-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Messiah of Might and Magic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/darkmessiahofmightmagic/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good death animations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Numerous crashes and glitches get in the way.
 minimal character building and progression.
 most of the game's combat is unsatisfying.
 storyline is almost completely transparent right off the bat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 26, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.5, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 4,521 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Arkane Studios
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Oct 24, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dark Messiah wraps a dull story around repetitive combat. It's not a bad game, but its technical 
 glitches really bring it down. 

  The Might and Magic universe dates all the way back to 1986. In those 20 years, we've seen plenty 
 of different games on plenty of different platforms, but most of them have fallen squarely into 
 the turn-based strategy or role-playing sectors. Dark Messiah of Might and Magic, from Ubisoft 
 and Arkane Studios, doesn't really fall into either of those categories. Like Arkane's previous 
 game, Arx Fatalis, this is a first-person game. But Dark Messiah of Might and Magic is extremely 
 light on the role-playing, instead focusing its energy on sword-swinging, magic-fireball-shooting 
 action. Unfortunately, the action gets repetitive quickly, and the game's often-transparent storyline 
 doesn't pick up any of the slack.  

          Sareth's journey puts him on a course to discover who he really is. But you'll figure that 
 out within the first hour or so.     

  Dark Messiah puts you in the boots of a guy named Sareth. Sareth's an orphan that's been working 
 as an apprentice under a wizard named Phenrig, and the game opens with a tutorial, where the wizard 
 tells you how to get around as you attempt to grab a large crystal with magical properties. After 
 learning the fine arts of sword fighting, rope climbing, and crate kicking, the wizard sends you 
 out into the world to bring the crystal to another wizard, who has some big plans for it. But you 
 don't go alone. Before you leave, the boss sticks you with a lady named Xana, who is some kind 
 of guardian creature who lives inside your head. This lets her act as the game's Cortana, speaking 
 to you frequently and acting as the game's "what should I do next?" device. The difference between 
 Xana and Cortana, though, is that Xana's quips are too frequent and immediately annoying. The storyline 
 unfolds almost immediately thanks to some specific details that are revealed in the manual and 
 opening pre-rendered video sequence about the prophecy that drives the entire story. It's odd that 
 a game could slip what amount to spoilers into the first 45 minutes of gameplay, but it's really 
 quite transparent, and it's very easy to see where this roughly 15-hour adventure is going. You're 
 given a couple of different choices later on in the game that will dictate which ending you'll 
 see, but they're all disappointingly unsatisfying.  

  At its core, Dark Messiah is an action game. There are enemies to deal with, and you can take them 
 out with a few different weapon types. Swords do the most damage, though daggers can be powerful 
 if you can sneak up behind enemies and backstab them. The staff isn't as powerful or as fast as 
 the sword, but it knocks enemies over, making it well suited for crowds, in theory. When using 
 a sword, you can also equip a shield, which lets you block arrows. If you want to reach out and 
 kill someone, the game has bows for your use, as well. You can also learn magic spells over the 
 course of the game, starting with the basics like telekinesis and flame arrow, which is a fire 
 spell that does very little damage. The later spells are more damaging and useful, but they don't 
 scale, so that useless flame arrow spell is always useless.  

  You learn spells and other skills by spending skill points, which are earned by completing objectives. 
 Skill points can be spent in three different categories, and some skills branch off of other skills, 
 so you'll have to increase your endurance before you can increase your attack power. There aren't 
 very many choices for character customization here, but you can try to specialize in magic, stealth, 
 strength, or some combination of the three. Considering that most of the spells in the game aren't 
 all that useful (heal is easily your best bet for most-used spell) and that stealth is never a 
 requirement, spending points to make your physical attacks stronger, while also spending points 
 to increase your mana reserves for frequent healing, feels like the best way to go. The game tosses 
 so many health and mana-restoring items at you that you probably don't have to go all out in that 
 direction, either.  

          You'll primarily fight guards, zombies, ghouls, and orcs on your quest to attain the Skull 
 of Shadows.     

  The combat in Dark Messiah is a little deeper than the average first-person shooter's melee attacks. 
 When wielding a weapon, you can tap the mouse button for fast, weak swipes. But you can also execute 
 power strikes by holding down the attack button and a movement direction. Each direction gives 
 you a slightly different-looking attack, but the real bonus is that the power strikes do more damage 
 and usually stagger blocking enemies. As you swing, an adrenaline meter charges up, and when it's 
 full, a power strike will instantly kill an enemy, complete with a few unique and gory death animations, 
 such as beheadings. But in many cases, attacking with your weapons or even your magic spells isn't 
 the quickest way to take care of business. The soldiers, orcs, ghouls, and other creatures you'll 
 face in the game really like to stand near large cliffs and spiked walls, or under rickety wooden 
 lofts filled with heavy barrels. You have a kick attack that is a little too good at kicking guys 
 off of cliffs or into those spiked walls, either of which is an instant kill. The lofts are usually 
 held up by shaky wooden planks, so a swipe of any weapon will crush their supports, sending the 
 barrels tumbling down onto your enemies and killing them. With all of these powerful options at 
 your disposal, fighting enemies in Dark Messiah feels more like a minor annoyance. In some spots, 
 it'll be more efficient to just run past groups of zombies, and since enemies don't drop useful 
 items or give you any sort of experience or skill points, you usually won't miss anything by doing 
 so. But you will occasionally stumble onto some larger enemies, like a big cyclops or a dragon. 
 Those fights can be a little more involved, but the artificial intelligence makes even these guys 
 relatively easy to best.     

  Sareth isn't the most acrobatic fellow, but you still have some moves that you can use to get around. 
 The game throws a few jumping puzzles at you, and in true first-person jumping-puzzle fashion, 
 they're pretty annoying. The game also gives you a rope bow, which lets you shoot arrows into wooden 
 planks on any ceiling to cause a climbable rope to drop. The physics on the ropes looks ugly, and 
 you can't swing on them, so the item is only useful in very specific situations, and Xana, the 
 lady who lives in your head, is all too quick to tell you when such a situation arises. All told, 
 the game's single-player has its moments but is often really repetitive. It's certainly not bad, 
 but the story never ropes you in, the combat isn't very satisfying, and you never get the feeling 
 that Sareth is growing more powerful as you play.  

          While the game does offer options for stealth and magic, brute force is the most direct 
 and seemingly effective approach.     

  In addition to the single-player action, there's a multiplayer side to Dark Messiah of Might and 
 Magic, and it's fairly different from the campaign. Here, you can choose from different character 
 classes and go into battle via a few different modes. Deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture 
 the flag all work as expected, though taking melee characters like warriors into game modes that 
 are primarily associated with first-person shooters is a little weird. The crusade mode provides 
 a bit more depth. This is a humans versus undead mode that uses respawn tickets and control points, 
 similar to something like EA's Battlefield games. The game's five multiplayer maps are connected 
 in crusade, so if you win a map, you move one map closer to the opposing team's home base. You 
 also gain experience points and levels in this mode, and each time you level up, you can assign 
 skill points to enhance your abilities. You can switch classes each time you spawn, so if you're 
 tired of clanging swords as a warrior, you can switch to a more projectile-based character, like 
 a mage or an archer. Priestesses can heal and resurrect players, and the assassin acts as a stealth 
 character. Experience points carry over from one map to the next, provided you stay connected to 
 the same server.  

  The big problem with the multiplayer is that you never get a good sense of impact when fighting. 
 When two warriors are going at it, you often don't hear swords striking each other, and the best 
 way to tell if you've scored a hit or been hit yourself is to look at a status box in the lower-left 
 corner, which updates with how much damage you're taking or inflicting. There are some interesting 
 ideas here, but multiplayer melee combat from a first-person perspective isn't much fun, and even 
 the more projectile-based classes aren't very interesting to play. It may offer a different setting 
 than the typical first-person multiplayer, but this game isn't likely to become your multiplayer 
 game of choice any time soon.  

  Graphically, Dark Messiah of Might and Magic scales pretty well, looking good at lower resolutions 
 and looking much better if you've got a stout machine that can handle the load of the Source engine. 
 Much of the game is dark, and you're running through the same sorts of areas from start to finish, 
 so there isn't really too much to look at along the way. That same Source engine provides plenty 
 of realistic-seeming physics, though this often looks a little odd. Executing enemies with powerful 
 sword slashes sends them hurtling to the ground with appropriate force. But then you'll bump into 
 benches and see them move around or drop scrolls on the ground and hear them rattle around infinitely 
 as they roll in place, and the effect is ruined. The game has a decent amount of blood in it, which 
 will awkwardly turn your entire sword red after a few fights and stain spots on the ground. The 
 soundtrack is typical for a fantasy game and does the job, and most of the sound effects are pretty 
 good. The ambient sound is probably the best part of the game, as it always sounds appropriately 
 creepy, whether you're running through a spider's lair or a sewer tunnel. The voices behind the 
 game's characters aren't very good. The main-story characters often deliver lines a little too 
 flatly, and Xana is, again, way overboard to the point of annoyance. Also, individual enemies repeat 
 lines too frequently. Standard guards like to say "hey, paaaaal" when they spot you.  

          Later in the game, you're given a special new ability that we won't spoil here. Instead, 
 we'll just tell you that it's not very useful at all.     

  We tested Dark Messiah of Might and Magic on multiple machines and found it to have technical issues 
 across the board. At one point in the game, you lose your entire inventory and have to use a specific 
 new technique to fight a few enemies before getting your gear back. If you attempt to pick up a 
 sword dropped by one of those foes, the game crashes. We also had it quit out to desktop without 
 warning on numerous occasions. Thankfully, the game's autosave is frequent enough to never require 
 much backtracking and manual saving is also present. On the multiplayer side, the game loads up 
 as a separate executable, and uses Steam for key authentication and auto-updates, and all of that 
 seems to work just fine. But we ran into numerous spots where the game would lock up when attempting 
 to load the next map. Considering crusade mode is best when you stay connected to one server for 
 a long period, this is especially frustrating.  

  Aside from its technical issues, there's nothing extremely wrong with Dark Messiah of Might and 
 Magic. But beyond it being a fantasy-themed first-person action game (which is something of a rarity 
 these days) , the game doesn't really do much to make its campaign stand out. You could certainly 
 do worse than Dark Messiah, but you could probably do a lot better, also.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (343 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great visuals and voice acting, decent story, fun deep combat, lots of upgrades to get, 
 tons of items to use
  
  The Bad: Little in variety of enemy types, very linear, combat is tedious after awhile, semi-poor 
 level design, HL2 engine is starting to look old
  
  Before I start here Dark Messiah suffered bad reviews because of all the terrible bugs that launched 
 with the game. now that 2 1/2 years have passed Dark Messiah's bugs have been pretty much been 
 ironed out and you now have a pretty fun action RPG. Before I start explaining the game DM uses 
 the Half-Life 2 engine so you can expect some wonderful graphics and effects. DM uses the HL2 engine 
 very well, but the engine is a bit supped up so you'll need a fairly beefy rig to run this game. 
 If you computer was being pushed with HL2 then your computer will have a hard time running this 
 game. I also have to mention that DM felt a lot like Oblivion Lite in the sense that it is set 
 in Medieval times, melee combat is first person, and the art style is a little like Oblivion (not 
 as unique of course) . 
  
  You play as a young protagonist named Sareth and you must stop the evil Arantir from using the 
 Skull Crystal and bringing the Dark Messiah back to life. You have a choice to either stop him 
 yourself or let the Dark Messiah live on. The story is actually fairly interesting and will keep 
 you on the edge throughout this 15-20 hour adventure. Now DM is a linear RPG (it's not free roaming 
 like Oblivion) , but makes up for it with a intricate combat system. You have about 30-40 different 
 item slots and you can carry things from health, mana, weapons, magic etc. As you progress through 
 the game you will earn skill points for completing objectives and you can upgrade a variety of 
 things from endurance, health, stealth, archery skill, learn new skills such as heal, fire arrow, 
 freeze, sanctuary etc. There's a lot to learn and you won't upgrade 100% in a play through. You 
 can either concentrate on being a Knight, Mage, or Archer or just go down the middle. 
  
  There are a variety of unique weapons you can pick up throughout the adventure such as the awesome 
 rope bow (shoot an arrow at any wood overhanging and a rope will come down) , ice staffs, flame 
 swords, poison daggers, and even a cool electricity shield that stuns enemies when they attack 
 you. Now there are no shops where you can buy things so everything has to be picked up throughout 
 the world. This keeps the action constantly going, but will disappoint people who are used to having 
 stores in their RPGs. 
  
  Combat consists of left clicking for your basic attack, but if you hold it down you do a Power 
 Strike and whether or not you strafe, move forward, or backward will determine whether it's a side 
 swipe, impale, or overhead strike. This can let you easily dodge attack and quickly strike back. 
 You can use the right mouse button to block (and when you get the ability) left clicking to knock 
 enemies back. Hit enough bad guys and you'll get your adrenaline bar up and this results in a gory 
 slow-mo instant kill. This applies to all weapons and each of them have their own unique advantages 
 to them. You have a kick button and this is great when you are on a ledge so you can just kick 
 them off. Every so often you'll find spike beds on walls you can impale enemies on, also you'll 
 find traps that can be kicked down to crush enemies. 
  
  While the combat is really fun and you can do a lot with it; it will get repetitive after about 
 half way through unless you use different weapons and toss things up. Every so often you'll find 
 a blacksmith room where you can add bars of metal and forge your own weapons. Now when it comes 
 to enemies there aren't to many of them (knights, undead, spiders, necromancers, evil demons) and 
 that's about it. They are mixed up a lot, but you still can get bored of them after awhile. 
  
  Every so often, though, you will get a great boss fight and these are huge creatures that require 
 key items in the environment to kill them. These are pretty awesome and are very satisfying to 
 take down. My biggest complaint must be the level design. A lot of times you won't find most of 
 the hidden secret areas since they aren't even in places you'd remotely think they'd be in. There 
 will be times you'll wonder around for over 30 minutes in the same place wondering where to go 
 and this has to do with poor level design. The levels are very linear, most of the time dark, and 
 really hard to navigate. Other than this Dark Messiah is a pretty good game, and you can even get 
 it off Steam for $10! I highly recommend Dark Messiah to any action RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robrob12345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 3:42 am PT
Review:  It is a bargain bin game which rewards just a small amount of patience to get your head around 
 the combat - say 30mins play time then you can bowl through an immersive adaptive game with lots 
 of plus's.
  
  The story is good enough in my book and it's on the Valve engine so the graphics can't be so bad 
 - oh and there are some fun physics to try when fighting (like burning stuff) .
  
  There are so many awful games out there how can this be a 6.7! Man that ain't right.
  
  One 
 of my favourite features would be the bow (which fires rope) so you can climb all over he shop 
 - arg... Zombies, get up high and pick em off... cool.
  
  I played through several times - the good man and then the obligatory bad man stuff! Twas ace. 
 Don't think the story deserves quite the slating it got - it doesn't match the best but towers 
 above many.
  
  
  Nope 6.7 it is not - such a score is truly a travesty... 8 is fair possibly higher if it had lasted 
 longer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:12 am PT
Review:  For those who thought this is along the series of Might and Magic, well, you may be a little put-off. 
 It does have a little hint of RPG elements, in terms of the scarcely distributed skill points which 
 are used to unlock somewhat cool abilities, but mainly it plays like an FPS, with swords and bows. 
 Actually it's a great action game and for those who remembered and liked Crusaders of Might and 
 Magic, you're in for a surprise treat.
  
  The mixture of stealth, melee, sniping and magic is very well-balanced in this straightforward 
 game with some curiously fun environmental puzzles to play with. With a survival style gameplay, 
 kicking people off cliffs felt strangely rewarding sometimes, which is a cool feature here. Some 
 levels are impressive and intense to play, like the worm scene and paokai parts, while most of 
 the pathfinding and action are solid, with a bit of hidden areas to discover and occasional butts 
 to kick.
  
  The music is fantastic with a full orchestra to bolster. Sword swishes and staff whooshes sounds 
 good all the way. Character mocap animations look very nice, especially Leanna, who has some subtly 
 charming movements. Well, in any case, if you're going to try it, it will be a buggy nightmare 
 without the patch, so be warned.
  
  KingLim
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2009 1:49 pm PT
Review:  hmmm... what could I say except.... astouneshing graphics, great gameplay, nice game in conclusion.
 
  I love the idea of the story, but they could have worked a little bit on the character's skill 
 development, but still, u can choose from assasin, warrior, mage and archer, if u know how to combine 
 and use the skill tree and skill points.
  more than that, i really like the forge idea, where u can forge u're own weapons, that's if u find 
 the metal needed to create weapons (unfortunately u can only forge swords, and that is a bit borring 
 and repetitive) , they could have used more smelting patterns but I don't dislike the idea.
  overal great game, I recomend it to all the rpg-adventure lovers out there, and I also recomend 
 that u have a strong pc so that u can play it with all the details maxed or u will lose some of 
 the greates effects and graphics the game can offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korlor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 6:14 am PT
Review:  This game is so much fun to be honest it is the best game i played when it comes to gameplay it 
 is so much fun especially kicking enemies off the roof or to spikes. Swordplay is simply awesome 
 too at first the game was hard as hell but when u get used to it there is no game that is this 
 much fun! As it come the graphics is still think they look very nice apart from some old looking 
 textures i never tried the multiplayer on this game so i can't say anything about it only bad thing 
 is that the game is so damn short and some skills indeed are pretty useless. Overall this game 
 is one of the best maybe even the best game i ever played in my life! I think whoever reads this 
 reviews should go asap nearest gamestore and buy the damn game don't believe the bad reviews!!!
 
  
  Final verdict
  Graphics: 9
  Gameplay: 10
  Story: 7
  Level design: 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superman_legend
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 3:52 am PT
Review:  This game like I said is pretty amazing so far. Great graphics, decent story and humorous at the 
 same time. And the gameplay is nothing short of fun wish oblivion had this combat. Ok please recommend 
 this review. You need to download Steam on your computer if you dont have which most games go through 
 to play online like counter strike, half life, nba2k9, etc. Download it from here http://store. steampowered. com/app/12210/. 
 I am a serious gamer if a game is junk im say its junk. THis so far very fun and simple good times. 
 Its even more amazing when I only paid $4 bucks for it and got it digitally. I think its worth 
 atleast $10 bucks or more but $4 bucks that less then a rental to own this fun game. I found a 
 place where u get the product key to activate through steam where u can get the game forever and 
 download it through Steam and play. THis is the link http://myworld. ebay. com/ihaveatoopee dont 
 how long he will sell this but hurry and enjoy its worth it by far. Please recommend so people 
 will see this. Btw I really bought this game im not selling this dont even know the guy. Just doing 
 it to save ppl money and get more ppl to enjoy this game. I use the name superman_legendary everywhere 
 even ebay. So enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  -you'll see various environments
  -good visuals (for a 3 years old game)
  -valve engine (nice physic)
  -Fatalities
  -you can choose how you want to play (melee, assassin, 
 mage, archer, a mix of everything.)
  -vast inventory (blades, bows, shields, staffs..... etc)
  -cool spells
  -upgradable combat abilities, 
 magic powers, skills.
  -you'll fight knights, orcs, goblins, zombies, dragons, sorcerers, ogres.. etc.
  and the best 
 of all: the combat system. You can use your environment to kill enemies, use magic, kick people 
 of ledges, combine magic attacks with weapons attacks... etc.... each combat can be a different experience.
 
  
  Cons:
  
  -story is not really interesting
  -some glitches here and there
  -weird physic moments at times
  -near the end, it gets a bit repetitive
  
  I did not try 
 the multiplayer because i'm pretty sure it's dead by now
  
  Overall, this title is worth playing if you like this type of gameplay. The only big problem is 
 that it's the kind of game you'll play once and never touch again. But at the price it is available 
 now (10-20 $) you can go wrong.
  
  My specs:
  
  P4 HT 3,4 ghz
  Ati radeon X850XT PE
  sound blaster audigy 2 ZS
  2 gig RAM
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ceadre
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:35 pm PT
Review:  The "Dark Messiah" addition to the "Might and Magic" series is great. The storyline is good, yet 
 sometimes a bit cliche or cheesy. The music always fits the atmosphere and usually brings a feeling 
 of almost being there to the game... It has a quite a few bugs, though. 
  
  Coming from a gamer that has an NVIDIA GeForce 9400 GT, there were a lot of glitchy parts that 
 caused the question if the card was failing, finding even more bugs later cleared that question 
 with a "No." There are many parts where traps don't work correctly, sound and video are severely 
 lagging, and items bounced around like a rubber ball. I'm very disappointed that neither ARKANE 
 and/or UBISOFT never even attempted to make a patch to fix it, and didn't bother fixing the bugs/glitches 
 before releasing it on 360 two years later.
  
  I won't completely obliterate its score just because of the glitches. I give it a 7.0 for it's 
 storyline and indirect choice of class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geodammajestic
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  I liked this game a lot. Although it's simple & short ( and a bit buggy but not so much as i expected) , 
 this one is a great adventure with plenty of action, a lot of fun and some classic RPG elements. 
 Many other much deeper games, sometimes let me out of them. Sometimes I need just to play and not 
 to be lost in thousand menus. Dark Messiah's straight action made me to remember it when i was away 
 of my PC. And that is for me the most imporatnt thing in a game. To make me want it to play!!! Dark 
 Messiah is one of those games!!!
  The grapics are quite good, the characters you meet are great and classic RPG guys. The sound is 
 also quite good. I found also some lovely and weird weapons... ( A rope bow?? what else shall i see...)
 
  The only thing left for me to say is that I would be very happy with some news about a sequel!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobraman007
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  If you are a true gamer, you are always looking for new and unique experiences. This Might and 
 Magic title will give you a great experience. 
  
  I've been a fan of FPS (First Person Shooters) for years, and have also been a fan of fantasy games 
 like Diablo as well. This game is for everyone who enjoys both. Having a fantasy game like this 
 in first person mode brings a larger and more exciting feel to the adventure. In this game you'll 
 fight Orcs, Mages, Goblins, Dragons, and more. The world is immersive and great fun. Don't watch 
 Barbarian movies when you can be the star of one.
  
  
  POSITIVES:
  
  *Beautiful and stunning graphics (if you have a 256MB video card or better)
  
  *Save the game 
 anywhere you want- without worrying about starting over from checkpoints. 
  
  *Enter a fantasy world in full screen and first person visibility. Combat is more realistic and 
 puts the gamer directly into the action. 
  
  *Game is broken down into exciting adventures and twists.
  
  *Super fun physics that allow 
 you to throw rocks and objects at your enemies; kick them off high cliffs and staircases; fires 
 and spikes to kick your enemies into; ambushes where you can break boulder traps or shoot them 
 with your enemies to crush them. The options are almost unlimited in how you can kill and damage 
 your opponents.
  
  *Well designed levels that gradually give you more and more weapons. Ammo such as arrows are easily 
 found throughout. There are also a lot of secret areas to explore and find treasures in.
  
  *Use skill points to enhance your power as a Warrior, Magician, or Assassin. 
  
  *An easy interface 
 for organizing your inventory and setting hot keys for quick access. Also, provides complete details 
 and requirements of all your items when you place your mouse over an item. 
  
  *Great sound, music, and dialogue. 
  
  
  
  NEGATIVES:
  
  *The story is acceptable, 
 but not remarkable. The ending and cut scenes seem to be incomplete. 
  
  *The enemies sometimes are too easy, and the Artificial Intelligence isn't always so intelligent. 
 For example, it's easy to run from enemies and hide around corners- they forget you were just there. 
 
  
  *I could never get the Multiplayer to work- it would continuosly crash on me. 
  
  *A few crashes happened in the single player mode- not as many as Gamespot stated, but a few (about 
 7 times out of 60 hours of total playing) . 
  
  *Not setup for replay over and over again- but what game really is?
  
  
  TRICKS:
  
  *Be 
 observant of your surroundings; you can find traps to knock over boulders, barrels, and more things 
 to kill your enemies.
  
  *Use the rope bow anywhere you see wood planks above. You can climb adn access many secret places 
 and items this way.
  
  *Save your game often in case of crashes and after loading screens. 
  
  *Shoot enemies with 
 your bow from afar or above. Always aim for the head for more damage. 
  
  *Some switches are hard to find- use Gamespot's Game Guide through the tough areas. You can also 
 see walkthrough videos on YouTube.
  
  *As with all shooters, you can drag and drop weapons if your inventory is full (while you walk) .
 
  
  
  SUMMARY:
  
  I highly recommend this game for all serious and open minded world challengers. There's not many 
 fantasy games that are first person like this. If you like Morrowind Elder Scrolls, Thief, and 
 other similar games, this will be one of your favorites.
  
  Since we are almost in 2009, and the game was released in 2006, you should be able to find this 
 game for a bargain. If you don't choose this adventure, someone else will get the hot chick at 
 the end of it. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: malavos
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  (I'm not good at english - don't blame me.)
  
  Okay, look, i'm a serious fan of might and magic. I have both Heroes of might and magic III and 
 IV, and they rocks. 3DO build then. And that was fantastic. Even today i play then. Then comes 
 Ubisoft - and made Heroes V. Well, it was good. I thought it was like cruzaders of M&M or Legends 
 of M&M ( i have both) . Well, i didn't like what i saw ( and played) . The problem is: The game is 
 not in the world of might and magic. The game simply use a little piece of magic from the series, 
 and some creatures. The story of the game is so confusing and frustating. Some thing are cool, 
 rocks. The multiplayer is nice. But it leaks much on single - you can make nice battles, and nice 
 magics - but you can't like level up your char like a tanker, or like a pure assasin - you cannot 
 evade or block some attacks, no way what you do. Even the magic - it comes with not many magics, 
 it's like the old style games - there is an race - and it's weak against an element - let's give 
 an example - like spiders, they're weak against fire. If you don't have fire ball, or an weapon 
 of fire - you're simply gonna lose a lot of hp and die later on.
  
  The game got some nice things: A little story-telling. You can make important decisions in the 
 middle of your adventures - like choosing being evil, bad, neutral, good, and lawful. Well, that 
 was sure cool. But look: If you played heroes, cruzaders and legends, you will definetly be disappointed 
 with what you will see.
  
  I give it a 8, because of the story telling and some combat, and the sounds and graphics was nice. 
 But definetly, the story board was so frustating. A 8 and nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neillh
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah Of Might And Magic is an exciting blend of first person shooter and RPG, and contains 
 some of the most brutally engaging combat you will find in any game.
  
  You are Sareth, A young apprentice to the mage Phenrig who enlists you help on an epic quest to 
 retrieve the skull of shadows before it falls into the hands of evil.
  
  You will not be alone on your travels as you are accompanied by not one, but two lovely ladies! 
 No time for romance however as the action comes thick and fast and you're plunged in at the deep 
 end right from the start.
  
  Thanks to decent AI, combat is both thrilling and grueling but there is something particularly 
 satisfying about slicing off the head of an Orc after a tough bout!
  
  As your adventure continues you acquire skill points which allow you to choose your combat specialism, 
 whether it's the way of the warrior and hacking and butchering your enemies , or taking a more 
 more stealthy approach to dispatching your various foes, or you can concentrate on magic and roast 
 or shrink the villians as the mood takes you.
  
  There's a lot to be said for having a variety of skills as you will be matched against giant spiders, 
 goblins orcs, and the terrifying cyclops.
  
  One of the best things about Dark Messiah is the immersive atmosphere, you really feel that the 
 quest matters as you explore catacombs, an orc invested island and mountain passes on your journey.
 
  
  There's also a nice little twist midway through as you discover more of your true origins... 
 
  
  Graphically the games is excellent, all the visuals and the music contribute to the whole experience, 
 load times can be slowish but that's a minor fault for all the excitement you will experience.
 
  
  Highly recommended. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joaovpo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is rather good, it's linear, and the first time you play it will be a bit hard to get 
 going, but after you done your first the time, all the other ones will be very enjoyable, because 
 you will know where to go, and you will know the fun things to do, you will decapitate orcs, fall 
 on traps, destroy cyclops, kick people and make them fall, be a mage, an assasin, or a warrior, 
 it's a fun game, you will finish it more than once because it's fun, the ending is pretty bad, 
 but what matters is the fights, which are fun, if you like swords and sorcery, you will like this.
 
  
  If you want to become an assasin and hide in the shadows, then backstab your enemies, you can, 
 if you want to use highly destructive spells, you can, if you just want to smash your way to your 
 objective cutting arms and legs and heads you can, it is a nice combat with some nice violence 
 if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  The Might & Magic game series has a long and varied history and dates back to the first Might & 
 Magic role-playing game released in 1986 by the now-defunct 3D0. A further eight titles in the 
 main series followed, culminating in 2002's Might & Magic IX. A fair number of spin-offs and related 
 games have also been released by 3D0 themselves and latterly Ubisoft, most notably the long-running 
 Heroes of Might & Magic turn-based strategy series, a brace of action-adventure console games with 
 Crusaders and Warriors of Might & Magic, a fantasy shooter titled Legends of Might & Magic and 
 most recently another first-person fantasy action fest with this, Dark Messiah of Might & Magic.
 
  
  The play style of Dark Messiah is very much focused on pure action. From a first-person viewpoint, 
 you trek around towns and dungeons, caves and crypts, swinging swords, firing arrows and slinging 
 spells at wave after wave of monstrous foes. The controls are fairly intuitive and simple: clicking 
 the mouse causes you to attack with your current weapon. Holding the mouse button causes more powerful 
 attacks and depending on your movements you can carry out some pretty impressive swordplay: slashing, 
 thrusting, disembowelling, decapitating. Spells and arrows are even simpler: aim and fire, which 
 means that almost anyone can play without having to worry about overly complex keyboard layouts 
 or remembering complex key combinations.
  
  The simplicity of the gameplay belies its difficulty. After a sedate, pedestrian tutorial  complete 
 with hand-holding  you are immediately dumped in the middle of a battle with no weapons and practically 
 no chance of survival. So run away and live to fight another day. Real fights come soon enough, 
 and it soon becomes apparent that mastering the superficially simple controls is key, along with 
 quick reflexes and quicker thinking. Many of the opponents you face are skilled, tough or both 
 and require more than just hacking away and hoping for the best. Thankfully you can use much more 
 than your own resources in most fights. The environment can be a weapon itself, with cunningly 
 placed beams, barrels, boxes, chains, rocks, statues, spikes, fires and much more all poised and 
 ready to crush, trip, impale or set your foe aflame. It's fun, to be sure, however it highlights 
 a lacking area of Dark Messiah  the enemy AI. Simply put, your opponents are the dumbest creations 
 I've seen in a game for a long time. Each one will rush at you; no teamwork, no tactics, no sense 
 of self-preservation. Hanging around waiting for the player to kick them into a set of spikes or 
 onto a campfire is hardly survival of the fittest material.
  
  Even with the non-existent AI and the painstakingly staged potential enemy death-traps of your 
 environments, Dark Messiah is still a difficult game. It's also one which the designers have overcompensated 
 for by showering the player with so many healing items that the game is quickly in danger of becoming 
 a sort of poor man's Diablo in first-person, with one finger poised over the attack button and 
 the other frantically mashing the potion button. To some it may not be a flaw, merely a means for 
 a less-skilled player to progress (and don't get me wrong, I probably fall into this category) , 
 but to me it just feels cheap.
  
  For a game billed as an action-RPG the role-playing elements are minimal. Jumping onto the "Now 
 with added RPG elements!" bandwagon, this side of the game consists solely of putting skill points 
 into a small selection of skills which determine whether your gameplay style will focus on magic, 
 stealth or brutal melee. Skill points are not gained by defeating enemies, rather they are acquired 
 by completing tasks and objectives as you move through the game. The total number of skill points 
 you have to play with is very small so there is no chance of creating a super-powered all-round 
 character, meaning you have to choose your focus carefully. I would say there aren't quite enough 
 skill points to go around, and likely even a dedicated warrior, assassin or magician will be lacking 
 in some area of their own discipline.
  
  I have talked about the brutal, single-minded action gameplay, but surely for a game to carry the 
 Might & Magic name the story must play a big part, correct? Well, no. The story is generic at best 
 and insultingly pathetic at worst. A cobbled-together excuse for the player to go and hack monster's 
 heads off in a series of environments, with some nonsense about a rare artefact that needs retrieving, 
 a Demon Sovereign that needs dealing with and a Surprise Twist that is pretty obvious to anyone 
 with one eye and one ear open from the outset.
  
  The multi-player part of the game is a surprisingly different experience. Although the basics of 
 gameplay remain the same, this part was developed by a different studio and it shows. The main 
 mode is basically a team-based strategic battle across a chosen map, where each team gains points 
 by successfully attacking the enemy. There are two enemy factions  humans and undead. The skill-gaining 
 elements of the main game are also present in multi-player; however at the start of play the player 
 must select a character class and may only assign skill points to particular class skills. It's 
 not altogether an overly fantastic way to spend your time, but there are worse ways.
  
  For a game that relies on slick gameplay and as much blood flying around as possible, Dark Messiah 
 still only manages to make a half-hearted attempt in the graphics department. The game is powered 
 by the Half-Life 2 Source Engine, which allows for all the fancy destructible scenery, physics 
 a go-go and flying heads necessary. However, despite being released a whole two years after Half-Life 
 2 it somehow manages to look about ten times as ugly. Textures are dull and flat, environments 
 are boring once breaking things gets old, and character models are bland. It just seems like the 
 designers couldn't be bothered. It's a shame since we know what the engine is capable of. Having 
 said all that well, it has nice water. And, uh that's all I've got.
  
  Sound isn't much better, though at least there are fewer shining pinnacles of great game sound 
 for Dark Messiah to live up to. It's generic, which seems to be a bit of a keyword for this game, 
 but at least it's not offensively bad. The music is blandly listenable, the voice acting is mostly 
 forgettable and the sound effects are repetitive yet easily tuned out. There's not much to say, 
 really.
  
  At the end of the day, Dark Messiah shows a great deal of promise and it is a fun game to while 
 away a few hours. There are just too many flaws  admittedly mostly minor but ones that cannot 
 be overlooked  that along with a focus on style over substance drag it down into the land of the 
 average. It's not bad, it's just not great. Find it cheap enough and you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RK-Mara
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 7:05 am PT
Review:  In 2003 Might and Magic's original developer New World Computing went bankrupt alongside its owner 
 3DO. Fortunate for gamers and long-time fans of the series Ubisoft bought the rights for Might 
 and Magic and three years after 3DO's bankruptcy, Arkane Studios and Ubisoft released Dark Messiah, 
 a very action oriented take on the series. Now two years after the initial release, how does the 
 game hold up by today's standards?
  
  Unlike the name suggests, Dark Messiah of Might and Magic is not a RPG. The game offers few RPG 
 elements including character development and even a couple choices but the game is still a fantasy 
 themed shooter at heart. M&M has had several spin-off series over the years, the most famous being 
 the turn-based strategy Heroes of Might and Magic but also some less known ones, and Dark Messiah 
 could be counted as the newest addition to these spin-offs.
  
  What really separates Dark Messiah from other Might and Magics is the Valve's Source engine it 
 utilizes. Now four years after the release of Half-Life 2, both the engine and the graphics are 
 starting to show their age and while still scaling quite well, Dark Messiah is a bigger system 
 hog than most other Source games. Though Dark Messiah can still look very pretty, especially in 
 combat.
  
  Evil villain? Check. Love affair? Check. Nasty enemies swarming at you from every angle? Check. 
 The story is the usual B-cIass fare we've learned to live with in most games. You are the apprentice 
 of the powerful wizard Phenrig and soon after the short tutorial level, you are sent to help your 
 master's wizard friend to obtain the Skull of Shadows. As your guide, a demonic spirit Xana is 
 implemented into your head. Many players may find her optimistic and hot 'n dirty attitude irritating 
 sooner or later. Thankfully, you'll have the option to get rid of her later in the game. Unsurprisingly, 
 things don't go as planned and before you notice, you'll find yourself in a castle siege with mayhem 
 everywhere. Read through the manual and you can guess the rest. After dozens of World War 2 and 
 sci-fi shooters, fantasy-theme is strangely refreshing in the shooter genre. 
  
  We've seen direction and power attacks before but what really sets the combat in Dark Messiah apart 
 from other games is the excellent use of Source physics engine. Thanks to it, melee combat is actually 
 fun and rewarding, and the gory death animations are always a joy to watch. Also, the game brings 
 back something that disappeared after the massive popularity of Gordon Freeman; you can actually 
 see your body. And your legs aren't just visible - they also work. With a button press you can 
 kick your enemies to fire, down the stairs and off ledges. All this may feel a bit overpowered 
 at first but cranking up the difficulty does wonders. The melee combat in Dark Messiah is arguably 
 the finest in any game.
  
  The game has altogether four alternate endings. That's four times more than linear shooters usually 
 have. But that's not the only place where the roleplaying elements kick in. Through the game, you 
 can choose attributes from four different talent trees. You can either focus on being an assassin, 
 wizard, warrior or archer, or divide your experience on two different trees. You could be a jack 
 of all trades if you wanted, but fortunately unlike in Oblivion, it makes you a major weakling.
 
  
  Both the score and sound effects are good, whereas voice acting is average at best. What is lost 
 with the voice acting is gained back with the great ambient sounds making every area more or less 
 creepy. All in all, the audio gets the job done without hurting the immersion.
  
  Most of the major technical problems and bugs that haunted the release version have been fixed 
 by now and it's been almost a year since the last patch so this is as good as it gets. There are 
 still few crashes on some systems but they are not game breaking anymore.
  
  While the singleplayer is developed by Arkane, the multiplayer side is Kuju's handiwork. You'll 
 find the normal deathmatch and capture the flag game modes but only the crusade mode that resembles 
 Battlefield's conquest mode is even mildly interesting. All the four singleplayer classes are in 
 multiplayer too but the attributes are pre-determined. It can also be mildly annoying to join the 
 game midway through the round when everyone already has a wide range of special attacks and you 
 struggle to gain even few kills. The sometimes horrid performance in singleplayer gets even worse 
 in multiplayer with several mages casting massive fireballs at the same time. Though if you have 
 an up-to-date system with a DirectX10 card and a dual core processor, the performance won't be 
 a problem in either.
  
  The first playthrough takes a good 15 hours which is more than enough for a shooter. And with the 
 four different play styles and endings, it's definitely worth playing through the game again. While 
 the multiplayer is fun for only couple evenings at max, the fun singleplayer is easily worth the 
 ten to twenty dollars the game currently costs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah keeps you heavily involved with combat from start to finish. A big part of the reason 
 why the combat works so well in Dark Messiah is the level design, whether it's traps, ledges over 
 cliffs or fires scattered through combat areas they play a very important role in combat. In some 
 sections you might have a hard time getting through without using these environmental factors in 
 your combat, and if you use them well you will feel powerful and dispose of enemies quickly.
  
  So in many ways rather than just thinking about combat, you are thinking about where the combat 
 is/will be taking place. Maybe you'll dodge an attack by moving right, quickly spin around, kick 
 a turned opponent in the back and listen to him scream as he soars off the cliff to oblivion. You 
 can use existing traps, like metal spikes and a pressure plate as a means to lure enemy zombies 
 into a death trap. What's probably more important is that the game lets you choose how to play, 
 you can assign points to different areas of your skill set, like strength, magic (and the spells) , 
 archery, all helping you with current weapons and letting you use the more advanced ones you may 
 find. You can choose to become jack of all trades to have a solution to most situations, or focus 
 on only a few.
  
  This game is not like oblivion, you don't kill a monster for random loot, it's a linear story with 
 items placed throughout the levels in order for you to get decent improvements without waiting 
 for a number to come up in the code. There are also hidden areas, some with more advanced weaponry, 
 others with good items like health and many potions but there is no money in this game, nothing 
 to buy. The game follows a limited branching story, some with optional objectives but in a few 
 parts you will be left to choose how things play out, and where your allegiances lie. There are 
 also numerous ways to approach areas and in particular using traps to your advantage that can change 
 from battle to battle. 
  
  Most of the game you will have a voice in your head that is wonderfully performed, this voice will 
 coach you in some areas if you are stuck and just make general chit chat to keep things fresh and 
 humorous, but it would have been even better with more and more helpful at some points. You will 
 be fighting in many locations of which can appear very massive, some at first glance may appear 
 unscaleable. Rope arrows will help you ascend, attaching to wooden objects, and some sections will 
 require this skill. 
  
  You have some great spells at your disposal like charm, which turns an enemy to your side for a 
 short period of time, handy at weakening groups before attacking. There are a few boss type battles, 
 but are seamlessly integrated that you won't feel like they are bosses. You can perform critical 
 hits which instant kill enemies, usually with a nice slow motion animation effect. Unfortunately 
 the game does get a bit clumsy when equipping different loadouts mid battle, sometimes costing 
 you your life. The ending is disappointingly let down by a short cutscene but overall the game 
 remains interesting throughout.
  
  Dark Messiah got some mixed reviews at launch; it did not score that well overall due mainly to 
 how buggy it was. Now however with the patch and a good PC the game is very enjoyable and worth 
 playing unless you dislike spiders, in which case you should avoid at all costs. If you think about 
 a good fantasy combat game that uses traps in the levels to enhance the fights, you will find few 
 better than Dark Messiah.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmoney80036
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok so we all know that DMMAM has glitches bugs and crashes but to add on to that you need a good 
 computer 
  
  Ok so heres the bad: big glitches, crashes, bugs, you need a good pc just to make it go at a decent 
 speed, the combat system is a bit boring, and to top it all off the items are really hard to find
 
  
  
  The good: multiplayer is awesome, you can cheat to get skill poins, god etc... (i don't know why people 
 say its hard just cheat!) , good weapon choice, its fun to be different classes wizards can freeze 
 people fighters can disarm people and assasins can backstab and throw knives at enemies, when you 
 order from steam you can see that they have fixed most bugs and updated alot of things like servers 
 and others problems, if you have a good pc like me which is a compaq laptop and has a geforce go 
 6100 128 mb ram you get a little lag and alot at some places but it makes up for itself by the 
 skills and multiplayer if you want to contact me email me at ktertzag@yahoo. com
  
  this is a upgrade to runescape lol just without all the people RENT IT FIRST!!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcplotts
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  I suppose this game would be more likable if you could just get used to dying every 15 seconds 
 or so while you map out the terrain you need to run around in, and, on the 10th try or so, finally 
 find the chain you're supposed to hump up to the next level.
  
  Let's face it: this is a medieval Prince of Persia, a game as interesting as watching paint dry 
 and as frustrating as dealing with the IRS. If I kicked someone one more time I swear I'd feel 
 like a can-can girl in Paris. They shoulda called this game "Chorus Girl in Leather".
  
  Kick attack is nice in the moments where you can get it lined up just right, which I didn't do 
 too well when ganged up by 3 minions.
  
  Beginning spells are shameful. They would have been better off giving Sareth a couple of gallons 
 of gas and a lighter. 
  
  There is no stealth at all, so pretty much anyone can hear or see you coming, so you might as well 
 just charge in there and get hacked.
  
  Healing gets increasingly hard as you get through the early chapters, and you don't get to take 
 naps to regenerate. 
  
  The bow is also worthless early as it does little damage and the AI enemies close on you before 
 you can start transitioning into swordplay. 
  It's hard to gauge the amount of damage you're doing in order to better define your attack tactics. 
 I just swing until something goes "ugh" and drops. 
  
  Okay, I think I've now typed enough to get this thing posted. 
  
  NWO games, I miss you. RIP, 
 Might and Magic. It was a nice ride over the years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ah_5700
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  With extremely fun single-player and multi-player, Dark Messiah is truly an amazing game. Beneath 
 all the complaining and griping, the core of the game is rock solid. In fact, most of the complaints 
 about Dark Messiah are not the fault of the game as much as the fault of the reviewers.
  ________________________
  1) Much of the criticism of the game deals with its predictable plot 
 and mediocre skill-progression. For instance, I'll admit, DM's skill-progression feature is not 
 perfect far from it. But at least it HAS skill progression a feature that most other action games 
 lack. Better a mediocre skill-progression than none at all
  
  So, while these claims are true, I must ask: Why would you expect these things? Dark Messiah is 
 an ACTION GAME! You do not play action games for their amazing plots and skill-progression  you 
 play them for their great action!
  ________________________
  2) Other complaints include below average graphics and many glitches/bugs. Personally, I think 
 DM is fantastic looking! Now it's no Crysis, but on highest settings at a decent resolution, Dark 
 Messiah is on-par with (and at times outstrips) many next-gen games (Battlefield 2142, Oblivion, 
 etc.) At absolutely max settings, it will give Gears of War a run for its money As for the bugs 
 - it takes about 30 seconds to download a patch, which makes the game perfectly stable.
  ________________________
  So, a quick recap:
  
  Graphics Great!
  Stability Stable once 
 patched
  -----------------------------------
  Combat Freaking Incredible
  SingleplayerPredictable plot, but great immersion/storytelling
  Multiplayer 5 great classes 
 and good maps
  _______________________
  
  Simply put, if you expect an epic RPG, go play Final Fantasy or something
  If you want an action 
 game, play Dark Messiah, because it's awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinfelker42
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  It seems rare I find a game these days where I don't need a break.
  
  First, the graphics are great. Plenty of dynamic lighting, color, and diverse levels.
  I find 
 the design and artistic direction to be very immersive.
  You'll see dungeons, temples, mountains, ships, cities, etc.
  
  DMMM makes EXCELLENT use of 
 the source engine, more so than Halflife 2 (in regards to physics, all it had was the gravity gun) . 
 In DMMM you can kick opponents off cliffs or into traps, throw items, or trigger environmental 
 traps. Imagine someone is in pursuit of you on a high cliff (and there's a lot of high drops in 
 this game) , you freeze the ground with an ice spell, they slip on it, and due to momentum, slide 
 right over the edge!!! It really is great fun, and feels well excuted. One reviewer said the traps 
 were scripted, but they are dynamic physics, and you have to time it right so the swinging logs, 
 collapsing ceiling, or rolling barrels do what you intended.
  
  The roleplaying element works well, you have a limited # of skill points to spend throughout the 
 game, focusing your character into a Warrior/Mage/Thief type classes. You won't be able to be all, 
 but you can definitely have some cross training.
  
  True, this is a linear game, but the amazing level design provides multiple paths to accomplish 
 your goal. Sneak in using crawl spaces and shadows, use your environment, or straight hack n' slash.
 
  
  This is an ACTION RPG, so it really bugs me when people say it's a bad RPG. The story isn't super 
 deep, but it kept me enticed to see what was next. For an action RPG, i found it to be fairly mentally 
 engaging. You _could_ play it as a straight hack n' slash, or you could sit back and snipe with 
 your arrows, cast charm on opponents and watch them thin their numbers, find weak spots in the 
 architecture to cause a trap, etc.
  
  Even hack n' slash has options, since some creatures are weaker/more resistant to elements. Some 
 of the weapons are enchanted with these elements, giving you some tactical options.
  
  
  My only complaints:
  Repeated same quips and taunts coming from enemies, but atleast they have 
 lots of character.
  Doors sometimes try to open towards you, causing them to close back (the AI tried to open a door 
 for 2 minutes) .
  Short, about 12-13 hours, but it never felt repetitive, so I could see replaying.
  Limited # 
 of magic items, kept finding the same items in 3 different locations.
  There's no map, and I was disoriented a few times.
  Sometimes, I would get snagged onto an object 
 in the path.
  
  DMMM is simply one of the most fun games I've played in a while because of the physics-based Source 
 engine. I used the 1.02 patch and had no stability issues. It attempts to be an Action RPG, and 
 I found it to accomplish that goal very well.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiousHeresy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  With extremely fun single-player and multi-player, Dark Messiah is truly an amazing game. Beneath 
 all the complaining and griping, the core of the game is rock solid. In fact, most of the complaints 
 about Dark Messiah are not the fault of the game as much as the fault of the reviewers.
  ________________________
  1) Much of the criticism of the game deals with its predictable plot 
 and mediocre skill-progression. For instance, Ill admit, DMs skill-progression feature 
 is not perfect far from it. But at least it HAS skill progression a feature that 
 most other action games lack. Better a mediocre skill-progression than none at all
  
  So, while these claims are true, I must ask: Why would you expect these things? Dark Messiah 
 is an ACTION GAME! You do not play action games for their amazing plots and skill-progression  
 you play them for their great action!
  ________________________
  2) Other complaints include below average graphics and many glitches/bugs. Personally, I think 
 DM is fantastic looking! Now its no Crysis, but on highest settings at a decent resolution, 
 Dark Messiah is on-par with (and at times outstrips) many next-gen games (Battlefield 2142, Oblivion, 
 etc.) At absolutely max settings, it will give Gears of War a run for its money As for the 
 bugs - it takes about 30 seconds to download a patch, which makes the game perfectly stable.
  ________________________
  So, a quick recap:
  
  Graphics Great!
  Stability 
 Stable once patched
  -----------------------------------
  Combat Freaking Incredible
  SingleplayerPredictable plot, but great immersion/storytelling
 
  Multiplayer 5 great classes and good maps
  _______________________
  
  Simply put, if you expect an epic RPG, go play Final Fantasy or something
  If you want 
 an action game, play Dark Messiah, because its awesome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekstrakt
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah of Might and Magic is a game built on the "Source Engine" by Valve. We already know 
 what this engine is capable of, by just seeing Half-Life 2. This engine is not made for games that 
 use magic, or RPG elements. Just not.
  The game is sloppy, very shallow story, many scripted actions. It's pretty much straight forward 
 playing, nothing like the other RPG or games where you use magic. The game forces you to use the 
 already scripted actions like cutting a rope to drop heavy things on an enemy, kicking enemies 
 into spike filled holes, and breaking support beams to collapse a structure and crush enemies underneath.
 
  The graphics and the sound design are from the "Source Engine", which is as engine, very good, 
 but this game doesn't make much use of it.
  The FPS aspect is good, but the many scripted actions and straight-forward gameplay, along with 
 the bad RPG elements make this game not worth the time playing it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suds100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played many first-person games but this by far is the best. Arkane has blended two major 
 genres (i. e. FPS and RPG) successfully, giving Dark Messiah excellent gameplay and not too bad 
 a storyline. The storyline resembles that of Devil May Cry 3 in the sense that the protagonist 
 (Sareth) is the son of a demon and unlike DMC3, the player has the choice of doing good or evil 
 at certain stages. The storyline revolves around an artifact called the "Skull of Shadows" which 
 has the power to free Sareth's father and his demon forces. Ultimately, you can choose to destroy 
 it or unleash the dark forces. Two female characters of note are Xana and Leanna. Xana is fused 
 into your soul at the beginning to help you on missions and her seductive remarks give the game 
 a light twist. Leanna on the other hand, is far sexier (my opinion!) and is physically with you 
 on some of the missions. 
  
  All in all, the graphics and sound were good and I had no hiccups at all. I found that gameplay 
 got a bit boring when walking through long hallways etc. but the architectural designs and structures 
 more than made up for that. Most of the scenery I would say was visually appealing (leaving Leanna 
 out!) . The choice of weapons displeased me somewhat. You only acquire the really interesting ones 
 during the final missions. The "Rope Bow" was quite cool though. It was essentially a bow with 
 unlimited arrows and when fired at a wooden ledge (or even trees) , a rope would appear allowing 
 you to climb up easily. Spells and learning new skills added to the unique gameplay of Dark Messiah. 
 Of particular interest to me was the Telekinesis ability, which I found to be very useful in stealthy 
 attacks. 
  
  I now conclude with saying that the learning curve is fair, taking an average gamer about 15 minutes 
 to learn the ropes. I would recommend Dark Messiah to anyone who wouldn't mind a simple, fun game 
 with a reasonable storyline.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnny_vicious
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I saw a preview for this game on TV a little while back and I must say that visually I was quite 
 impressed.
  It appeared as though it can compete with the 2 year old 'Oblivion' and 1 year old 'Two Worlds'. 
 the reason I mention the age of both these games is because to be honest 'Dark Messiah' does not 
 compete with these older games and yet it pretty much came out just under a month ago.
  
  The gameplay I found was rather boring, I have only played the game for no less than 2 hours and 
 I am already bored.
  Don't get me wrong, I am a huge fan of anything RPG based, even those games with a small hint of 
 Role playing such as 'Age Of Empires 3'.
  I have ceased playing Dark Messiah and decided i'll look at reviews and see what others think of 
 this monstrousity just incase the future of this game holds more, but I was not surprised when 
 I was greeted with further bad reviews and more disappointed individuals.
  
  The graphics I found amazingly poor considering the screen shots and previews I have seen on the 
 TV.
  To start with I felt myself in a familiar world, so familiar it made me remember back to the days 
 of endless playing of Might and Magic VI: The Mandate of Heaven, but don't be fooled, thats all 
 when and good back in 1998, but in 2008 where we expect amazing gameplay and brilliant graphics, 
 I wasnt happy.
  An example of familiarity from Might and Magic VI is that when I opened a cupboard it appeared 
 as thought the folded up sheets we're actually 2D, but upon further inspection it was just the 
 lame textures that created this illusion, I also found this for a lot of other details, such as 
 market stools and general items.
  Although not all is bad, I did find the horse ride at the beginning of the game a satisfying moment, 
 the lighting and effects of the huge stone gate was pretty hypnotic, it appeared as though I was 
 looking up at a heavenly stone gate with the beams of heavens light shining down onto its surface.
 
  
  The world I would say is pretty dull and it feels like your the only intelligent person roaming 
 the streets, not to mention the lack of actual people on the streets and again not even mentioning 
 the boring, repetitive details on these characters.
  I must of passed the same looking pedestrian about 3-4 times and I passed the exact same soldier 
 about 20 times.
  There is no free roam, okay I must admit, I haven't experienced the game for that long to encounter 
 a moment of free roaming, but even if there was a free roam feature, I would'nt be intrigued to 
 explore as everything is too alike and familiar.
  
  I would say the sound is pretty ugly aswell, I never found anything interesting and everything 
 sound the same, it was quite a strain on the ears, hearing the exact same slicing sound in a cycle 
 that went on and on and on.
  
  To round it up, I would say, do not buy this game unless you have every game in the world and you 
 are bored of them aswell.
  If you are new to the genre, go for something like Oblivion or if the worse comes to the worse 
 Two worlds..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jospark
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This RPG deserves better recognition. Jaded gamers may be expecting to give good ratings only to 
 expansively open ended RPG's like Oblivion or Gothic 3. But to this gamer, Dark Messiah has delivered 
 more 'fun' than than those other games. Maybe those that panned this game don't "grok" where it's 
 coming from. Instead of having the player spend 100+ hours on collecting 100+ different plants 
 and reagents and needing to remember a hundred or so "fetch it" quests, the Dark Messiah RPG delivers 
 a personal experience -- albeit linear, of living through an immersive fantasy action adventure, 
 such as needing to chase a ghoul over medieval city rooftops and sneaking through dank dungeons 
 and swinging from rope to rope. Eg: this RPG was high on "fun," and low on tedious "work."
  
  Graphically, the source engine delivered really well. The first dungeon was almost photo-realistic. 
 Character development was good, since the RPG offered different ways to solve problems and attack 
 opponents. The sexy female side characters were a welcome addition, rather than having a neutered 
 story line.
  
  To understand this game, think: swashbuckling RPG/First Person Sword swinging, combined with the 
 spirit of the classic game Thief along with the option to develop your character as a sorceror. 
 -- And it's not collection/delivery work disguised as a game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevermindwho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  This game is really good
  
  The graphics are very good, but i found quite a few glitches there, like I had no floor under my 
 feet or the wall just wanished in front of me or something like that!!!
  
  I had quite a few problems with sound, like sometimes it just went mad doing ''woom'', ''boom'' 
 and ext.
  
  I liked the gameplay a lot, but i think that the ending was crap!!!
  
  I is quite hard to find a way where to go and if you will go in the wrong direction you will die 
 or something!!!
  
  There was quite a few cheats, but they, as in every game, mess up the game!!! Of course i did use 
 walkthrough few times when i was realy stuck and couldn't find the right way
  
  The Conclusion
  
  The game is very well done, but if there wouldn't be the glithes itwould 
 be much better. And don't forget, don't spoil the game with the cheats 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiredDreemz
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  ... and that is that the graphics are pretty damn hot. Aside from that, the game sucks big time 
 through and through! The biggest complaint for me is that I practically didn't even finish the 
 game because I got exceptionally irritated with the constant crashing. Eventually I threw in the 
 towel, and placed the game at the back of the pile of my other games, never to see that glow of 
 my monitor ever again.
  
  Let's hope the console version is better.
  
  The enemy AI is also rather pathetic, and the combat is completely uninspiring. You can only get 
 so much excitement out of pushing an enemy off a cliff face or pushing them into spikes.
  
  The idea was there but it was not executed as well as it should have been. I say rather pirate 
 the game because it was a purchase that was a real waste of money. I can't agree with supporting 
 a game that gives me little opportunity to enjoy it due to the technical holes (not even glitches) ! 
 The developers should be ashamed with themselves for releasing a piece of garbage like this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrjo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  If you looking to involve yourself with a game that has a very good story. You definately will 
 find an ample amount of that, however technically speaking this game even after a year of updates 
 still has clipping and performance problems even on the best of machines. With that however, the 
 engagement and novel ideas behind many of the maps and locations are quite a demarkation from the 
 standard of FPS Shooters. This game actually makes you resort to using some strategy and I can 
 see this novel idea becoming so much more. 
  
  Humble Opinion Report: 
  
  The New style of FPS is fantastic once you overcome the learning curve of straight FPS. You will 
 also feel that it is a great game for those looking for a different flavor FPS. I would rank this 
 game in the area and genre of games like Deus Ex and Thief (I & II) though, a bit more engaging 
 storyline.
  
  I have also found that this is not a game setup to allow an FPS Nut to blow his wad. In that I 
 mean to say that it is neither cutting edge or something that changes the overall gaming community. 
 Rather the attempt it seems is to provide some novel idea's, gameplay and lastly to invoke you 
 on a possibility of options that makes the game feel RPG'ish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dietmoxie10
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  i really loved playing this game like 65% of the time, the other 35% is spent being more frustrated 
 than i have ever been with anything in my entire life. this game is so ridiculously annoying. imagine 
 halo 2 or 3 doing the same 2 minute stretch over and over again each time some bull____ brute jumps 
 out and kills you the same stupid way. then multiply that feeling by 50 and you have dark messiah. 
 fun until you start bashing your head on a wall or pulling your hair out in chunks. i literally 
 just screamed at my monitor for a few minutes alt-F4d and then came here and wrote this review. 
 laaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I find Dark Messiah of Might and Magic to be a bit underrated really. Sure, it is pretty short. 
 Sure, the story is very basic. Sure, the skill system is not nearly as deep as RPG's. But the combat, 
 oh the combat is just so much fun!
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  - The best thing about Dark Messiah is easily it's melee combat. There are quite a few weapons 
 to choose from, but most of the melee weapons work like either a either sword/axe or a staff. The 
 combat system, which has many different "power strikes" and finishing moves, is IMO just plain 
 fun! It puts other games with first person sword combat to shame. (mainly, Oblivion) The game does 
 have magic too, but I'm don't usually play as a mage type of character, so I can't really say how 
 fun it is. I did experiment with it a little, and it seemed ok though. There are also bows, the 
 the only good thing to use them is shooting rope arrows. (Thief, anyone?) You could also play as 
 an assassin who uses stealth, but that just doesn't *feel* as great as playing as a mighty warrior/wizard 
 because the game is VERY combat oriented.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 4.5/10
  - Well, it's an arcade action game, through and through. So you can't except it to be exceptionally 
 immersive. You could easily skip the story since it's very basic. But this game clearly isn't about 
 deep storyline & immersion, it's about kicking some ass! (sometimes literally)
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  - They are ok. Nothing really wrong with them and the textures & lightning effects 
 look quite good. But you really shouldn't judge this game (or any other game) by it's graphics.
 
  
  Sound: 6.5/10
  - Like graphics, they are ok. Nothing really wrong, but nothing amazing. Basic stuff.
  
  Physics: 
 8/10
  - There's nothing like kicking some orcs down the stairs! Really, the physics work very well in 
 this game but still, it's very basic Havok & Ragdoll stuff.
  
  Replay value: 6/10
  - It's just so fun! I feel like I could never get tired of impaling orcs and slashing goblins heads 
 off. But if you are looking for actual replay value, meaning different paths and different choices, 
 look elsewhere. You could custom your characters skills a bit, but is still doesn't affect the 
 gameplay that much.
  
  Value for money: 5.5/10
  - It depends what you are after. If you are looking for a long game with immersive storyline, this 
 is not a game for you. If you are just looking for some good old arcade slash & smash fun, I really 
 recommend this game. The combat system is really what makes this game so fun to play.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 7/10
  - The bugs are mostly the usual source engine stuff, sound 
 stuttering eg. I have applied all the patches and the game has crashed only once or twice. Performance 
 is quite solid, though there is one particular area where my framerate dropped from 50 to below 
 10, but it was temporary.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Very unlikely. 
 There's nothing that innovative & original to make it a classic.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - As I said, anyone who likes good old arcade slash 
 & smash fun and doesn't need a long game with deep story and replay value.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlinegamer999
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  this game is brilliant, i love everything about it.
  the mutliplayer is good,
  ragdoll deaths,
  perfect music,
  brilliant graphics,
  great story line,
  
  so .... yeah... 
 top notch game if you dont have it, i really think its worth a buy!!!
  
  the best RPG game i have played!
  
  the levels are allways designed to make you think and that 
 is a great quality to have in a action game so its not just non stop fighting !
  
  its great because unlike any other RPG game, in this you dont have to select a class (fighter, 
 mage, theif) in Dark Messiah you play as all at once and you become better in some things than 
 others, like creeping or archery.
  
  the graphics are also top notch: the spell animations look very satisfying and the weapons - oh 
 they just look incredible in your hands! The way the Daggers of Frost sizzle and crackle in your 
 hands! The animations of an enemy fireball that erupts against your shield, leaving behind a heat 
 blur! Even the enemy monsters, though there are only about a dozen types of them (a small downside) , 
 they are each animated in perfect detail.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thessassin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong it is a good game but it could have been much more. this game has its share 
 of the good and the bad but still comes through as a good game but it could have seriously been 
 better if it had been more polished.
  
  Fist of all the graphics are nice and the game does have nice scenery, but what is the point if 
 most of your adventure is spent crawling through a crypt which seriously gets old soon. most of 
 the game is spent underground in dungeons and crypts and it almost all seems to look the same. 
 if that wasn't bad enough in some areas they make it completely dark and throw of all generic things 
 zombies at you... it does get kinda freaky. The game does have its nice outdoor moments where you 
 can truly appreciate the scenery and this is where the game just shines. 
  
  The combat in this game is highly immersive. playing as a warrior, assassin, archer or a mage is 
 fun and all have their good points. the ways to kill enemies in this game is astounding. kicking 
 orcs into spike walls, off cliffs, into each other, into a fire, into collapsible barricades is 
 great but on top of that there are even more ways to kill. you can break an oil barrel and ignite 
 it and kick you enemies into the flames you can shoot an arrow at a rope and activate a trap killing 
 your enemies or you can go in the good ol' fashioned way, hacking through orcs, backstabbing, getting 
 headshots, or freezing them and shattering them with a mighty kick.
  
  The multiplayer is where this game truly shines. The CTF concept mixed with the whole pushing back 
 into bases thing is just plain fun. Sure at first there seem to be class imbalances, but as you 
 get more experienced you realize that every class is good if you can play it right and know when 
 to play it. Mages are incredibly powerful at high levels but they are useless against a warrior 
 using the shield skill. Assassins are stealthy and can become invisible and backstab, feign death 
 and backstab an unsuspecting enemy, lay traps and blow up an unsuspecting enemy or disguise himself 
 as an enemy and backstab an unsuspecting enemy (lol by far my favourite class) although a priestess 
 can see through any assassin disguise, be it invisibility, feign death, or disguise, and rangers... 
 triple shot arrows ready and the second you turn a corner and see that ranger... its already too 
 late.
  
  The game is fun multiplayer and a good and the single player is OK and its also chop full of glitches 
 and bugs. but its worth a try if u like this type of game. and i really need to reinstall this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Well it took a little time getting used to it, but after I downloaded the patches it ran alot smoother, 
 before the patches though it wasnt worth playing. It has pretty good graphics and good old wholesome 
 violence. The story line is decent I guess, but the gameplay is solid. Would not reccomend messing 
 around being a caster or theif in the game since the skill tree is overly in favor of the warrior 
 class. Anyhow it is a fun game to play, and thats what matters in the end. Plus I picked my copy 
 up at hastings for like 30 bucks and it was the limited edition version soooo. Not much to say 
 about this game just filling in word space, apple, pineapple, applesauce, apple juice, apple cider, 
 apple chips, apple jelly, candy apples. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apsalus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Before Dark Messiah, I had played many RPGs but never any from the M&M series. The only reason 
 I gave Dark Messiah a try was because I really liked Heroes V. I gotta say... Dark Messiah was 
 the most pleasant surprise I've had ever since I looked down and found out I had male genitalia. 
 
  
  First, what intrigued me was the combat system. You have a sword in one hand and your shield in 
 the other, each controlled by the click of a mouse button. As an enemy comes at you, you have to 
 try and parry or block and then counterattack - in other words, whether you're a good fighter or 
 not is determined by your skill with the blade, not your luck with dice. The overall result is 
 that the combat FEELS realistic. 
  
  Next what captured me was the story. The story revolves around YOU, so you feel like you're always 
 the center of attention: there's a hot demon chick who whispers sexual innuendos in your ear giving 
 you advice and serving as an overall very pleasant companion. On the other hand, you meet a sexy 
 blonde who seems like the "good girl" type: it's up to you to pick which woman you like best. Finally, 
 a game that has both violence AND sex!
  
  The graphics are top notch: the spell animations look very satisfying and the weapons - oh they 
 just look incredible in your hands! The way the Daggers of Frost sizzle and crackle in your hands! 
 The animations of an enemy fireball that erupts against your shield, leaving behind a heat blur! 
 Even the enemy monsters, though there are only about a dozen types of them (a small downside) , 
 they are each animated in perfect detail.
  
  What makes this game UNIQUE among all RPGs out there is that you do NOT have a to pick any single 
 class (warrior, mage, theif, etc) . Instead, you can be all the classes at once. This translates 
 into a better game because if you ever get bored of using one style (say, spells) you can always 
 switch to another style of combat (say, melee) . In other games like Oblivion, once you're a Sorcerer 
 its hard to change into a Warrior... so you have the start the game over. In Dark Messiah, that 
 is not the case. 
  
  I can't say enough good things about this game: the levels are always designed to make you think, 
 the atmosphere is sometimes scary enough to make you scream outloud in fright and at other times 
 beautiful enough to make you stop fighting and just have a look around, the telekinesis spell is 
 fun to play around with (I spent two hours just having fun with this spell alone) . Some of the 
 most innovative features in this game include the various ways you can murder your enemies: these 
 are much more diverse than just stabbing or sending a fireball at your foe. Oh no you can send 
 a fireball at a pillar to knock out a platform and have it crush your foe. Or you can sneak up 
 on an orc and kick him into a wall of spikes. Or you can kick a goblin into a campfire and watch 
 him catch fire and run around screaming. Or, my favorite, come up to an orc from behind and kick 
 him off a cliff - then come up to the edge and watch him scream as he falls down. The environments 
 are also very conducive to experimentation: there are, for example, lots of deadly traps that are 
 ready for you to spring on your foes (e. g. cut a rope with an arrow from your bow, and a giant 
 log will descend on your enemies) . 
  
  I could go on about other great features such as the rope bow, the hilarious headshots, and the 
 awesome boss battles (involving giant cyclops or lightning drakes) but I think you get the idea. 
 I loved this game so much that I did not want it to end - by the last chapter, I quit because I 
 didn't want to get to the ending. On a last note, I've never experienced any glitches or bugs with 
 this game at all. However, even if you ARE having technical difficulties any PC gamer should know 
 by now what patches are for. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DisturbdKoRnKiD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, I couldn't even finish this game since the glitches were so immense that they halted 
 the games progress completely. Aside from that, everything falls into place beautifully. Decent 
 graphics that don't require much work, great combat that keeps you from simply hacking and slashing, 
 as well as a pretty good story line keep you wanting to play... until your computer freezes because 
 of the mind-gnawing glitches that plague this master piece. Thought eh physics and rag-doll effects 
 are done fantastically by the Source engine. Combat can be made even more complex by throwing traps 
 into the mix by kicking enemies into spiked walls or causing a ledge to crash down on their head. 
 Though, once again, the glitches are just sooooooo miserable! It's enough to make you pull your 
 hair out. Luckily it will be out for the 360 in 2008, which is what you should definitely wait 
 for before judging this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjacksonn
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah of Might and Magic finds itself using a nice looking game engine, with over the top 
 gory gameplay, but with slightly less depth in story or emotional-mental immersion. Nice as far 
 as I can tell. Thanks Arkane for your beautiful work. This rev-u er dont appreciate it cuz they 
 are slugs from pavement grooves. The system requirements are high, the graphics look nice, and 
 the game is no longer buggy, with no serious flaws. For those looking for a quality first person 
 RPG game (which are very scarce in 2006) , you are recommended to buy it, not now but right now. 
 
  Also, is a simple first-person shooter at heart, but it's very well-put-together and does what 
 it does exceedingly well. It has superb graphics, truly impressive sound effects, and fast-paced, 
 enjoyable action sequences. The entire game is very atmospheric, and a lot of fun to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  This is quite an underated game but is well worth playing. The visuals are good and the combat 
 system is excellent - much easier to control than Gothic 3, which I also just finished but never 
 really understood past a clickfest for combat.
  It is a linear FPS more than RPG though the character development is effective and easy to understand 
 and do. I went for melee when I played it but it would be easy to play again as a wizard although 
 I am not sure I have the interest to do that just yet.
  The game is a bit short (took me a few evenings) although as I say it is FPS not a wide open RPG. 
 Also the ending is rather poor. There are 2-3 possibilities for the ending but either way there 
 is not even a cut scene at the end or any sort of reconciliation with the demon chick that is in 
 your head for most/all of the game so it falls a bit flat at the end.
  Just good fun really though; well worth a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fexxe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah: Might and Magic is a game running on the CS: S engine from Valve. But here's some 
 facts about the good and the bad.
  
  The Good:
  
  -Combat System: There's really just 1 thing to say about the combat system, and that's Wauw! . 
 It is Really great, the way you can cut off almoste every body part of an opponent if you manages 
 to hit the joint.
  There are loads of different combos for you to do, plus you can kick people off bridges, buildings 
 or a mountianside. You can even destroy an enemy's shield if it's make out of wood, and you do 
 a power strike on it.
  If you deal enough damage to enemies, your adrenaline bar will slowly fill itself up, and when 
 it reaches max you go into a rage, and you can 1 shot most opponents with an array of really nice 
 Arenaline Strikes to decapitate your enemy or pierce your sword though them.
  
  - Talents : There's also a kind of talents system, that allow you to spec into specialities like, 
 Stealth, Magic (Fire frost or Telekenetic) , Armed combat with a big weapon. All this is a very 
 nice feature, as it makes you able to choose what you want. As you progress in the game, you gain 
 Skill Points, to spend in the Talent three.
  
  -Graphic and physics: As mentioned, the game is useing the CSS engine, but they managed to tune 
 up the graphics abit more imo. The blood and gore in this game is also very nice, and add to the 
 ofc ragdoll effects, you can kick enemies into spikes ect.
  You are also able to climb robes, and use a special bow to fire of an arrow to deploy a robe for 
 you to climb.
  
  -Inviroment: The feel you get of this game is really really nicely done, you are always alone, 
 so entering a tomb with zombies all over is really scary at times. Most zombies eg. spawn by digging 
 themselv up from the ground.
  
  -Arsenal: There's a really large ammount of weapons for you to choose, like daggers, 1h swords 
 with a shield, big 2h claymore, staffs, bows and scrolls for spells.
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Magic: If you choose to go for the magic part of the game, you might be abit disapointed, but 
 not that much again. The way you fire of spells is you choose a hand , much like you scroll though 
 your weapons, and then use eg. a Freezeing hand to freeze or slow enemies. All spells have their 
 own Hand it use the spell. But the spell combat is nice though, since you can hurl massive balls 
 of fire, or shoot off a small fireball that you can control where to go. For me atleast, this way 
 of fireing off the spell is quite tedius, since you have to swich hand all the time.
  
  -Multiplayer: The MP in the game is really bad, full of lag and you cant really hit anything with 
 a weapon because of it. I got too fustrated after playing like 2-3 matches so I quit that.
  
  Overall this game is a really nice game, worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creativeminded
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  
  Sup people,
  
  This is a PC and360 game which should be considered by anyone who likes Morrowind or Oblivion type 
 games. This game didn't get the best reviews and many people didn't give it a try but i found it 
 for $21 few days ago and i bought it. A cheap alternative to Oblivion i figured and I'm surprised 
 at how much i looove this game! Below i will talk about what makes this game great and why i recommend 
 it 
  
  How is this game played? 
  
  It's a first person game but not a shooter. It's in the old days with swords, Goblins and magic 
 users. You see a word in your right hand and a shield in the other to put an image in your head. 
 You can't switch to third person view.
  
  Isn't this a game which is just a poor attempt at ripping off Oblivion?
  
  Not at all. This 
 game may look like Oblivion but it has it's own ****and you don't explore a massive world. In Oblivion 
 players could wonder off for hours just admiring the world and not even following the main story 
 line but this doesn't exist in Dark Messiah (DM) . It's more action and story driven so you move 
 from one scene to the next. 
  
  You can't explore a big beautiful world? Oblivion was good because it had exploring and fighting 
 but the fighting was never anything special and with out exploring got boring... so DM would get 
 boring with just fighting right?
  
   
 and fighting feels very solid. You have different paths you go down like being a brute force with 
 weapons type, magic user, archer, silent killer etc: You can attack with fast strikes or do power 
 strikes which require you to hold down the left click button (PC) for a couple seconds and then 
 releasing. You will learn to switch between both because the enemy is pretty smart and will parry 
 or block your attacks with their shields. Power strikes can't be blocked so it's a useful tactic. 
 There are another 4 power strike moves which can be done with any weapon depending which direction 
 you are moving at the time but unlike Oblivion you don't have to keep moving in that direction 
 to do say a side swipe. Tap for example left and at the same time prepare a power strike. Now you 
 can move in any direction and it won't be lost (unlike oblivion where you have to keep circling 
 the enemy) . 
  
   
 right and the Orc will stamble to the right. Swipe his face and he will stumble in pain holding 
 his face for a moment. Boot him so he looses balance or just kick himdown the stairs. The physics 
 are great so you can have a lota fun throwing em all over the place Combine sword attacks with 
 booting to loose balance and magic and you got userself a good time. 
  
  Do you like blood???
  
   
 clean weapon. It adds to the game nicely though because there is a great deal of satisfaction from 
 slicing a head off a once powerful orc to bask in victiory.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
   
 have huuuge  
 strain on your computer.
  
  Repley Value?
  
   normal mode 
 and hard to master. 
  
  COULD YOU TELL US MORE?
  
  Ummmm let me think... uhhh NO! This took ages to write, lol. Anyway if you like Oblivion but want 
 something more focused on
  
  fighting and some nice blood for good measure then get this game now!!! I can't stop playing it 
 and obviously i like it more then Oblivion (which i liked but DM is more fun) .
  
  Fix spelling mistakes if any?
  
  NEVER!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikestanlake
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a fanstastic game all around. There is no denying it's merit. The modding community 
 thrives in Bethesda Games as well. There is seemingly no limit to what you can do; however, there 
 is when it comes to combat.
  
  The combat, blood effects, physics, and environment are lacking in Oblivion. The script extender 
 and some talented modders are starting to change all that. You can now decapitate and maim opponents, 
 but consider how long these advancements are taking.
  
  Dark Messiah has the combat system I had been looking for straight out of the box. The enviornment 
 is manipulative and you can play the game over and over again and slay your victims in whichever 
 way you desire. Kick them off a cliff, knock them into spikes. Break the floorboards beneath them 
 and watch them plummet. You can disarm your opponents, crush them, or slice them apart.
  
  In a perfect world, the open-endedness and graphical genius which is Oblivion would be fused with 
 Dark Messiah's combat system to make an ultimate single-player RPG experience; however, the world 
 is far from flawless.
  
  Oblivion is the "open-ended" RPG player's true friend. Dark Messiah is a friend to those who want 
 open-ended combat scenarios with a linear/logical progression. The story line is not as poor as 
 many have said, and I have only experienced one major bug which was easily repaired by hitting 
 "repair" in the Modify Installation program.
  
  I find myself reloading levels in Dark Messiah to play over and over again tirelessly, while my 
 Oblivion characters collect dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dajmin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  There's not much I can add to the full review, because a lot of it is true. If you haven't read 
 the Gamespot one yet, do so before reading this.
  
  Environment
  The game looks great on my modest computer and the outdoor environments are pretty well done. Admittedly, 
 the indoor dark areas are a bit samey, but this seems to be standard FPS fare - we all seem to 
 need our dark corridors. But temples and cliffsides and city walls all looked nice and impressive.
 
  
  AI
  Sometimes it can be a ltitle lacking. The fact that the spawn and trigger points can be pretty 
 obvious sometimes doesn't help. But you never feel like you're truly battling against endless hordes 
 of monsters. They trickle along in numbers just low enough that you can dispatch them all easily. 
 The poison spiders are just frustrating, because they mean you pretty much have to train the healing 
 spell or you simply can't continue in some areas.
  
  Combat
  This is where I love this game. The enemies feel solid. When you smack them with a club or sword, 
 you can see them react. Sometimes the orcs have moments when you think they should attack but don't 
 (like after ripostes or parrys) and sometimes it feels like they attack too much. But on the whole, 
 the combat is pretty good.
  Unfortunately, there's just not enough of it. Not enough enemies, and those you find don't take 
 long to take down. It does sometimes feel like they were trying to show off the environmental physics 
 rather than the combat mechanics with the placement of enemies. I think it would have been better 
 if you had to find these spiked walls and flimsy supports yourself, rather than finding a bad guy 
 standing next to them.
  
  The big downfall is that swordsman is pretty much the only way to go. You can't sneak past the 
 spiders, most of the orcs see you before you can get close, and as soon as you hit one with an 
 arrow they run toward you, making an archer sort of useless. And it's not like there are any really 
 good sniping points where you could place yourself as an archer, or spots where you can set up 
 an ambush as a stealth character. You can customise your character, but you are forced to follow 
 pretty much the same advancement path every time because the game is pretty linear.
  
  Overall
  I never had any problems with bugs so I can't really talk about that, but it was really 
 the melee combat which kept me playing. The storyline is a little predictable, and you can see 
 both endings by simply saving before the choice at the end, making it a little less dramatic. The 
 story could've been doing with another few hours of play, and the character advancement should 
 have some of the restrictions removed to allow more freedom.
  But if you like sword fights and messing around with physics, you can do worse than Dark Messiah. 
 I think a decent mod team could turn this into something absolutely first rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  I'm enjoying DMoMM very very much. There are some points that feel unbalanced: fighting or getting 
 stuck into fights that are hard to get out of (swarmed by goblins or Vampire Guardsmen) , and the 
 two boss levels were deceptively easy (took out the cyclops in under 30 seconds and the giant spider 
 in a little over 3 minutes if I hadn't died several times from being squished during it's death 
 throws - oops) .
  
  Visually it's great, voice acting is nice and while it feels liek a linear story, the story is 
 there and keeps flowing nicely. 
  
  But the real novelty (to me anyway) is the whole combat system: you are not rewarded for taking 
 down monsters so you are liberated to do it any way possible: booting them off ledges or into the 
 ever present spiked walls (some twisted interior design sense there) , or setting fire traps for 
 them and luring them over it, or chucking barrels into them or turning the terrain into deadly 
 traps with avalanches of barrels, tossing oil flasks onto them then setting them alight and on 
 and on and on. It; s best to sneak into an area, look at the available terrain, assess it; s uses 
 and then position yourself relative to them. I get lots of laughs by tripping them up and pushing 
 them into each other. 
  
  Oh and did I mention the finishing moves? Lovely. Do expose you a bit while the animation is playing 
 though.
  
  plus the cat fighting between the two female characters in your life is just hilarious: too bad 
 it's all in your head otherwise there would be even more potential as they interacted with each 
 other.
  
  Oh yes: how can a game be bad with a sexy demon in your head?
  
  I had originally seen the low review and wasn't sure about it (was also playing many hours of Oblivion 
 at the time so didn't need another fantasty RPG) , but when the price dropped to $20, I decided 
 to try the demo and fell in love with it. I recommend the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knut_The_Noob
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I can't see that anymore, a game which has wonderful graphics physics and gameplay, and then it's 
 finished in about 7 hours, i only thought, when the game ends, wtf this was the end that was the 
 endbattle, oh my god i've spent 50$ for that game.
  i only but the cd back and never touched it again. Why? 
  Because you have no motivation to play 
 it through again, okay you could play it again as assasin, magican or warrior but thats hardly 
 no motivation.
  It's cool to be a assasin, but you've seen it in many other, it's cool to be a warrior or magican 
 but then i would buy oblivion instead.
  Oh man..... the good things, the phisyks are just great, the graphics are also rather nice , and 
 the adrenaline kills are just awesome.
  So the game would be perfect if there would be a huge open world and not just linear always go 
 straight ahead, i only hate that a RPG without an open world,
  but if you see that game for 20$ or less buy it, please buy it!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Strider_
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  I rather enjoyed playing this one, though I do have some beef with it. 
  
  At first all was fine and dandy, it started off quite nicely. In the beginning, everything was 
 a thrill - the graphics, the wicked combat system, the physics, among other things... though there 
 were a few obvious spoilers within the first half-hour of the game or so that basically ended up 
 revealing the remaining two thirds of the story, or at least a major part of it. Which I found 
 to be quite ridiculous, given how the main character remained completely oblivious of his identity 
 until much later. And even then. Not too bright, this guy. Xana didn't help either. All she ever 
 really did was whine about everything... later she rambled on about how another character was "using" 
 the player, when it was quite obvious who was using whom, judging by her attitude. And yeah, she 
 was a bit over-the-top with her dialogue, to the point of annoyance.
  
  The combat system, while exciting at first, got really old really fast. Always the same old spiked 
 walls (why they're there in the first place, in the most random of places, is a complete mystery, 
 as if the enemies purposely put them there to make it more convenient for the player to kill them) , 
 the loose wooden platforms with crates and barrels on them, the high ledges with a bottomless abyss 
 to push enemies into... granted, Sareth does learn a new move or two along the way, but they're 
 obvious and easy moves that he probably should've known in the first place. That and there are 
 very few unique weapons to be found along the way - just one of the reasons why you never really 
 feel as if you're growing more powerful or really progressing a whole lot throughout the game. 
 Character development is really weak in this game, I found. 
  
  There were a lot of gaps in the storyline and gameplay as well, I found. At one point, while you're 
 jumping over some ever-so-reoccurring abysmal drops, a giant worm pops up and attempts to turn 
 you into a midday snack. Why the worm is there, what he's doing in the middle of an island, snacking 
 on casual tourists, I don't know. Sounds like an idea that arose during a late-night pot-smoking 
 session: "Hey, I've got one... get this dudes, a GIANT WORM that TRIES TO EAT YOU as you JUMP OVER 
 A CLIFF... I saw it while on an acid trip once... it was gnarly, maaaan..."
  
  I didn't have any technical issues with it, thankfully... and I found it amusing that (since it 
 uses the Source engine) the menus were very much the same as those found in Half-Life 2. 
  
  Leanna's walking animations were really stupid too. She looked like she had blistered feet 
 and a really nasty limp, with a lame attempt to look "hip and sexy" as she over-swayed her hips. 
 Also, in combat, she was utterly useless. I spent more time trying to prevent her from being killed 
 instead of actually going out and doing what I was supposed to. Hence why I just left her behind 
 every time, I just had no use for her and her wimpy spells.
  
  The weapon selection sucks. I thought it was kind of cool how you could forge your own weapons... 
 but there were only two types of longswords you could forge, steel and earthfire... and neither 
 are that amazing at all. Still, most of the weapons you find along the way are very similar in 
 their properties... and the stupid part was, the more "unique" enchanted super-whoopedy-dooper 
 ones did less damage (even WITH their magical perks) than a shoddy rusted old orc cleaver. I picked 
 them up going "OOOH WICKED! NOW I'M REALLY GONNA KICK SOM-... oh. This is crap, I'm throwing it 
 away." 
  
  That and there are only 8 or so different enemy types... so more repetition there. They all look, 
 act, sound the same... and the AI isn't that wonderful either. I think throughout the course of 
 the game you battle 4-5 cyclops and 2-3 pao-kai (dragon-ey-looking-thingies) . Each time I battled 
 the cyclops they got confused when I peppered them with arrows and just sort of walked around in 
 circles, then into walls (which only delayed my killing them, since I could never get a clear shot 
 of their eye) . 
  
  Each of the alternate endings wasn't that different from the other, and were all pretty shallow 
 and empty-feeling. Felt very incomplete to me. 
  
  I did enjoy it, really, it wasn't bad. But it wasn't the greatest either... most of the goodies 
 that seem like goodies in the beginning, are repeated throughout the game, and so it gets pretty 
 boring after a while, even annoying in some places. They definitely had a number of interesting 
 and innovative ideas here, but it lacked a lot of things as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BullDog45
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  When entering the world of Dark Messiah I found the storyline of the game brings us to a world 
 that is built and designed in a very appealing way. The Layout of the game that the designers planed 
 for the world gave a good challenge in figuring out how to precede pass the obstacles and to continue 
 through the game to the main goal. The use of objects magical spell in the world is a good addition 
 with the aid of other characters was n added benefit to also further your advancements through 
 the world. The characters also help make the story of the game more intriguing to continue the 
 game to find out what is next, the overall length of the game seems to be a short to moderate length 
 of play and there is a repetitive use of the control and the decision of what items, spells and 
 weapons the players wants to use or keep. Overall I enjoyed the experience of playing this game 
 for the different methods of going through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrednajasobaka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  I have a great respect for gamespot and its reviewers but I cannot figure out how game like Dark 
 Messiah of M&M can get a score of 6.7 . Unfairness of this score is further underlined by fact 
 that it's one point lower then other reviews gave it and almost 2 points lower than what readers 
 gave it. Perhaps if you come with expectations that DM is hardcore RPG game, you'll give get disappointed 
 and tend to give it lower score. However, if you take the game on its own merits it's a treat. 
 
  
  
  
  First of all, gamaespot's review complains about repetitive combat system and for RPG game the 
 Dark Messiah definitely lacks in depth. However, in my opinion the combat is refreshing different 
 from I've seen in any other game. The ability to throw items, set traps and kick opponents gives 
 the combat almost brawl feel to it. Gamespot complains that combat gets tedious, bet given that 
 single player is rather short I never got tired of kicking opponents into spikes, throwing burning 
 crates at them, knocking group down by throwing barrel down the stairs and etc. As a matter fact, 
 game offers you numerous opportunities to dispatch enemies in various "accidents" without you having 
 to unsheathe the sword. But if this bores you, you can always come back to traditional sword/magic 
 fighting. 
  
  
  
  The plot is rather lame because "I'm an apprentice of a wizard and I need to discover who I am" 
 thing has been done to death. But still, following the story is interesting because of scripted 
 events and various locations that it will take you to. The latter one is definitely one of the 
 stronger points of the game; the locations you'll encounter are often spectacular. From fighting 
 on a ship, to entire city built on the side of the cliff, to finally necropolis, the city of the 
 dead this is one of the most visually impressive games I played in a while. I often found myself 
 stopping and just checking out the surroundings, which I rarely do in a game. 
  
  
  
  Unfortunately, the game does have annoying habit of crashing into the desktop once in a while. 
 Hopefully there will be patches that address that. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomZaW
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Dark messiah is something that will make you cry... cry because of the great combat system and 
 the good animations going to the grave, with a dull, linear and incredibly short story, and too 
 many unforgivable bugs. The story is about you who is a young apprentice (what a surprise) that 
 has to bring a crystal to another town, but as soon as you arrive the town is attacked (my my my 
 the developers have certainly been innovative) then later you find out you are a evil demon, son 
 of a bigger demon and so on. The game itself is way too short, you can get new skills by completing 
 objectives but the game is not a sandbox like oblivion, so the character building opportunities 
 is very limted, and it is hard to scramble enough points together to get the high tier abilities. 
 The combat system on the other hand is amazing, with several ways to kill your opponent, but why 
 bother fighting the orc with the big sword, with your own when he is nearly blind and deaf, and 
 always stands on an unstable bridge, on the top of a very high cliff, or right next to a spiked 
 wall, when all you have to do is give him a gentle punt with the foot? even without the spiked 
 walls and high cliffs etc the enemies are still very easy to defeat, since its just parry-kick'n 
 slash.
  Dark Messiah had everything it took to make a great game, but the insane amount of bugs and the 
 dull and short story, and the WAY too easy enemies makes this a top ten of the worst game in history 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatexpka
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This game has many amazing features, it has amazing graphics the game has a great story to it, 
 and assassinating people is just plain fun. I like how this game has more then one way to end the 
 story, but i cant give it a 10 because they didnt make change for the end somewhere in the middle. 
 But instead it was at the end. So basically you can save the game at the end kill the boss then 
 choose a way. Then you can reload the saved game to see the other version of the end. But other 
 then that I love how you have to hunt for special items, and how you have to decide from good or 
 evil. This game is a must for all adventure players and I hope they make another great story out 
 of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HollowShinigami
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  Alright... First, I must say that I have little to no knowledge of the rest of the Might &amp; 
 Magic universe, mainly because it's always bored me to tears... This game, however, after playing 
 the demo, became a must-own.
  I'm a huge fan of games like Oblivion -- that is to say, Medieval RPGs from a first-person perspective.. 
 And this game doesn't disappoint. Now, on to the actual review.
  
  Graphics: 4/5
  This game has some pretty impressive visuals, considering that it's Source... and Half-Life 2 wasn't 
 the most visually stunning game I've ever seen.
  
  Audio: 5/5
  For once -- they didn't use the recycled sword WOOSH CHING sound effects. Besides that, I found the 
 soundtrack to be rather catchy.
  
  Gameplay: 3/5
  This is where the game starts to fall short. The combat is many times a bit difficult, however, 
 if you've got the quick-save/quick-load keys memorized.. It shouldn't be too much of a problem. 
 ... And it's just so much fun to sear a goblin with a lavasword, then laugh evilly as they fall 
 off of a cliff.
  
  Story/etc: 4/5
  I liked this game's story, even if it was far-fetched.. Even for a fantasy game. The characters 
 were interesting, as were the enemies... And I rather liked the abilities system.
  
  Bottom Line:
  Play the game... However, I must give warning: you will need a computer that's 
 at least able to run Oblivion on Medium to High. That's my suggestion, anyway.
  I give this game an 8.5/10.
  Why? Simple. Read my review classification. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fiammeggiar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  If you want Oblivion in the Source engine, skip Dark Messiah. If you'd like Doom III with bows 
 and arrows, skip Dark Messiah. If you desire Half-Life 2 in a fantasy setting, skip Dark Messiah. 
 If however you are looking for a fun, action-packed FPS with RPG-lite elements and gorgeous graphics, 
 then spend the $10 and prepare for an engaging experience.
  
  Combat, especially sword to sword, can be awkward at first, but upon acclimating to the feel and 
 flow of the battles a sense accomplishment is your reward. Simultaneously cutting, slicing, and 
 kicking 3 Orcs into submission may not be easy, but it is fulfilling. Engagements are often set 
 pieces either avoided altogether (for the sneak-thieves) , faced head on, or completed effortlessly 
 by using the game triggers (props) not always obvious upon first glance. In terms of technical 
 difficulties, I never encountered a single CTD, broken scripted sequence, or stuck/skipped audio.
 
  
  As for replay-ability, Dark Messiah is essentially many titles in one, offering hours of different 
 gameplay. Relying strictly on brute force (as I did) , beating opponents with the strength of your 
 sword arm (and armored boot) is a viable option. Keeping to the shadows, skirting entanglements, 
 and striking silently from behind is another way to go. Magic users bubbling over with mana can 
 electrocute, incinerate, and throw their attackers across (and out of) the room.
  
  I thought Dark Messiah was extremely enjoyable but I also paid a pittance and ran it on a powerhouse 
 rig. If you can find it on sale (because of it's brevity of game time) and own a modern computer 
 (because of it's beautiful graphics) definitely pick it up.
  
  Review System:-
  Athlon X2 6000
  Abit AN52
  2 Gig PC2 6400 Ram
  nVidia 8800 GTX
  X-Fi 64 Meg
  Sata RAID 
 0
  Gateway FPD2185W 21 
  beyerdynamic DT770 Pro Headphones 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelsoldier666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  A game thats awesome from the beginning to the end each player can do everything he wants from 
 the character. He can Choose from 3 classes Wizard Warrior Assassin or be good at everything The 
 game has a few Problems when it comes of it being short length but the multiplayer evens things 
 up I think this game is a wonderful revolution of Graphics, A very fast action rpg style game, 
 i think the rpg is actually pretty simple so any player can get used to the game. I think the game 
 needed some patches to make the game a little harder for warrior since its considered the best 
 class for the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elpelon52
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun. You can play as either a spell-caster, melee warrior, stealth assassin, 
 or a combination of all three. The graphics are OK, for being a year out of date, but the physics 
 and overall gameplay are great. There's an unusually strong story line, too. It's very immersive; 
 I play for hours at time. I just can't seem to quit. Almost every situation in the game calls for 
 strategy and using the environment to your advantage. You won't get far playing this as a hack-and-slash 
 game.
  
  But, definitely make sure your video and audio drivers are both up to date, otherwise you're likely 
 to experience a lot of lock-ups. The game was really buggy at release and the patches didn't resolve 
 everything (do patch it, of course) . You need strong drivers to play the game.
  
  Thanks Maingear for including this game free with my new PC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuisCruz30
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  I read some reviews, and some are very funny, i have a core duo,4 Gb ram and 8800 gts, and i play 
 the game until the end, if i wad two glitches, well... i think some people, or didn`t like the game, or 
 didn`t now ao to play, and write some bad reviews because of it, even great games like farcry, Oblivion 
 and etc, have been patched to correct some annoyng BUGs, i don`t understan wy some people want to 
 make others believe that the bug in dark messiah it`s so diferent from the others, or it`s diferent 
 to some people, in that order, if Crysis come with ONE or TWO bugs, il be the BAD game Ever, please, don`t 
 make me laf.
  Well the game have good grafics, the combat system some times is funny (kick enemys from the edges) 
 and thought, make you parry very often to go trought, and the optional quests makes the replay value 
 very good, some interesting thing in the game, is the Skill points, you never in one time trough, get 
 every points to your caracter, you have to make a choice, be Mage, be Warrior or be Assassin, make 
 the people o like it, try others ways to finish the game.
  If you like some thing a litle diferent, i recoment you to try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  ive truly never played a Game requiring magic or spell casting and liked it. i did play one before 
 and didnt even finish. However, i was totally into this game. It was very entertaining. The magic 
 was not soley used so i was safe to fight. The assortment of weapons and potions was great. No 
 lack at all of what to use. Some of your weapons couldnt be used until way into the game as quests 
 and skill points needed to be gained for them to be active. You also have two women nagging at 
 you. natch such is life. one is a real witch,,, She says she loves you but you know that evil is 
 in her heart .. the other seems to pop up at the oddest times. your fighting everything that moves 
 and bang there she is. tell you how great you are right... The ai is pretty nice. Spooky dark, 
 tough to get around. your best weapon is a rope bow that shoots arrows that you can climb as long 
 as theres wood above you. A lot of vampire slaves i found it fun to sit high up and shoot them 
 with a normal arrow. they explode. anyway, your whole goal is to get a skull. two ends. one good 
 one evil. I did run out of a few spells but that was my fault. like i said new to this. All and 
 all. you play just to see whats around next corner what creature you need to kill and what coffin 
 your health is in. The main thing is to have fun and its fun. magic fighting puzzles weapons, love 
 hate, blood gore Creatures big and small.. give it a try im sure youll like it. dont know what 
 else to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joseperezvazque
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  darl messiah es un gran juego su dise&ntilde; o de nivel y grafico son extremaamente buenas y la 
 accion no le pide nada a half-life2, bioshock &oacute; a oblivion y por lo general el criterio 
 de gamespot aveses no es muy bueno y eso se nota cuando le dieron calificacion alta ala basura 
 de medal of honor: fronline y varios usuarios se han dado cuenta como los que le handado calificacion 
 alta a este bello juego de dark messiah que revoluciona en su dise&ntilde; o de nivel abierto y 
 en la mejora del uso de la fisica como arma y que reinterpreta algnas armas de half-life 2 de una 
 manera soblesaliente 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssta
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah Might and Magic, the game is great.
  I never thought the game would be like any ordinary FPS, because it's Might and Magic . I played 
 Heroes of Might and Magic a lot.
  The source engine makes the game... can I say familiar? Wasn't Half life 2 like that? Oh, yes it 
 was.
  But this game has it's own great story.
  DMMM has a good beggining. The graphics are well and smooth even on my not so new PC.
  But it 
 had some bugs. I can't really understand it, but the game chopped sometimes on the fade-in after 
 the loading.
  I finished the game two times, and I'm playing it right now.
  The leg is a very useful weapon, not for the damage, but it's useful.
  First game with leg as 
 a weapon. Well not first. The old Doom games had a leg, but it dealt damage.
  
  Anyway, worth to play, if you say it isn' so good.
  Can't understand why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clawt
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  The gamespot review makes reference to numerous glitches with the game, and in about 10 hours game 
 play I have had only 1 crash to desktop.
  
  The story is not half as bad as it's made out to be, just the main character is to dumb to figure 
 it out when by the 3rd chapter you know exactlly whats going on. But the most important aspect 
 of the game, is the fact its fun to play. The game engine allows for some pretty cool ways to kill 
 the bad guys. Kicking them of ledges and down stairs to watch the rag-dolls bounce in painfull 
 ways never gets old. The game does have good replay value as the point system for the character 
 makes you focus on certains skills, enabling you to use certain weapons and miss out on others.
 
  
  I have not patched my game yet and am running retail limited edition out of the box. I have no 
 idea why the Gamespot review for this game is so low.
  I have not seen half of the issues that were pointed out in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah of Might and Magic doesnt have much in common with the Might and Magic strategy games. 
 Its more of a spiritual successor to the 2002 cult classic Arx Fatalis, a quality first person 
 RPG by the same developer (Arkane Studios) . If you were hoping for the next Arx Fatalis, however, 
 then you are going to be let down. Dark Messiah isnt much of a role-playing game. Its a tightly 
 linear action game thats focused heavily on combat, so much that it has more in common with a 
 first person shooter than most role playing games. The game does not compare favorably with a great 
 FPS either though, because the fantasy weapons in the game are rather clumsy and the highlights 
 in combat are limited to a few gimmicks. It has its moments, and its a unique action game, but 
 if youre looking for a great RPG, youll be disappointed.
  
  The game starts up (immediately after the Ubisoft logo screen) with a dramatic reading of an ancient 
 prophecy that sets the stage for the games story. I cant tell you what it says, because I have 
 never had the patience to sit through it all or read it, and that is because it is mind-numbingly 
 boring. To be blunt, the games setting and characters are totally derivative, and the story is 
 drek. Its as if the story were written by a computer algorithm called fantasy story generator, 
 and it spit out generic names like the city of Stonehelm, an artifact called The Skull of Shadows, 
 and a main character called Sareth. The game has the usual cast of fantasy characters like humans, 
 orcs, goblins, and undead, and they all fulfill their stereotypical roles in the game. Dark Messiah 
 is not the only game in recent memory to fall back on traditional fantasy conventions. However, 
 other games like Gothic, Arx Fatalis, Divine Divinity, and Baldurs Gate have still crafted unique 
 worlds out of these ordinary building blocks. Dark Messiah fails in this regard. The Might and 
 Magic universe, if this game is any indication, is wholly uninteresting.
  
  The blandness of Dark Messiahs story is a problem, because the game appears to be genuinely trying 
 to provide a quality, story-driven experience. The amount of time telling the games story isnt 
 insignificant. There are a lot of story sequences and conversations that act a lot like cut scenes. 
 Instead of enhancing the action by providing a sense of purpose though, they just get in the way 
 of bloodying up your sword and kicking enemies in the gut.
  
  Combat is undoubtedly the centerpiece of Dark Messiah. The games shallow role-playing system provides 
 some simple variety in how you go about killing things, but not much else. Youve got melee skills, 
 archery skills, magic, and stealth. You can choose what skills to develop, but in general, melee 
 combat is the bread and butter of the game. Another major part of the gameplay involves solving 
 simple puzzles, and navigating challenges that are puzzles in disguise (like a scripted chase scene 
 early in the game) . The level design is fairly mundane and it generally falls back on ordinary 
 conventions for first person shooters. It also has some jumping puzzles, a convention that seems 
 to have died out years ago, but thankfully, none of them are hard.
  
  The game is mostly won or lost with your sword and shield, and thats a problem, because the swordplay 
 is clunky and frustrating. Enemies seem to have an unfair advantage when they fight you, since 
 their weapons can miss you by five feet and still register a hit. Your own melee weapons, on the 
 other hand, have terrible accuracy, even at point blank range against a stunned opponent. Your 
 sword doesnt always land where your targeting reticule is, and if you miss your enemy by a centimeter, 
 you wont register a hit. Its impossible to execute any kind of power strike or special move with 
 any kind of consistency. I cant tell you how many times I went up to a helpless enemy, pointed 
 right at him, took a big slash with my sword and totally whiffed. Movement keys generally control 
 what kind of power strike you will use. For example, holding down the attack key and the right 
 movement key will cause your arm to make a powerful slash from right to left. Unfortunately, while 
 youre holding down the movement key, you also may move out of range from your enemy and miss. 
 Meanwhile, he can hit you from five feet away because your shield is down and because of the lousy 
 hit detection. Are you starting to see the problem here? This game really should have had an option 
 for third person melee combat with some kind of smart targeting or lock-on feature. Dark Messiah 
 is, at its heart, a melee combat game, and since the melee is not fun, it dooms the game.
  
  Since its hard to dispatch any more than about one or two enemies with conventional weapons, 
 you will have to rely on the other techniques that the game provides for you. To its credit, this 
 area is where it really shines. The levels in the game provide you with boundless opportunities 
 for using objects in the environments to set traps or kill bad guys with. No game has ever accomplished 
 this feat to the same extent as Dark Messiah. It is because of this feature that the game is worth 
 playing, even through its rough spots. Enemies tend to attack you in groups of four or more, so 
 relying on the environment to defeat them is necessary for completing the game. You have a powerful 
 kick that can blow enemies backwards into various hazards, such as spikes, water, or the edges 
 of cliffs. It is far easier to dispatch with enemies by kicking them than it is to stab them to 
 death. It is also immensely satisfying. Equally satisfying is the feeling that you get when you 
 pick up a barrel and crack it over somebodys head, another attack that is far more reliable and 
 powerful than any of your regular weapons. Generally, anything that isnt tied down can be picked 
 up and thrown as a weapon. Last, but not least, there are all sorts of areas where slashing or 
 kicking wooden supports will cause a structure to come crashing down, and along with it, a few 
 barrels, a big statue, or a gigantic piece of a wall. Anyone unfortunate enough to be caught under 
 the debris is mauled by it. Luring enemies under a bunch of barrels and then collapsing a structure 
 on top of them is something that never gets old.
  
  I followed this game since its announcement, and I was never really impressed by how it looked 
 in the screenshots. When I started up the game though, I was mildly surprised by how attractive 
 it is. The game has a wide variety of indoor and outdoor environments, all of which have gorgeous 
 texture work and excellent lighting. Even up close, the textures look intricately detailed and 
 realistic (albeit rather flat) . The game makes great use of a full color palette and has some very 
 nice art direction. The animation is very impressive in some areas, especially on the huge boss 
 monsters like a vicious dragon and a gigantic Cyclops. The visuals are not perfect though. When 
 you get up close to objects and enemies, you can see that they have pretty low polygon counts, 
 and the game doesnt make much use of DirectX9 besides pretty water. Graphics are not the major 
 selling point for the game, but if you have a moderate to high end system, you should be pleased 
 with what you see.
  
  The audio for the game is also of decent quality, and generally does a good job of facilitating 
 the games action. The voiceover cast is pretty good, given that they dont have much great material 
 to work with. The generic enemies in the game are well-voiced and provide some entertaining moments, 
 although their sound bites do get rather repetitive. Weapon sounds are rather ordinary, and so 
 is the generic fantasy soundtrack that kicks in during combat.
  
  Dark Messiah of Might and Magic has some bright moments, and it has enough unique moments to separate 
 it from just about any other game out there. However, the game is ultimately a disappointment, 
 given Arkanes previous work and the promise of using the Source engine. Its a shallow RPG that 
 is focused primarily on combat, and since the bread-and-butter of combat isnt very good, the game 
 is merely above average. Given the shortage of great single player RPGs on the market, the decision 
 to make this game a first person swordfighter is a disappointment. The painfully generic fantasy 
 setting and mundane level design dont add much to a game whose core gameplay is moderately fun 
 but flawed. Should you play Dark Messiah of Might and Magic? If youre looking for a great RPG 
 (or even a good one) , then you should probably pass. If you want to try a unique first person action 
 game and you can find it in the bargain bin, it might be worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lamb_Jalfrezi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  GS have really done a disservice to this game. This is an engaging game with great combat mechanics, 
 a decent storyline, good production values and fun multiplayer.
  The combat is responsive and innovative and greatly encourages the use of the environment to get 
 the upper hand. Magic effects are attractive and powerful and the stealth mode adds yet another 
 suite of tactical choices.
  Multiplayer, while taking a while to get the hang of, is well designed with good balance between 
 the classes. It could use a few more maps, but there is a good choice of game modes, with Crusade, 
 in which you attempt to push a team back through a series of matches to reach their stronghold 
 the most entertaining and challenging. All in all, a whole heap of first-person fun and since it 
 is now available at a discount rate, I would definitely recommend it to action game fans who missed 
 it the first time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarbandu
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  After the mixed (or even dire) reviews given this game when it was first released, I thought it 
 best to wait until the price had dropped and the necessary patches had been released. Now that 
 I have played Dark Messiah I have to say its a fun game and deserves a second look from anyone 
 who was unhappy with it upon the initial release.
  
  In many ways Messiah reminds me of a Thief game - on steroids. The first-person perspective, 
 the nicely detailed quasi-medieval setting, and the combat mechanisms are all reminiscent of how 
 the gameplay went in the Looking Glass / Ion Storm Austin games. You have access to healing potions, 
 rope arrows, fire arrows, and even gas arrows. The stealth aspect of the game isnt as well-developed 
 as in the Thief series, it is mainly a broad-daylight melee combat type of a game after all, but 
 there is plenty here to enjoy despite the games comparatively short length. In fact, I think all 
 Thief fans should give Messiah a look, because there is much here that will appeal to them.
  
  The developers clearly put a great deal of thought into making the Source engines physics 
 applicable to a melee combat scenario. While you can suffer if you try running into every fight 
 looking to hack n slash, there are always rewards for the player who investigates things prior 
 to launching an attack. Whether its kicking enemies off high places, backstabbing, or releasing 
 prisoners in order to have them fight for you, just about every encounter offers some cerebral 
 approaches to victory.
  
  With the patch installed I didnt encounter more than two or three bugs- minor ones involving some 
 looped sound effects when loading a level, or clipping problems forcing a restart (this kind of 
 thing happened in the Thief series on an irregular basis) . I played on an Athlon 3700+ (2.2 GHz) , 
 2 GB RAM, with a GeForce 6800, and I had no problems with frame rate slowdowns or crashes to the 
 desktop.
  
  The game is not without its problems; much like in the Thief games, there are clipping and stuck-on-object 
 problems that, particularly during combat, can cause frustration. The camera angles can occasionally 
 be a hindrance, and when one has some spells equipped (such as Fireball) , the graphical display 
 of flames and light, while pretty, tends to obscure your center-view. And the final Boss Battle 
 offers little more than repetitious spell-casting and circle-strafing. But these are not showstopping 
 defects, and with some patience most players will learn to deal with them without too much trouble. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaremathras
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  If you have a weak PC, don't bother even looking at this game, if you have an average PC, don't 
 look at this game either. This game will take about 2 minutes to load half a level, therefore, 
 when you launch it, it'll take 2 minutes to load the menu, another 2 minutes to load the level, 
 and 2 more to load the items you have. Also the combat is very irritating, because the weapons 
 aren't that helpful, and neither are the spells. It'll take about 1 minute to kill each soldier 
 that attacks you, and you'll definitely take damage, and you don't heal; the only way you can replenish 
 your health is by eating, and you usually don't have an extra hunk of bread on you, so you usually 
 go through about 3 enemies till you die. When you die, you must load your game, which takes about 
 2 minutes, so overall in an hour you you sit at a loading screen for about 40 minutes, fight/get 
 killed for 15, and actually play for 5 minutes, which is a huge let down. It brings a bad name 
 to the Might &amp; Magic series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay videos...
  
  
  http://media. putfile. com/DMM
  
  http://media. putfile. com/DMMM
  
  
  Now i never even heard of this game until the demo was 
 released and i played abit of it and didn't think it was so good so i quickly forgot about it. 
 Then the game was released and there was just a real lack of games in 2005 and 2006 so i thought 
 i'd buy it anyways and give it a shot, am i glad i did now! Maybe i just really like it because 
 i wasn't hyped about it so no real room for disappointment or maybe it's because the gameplay is 
 unique, fun and innovative!
  
  So i think many people came into the game expecting to see Elder Scrolls: Might and Magic but when 
 they saw it was a more linear styled FPS with smaller amounts of customization they were turned 
 off. I however loved the fact that they done a proper fantasy styled FPS with real interactive 
 and fun melee/magic combat. The story could be better and i'm not going to lie there because it 
 is your standard cheesey FPS storyline thats just to move you along but it still works.
  
  The combat is the games strongest point which is really good because you can mix and match skills 
 and do w/e you want without having to restart the game. I myself went the way of being a melee 
 warrior because your strong and usually the easiest thing to do with little micromanagment. I loved 
 how engaging the combat was and the animations of it were fantastic. You could get into grapples 
 and stuff and take them head on or your could use the enviroment or you could sneak up on them 
 or even take them out long range with magic or your bow. I personally loved kicking them off cliffs 
 or into objects and i loved using the magic.
  
  Magic in DMM&M is like (if you played Bioshock) and much better version of Plasmids and they're 
 more interactive and fun to use. I love for example the spell where you could make them super small 
 and stamp on them or spray ice on the floor and have them trip over and fall down stairs into spikes 
 lol. It's just soo fun playing around with all the spells.
  
  The levels are fantastic and designed very well and all in all the game will last you around 10 
 hours which is longer than i was expecting. Whats good about this is with Dark Messiah it doesn't 
 make you feel bored with being too long or cheated with feeling too short. As i had no expectations 
 i was pleasantly suprised. I really loved the chase level where your chasing a goblin over rooftops 
 of a town/city, it's quite fun and a nice change of pace which it kinda makes it feel like a first 
 person platformer for that level lol.
  
  The music is good but not GREAT and the sound effects were fantastic so that really lifts up the 
 sound side of things. You'll never feel disappointed with any of it and really makes you feel like 
 your fighting with your weapons and just such great effects.
  
  The multiplayer aswel is very great and i loved it to bits because it's different. Basically got 
 2 modes one where you capture a flag or the other where you capture points similar to BF2. Also 
 you'll gain levels which wont have any effect on speed or health or anything like that but just 
 give you 1 point per level to spend on items that'll enhance you like be able to fire 3 arrows 
 at a time instead of 1 but this makes accuracy worse. Things like more damage or more armor or 
 different spells etc etc. So it's a skill based FPS multiplayer game where these unlocks are to 
 just help you or look kool rather than make you overpowered.
  
  All in all i'd say it's a fantastic game with great graphics and great art direction and just a 
 great overall gaming experience well worth the price of 10 it is now. It's very fun and a real 
 change of pace for recent FPs games so give it a try. Also i don't understand all these tech problems 
 that people are having, because i played form start to finish in with not one crash or problem 
 with all graphics maxed out using only 1 gb ram. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkalla
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Overall Dark Messiah of Might and Magic is a decent game. You can tell right from the get-go that 
 DMoMM was a really ambitious project trying to make the first-person perspective feel like a *real* 
 first-person-perspective. Things like your POV tilting and shifting as you jump and fight, running 
 leaps feeling real, and getting thrown like an orc throwing your POV all over the place as you 
 would expect.
  
  Honestly they did a fairly good job pulling it off. I'd also say kicking people off of cliffs, 
 into spikes and so on was hugely satisfying because when you had a kick like that, the game auto-boosts 
 the physics of your kick by like 10x, so they go flying normally.
  
  Luckily I waited to play this game longer after the last set of patches game out for it and made 
 it suck a whole lot less.
  
  The *real* disappointed of this game, the one that makes it a bit of a drag is the shallowness 
 of the story. There is the making of a good story in this game and you like the characters but 
 there just isn't enough of them.
  
  Also the game got an M-rating because of the gore, and instead of carrying that further with your 
 relationships with the characters (more mature conversations, relationships, etc.) your conversations 
 with the NPCs pretty much stays shallow and unfufilling.
  
  That's not to say I want to see NPCs full on getting it on, but the mere fact that I got to the 
 end of the game, where you have to make a choice between the good girl and the bad girl and I was 
 unable to make the choice and ended up choosing the bad girl out of the sheer fact that she had 
 slightly more endearing comments during the game. I normally wouldn't play like this (I usually 
 pick the good route in a game) but it dawned on me towards the end that ultimately I didn't give 
 a **** about *any* of these characters.
  
  The graphics, sound and voice acting are impressive at times. The outdoor scenes and some of the 
 bigger maps look nice, they did a good job there. Unfortunately you spend an *inordinate* amount 
 of time inside crypts... not just in-doors, but specifically inside crypts... with the undead that 
 are incredibly unsatisfying to murder.
  
  For some reason the developers made the undead more powerful than most any other bad guy you fight 
 in the game, being able to take hit after hit after hit. If they had simply added *more* undead, 
 and made them gib like crazy when you swung at them with swords, the crypt-exclusive experience 
 would instantly be 10x more satisfying.
  
  Unfortunately, due to some of the really long crypt sequences, lack of passion or depth in your 
 relationships with the other characters and some quake-esque strafing required for the sword battles 
 I couldn't really recommend this game to anyone. If you already owned it, I'd say go ahead and 
 play it, but if you are trying to figure out if you should buy it or not... it's nothing special.
 
  
  DEVELOPER SUGGESTIONS:
  Ok since I made some knocks against the game, I better back them up with some suggestions, so here 
 goes:
  
  * Make the interactions with the NPCs longer and more complex. I'm not saying a conversation system 
 like KOTOR, but just give me more back story, and more time with the characters. As it stands I 
 could care less if any of them died, and when they ask me to *do* stuff, I really don't want to 
 do it ;)
  
  * You already got an M-rating, make the relationships more mature/sexual/revealing with the NPCs. 
 You hint at it like crazy with innuendos that are suitable for a T-rated game, but you got the 
 M, go give us more to deal with. Make us fall in love with one of the NPCs so at the end when we 
 have to pick one, we actually care.
  
  * Make battle more gory. Make the undead take a few hits and gib like crazy. Don't make the baddies 
 circle-strafe you so much during a sword fight, it felt like Halo. * Allow the kick to be charged, 
 so you can **** someone to hell if you wanted.
  
  * A shield-smash would be cool during battle if you didn't want to kick someone to startle them.
 
  
  * Similar to embedding your sword in the cyclops's eye to kill it, it would be cool when you do 
 a power-thrust, if the blade embedded in your enemy and you could kick them off your sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxPayneJr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  I was almost instantly addicted to this game.
  This game puts you in the shoes of a young man named Sareth. He has been training all his life 
 in magic, stealth and combat but which one he focus's on it up to you. The game is first person, 
 which for me, is my preference because it adds a certain realism to the environments if you see 
 it without a character standing in the middle of the screen. . The story isn't amazing but it does 
 its job and keeps the story paced and fluent and sets the atmosphere for an amazing adventure (along 
 with some deep magical soundtracks) . There are parts of the game where i felt wow and impressed 
 by the richly detailed environment. Though more than one entrance path to everything would have 
 been much more involved. Sareth has a wide variety of weapon all with realistic and believable 
 (which is very important for me) combos and power strikes. Combat is the deepest part of Dark messiah 
 as a mixture of moves and environment is key to winning while a warrior may spend more time using 
 power strikes and combat, an assassin will spend more time with instant kills and ranged or environment 
 kills and a mage AoE and preparation. The enemies are amazingly versatile in combat as well. Dodging 
 your attacks, blocking, reacting accordingly to their current state and even using some of their 
 own abilities to their advantage. Though the ai could been a little better navigating itself through 
 the map. Enemies are difficult generally, to kill without stunning stabbing, kicking magic or all 
 of the above. Which is cool because it does add a certain realism because combat is more about 
 taking advantage of the situation in real life i would imagine. I would wholly recommend playing 
 an assassin of this game because there are many parts of the game that a warrior would go" eh that 
 was alright" where an assassin would use his abilities to their full potential. I myself stuck 
 to the beginning weapons of the, Short sword daggers and long bow because i felt that the when 
 i have a magical weapon that makes my right arm red and a magical shield that makes my left are 
 blue and the shield takes up the left side of the screen and the sword the right. The only thing 
 i wanted to do was just drop them both or make Sareth jump of the the edge of the cliff.
  
  All and all a great game. Though would prefer more use of realism in a fantasy game and less of 
 a digit hording game. 
  DArk messiah is an overall addicting , immersive and incredible medieval combat game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperCanel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay is extremely hard at first, but you don't have right to blame the game just because you 
 have never played such a realistic melee combat game. I have played Prince of Persia series (which 
 had the best combat scenes) , but when it comes to reality and full control this game is awesome! 
 It is not like any other games; you don't just click and sit watching how your character kills 
 monsters by himself. You really have to fight; time your blocks, break their parry, etc. That is 
 why noobs say that the game is bad. BECAUSE THEY CAN'T ACTUALLY PLAY!
  
  And everyone says the game is too easy because you can just use kicking. Then don't kick. Can't 
 you think that? And you don't know how better units react your kicks just because you can't play 
 the game and leave it in first 5 minutes.
  
  When it comes to graphics they are excellent and can be played on high settings even on cheapest 
 computers. All players aren't as rich as those of who are denigrating graphics. Don't be greedy 
 and insolent.
  
  And two patches fix all of the bug problems!
  
  This game was created using the best game engine ever! There are only little REAL problems. And 
 todays best games actually have more problems affecting the overall reality than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enesjusufi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  The characters was so well developed, The graphics was so well developed, The gameplay and story 
 is just amazing... What i liked the most is the GORE... I have never seen anything more realistic 
 gore than in this game. You can do what you want with your enemies... And i love that its a No 
 Noobs Allowed game... because its very hard and frustrating at first, because its realistic, the 
 enemies, the AIs are so excellent and parry your hits, are smart and can chase you and hunt you 
 whereever you are on the map and then you have to learn how to fight the weapons of your choice, 
 when to block. So i mean, most Noobs just play a game and if they cant do something at first they 
 get pissed off and leave the game and say how bad it is........... or they just come in in here 
 at Gamespot and give it a bad score.......... thats a Noob.
  
  When you learn your skills you will realise how ridicilously realistic and fun this game is, when 
 you pick up a Samurai sword and start chopping of heads of people one by one or setup some extremly 
 funny traps, the longer the game goes the more fun it is...
  
  Game reminded me alot of the movie LOTR... While playing you will feel like you are Legolas/Aragorn 
 combo.... and the enemies just get bigger and bigger and harder....
  
  What i like very much is that here you have to THINK and SNEAK and THINK and SNEAK........ Its 
 not just a game like Bioschock or some crap like that where you pick up a gun and go Berserk....... 
 In this game, you must think to survive and be very patient and wait for your skills.......... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanfuest
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Graphically it is a great game but game gets a bit boring after 5 chapter. It 's not very innovative. I 
 really wanted to buy this game because the demo looked great. But after playing the game you've 
 seen everything already in the demo. Also the difference between the weapons and upgrades is n' 
 that great. You can play the whole game without upgrading if you want without dying to much. The 
 game had a lot of possibilities but the single player campian is really disappointing. If you have 
 some playing time left over after playing all your other favorite games you could try to play it. 
 Don't forget that it asks a lot of resources from you computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Between the frequent reloads (as this is a hard game) and frustration over being stuck on terrain 
 or having the game crash (as this is a buggy game) it's easy to overlook that Dark Messiah of Might 
 and Magic does many things extremely right.
  
  The melee combat is a highly visceral mixture of different kinds of attacks, blocking, and kicking 
 foes over ledges or onto spikes that really feels like a satisfying bit of a swash on your buckle. 
 It puts Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion's melee combat to shame. The stealth aspects of the game works 
 well, with enemies restrained to realistic detection methods, and you are capable of backstabbing 
 opponents or throwing a dagger to stop one from fleeing. The magic, though limited to 12 spells, 
 is quite satisfying as each one of these spells are unique entities in their own right and some 
 can be creatively applied (e. g. freezing the ground to create an ice slick) . Adrenaline builds 
 up during combat and cumulates in an extremely powerful (usually fatal) attack complete with a 
 slow motion cinematic effect. Overall, the game play mechanics are quite advanced.
  
  The environment interactivity is also exceptional thanks, in part, to the Half-Life 2 engine used 
 by this game. The Havok physics allow realistic kicking and throwing of objects. The telekinetic 
 spell works like the gravity gun. Fires light flammable things (including bad guys) . There are 
 traps set up at certain points in the game that you can turn against your foes. Sometimes even 
 the planks in the floor may be breakable, forcing caution not to land on them too hard and also 
 being something to use against the enemies. You eventually gain the capacity to extend ropes from 
 any piece of visible wood in the game.
  
  That's about where the praise ends. Though this game takes a good step forward, issues both technical 
 and design related force it two steps back. The main technical issue is an unfortunate tendency 
 to get stuck on the terrain. Sometimes you'll grab onto a rope a little too close to the wall and 
 end up going through the wall, resulting in a fatal fall through the world. The developers were 
 overly fond of jumping puzzles, resulting in many a frustrating demise. Melee is decidedly much 
 more effective than a stealth or magic focused character. Normal difficulty is about as hard as 
 the game should be, with the hard and harder difficulties actually being quite frustrating. Players 
 wishing to make progress through this buggy and unusually balanced game will have to be ever-ready 
 with the quicksave and quickload buttons.
  
  The single player campaign only takes about 9 hours to complete (longer on high difficulties due 
 to frequent reloading) but is a fun romp while it lasts. Multiplayer is an interesting class-based 
 experience, a capture point game that is quite different from the campaign, but (like many less 
 popular FPS with a multiplayer option) you may be hard pressed to find other people actually playing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike1231234567
Rating: 5.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah Might and Magic is, as everyone knows, the most bugged game ever to be soled on the 
 market. But according to some people the demo doesnt have any buggs in it atoll. I havnt played 
 the demo but i have completed the full version a few times through the frustration of the bugs, 
 bugs and even more bugs. Now im no game critic but, Dark Messiah is one of the games that u have'to 
 kill to play, A. K. A. Getting to the last level and completing it through anything. Dark Messiah 
 is one of the last games in the Might and Magic siries exg: Heroes of might and magic, might and 
 magic ect. In Dark Messiah you are a bloke called Sareth, who is trained in the arts of Warfare 
 and Magic by Master Phenrig a powerful wizard. You then set out into the world of Ashan, fighting 
 Orcs, Black Guards, Undead Dragons, goblins and other creatures, to complete youre mission of finding 
 the Skull of Shadows. You are helped by Xana, a she demon who is fuzed to youre soul. You are then 
 accomonied by Leanna (the most annoying girl ever) who is supposed to die about twice during the 
 game. Despite all the hype and excitement, this game is a total let down because of all the bugs. 
 I wouldnt reccomend this for any old pc, get it on 360, hopefully that wont have any bugs aswell... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Many people have complained about the way this game runs and that it has many bugs. I found not 
 one bug or problem while playing it. I enjoyed the graphics and the way the game played out more 
 than some other hyped games that I will not mention. The game isn't perfect but what game is? If 
 you like FPS games and RPG games give it a try... I don't think you will be disappointed.
  
  The game is immersive and really gives you the feeling you are the one fighting the orcs and might 
 just slip over the mountain cliff to your death.
  
  I love the sound and cutscenes they are done very nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mimo_90
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  In the beggining you might think its a nice game, i bought it coz i thought it was sth like oblivion 
 but boy was i wrong : ( . the story is stupid the endings are lame the sound isnt that nice the 
 graphics are not that good i regret buying, playing it i just gave it 4.8 because the spells looks 
 nice and that is the only thing that is good in this game. the fighting is the same you might be 
 overwhelmed by enemies but there spikes and fires everywhere so all u have to do is keep kicking 
 and the skill points doesnt unlock all the abilities like i thought. and im not going to play a 
 game like this again to see all the abilities . i think that only the spells (the way they look) 
 should be a mod to oblivion along side the kick. anyways it might be good if u havent played sth 
 like oblivion or diablo before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game very much. The graphics are excellent, and the levels are huge. Character development 
 is good with lots of choices between pure warrior, mage, thief or a combination of all of the above.
 
  
  I finished the game as a thief/archer and I enjoyed it very much. Many have complained about game 
 crashes and bugs. I ran into none of these problems. I have a fairly powerful gaming PC, so maybe 
 many people were trying to play with settings above the capabilities of their system. My rig contains 
 a Core Duo E6600 overclocked to 3.0Ghz, 3Gigs of RAM and a 8800 GTX 768mb.
  
  The atmosphere and level design is excellent. There could of been a little more refinement with 
 the melee combat. But because I played as an archer, the melee wasn't bad because picking people 
 off with headshots elimnated most melee. Also using stealth produces a great backstab instant kill. 
 Additionally using the rope arrows allows you to escape to higher levels on buildings, etc and 
 pick off the bad guys below.
  
  AI is fairly weak and is probably the biggest shortcoming in the game. The story is typical and 
 really didn't bother me, or disappoint too much either.
  
  Other than that, I enjoyed this game very much. I hope there is a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jowell91
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah is a first person action adventure game, it uses the Source Engine to power it, it 
 came out in 2006 and is based around single player.
  It has a dungeons and dragons type theme to it and contains alot elements of an RPG game.
  
 
  Theres lots of fun weapons in the game, most of the combat is melle based with swords and that, 
 but if you choose, you can have a Bow or use Spells, or even just kick your opponents and watch 
 them go flying off of roofs and that, which is quite fun. So there is veriety to be found in the 
 combat. You will also gain experience points throughout the game which you can use to strengthen 
 your weapons or spells, or general skills in the game.
  
  Graphicly its mediocre, my pc is crap so I run it on medium setting. Theres glitches and you can 
 see alot of lighting and shading effects gone wrong, alot of the textures are flat and ugly, however 
 when the game is functioning right there are some very pretty bits in the game, its not all bad, 
 there is alot of atmosphere too. I cant say too much about the sound because I play music most 
 of the time lol, but the weapon sounds are satisfying and I had no probkems with the sound.
  
  The game lasts quite long aslong as you dont rush through it, there are cutscenes and other 
 things to space out the action, aswell as special bits where you have to chase people and use catupults 
 instead of just attacking eminies normally.
  
  The game has alot of problems and is far from amazing, just dont even think about messing with 
 the graphics settings while in game, I had to restart my PC, expect there to be errors, however 
 I do like this game, it has alot of charm and I cant help but forgive it when it messes me about. 
 So in the end, I would reccomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assbiotch
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I never ever encountered ONE glitch on the game, so I don't know what people are 
 complaining about. I bought the game in the box, and Steam updated it to the latest patch. It might 
 be glitchy on the Non-Steam version, but on Steam, it runs perfectly fine.
  
  The graphics and physics are amazing in this game. The game is mostly indoors, so don't let that 
 demo fool you. Character development is pretty limited, but fun to see the effects of. For example, 
 you can use much better swords when you enhance your Strength or Critical Hit attribute. It's a 
 very much simplified development system. The physics are very good, and that is where this game 
 beats Oblivion. The physics. The ability to kick someone into spikes, or off a cliff, is very cool 
 to do. For example, I kicked an orc off a very high wooden platform, up in the mountains, and a 
 pile of crates were behind him. He went flying into the crates, breaking most of them, and a wooden 
 log as a fence also broke. The impact slowed down the orc's speed, but he still had enough speed 
 to indeed fall off. It was cool to look down and see the orc, around alot of peices of wood. It 
 looked very dramatic. Ofcourse, you get to do that alot in the game, but again, the game is mostly 
 indoors, so you get to kick them into spikes 70% of the time, or into water, which leads me to 
 mentioning a pet peeve. There's a level in the game where you have to defend a ship around some 
 docks. The enemy rushes at the ship, and I found that the number 1 defending technique that worked 
 the best, was kicking them down into the water. Okay, great, I made them fall 2 feet into the water. 
 Now what? Well, apparently, they die. Somehow. It's like the water was acidic or something.. they 
 just die.
  
  But that's a very minimal pet peeve, so it shouldn't affect you much. I mean, hell, it's an advantage 
 to you. The sound is pretty good. It's always funny to hear the remarks of your head... well, a 
 woman inside of your head... you'll find out if you buy the game. The story line is the only bad 
 part I found. Your options are very limited. Here and there, you might find that they give you 
 an optional mission to do, such as going into a door and fighting some ogre. That's it. You don't 
 get to make big decisions like you can in Oblivion. Speaking of Oblivion, this game also has NO 
 free time. You can't go around and roam-there isn't anything to roam around. The loading times 
 are pretty similar to Half Life 2's loading times: 1 way to go, always, and you know you're going 
 in the right place if it says LOADING , unless you are going backwards, which isn't always possible.
 
  
  The storyline is also pretty short. It only took me 3 days to finish the game. Overall, it was 
 nice to play. Worth buying now? If you can get it for a cheap price. If you can only get it for 
 40 bucks at where you live, I say wait until it goes pretty cheap. I don't think it was worth the 
 50 bucks I spent. Just stick with Oblivion if you already have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SneakyRandy
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to love this game. I really did. The graphics even by today's (07/15/07) standard are 
 still very good.
  
  BUT FOR THE LOVE!!! I ve NEVER had a glitchier game in my LIFE. How it still costs $40 for a new 
 copy at the moment is beyond me. The game was so glitchy, it would crash when I'd quicksave, load 
 a level, enter a new level, quickload and sometimes it would crash just for the fun of it. And 
 don't think I have a crappy system either. On the contrary.
  
  I'm running Duo Core 2.4
  4 Gigs of Ram
  8800 GTS video card
  
  All problems with this game are program related ONLY. 
 What a pile of garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah is a great game and has a simple yet interesting story. The graphics are a lot like 
 Oblivion and the music is really nice as well yet this game, to be fair should not have been released 
 yet purely because it has way to many bugs to be able to play this game with complete satisfaction. 
 Of coarse the fighting and challenges you have to go through are exiting and keeps you with the 
 game but with the amount of bugs in it, they should have work on getting rid of the bugs before 
 releasing this game. Another slight disappointment in Dark Messiah is that the game is very short 
 and with all fairness this game is worth more to play then the few hours that you play it. Dark 
 Messiah is a game defiantly worth playing but with to many bugs and not enough game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karrasxk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I got this game at Target after they marked it down to $4.98. Now, I wasn't expecting anything 
 amazing, especially after reading the Gamespot review. First off the story is unoriginal, but it 
 has it's finer points. The whole concept of a female voice guiding and/or giving you mission feedback 
 is done waaaay too much these days. Though, having it occur through a demonic possession was a 
 nice twist. The rest of the story is standard fare and can quickly be forgotten. The Graphics were 
 well above average. I was impressed with the textures and the water especially. Your weapons can 
 obstruct viewing far too much in first person. I found it extremely annoying when I had a fancy 
 glowing weapon taking up most of the screen. The enemies you will be fighting could have used a 
 bit more variety.
  
  The sound was unremarkable and the fact that the video volume was unaffected by the main volume 
 slider left me startled/half deaf.
  
  The level design leaned far too heavily on the use of the rope bow. Can't figure out where to go? 
 Reached a dead end? Look up and shoot the freakin' rope bow. The idea of the rope bow (First featured 
 in Thief, if I remember correctly) is a great idea in practice. It's fun to try to make your own 
 short cuts or use a quickly placed rope arrow to climb to safety from a horde of enemies. But, 
 when taken to this level the game could have easily been renamed Dark Messiah of Climb and Magic 
 .
  
  Now, let me express my supreme hatred for the zombies. Expect to be poisoned during every single 
 encounter with a zombie. They blow poison smoke at you as a ranged attack and even if you spend 
 some skill points to increase your resistance it will not change much. When poisoned, your health 
 will continue to drain while an annoying green color hazes your vision. Your health will drain 
 until you have 1 or 2 HP left and then you will be healed! Amazing! On top of this there are zombies 
 everywhere and not nearly enough antidotes to go around. This ruined the game for me, and rather 
 than just stop playing altogether, I just threw on the cheats to give me unlimited skill points. 
 Now even with every single skill in the game and all the best gear I was still poisoned left and 
 right ::grumble:: Also, the placement of spikes for you to kick things into all over was pretty 
 sad.
  
  The demon power you get towards the end is useless. The ending wasn't very exciting but still a 
 satisfying finish. Overall, I say the poison should have been removed during the play test period 
 and playing with the color palate could have added a bit of variety to the enemies.
  
  Not much can be said for the uninteresting story. Yet, it was still better then most of the crap 
 being pushed into the market these days. Worth a play if you can get it at a decent price ;)
  
  --
  
  I had broken the first giant paragraph into multiple sections, but it keeps grouping 
 together so I gave up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comof1stplatun
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Looking at Dark Messiah of Might and Magic as what it is, which is a great budget game for its 
 20$ price-tag, you definitely won't be disappointed. However don't expect to spend more then 20 
 hours playing the singleplayer game. If your computer can handle this games graphics on maximum 
 settings, it's a great game. The graphics on most games tend to get the most attention, and this 
 game is no exception. The sword-fighting in Dark Messiah is done extremely well, if a little easy, 
 and is quick to learn. The sound is great and appropriately creepy in narrow corridors and dark 
 areas, and action-packed in bright areas and boss battles. The story is easy to predict but it 
 is still fun to see how everything unfolds. The replayability takes a hit for its linear storyline 
 but the game does have 4 different endings depending on decisions you've made. Pushing aside the 
 glitches that pop-up in the game, and its short linear storyline, Dark Messiah of Might and Magic 
 is still a great game to add to your collection for its budget price. On a side note the multi-player 
 was not experienced at the time of this review, so the rating is only applied to the singleplayer 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolvinedragon
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  When I purchased Dark Messiah, I was expecting a graphically rich game that would put some test 
 on my computer system. I was not disappointed that I could make the graphics tax even my nvidia 
 7950GT cards in SLI configuration. Problems getting the game to load properly, levels not loading 
 at all (crashing to desktop) , large memory leaks in certain levels, and nonexistent developer or 
 provider support on the forums or email made this game a headache to play. The only reason I was 
 able to complete it was due to my own technical and programming experience as well as other player's 
 advice submitted on the forums. The only response I ever got via email was that Ubisoft does not 
 nor will ever support windows Vista for this game, even though I stated that I am having problems 
 on my XP machine as well. I must say this game is a dust collector unless your system is lucky 
 enough to not trigger the many glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nzilla
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  On the surface this looks like an interesting game. It starts out interesting. Somewhere along 
 the way however it goes from interesting to what, this is it? 
  I hate to give this game such a low rating, I really do. It had so much potential. It just didn't 
 deliver. The game is uninspired to say the least. Limited weapons really hurt the game play, though 
 the unique way you fight with all of them is refreshing. However, some of them require unhelpful 
 stats. Speaking of which, if you love to specialize, this game is for you. If you like to do several 
 things at once, good luck. This game punishes those who like to do a bit of everything, forcing 
 you to cheat if you don't want your head on a platter. The real big game killer was that on my 
 version the sound didn't even work. Oh, I got the twang of the bow and the clank of sword on shield, 
 but I didn't get any voices. That really irritated me. Hard to comment on the story if you have 
 no idea what the story is. I had to figure it out on my own.
  Not that all is bad. This game has a lot of potential. Some of the weapons are elementally imbued 
 with certain spells. Like setting giant spiders on fire? There's a sword for that. No magic needed. 
 In fact, part of the fun of this game is setting all sorts of things on fire. I like to start fires 
 and then throw the corpses of my enemies into it and watch them burn. Yeah, you can do that. I 
 thought that was wicked cool.
  This game also sports the same physics engine as Half-Life 2. it's great for chucking stuff, using 
 telekinesis, or kicking people. Kicking is a surprisingly effective weapon. Hate fighting orcs? 
 Kick em off a high place. they'll go flying. Don't have a high place? Not to worry! This game offers 
 an unending supply of conveniently placed spiky things to kick them into for one hit kills. Trust 
 me, kicking is the ultimate weapon of this game. It should be named kick that .
  There are some other features in the game. At one point you get the ability to transform into a 
 demon form which is completely and totally useless. Hurray! Useless transformation! Hooyah! It's 
 just sad.
  With great graphics, a good physics engine, and the entertainment of kicking things and then setting 
 them on fire, what's not to like? An uninspired and more often than not dull storyline, linear 
 game play, and the most uninspired let down worst ending I've ever seen. There's four endings and 
 they all suck. Oh, did i mention it has a tendency to crash? Oh yeah. You don't know when it's 
 coming, but you auto-save like crazy because of the fear of basically an instant death from nothing. 
 If you like setting things on fire and kicking things, you could get it if you wanted, but just 
 go get Half life 2. You'll be better off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah Might and Magic is a first person fantasy action RPG from Ubisoft that draws many 
 inspirations from Elder Scolls 4 Oblivion. Find out how it does in this review.
  
  Gameplay: The best thing about this game is the combat and all the different ways in which you 
 can dispatch your enemies. Go in full attack, sneak up on them and stab them in the neck, push 
 them off ledges, shoves them into spikes, set them on fire, blast them with magic, cut their limbs 
 off and more. The way you can kill enemies is very varied. There's also some platforming which 
 is used well in a thrilling chase sequence in the third level of the game when you're chasing after 
 an imp who has stolen a crystal that you need to recover. There are no character classes, you just 
 upgrade your skills and you can be anything. A big warrior who can sneak about or a mage or loves 
 to also decapitate people. It's great fun to experiment in this game!
  
  Graphics: If you have a machine that's up to the job the game looks beautiful. The effects and 
 textures as well as the amazing physics all look brilliant. The animations are also superb especially 
 of the enemies when you kick them off a ledge or decapitate them. The only problem is that the 
 performane can suffer occassionally because of some terrible bugs. Most of these can be fixed by 
 installing tha patch but you can still suffer from slowdown even if you meet the reccommeded system 
 requirements.
  
  Sound: A great soundtrack supports the on-screen action as well as some excellent sound effects 
 from the sound of blood being released from someone's decapitated head or an enemies scream gradually 
 getting quieter as they fall of a ledge into the abyss. The voice acting is also decent too.
  
  Value: The story mode is meant to be of a decent length and there's also some pretty fun multiplayer 
 modes to get into. Works a lot like a Battlefield game but with magic and melee weapons-pretty 
 fun.
  
  Overall this is a fantastic game that is only let down by some horrible bugs that can sometimes 
 plague your experince. However as I said earlier, if you can't get Oblivion then this is the next 
 best thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeonghost
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 3, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah wraps a dull story around repetitive combat. It's not a bad game, but its technical 
 glitches really bring it down. I feel this couldnt be farther from the truth and i almost didnt 
 play this game because of a lot of similar reviews. Its true its more of an adventure game in the 
 style of thief rather than oblivion. But its still a very fun very immersive game and the storylines 
 not all that cliche like they claim either. I honestly get kinda sick of all these big review sites 
 giving these half A** reviews that over analyze EVERYTHING in so much detail its like you cant 
 see the forest for the trees. Anyways this is a really fun game and you should at least try it 
 befor you write it off as just average. Its far from just average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah was supposed to be one of the best games of late 2006. I was waiting for this title 
 for months and months to be released, and after viewing the superb launch trailer I wanted to play 
 this game more and more. So how good it is? Hmm, let's go step by step.
  
  Graphics. Source engine is undoubtedly one of the best technologies developed in couple of recent 
 years. It looks really good and at the same time works fine even on weaker computers. Still I was 
 a bit concerned about it in DK as I have in memory the badly optimized V: TM - Bloodlines . Fortunately 
 DK works on Source pretty well, perhaps due to cooperation with Valve. There is only one seriously 
 irritating thing about it - loading times. I have a low end PC and I can't say that playing DK 
 with little amount of memory is always a pleasure. Loading times between chapters seem to last 
 forever and loading times within them take simply too long. In HL2 it is like 10 seconds or something 
 and here... :/ Besides that the game works and looks very nice. There are some bugs on certain 
 graphic cards (yes, on mine of course) with i. e. playing cinematics or some spell effects but you 
 know, there are patches that fix most of this problems.
  
  Sound. As I have only a stereo speakers and common sound card I can't say much about the sound. 
 In my opinion it's just ok, all sounds fit quite good to all the actions that take place in the 
 world of the game. Music is really nice, very fantasy-like. There could be more of it, but it's 
 okay anyway. And last but not least, voice acting. This element of the game is very good. All of 
 the voices fit just right to their characters and sound pretty good. I especially liked performance 
 of actress playing the character of Xana, Moon Dailly I think is her name. What a magic name, don't 
 you think? ;) Maybe only the voice of Demon Sovereign is somehow too low, and sounds like a stereotype 
 monstrous villain, which is even a bit grotesque, but maybe that's just my impression.
  
  Story. Yeah... the story... After launch trailer I thought that the story can be interesting, maybe 
 even intriguing. In that place there is a dull, predictive as hell story with a cliche dialogue 
 that we've seen in games a thousand times now. But you know, it's no RPG, it's no point-and-click 
 Myst-like adventure so developers probably thought that no one would care for a great story in 
 strictly action oriented combat game which DK in fact is. Ok, it has it's moments especially with 
 excellently made cinematics but it's just not sufficient for the whole game.
  
  Combat. This game is all about combat. Combat system is far from perfect however, even if it's 
 repetitive (because it is) it's so entertaining that it just keeps you playing all the way to the 
 grand finale... which is actually very simple. The final boss is pathetically easy to beat but 
 nevermind that. As I said, it's far from perfect, from games such as superb Blade of Darkness but 
 it's just plain fun when you cut off the head of some guardian or stab him in the back and so on. 
 Therefore DK is quite a violent game. The blood pours everywhere as we can slice the bodies of 
 our opponents as we like (with a bit of luck;) . So it's no surprise that the game was rated M for 
 Mature - oh, and as for the rating there are also couple of shots in cinematics of nude female 
 demon. There is not very much of it but as a straight guy I must admit that she's hot :D
  
  Concluding, Dark Messiah of Might and Magic has many glitches and there are things that could be 
 made a lot better but it's still a well made game that can give plenty of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah has been praised as a godlike game by a few websites, including my favorite gamingshow 
 that reviewed this game for over a nine, this game is you're average fantasy game, with a fair 
 amount of pro's and cons.
  
  Gameplay:
  Hard, if you played the demo you'll understand why, kicking enemies off ledges is a simple tactic 
 to do, but in situations you can't do it you'll be relying on lots of blocking, and finding a space 
 to attack in.
  
  Eventhough the game has RPG elements for spells and magic, you're main power is always brute force, 
 if you played the Chronicles of Riddick and liked that game, you'll find this game enjoying to, 
 because the firstperson closecombat action with RPG elements works pretty satisfying for both games.
 
  
  Though, the classes you have in the game (Archer, Mage, Assassin and Warrior) are typical, the 
 moments you level up can make you a double character, so if you want to be a archer with pyro magics? 
 or a robust warrior who can also go for a stealthy kill? So be it.
  
  Though the flaws, one of the biggest are the backpacks, you'll get a huge loot every few minutes, 
 and if you want to wear anything, it'll be a nightmare, sometimes you'll take minutes dropping 
 alot of items to pick up quest items, new weapons, armours and health flask, and oddly enough: 
 spells.
  
  Also, I'm pretty lucky because I didn't encounter the glitches in the game that kicks me out of 
 the game, so lucky me. :)
  
  The game has the source engine, which works for the graphics it has, its a shame its not using 
 the great engine for cutscenes like HL2 did, but uses scripted events.
  
  Altho, some mechanisms work out fantasticly in the game, I remember a room with a few guards standing 
 with the back towards me, I pushed down this lever and before the guards could rush at me, a huge 
 cilinder block smashed its way thru them, its fun at moments like these, but it dies of from constant 
 repetive play.
  
  Graphics:
  Metroid prime designs, monsters like orcs look rad, so do the enemies and such, the engine it uses 
 works great for long distances view, to bad the game mostly plays of indoors and rarely outside, 
 the game does look impressive tho.
  
  Story:
  You are a student of one high-ranked magician, you're teacher sent you on a quest to retrieve the 
 Shadow of Skulls, and you get it by bashing you're way thru hordes of guards, orcs and zombies.
 
  
  AI:
  Hard, there are some bosses in the game, and their pretty hard to kill, so don't worry if it doesn't 
 work the first time, orcs and guards are pretty easy is you stay by the rules, just block alot 
 and attack when you're opponent isn't, when its 2 vs 1 on the other hand, magic comes in handy, 
 magic is especially in handy in longrange, because Bow and arrow doesn't do enough damage at times, 
 the game does really have hard AI which makes it more enjoyable, but they can be easily defeated 
 by kicking them into the deepness (demo level of this game) or pushing them on spiked walls.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Its basicly UT, it even has a Double Domination level, its the basic DM and 
 TDM levels and the Double Domination, their are you're basic classes and engineers and medics, 
 so it does get alot of variety for a change afterall?
  
  Is it a good fantasy game:
  Has some flaws, but its above average and enjoyable at times, I'd get it if you have a decent computer 
 and love games like Chronicles of Riddick or everything else FPS and RPG themed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nambor100
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Single player: Dark Messiah is a game of great possibilities for the player. Allowing some variety 
 in the way you act out the story. Fair to say that it has its share of bugs and glitches but if 
 you have the hardware and a liking to this type of game then there is no problem. The game has 
 a nice and deep story-line and some good cut seens. Graphics are absolutely great and the physics 
 are something you could never look past. Its just the best thing to pull out a bow and kick some 
 orc in to a box and watch him fall whilst at the same time drawing an arrow and lighting it on 
 fire with the torch on the wall and setting it free to watch your enemy burn alive! Other little 
 details like full body awareness make the game so much better, just being able to look down and 
 oh look! There are my feet! Omg Im actually a person not a floating sword in front of a camera. 
 Multi player:
  Dark Messiah MP is a sweet extra for a great game, allowing you to take your single player skills 
 to the world and test your self in a wide range of class types and abilities. Some players may 
 already know that multi player has some problems still but is still something like a 8/10. Assassins 
 are the biggest problem in multi player as they are to overpowering but you learn to get over them
 
  
  Overall Dark Messiah might and magic is a top game and I recommend it to absolutely anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shep78
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I think who ever reviewed this game gave it a bad wrap and an even worse score. The game was fun 
 to play, the combat put oblivion to shame and the skills and powers were fun to use during the 
 duration of the story.
  
  On the bad side now... The game was VERY linear as in -here is what you need to do- -there is the 
 one way to do it- -do it or be stuck-. That being said, it doesnt take away from the fact that 
 this game is fun. I have been playing it over the past few days and I cant wait to play again 
 tonight. The lady in your head is seductive to say the least and the companion that accompanies 
 you is CUTE! ... great graphics! SO to wrap it up... Fun game with great combat, graphics, voice 
 overs, and simple story line. BUT dont forget this is NOT Oblivion, and to compare this game to 
 that is well, silly. That story is in one line and one line only so doesnt expect the hypothetical 
 novel to be written about your adventures. Worth buying... You will probably spend about 25 hours 
 playing straight on normal mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flishkin
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game, my computer was so slow I simply could not play it. I put it on the 
 shelf for a months waiting for my next PC upgrade. Now with the new PC and the latest patch, this 
 turned out to be a very enjoyable game. Somebody else mentioned this before, but this game is like 
 the action version of Oblivion (if that can be said?) . It has a very basic inventory system, and 
 a more basic skill system. But, oh boy, is fighting &amp; casting magic fun! I have not experienced 
 a FPS with such an engaging fight mechanism, especially for melee-based combat. For a fantasy-based 
 action FPS, you cant go wrong with this game. Just make sure you hardware is up to the task! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanesade
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Gave it another try:
  I tried the latest patch, and it worked better, but not for long. It got me into the game far enough 
 to see that the game would be fun if it ran for more than 15 min. at a time. ( running a quad core 
 cpu 2 gig of ram and an Nvidia 8800 gtx )
  so I don't think it's my hardware. It might be Vista though. ( what was I thinking )
  Beyond 
 that ... the story is retarded, the voice acting is embarrassing, but the visuals are great.
  The controllability of your character is a bit weird though ... you feel like you are pushing your 
 way through molasses on a rocky boat.
  Even so ... I'd play it if it wasn't so buggy
  
  Still Broken
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  I suppose I'd play this if it ran for more than 5 min. at a time.
  This game came with my Nvidia 8800gtx btw.
  I am running Vista though, and I suspect thatspart 
 of the problem along with the game being buggy as hell.
  I tried the latest patch too, made no difference.
  
  If they fix it I may change my review, 
 but I'd have to me able to PLAY IT FIRST !
  Sorry but I'm sick and tired of the release it now fix it later trend.
  
  Make it work before 
 you waste our time!
  I know i know ... this goes for Vista too. ..... ug 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkieDonkey
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 11, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This game really have a great story, graphic is excellent , game play is destroyed because of the 
 bugs, the sound is pretty good, i don't think it's worth to buy it for 50$ but i think it's worth 
 for less money (30$) .
  Well the game play is very weak because of the freaking bugs that make me goofy and crazy at the 
 same time.
  If you really like the genre of RPG like Dark Messiah please try games like Oblivion or Gothic 
 3 the best games out on the market.
  Well i know i wrote little about Dark Messiah but i hope you will read it and like it from your 
 friend (and maybe not) DorkieDonkey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFD
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah of Might and Magic-
  
  Dark Messiah really is a grat game, agreed, it has dissapointed some, but not me.
  
  The Single 
 Player in Dark Messiah really is great. It blends great Gameplay, with an extremely intriguing 
 story . The combat system is a key aspect of this game. Once you get to know it, you can improvise 
 knew combinations to make devastating attacks on furious enemies such as orc's, men, warlocks, 
 zombies, goblins and even monstrous Dragons which breathe lightning.
  
  The Story is excellent. You play as a young man, who has a bountiful skill in the arts of combt, 
 stealth and magic. His quest makes him fight the possesion of Evil... or embrace it.
  
  The graphics are excellent, and do not hesitate to get this game if you have a low end graphics 
 card because you can choose your texture quality. The game has a lot of good lighing effects and 
 textures, and a lot of epic scenes tht would not be appreciated otherwise
  
  This game has an excellent musical score, especially towards the end. The music really brings the 
 atmosphere to life.
  
  If you are a fan of medeival combat or just like this sort of game in general it is a must own 
 game. Please buy it, so there can be a sequel.
  
  NFD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mezzanne
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the gameplay trailers for this, I was really excited about it. Unfortunately, 
 the game wasn't all it was cracked up to be. But in spite of this, I still found it refreshing 
 (somewhat) and very enjoyable...
  
  Graphically, the game looks great... there're some fantastic locations and a lot of the enemies 
 are beautifully modelled. Although it seems to run somewhat badly maxed out, fairly weak computers 
 can still run it on lower settings comfortably. The gameplay is great, although slightly repetitive... 
 it's basically a good system, it just needs a little more variety in terms of level design and 
 combos and such. It really makes Oblivion feel stupid in terms of combat. But it's a lot of fun 
 in the end, and it's rather unique too. The storyline isn't actually that bad... there's a fairly 
 predictable plot twist, and the game offers some nice alternate ending. While these are fantstic 
 touches, the game really should have used more of them, and perhaps expanded on the RPG element 
 as well.
  
  Unfortunately though, the game is frustratingly buggy. I've had to make use of quicksave a lot 
 , together with exiting and reloading the game. Very pesky. Also, this game was supposed to have 
 brilliant AI but it's actually kinda crap - enemies are either too stupid in some pars (get stuck 
 around stupid obstacles) or too intelligent (fire at one with an arrow from far away, on a different 
 floor, and he finds you instantly) . What bothers me about Dark Messiah is that although it's a 
 good game, it could've been a really ****ing awesome game - it does some thing very well, but it 
 really feels as though this game has an incredible potential what was never fully realised, and 
 especially given how good the game is in spite of it's shortcomings, that's a terrible shame. Still, 
 Dark Messiah is a very enjoyable game, and I had a great time playing it. I'll go back to play 
 it again sometime, which is more than I can say for most games. Reccomended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BebopEdward
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was very fun just to mess around with different ways too kill things. Sadly this was 
 about all the game had to offer. The story line was horrible although it was interesting to use 
 the demon form. I absolutely hated the ending and yes i went back and did all 4 possible endings. 
 While there are some cool customization for the players abilities there is little to nothing as 
 far as other customization goes, and the game is completely linear. They really should have taken 
 the combat from this game and stuck it in oblivion. I did like the ability to see the characters 
 body and all the really awsome combat animations. Sadly alot of these did not transfer over to 
 the multiplayer. Many of the classes feel overpowered with 1hit kill abilities and many of the 
 really nice looking combat animations are missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: komanko
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  Many people say that the game is good but many other people say that its not good.
  After a deep thinking with myself i decided to write this review and tell you what i think.
  
 I think that the game is very good but the gameplay is alwayes the same you go and kill the dragon 
 after that you go and kill a cyclope after that you go and kill a orc...
  This is the main problem of this game and only because of this i think its not perfect.
  Because 
 its starting to be very booring.
  All the other things like graphics and music or AI all of this very good.
  After all i think 
 thats from waht i wrote i get the point that the game is very good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvramon
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Last year was a good year for rpg and action rpg with games like Elder Scrolls IV and NeverWinter 
 Nights 2 and this game was supposed to be good like those but the developers rushed the game and 
 came with not technical problems that are made the game unplayable before the patches.
  First i would like to talk about the source engine they used in this game, it is like always beautiful 
 with only couple of low resolution textures but thats ok because the game looks gorgeous overall. 
 The sound is average nothing special.
  The story is the downside of the game, it is so previsible that after only an hour you know the 
 end of the game and that was a big downside as the story could have been way better. You will probably 
 want to play that game twice if you want to know all the facets of the game but thats not sure, 
 the multiplayer is pretty good i liked it a lot but will die soon because of poor stability.
  Lastly i would like to say that this game could have been a great game if it had better stability 
 and a better story. It has the gameplay and the graphics to be a great game and thats sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khaz2k3
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  It isn't hard to give this game an 8 considering the game has it's ups and it's downs, mostly ups. 
 If you guys notice some similarities with the game Arx Fatalis, well it should not be too shocking 
 since this game was developed by the same people (Arkane Studios) . The game has many gameplay styles, 
 completely immersive and well balanced between action, adventure and rpg. You play the role of 
 Sareth, and you are on a quest to find the Skull of Shadows. While adventuring, you will pretty 
 much learn how to play as you go since the game is completely interactive and totally fun to play. 
 Just be warned that this game does have some steep hardware requirements. Make sure you have more 
 than what the specs require for the game to be safe and you'll be having the time of your life 
 hacking away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabrielpsofan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is a perfect example of why games should be given a second review after a patch is released. 
 Nearly every bug or glitch has been adressed, leaving the player with the completed title that 
 should have been available at launch. I'm not saying we should reward the company for delivering 
 an unfinished product, but the truth is that as of now, this game deserves much better than a 6.7.
 
  
  The only way this game could be seen as either short or shallow is if you hold it to the standard 
 of Oblivion. Think of this as Oblivion-Lite, an action-oriented version. Levels are rather straightforward, 
 with the emphasis on being a badass instead of roaming a gorgeous world.
  
  That isn't to say Dark Messiah is anything short of beautiful; if you've got the computer to run 
 it on high it will be gorgeous. Even medium looks fairly nice.
  
  Combat might get old if you didn't pick up new equipment and skills, which is an option, but most 
 players will not be bored by game's end.
  
  On a last (unprofessional) note, multiplayer is a blast. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidi1234
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  I liked this game.. overall i think it's underrated by gamespot. But i still would not buy it. And 
 thats my best advice... rent or borrow. The game starts ok, learning curve is practically inexistent 
 for anyone who has played an fps. Sareth is an interesting guy, the story advances nicely. Its 
 not too complex, doesnt give you any major turns that you cant foresee and it pretty much goes 
 along the usual pattern of good/evil games. The good part about the game is the action. Its pretty 
 fun, although it gets repetitive. I dont know about you guys but i never could use the environment 
 too well.. so all the kicking, throwing, trapping they avertise is only for the ppl who watch their 
 every step. If you go fighter or mage... you wont need anything to crack heads. Other than that, 
 the graphics are great, sounds are pretty good also and gameplay, although a bit quarky at some 
 points does the job ok. The thing that really set me off with this game... is how short it is. 
 A game that took me one day to beat isnt worth 30 bucks... no way. Even if you can replay it, it 
 will take you to 3 days max.. and then its over (the multiplayer being total crap) . So as i said 
 before... if you can rent it... do so and have fun with it. If you collect games, buy it. Dont buy 
 it if you want your money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavy_rocker29
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  OK so, Dark Messiah: Might and Magic is all about cutting and stabbing and killing dudes with bad 
 ass weapons and gory finishing moves. This premise by itself just screams AWESOME! But there are 
 a few things that stand in the way of keeping this game from being superb. First off the game has 
 a choppy frame rate in some spots but, this is really rare. Also the game may crash on you every 
 2 or 3 hours which is a pain in the ass. But these things aren't really that bad when you compare 
 it to the game play. So the game has this cool way of setting up what power attack you are about 
 to pull off. You always hold mouse 1 and then depending on what direction you where moving in when 
 you pressed on mouse 1 you get a different attack. This is awesome. It's fluid, simple and just 
 plain old sick.
  
  When you talk about the RPG elements however the options are limited and bland at best. But who 
 cares if your looking for a relatively straight forward action game with a lot of blood and gore 
 give Dark Messiah: Might and Magic a try.
  
  Oh... there's also a multilayer component. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disturbed_mind
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I loved to play the game. But if it crashes 10 times in half a day, it's sucks. I have a high end 
 laptop, but to play it with as few crashes possible, I had to put al the graphics on the lowest 
 choice. So after the tenth crash, I removed the game. And like in the official review says, the 
 AI isnt that great. When being attacked on a bridge or somewhere near a cliff, the NPC will most 
 likely go stand between you and the edge so that a good power attack or a kick will send them tumbling 
 down.
  
  Overall it's not such a good game, and the crashes really get annoying after 10 times. Especially 
 when it crashes 2 times within 1 in-game minute. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_man
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a story an adventure, while oblivion its a world and you can do many others qest instead 
 of doing just one.
  This is a good game ppl cant compare this game to oblivion just because it has orcs, undead and 
 trolls. Its to diferent worlds and two diferent stories.
  I think im not the only that has to say this, but many ppl see this game the first thing they see 
 its that this game is copying oblivion. One thing that this game has that oblivion doesnt and it 
 needs its online game. That brings much value to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luieburger
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah is a game for those who just like killing things in different ways. Basically you 
 can choose the bow, sword, daggers, or magic, or a mixture of all of those. The combat is fun but 
 you end up fighting the same thing a lot. There is a moderate variety of things to kill but they 
 all die pretty much the same way. There seems to be a lack of imaginative boss fights as well, 
 although giant spiders and worms are fun, they are really easy to take down once you figure out 
 the pattern. Finishing moves and power attacks are built up after a certain amount of adrenaline 
 (or rage if you are a WOW player) has been gained. These make all attacks (including spells but 
 I have yet to try that still) instant kill as well as multikill. The skill tree is kinda dry, but 
 it at least added enough role play feel to keep me going.
  
  The storyline is kinda engaging and the demoness inside your head is fun to listen to. My interest 
 peaked when I found I was given the option to choose between listening to my inner demon or trying 
 to rise above. Other than that the story is nothing new except for the fact that YOU can be the 
 bad guy... kinda.
  
  The game is fun, but definitely not worth the price you pay for it. Luckily I got it for free with 
 my new 8800GTX graphics card so I have nothing to complain about. I would wait for it to reach 
 the bargain bin before you pick it up, maybe on a rainy day when new games are scarce and you are 
 looking for some cheap fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robosnake
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I think the developers were quite brave in attempting to make an FPS with melee combat as the main 
 fighting style. I guess you could call it a First Person Fighter really. This has been rarely done 
 and I've only seen it work really well in Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay. However DMOMM manages 
 to pull it off, just. It can be a bit confusing at first but once you get the hang of avoiding 
 disorientation it becomes very satisfying as you hack and slash at the various monsters in the 
 game.
  
  I chose a stealth/archer character so i did not experience magical combat or sword n' shield gameplay 
 as you would with a mage or warrior character. dual-wielding daggers is extremely cool however 
 with some great power moves and finishing moves (beheadings etc...) The game becomes more enjoyable 
 as you level up and your attacks gain a bit of welly.
  
  The AI, while not atrocious, becomes quite predictable after a while and if you're a stealth characters 
 you can find it very easy to spot the patterns and use them to get easy kills. There were a few 
 glitches also where doors became stuck or the physics went a tiny bit wild but since I saved often 
 and the glitches were rare they weren't show-stoppers. (I was using the latest patch at the time 
 v1.02)
  
  The graphics are nicely done with HDR evident and nice shine effects on appropriate surfaces and 
 some not-so-appropriate surfaces (such as stone walls and timber in low-lit areas) . Shadows are 
 accurate although there's no fading on the edges. Soundwise I didn't notice anything degrading 
 to gameplay and suitable creepy music plays at appropriate moments. The voice acting has been slated 
 by others but I wasn't appalled by it. Its a matter of taste I suppose.
  
  Unfortunately as I don't have an internet on my gaming machine I was unable to test out the multiplayer 
 which is a large part of the game so my scoring of this game is based on the singleplayer portion 
 alone. I completed this in about 15 hours including replaying parts to get the 4 different endings. 
 The storyline is transparent though and its not a game for those who want an involving plot or 
 anything.
  
  Overall I enjoyed playing this game very much and the few niggles were not enough to ruin the experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r-azar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  First off, admittedly I am not a huge fan of the whole fantasy/wizard/D&amp; D thing. Personally 
 Im a Naval/Air combat simmer and FPS fan. That being said I didnt really purchase the game willingly 
 it came bundled with a GeForce 8800 GTS. I figured what the heck lets see what this title is about. 
 Like all smart gamers I checked for a patch before running and installed it. While being ordered 
 around by some wizard to play fetch I wanted to vomit but the game had some good visuals and I 
 wanted to see more besides, I figured this was just the training mission. The game seems to blend 
 fantasy with FPS fairly well although, for me its the first time Ive played such a title. One 
 can shoot arrows/magic or choose to wield a sword &amp; shield, of course for those who just cant 
 make up their mind you can swap style at the push of a button. Fighting can seem repetitive at 
 times but with things being fairly interactive its fun and easy finding different was to kill adversaries. 
 Theres nothing quite like a foot in the back to demonstrate the effects of gravity from a few 
 stories up. And yes, you can sneak around quite effectively as long as you use the walk or crouch 
 button.
  
  Character development is ok; you can choose to enhance different abilities be they magical or physical 
 attributes hence, one could focus on the magical for wizardry or the physical for swordsmanship/archery 
 and the like. However, earning points to do so feels linear since points are awarded only after 
 objectives are met. I could be wrong but the amount of points received doesnt seem to have to 
 do with ones performance in completing the objective.
  
  That little voice in your head is not your wife/gf making suggestions, that is Xana, the games 
 way of hinting you through to completion. Other than that, Im not quite sure what roll she plays 
 (still playing) . The voice acting seems on par with any other game but it did seem a bit overacted 
 at times. Overall, for me this was a decent sleeper. I have no clue what the Might and Magic 
 universe is but playing the game got me interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbgrim
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  this game is great . the name says it all MIGHT AND MAGIC. you start in tis scary place. to be honest 
 iwhen i first got this game i thought it would be boring but i was wrong. this game is great. you 
 start in this scary place but actuaqlly the game is not scary its fun you have magic powers diffent 
 wepons cool moves and so on. THIS GAME might not be ten out of ten for some but i think it is . 
 in this game you are not realy like prince of persia you move much slower but their is defnitaly 
 cooler moves 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brittonmcglawn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Graphics : 9 The graphics are great! Even thought my computer can't support high graphics, (my 
 processor is crappy) it's a beautiful game
  
  Sound : 8 It's a nice soundtrack, but the battle music just keeps looping, it's annoying. The character 
 voices are good.
  
  Value : 6 I have no idea of what Value is for, so i'll put in technical instead. It crashes every 
 4 to 5 levels, and it's impossible to fix without turning the damn computer off. Very annoying.
 
  
  Tilt : 10 I love the type of game where you forge your characters path and specialization.
  
 
  Gameplay : 8 I like the way it plays, pretty smooth on my computer, i've got a high sensibility 
 for my mouse so I have some what of an edge in combat.
  
  Overall : 8.5 Great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goda
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok where to start........ This game looks and feels So good If only The makers took some time befor 
 rushing it out kinda reminds me of mircosoft and windows ME and Vista GLITCH GLITCH GLITCH even 
 after the 2 patch's thay have put out Still Glitch after glitch Dont get me wrong it's a really 
 good game Looks good and feeld good I'll be the frist guy to say FPS MEET RPG and fell in love 
 now only if thay fix it...
  I will say i love this game you can do dam near any thing but unlike Oblivion where you can do 
 any thing this game you kinda have to follow the story line.
  Ok GLITCH Freez in game play Bad guys stuck in med air fall thru walls but other then that :D it's 
 cool beens 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 6, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Having played multiplayer for tons of hours I found it was finally time to finish the singleplayer 
 game.
  
  Multiplayer: Some of the best online experience I&acute; ve had with a game. The different classes 
 make for a great variety.
  
  Balanced and amazing gameplay. Being an archer lobbing fire arrows, warrior hacking and slashing 
 or protecting your buddies with the shield, shooting bolts with the mage, healing or creating fields 
 of brambles with the sorceress or backstabbing with the assassin. The combinations are huge in 
 numbers. Crusade mode is easily the best way to enjoy Dark Messiah online.
  
  Singleplayer: Wow. Great experience. Didn&acute; t get boring once during the whole game, which 
 is a long one. The physics engine makes such a difference from other games like Doom 3. You can 
 kick or pick up tons of things. Kick enemies off of cliffs, freeze the ground and watch them slip, 
 grab a barrel, hold it against a fire until it starts to burn, throw it at an enemy and watch them 
 burn to death. Hundreds of ways to kill your foes. Choose from tons of skills &amp; upgrades to 
 suit your playing style.
  
  Graphics: Played with my new GF8800gtx it looks truly amazing. Some parts look a bit dull , like 
 inside Stonehelm. But most of the areas are beautiful. Bumpmapping, HDR and water FX look awesome. 
 Enemies look great too. The spiders are among the creepiest bugs I&acute; ve ever met in a game. 
 Extremely well made foes and the animations are also good. (graphics are a bit simplified when 
 playing online)
  
  Sounds: Nice sound FX. Some stuttering could occur when loading stuff &amp; moving at the same 
 time. Great music that adds to the mood.
  
  Overall: An amazing experience that thanks to it&acute; s varied gameplay should appeal to all FPS-fans. 
 A must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artur_varanda
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  I have been playing some good titles in the last months, such as Half Life 2, Far Cry, Elder Scrolls: 
 Oblivion, FEAR, Halo, Doom3, Quake 4, and others and I cannot understand how this game is rated 
 as it is. I my oppinion it deserves much more than the 6.7 The graphics and physics are very well 
 achieved. The characters are very well designed and have a good AI. The landscape changes very 
 often and the levels design is interesting.
  
  I didn't find much bugs. I had a crash once but I think it is not critical. The sound sucks sometimes. 
 It is fun to try to find some secrets because they are very well thinked and designed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AhmedYehia86
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  the idea of this game is new with perfect graphic and sound the control may be difficult but you 
 are very interisting when you are playing it i think it is the best game of ubisoft in 2006 when 
 you are plaing it you can feel it is near to oblivion 4 but dark messiah is better the only problem 
 of this game is its control and its size is very big
  it require high requirement specially in processor .
  i have prossesor 2.4 /256 vga 128 fx 5200 
 and 512 ram and the game run very well but if you want to run it with high graphic you must have 
 1024 ram and vga 256 or higher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah wraps a dull story around repetitive combat. It's not a bad game, but some glitches 
 and diffuculty hurt the game. Gameplay is fun thats all there is too it swords staffs daggers and 
 shields are all diffrent and change up game play from your normal FPS/RPG game, As you progress 
 you get skill points to upgrade talents, skills, magic and weapons.
  You can kill your enemy in many ways from a chandalier to a candle stick and a long sword to a 
 enchanted staff.. Graphics are amazing, Atleast xbox 360 quality there are some graphics glitches 
 where a texture goes purple (that happens with steam games... alot) Sounds are great to from the 
 screams of the dying and wounded to the claning of swords. This is a good game with few bugs and 
 a great game to play for 10 our so hours before uninstalling and going back to oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Firstly it's not a RPG at all, unlocking weapons and spells does not make it anymore of a RPG than 
 it does in BF2 and 2142..... It's a melee/fantasy FPS and thats final. The first mainsteam game 
 i've played thats had any of the features this game has and sure the storyline sucks but the gameplay 
 is just pure fun.
  
  I do not understand how it got greta reviews from Europe and horrible mediocre ones in America 
 but..... it's just a shame because it might not get a 2nd as a result.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Fun and fast + theres lots of hidden humour in the game. The storyline wasn't that great but it 
 is your standard crappy FPS story that gets you through. I loved the characters and the controls 
 and overall the gameplay was top notch. Theres quite alot of innovation for a mainstream game where 
 i've never seen this done before.... special thanx to the Source engine for allowing something 
 new and support from Valve.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Again fantastic! The source engine maybe aging but the art and level designs more than make up 
 for it. I think it was level 4 where you go onto a boat and that was just beautiful, i also loved 
 when youw ere on the sides of the cliffs and in that aztec style levels. The variation of levels 
 is great and takes your breath away quite alot.
  
  Character models of the source engine are again top notch too and a very sexy voice in your head 
 :) There is one or 2 nude scenes aswel which i didn't think we're needed.
  
  I did however think the city level near the start at night time was ugly but that didn't last very 
 long.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sounds were all great and some very funny moments i had with character scripts, example: kicking 
 a orc off a cliff and him shouting bummer which i thought was kool.
  
  The music was ok but not the most amazing i've ever heard.
  
  Value:
  
  You get GREAT multiplayer 
 and a AMAZING single player experience which you'll honestly love and feel very satifised with. 
 It's dropped in price aswel quite alot and is soooo worth it.
  
  End of the day it's the best game for me since 2004 and i'd reccomend it to anyone with a half 
 decent PC. Don't worry about storyline and all the crap because it's all about innovative fun FPS 
 gameplay with a fantasy twist.
  
  Edit: Just played the multiplayer and the patches and updates are amazing and the game is very 
 fun :D It's like a Fantasy version of CS with capture points or if your on custom maps then its 
 just team deathmatch. Going to raise my score by 0.1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  I expected a lot from this game because of the fact that a French creator (s) had much to do with 
 this game. For anyone who has ever seen any French horror movies on IFC or Silent Hill you know 
 what I am talking about. This game is a great disappointment coming from a Might and Magic series 
 that is great to say the least. The game is cheasy on more than one front and does little to show 
 any comparison or might to other GREAT games like Oblivion or WOW. In trying to be so different 
 they seem to have alienated the game so far from good that it is lost. The small metters that save 
 the game from obscurity are the death animations, which are to say the least; hysterical. The music 
 is grand and the graphics, (provided you have a power CPU) are well generated. Dark Messiah is 
 a game that would be fun if it cost 20 bucks and you could devote ten to twelve hours on a weekend 
 to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spindie
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  i just had a great time (despite the cannabis) cutting some guys head off in slo-mo just before 
 i kicked his face into a wall spike. This game is just mad fun, u start off with a sword and u 
 walk up behind some dude and kick him off a ledge its great. gamespot should of given it a better 
 score. it looks like the half life team made it or somethin cause the menus are the exact same 
 as cs but Its ill tho get it. its liek oblivion but more to the point and u just kill dudes the 
 whole time but its mad fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iq2luc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I just love it. Fighting style remembered me somehow of Blade of Darkness... not so elaborate combos 
 - but very dynamic and addictive and very funny too. Loved a lot the ideea of using environment 
 to kill enemies. Nice 'acting' for NPCs too. After installing the first version of the game I encountered 
 a lot of crashes and bugs - so I put it away after just a few minutes of playing. Last patch completely 
 changed the game. Not a single crash or some another annoying bug - a perfect and continous play 
 from the beginning to the end. Wonderful game! certainly a 9+... I don't understand the 6.7 gamespot 
 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_completor
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Although this game has gotten bad reviews from most American game reviewers (Gamespot 6.7/10) , 
 it has had its fair share of good reviews from European and British reviewers (PC Gamer 88%) . If 
 you, like me, have been waiting for this game for ages, then dont be disappointed. This game actually 
 strips down what is actually needed to get a fun game, NOT a great game. Most of us dont actually 
 remember that games werent meant to have engaging storylines. That part was just added on during 
 the course of evolution. Heck, imagine Tetris having a storyline. Dark Messiah tries its best to 
 please everyone but it fails when it comes to surprises. Frankly, reading the booklet in the game 
 box almost tells you whats going to happen. Here is a chaptered review:
  Story
  Okay, Ill have to admit, the story isnt captivating. Almost boring. Its not actually horrible, 
 it is just too predictable. At least there is three different endings which can be chosen by making 
 obvious decisions (good versus Bad) . The worst part about the story is the ending. It ends on such 
 an anti climax, leaving the players with unwanted answers to unwanted questions. So dont be looking 
 for a incredible story in this game. Game play
  This is where Dark Messiah shines its brightest. The game play is so unlike anything else. In most 
 hack and slash games (Oblivion) , you are able to power strike, the act of striking powerfully by 
 holding the attack button. In Dark Messiah, there are about 3 different types of melee weapons, 
 each with four different power strike stances which can be chosen using directional keys (up: offensive 
 stab, right: forehand, left: backhand, and down: defensive thrust, for the sword) There is also 
 an adrenaline mode (berserker mode in Doom 3) which enables you to kill one, two or many enemies 
 depending on your stance. When in adrenaline mode or having a weapon which enables critical hits, 
 limbs will be flying off their mutilated corpses in battle. Using a backhand power strike with 
 a sword chops of a goblins head like a knife through butter. The bow and arrow system here work 
 better than in Oblivion. Includes bows with freezing, deep frying and poisoning ability. Not to 
 mention, a rope bow. This spawns a rope when its arrow hits wooden surfaces. Ropes and chains can 
 be climbed of course. The camera controls are human like. Unlike in other FPS games, where you 
 are a floating camera with a weapon, here you look around using your eyes, instead of turning your 
 entire body in another direction. This means more logical chase scenes, where you can twist your 
 neck a bit to see whats chasing and still run forward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutafukaa
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  U have no ideea what u are missing if u havent played this game yet !!! what can i say i was amazed 
 when i started to play the single player mode ... grapich was amazing , game play amazing , game 
 style amazing , story line could of used a bit more imagination but it was ok , there were no start 
 glitches like i use to get whit many other games , everything was perfect , and when the adrenaline 
 rush starts woaaa !!!! Get the game and enjoy it , it's trully worth it . ----------------------------------------------------------- 
 ----------------------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahavalad
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  great only can say great but have little problem : all of game is in dark and shadow this best 
 game in this genre but like half-life2 you must think what you should to do but good if you dont 
 play this game your life ****
  the game is too long when you finished the game you dont remember what have been you playing for 
 realize what you played you must improve your memory!
  this game has many items and weapons you didnt see like it anywhere!
  the game is very long for 
 remember what you played you must improve your memory!
  your enemies have great AI like F. E. A. R 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Most of us love shooting enemies with the Spaz-12 or the PS90 in our favorite first-person shooters 
 such as Counter-Strike and Half-Life 2. Do we ever enjoy first-person melee combat though? Oblivion 
 failed at providing a non-autistic form of first-person melee combat (FPM) , which would lead some 
 to believe that it couldnt be done if Bethesda couldnt pull of FPM. Conclusions, although decisive 
 never really give us the truth. The truth, well Bethesda turned fighting with swords in the first 
 person into an autistic upbeat laughable paradigm while Arkane turned it into an enjoyable pleasure, 
 it may just replace masturbation Arkane studios, if you have heard of them or not all you need 
 to know is that even though Dark Messiah of Might and Magic got horrible initial reviews, a few 
 months later it is a great game. After an initial scare of computers breaking with this game because 
 of its buggy release, everything seems to be in order, except for a frame rate issue. Built on 
 the source engine; hence the mention of HL2 and CS, we can finally see what can be done with talents 
 beyond valve; they are breathtaking. The implementation of HDR and new textures brings the game 
 to life as you kill orcs, goblins, and dragons. Talking about graphics in this game would be like 
 talking about the hotness of Keira Knightly or some other Hollywood babe; we already know they/it 
 is pretty. Which leaves us to some pondering: What is so great about this game? Well, the story 
 line while clich&eacute; at times (but what isnt now a days) will engross you into the games world 
 and may make you love the devil inside your head or the blonde trying to court you. Narrated by 
 you, Sareth, your goal is unknown until about the last few levels. This isnt bad, as most people 
 would think, it allows paranoia and for you to actually use your brain to figure out the plot. 
 While it is predictable, the story is about as engrossing and entertaining as the book Eragon. 
 I wont leave much about the plot in this review; you should be interested in finding out if you 
 are the Dark Messiah. This review could talk about sound quality of the game, but Id rather not. 
 That is to be expected from a game using the Source engine. A lot is expected from this game because 
 it is the Source engine, and well, most of the time it lives up to it. Some issues would be the 
 low frame rates you can get on a high-end system and all the initial bugs that made this even worse 
 at release. After fixing it we can come back and look at the beautiful lush landscapes and caverns 
 Arkane was able to make. The true thrill of the game is finding some of the coolest weapons and 
 killing orcs, and goblins, and necromancers with them. In one portion of the game I found some 
 lightning daggers, which became my favorite, I ran around stabbing Orcs in the back; a skill you 
 can acquire among many others. You will find soon though, that the best weapons you may never use 
 because there are so many different combinations, permutations that you can choose. After fixing 
 the bugs, Dark Messiah finally stands out as the game it should be. A tale from a long remembered 
 series that gives you the choice of good and evil and inserts that formula into a beautiful world 
 only the medieval thoughts could deliver. There is a multiplayer aspect to this game, yet, it falls 
 short from the quality of single player. I played for about thirty minutes before I was bored and 
 decided to play BF2142. The game doesnt lend itself well to that aspect, while castle siege is 
 fun; there isnt much organization of the multiplayer portion of this romp through the world of 
 Might and Magic. If you dodged this game because of initial reviews, look at it again and I think 
 you will change your mind. The intense melee fighting should be enough to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 20, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah is a game that strives to be an action packed, style-oozing thrill ride. You expect 
 a jumpstart to the promised action after completing the short tutorial section. Instead, you get 
 a dragging and unnecessary initial chapter full of craptastic plot devices and cheesy dialogue, 
 in a miserable attempt at creating a meaningful story. Super long load times will keep you entertained, 
 though, so no need to worry.
  
  You play as this dude, under the command of this totally evil wizard who sends this hot demon chick 
 into your conscious to keep tabs on you. You're then sent to the Big City to do an errand, only 
 to be expectably ambushed by a Lord of the Rings cave troll look-a-like. Youre a total badass, 
 obviously, so you deal with that problem quickly. From there you meet up with a busty and completely 
 irritating female protagonist who will continuously pester you throughout the storyline, and who 
 is equally annoying when compared to the inside-your-head demon commentary.
  
  In between the lame story advancements and character interactions, you go from set piece to set 
 piece gutting fools with your sword, blasting people off of cliffs, and burning them alive. By 
 the time its over, about 15 hours later, there will be thousands dead in your wake. The first 
 person perspective gameplay ends up being shallow, but oddly enjoyable. Theres a decent variety 
 of ways to kill people. And probably the most satisfying aspect of DM is the gory death animations. 
 Blood will be spilled, necks will be broken, bodies will be mutilated, and most importantly, heads 
 will role. Youll accomplish this by the many context sensitive actions, destructible environments, 
 ridiculous physics system, and one hell of a kick.
  
  DM uses a modified and supposedly advanced version of Valves Source Engine, but you could only 
 guess this by witnessing the prolific use of shiny surfaces and the lagging framerate. DM has glimpes 
 of glory, but largely has the tendency to look like garbage, and this is mostly attributed to the 
 games style, or lack thereof. Its freakin generic from start to finish. This is confirmed even 
 more by the voice acting and sound effects that achieve the magnificence of a Sci-Fi Original. 
 DM conjecturably falters with its sad excuse of online multiplayer, as well. Even though it gets 
 most of its action segments done well enough in single player, the multiplayer lacks any redeeming 
 factors. In the process of attempting a decent balance online, your character loses its aura of 
 dominating power. The multiplayer is a waste of time.
  
  There's no reason to fret, though, when you have an extremely clich&eacute; story, characters, 
 and presentation to keep you occupied. It has all the bells and whistles of a horrid B-movie. Busty 
 chicks, failure at creating a sexually charged partner who waves you toward the dark side, evilly 
 low-voiced bad guys, and plot twists that you, for the love of God, better not care about. Dark 
 Messiah is no savior, thats for damn sure. But theres a certain satisfaction to be had just by 
 killing the in game enemies because their polygons are part of the game, and it deserves all the 
 thrashing it can take. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah brings what Oblivion failed to do... blood and gore! I love all the different special 
 moves you can do like kicking them off your sword, chop their heads off, set them on fire. Sure 
 there isn't much RPG'ing but hey, I love seeing goblins beg for mercy! Multiplayer isn't that great 
 but single is very nicely done. Graphics are very good but did not beat HL2. Overall Dark Messiah 
 is a nice game, full of violence and gore. Why does GS give this game such a low rating??!! However 
 the ending is very dissapointing, there seems to be no consequence to your actions during the final 
 sequence of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hildegain
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is nice and easy to use, the dynamics in graphics and also environments (interactions) 
 is a great addition, this isn't seen enough in many games so keep it up. The storyline is actually 
 quite interesting and being able to choose your own destiny adds to the significance of the character.
 
  The game could have been made a little longer, i feel it was a little short with no real unlockable 
 content. The fact that steam had to be used to go online with this bugs me, a lot of people experience 
 problems with it, i myself found a lot of connection problems and also a couple of crashes.
  
  Apart from that i think this game is superb, i don't rate something if it isn't worth my time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Dice
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  I don't know why people underestimated this game , it's fun , exciting ,and phenomenal , graphics 
 were awesome , effects were outrages , and story was enthusiastic .... This Game Deserves Some 
 Respect ... The Best Part is you get to choose how the game progresses , you get to pick sides 
 , ( evil or Good ) , now tell me that ain't fun .. Plus when you finish the game , when you finish 
 the game , it's time to kick some ass , ONLINE , the multiplayer mode is Extordinary , the servers 
 are great , the maps are huge , and letting go is almost impossible... You might think am bragging 
 but , u'll find out when u buy this game !! Good Luck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Dark messiah has some great action, like throwing barrels at enemies and hit them with different 
 weapons.
  The worst thing about DMOMM is that it has these annoying bugs, like getting stuck in the wall.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  +Feels like a good action movie, overall better combat moves then oblivion
  +/-AI aint that good as oblivion
  +Overall decent multiplayer
  +Source engine gives the game 
 good graphics and physics
  -Boring story
  -Singleplayer mode is over before you know it
  -Bugs really bug the game
  
  Graphics:
  +Based on the source engine with physics
  +Some 
 nice looks in-game
  -Looks misty and foggy
  -Not a really good choice to build it for the source engine
  
  Sounds:
  +Decent sounds, but 
 really not very interesting
  +/- Music aint bad but it aint the best either
  
  Value:
  +Action is what DMOMM is about
  +Does include a decent multiplayer mode
  -Story is boring
 
  -Too many bugs
  -Singleplayer to short
  
  Tilt:
  +Controls arent hard to master
  -Boring story
  -Too many bugs
  
  If you love to play hack an slash RPG games in FPS, this 
 is a decent choice.
  If you want better graphics, sounds and value take oblivion
  bye bye all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  first off its impossible to make a game with NO bugs... or glitches ( (btw i have seen ZERO maybe 
 the odd one but not to what GS put down) ) also never... NEVER crashed thats what patches are for... 
 fix bugs glitches and close to desktop... if you dont know that by now yall got a problem for sure. 
 plus you should never go and buy a game when it comes out... wait a bit till certain things are 
 fixed which now in this game they are...
  
  ive never played a game like this before... only thing close to this sword bow and axe fighting 
 ive ever done was on WoW... but they did a great job of turning this into FP ( (ive seen many games 
 try to pull that off and they didnt do a good job at all) ) also never played this game called oblivion 
 and i dont think i will after spending 5 hours on this kick ass game so far ^_^
  
  oh i forgot to add that i am a FPS whore and play alot of realistic-type games... so playing this 
 game was a big change but i loved it
  
  now getting to the game my view...
  
  GOOD: well graphics are great... and my computer aint that great and i have everything top notched 
 which is... amazing...
  
  the physics are great aswell... i mean you can interact with the enviroment so well and after killing 
 an enemy nothing like seeing him get cut up or loose a head... i cant stand games where everything 
 seems dull where you know you could interact with that chain or box or anything heavy to have it 
 fall on an enemy... thats not saying much but this game does that very well sound is good and i 
 have it on medium nothing like hearing swords clash together or off a shield even when hitting 
 other objects the sound is there also voice acting... ... ... great job only thing i dont like 
 is when for example when you kick a guard and he falls along with another and as they get up they 
 moan... well both of them do and it sounds like they are echoing but whatever... better then nothing
 
  
  gameplay... this one cant say alot... other then kick ASS ^_^ and i dont want to say much becouse 
 its already been put down by other reviewers
  
  BAD: i have a feeling that the single-player is short... which i hate and as i mentioned above 
 sometimes the sound kinda turns you off but other then that great game tottaly worth 39.99
  
  
  we all have different taste in games... but if you like FP gagmes with a RP feeling and 
 hand to hand combat with bows and magic you will probably like it... i mean hell i hated games 
 like this i was always for guns and what not so if it changed my way of looking at something different... 
 it will to you to
  
  and fro now on readers... just pay attention to the rating WE SAY not GS their marbles as far as 
 MP i tried it and i like is so far... PS: the reload times at some points are too long but thats 
 alright i can get my beer between them ^_^
  
  also towards my rating... i never payed attention to value or reviewers tilt... but to get it to 
 the rating i wanted i just put em up more then just 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Gamers into fantasy RPGs and Thief-like stealth games should really consider giving Dark Messiah 
 a try. It's worth the unique experience. Dark Messiah of Might and Magic is a nice fantasy action-RPG 
 with a gameplay that's really up to you. You decide wether or not you upgrade your warrior skills 
 instead of stealth or mage skills and play the game your way. Sneak around obstacles and use your 
 daggers to strike or go in full with sword, shield and heavy armor.
  
  It's really up to you, which makes this game truly awesome. Some games say 'yeah, you can use different 
 strategies', but often eventhough you can do so on paper, in practise &oacute; ther strategies than 
 simply hack and slash and block your way through, won't work. This game is different. Practically 
 every part of the levels were designed for multiple strategy approaches. Higher places so you can 
 attack with arrow and bows, dark hiding spots and plenty of corners on groundlevel to do surprise 
 strikes and off course plenty of room to duel it out using ballistic magic spells or your trusted 
 sword and shield. You can even pick stuff up and throw it at your enemies, throwing heavy barrels 
 can often be a pretty good strategy if an orc is standing near the edge of a cliff. If you get 
 close enough undetected you could even kick him off with a nice kick in the back. Kicking is a 
 gameplay feature that comes in pretty handy when you're slightly outnumbered and need to buy some 
 time or do some damage.
  Infact, if you use it wisely you can use your environment to kill them by soley kicking them. I 
 already gave the cliff example, but you can also kick enemies into spikes to instantly kill them.
 
  
  Some strategies might give you a certain extra advantage, but usually every strategy has an equal 
 chance of success, something which really shows that this game is balanced and can easily be replayed 
 in a totally different way without becomming extremely difficult.
  
  Beware that although the basic learning curve isn't steep at all, some enemies are pretty strong 
 right from start. This may make you worry a bit about the overal difficulty of the game, but it's 
 pretty okey although not very easy.
  
  As in any other game some strategies still might work better than others in certain occasions, 
 but leveldesign and enemy placement doesn't dictate the way you have to play. Some creatures are 
 more vulnerable to specific attacks than others, ready your bow infront of a fire to shoot fire 
 arrows, usually inflicting more damage, especially when the particular enemy has a weakness for 
 fire.
  
  Being succesful in the game is also a matter of upgrading the right skills for the right type of 
 gameplay. This can be anything, from mage orientated to stealth orientated and anything inbetween. 
 You can always go for a more allround strategy and upgrade all your skills equally.
  
  Enough about the gameplay, let's talk a little bit about the story before I come to my conclusion. 
 I won't give away the plot, but it's really interesting enough to keep players busy. It may be 
 a tad basic and it definately hasn't got the scale of a Dungeon Siege story or it's depth, but 
 it's solid enough and the leveldesign fits the story nicely. The amount of levels is good and level 
 parts load fast on any machine capable of running Halflife2. I hardly have to talk about graphics 
 here, since the artwork and texturing is awesome and the source engine is a very good engine. The 
 game is pretty detailed and you'll never encounter a dull environment, eventhough most levels are 
 not very spacy open areas outside, however variation is really good in this game. All in all Dark 
 Messiah is a game worthy of your money if you're into this genre. Even if you're not really into 
 RPGs that much, this game might surprise you since it's a tad different than you're normal RPG 
 with loads of stats and skills and things. Dark Messiah does feature a large amount of weapons, 
 potions, spell scrolls, rings, staffs, books with information and off course armor. The emphasis 
 clearly lies on the gameplay possibilities which is definately the game's strongest point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curt_leon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  You could say this game sucks and I don't care, you people at gamespot never give games like this 
 a chance, technical glitches? you could just call them very rare glitches the only glitch there 
 is is a console spamming bug every time you open a level but there is nothing unusual, its what 
 you get when you mod the source engine to an extent, and no game is perfect. I don't really think 
 the story is dull at all, it's filled with some, I repeat, some suspense. the story in every game 
 gamespot reviews they say the story isn't that great but it's not true.
  
  The graphics are what you would expect, smooth, beautiful in every aspect the your sword gets bloody 
 when you kill an enemy, and the characters are very highly detailed making this game a monster 
 on slow machines, but so was hl2.
  
  The gameplay was not repetitive, you didn't say this about morrowind with its weird combat system, 
 its hit miss miss miss hit with morrowind without even giving a clue if it hit of missed or how 
 much damage it did, but DMOMM's combat system lets you charge the attack for more damage and even 
 use the envirment around you, various weapons keep the game going and fun, bows short swords long 
 swords clubs axes bows daggers and many types of each weapon.
  
  The game sounds great too, the weapon sounds are very good and realistic when you are fighting 
 with the orcs you can get into some tough battles, and you even do some special stuff, like the 
 rubbing against sword thing like this oxo
  
  o= person
  
  x= swords
  
  you keep clicking LMB to win it, and the sound while doing it is impressive, good job ubisoft!
 
  
  You get a pretty long challanging game with some replay value so its great for another RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Addzi
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  I wasn't that happy with Gamespot's slightly unfair review for the reasons that it was compared 
 to an RPG. This is NOT an RPG. It's an action game with some limited customisation options. Once 
 you get past the fact that the plot and the concept don't make much sense, the actual game is fun 
 and satisfying to play.
  
  The combat is fast and brutal. It makes you feel powerful being able to kick and slash your way 
 through the hordes of fantsasy creatures that M&amp; M veterans will recognise instantly. That's 
 what is paramount in this kind of game. Everything else is superficial.
  
  I tend not to explain plots on my reviews, as you can easily read someone else's review that details 
 the plot and little else.
  
  If you like visceral, over the top action, this game is for you. Just don't think about it too 
 much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rachadi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  This would be one of the best action RPG i've ever played. Therefore i think that GameSpot review 
 is totaly missed out.
  This is a real solid adventure full of gadgets and a huge varity in almost everything: 
 
  Gameplay experience would be different from player to another returning to the way everyone will 
 use to be skilled and to the foundation throughout the storyline.
  Graphics is really awesome, very detailed textures and enviroments. sound is nearly perfect and 
 the audio-visuals effects are amazing. The only bad thing is that developpers may modify the gameplay 
 system to be easier for players, as the access of inventory to choose items within battles and 
 fights is slow. And skills points are hard to be gained unless they would change the game name 
 to ( (dark messiah of mIght OR magic) ) .
  So this game is a great piece you must own it, and for GAMESPOT they must RE-review it again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaceAlex
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  Fun game if you're angry, or are looking for a game where you don't have to think much, and let 
 your sword or a bow do the thinkng and talking. The graphic are wonderful, just like you would 
 come to expect from a source engine based game. The physics are great, and really add to the fun 
 factor (nothing better than pushing your foes into the spikes) .
  
  The sound is also wonderful... everything from swords swinging to wind blowing is top-notch. Voice 
 acting is pretty bad though... the woman's spirit that takes residence in your head will most likely 
 start getting on your nerves as soon as you hear her speak for the first time. Value is something 
 that this game lacks though. It will not take you long to finish the game (approx. 10 hours) , and 
 chanches are you will not feel like playing through it again for a while, because the game is very 
 linear. Overall, a fun game, that is missing a good stroyline, more ways to kill the foes (better 
 stealth kills would be a welcome addition) , more interactions with NPC's and so on. But, if you 
 like action games, you will not be disappointed with this game. If you're more of an RPG-kinda 
 guy you would be better of getting oblivon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok got the game a week ago and so in dissappointed with it as its not what i expected. The main 
 probem is well there no Freedom which makes the game more of a bore at times.
  
  As i said it feels as if somthings holding the game back it feels like somthing really good will 
 happen but it does'nt and it can also get very boring just swinging your sword. the best class 
 is for sure the archer but there so dam hard to use. one nice aspect is the role playing system 
 as when u get kills u level up and then useing the points u can get new skills like zooming in 
 with a bow and so on. They also inputed this in to mulitlplayer which is nice to see and works 
 well. The Mp is fun but again it can be a bit hard and anoying as your enemys may have leveled 
 getting new skills when u enter a server with nothing but basic gear makeing it harder for u to 
 get kills. boss fights and the the way the levels are made is really good but like i said there 
 seems to be little freedom. in the second mission i wanted to have a little fun with the gaurds 
 in the city by doing stupid thing like chucking things at them and such but if u make them angry 
 u fail the mission and its back to checkpoint. I mean i would have rather the guards try and kill 
 me tbh. it things like that them make game very well pushy like it tells me to guard go close the 
 gate 
  me but i want to go looks at the big monster 
  guard go close the gate 
  me scew u im looking at the monster..... wow hes pretty cool ok i close the... wtf
  U have failed 
 the mission
  
  the funny thing was the second time i actully did close the gate but it still said i failed the 
 mission (one of so many bugs) . another cool thing which i not seen in a game before but if u look 
 down u can see your own legs. there a few weapons but not a hole lot of them. contorls can also 
 be anyoining as well.
  
  Now the graphics are really nice and u can tell there really used to source engine well. althought 
 loads times can be a bit of a bother at times. one example of graphics was in a mulitplayer game 
 i was not really doing anything and just looking around then out of no where a dragon goes passed 
 the screen it look really good and pretty much for the first time ever in a game it made me go 
 wow. did i really just see that. and graphics wise its kick ass.
  
  sound is also really good. the voice acting is top notch and with the fighting sounds and such. 
 its really cool as u could go up to someone and hear him talking to someone else. the sound is 
 probley one of the best things about the game.
  
  Thb there also not enought of the game. theres only 12 chapters (levels) and could of done with 
 a few more. i also don't think there any new kind of weapons like swords and such either which 
 is a real let down to. this is really a big shame and seems to be happening alot with games these 
 days.
  
  So final thoughts. Well its a game that is good but there just not enought of it and seems to really 
 take away the freedom which i think most games should have these days. But the mp aspect of the 
 game is really good. So if u have &pound;19 laying about and want a mp game which feels like Oblivion 
 then buy it But if u never play Oblivion then i would save your money and go for that as for apart 
 from the muiltyplayer its no where near as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earthcreater
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 10, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  I am really mad at game spot right now , to think that they almost tricked me into not buying this 
 game.
  
  this game has a lot of qualities, like 1) a good and interesting story
  2) blood and gore and parts flying around
  3) a psychotic and sexy woman talking in your head 
 all the time
  4) great graphics and animations
  4) Blood and gore and body parts all around ( said twice cause it is really important)
  
  and 
 it is a hell of a lot fun hitting people in the head with arrows, and seeing them getting attached 
 to the wall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tool_rage
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 9, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I've never written a review before, but I feel obliged to help get the word out that this game 
 is great.
  
  GS said: Dark Messiah wraps a dull story around repetitive combat. It's not a bad game, but its 
 technical glitches really bring it down.
  
  First off, I thought the story was pretty dull, just like 90% of all games ever made, but to say 
 it has repetitive combat is ridiculous.
  
  The combat system in this game beats Oblivion's hands down. In fact, I would go as far as to say 
 I believe Dark Messiah has the best FPSword combat system to date.
  
  GS said: The Good: Good death animations. This should read Some of the best death animations and 
 character animations on any game ever .
  The physics in this game are top-notch. Half Life 2 style. Throw a barrel in the water, kick a 
 guy of a building or just cut of a head, you can rest a sure the physics and animation will tickle 
 your fancy.
  
  GS said: The Bad: Numerous crashes and glitches get in the way; minimal character building and 
 progression; most of the game's combat is unsatisfying; storyline is almost completely transparent 
 right off the bat.
  
  This game didn't crash ONCE on my system, not once! Glitches? I saw no more than every other PC 
 game.
  Minimal character building? You've gotta think of Dark Messiah as more of a first-person Action 
 game, it's a RPG second. With that said, what it does have in character building is really quite 
 good. most of the game's combat is unsatisfying - I have no idea how GS came up with this one. 
 All in all this game is awesome. It was kicked in the teeth by some reviewers and seriously deserves 
 a far better score than what GS gave it.
  
  Check out the demo and If you like it, but the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricatrinda1993
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Well it uses the Half-life graphics engine but it has a lot of bugs, the sound isn't good. It uses 
 a lot of the computer. The graphis are of medium rate and as I've said before Oblivion is better, 
 besides I don't think this game is able to face Oblivion in any manner. The graphics could be better, 
 it could use less of the computer, it could not have too many bugs but were is the professionalism 
 here?? I think that they should make a remake of this but with a lot of new things, no bugs, better 
 graphics and shadows. The sound........ One of the things that I like into this game is the gravity 
 idea in the swinging of weapons and other action like running. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah offers an interesting premise -- an FPS action game set in a fantasy world where you 
 can use melee weapons in addition magic and stealth elements. The game starts enough well enough 
 showcasing the graphically prowess of the SOURCE engine and a taste of the melee combat along with 
 the physics elements (for example you can kick your enemies into spiked walls stragitically placed.) 
 However once the novelty wears off, the fighting mechanics along with poor level design makes everything 
 feel mundane. I should rephrase that. Most of the levels are very interesting; it is just the way 
 you go through them fighting the same enemies. However it is not all run and gun *ahem* slash. 
 From time to time, the game does show some exciting game play elements and shows the game could 
 have been, but those moments are few and far in-between.
  
  The story is what you would expect from a FPS but the game does give you optional quests and alternative 
 ending. And I am always swayed by semi-nude demon babes. (You will find out what I mean)
  
  In short, this game is only interesting for the first 60 minutes. There are better FPS games out 
 there.
  
  
  TEST SYSTEM
  1.02 patch
  Geforce 8800GTX
  Athlon X2
  X-Fi
  3GB of ram 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turbopowered007
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  This has to be the best might and magic that has entered the series. The graphics are good, the 
 methods you can use to destroy your opponents are limitless and you can choose what powers you 
 prefer. Whether you like magic or rather sneaky attacks this game will not fail to please you. 
 However if you prefer slashing and dashing this game might be a bit of a letdown.
  
  In the beginning the game can be very addictive; however as you get nearer to finishing the game 
 it can get repetitive. The glitches in the game are hardly noticeable, unless your a really serious 
 gamer or a pro at spotting them.
  
  All in all this game is worthwhile playing and if youre into these types of games, Dark Messiah 
 can be plain fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Shock
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I gave it 8.4, even when GameSpot ranked it 6.7 But Honestly the game isn't bad, I finished the 
 game, it was a good time to play each level, The game have some important Bugs, but if you like 
 it really you'll find the way and you'll fix it yourself. after I finished it I began again but 
 in hard level, omg it was fun really.
  
  The problem with the game are the many bugs that you'll find while you are playing it. But I found 
 some tips and tricks in their forums so I did fix it without no problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perilslayer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Alright here's my review of Dark Messiah. I bought the game and played it the very day i got it. 
 I went into the magic class because i know how borring hacking and slashing can be. Magic gives 
 you a way more open way to kill things. The fireball spell is by far the best magic spell you can 
 get. The others cost more magic and they take longer to cast. The game has quite a few specail 
 ways to kill people. Crushing them with boxes, kicking them on spikes, knocking them off a cliff, 
 impaling them, knocking a bridge out from below them, knocking a statue on top of them, or any 
 other way i didn't take the time to think of. I think that most of the complants about this game 
 are about the repetitive hack and slash and the low multiplayer play. The game has a good story 
 and some eye candy. That's always good in a game. One again the good or evil gameplay comes into 
 play. Not a big factor though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Well i want to describe my rating first, so here it goes:
  My final rating will be based on how much fun the game is.
  So i'm goign to rate the gameplay, 
 graphics, sound standalone but the final mark will be more based on how fun the game is!
  
  Well the begining of the game and the first 2-3 chapters are quite interesting.
  You start at 
 a dungeon, which is sord of a training mission. There you need to find out about some of the gameplay 
 things, like how to jump to ropes, showing you that you can break some walls and cut ropes and 
 stuff. So it's basicly geting familiar with the game!
  As you actually start the story missions it is quite interesting at least for the first 3 chapters.
 
  About the story: You are basicly some guy trained by some powerful magitian and your life long 
 dream is to become an adventurer hero. So as the missions start you are basicly becoming one. It's 
 a well known story and nothing special there!
  
  Graphics: Well the game uses the HL2 (source) engine and it's still a great engine. It features 
 physics, great graphics, the ability to render some pretty big areas and so on... The ingame graphics 
 are very good, the engine allows you to choose if you want to render graphics in DX8 or DX9 and 
 you can set the quality of the shader! The game features some medium to large scale terrains and 
 theres quite few objects you can interact with. For example you can brake some boxes, cut ropes 
 and crush wooden stolbs!
  Overall nice graphics, though it has a bug and thats with older graphic cards can't render the 
 ingame videos. This may be fixed in the pathces though i'm not certain as i heavent instaled them 
 when i was playing the game!
  
  Gameplay: Well the gameplay can be interesting and boring sometimes. For example the fiirst 3 chapters 
 are interesting then the 4 and 5th chapter are boring. The concept is already known and has been 
 used in games so nothing special there. The game is more action-adventure rather that RPG like 
 oblivion or gothic 3 so don't expect free movement and exploration or quests. You have mission 
 you need to complete in order to move to the next chapter, if you fail you need to load ur savegame!
 
  Anyways you can take food or health and mana posions to restore ur health or mana. Theres also 
 Diablo 2 like experience system. You gain experience points for killing monsters and finishing 
 the missions and you then choose where you want to invest your experience. There are 3 main components 
 and those are melee, archery and spells!
  
  Sound: Well i'll be short here, the sounds are average and thats what you need to know!
  
  
 Fun Factor: 5/10
  Overall score: 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikemuffins000
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first got Dark Messiah of Might and Magic I was expecting a non-stop free-roam thrill ride 
 exactly like Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Instead I got some cheapo story, boring combat and a game 
 that's so glitchy it would make Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing look good.
  
  The gameplay on this game, as I said before, is repetitive and it gets so boring you don't even 
 want to continue onto the next level. Even I didn't finish the game 100% because, #1 there's absolutely 
 nothing to do after you're done and #2 it just SO BORING! The same jabs, slashes, and hits with 
 the same adrenaline power hit applies throughout 10 stinking levels of this game. Half the time 
 the AI is so bad it gets stuck in the walls and the game crashes. Oh, and that reminds me, the 
 glitchiness . If you do not get patch 1.2 this game is virtually unplayable. The first level doesn't 
 even load all the way.
  
  The sound is pretty good but it gets annoying after a while. Every time you take out your sword 
 you HAVE to hear that annoying shwing slashing sound. If you're switching between bow and sword 
 every now and then this will piss you off.
  
  The graphics for a new-gen game are excellent. If the gameplay matched the graphics this game would 
 get a perfect ten.
  
  Value is a big issue when buying Dark Messiah of Might and Magic. You get stinky gameplay, annoying 
 sound, and excellent graphics for about $39.99. It's really up to you.
  
  Rent or Buy
  
  Well, this is a PC game so I DO NOT suggest buying this game unless you have $39.99 laying 
 around somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  That's what this game is about. I can't say I don't like it... it has a good storyline and stuffs 
 but it's not that type... I mean that you find the same short sword until chapter 4 and you find 
 so many other stuffs like that and you can't sell them anyplace. What I like at this game is the 
 story already mentioned and the combat mode. I like a lot to fight in this game. So if you haven't 
 played this game yet I propose you to be carefull first time you encounter an enemy.
  
  It has a good graphic and some monster types. It is a long game and you have a lot to do. It's 
 like you live another life except the no-shop and other things that other games have. So this game 
 has what other good RPG's like Gothic or Arx Fathalis dosen't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guncizxxl
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  I got the game after Gamespot reviewed this game so bad and I've been waiting for this game so 
 long. Gamespot marked this game as good, but with many glitches and bugs, but I played this game 
 two times, and no big (and small) bugs were seen, no crashes or something like that (I played without 
 the patch) . I could play on the highest settings, but I stayed on game's recommended settings just 
 to avoid the long loading times. So I couldn't understand where Gamespot found all these bugs and 
 crashes. The game is good, a bit boring, but OK. I enjoyed the sword fights, I was amazed by the 
 HDR effects in some places (especially Chapter 7) . The story was somewhat dull, and the demon skill 
 was not needed, they could at least put in some puzzles for this skill. And the last boss fight 
 was way too easy.
  So my last words are:
  I waited for this game, I enjoyed it, but I expected much more.
  P. S. Hope a sequel will come 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krekar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  When i first bought this game i thought it would be a great game and it was good graphics and all 
 but the loading is killing.
  
  you start the game and its like 2-4 mins of loading u get in to the game and its a total of 1-3 
 hours of loading in the hole game combined and that is just to much.
  I must say the fighting is just great can't complain there its allot of blood and gore and thats 
 just realistic so i can't say to much negativ about that.
  
  The game it self is good but the ending was bad at least thats what i think that your dad is the 
 ultimat enemy and the strongest wisard and when u first meet ur dad the game just ends so it could 
 have been better. The MP could have been better i think the ranking system should be kinda like
 
  BF2 rankings insted of always be on lvl 1 when u start so the MP could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naku_vamp
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Well i like yes it could be better but most games could always be better I've only had one major 
 glitch in the game and i didn't download the patch yet and truly it seems like a good game to me 
 it looks nice plays fairly well Seriously the only thing that ever happened was the first time 
 i used the freeze spell the game form for bout a minute then played perfectly fine ... and the guy 
 i was aiming at was frozen also. so yeah worked to me... even though i know it shouldn't have froze 
 up considering i have way more resources than this game could use but oh well i also have not gotten 
 the path yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k1DBLITZ
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  I am 12 hours in and really enjoying this game after the latest patch. Contrary to others opinions, 
 I am enjoying the storyline and can't wait to find out what happens next. Combat is fast and furious, 
 but not without strategy. There are many ways you can use your environment to your advantage. Take 
 a moment and survey your surroundings. What is that rope securing? What will happen if I cut it? 
 Can I kick out the support beam from this roof and collapse it upon my enemies? Can I kick them 
 into the open fire and watch them burn? Can I kick him into those spikes and impale him? You bet 
 you can, and more. You can also choose to sneak up behind an enemy and slit his throat with your 
 daggers, you can charge in like a barbarian swinging like a madman, you can go for the headshot 
 with your trusty bow, (always satisfying) or you can release fiery doom from your fingertips. The 
 choice is yours. The adrenaline strikes are always a treat. Nothing like seeing that killing blow 
 in slow motion. I also like the fact that you can pick up the corpses and move them around. Why 
 is that fun you ask? Why not throw that dead guy off a cliff? Or better yet, kick him off the edge 
 while he's still living?
  
  Graphics and sound are great. This obviously varies according to system specs. The more RAM the 
 better to combat loading times and hiccups where objects are loaded on the fly. Overall I would 
 recommend this game to any FPS/RPG player. It is quickly becoming one of my favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoogieManFL
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 28, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics:
  
  Awesome. The level design is pretty good, and the textures are amazing. There is a nice atmosphere 
 and it's very immersive. The Sounds:
  
  The Sound effects are decent. Enemy sounds and voices get repetitive. The voice acting is great.
 
  
  The Gameplay:
  
  The game really impressed me at first, but the combat can be very tedious and even overly hard 
 if you don't customize your character well. A jack of all trades is left in the dust. Master one, 
 or you'll probably have trouble. The game makes heavy use of physics and traps, but after awhile 
 I just had to ask myself: Why are there so many spiked wall traps? The combat gets repetive because 
 using the environment to kill your enemies is relied upon too much. And the game is almost totally 
 linear, so it offers very little replay value. And by the time you really get your character skills 
 filling out nicely, the game is over.
  
  All in all a fun experience, but I don't think any game is worth full price if it doesn't offer 
 replayability. And even then, the game is fairly short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I don't say this often, but I believe that Gamespot really did not do this game justice in its 
 review. This is probably one of those instances where too many games ruins the gamer. I found Dark 
 Messiah to be a breath of fresh air for the entire gaming industry. This game broke the mold, bringing 
 together aspects of many types of games into one new style. While hardly perfect, this game more 
 than provides a gaming experience that was well worth the price of admission. Graphically this 
 game is stunning. Using a modified Half-Life 2 engine this game looks good and has great physics 
 and detail. The first time you chop someone's head off and the head goes one way as the body flies 
 the other spurting blood you just have to say... Wow! The various areas of the game you visit are 
 intricate and well designed down to the smallest detail. You just want to explore every nook. No 
 two levels seemed the same to me so the game remained fresh from start to finish. The audio to 
 the game was also well done with a good soundtrack and decent dialogs between the characters. It's 
 not Gone with the Wind, but it's good enough to move the game along. Most of the NPC's will talk 
 when they are not trying to kill you and they can have some interesting conversations. Many of 
 the monsters have appropriate and frightening sounds to them, from spiders to cyclops. Even walking 
 on different surfaces had good sounds to go with them. I found the game play to be anything but 
 boring or repetitive. The act of fighting in this game is not just hacking and slashing. There 
 is some skill required to swing your sword (or other weapon) to hit your enemy and deal decent 
 damage. The enemies in the game hardly stand still either. They duck and dodge and can be hard 
 to hit. I found every battle a new chance to perfect my fighting, I never got bored. With the variety 
 of weapons at your disposal, as well as environmental weapons, each battle became strategic as 
 well as frantic. There are plenty of secrets and areas to explore to make the game seem quite large. 
 I was so addicted to this game, hours would pass in the blink of an eye. The inventory system along 
 with the skill point upgrade system gives the game another dimension that also increases the replay 
 value. You can be a fighter, magician, or assassin, depending on the skills you choose to increase, 
 which will then open new weapons to use. After finishing the game the first time I was already 
 prepared to play again with a new strategy. None of these paths lessen the game, they just add 
 to the strategy and replay value. The storyline was not very deep, nor terribly surprising, but 
 it was interesting enough. The play was the thing, and Dark Messiah has plenty of it. DO NOT miss 
 this game if you are a FPS fan, a fantasy fan, an RPG fan, or just a gaming fan in general. I feel 
 that this game set a benchmark for later games to beat, and well worth the price tag. With a multi 
 player aspect added on to boot, how can you loose, you get to hack your friends to bits in classic 
 FPS type maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnderJR
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I thought it was a great game.... while it lasted. It was way WAY to short for my taste. I got 
 it on my Birthday from my bro and had lots of fun with but the puzzles were easy enough to stop 
 playing for an hour or two and come back and figure out what im supposed to do. The review said 
 that the easiest and most effective way to beat the game was to melee the crap out of everything. 
 Well I mostly used the bow with melee skill. The boss fights were way to easy. Absolutly no thought 
 to how to kill them whats-oh-ever. I mean the cyclops for example find a place where they cant 
 reach you go out shoot it twice, run back in, wait till he walks away and do it again. No thought. 
 If the do make an expansion or a sequal they should at least make it a little bit more challenging. 
 Because I beat the game in 3 days playing it sparringly.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slick_Mike
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The good: I happen to think this was a brilliant melding of RPG with FPS. Way more FPS than Oblivion 
 was, but I like FPS, so that's why I liked it. Also, it's incredibly replayable simply because 
 there's so many paths to take your character, class-wise and story-wise. For me, the difficulty 
 is just hard enough. If you play a game on normal difficulty, you (in my opinion) should only die 
 three or four times during the course of the story (not counting accidentally missing a jump or 
 something inane) . This game had just about that number. Finally, it looks GORGEOUS. Lastly, I enjoyed 
 many of the endings and how the story seemed to actually build up to it.
  
  The bad: The voice acting was horrific. There wasn't one good actor or line in the dialog. The 
 AI was a bit dumb at times too. If a cyclops couldn't get to me, he didn't wait for me to crawl 
 out of my hiding place screaming, he forgot I was there and went back to his routine (lots of enemies 
 would do this) . Back to the story, there were elements of the story that they seemed to beat you 
 over the head with (namely who you really are) , both too soon and too often. We're not that dumb. 
 Finally, for having RPG elements, a little more exploration and a little less linearity would be 
 called for. That way, if you're even interested in exploring the world a little more, you may find 
 something more interesting than a few extra potions and a sword you may or may not be able to use.
 
  
  Bottom Line: Get it if you were planning on playing a non-traditional FPS as your next game. Ignore 
 the story, enjoy the battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kabam87
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Like many people out there, I was hooked to this game after playing the demo once. I couldn't wait 
 for the next first-person RPG that would put Elder Scrolls IV to shame. However, after buying the 
 game through STEAM and playing it for the first time, it turned out to be a total downer. Here's 
 a comparison of the demo verses actuall play:
  
  Graphics Demo: I was surprised that it not only worked, but it displayed fluent and stunning visuals 
 on the low settings my computer can suppport. Actual game: Same displays, but load times were extremley 
 long. Even high end computer users were complaining about the load times.
  
  Sound Demo: High quality, well produced with no problems whatsoever. Actual game: Loud, constant 
 static noises that can from character speech. Many other gamers had this problem and was fixed 
 with a patch download through STEAM. However, it took a long time and this sort of problem should 
 be tested before sold to the masses.
  
  Gameplay Demo: Compelling and unique environment. Interesting storyline. Interactive elements that 
 the player can use to their advantage or gain access to different areas of each level. Combat is 
 unique and lets the player decide how to fight. Finishing moves couldn't be cooler. Unique skill 
 tree allowed for in depth character development. Actual game: Hit and miss. Storyline turns into 
 a mish mash that leaves you thinking, WTF? Combat at times is difficult, especially when outnumbered. 
 At times it felt like I had to fight in a specific way or use specific weapons in order to defeay 
 my enemies. This of coarse would make me a weaker combatant since I would have to use methods of 
 combat that I did not specialize in within the skill tree.
  
  Overall, this game isn't worth it. Yeah, its got a unique skill development tree, cool finishing 
 moves, and great graphics, but its lack of quality gameplay and infestation of bugs and glitches 
 prevent anything good that comes from this game from being enjoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragoonKnight12
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah try's to accomplish something great, and it succeed, not in any way perfectly but 
 it does it in a fun way. General Dark Messiah Concentrates on the battle system first instead of 
 it being a feature its a function, that throws alot of other first person shooters feature melee 
 combat to shame. The story starts of in a teach as you go type theme, basically it at first gives 
 you the resources you will need later slowly teaching you all the basics before you even draw a 
 weapon, such as sprinting jumping and of course kicking which is mighty fun. The game does its 
 best to slowly unfold as you play, you will be betrayed lied to, and used but in the end its going 
 to be your decision that inflicts the ending, will you follow prophecy or your heart?
  
  Game Play
  Dark Messiah's Unique take on its battle system gets it alot of points here, I think 
 the only disappointing thing is there not being any shops, but ill give them those points back 
 for the really cool blacksmith areas where you go through the entire process of metal to sword. 
 Generally the game has a way of evolving as you continue to play.
  
  Graphics
  Ill have to throw it all out here its an improved version of the source engine used in Half Life 
 2, and its capable of producing extremely beautiful scenes and places you would not feel safe going 
 to even with 12 legions of samurai..
  
  Sound
  The music is great and a-lot of the sounds are perfect but there is a jab in that glass of perfection 
 the creatures voice overs are redundant to the point of try to shut them out. Orc's are probably 
 worse, using saying stranger meets his dragon, or some minor difference of that, it can be annoying 
 to hear ever monster has the same voice excluding special characters, with very few lines to choose 
 from.
  
  Value
  Taking into account the single and the multi-player function it seems like a great buy, i've beta 
 tested the multi-player and its incredibly fun.... Also the demo received a heavy amount of modding 
 after it was released, seeing how modable the demo was I for see a-lot of adding playability in 
 its future. Also a software development kit was promised to be released which we know will make 
 this game worth every penny.
  
  Tilt
  The game has this level of addiction that just grabs you and takes you through this very interesting 
 world, there are alot of big events in this game and be honest they hit as a attempt of making 
 a new kind of epic game. But will this game stand the tide of time, well ill leave that to you 
 the readers , and the players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BatmanXXXX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Well as I said I believe that Gamespot was wrong in their ratings, which they are a lot. I gave 
 this game a 9.7 not because it fully deserved it, but because I'm hoping to bring up the average 
 rating. I would actually give this game about a high 8's or low 9's. In Gamespot's review they 
 speak of Dark Messiah's glitches to an annoying extent. I've actually found there to be no glitches 
 what-so-ever and my game ran smoothly throughout the entire single player. I also thought the single 
 player plot was very good filled with those fun twists and turns we all look forward to. The gameplay 
 is very fun because it has a nice progression from the beginning and you get to work your way up. 
 Of coarse it's an RPG so you get to increase stats as you go and you have magic abilities, archer 
 capabilities, and of coarse the sword and shield. The single player is challenging to the point 
 where it isn't boring, but just right. The graphics aren't perfect, but they are still pretty darn 
 good, as you can tell from screen shots. My friend also got this game and agrees with me 100%. 
 DM also has an amazingly fun online multiplayer aspect. There seem to always be a couple servers 
 running with a good amount of people in them. There are a fair amount of European servers and a 
 fair amount of American servers, so you can always find a ping (latency) that is just right. As 
 for the gameplay in the multiplayer, there are 5 classes. Archer, Priestess, Assassin, Knight, 
 and Mage. I have played with each one to some extent and have found that I like them all in a different 
 way. The range of classes is good because once you play as one class for a long time, then get 
 bored, you can switch onto another, and so on. Now I will inform you of the different classes, 
 if you would like to skip over this part, so be it. Archers are a nice long range character and 
 good against short range. They make it fair by making the Archer not so fast and a lower stamina 
 regen. In each class there are character trees that you can upgrade as you get kills or capture 
 points to get your xp up. So back to the point. Archers can get fire arrows, poison arrows, flare 
 arrows, double shot, and triple shot. Next class is Assassins. Assassins are very sleek and are 
 normally fun for beginners. They have the ability to turn invisible and are very fun for sneaking 
 around. Assassins have daggers which I might add are pretty BA They have an attack called back 
 stab which is a one hit kill, but sometimes hard to land. Some abilities that the Assassin has 
 include feign death (appear to die) , cloak (turn invisible, but only slightly when moving and fully 
 when still) , poison daggers, and disguise (makes you look like a player on the other team) . This 
 player is good because it take skill and is very fun to play as. Priestess. Priestess' have the 
 ability to heal others and themselves. Most games make the healers the wimps, but in this game 
 they are pretty good and deadly when played by the right person. Priestess' have bramble balls 
 (put down brambles on the ground and slow them down) , resurrect (bring people from the dead and 
 take soles of dead enemies) , and blind (blinds enemy) . Priestesses are very useful and somewhat 
 fun to play. Healing yourself gives you a good advantage and brambles help for your get away. Mages 
 are a semi-unbalanced class. If there is one issue I have, it is that the mages. At first they 
 start off horrible and very hard to level up with, but once you get them going they are nearly 
 impossible to stop. They become very powerful and have cool attacks. You can pick between electricity 
 or fire, or keep an even balance of both. Fire attacks normally are guided balls of fire that do 
 large amounts of damage. Electricity has a sniper attack which is very powerful and a rapid firing 
 electrical shot attack. Once you get to the extremes of either electricity or fire, they have an 
 almighty attack that is usually a one hit kill that can set people on fire or just hurt them greatly. 
 Mages are good to play as, but take skill and can be a little to powerful. And last but certainly 
 not least, there is the knight. The Knight uses a sword and shield. I have always liked this form 
 of combat and it is the only true short ranged class. Some of its abilities include an indestructible 
 shield (except to other knights) and upgrades to armor, stamina, and strength. Knights are very 
 powerful, but can be frustrating at times to handle a long ranged player. Their indestructible 
 shield is nice and they are a very fast class. I currently play as a knight and like the combat 
 system more than the others. I can safely say that I've liked the multiplayer more than the single 
 player due to the range of classes and how you can never truly get bored. I've played this game 
 for approximately 50 hours and intend to keep playing. It is a fun game I would fully recommend 
 getting and it is worth the money. The single player provides a good length of time and the multiplayer 
 is something you can always go back to. Your level gets erased after each crusade (which normally 
 lasts about 2 hours) and that is good because the game requires a good level of skill and everyone 
 starts off at the same level. So you all have an equal opportunity to get good. The game is easy 
 to catch onto and the controls are simple. There is only one glitch that I have found that gives 
 you the capability to shoot you up into the sky. My friend and I are the only ones that know how 
 to, so it's not a big deal. So get this game if you like RPG's and a combat system much like Fable 
 or Oblivion. Good game, get it and enjoy it for a good while. I am truly satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightfang
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the many people anticipating this title. I played the demo when it was available through 
 Steam, and fell in love with the gameplay and the wonderfully detailed world in which it took place. 
 The demo ran beautifully for me, with only a few graphics problems that were easily resolved with 
 a driver update. When the final game came out, I went straight to Best Buy and purchased the Special 
 Edition.
  
  Well, here I am, almost two months later, and I have to say, I am less than impressed. Why, you 
 may ask? Simple - the game only works about 33% of the time, the rest of the time it gives me Direct 
 3D errors, locks up entirely playing sounds, or just freezes my computer completely during the 
 initial load. Two patches have done nothing to alleviate this problem, either. I have tried every 
 hack and trick posted on many forums around the internet and have yet to find a solution that makes 
 the game work properly. Sometimes, it starts up and plays for a few hours, next time it hard locks 
 my machine cuing up a sound effect, and the next time it just will not load. I have tried the retail 
 release, by itself, with no luck, and unfortunately, the Steam version (I registered mine through 
 Steam once I had it) does not work, either. If I could find a way to get my $60 back, I would.
 
  
  Now, when the game does work, it is an awesome game. The graphics and sounds are wonderful, the 
 gameplay is action packed and intense, and the story is fun to follow. I just wish it would load 
 properly and play properly, so that I can continue to enjoy it.
  
  I am stuck with it, so I will continue to wait for Arkane to learn how to program software so that 
 they can possibly fix the glaring flaws in the game. Maybe one day I can play it through, whenever 
 I want, without having to reboot four times or downgrade my video driver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valvola
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  I think that the greatest problem of the game's magazine today is that they try PC's games as soon 
 as are released.
  
  If you are VALVE or ID, you can make your publisher wait a lot of month after the release date 
 to make your game parfect, but if you are minor developer you MUST respect the release date and 
 publish an incomplete game.
  
  I'm quite suprised to see thet every magazine reviewer seems to ignore that fact, it's really not 
 professional. PC games has to be reviewd one or two months after their release date.
  
  Anyway, I think Dark Messiah is a great game but it's innovative first person sword fighting system 
 can be appreciated only by hardcore FPS player.
  
  I'm sure that a lot of the reviews I've read all around has been write by RPG player, and this 
 is a grat problem... because DM is not a RPG but absolutely a FPS. What happen if you ask to review 
 HEXEN to a hardcore D&amp; D player? happen that the reviewer gives 5 or 6 to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mana_SG
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah Might and Magic, I have been waiting for this for a while now and now its finally 
 out!
  You start out as an orphan boy named Sareth who has been trained from his youth to become a powerful 
 warrior/wizard by a magician named Phenrig. After Phenrig deems you ready he sends you on your 
 1st mission, which is to retrieve the Shantiri crystal from some ruins infested with undead and 
 the mercenaries of the undead. Once you complete that you are on your way into the game itself. 
 I actually liked the way the training mission was done, infact I thought it was done very well. 
 Its the kind of tutorial that you wont want to skip every time you want to play the game differently 
 and there are some variations in how you can complete the game. Another aspect I liked although 
 it might have been a little bit better was the lady that lives in my head. Its a bit better to 
 have someone that Sareth can talk to rather than him just talking to himself. And she does help 
 you out at times when you are stuck, but most of the time she tells you what to do before you can 
 actually think for yourself and at other times she doesnt help you at all. The ending of the game 
 was rather short I would say, but it does leave it pretty open ended which can be a good thing 
 if they consider making a sequel of some sort.
  I think the Single Player of Dark Messiah was rather well done and did have some great use of the 
 physics engine provided with Source as well as the good integration of HDR that made the maps 
 look even prettier, but I for one liked Heresh the most, where it was not as bright as any of the 
 other maps. The multiplayer part of the game is good too, it possibly could have been better but 
 it is what it is. There are 5 maps and 3 game modes as of right now, with 1 more game mode and 
 2-3 maps coming in the next update. The current maps are made specifically for the Crusade mode 
 of the game. In Crusade mode you start out in a neutral place and then go capture flags of the 
 other team. You also have spawn tickets that go down each time a person dies. So if you run out 
 of the tickets and the enemy has more flags captured, you lose. Then there are Team-Deathmatch 
 and Deathmatch modes for the kill everyone or almost everyone that moves kind of play. And then 
 we have Capture The Flag coming in the next update. Should be fun!
  Overall Dark Messiah is a good game that could have been better, I never experienced any real problems 
 with it but other people seemingly did. It could have been better, but its out now and not much 
 can be changed. Just have to wait for all the patches that will come to multiplayer, new game modes 
 and maps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guun63
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  This is a good game indeed, its a easy and strait forward game, It has some nice scene now and 
 then. One of the first missions you have to fight a cyclop, its a cool scene but i just don't get 
 the feeling that this big castle your at is under attack. The fighting is really cool, maybe thats 
 on of the best things about the game, using the bow isn't that cool at all you don't really feel 
 like you sending a arrow right into and enemy, the arrows dont stick to people, and it looks kinda 
 lame to see this with stripe behind the arrow. using magic just looks cool and thats it. The enemy's 
 are easy and dumb, not the worst there is but still a bit to stupid.
  Overall this is a funny and good game to play the first time then it begins to get boring, but 
 still it deserves a bit more then only 6.7.
  If i had to rate it i would give it a 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspking111
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game about 1 week ago and still play at least 2 hours a day of it... Its an amazing 
 game and you dont need a high powered PC to see some of the good graphics... the campain is a little 
 hard because of the new controls but once you figure them out you shall dominate... not only is 
 the single player very funn and entertaining THEY ALSO THREW IN MULTIPLAYER!... multiplayer is not 
 as easy as some of the pray and spray games like CSS or FEAR... Dark Messiah takes some strategy 
 if you want to come out on top of the player stats... For $50 i think its worth it... i took a shot 
 in the dark, i didnt play the demo but yet i think its my new favorite game... so its up to you 
 but i highly recommend this game to any one that wants something that will keep them busy for a 
 while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noorforce
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 12, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game should not have scores higher than 8, but because i like melee fighting games, so i give 
 it 8.3. The multi-player is quite dump, a lot of people running and everything is unclear. Can't 
 see your target, don't know how to kill your enemy. However, if you like assassin, and killing 
 people by one hit. It is quite interest. The mage is the most powerful, especailly when it becomes 
 high level, the magic can kill more than one of every character. May be archer has some advantage 
 on mage, but no one can match it. Assassin is so easy to kill at start of game, except warriors, 
 clocking and blackstrub is so efficient. When there is no use of melee attack to warriors, if blackstrub 
 is unsccessful, you are better run off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: struong
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah is easy to pick up with beautiful graphics and very basic but fun mechanics. Nothing 
 beats walking up to a fully armored badass and kicking him off a ledge to sends him flying into 
 a canyon. I enjoyed hacking and slashing my way through the game but it does gets repetitive toward 
 the end. It's not an overly long game with a very obvious storyline so if you are looking for a 
 grand epic, you will be disappointed. This game is billed as a action/rpg style kind of game but 
 the leveling up and skill set is extremely limited. You are probably looking at 7-9 skills in each 
 skill tree and those are limited to warrior, mage, thief and archer. You don't gain experience 
 and your enemies won't drop any good equipment.
  
  This is no Elder Scroll: Oblivion but hey, if you enjoy a quick hack and slash session set in a 
 fantasy session then this game is much easier to finish (around 10-15 hours) than many other games 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I had really high hopes for this game. The concept was right on, a FPS but set in a fantasy world. 
 I actually get to cast magic and swing a sword from the first person view. It sure tried but just 
 didn't hit the mark.
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag. The scenery is fun in a lot of cases but doesn't have the punch of 
 many of the most recent games like half-life 2 or Fear. The motion is choppy and often unresponsive 
 and monsters are just far too easy to beat. There was really no challenge in this game. Just plod 
 along and let the really obvious story line play out. Combine this concept with a better story 
 and the half-life engine and look out, this could have been a GOTY contender. But alas, not to 
 be.
  
  The skill set was uninteresting and not very useful. The only way to really do well was to use 
 the best sword you can find. The Bow is WAY too slow and unresponsive and magic works in some cases 
 but not most. TOO SLOW. I hate not saying something good about the game so I have to tell you I 
 felt really good killing the annoying lady in my head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goN_PL
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah of Might &amp; Magic takes player to the lands of Ashan -- the whole new world in 
 M&amp; M series and a starting point for all new Might and Magic games (beginning from Heroes of 
 Might and Magic V) . You take role of Sareth -- a young hero born to defeat the titular Dark Messiah. 
 You have been prepared and trained since your childhood by your master Phenrig for the quest that 
 you must perform. But what paths will you take to achieve it -- that depends only on you. You can 
 be a silent and quick assassin (who kills his opponents silently using his daggers) , a fierce and 
 noble warrior (sword + shield = instant death) , a mage (who concentrates on two kinds of magic: destruction 
 and illusion) or an agile and wily archer (shooting mobs down using bow and mostly using enviroment 
 to his needs) . You can also be a mix of it all and make a jack-of-all-trades character, but that's 
 not recommended.
  
  Dark Messiah is slightly different from any other Might and Magic games. While all Heroes of Might 
 and Magic were a turn-based strategy games and other Might and Magic games were simply RPGs, DM 
 isn't RPG neither TBS. It's some kind of a mix between RPG and FPS (which makes it quite similar 
 to Painkiller - after completing part of a mission you gain additional skill points which you can 
 spend for skills, spells, combos etc, etc.) . When travelling through the beautiful world of Ashan 
 you'll eventually hack and slash trough tons of enemies including Orcs, zombies, human mercenaries, 
 Necromancers and more.
  
  You will play through 11 huge levels but half of them is easily done in one night. When starting 
 the game, your master sends you in a 'tresure hunt' to retrieve an ancient and powerful crystal. 
 This tutorial will teach you the basics of the game: movement, attacking and using enviroment to 
 achieve your goals. After that he sends you to another mage with that crystal to help him obtain 
 another artifact. But he isn't sending you alone. He also summons a woman named Xana who is some 
 kind of what should I do next? type. She is useful when you stand stucked on a level and can't 
 find a solution. After that the storyline moves on.
  
  Graphics simply rule. This game really shows the true potential of Source engine. It has been powered 
 up with newest Havok technology, HDR maps and maany other graphic goodies . Sound is mostly impressive. 
 The bad thing is that Necromancers are speaking English -- but they could do so because of their 
 transformation from a human into an undead. The same thing is about Orcs - they also speak English (that's 
 weird - how and where did they learned it?) . But their voices are acted superbly. Gameplay is rocking. 
 Single player mode is very good; haven't tried multiplayer yet. It's a must-have for all RPG and (especially) 
 Might and Magic fans. Others may try the demo to see if they like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourOpFeR
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  You are a warrior. And you have only one mission: Kill everything that moves! Ok, ok, there are 
 at least some guys which you mustn't kill...
  
  The game is really not bad. But it's not really good, too.
  
  1. Why is it repetitive?
  The 
 only thing you have to do is: Kill, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill....... there are many, many enemies, 
 and all of them want to get owned by you ~.~ In the beginning, this is quite funny. Later, this 
 gets on your nerves:
  Omg, 5 enemies blocking my path... KK, lets just own them quickly, then lets go ahead, ready to 
 face more enemies... Hope this will be over soon... 
  Don't misunderstand me, the game has its' cool moments, too, but most of the time it is not really 
 entertaining.
  You cannot earn money in this game... This means: No towns, no shops, no buying, just monsterslaying 
 and waiting for a chest with some heal potions...
  This game has stages. You won't be able to visit old areas again.
  
  2. Why is it imbalanced?
 
  Because of your character's skill-tree. It's not very good to skill him on magic, just because 
 of the fact that magic is too weak. The game won't be funny if you are a sorcerer. You cannot use 
 all the cool swords and bows that can be found everywhere. Yeah, at THIS game, magicians are losers!!! 
 However, there's one spell you HAVE TO skill: The Heal-Spell. I don't think that the game is completable 
 without it...
  Using bows is not very good either. If the enemy is close to you, you have to run like a little 
 chicken...
  The best thing is to make your character a warrior. This is the most entertaining way to play this 
 game.
  
  Overall:
  Graphics and sound are nearly perfect, but the game itself is mediocre. Really sad, this game had 
 potential, but threw it away like rotten meat... It is really not as good as it could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoP-Falcon
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  I review the Singleplayer Mode only... Never tried MP....
  
  Graphics: I Liked the Graphics... nothing to complain here... Performance was OK....
  
  Sounds: 
 were good too... Nice Effects and the Music was alright... That Horrorstuff in the tombs was annoying 
 at times, but it was ok at all...
  
  Gameplay: The combat is fun, but gets boring after a while... Sometimes I whished more enemys with 
 less Hitpoints... It's kinda annoying to hack around on some Ghoul without a Armor for half a minute... 
 controls and stuff are alright... No roleplaying here thats for shure... you hack through the world 
 and thats it... very few decitions to make... Story and Leveldesign: The Campaign is far too short.... 
 I thought the Oblivion Mainquest were short... but Dark Messiah endet far too early and the Storyline 
 was rushed somehow.... I waited for some bigger Things to be unvealed, but nothing happend.... 
 there is ONE City in the whole game.... Thats kinda poor... But the most annoying thing is that 
 you got to crawl around in Tombs and stuff f&uuml; r about 80% of the Game.... I hated these undead 
 Things and Zombie after a short time of dealing with them, but I had to deal with them non stop 
 to the End... If you like that... it's your Game... but for me it was very frustrating... And these 
 Spiders and other poisonspilling Scum I simply HATE them now.... the Poiseneffekt sucks too... 
 And you get poisoned every 3 minutes..... The Levels where well done but as mentioned there was 
 too much indoor Cavecrawling.... I disliked the repeating enemy Bosses too.... after 3 Cyclopses 
 and 2 identical Minidragons I was pissed.... And the final Boss was too easy... While he was nearly 
 Almighty when you met him before he was a weak Sucker at the final Battle.... I think the Game 
 feels more like a good Mod than a Full Game... The Story is definitly too short and seems rushed.... 
 And while it's fun to play it just is nothing special and has not enough substance for my taste.... 
 I recomment to wait until it's cheaper.... The Actionguys will get what they want.... RPGfans will 
 be disappointed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonnybiz
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer is still fun, even though it was poorly done by kuju, as it offers some things other 
 fps's dont have and its somewhat like an FPS-RPG type game, making things much more interesting
 
  
  the Single player is amazing, a bit too short id say but was LOADS of fun as any of the character 
 roles you choose to play
  
  the ability to freeze people is really fun
  
  shrinking people is fun
  
  lots of abilities and powers available that you cant experience 
 in any other game in that same way
  
  very fun, i recommend getting it, however if gamespot hosts another tournament, dont just join 
 the teams that are unorganized, with random people, you will get slaughtered by the people who 
 are in a clan and organized because people NEVER show up to tournaments if they arent in your clan!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I completed Dark Messiah of Might and Magic, but i found the game has few technical problems. The 
 patches for the game is a must to be used otherwise more technical problems may arise. I found the 
 game not fully optimised for P. C. It has Multiplayer option also. The combat style in the game is 
 mindblowing. It is a decent FPS cum adventure / fantasy (old periods) mixed P. C game. The magics, spells 
 used in the game is noteworthy. The graphic's ,AI in the game looks stunning. The game also has good 
 sound quality. Be ready to kill lots of deadly Orcs , Goblins ,Spiders, more different kinds of evil 
 opponents etc in style. The Storyline is Okay. Apart from technical problems the game offers good 
 gameplay value. The story overall is not very lenghty ,but it offers you every moment of satisfying 
 action. I recommend to everyone (who've still now, not purchased the game) to play the demo of the 
 game first. If it runs perfectly on your P. C, then you go for the full version. The game is highly 
 enjoyable in action sense, if we overlook the bugs in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelspit_CH
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  As the single-player component of Dark Messiah of Might and Magic was revealed to the press and 
 fans via a demo, people started to notice that it suffered from an identity crisis. Built on the 
 Source engine, the game was seen as the stepchild of Half Life 2. The RPG elements it promised 
 led people to compare the game to Oblivion, the current role-playing best seller. And last but 
 not least, Dark Messiah includes the words Might and Magic on its box, and some people thought 
 the famous role-playing series had been granted another chapter, under a different name. With so 
 many different expectations, it is quite easy to be confused, surprised, and perhaps disappointed 
 by the path that has been chosen by Arkane Studios and Ubisoft. But if you can accept Dark Messiah 
 for what it really, meaning a role-playing game (yes, we believe it can be described as such) with 
 a heavy focus on action, you will get a breathtaking tour of the new world of Ashan, and witness 
 some dramatic events.
  
  Dark Messiah takes place 20 years after the end of Heroes of Might and Magic V. After a short prologue, 
 a young man called Sareth is sent by his master to the city of Stonehelm to give an artifact called 
 the Shantiri Crystal to Menelag the wizard. From there, the game will quickly put you in the middle 
 of the action and let you progress through nine chapters and one epilogue of various lengths. You 
 see the world through the eyes of Sareth, who travels alone most of the time, and the games does 
 a good job to let you identify to the character: if you look down you will see your feet, if you 
 climb a ladder you field of vision will be limited on each side, if you are thrown by a creature 
 you will end up on the ground, looking at the enemy who is towering you. Unfortunately, that effect 
 is spoiled by the fact that all conversations in the game are scripted and spoken. Similarly, the 
 game gives you very little freedom in your travels. You are supposed to go from point A to point 
 B, and besides a few exceptions, walls, closed doors and dead-ends will force you to follow the 
 path drawn by the developers. As a consequence, your tour of the city of Stonehelm is limited to 
 a few streets and buildings. There is no shop around, bystanders will barely say a few words and 
 ignore you when you talk to them, and the objectives in your journal are merely a list of things 
 to do before you get to the next chapter. However, the first time you come across an enemy, you 
 quickly find out that your trips around Stonehelm will not be a walk in the park.
  
  The real beauty of Dark Messiah is that whenever you encounter an obstacle, you can usually solve 
 the problem in more than one way. Magic-oriented players will be given a varied selection of spells, 
 from the simple vision enhancement to the impressive inferno. Stealth game specialists can either 
 try to get closer to the enemy and perform a backstab move at the last moment, or perhaps shoot 
 a few arrows from a distance and hide in a dark corner. However, in many cases battle cannot be 
 avoided and you must make good use of your melee weapons. Hand-to-hand combat in Dark Messiah is 
 possibly the best implementation ever in a video game. It is all about timing, carefully executing 
 your special attacks and making sure you are not surrounded by multiple enemies at once. There 
 are not a lot of creature types in the game, but they all behave differently in battle: while spiders 
 will simply run towards you on sight and attack, humanoid creatures will parry your blows, attempt 
 to dodge your projectiles and try to coordinate their attacks when in a group; We got him cornered 
 now and Go get him from the left are some of the things you will hear during a fight. When you 
 get yourself in a particularly difficult situation, you can take advantage of the environment: 
 racks of spikes, railways above chasms and campfire and barrels can be found all over the place 
 and can be used as weapons with a slash of your sword or a well-executed kick. Unfortunately, most 
 enemies will fall for the trick too easily and Sareth's kicks become a weapon that's even more 
 useful than that Superior Naga Silksword you found in a dungeon. At times the game will feel more 
 like Karateka than a Might and Magic game. But the fact remains that taking out a group of orcs 
 all by yourself is very rewarding, no matter what course of action you chose. And that's perhaps 
 where you will decide to roleplay your character a little and force yourself to use specific tricks, 
 by using stealth as much as possible or by not using the kick button at all. The game is not all 
 about combat though. A couple of simple puzzles can be found throughout the game, many of which 
 involve using the game's rope bow, a tool that allows you to attach ropes to wooden structures 
 and use them to reach remotes locations. Since a couple of secret areas and hidden treasure can 
 be found above your head, it's usually to look for planks inside dungeons -- the rewards are not 
 always very exciting, but the Pitfall-style rope jumping is quite fun for a while. At times, the 
 answer to the puzzle is a little too obvious, such as when your sidekick tells you right away to 
 look at the ceiling to get out of a specific room, only the repeat the advice a couple of seconds 
 later. While getting some help for a puzzle is a nice touch, it spoils the feeling of accomplishment 
 we would get had we figured out the answer on our own. While various tricks will allow you to progress 
 through the game without using melee weapons, the way of the warrior is certainly the easiest way 
 to finish the game. The mage and the archer will sometimes get into trouble once his enemies manage 
 to get closer to him, while the rogue's stealth skill won't be very useful against groups of enemies, 
 at least until it is maxed out. But the good news is that all class combinations will allow you 
 to complete the game without too many problems.
  
  Arkane has perfectly used the great potential of the Source engine to create massive and engrossing 
 dungeons, as well the beautiful Stonehelm city architecture and great looking weather effects. 
 As a side note, several NPC models clearly could have been designed better  even on highest settings 
 Phenrig and Menelag look somewhat rusty. Also it could be interesting to find out why Leanna portrays 
 such a na&iuml; ve sounding girl with embarrassing miniskirt and big breasts? Initially we got similar 
 thoughts about Xana as well but after the beginning of the game she makes almost no physical appearance 
 and guides Sareth with her voice. Maybe for the better.
  
  Playing Dark Messiah one can really feel that the character voices were recorded by professional 
 actors  with a very few exceptions all of the spoken dialogues were perfectly recorded, especially 
 Arantir and Xana. The soundtrack is simply awesome though some of the themes make a too little 
 appearance and the only major combat soundtrack in the end started to get repetitive. One of the 
 most memorable moments was shortly after the beginning of the game when an undead Cyclops storms 
 through the city gate, everyone running away in panic and a great heroic music running in the background. 
 We wish there were more such moments that make you feel like running through a great action movie. 
 Clearly the game developers spared some of the best soundtracks for boss fights and the final battle.
 
  
  We experienced that the official minimum and maximum requirements to run the game were not quite 
 correct. We were able to get a decent performance with lowest settings on a computer that is below 
 minimum requirements. However, while trying to play on highest settings on a computer with the 
 recommended settings, we switched to the medium settings after some annoying lagging. We played 
 the game on almost all possible settings, starting from the very minimum up to the highest settings. 
 To our surprise, we couldnt notice a clearly visible difference if the texture detail was reduced 
 from high to medium, which helped to improve the performance greatly.
  
  In the multiplayer you can choose between several game modes: Crusade, Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch 
 and it has been confirmed that Capture the Flag mode will be delivered with the next patch and 
 so might be the Coliseum mode later as well. For everyones taste the player can choose his character 
 from five classes: fierce warrior focused on close combat and fast movement; tricky assassin that 
 loves to backstab his enemies from shadowy corners and setup traps; powerful archer that can ignite 
 his arrows and even shoot three arrows at the same time; cunning priestess who can either develop 
 her healing skills for defensive purposes or curse her enemies; and finally a classic mage whose 
 almighty spells can send anyone right to the Moon. While we were writing this review, the classes 
 still were pretty much unbalanced  lots of players have complained that the mage spell Lightning 
 Orb should be banned forever, that archers are superior to warriors in melee and that warriors 
 have become quite a weaklings. We tried to play only as a warrior and it was a painful experience 
  hopefully the planned tweaks in the next patch will balance the classes though Kuju was fully 
 aware of these problems since the early beta.
  
  By the time we publish this, Dark Messiah still suffers from major bugs after a first patch. A 
 lot of people experience crashes, poor performance and video glitches. Many fans feel that the 
 game was not yet ready to hit the shelves, and are waiting for further improvements. Another area 
 where Dark Messiah is lacking is in the level design area, as some levels are uninspired and repetitive. 
 A few locations include dead-ends that seem out of place, much like the closed doors in KOTOR 2: 
 The Sith Lords, as if unfinished sections of the map had been removed at the last minute. Still, 
 at the core is an impressive game that could possibly spawn a new spin-off series. Despite its 
 limited character development and its lackluster story, we cannot imagine a better first-person 
 adaptation of the world of Ashan. By letting you choose your own course of action, the game provides 
 a different view of the Might and Magic paradox. Celestial Heavens gives Dark Messiah (version 
 1.01) an 8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkablood
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe that gamespot, one of the great reviewers I can trust, made this unacceptable review.
 
  
  Honestly, this game is one of the funniest game I've ever played in my life. Let me explain why:
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  One of the biggest point of the game. You really feel that you're killing people, not only playing 
 a normal bloody game.
  The cinematics are well done too, really.
  
  * It doesn't even need a monster computer. However, you will have to download the first patch and 
 will have to change some options (Explained in the forums) to enjoy this game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  THAT is the biggest point of this game. If only Oblivion could have this system... 
 it would own anything.
  I've never feel something like this... you really have to play the game to understand his full 
 potential.
  (That's exactly why I won't tell you more, you will have to try it to understand ^^)
  
  * Being 
 an assasin, a mage, a warrior or a rogue have never been this fun.
  Trust me.
  
  STORY
  
  Not the best one, but an interesting one. With the cinematics being in first person, it adds 
 more action in the game.
  As I said earlier, you really feel the game.
  
  * Nothing more to add... except that I found myself enjoying the story.
  
  NEGATIVE POINTS
 
  
  Ten hours ( or less, depends of you) to finish the game.
  The store version is filled with some boring bugs... and the game is slow. ( Patches, patches, 
 forums forums ... and you'll be fine.)
  Maybe a little too easy ( Choose difficult and you should be right )
  .... .... Oh yeah, I almost 
 forgotL
  
  The multiplayer is awesome... as good as CS.
  
  This game is simply the best in his category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Yup ! True enough my personnel point of view is that this game is definitely under-rated by gamespot 
 . Amazing gameplay and graphic. I can say that Dark Messiah is on par with Oblivion . In fact , 
 some mission is even more
  interesting than Oblivion. I've get myself hook ever since . Especially , when you encounter the 
 Boss . It could certainly get your heart pumping as you try getting away from his clutches. Combine 
 with great sound effect and graphic . Truely , you will feel you're actually inside the game itself 
 . Awesome......! beyond words. U need to have a strong system with a powerful video card in order 
 to get the game going . But one might still experience some drop in frame rate or system hang . 
 This is one issue they need to straighten out .Which is the negative side of the game. Otherwise 
 , its great stuff . My advice is do upgrade your video card and ram . Otherwise , you won't enjoy 
 the game fully . The other negative side of this game is that . U need to have a steam account 
 or playlinc setup. Frankly speaking , I have hard time with steam
  ever since the days of BF2. As the downloading and updating of file take years to complete. But 
 thank 's goodness you won't experience get kick out or disconnected very often . Overall , this 
 game is up to standard . And
  I think hard core gamer should not miss it . Forget those negative comment
  judge yourself . 
 Don't just listen to one side story . For sure you won't live to regret . Try out the demo first 
 if you still have doubt . Of course , make sure you meet all the game requirement before you came 
 into conclusion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gedassan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The player is put on rails for most of the time in Dark Messiah, but these are pretty exciting 
 rails, so the ride is a fun one.
  
  Graphics are very good, combat animations are great, first person melee feels right (although really 
 limiting) , magic is powerful but scarce, archery is deadly, and stealth (hiding in shadows and 
 slicing throats) is my favorite part of the game. All styles are viable.
  
  All kinds of physical contraptions in levels allow one to use more varied ways to defeat enemies 
 than just using your preferred weapon/skill. This is not Halflife 2 (since Dark Messiah setting 
 is way more used and abused in games) , but almost that, except in a different setting. That means 
 it is an interactive movie-like experience. This, together with the first person melee combat and 
 various ways to achieve objectives, are the strongest parts of the game.
  
  Yes, there are bugs. The game is interesting enough to make me reload several times an hour and 
 proceed further with my quest. The 6,7 from Gamespot is an opinion of one person, and I do not 
 agree with it. I am sure innovation does not carry a heavy weight in Gamespot rankings, otherwise 
 it would be at least an 8,5 game. I am hooked as I was with Jedi Outcast and Halflife 2.
  
  Don't be scared of low Gamespot score and try the game. If you like a good action game which puts 
 you in the center of events with some cool options for carnage - you will be able to look past 
 some crashes to desktop to one of the best action games to come out this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgx
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The memory leak is the most noticeable. My system reset memory cache twice over a two week period 
 of playing this game. Load times are 6 minutes long. Whether in single player or multi player modes. 
 My system meets alll the higher recomended settings though I am now saving for a duo and new motherboard. 
 Hopefully patches will be released for Dark Messiah soon. Even with all the problems this is a 
 fun game to play. This game is so power intense I had a power supply blow on my other PC. Please 
 Ubisoft patch these problems. I don't understand how this game was approved during the testing 
 phase. It has far too many problems out of the box. I bought the collectors edition and love the 
 bounus items. I just wish I could play instead of having to find something to occupy me for the 
 six minutes of load time and this does count an additional load time from ingame loads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterch_sniper
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah isn't perfect, I get crashes here and there, but the game is still at least a rent. 
 It uses the Half Life 2 source engine and at full quality this game looks good, but not perfect.
 
  
  After awhile the game gets a little to easy from using the earth-fire sword and some of the other 
 spells, weapons and how high you get your skill level.
  
  GOOD: It looks good, and lobbing goblins in half is really fun, and so is kicking people off cliffs 
 and into fire or spikes.
  
  BAD: There are some graphical errors, and the crashes get really irritating.
  
  Rent it, then 
 see if you want to buy it, steam is a good place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  Coming out on October 24th of 2006, Dark Messiah of Might and Magic tries to bring new life into 
 an old flavor of role-playing game. Dark Messiah, developed by Arkane Studios tries to give the 
 player a unique first person experience with a rich story that will capture the attention of the 
 player from the beginning intro till the end. Unlike most conventional role-playing games of today, 
 Dark Messiah is set up in different consecutive levels which you must navigate through, building 
 up your characters statistics and equipment along the way to become stronger and more powerful 
 for all of the foes to come. But, does Arkane Studios succeeded in giving the player a unique role-playing 
 experience through which the manner that they tried? Read on and youll see.
  
  Using Valves Source powered engine, Arkane Studios brought the tradition that began back in 1987 
 and gave it some very much needed updated graphics with a top of the line combat system throughout 
 the game. But before all of that, they created a plot which revolves around the story of a Dark 
 Messiah who will come upon the Skull of Shadows and then either release the darkness that was trapped 
 inside the skull or take and use the powers himself. But, strangely enough, most of the details 
 of the story are supplied or pretty much given to the player within the first hour of gaming. Arkane 
 Studios could have used a little more foreshadowing in their storyline, instead of just giving 
 the plot away so straight forward, so early on. Thats not saying that its a bad story in any 
 means, but learning most of the story of the game in the players manual and also within the first 
 opening cinematic is a little unacceptable nowadays. The plotline follows the player as he goes 
 on a mission in the service of a powerful wizard to retrieve a crystal that will help lead them 
 to the all powerful Skull of Shadows. Along the way, their will be twists between the different 
 characters both helping and hindering you. All of the dialogue in the game is voiced, and while 
 being voiced does help the story progress, the voice acting isnt the best. In fact, the voice 
 acting sort of hampers the storyline because of how annoying it is; it makes it hard to pay attention 
 to the characters talking and what theyre talking about. The problems and situations that come 
 up just dont seem that bad when listening to the laughable voice acting. But enough of the that, 
 the story of Dark Messiah is decent enough to keep your interest throughout the game as you progress 
 through the chapters (levels) .
  
  Using the Source Engine which also powered Half Life 2, Arkane Studios brought the world of Might 
 and Magic alive with some great physics and some awesome combat. Even though the game is categorized 
 as a role-playing game, it really is an action oriented game. While the game does have some character 
 optimization with putting skill points in different areas to build up your character, and while 
 the choices do build upon certain powers of your character, the choices you make dont really make 
 your character standout as much as youd probably hope in a normal role-playing game. There are 
 three main classes to choose your skills from being Warrior, Mage, and Thief, but again, as you 
 progress through the game, youll find yourself choosing skills from all three classes where youll 
 end having pretty much the same character in the game each time you play it. Although, if youd 
 like, you could just stick to one class and only take skill points in that one, and then youll 
 have three different experiences throughout the game, but most likely, as you are given the choice 
 of the different skills, youll find yourself wanting more of a variety of those offered skills 
 than a set path, thus creating much of the same character each time through. One downside about 
 the skill points is how you earn, because you dont earn them by killing the different enemies 
 you come across, but by achieving the different objectives within the many levels of the game. 
 This can be nice, but it can also make you not want to spend as much time killing all the enemies 
 within a level before you progress. But back to the graphics that the Source Engine allows; this 
 game does look beautiful. The different levels look unique enough from each other where you dont 
 feel that anything was rehashed, but there are some downsides. The different characters and enemies 
 throughout the game look fantastic and very detailed, but some of the scenery, well, the texturing 
 looks a little blocky and dull. Thats not to say that all of the environments look bad, as a matter 
 of fact, most of the outside environments look superb, but there are just certain times when you 
 focus on something and notice that a texture is quite ugly. Weapons and spells in the game look 
 great also; there are quite a few spell effects that look great on a newer computer where the graphics 
 can shine and being in the first person point of view, you feel a true sense of personalization 
 with the action going on. And thats where this game shines, the combat. With the physics in the 
 Source Engine, Arkane Studios really made the combat in Dark Messiah come to life in all aspects 
 whether youre batting your opponent aside with your shield or throwing spells across the room. 
 Pretty much, wherever you are in the chapter, theres some part of the environment to use against 
 your enemy. Whether its a chair, or a barrel lying around, youre able to pick that up and throw 
 it at your enemy to inconvenience them while you assess the situation or battle at hand. There 
 are just so many ways to get rid of your opponents, such as; kicking them into a fire, kicking 
 them off a balcony, pushing them onto a spiked wall, driving your sword through their chest while 
 theyre down on the ground, using some sort of mechanism to catch them in a trap, and many more. 
 The environments are just so interactive. See a couple orcs walking around under an unstable balcony, 
 well, kick out a post of the balcony and have it collapse on top of them. Although there are many 
 traps conveniently set up throughout the different chapters, youll never get tired of setting 
 one off and watching a barrel bash an orc off a ledge to plunge hundreds of feet below. There are 
 just so many ways to have a little fun with your enemy and each time you play through, you can 
 try different techniques and ways to set the different traps off. Unlike more traditional role-playing 
 games, Dark Messiah is told in chapters (levels) , and is not open-ended in any way. And the chapters 
 that you play through are pretty linear where sometimes there are places where you can advance 
 through the level in a multiple ways, but those instances you could easily count on one hand throughout 
 the entire game. And those different paths really only bring you away from the main path for a 
 few moments before youre routed back to the end destination. Having a role-playing game told through 
 different levels is somewhat different and odd. Now Im not trying to compare this game to any 
 other, but in the recent past, role-playing games have done their best to be open-ended to the 
 player as much as they could. Games like The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, Gothic 3, and Neverwinter 
 Nights 2. Those are some of the bigger named role-playing games of this year, and while Oblivion 
 and Gothic 3 really do well on the subject of open-ended gameplay, Neverwinter Nights 2 tries its 
 best to provide that non-linearity and succeeds much more than Dark Messiah. I have to say that 
 the levels are decently fun, but the loading times and the way theyre broken up can take away 
 from the feel of the game. And much like Half Life 2s loading times during each level, Dark 
 Messiah shares this same fate. Whether its the weakness of the engine or what, halfway through 
 most levels and sometimes more than once in the level, youll come to a point where you see a flashing 
 icon on the screen and as you move forward, youll hit a loading screen where youll need to sit 
 for a few odd seconds for the rest of the level to load. These load times wouldnt be so obvious 
 and such an inconvenience if the rest of the level didnt have such great flow.
  
  There is a multiplayer component to the game that resembles that of Valves famous Counter-Strike. 
 Maybe the resemblance is because of it running off the same engine, but thats probably where the 
 resemblance stops, at least in the fun department. Arkane Studios tried to create a fast paced 
 multiplayer with the ability to have 32 players on the same map where each player can choose between 
 being a few different classes, such as a warrior, mage, priest, assassin, and an archer. While 
 each class plays differently from the next, youll pretty much find everyone in a multiplayer game 
 playing either an assassin or a mage. Those are two of the most popular classes and supposedly 
 two of the deadliest classes, accordingly to most players. Arkane Studios shipped a few different 
 maps with the multiplayer and players will be able to create more once the SDK is released, but 
 as of yet, nothing has been released to the public. Just the same as single player, as you progress 
 and do well in multiplayer, you gain skill points and can raise the powers and skills of your character, 
 making him more powerful, but if youre just getting into the multiplayer, getting skill points 
 can be quite hard because of how good everyone is online, but stick to it and youll get some soon 
 enough. While the multiplayer is run through the Steam Engine, there are nowhere near as many servers 
 running for it as Counter-Strike, but this game is newly released and needs time. Will it have 
 the same popularity as Valves massive multiplayer game? I dont think so, because in Counter-Strike, 
 after a round is over, there seemed to be some of recognition and fulfillment when you win, but 
 with Dark Messiah, after you die, you just respawn and try to go at it again until time runs out. 
 There are a couple different multiplayer game types, but really they just boil down to the same 
 style over and over again. When you connect to the server, you get a choice between playing on 
 the red or blue side, being human or the undead, but there is no difference besides the skin of 
 the character so feel free to play who you want.
  
  The game was released with a few bugs attached. While playing, I couldnt have AA turned on because 
 sometimes when loading a new level, the game would crash to desktop and even though it wouldnt 
 happen every time a level was loaded, you could always count on it happening when you least expect 
 it. The game also had a problem when you first started up and the game set the optimal graphics 
 level off of your installed hardware. When it did for me, everything was on high with high textures 
 included, and while this was nice, I had quite a bit of stuttering and the stuttering wouldnt 
 go away until I turned the textures down to medium. I wasnt the only person that had this problem. 
 Many people with systems much better than mine also had this problem and had to turn their textures 
 down and these people had top of the line computers. In the end, this is a pretty decent game if 
 youre looking for a combat oriented action game. Arkane Studios succeeds in giving the player 
 a fun gameplay experience but at the cost of the actual role-playing component and a dismal multiplayer 
 experience. The game environments, and also the characters, look great and the Source Engine still 
 shines after being out for a couple years. If youre not looking for a role-playing game, then 
 you wont be disappointed, but if you thought that you could build a unique character with different 
 skills, then you might want to look elsewhere. The game shipped with just a few bugs and a patch 
 is already out to fix some of the problems, and it does seem like Arkane Studios wants to try their 
 best to improve this game for the player, so no worries there. If you want some of the best combat 
 in any game out today, this would be your game. Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 7
  Story/Plot: 8
  Replay Value: 7
  Stability: 8
  Multiplayer: 7
  
  Overall: 7.96 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrhk
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah sets you off in a action tutorial demo that has you hacking away at enemies straight 
 away, giving you a sense of what most of the game is about. The entire game is based around a series 
 of linear chapters that have you running around killing monsters and solving some really simple 
 puzzles. The levels are really linear but there are a couple of secret spots that aren't too hard 
 to find. In all it's easy to know exactly what's happening since there aren't many places to go. 
 The plot is stupid and transparent and isn't helped by the bland voice acting. Although Xana makes 
 annoying quips as the GS review says, their actually enjoyable and well acted unlike the other 
 characters. There isn't any real character building. You get a couple of skill points each time 
 you complete an objective and invest them in a series of abilities ranging from improved melee 
 abilities or magical attacks. The magic is somewhat anticlimactic in theres no real sense of destruction 
 and the ranged attacks seem somewhat lame as well. However melee is where everything becomes worthwhile. 
 There are a couple of options for hacking away at an enemy, a quick short swipe or a charged up 
 swipe hat can be changed depending on what direction your holding down. Then you also have your 
 leap attack, whirlwind attack and blocking. In all it's much more in depth than say oblivion. The 
 graphics are absolutely superb and I haven't noticed any major technical glitches. The graphics 
 may not be as good as Oblivion but it can hold especially in the dungeons where the slimy walls 
 are accentuated by the excellent use of specularity. There's nothing special about the sound, it's 
 just kind of in the background. Some of the one liners do get annoying but more often than not 
 I'm too focused in on hacking up my opponents to notice the sound effects. In all this is a fun, 
 easy, simple and quick game to play. There's not much depth to the game but the pure nonstop action 
 continues to stay interesting for the entire game making it a very enjoyable experience. It's not 
 worth the money your paying for it now but if you ever find it for say $20 then by all means, pick 
 it up and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CX360Trunks
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  WoW this game has the best controlls I have ever seen, this game has great graphics, and the story 
 is nicely put together, I can't stop playing it. Well the Game does have it up and downs, The enemys 
 are inovative and has a great AI system, they made them very smart and also very stupid. This game 
 their is alot of thinking involved. You have to think of strategic way to kill the oponent. Its 
 not just point and shot tactics. Their is alot of traps, and alot of ways to kill your oponent, 
 that is what I think is the best part of the game. You can burn them, stab them freese them, throw 
 them, ect. This is a best buy, and im still playing the game. Everytime I go throw the game its 
 different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  this is got to be the best mix of FPS and RPG i will ever see. the pub brawl style combat (of which 
 the fighting system is flawless) is so satisfying and hilarious you'll just play parts over, and 
 over, and over agian.
  the adrenaline attacks are the best death sequences i have ever seen in an FPS, for the people 
 that dont know what im going on about, the adrenaline is filled up by killing enemies and when 
 the bar is full, you can perform a finishing move which is gloriously satisfying, like driving 
 your sword through an orc, pushing him to the ground and kicking him off your sword in a cloud 
 of blood. next, the blood, O. M. G!! soooo much blood! whack an enemy with a staff an watch them 
 crawl away in fear! just before you drive an axe through thier skull. now, the bad points, this 
 game is hard. really hard. even on easy im struggling, and ive had it for over a month and i still 
 cant get past the crypt (about half way through the game)
  and there are some bugs that i have picked up on. one, which probably effects gameplay somewhat, 
 is where you use an adrenaline attack on an enemy, then they just get up agian! an this was on 
 an orc so it is definatly a one hit kill but they just get up and keep fighting.
  the idea for the guys to use the source wngine was just marvolous, i couldnt get 3/4 of my kills 
 without it!. just pushing people into spikes and hitting them with barrels isnt even scrathing 
 the surface of what it can do.
  eg. a grup of orcs is rushing at you from the top of the stairs, what do you do?
  you cast n 
 ice spell on the stairs and vola! they all fall down while breaking thier necks, crunch!
  i would buy this game even if your not a fan of the ol' sword swingers. i aint a sword swinger 
 and i love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pemobian
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  I waited for this game for a long time . . . essentially since the demo was released. After playing 
 said demo, it was hard for me to imagine how the final product would be anything less than fantastic. 
 Unfortunately, the latest Might and Magic offering feels like a great idea with great promise that 
 was placed in the hands of lazy developers.
  
  Before proceeding with the good and the bad, let me say a few words about all the comparisons to 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Namely, Dark Messiah is like Oblivion in the same way the Hitman games 
 are like the Grand Theft Auto series. You may wander around with similar weapons and with the same 
 general goals of causing mayhem, solving puzzles and killing people, but the similarities end there. 
 Dark Messiah and Oblivion are two drastically different types of games, with the former being a 
 first-person action story and the latter being a fully-blown RPG. It can be said that DM's combat 
 is superior to Oblivion's, but then I would hope so. It's newer, has linear levels, and is 100% 
 based around fighting; Oblivion, on the other hand, offers an immersive do almost anything experience 
 and an open world. So in short, don't try and compare the two games. They fall into different genres 
 and should not be considered similar just because both have you wielding swords, shields and magic.
 
  
  Now, on to Dark Messiah.
  
  Things begin to look fishy early on when the entire plot is revealed to you minutes into the game. 
 Foreshadowing can be a powerful tool in the hands of a skilled writer, as it allows one to hint 
 at things to come, building up a sense of dread that something is going to happen but leaves the 
 faintest glimmer of hope that disaster will be averted. Also, an author may choose to use foreshadowing 
 for misdirection, for making the reader, viewer or gamer think something is going to happen only 
 to build up to a clever twist.
  
  Dark Messiah does neither of those things. It almost literally begins the story by telling you 
 how it's going to end. This doesn't have any real effect on the entertainment aspect of the game's 
 action, but it reinforces the fact that you're just slogging through a hack-n-slash bloodbath instead 
 of making your way through an intriguing plot.
  
  The gameplay, while generally good, has its quirks as well. Your character (Sareth) , though rendered 
 with full-body awareness, runs with stiff arm movements that make him look like a bad robot dancer 
 from the 1980s. It's not a game-killing issue, but it makes you wonder why the developers could 
 not have put a little more time into the animation. Also, there are a few points in the game (normally 
 at places that feature something you have to climb over) where Sareth gets stuck on something that 
 should not be an obstacle. It's frustrating, especially in combat, when you have to back up and 
 make a second attempt at scaling a platform or ledge.
  
  On a related subject, some of the puzzles in the game are absurd nods to FPS experiences from the 
 distant past. By that I mean you are presented with pathetic sequences where you must jump across 
 precipitous drops, reloading save-games again and again as you try to get the timing just right. 
 In other places you must use your rope bow to climb ledges, and occasionally you'll find yourself 
 jumping from rope to rope, chain to chain, as you climb and try to find the specific path the designers 
 have laid out. Seriously, DM is a 2006 release. Hasn't the gaming industry progressed far enough 
 that we can eliminate the tools of artificial, time-wasting difficulty -- such as jumping puzzles 
 -- in exchange for real gameplay?
  
  Graphically, the game is beautiful, but once more it falls short of what it could have been. The 
 environments and textures easily rival the best out there, but there are far too many instances 
 of seams showing (i. e. gaps between the polygons of 3D objects) . I would expect such mistakes in 
 a budget title, but not in a huge game from Arkane Studios and Ubisoft. Did the designers somehow 
 not notice that the top of one of their Spider Temple stairways is not connected to the corridor, 
 or did they not care?
  
  In the broader sense, I have had a few crashes to desktop over the course of playing, but DM seams 
 reasonably stable outside of the in-game graphical glitches. (Belatedly, I must revise the previous 
 statement, as the game has crashed nearly a dozen times during the final two levels. Maybe it isn't 
 so stable, after all. . . .)
  
  There is a class-based multiplayer component to Dark Messiah, which is cool in theory, but it sucks 
 in practice. Unlike in the campaign, the multiplayer sound is horrendous. In melee combat especially, 
 half of the time you can't even tell you're being hit except for your rapidly draining health meter. 
 Archers and mages seem extremely powerful in comparison to warriors, though assassins can gain 
 the ability to turn almost completely invisible (which is unbalanced and ridiculous in its own 
 right) .
  
  Worst of all, the multiplayer system is powered via Steam, meaning you must install the Steam software 
 and verify your serial number through it before you can even launch DM in multiplayer mode. This 
 is a buggy, annoying process that no one who has paid for a game should be subjected to. To add 
 insult to injury, once Steam is installed and DM activated thereby, you still cannot run the multiplayer 
 game without Steam running in the background. But this is all academic, because it's hardly worth 
 playing DM online anyway.
  
  Despite all its faults, I cannot bring myself to say that Dark Messiah is a bad game or even a 
 broken one. It has problems, and I think the story is a lackluster effort, but it is fun to play 
 through once. Other makers of first-person melee games (like Bethesda) can take some lessons from 
 the combat model Arkane Studios has created. The fights in the single-player campaign are brutal, 
 bloody, realistic and very entertaining. Even though you pretty much know what is going to happen, 
 there's just enough of a story to keep you going, and the cut-scenes are implemented nicely. The 
 voice-acting is passable, and unlike some people I've found myself thoroughly amused by Xana's 
 dialogue (you'll know what I mean if you play) .
  
  Maybe a few patches in the ensuing months will notch this game up a bit, but at the moment it is 
 an experience that will leave you marveling at what could have been but was not. It's worth playing, 
 but I suggest waiting for the price to drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacius
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  i found myself having lots of fun with this game! the graphics are very nice, and i am very impressed 
 by them. of course compared to other games they are not as good, but it they are still excellent. 
 the game play is nice, and i am very impressed by it. i didn't think that i was going to like the 
 way that it worked as much as i did. i felt that a FPS like this (very similar to oblivion) wasn't 
 going to be quite as nice as it actually is. the swordplay as well as the bow is quite amazing. 
 this game doesn't get the credit that it deserves. i really wish that people would get more into 
 it. the rating seems a little low compared to how i believe it should be. this is an excellent 
 game that everyone should play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike04016
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Overall Dark Messiah is a fun game. I do wonder why the requirements are so high. The graphics 
 are good, but the requirements are pretty extreme. There are a couple bugs, especially in multiplayer, 
 but you get used to them.
  
  Let's start with the single player shall we? The first thing I have to mention is the storyline. 
 Awesome. The ending wasn't as good as I was hoping, and it kind of left me wanting to continue 
 the game considering the final decision is kind of vague. (It's hard to explain without giving 
 away anything, but if you played like me, and you got into the storyline, you&amp;#8217; ll know 
 what I mean.) The combat system really requires some thought; it isn't just a hack and slash style. 
 For the most part you'll be using power attacks, and occasionally swing blindly at certain enemies. 
 Kicking is useful and is important through-out the entire game, but as you get better you rely 
 more on your favorite power attack than a kick. It does take some getting used to, but later on 
 it gets pretty instinctive. My only real problem with the single player is that it doesn't pause 
 when you go into the inventory/skills selection window. What this means is that if you don't have 
 a shield equipped, it's not in your belt (a couple of items bound to the number keys) , and you 
 get into a large battle: tough. Okay, I lied; there is another thing that bothers me about the 
 single player. You are given absolutely no direction. You get no map, and your objectives are extremely 
 vague. I have a perfect example. Let me set the scene for you. You&amp;#8217; re walking along pretty 
 far into the game. You have the objective Find the exit and escape , so you're wandering around 
 looking for exit. All of a sudden a giant worm-thing comes out of the ground. The complete randomness 
 of the situation is lost to utter confusion. You facing a giant enemy that can poison you (makes 
 you a little blurry and drains your health until your down to 5, unless you have an antidote) and 
 your only direction dealing with the beast is Escape the Giant Worm . It's kind of frustrating. 
 Spiders. Nasty little things, aren't they? Well in Dark Messiah they became my most hated enemy. 
 They poison you every hit. Pretty annoying for a warrior like myself. And stabbing an enemy occasionally 
 misses (I had to throw that in there) .
  
  On to multiplayer! My first concern, as I'm sure was shared by other people, regarded the leveling 
 system. Your level gets reset every match (or crusade if your playing crusade mode like I always 
 do) . It's not that bad. It prevents people from stat padding, and it makes the world a little fairer 
 for people who don't play the game 24/7. Another thing that could be either a pro or a con depending 
 on your opinion, is the amount of people playing. Not too many people play. I know the screen names 
 of a lot of people who play in the same servers as me (due to preferences and latency) . It's kind 
 of cool, because you pretty much know who's good and who's bad, and what teams they play on. The 
 only problem is, there are often times when every server with a low latency is empty. Multiplayer 
 has a couple bugs. Backstabbing for an assassin is often extremely glitchy, although there are 
 some pretty good assassins so it kind of balances it out. Speaking of balanced, a good mage after 
 a few maps in a crusade is extremely good. They get giant ball of death that either kill everything 
 that comes near them or creates a giant explosion that will set everything in its path on fire 
 which rarely stops unless you get healed by a priestess. I don't mind the mages too much, but this 
 causes a lot of people to play as mages and all of those explosions can get on your nerves, and 
 can make the game laggy.
  
  All in all, the game is fun and is almost definitely worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPSGunnerDude
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is hard to describe, since I know of no other game quite like it. It's mostly like a 
 combo of many great games. It has elements of Half Life, Thief, RPGs, and is quite a bang for the 
 buck.
  
  As far as repetitive combat as said by the Gamespot reviewer, that is just plain wrong. Depending 
 on how you build, equip, or use your character it seems almost endless how you can dispose of your 
 enemy: Engaging swordplay, magic, archery, backstab, a steel hook, environmental traps and things 
 to throw at the enemy, kick them into spikes or off cliffs. Now how the heck is that repetitive? 
 It just makes no sense. Sure, if you do the same one thing over and over then it's repetitive, 
 but if you do that then you just don't get the game and what it offers.
  
  As for the bugs mentioned, I haven't had a single bug while playing. But, I do empathize with those 
 who did because that can certainly spoil even the greatest game. I think the latest patch has addressed 
 most of them, and I would advise the recommended system or better to help avoid any bugs and get 
 the most out of the graphics.
  
  Graphics and sounds are awesome and never seem to get old, even as I am on my third time playing 
 it. Also, how you mold your player provides a completely different fighting experience the next 
 time through.
  
  Any fan of shooters will love this game as a change of pace from the standard fare. I can't speak 
 for fans of RPGs though, since I'm not one. But, I would have to recommend this game very highly 
 for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melfencik
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Seriously fun action, Good variety of locations, the only game in its genre.
  The Bad: Very buggy, needed a few more weeks in development, graphics not as good as they could 
 have been, Terrible story.
  
  Dark Messiah has been one of the games on my wish list for a long time. The trailers looked great 
 and i had been waiting for a game with a fantasy setting with good combat. I LOVED the demo and 
 I simply could'nt wait. So did the game live up to its expectations. Well... yes and no. The combat 
 is as good if not better than i had hoped for. All the melee combat is very well designed although 
 there are only three types of weapons swords, daggers and staffs and is very fun. There are many 
 different moves such as power strikes and jump strikes and the source engine works perfectly for 
 them.
  
  On the other hand it is incredibly buggy and the storyline is aweful. The game crashes and various 
 points and there is bug when it is put on high textures that makes it take about ten minutes to 
 load. There are some very ugly textures paticularly for instance with ropes and spells. Also the 
 story is terrible. At the risk of spoiling the story i could guess the twists by reading the back 
 of the box and im sure most other players did too. Most of the characters are badly developed and 
 in my opinion it shouldnt have had a story at all.
  
  As for enviroment and locations the enviroments are the highlight of the graphics and look stunning. 
 There is a good variety of locations although unfortunatley there isnt a great variety of enemies. 
 There are orcs, goblins, necromancers and mercenarys and thats about it. They all have a distinctly 
 different feel and are all incredibly fun to fight.
  
  There is also a smally developed skill tree. There have been complaints about how limited this 
 is but more than anything just a way to be able to play through the game many different times. 
 All in all this is a very good game that is definantley worth a look but could have used a little 
 more fine tuning. But if your an action fan wanted Half-Life 2, Oblivion with a little bit of Deus 
 Ex you have found what your looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hannoo-FX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I waited long time for that game after watching the trailers, the screenshot.. etc.. I was very excited 
 and the game didn't let me down
  
  1st of all... the SOUND effects are phenomenal from the very beginning of the game, the music is 
 almost perfect to make you live in the game
  
  Gameplay... hmm.. what should I say.. amazing, unbelievable, intense... all these words and still the 
 action and combat is the best seen in any action or hack and slash game so far.. at least for me.. puts 
 Oblivion to shame.
  
  I am not gonna comment on the graphics.. Source engine has the best special effects and hit res 
 textures.. and they modified the lighting a lot in dark messiah as it is almost dynamic now with 
 light sources.
  
  Don't ever miss this game if you are an action, hack and slash or fantasy fan like me... it will 
 give you what you really waited for as fas as fantasy action gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The Might and Magic series has had its ups and downs in the game industry. From the first Might 
 and Magic roleplaying games, to the fabulous HOMM turn-based strategy games (one of my all-time 
 favourite hot seat games) to the absolutely pitiful Crusaders of Might and Magic. When 3DO had 
 to close down, the franchise moved to other game developers, and Arkane used the Might and Magic 
 brand, together with the great Source game engine for a first person action roleplaying game; Dark 
 Messiah.
  Did they succeed? Yes and no.
  
  The game itself uses some of the game mechanics from the Thief games (the very game that defined 
 the first person sneaker genre) combined with some of Oblivions fighting mechanics. Which works 
 rather well, as the game also has its own trademark fighting feature: The kick.
  While kicking isn't exactly new to computer games (like RTCW, and for that sake, Diablo) the physical 
 aspect of the kick is utilized to maximum effect.
  In other words - now you can kick enemies off cliffs, or barrels at enemies or... many other things. 
 In fact the gamer can use the physics in just about any perceivable way - from cutting robes, kicking 
 supporting pillars or squishing small spiders under your boots. Half Life 2 used physics in a similar 
 way, but DM emphazises the use of the Sources engines physics.
  
  DMs story is basically entertaining - with some twists and turns. But ultimately what makes the 
 game entertaining, and sets it apart from other offerings, is the gothic scenery. Especially the 
 large catacombs in the game has a certain atmosphere, that will stick to memory after the game 
 is finished.
  
  And about the lenght of the game - its somewhat short, although I didn't feel it needed to be any 
 longer. I guess most gamers will be able to finish it in less than 10 hours; and frankly, aside 
 from the nice graphics, theres not much to return for in the single player game. Of course the 
 game has a multiplayer game - developed by Kuju - but I will not review it here, because 1) I normally 
 don't play multiplayer games over the net and 2) It didn't work all to great when I played through 
 the game.
  
  And about the stability of the game: Its not.
  
  I had several issues with the game while playing it. First and foremost the game crashed - very 
 often - while loading the levels. This is a confirmed bug in the DM forums; but as of yet they 
 haven't patched it (but they do recommend using a  0 'launch 
 option' command string)
  On my system I could fix by setting the AA and AF through the Nvidia control panel, instead of 
 in the in-game menu. (On my 8800 GTS, the game could easily be run at 1280*1024, 8*Q AA, 16*AF 
 with every setting at max. At that setting the game looks great)
  
  Secondly the GFX high detail settings wouldn't save itself, and had to be manually set each and 
 every time i started the game (the difference between medium and high level is very large, and 
 can be seen on the detail level of surfaces) - this is a minor point, but somewhat annoying.
  
  Some random MM. engine CTDs also appeared, but most of them was circumvented using the above 
 AA+AF trick, at least on my system. Looking through the forums you'll probably see more, but the 
 general impression is, that this is one the most unstable releases I've seen in years. It feels 
 like the Beta testing has been cut short at the expense of the consumers.
  
  This is of course a major point in reviewing the game, at the same time I'll have to add, that 
 when I got the game working without the crashes, it was great fun and a fine example of its game 
 genre.
  By the way - many have compared this game to CRPG games like Oblivion. IMO that is wrong - Oblivion 
 is definately a roleplaying game, with a non-linear approach to the world. DM is linear fighting 
 game with a few roleplaying elements. There are no other paths in DM than the story path, while 
 Oblivion have an in-depth skill system, and detailed game world, as well as many different missions 
 and stories besides the main story. I'll recommend buying the game after its patched to 1.02 or 
 above, which should be soon after this review and probably before the time you read this review.. 
 :)
  
  Note: I strongly disagree with the Gamespot review of this game. The review seems to be focused 
 on the negative aspects of the game, and calling 'great death animations' the only highpoint of 
 this game is IMO ridiculous. Obviously other highpoints could be 'great physics', 'good level design', 
 'nice graphics' to name a few. The many stability issues as well as the somewhat annoying voice 
 of a certain demon, drags the game down... but not to a 6.7 rating IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erratis
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  I decided to get this game even though it got some low reviews, because Im an RPG fan. The gameplay 
 isnt too bad, I have seen much better in my time. At times it just feels chunky I guess is the 
 best way to put it. The menu bar at the bottom is a little different from other games, by having 
 to use the middle mouse button to access it, unless you can map it to a different button, I havent 
 looked yet. But after a while I got used to it. The story in this game was a little bland, and 
 unsatisfying, they could have spent a little more time in this area.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are pretty good. Not the best in games today, but fans of RPGs are in it most of 
 the time for the story anyway. Sound:
  
  The sounds and music are actually not too bad. I normally can tell they are bad when a sound start 
 annoying me and I have to turn it off or play my own music in the background, I havent found myself 
 doing this yet.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  Once the game is done, I dont see myself playing it again, unless they come out with different 
 content for it. The story isnt good enough, or there isnt enough options in the game to warrant 
 me to play it again.
  
  Recommend ? :
  
  I would recommend it to RPG fans, who are looking for something to pass the time. This isnt the 
 next blockbuster game, so if youre looking for that, this isnt it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aqua_Life_swe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the screenshots to this game in a gaming newspaper I was pretty interested. When 
 I read on about what it was supposed to include I was pretty much sure I'd get it. The demo came 
 out and I must have played through it 50+ times, loved every single minuite of it. It was released 
 and I instantly got it, played it through over a weekend and loved every single minuite of it, 
 even though a couple of bugs and pretty annoying fps spikes hamperd my progress. Story:-
  I personally loved the story, the way you could choose pretty much exactly how to play your char 
 and change what was going to happend. Seldomly I've seen a game reward beeing good (as opposed 
 to evil) as well as Dark Messiah. Maby it wasn't as hard to figuir out what would happend next 
 a few times, but I still think it was pretty supprising and interesting all the way through. The 
 little things like the sword you find close to the elevator in one of the latter maps, the girl 
 and your guide . I think it really contributes and makes the story something great - which ever 
 path you choose to follow. Saving the world just never gets old. Ever. Graphics, sound:-
  I think the gfx in this game is really good. Great textures, good models and great sound. I basically 
 have nothing to complain about!
  
  Gameplay:-
  I've never seen a game take such advantage of physics and it's got such a lovely battle system. 
 Some might complain that the gameplay is too linear, but that's just not the case. You can do pretty 
 much anything your mind can conjour without beeing dissapointed with the outcome. The mappers have 
 done a great job to make sure you've got as much freedome as you would have in a world with 10 
 square miles of crap. It never ever botherd me that you had to go from A to B, because you could 
 take how many stops along the way as you liked. Some also complains about the battlesystem, that 
 that's all there is through the game, the same repetetive fights over and over. Well, if they had 
 just a tad bit of imagination they'd be having just as much fun as I was. I mean, I found myself 
 laughing my arse of from time to time just because of the wonderful battlesystem. The only thing 
 I think bring this game down is the bugs and glitches. [spoiler] I chose to cleanse Xana from my 
 body, but when she was gone I could still hear her until the next loading screen. [/spoiler] The 
 only time it crashed for me was when I was going to kill a pack of orcs about 3/4 into the game. 
 Every time I chopped their heads off it crashed, but to fix that I just loaded an earlier save 
 and replayed 1min of gametime. I understand other people have had it worse, but wait for a patch 
 and read some posts on the forum and you'll probably be allright. But the most annoying thig is 
 that one in 20 of my quickloads my fps will drop from 30 to 1 and won't stop until I restart the 
 game. Restarting takes about ten minuites, so yea, It's kinda' a big deal. But I don't really mind, 
 because you always need to take breaks and walk about once in a while. Tho' it's real annoying 
 when you're really immersed in the gameplay. Also the combat system rewards skill and finesse oh-so 
 well, gotta love it. :)
  
  Basically:-
  I have no idae what IGN, Gamespy and Gamespot were smoking when they rated it this low. It basically 
 destroyed my thoughts about this beeing a good website that gave honest rates. Great game. Play 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djames216
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  I'm a great believer in buying a game and expecting it to work. I'm not asking for much. Dark Messiah 
 is plainly not a game that was ready to ship. I realise that it works fine for a lot of people 
 too. But who in their right mind woould want to gamble on whether a game will work on thier system 
 or not. Its simply unnacceptable. I jumped through a few hoops (as Jeff Gerstman likes to call 
 it) to try and get this game to even start. I eventually got the game started, only to find it 
 crashing to desktop at the end of the first level. A problem that was not solved by their first 
 patch either. The buildup and coverage of this game before it was released seemed so positive and 
 upbeat, but it has been sorely let down by releasing an incomplete build.
  
  I set the difficulty to Very Hard because I found it very difficult to start playing the game because 
 of its numerous technical flaws. And I set the learning curve to 4 or more hours beacuse I spent 
 at least 4 hours (if not more) trawling the tech support forums, installing an older driver for 
 my card and god knows what else to get it working.
  
  A game that was released too early and is broken for many players as a result (even with patching) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampiredust99
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah: Might and Magic is a fantasy FPS that casts you in the role of the apprentice Sareth, 
 who starts off in search of a magical artefact and quickly becomes involved in a plot involving 
 necromancers and a mysterious prophecy.
  
  The story is told over ten large chapters, with cut scenes at key points of the story. Each of 
 the chapters is set in a different location and these are well designed. Being powered by an enhanced 
 version of Valves Source engine (the same engine used for Half Life 2) gives the game great graphics 
 and physics. Youll be fighting in locations like caverns, a ship and a mysterious temple. Each 
 one feels realistic and the objects move accurately when picked up and thrown.
  
  The enemies, like the gameplay is varied. Youll fight cyclops, spiders, orcs, goblins, to name 
 but a few. The game gives you several ways to kill them. There are numerous weapons and spell scrolls 
 scattered throughout the level, in addition to obstacles such as spikes and fire that littered 
 throughout the levels. Pressing F lets you kick, which can be fun. You can kick your enemy into 
 spikes, over cliffs, into flames. Completing objectives gives you skill points which can use to 
 upgrade your skills. These are divided into 3 classes: warrior, magic and stealth. You can have 
 a mix of skills or depending on your favourite style, spend them on a single type. Completing optional 
 objectives gets you bonus skill points. Sound in Dark Messiah is great. Voices have been done well 
 and each object sounds like should when moved or thrown, environments sound realistic. The orchestral 
 theme is atmospheric and helps create a suitably dark and moody feeling. The only downside to the 
 game is its length. Single player can be completed in 15 hours. There is multiplayer, but thats 
 it. Dark Messiah is an entertaining game thats worth buying if youre after a game thats action 
 packed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiVader2005
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Don&amp;#8217; t listen to the bad critics. Dark Messiah is a very enjoyable game. Since this runs 
 on the Half Life 2 engine, the graphics and the physics are great. It is good to see a different 
 approach on the FPS genre. For everyone who is tired of machine guns and killing robots, Dark Messiah 
 delivers some great close range combat with orcs, ghouls, giant spiders, etc. There are a lot of 
 weapons and spells to choose from, so you hardly get bored. The levels are nicely drawn, with lot 
 of traps, secret areas and goodies to be found. The skills points are actually a bit scarce, but 
 you will find lots of great weapons instead. I personally love the fire sword and the ice bow. 
 I think Dark Messiah is a great game for everyone who likes FPS. For the RPG fan, DM may be a bit 
 short on spells and statistics. Go and get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamikazeee
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  From the first level i whos a bit angry at the loading, why does it needs so much time to load??.. 
 anyways I didnt find tu much bugs in the game. The storyline is good. From the begining you dint 
 know anything. you just go on your given task and dont know whats fallows, a bit of mystery. And 
 I really liked that girl in my head, that voice whas a good companion. the story begins as you 
 are doing a task for your mage master and it involvs you into the story, that explains your family 
 truth, At the first you need to choice who will you be, a warior or a mage, then you can't be boothe, 
 then you will be a very weak one. the game is worth to try, but the loading time and some glitches 
 aren't nice (for a. the fireball is so big in your hands, that you can see anything else of it) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlycube
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Besides saying this is a great game, there is nothing much to tell!
  For those who haven't played Dark Messiah, I just want to say to don't expect a RPG. Dark Messiah 
 is a FPS with RPG elements, in my opinion. And that's what makes this game a MUST PLAY!
  Amazing Graphics, one of the best combat systems I've experienced in comparison to many other FPS, 
 and of course the RPG elements that allows you to go back to the Dungeons &amp; Dragons stories.
 
  I can assure you that once you get your hands to Dark Messiah you will only stop playing when 
 it&acute; s over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchoote
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  I shall begin with announcing that the game uses HL2 engine, which in my opinion is good but not 
 so oustanding compared to other engines (aoe3, doom..) .. some people find it the best though so 
 i mentioned it.
  
  Dark Messiah of Might and Magic is a role-playing game. There is minimal role-playing though and 
 the game is mainly based on action, which is mostly very satisfactin. why i say mostly? becouse 
 the game is very poorly coded and with the graphics being outdated i find it incredible that the 
 game lags.
  passed the lag issue come the bugs and various gliches that makes your brain boil; not only you 
 have to fight against very smart opponents (the AI is done quite well) but you have to pause the 
 game all the time due to slow downs that makes the game unplayable or some bugs.
  
  the gameplay is well enough without taking in consideration some utterly stupid UI conclusions. 
 enemies fly into the water after a well placed kick, piles of boxes fall upon the enemies after 
 cutting down a rope... the game has incorporated to the hl2 engine physics that affect the gameplay. 
 and its very funny and makes the battles more fun that for example oblivion, that is the immediate 
 comparison. various gliches makes even the battles irritading though.
  
  i mentioned oblivion, not becouse the games are similar but becouse they have a same core- gameplay. 
 the games are very different though: in oblivion you are free to go anywhere and its a clear role 
 game.. in dark messiah you have these missions (or chapters) where you have a tube modelled with 
 rocks, you start at one side and end to the other. oblivion was a piece of art and dark messiah, 
 after it's nice promises remains a  
::::::

::::::
UserName: popovicsasa
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Hi everybody :)
  
  My name is Sasha.
  
  I was so happy when I sow this video game in store. I rush it and buy it.
  But when i installed 
 it on my PC, there was BIG suprise.
  So far the game is less then i have expected.
  The DMMM is playeble but it has so so so many BUGS that is boring.
  
  Just if you want to ahve 
 fun a little bit take it but better is to rent it not to buy it.
  
  Ubisoft iam so disappointed in you gays.. Prince of Persia - MASTERPIECE, this one I don't no maybe 
 you just published to soon.
  
  And for end it is not to bad to play it but ubisoft MUST put patches ASAP..
  
  We are waiting 
 so we can play it nice and smooth. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  I wanted so much to love this game, in terms of it being a FPS in a fantasy hack and slash realm. 
 Also I must include the multiplayer, which Oblivion sorely lacked. Oh, and I cannot forget the 
 ever stable source engine.
  
  Well, the last two seriously needs work, this title is probably one of the worst uses of the Source 
 that I have seen to date. It takes attrociously long to load, I realize that patches may fix this, 
 and in some means some of the latest patches fixed some of the smaller nagging issues, but for 
 now my review will be based on the version initally released.
  
  Single Player: To use one word to sum up the storyline, linear . The big saving grace is the ability 
 to make up the type of character you want, and you can pretty much make a hybrid with all of the 
 feats in front of you, but pretty much you will be at one point in time, you will be using a skill 
 because you have to.
  
  The battles are fun, especially the boss battles, with their gargantuan size, and amount of threat. 
 Those boss areas do show the high points in the game.
  
  Multiplayer: Definitely not epic, or battlefield-esque. If the load times didn't drive me completely 
 bonkers from this point, a problematic bug where loading between maps would crash the game, ( a 
 patch has fixed this problem I must add) . But to the gameplay, I found it to be pretty simplistic 
 to play as all class espeically the warrior, and wizard. with the wizard once you reached to the 
 point of gettng the Lightning Orb, the game was pretty much over to the adversary facing you. Otherwise 
 pretty fast pace, but don't expect any battles out of the movie Braveheart .
  
  Audio: Clashing of swords, neat spell sounds, and some nice effects. The game was used well with 
 my X-Fi soundcard.
  
  Graphics: Other than the load bar when on the load screen being in the wrong position. Even though 
 my resolution is spot on, and refresh rate as well. Even set on medium textures once again it takes 
 too long to load in a game. Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter I could see the reason why it took 
 so long load a map at ultra settings. In that game I had extraordinary long view distances, and 
 great effects. With Dark Messiah, I didn't see that in fact at high texture settings on with all 
 set at high the game just doesn't have the pretty, and the same abnoxiously long load times.
  
  In closing, I won't compare the experiences to Oblivion, just due to both being like apples, 
 and oranges. I am dissapointed in the quality of Dark Messiah, and I had hoped for soo much more.
 
  
  Computer Ran On:
  AMD Athlon 64 X2 4200+ | Gigabyte S-Series GA-M55SLI-S4 Motherboard | 2048 MB OCZ Gold DDR2 800 
 | ATi X1950XTX @ 512MB | Soundblaster X-fi Soundcard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedpie
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  Like all players that have played this game.... i think the bugs made this game a total mess up, 
 first of all EVEN with the patch the loading time sucks and the lagging on multipayer is very high, 
 get 2GBs of ram then play multiplayer. The single player is not bad i don't know why people hate 
 it i meen... you might need A really really GOOD computer to run the game on the highest Grapics 
 but the gameplay and the other stuff like backstabing using the invorment againt your emenys is 
 pretty kool. Well i just wanna say this... Ubisoft make the game perfect so that there is no MOFO 
 bugs. You have enough money, you could have got even more money if you just made loading times 
 a lot less, realease anothor patch so EVERYONE can play it.
  But overall you made a great game i like it a lot... not close to oblivion but still pretty good. 
 A bit short though
  
  PS: sry about my spelling 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dun
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah was down trodden due to its constant fighting... then again which game doesn`t have 
 the repetitive type of attack.. :) i really enjoyed playing Dark Messiah down to the last second. 
 The cinematography in the game is awesome. Like playing and actual film. About Character Development 
 I must say that its true that the character although in the end get pretty powerful they could 
 work on the RPG element more. In the end what i enjoyed most is the twist that you can take, the 
 fatality that you can wreak and the addictivness i got with the game:) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudStrifeIXI
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me just say that this game ran perfectly on my system, not one single lock-up (well 
 about 2 if you count multiplayer) , not a single glitch or problem i couldn't solve by toning down 
 texture to medium. So let's begin.
  
  I have had alot of people say: OMG THIS GAME IZ DEE TOTAL OBLIVION RIPOFFZ! [...] or This combat 
 is WAYY too repetitive . I don't think it can be much more repetitve if not very much less, then 
 Oblivion, the thing is Oblivion has story, and weapon variety, but overall a crappy combat system, 
 on the other hand, Dark Messiah has a crappy story, but the best combat, ever (released this year) . 
 Period.
  
  Gameplay:
  I have to say, this is by far the BEST combat i have ever seen, i've had many hours of fun mowing 
 down my enemies. The game may seem kind of easy at first, just wait until you get to the temple. 
 The one and probably only downside to this game is variety. It has only about 30 weapons, which 
 isn't bad, but if you look at games like The Elder Scrolls, there are about 100 weapons (probably 
 more, and no, i am not one of those people with think this is a rip off of oblivion, the combat 
 is too fun.) . There is a cool skill tree, but again, there is not many skills to choose from, but 
 the only that are there are either useful or fun to play around with.
  
  Graphics:
  Now, i had alot of people say that the graphics suck compared to Oblivion, and frankly i disagree. 
 To me, the graphics are exactly the same and too be quite honest, graphics aren't the things that 
 make games great. Graphics aren't very important to me, so lets move on.
  
  Sound:
  The sound here, mainly the enemies' taunts, get very repeatitive and annoying, and i always hope 
 i kill them before they say anything. But besides that the sound was good, the music is creepy 
 or fast depending on where you are or what you are doing, and the voice acting is good and have 
 subtitles (unfortunately subtitles aren't supported in cinematics) .
  
  Value:
  This game in my opinion, is worth every penny. The good outweighs the bad (for me anyway) . The 
 game is easy at first, then gets much harder very quickly (I am quite surprised how easily i killed 
 the boss though) . It has EXCELLENT gameplay, good graphics and sound. But, aswell, i am deeply 
 disappointed by what Gamespot has given Dark Messiah. (6.7? Seriously? Thats totally nuts!)
  
  In short, seriously consider this game, if you are still unsure get the demo. But be warned, 
 the game is not so fun if you have a bad computer. Don't blame a crappy CPU on the game. Before 
 you go OMG BRING OUT A PATCH!!! (and a patch is out by the way) , maybe you should check the System 
 Requirements on the box.
  
  And for those who haven't bought it and want the requirements, here they are:
  
  Supported 
 OS: Windows XP (only)
  Processor: AMD Athlon or Pentium 4 2.6 GHZ (3.2 GHz recommended)
  RAM: 512 MB (1 GB recommended)
  Video Card: 128 MB DirectX 9-complaint video card (256 MB recommended)
 
  Sound Card: DirectX 9-complaint sound card
  DirectX Version: DirectX 9 or higher (included in disk)
  DVD-ROM: 4x or faster DVD-Rom drive
 
  Hard Drive Space: 7 GB* free (Wow, just, wow.)
  Peripherals Supported: Windows compatible mouse/keyboard.
  Multiplayer: Broadband Internet connection 
 with 64 Kbps upstream or faster. Installation of Steam** required for multiplay.
  
  * (If you already have Steam, then i suggest you close the installation for Dark Messiah Single 
 Player when it asks, it is just nothing for the cost of more GBs. Stick with the retail.)
  
  ** (You can get Steam at www. steampowered. com ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Nemesis
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game could be a great game but the bugs killed it!!
  The gameplay is great like when you kill the enemy with a backstab or you cut they're heads off 
 and when you kick the in some spikes it is really cool and the story in the game is not bad to 
 BUT the bugs F****s it all, every F***ing thing with the game gets F***ed up by those irritating 
 bugs, and the worsts is that the patch don't even work off the worse bugs.
  This could be a great game but the bugs kill the game they suede had used some more time to fix 
 this game before releasing it, maybe in time they will fix all the bugs with patches but normally 
 games suede not have this many problems! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorbash09
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  The game itself has a very good plot if not a bit transparent. The transparency is not all bad 
 since it has some plot twist to it. I would recommend waiting to purchase the game however on the 
 basis that the fatal glitches, cinematic glitches, and the overall glitches found throughout the 
 game make it very difficult to enjoy. the story is riveting to an old fashioned fantasy fan and 
 the combat is alot of fun to play with. the glitches really bring this down unfortunatly since 
 it seems that the developers didnt even play the game before release. regardless, play it through 
 on the demo because it gives you a nice run through on the quality of the game and how most of 
 the game mechanics work. you wont find any secrets in the demo which there are plenty of them throughout 
 the game but getting a feel for and love of the combat system and death animations will atleast 
 bring a smile to most gamers faces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superciliaris
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  When i started the game, i couldn't belive my eyes. tHE GAME IS BEAUTYFUL and not so much demanding (like 
 gothic 3) . BUT... Thats all it is. After two hours i was bored to the bone and at the end, i got a 
 nasty rash up my ass, because i had to finish it (i always do) and hated playng it. Its a classic hack 
 and slash game with no rpg elements and a lame story. The weapons are scarce, you wil find ten swords 
 for the entire game and no axes or hammers. Thiefing abbilities are just cosmetic and magic is suficient (its 
 caled hack and slash, not cast and run) .If you want to buy it, DON'T. Buy Blade of darknes, its older, thus 
 cheaper, and much more fun . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foggy666
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 13, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about this game I was thrilled, I looked at the trailers and was amazed. Now that 
 I've finished the game, I have mixed feelings about it.
  
  I'll start with the good side of the game - the fights are really fun, all the power attacks are 
 awesome, especially when you chop someones head off! Full body awareness, you can see your entire 
 body, and when you move, attack or take hits the entire screen move making it really cool.
  
  The other side, not very good (but not necessarily bad!) - the story become very obvious after 
 awhile, and there is no surprise after that, no clever twists in the plot, no amazing secrets. 
 Also all those spiky bed frames all around, everywhere. It's a very nice idea and it's cool to 
 kick and impale someone on them, but the developer should have thought about a more clever and 
 realistic way to use those.
  The kick at times become too powerful weapon, for instance you see a lich lord standing right next 
 to a cliff, instead of using power attacks, spells, potions and so on, you press three times on 
 the kick button and this powerful creature is gone.
  
  Well, you probably saying now, what a bad game dark messiah is, well that's not true. I disagree 
 with the game spot score and review. I just think they compared this game too much to oblivion. 
 I am a huge oblivion and TES fan, I even played Arena. But this two games are very different. Dark 
 messiah is not an oblivion-wanna-be. And although it got flaws, like all games, those flaws don't 
 make this game bad or not enjoyable, they just make this game less great than it could've been. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eltodd124
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The game should be titled Dark Messiah and His Foot. You can kick people into fires, down stairs, 
 over ledges, into spikes, or at worst on thier back. This is the mechanic of gameplay that makes 
 the game worth playing.
  
  Rating this game is kind of tricky. On the downside, the character development is scarcely there, 
 the storyline is linear and feels much more like an FPS than RPG, and it's laggy, buggy, and has 
 load screens. On the good side, it looks good, the controls are responsive, and the levels are 
 well designed, both layout and look. The spoiler, the thing that kept me from giving this turd 
 a flush is the ability to kick.
  
  In all honesty, my ratinfg for this game is probably too high, but God forgive me, I love running 
 around giving everyone I see a stiff boot to the backside. I definitely feel I paid too much at 
 full price. I bought this game for 50 bucks the day I bought Sin: Emergnece at 20 bucks, and Sin, 
 even as short as it is, is the better game by far. My suggestion, if you feel you can reach some 
 kind of Zen with the kick feature (I certainly have) , then buy the game. If you are unsure, I would 
 wait for the price to drop considerably, or skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jliebel
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah Might and Magic is an fantasy first person shooter, the story begins where you are 
 a child of a demon lord who is trapped within the skull of shadows. Along the journey you gain 
 a demon friend who helps you along the way. The story itself is pretty decent, and the game is 
 extremely fun, in the game you use the environment against the enemies and to conquer your tasks 
 that you are given. The levels are pretty linear so if you are looking for an adventure game this 
 isn't it.
  
  The graphics are truly amazing, and the physics amazing along with this.
  
  There are a few bugs among crashing randomly, even if you have a beefy computer you still crash 
 a lot, and the play time is pretty short, around 7 - 8 hours for main story. All in all the game 
 is worth a play, so if you have a friend get it from there but i would wait till the price comes 
 down it just isn't worth the 50 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_olly
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  It's fair to say that people are slightly justified when they have slated this game on release, 
 as it has a few blatent glitches which is a shame. HOWEVER... Once you've installed the patch and 
 tweaked the video settings you will not regret purchasing this game. I found that I only had problems 
 when I tried to run it at higher settings as the sound messes up something chronic.
  
  Gameplay:
  How can anybody say this has repetitive gameplay? DM easily has to have the most innovative 
 combat system of any first person title EVER. The range of weapons, spells and character abilities 
 lets you refine your character using the skill point system which awards you skill points everytime 
 you complete an objective. The number of different key/mouse combos you can do whilst fighting 
 is vast and it all makes for some very aggressive &amp; tactical manouvres which gives you a great 
 deal of pleasure when you keep kicking an enemy across the ground and hack them to pieces. There 
 are also many ways in which you can use the environment to conquer enemies as the physics engine 
 offers oodles of traps and puzzles which make it very satisfying to play indeed. The rope bow contributes 
 a great deal to the gameplay as it adds to the puzzle factor of the game. The AI can be a little 
 suspect sometimes but this really doesnt detract from the overall experience of the game and storyline.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Dark Messiah looks fantastic. At last we have a game where you can actually look down and see your 
 body instead of the floating camera style FPS. It really gives you a sense of immersion as all 
 the character joints move correctly depending on what you are doing. The environments are absolutely 
 breathtaking aswell.- There is a level earlier in the game where you are climbing up a mountain 
 fortress which has incredible detail in every aspect. The dragons and other creatures look highly 
 realistic which is also helped with the fantastic animation on offer. There are many instances 
 where you are scared to hell because you believe you are there fighting these opponents and they 
 are huge.
  My only bugbear with the graphics is that I should be able to run it at full spec but this causes 
 some bad sound problems. Once the sound starts glitching, the framerate drops to an intolerable 
 level but Im sure another patch will solve this. There are also some 2d sprites which look pretty 
 tacky as well (eg.. blood spirts, chains and ropes)
  
  Sound:
  The music is very atmospheric and some of the creatures scare the hell out of you (especially the 
 undead types) with their groans and growling. The creatures with a language based dialect could 
 be done better as they keep saying the same things over and over again if they think they've seen 
 something.
  
  Value:
  What can I say... At under &pound;25 you've got yourself a bargain. Who would want to pay &pound;30 
 for BF2142 which is nothing but a BF2 mod!! This game is something new,- something completely different 
 from the norm.
  
  Overall:
  If you can spend the time tweaking your system to run this properly you will not be disappointed. 
 No, they shouldnt have released it with the retail build, but im proud to have given it a try. 
 In terms of innovation this is head and shoulders aboove the rest. If you are sick of the overated 
 cashcow titles such as COD and BF2142 then this game is for you. It's a shame that short sightedness 
 with many reviews have most probably put people off but my advice is don't listen. It's a great 
 title. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taig
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Like so many others I had the highest expectations for Dark Messiah. Having played (and loved) 
 Arx Fatalis in a big way and being a solid fan of Raphael Colantonio and his team, it was all I 
 could do to wait for DM to be released. I played the demo a dozen times thru and still couldnt 
 get enough. Id foolishly ordered the Limited Edition from Amazon and so had to wait an extra couple 
 days as a result, so it was with great disappointment that I booted up my computer on October 26th, 
 went to Gamespot and saw the abysmal score Jeff Gertsmann gave Dark Messiah in his Gamespot review. 
 A fair rating of 6.7?! Could that be accurate? I guess it all depends on how you look at it
 
  
  Ive played the game thru now. I loved it. I mean I REALLY loved it -- in the same way I did Ultima 
 Underworld and Might &amp; Magic 3 and Baldurs Gate, Thief, System Shock 2, Morrowind, and Oblivion. 
 Unlike Gertsmann and some other reviewers, however, I found Dark Messiahs story particularly deep, 
 always compelling, and deliciously dark and suspenseful. I admit that while I found some of the 
 voice acting a little wanting I never found them to be bloody awful or even irritating. I found 
 the level of action and sense of foreboding unsurpassed in a game. And, in my opinion Dark Messiah 
 has among the finest graphics and sound Ive ever experienced in a game yet; including Oblivion. 
 In the end Ive come from away from Dark Messiah with the kind of crystal-clear memories we all 
 glean from favorite games: the palpable sense of dread while descending deeper and deeper into 
 the undead crypt, jumping at every groan or clattering sound behind me. Or the utter realism of 
 the moths as they fluttered silently around lights in the dark caverns I passed thru. I remember 
 sneaking thru the enormous ship docked in the harbor outside Stonehelm and the groaning of the 
 timbers and slap of the water on the hull as the ship moved in the water around me. My first encounter 
 with a Cyclops is indelibly etched into my brain as I cowered behind a giant pillar as the ground 
 thundered and the walls shook around me with each lumbering step he took as he searched for me 
 in the Temple of the Spider.
  
  Did I have technical difficulties with the game? No. Not one crash, stutter, or bug. Seriously. 
 No anomalies or bugs of any kind. Was my experience with the technical side of Dark Messiah an 
 unusual one? Perhaps it was. Do I even know what its like to play a buggy game, you ask? Of course. 
 Ive played more than my share of buggy, half-baked games in the past, I assure you. But Dark Messiah 
 wasnt one of them. Which brings me to my point and the big question I think needs to be asked: 
 Should a game that delivers beautifully in every conceivable way and which, in my opinion should 
 be placed the pedestal reserved for the top 10 games Ive ever played, be relegated to the graveyard 
 of mediocrity reserved for lackluster turds all because it was released too soon? Many will say 
 yes. They feel ripped off and that for $50 they ended up feeling like a beta tester for Arkane 
 and Ubisoft. And thats certainly a valid opinion in a free world. But it isnt mine.
  
  Because when I put all of the factors together, I just cant speak ill of a game that delivers 
 the goods so beautifully -- with or without release bugs -- so long as those bugs are addressed in 
 the timeliest possible way. It pains me to see a game that has bugs of a graphical nature (some 
 serious ones on some systems) but which shines as brightly as Dark Messiahs graphics do on other 
 systems given a score of 7 in graphics, for example. Its been my unhappy observation on the internet 
 that for every mistake or oversight a developer makes in todays industry he gets 100 angry lashes, 
 while for the hundreds of things he executes brilliantly in a game he gets one pat on the back. 
 If hes lucky. Maybe Im getting too old and soft but I find it exceedingly unfair to both potential 
 players and the developers alike to condemn a game in a review that otherwise shines so brightly 
 but which was obviously released prematurely; and all for company political reasons that may well 
 more to do with Ubisoft than with Arkane Studios. The end result is that an otherwise exceptional 
 game is kicked to the curb without a second thought. It seems to me that while speech and the sharing 
 of opinions should indeed be free, the consequences that invariably come after rendering that expert 
 judgment should be undertaken with sufficient responsibility and due care and objectivity. My advice 
 to you? Buy the game, try it on your computer, tinker with it if it seems to have technical issues 
 with your rig, download the patches that Ive seen Arkane feverishly putting together in their 
 unenviable position, and if, after the smoke clears you dont have the time of your life and agree 
 that Dark Messiah was well worth it and more, Ill eat my Sword of the Dragonclaw. Really. Its 
 THAT good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kryptonite_000
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  In my honest opinion I thought the game was fun and entertaining while it lasted. Only 9 chapters 
 makes the game a little disappointing. The fighting action and environment details are very good. 
 Multiplayer can be fun, and it can be very dull. It all depends on what your tastes are. I recommend 
 this game to anyone who are fans of FPS/Action RPGs... People are giving this game very little 
 credit on what it's trying to do, and what it has done. So if you loved The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion, 
 you may enjoy Dark Messiah. Less so or more so than Oblivion, it all depends on what your personal 
 preferences are. I, myself, enjoyed the fighting action in DM more than Oblivion's, but Oblivion 
 is much longer and there's more to enjoy. They both balance eachother out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GB1787
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  The Good: The physics and melee 1st combat are ok. Same old source physics that you've come to 
 know in a melee combat game highlights what I consider to be otherwis a dinosaur of a graphics 
 engine. I'm running it at 1600-1200 res with full everything, and its just not that impressive. 
 The Bad: The graphics are severely dated, every other time you want to play the game, an error 
 comes up saying that you don't have the disc in the drive.
  Slow to terrible support.
  Overall, definitely not a finsihed, polished product worth the $50 bucks, maybe 20-30 if you enjoy 
 this type of game. I've enjoyed many other melee type games that look and run better over the past 
 few years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Sure, the game was riddled with bugs and crashes, but if you spent 10 minutes looking for it you 
 could find ways to tie up some memory leaks and get the game running smoothly. If you did do this 
 and experienced Dark Messiah the way it was meant to be, you would feel completely different about 
 it as compared to the Gamespot team. The graphics are absolutely stunning, to be frank, and I don't 
 know how it didn't score at LEAST a 9 (a 7? are you kidding me?) . Anyhow, let's get to the meat 
 and potatoes of this review.
  
  Gameplay:
  If you had to categorize DM, you'd definitely call it an Action-RPG (putting a huge stress on the 
 action part) . It does follow the basic guildies of a role-playing game with stat, ability, and 
 gear building, but it also has some great hack-n-slash action that anyone who isn't a big RPGer 
 could appreciate. Building your character is different than most RPG's. There aren't any classes 
 in DM, but you can choose to excel in stealth, combat, or magic (or be a jack-of-all-trades and 
 get a bit from each area) to make your own class. You recieve skill points by completing objectives 
 and killing bosses that you use to buy abilities and stat-upgrades, unlike getting it from every 
 enemy you fight like in other RPG's. The melee combat is intense, fast, and brutal. You can parry, 
 block, kick, and disarm along with your basic attacking. Even the attacking isn't so simple. You 
 can charge your attacks into power attacks which vary depending on the direction you're moving 
 in and each inflict different amounts of damage in different areas. You can decapitate enemies, 
 kick them onto spikes and over cliff edges, and slice them clean in half with some of the more 
 powerful weapons. The magic combat isn't as complex/brutal as the melee (you basically just cast 
 your spell and have it hit the enemy, no combos or special moves or anything) , but each spell packs 
 a huge punch. Along with the great, fast-paced combat, there's a fair deal of simple puzzle solving 
 (though it's nothing too fancy) and acrobatics involved when you get the rope bow. The environments 
 are extremely destructable, and you can use these aspects in combat (whether it be slicing ropes 
 to lower traps or breaking statues to fall on your victims) . And on top of it all, DM features 
 a very good AI system. The enemies can do almost anything you can as far as environmental manipulation 
 and combat techniques. All-in-all, DM is just super fun to play.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in DM are beautiful. From high-polygon models on characters, to stunning HDR lighting 
 and effects, DM delivers on what a next-gen game should look like. Granted, it's not absolutely 
 breath-taking, but the graphics definitely warrant a 9 or 10. The great HDR and water effects, 
 on top of the physics, are all thanks to ValvE's great Source Engine (used by other games such 
 as Half-Life 2 and Counter-Strike: Source) . The environments feel very alive and all of the graphical 
 effects presented make you feel like your a part of this fantasy world. Sound:
  DM features a full voice-acted cast (no written lines, here) . The voice-overs, overall, are good. 
 There's nothing amazing (like we see in The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay) , but 
 they definitely have a good touch of acting in them. The sound effects are great, and each footstep 
 sounds realistic on the surface you're walking on. There isn't a lot of music in the game, but 
 when you fight bosses and have it cue in, it's epic and grand, and worth listening too over and 
 over again.
  
  Value:
  If you can get over the post-launch bugs and glitches (and work to make the game work properly) , 
 the game is extremely good. This will probably be overlooked by many because of said crashes and 
 bugs, and I hope that you will try it out, or at least it will get the chance it deserves after 
 Arkane releases the patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: champmanfan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is a more enjoyable experience in some way than other games such as Oblivion & Even Half-Life 
 2 but is let down by some serious flaws. The game is buggy on most systems I've played it on & 
 even those PC that are exceeding the recommended specs & needs extensive tweaking to get it to 
 work - despite the new patch thats been released for it to fix a long list of problems.
  
  You might have just bought this game from watching the trailers over the last 18 months while in 
 development and the amazing use the game has put the legendary Source engine to good use. You will 
 have to get used to using the kick key alot for all those high drops to kick the enemies off.
 
  
  Every time you attack an enemy your adrenaline bar goes up a bit further to execute 'death' kills 
 that will slow the game down and instantly kill your unlucky victim.
  
  Through each of the tasks you will complete (some are optionally) you will get skill points to 
 use to advance yourself so you get additional skills like more strength, stamina, become invisible 
 or be a wizard of spells.
  
  The physic/ragdolls are over the top and can look like the game hasn't been fully tested and the 
 amount of convenient spikes & fires around every corner is suspect and doesn't leave much room 
 for a creative kill. The annoying 'voice' in your head will guide/tell you what to do and its like 
 a bad example of a TomTom GPS nagging every 5 seconds but she does keep her mouth shut for some 
 bits of the game.
  
  If they fix the bugs so most people can play the game without re-tweaking the game then this would 
 easily get 9/10, but it stays 6/10. Don't play this game until you've played the very short demo 
 otherwise you might waste you money on a game that might even crash your PC.
  
  EDIT: You can play this game without any issues as previously mentioned above if your specs are 
 similar to mine & go for overkill (just ignore the recommended specs and double it again: QuadCoreX6700 
 @ 3.2Ghz, 4Gb+ DDR2 800Mhz+ RAM, SATA HDD, any GeForce 8800 series or an Ati 3870 GPU plus an Creative 
 X-Fi series soundcard for all those atmospheric sounds. I didn't get any audio glitches or crashes, 
 unless you ALT+TAB out of game. I played this game pretty much maxed out but some levels I kept 
 mid level due to me having a 320Mb gfx card & some options need you to have a 512Mb card - you'll 
 know when you change it as it warns you. This game must rank alongside Crysis where you need a 
 beast of a PC just to play the damn thing at any decent framerate; at least Crysis doesn't annoy 
 you unlike this game that you either love or hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 10, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  Well what to start with, let's start off with the good thing. The singleplayer, it has a good story 
 not great. Also has great action mixed with the necsesary bit of adventuring, to make up for a 
 bit repatitive fighting. Graphics are just that awesome. The RPG elements in the game are not as 
 good as they say, but it's a really good addition to the game. Altough I am kinda disspointed by 
 the variaty of monsters you get to fight during the game. You will find that there are like 10 
 different monsters in the game appart from the bosses. Altough the great gameplay makes up for 
 it a bit, I really did not bother about it until I started this review. Anyways I feel that singleplayer 
 was well worth the effort and was really fun to play. Multiplayer however is a bit dull and sluggish, 
 apart from the obvious lag you have this game looks more like a gimped shooter because archers/priests/mages 
 are completly dominating this game because they can easily take a warrior out while kiting him. 
 Alltogether I do not think this game is worth 40 dollar more like 30 or something. The singleplayer 
 is nice very nice but a bit short and replay value is low. Multiplayer is nice to try but you will 
 soon find it dull and stupid. Maybe this is one of those all time renters, when you rent it for 
 3 days you will see all there is to see. But the rent wil definatly be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kilgore1987
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Dark messiah is a game that had immeasurable potential. when i first played the demo i said to 
 myself damn if this is demo, then the real game must be 10x as good as this . i must admit, there 
 are several parts in this game that make it shine, however there are too many glitches and and 
 cons that really dragged my opinion down. the most prevalent of these cons is the fact that this 
 game ends way too quickly. i've got to say, the gamespot team who wrote this review really hit 
 the name on the head with their comment on how the story of this game is virtually non-existent. 
 only until the very end do you achieve a somewhat unsatisfying oh, is that what it was all about? 
 i really wanted to like this game as it did have one of the most unique combat systems i have used 
 in a FPS-RPG. the combat is riveting, however this tends to loosen up as the game gradually changes 
 into a prince of persia wannabe near the end. you find yourself saying what's the deal?! i wanna 
 kill something . other features such as the ability to forge your own weapons with ingredients 
 such as enchanted gold and iron did add some nice spice to this game's package, but sadly not even 
 enough for me to ever want to play this game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolysockofdoom
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  In the overrun world of Fantasy video games, Dark Messiah tries to differentiate itself by being 
 an Action game as opposed to a role playing one. It's main selling point should be a game that 
 resembles some of the battle scenes from the Peter Jackson Lord of the Rings trilogy, but it's 
 delivery in this aspect is lacking.
  
  Dark Messiah plays relatively well, with some fun melee and spell combat. The melee plays similar 
 to Oblivion, but slightly more in depth, and yet at times it feels over powered. Kicking, an ability 
 granted to everyone, is great at times, being able to knock back and stun your opponent slightly. 
 Yet in the areas where ledges are present, which is quite common, it feels too easy, especially 
 for a tough fighter character who is always up in his foes faces. The magical abilities of a mage 
 character are easily mastered with some fun twists to them, yet it will sometimes feel like the 
 game was designed for you to only use two of your spells. Stealth combat however, is non-existent. 
 Sure, a character can sneak up and stab someone in the back, but the game is seemingly built without 
 stealth characters in mind, and it will end up playing as a gimped sword and shield character almost.
 
  
  The graphics do use the source engine, which is nice, yet the art team failed to work hard enough 
 on everything. Certain characters can look great, such as the undead cyclops and pao kai, yet you 
 can notice blatantly under developed textures in the desert, and the ugly 2D chains and ropes that 
 hang every where are certainly noticeable.
  
  The sound is give and take, with voice acting that ranges from great to good to just plain horrible. 
 However, the score and ambient sounds are expertly done, adding perfectly to the atmosphere and 
 adrenaline of the game.
  
  The single player campaign feels slightly short when you compare it to your standard First-Person 
 shooter that you would hope takes just over 20 hours. The multiplayer portion of the game adds 
 to the total time you can spend with it, and it is enjoyable, with its Crusade mode that resembles 
 a Battlefield-esque gameplay in a medieval fantasy setting. The character classes are rightfully 
 different with their respective positions in a battlefield. However, there are certain match ups 
 that feel unbalanced which stick out like a sore thumb. The gameplay is extremely hindered by lag, 
 which seems to make everybody jumpy, even if all the pings are sub-50 on a decked out server.
 
  
  In the end, Dark Messiah of Might and Magic was worth playing through once with a glance at the 
 multiplayer, yet it would probably be a better thought to wait a year and spend thirty-five bucks 
 on it instead of fifty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeythemachine
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 9, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  The game was released incomplete, and now there is a patch available that also seems incomplete. 
 There are still larger technical problems apart from the 30 or so specific issues they claim to 
 have dealt with. And to top it off there are issues that, rather than fix for you, are left up 
 to the users to deal with in awkward ways. Isn't the price of software inflated because programming 
 is something not everyone can do? Isn't that entertainment in general, because at this point anyone 
 with a computer can make something entertaining. We pay more, because we expect more. These things 
 have got to be finished.
  
  It's a great game with powerful elements working for it, but what the hell kind of business just 
 throws away good work and the reputation of their franchise, let alone the confidence of the consumers? 
 How is it all of these entertainment studios get so rich despite their cowardice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealBryon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 9, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Big fan of the series. Although this is NOT Might and Magic, I love this game.
  
  What a blast this game is. Great graphics, awesome fun factor and some interesting new options 
 for an RPG.
  
  I feel it is important to mention, however, that this game should not use the Might and Magic label. 
 This is such a departure from the Might and Magic franchise... it should have been called something 
 different. Did the developer even look at the previous M&amp; M games? Huge departure from a niche 
 that had a very unique flavor.
  
  Previous Might and Magic games felt a LOT less guided and inhibited. I previous games of the M&amp; M 
 franchise, the very fact that you made it to Grand Master in any ability meant something. Well, 
 that aspect of M&amp; M is gone... and I cry a little bit at the loss.
  
  If you are responsible for this happening, please bring the M&amp; M series back in the next one. 
 I know it takes time, but it's what I look forward to in an RPG. Dark Messiah is basically a very 
 good, fun and fresh first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sangoanuta
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah is going to be the number one game...
  On my Let down hall of fame.
  
  DMoMM had everything to be another superb game of 2006.
  Graphics were great, story not so great, 
 but still god, innovative fighting scheme, good implementation of RPG elements in a FPS-like game.
 
  
  What bothers me the most is the Necromancers' building, it is completely outta place. I could ask 
 myself: Did i click on DMoMM icon? I think i opened Wolfenstein by accident... 
  
  Dark Messiah is like a good action movie with a crappy ending, but it's like what our old friend 
 Mort Rainey said: The only thing that matters is the ending. It's the most important part of the 
 story. 
  
  My advice for you guys?
  Enjoy the first levels of the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karl319
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 5:01 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah might and magic, a highly hyped and praised game that everyone had been anticipating 
 for a long time. Including me. SO, lets just do this by category, and a few extra comments after 
 them.
  
  Gameplay: Dark Messiah is most known for it's first person melee combat setup. Sounds great doesn't 
 it? And for the most part it is. You can wield swords, daggers, staffs, shields, bows, use furniture 
 for weapons, anything. Shields break after too much damage, you can use them to block blows and 
 so forth, clash your swords together and do combination attacks or just strike a heavy blow. The 
 good parts about this are, it's well implemented, the camera shakes as if your head would when 
 you're swinging around and slicing and hacking up enemies, dismemberment, yes this is in the game, 
 cut off heads, slice off arms and perform fatalities. The enemy AI seems rather easy at times, 
 they block blows and try to move out of the way but they still go down pretty easy... I can personally 
 handle up to 20 orcs at once given the chance.
  
  The game is pretty straight forward and linear for the most part, however you get to make a bunch 
 of different choices throughout the game, want to kill one of the main characters? By all means, 
 it will change the outcome of the story. Not as much as you'd like but still, noticeably. 
  
  You can also kick boxes, barrels, people with your leg, impale them on spikes, or kick them 
 into a fire or off a ledge. Also holding down a movement key and the attack button lets you do 
 different moves, stabbing, slicing, and a few more.
  
  There are also, some minor boss fights, tho they aren't as frantic and adrenaline rush filled as 
 you'd like, you'll take down the cyclopses rather easily, and the dragons you'll encounter. The 
 storyline, is, predictable from the first 5 minutes of the game, which is sad truly but it's not 
 the story that I buy games for really, as long as it's a well made game to heck with the storyline. 
 There's an inventory system, pretty basic, you got your health potions, mana, spells so forth. 
 Then there's the "rope bow" which lets you shoot climbable ropes around the map by the hundreds, 
 this is for mission purposes but you can get to secret areas with it as well.
  
  That's all I can recall right now that is worth mentioning, enjoyable combat in short.
  
  Graphics: 
 The might source engine by Valve, famous for half-life2 and a few other games. It looks great, 
 running on all max and HDR enabled gives you some nice visuals, not as nice as you'd hope from 
 2006 but still, they do the job just fine. There's a bit of a lack of shadows and shading in most 
 parts tho, which is a bit awkward at times, for the most part tho, it's fine and doesn't take a 
 monster of a PC to run either.
  
  Sound: The sound, again it ain't outstanding but it does the job fine, the swords clang and bang 
 against walls and flesh or furniture. The soundtrack is a basic fantasy one and is not exactly 
 as memorable as it should be.
  
  Value: Being a hyped, and anticipated game naturally gives it value, altho a lot of bugs in the 
 original game bring it down (Tho a patch is out now) . I guess an extra note would be that back when 
 the Singleplayer demo was released, it was a whole'nother game. In the final game the same level 
 is there but a LOT different, for the worse. Both visually and gameplay wise. So the demo might 
 seem good, but are you willing to risk it with the full thing?
  
  Tilt: 10 of 10 Comments: A memorable game in it's own ways, with a lot of promise, and a bit of 
 untapped potential. It's not a game I'd recommend to buy for everyone any day or replay again 4 
 times but, it had potential which was untapped.
  
  If only it had been in development for at least one, two, more, months, and included some fun co-op 
 gameplay fighting off waves of enemies online... it could have been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrofirex
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Officially the most under-reviewed game I've seen in ages Dark Messiah brings a new level of interaction 
 with the environment and successfully merges RPG elements into a fun to play action adventure.
 
  
  First of all, the plot; this is perhaps the most knocked aspect of the game. Though it's nothing 
 the title doesn't give away, and it's nothing we haven't seen in fantasy games/stories before, 
 it's satisfyingly straight forward and fun. The game quickly takes a... darker direction, and does 
 a great job of taking a different tack on the usual protagonist. I honestly found this to be one 
 of the more enjoyable elements to the game. In honest truth I think the designers intended the 
 game to be pretty obvious from the beginning - this isn't a mystery, it's an adventure!
  
  The visuals, sound effects, and environment all are the centerpieces of this game. You'll find a 
 detailed and stunning world to explore with many objects to pick up or manipulate, and many big 
 Wow! moments where the beauty forces you to stop and just take it in. The levels are highly detailed 
 and immerse you in the game. The interaction element, though it could be further refined, is yet 
 a breakthrough. It can be cheesy to just kick repeated enemies off of a high ledge, but who said 
 orcs pr goblins were that smart anyways - that, and it's always fun to watch them fall to their 
 doom. The context driven system is actually intuitive, smooth, and... well, bloody. Stabbing a 
 fallen enemy, backstabbing, dismembering, decapitation, and good poke to the eye are always amusing, 
 and well animated. The soundtrack and environmental effects are also top notch.
  
  The only complaint I have read and feel is valid is that the character customization is pretty 
 basic. It isn't as bad as I've heard it described, but if any element could be articulated on this 
 is surely it. You'll still be able to trick out your hero in all the usual ways: tank, critical 
 hits, stealthy killer, or mage (with a set of neat and well implemented powers) . Adding a few more 
 levels of depth to the powering-up system and the inventory/equipment system would go a long way 
 towards making the game even more customizable and deep.
  
  Truly, the makers of Oblivion should take a deep look at this game for it does a lot of things 
 lacking therein. Oblivion, though probably the greatest RPG ever, could learn a whole host of tricks 
 from Dark Messiah which manages to be more fun for it's inherent simplicity and the interactive/puzzle 
 elements. If these two games could be merged the result would be an unstoppable force. Great Job, 
 great game, Kudos to all who worked on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anacardo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  The premise is a game combining the famous might and magic fantasy setting, rpg elements, fps gameplay, 
 and a linear mission driven story. Dark Messiah is a strange game, providing some of the coolest 
 action sequences in recent times, strong and incredibly well thought concept art, while at the 
 same time failing to develop strong characters, and following a very straightforward and linear, 
 sometimes quite predictable, storyline. Let's start with the pluses.
  The concept art is, at times, magnificent. Taken directly from prints by famous etcher Gian Battista 
 Piranesi, some of the levels are a real beauty to watch and play being convoluted, evocative and 
 well thought. The use of light is incredibly well done, the textures are highly detailed, and the 
 overall feeling is magnificent: long gone is the usual already seen in another fantasy title feeling. 
 Kudos to the concept artists and the level designers.
  Another great plus is the use of Halflife 2 engine and the extensive use of physics which translates 
 in fun and always diverse ways of killing, bashing or simply express some retained anger. Almost 
 everything can be destroyed, thrown or burned, giving some really exciting moments. Due to the 
 versatility of the combat mode, you'll find yourself running straight into action with your weapon 
 above your head, then running around kicking enemies on the back, then launching fireballs or freezing 
 them to death. There's plenty of possibilities and the combat is often rewarding.
  Another interesting thing comes directly from the HL2 engine and it's related to the characters. 
 Playing with a sidekick is never troublesome and AI characters usually behave quite well. Which 
 brings us to the minuses.
  
  While the HL2 engine is used to drive the characters and their interaction, we're definitely far 
 from the heights reached by the original HL2 both in realism and variety. The role of these characters 
 is therefore quite marginal and add very little to the overall feeling of the game. Another bad 
 thing is that while the original HL2 immersed the player more in the game with interactive and 
 always ingame cutscenes, this game uses the more traditional approach of prerendered animation, 
 which honestly doesn't live up to the rest of the game and certainly detracts atmosphere. Another 
 minus point concerns the character models which are quite similar one to another and add very little 
 variety to the missions. And while some of the levels are a real beauty, since this game is really 
 a mixed bag, there are some (especially the first level in the city) which are flat and honestly 
 boring. It's quite difficult to understand why some concept art is so brilliant while some other 
 is below par.
  Still the real problem of this game lies in the gameplay. While combat is fun, it tends to get 
 repetitive over time and the linear story translates pretty soon in the usual enter zone, kill 
 everyone, find hidden treasures, optionally jump a few platforms, activate lever, enter new zone 
 which is a real shame since this game deserved much more.
  In the end this is game is a real beauty to watch, a real fun to play in hand to hand combat, and 
 real delusion in the storyline and the overall gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eckozero
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  This is a wonderful game. It using Valves Source engine from Half Life 2. A game loved by millions. 
 This game uses it wonderfully. Amazing graphics like HL2 wonderful effects, the sound is great, 
 and above all else wonderful gameplay. U can do whatever you want. Kick some one into spikes. light 
 them on fire. cut there head off or hands, feet, legs. Ya ok maybe its not a 9.5 ok maybe its not 
 even a 9.2. but i can be dam sure it is not a 6. for cryin out loud u gave HL2 above a 9. Y not 
 a game that is on the same engine and has the same wonderful ideas. a little peace of me has died 
 because of u gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kendal000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  hmmmm dark messiah i had been waiting for this game for sometime after checking out several videos 
 on GS. so i went to the shops on the day of release and got the collectors edition for &pound;39.99. 
 a little steep which is why i put the price so low. but it was the collectors editionwith the bonus 
 dvd anyway....... moving on sorry for my life story.
  i find this game higly addictive to play, and i mean everything seems to draw the player into it. 
 the fighting is great fun especilly taking on a cyclops, although towards the end it did get repetative 
 but thats towards the end of the story which i found to be very engrosing as you had a set goal 
 to move towards. the graphics were great as i could run it fine on my machine at full spec and 
 anti-aliasing. which is why i can forgive the long loading times although as your playing i did 
 notice that they get quicker. think about it its got to load the graphics the engine all the stuff 
 that reacts to physics and what not so i feel the loading timeas are forgivable. the skill tree 
 is good as you can specialize if you wish but a general all round buying of skills i found works 
 best. im sorry but i encountered no technical issues whatsoever apart from the odd lockup. really 
 so what if the AI is dumb crank up the difficulty i find it plain fun to kill dumb enemies lol. 
 anyway all in all a good game but a bit expensive but id say rent first if only to check it will 
 run on your machine since so many people have complained about problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highndry18
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Having played this game for the whole of my weekend almost non-stop prior to the writing of this 
 review, I can confidently say that Gamespot's review is seriously off-target with it's unfair rating. 
 It's true that combat in the game is repetitive, however it is NEVER dull. Thanks to real-world 
 physics implemented with the source engine, there are many fun ways you can get rid of your enemies. 
 See that orc standing at the edge of a mountain trail? Give him a kick and send him falling to 
 his death. See that guard under a wooden shack with barrels on top? Shoot an arrow at the breakable 
 support and watch him get crushed. Don't like upfront battles? Go the way of the assassin and sneak 
 behind your opponents and backstab them. If you're a fan of the Thief series like me, you'll most 
 likely be going the way of the assassin. (The backstabbing animation is very wicked and satisfying!) . 
 And the list goes on. One thing to realise is that Dark Messiah is NOT an RPG, so don't buy it 
 expecting it to be so. It does have RPG elements, like gaining skill points where you can invest 
 in skills according to the Warrior, Mage or Assassin types, and skills are branched out in a Tree 
 , much like the skill tree in Diablo 2. You're not restricted to being one of these three classes 
 though; you are all of them. However you can only truly specialise in one. There is also a rather 
 simple-looking inventory, and a quickslot bar for your equipment and items. There are no merchants 
 or shops and money and trading is non-existent. You'd come to the conclusion that things in the 
 game are too simplified, but sometimes simple is effective. After all, the game is meant to be 
 an action FPS and not much of anything else. The environments are immersive and breathtaking, not 
 the mention the outstanding lighting effects. The sound effects and music are top notch. Certain 
 enemies are harder to fight than others, and this creates a varying degree of challenge for any 
 player. Not to mention that you'll meet fantastic boss-like enemies, like the hulking Cyclops. 
 However I do have to point out some negative points about Dark Messiah. For one it is bug-ridden. 
 Once I even fell out of a map to my death! But so far I haven't come across alot of bugs and can 
 safely say that this game is far, far from unplayable. The game's good points overshadow the bad 
 ones by a long stretch, and I highly recommend anyone who enjoys heart-racing adventure, fantasy 
 and brutal violent and bloody fighting to get this game NOW! You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pupaluppa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Sure, the game was riddled with bugs and crashes, but if you spent 10 minutes looking for it you 
 could find ways to tie up some memory leaks and get the game running smoothly. If you did do this 
 and experienced Dark Messiah the way it was meant to be, you would feel completely different about 
 it as compared to the Gamespot team. The graphics are absolutely stunning, to be frank, and I don't 
 know how it didn't score at LEAST a 9 (a 7? are you kidding me?) . Anyhow, let's get to the meat 
 and potatoes of this review.
  
  Gameplay:
  If you had to categorize DM, you'd definitely call it an Action-RPG (putting a huge stress on the 
 action part) . It does follow the basic guildies of a role-playing game with stat, ability, and 
 gear building, but it also has some great hack-n-slash action that anyone who isn't a big RPGer 
 could appreciate. Building your character is different than most RPG's. There aren't any classes 
 in DM, but you can choose to excel in stealth, combat, or magic (or be a jack-of-all-trades and 
 get a bit from each area) to make your own class. You recieve skill points by completing objectives 
 and killing bosses that you use to buy abilities and stat-upgrades, unlike getting it from every 
 enemy you fight like in other RPG's. The melee combat is intense, fast, and brutal. You can parry, 
 block, kick, and disarm along with your basic attacking. Even the attacking isn't so simple. You 
 can charge your attacks into power attacks which vary depending on the direction you're moving 
 in and each inflict different amounts of damage in different areas. You can decapitate enemies, 
 kick them onto spikes and over cliff edges, and slice them clean in half with some of the more 
 powerful weapons. The magic combat isn't as complex/brutal as the melee (you basically just cast 
 your spell and have it hit the enemy, no combos or special moves or anything) , but each spell packs 
 a huge punch. Along with the great, fast-paced combat, there's a fair deal of simple puzzle solving 
 (though it's nothing too fancy) and acrobatics involved when you get the rope bow. The environments 
 are extremely destructable, and you can use these aspects in combat (whether it be slicing ropes 
 to lower traps or breaking statues to fall on your victims) . And on top of it all, DM features 
 a very good AI system. The enemies can do almost anything you can as far as environmental manipulation 
 and combat techniques. All-in-all, DM is just super fun to play.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in DM are beautiful. From high-polygon models on characters, to stunning HDR lighting 
 and effects, DM delivers on what a next-gen game should look like. Granted, it's not absolutely 
 breath-taking, but the graphics definitely warrant a 9 or 10. The great HDR and water effects, 
 on top of the physics, are all thanks to ValvE's great Source Engine (used by other games such 
 as Half-Life 2 and Counter-Strike: Source) . The environments feel very alive and all of the graphical 
 effects presented make you feel like your a part of this fantasy world. Sound:
  DM features a full voice-acted cast (no written lines, here) . The voice-overs, overall, are good. 
 There's nothing amazing (like we see in The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay) , but 
 they definitely have a good touch of acting in them. The sound effects are great, and each footstep 
 sounds realistic on the surface you're walking on. There isn't a lot of music in the game, but 
 when you fight bosses and have it cue in, it's epic and grand, and worth listening too over and 
 over again.
  
  Value:
  If you can get over the post-launch bugs and glitches (and work to make the game work properly) , 
 the game is extremely good. This will probably be overlooked by many because of said crashes and 
 bugs, and I hope that you will try it out, or at least it will get the chance it deserves after 
 Arkane releases the patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steveh35
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game! And 6.7 is way to low of a score for this little gem, and its been buggin 
 me for a while! Its a shame this game did not get more support from Gamespot seeing as its so much 
 fun and very original for the FPS genre. I'd love to see more games like this, and less games like 
 Ghost Recon! I give Gamespot 6.7 out of 10 for its bad presentation and its unfair review. Yeah 
 There's a few bugs, some of them pretty fundamental really. The kind that should never have made 
 it to gold master, and I was also irritated about it. But there can be no doubt that this is an 
 instant classic and the best game I've played for a very long time! And I know the guys at Arkane 
 are doing all they can to iron the rest of the problems out.
  
  Well done Arkane! You guys certainly have my vote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: equili3rium
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that struck me about this game was the rather old looking FMV sequences which were 
 rather chunky compared to the sharp, crisp graphics of the updated source engine.
  The design overall went from awe inspiring to been there-done that.
  Overall though the graphics 
 were spot on and the level of gore was nice and messy.
  I just couldn't help but feel that i was jabbing away at the mouse button most of the time in the 
 hope of hitting something because there was a distinct lack of realism in the fighting at times. 
 The strikes quite often looked like they had missed but had actually hit the target and vice versa.
 
  There is also a lot of instant death in the game, although some of it is undeniably cool!
  The AI is simplistic to say the least but at least they have the sense to try to run away when 
 you are kicking their butts. And you will be, quite a bit, as soon as you get a half decent weapon.
 
  Just don't bother with the magic because until you can build up points to spend on your abilities 
 there is no point in using the first lot of spells and by the time you have enough points to get 
 the better spells the weapons you will have will be better and will have the same magical properties 
 anyway.
  The menu system didn't sit well with me at all. Perhaps the ability to bind my own inventory keys 
 would have helped but I think a different system all together would have been better.
  The game was a cross between a hack and slash and a first person shooter so the menu felt out of 
 place.
  On the plus side the graphics were very detailed and solid looking with some nice design here and 
 there and the sound was very good indeed.
  The voice in your character's head was a little annoying at times but overall I quite liked her 
 sultry tone. And her innuendo! :)
  For the most part the npc's in the game came and went too quick for you to even register that they 
 were there and left you thinking the place was a bit bare. (not counting all the bad guys of course)
 
  At the end of the day i still enjoyed this game and have seen all four endings, which are much 
 of a likeness.
  It is a good game but i would be tempted to say that unless you want a game that you should finish 
 rather quickly you would do better to get it on budget.
  Fun, but a step back for Arkane i'm afraid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_oblivion
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I played the game regularly since it came out, and I have to say that it's a great game. Okay, 
 there could be less bugs, a more complicated storyline, a more interactive NPC system (Let me sell 
 the loot that I earned!) , but the graphic is pretty good even on the lowest setting, and my favourite 
 component in this game is the rope bow because it makes you feel like a true exploror (provided 
 that you don't get stuck in walls) .
  
  Maybe I'm giving this game a bit more credit because I played it immediately after TRYING to play 
 Gothic 3, but trust me, the game is not as bad as GS says, and it can even be called revoluntionary 
 if they fix the system in the expansion that I'm hoping for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necbone
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is WAY fun. The combat is fun, you can kick, block, and do crazy finishing moves. The 
 design is fun and awesome- lvls are made to not be insanely hard. Graphics are beautiful (even on 
 low!) . The music and sound is awesome. The story is even alittle ok. What i reallly enjoyed about 
 this game was the situations that arose and I had to figure things out; it was a challenge but 
 not crazy hard. I liked having a set difficulty and not an optional slider like oblivion.
  
  This is a different game for gamers. This is not Oblvion. Do not listen to the Gamespot review, 
 I had a great time with this game. It's fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlesg99
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  Sorry for my bad english... but I had to review it.
  
  This game is great. If you were expecting a second oblivion, you might be disappointed but if you 
 start without any idea about this game and you play it, you can't HATE it, come on. FIRST, THE 
 BUGS: Yes there are some crashes (in my case, when I encounter a boss that makes a lot of noise) 
 and some little glitches. These come from a bad memory flow and it should be fixed in the first 
 patch, at least I hope. These bugs doesn't stop me from reloading and enjoying it once more. I 
 play the game on high texture and almost every option on high and I don't have a high end pc . 
 I don't have stuttering and my loading times hardly exceed 30 sec.... I don't know if your computer 
 are having 100 process, 3 antivirus and that you forgot that you had a game of oblivion running 
 while you're playing Dark Messiah but I can't understand why people have so many problems.
  
  GAMEPLAY: the story isn't great, but it surely isn't bad either. It's a good story with reasonably 
 good voice acting (I'm playing the french version so it might be irrelevant) . Personally, I find 
 annoying that almost 80% of what Xana have to say is sex related. I know that sex sells but there 
 is a limit. The game is very short and the multiples ending will really left you unsatisfied BUT, 
 its a hell of a ride. Forget the RPG, it's a VERY linear game but its pretty fun.
  
  GRAPHICS: Very good! the enemies and characters are nicely done and the level are appropriate! 
 SOUNDS: Very good, the weapons sounds are great and the music too.
  
  THE ESSENCE of this game is the combat. Yes there are spike walls all over and you can kick your 
 ennemies all the time in them but you will miss the fun of this game. The close combat system is 
 awesome and no game felt to me as real as this one before. Slicing goblins is so much fun and its 
 surely isn't boring and repetitive. All in all, not a masterpiece but a good and entertaining action 
 game. Don't expect a big, open ended RPG like oblivion but a very fun action game like a medieval 
 FPS that will entertain you for about 12 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aqee
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  Boring linear story. Kill same enemies over and over. Sure the skill tree let you select different 
 classes that could lead to diffrent play styles but often kicking enemy into the spikes (that is 
 placed everywhere you meet enemies) or just straight up melee them down is the easiest way. Sure 
 after you stocked up a few mana potions and got the skill for faster mana regeneration you can 
 quite effectively be a mage but it isn't, that much fun other than better graphical effects.
  
  There is some glitches in the game engine. When i first started up the game on the recommended 
 settings i had 0-1 fps until i managed to look down on the ground and set the graphic settings 
 to much lower. Loading time. How the hell can they release a game with such long loading times. 
 Many new games have a small continued loading that you doesn't notice while playing so that you 
 have fewer and shorter loading times. This game seems to throw the entire map at you directly witch 
 lead to computer cramping up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah of Might &amp; Magic surprised me in anyway posible except the loading time &amp; 
 a few bugs but the rich gameplay &amp; long hours of play makes many of you pass this bad points 
 ! The story is very intuitive &amp; has many unexpected UPS &amp; DOWNS where u can chose betwen 
 good &amp; evil .
  Every ennemy that u will encounter will have his own style &amp; personality for exemple goblins 
 will reatreat if they see they don't have a chance agains u &amp; orcs will chalenge u in a duel 
 with theyr best fighter against u ( just don't use magic skills cause they don't like it ) ! This 
 revulotionare FPS wiew of an Action=Adventrue-RPG takes it to another level because u will have 
 situations where u will have to fight several enymies witch u can defeat only if u use u'r enviroment 
 &amp; skills based on logic facts ( for exemple like in the movies spiders &amp; zombie etc. are 
 vurnerable to fire ) ! The enviroment is very interactive the SOURCE engine proves 1one more time 
 that it can still compete with next gen engines with a very dynamic inviroment that u can use it 
 against u'r enemies ( for exemple if there is a ledge made of wood u can look for something heavy 
 to trhow on it when an enemy is passing &amp; it will brake or when u se a bridge made by rope 
 u can cut it &amp; u'r enemies will fall ) Like i'v said every creature has its own personality 
 so u may see sometimes the war between goblins &amp; orks &amp; if u help someoane lets say an 
 orc he will assist u for a time! The last thing i want to add is about the full body awarness system 
 its absolutly great u will fell the gravity when u move the delay &amp; weight of the body when 
 u jump or swing a sword especely in the cutscences of the game ! My advice to u is do not listen 
 to those that hate UBSOFT/ARKANE just play the game &amp; make u'r own oppinion about it ! Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nasajin
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 3, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I find this game almost completely unplayable, due to the massive loading bugs I seem to encounter. 
 On the few occasions that the game does manage to make it to the main menu, (after about 3 minutes 
 of loading, not including spurious intro movies) I often find it impossible to start a game. The 
 loading screens for the game often freeze, and while I made it through the prologue fine, the loading 
 screen for chapter one often crashes. The one time I managed to make it onto the first chapter, 
 there was extreme stuttering in the conversation and flow of the game. When it finally crashed 
 on me, I tried to reload the game, and found the save games that I were made had been utterly corrupted. 
 Now I have to start from the start again, if I ever choose to do so. If the patch fixes these issues, 
 then I shall review my opinions, but at this stage the game seems horribly broken. NB: system is 
 less than 6 months old, no previous problems with any other games, incl. Oblivion and Half-Life 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killingpwr
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  When i first viewed the trailers and gameplay of Dark Messiah I was heavily impressed. Dark Messiah 
 had elements of gameplay that looked unique although possibly much too frequent, and all of the 
 features you may have viewed in the previews was all that I found in the game. No suprises, nothing 
 but the same kicks and strafing around my oponents becuase the game does not allow you to run backwards. 
 You may be impressed by the innovative gameplay Dark Messiah brings to life. Then 10 minutes later 
 you are quite bored with kicking the same support in so that a platform with 5 barrels crushes 
 your enemies to death. Before long I found myself staring at these platforms, and wondering why 
 there are so many. It seemed in less than an hour that i passed atleast a hundred of them. The 
 thing that truely adjusts this game to its low score is the very detrimental technical issues. 
 While playing I experience problems with horrible fps drop and stuttering during auto-saves, horrendous 
 loading times, and terrible AI.
  Besdies the monotonous melee combat system you have a very un-inspiring, lifeless skill tree. Its 
 so unbalanced that you may as well just keep buffering your melee skills and use magic to heal. 
 Dark Messiah was a game I though had potential. However after an hour of gameplay it is rather 
 bitter and dissapointing. An over-rated game, at an over-rated price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlueSpirals
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  This game is a linear (for the most part) , straight-forward expedition that may lack impressive 
 qualities to a veteran RPG fan, but for those of you who enjoy a bit of RPG and a lot of beautiful 
 environments, incredible action, and quick-thinking, you will get a kick of out of Dark Messiah.
 
  
  Graphics:
  I dont know why gamespot gave this a 7... the graphics are incredibly impressive. Wonderful use 
 of volumetric lighting effects really envoke emotional response when walking into a gigantic temple, 
 looking out over cliffs to the ocean, or getting lost in musty tombs with nothing but zombies to 
 hang out with. The character models look better than Oblivion's in my opinion- the faces look far 
 more organic and alive; Oblivion's 'state of the art' graphics engine achieved the appearance of 
 a bunch of barbie-dolls walking around talking. I love nearly every location in this game because 
 of how incredible the graphics are. Gameplay: There are some minor things that bugged me about 
 the preset controls but those can be fixed. It's difficult to hold Alt and W to creep around while 
 aiming with R to zoom in an arrow. Some of the rope-jumping can get a bit hairy if two ropes are 
 too close together, and I have been stuck in random spots (like mid-air.) Just bugs that need to 
 be worked out I guess.
  The action is incredible. You really feel like you are on a murderous rampage when you take out 
 a group of enemies; and no enemies are too easy- if you have more than one bad guy attacking you 
 at one time, you better be light on your toes.
  
  Sound:
  The female goddess-type lady stuck in your body is relentlessly irritating and I wish I could shut 
 her off. She acts as the game's wtf am I supposed to do now guide, but her empty sexual innuendo 
 throughout the game gets pretty irritating. Some of the dialogue between characters is absolutely 
 ridiculous, like Sareth being seemingly disinterested in his father even though the Goddess leaves 
 random clues about him. Some of the enemies say really stupid stuff to you like Stranger! You wont 
 get away this time! or You wont win! For what it is, a semi-first person shooter with a tiny bit 
 of Role Playing and really a tour through an incredible world, this game is great. But dont buy 
 it expecting the next Oblivion... it has absolutely nothing to do with that game whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gallesh
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I don't belive the GS's reviewer score and review is objective, it's 6.7 for Vendetta .... Dark 
 Messiah is at least a plain fun hack&amp; slash game but it's pretty good even in that case.. but 
 that is not all.. Combats are really fun and never dull killing animations are top and even kickin 
 is fun at its own.. to say that combat is boring in dark messiah you must be pro heavy weight fighter 
 in real life.... Sound effects are just great no words necessary and music is as it has to be...
 
  
  Graphics are better than i expected for Source Engine ,especially the characters are brilliant.. 
 Its short single player gameplay (min 10-12 hours for a veteran gamer) could be the only bad of 
 the game ... but i bet it will be played and finished more than once ,needless to say multiplayer 
 is also another great positivety about dark messiah... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterforge
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  First off, this is not an RPG. Putting points on skills/spells/abilities as you level up/gain more 
 experience/whatever does not make a game an RPG. If you expect it to bo a full-fledged RPG with 
 really deep characters, enthralling dialoges and a rich uncertain story you're really bound to 
 be completely dissapointed. Maybe I was just lucky, I don't know, but I never got the impression 
 that this game was going to be any of that, so I merely took it for your run-of-the-mill slash 
 game (well, perhaps I did have higher expectatiosn than that, but not by much) . And thus was I 
 positively surprised, not only is Dark Messiah an action game, it's a really good action game! 
 It has some of the most exciting, realistic and fun fights I've ever been in. You actually use 
 different attacks for different enemies or situations, so that brings a level of tactics. The way 
 you fight, using melee weapons anyway, is that depending io if you're standing still or walking 
 in various directions when swinging your weapon you attack in different styles. This is similar 
 to Morrowind, if I remember correctly, however instead of the attacks just rolling different dices 
 for damage as in Morrowind, your attacks actually makes a physical differance. For example, either 
 you can make a stabbing attack with your sword that if it hits does more damage or might even impale 
 the enemy or you can swing your sword in a wide arc, wich is more likely to hit the enemy and might 
 hit several advesaries but doesn't do as much damage. All of this is handled by the physics engine, 
 not the rolling of damage dices.
  The story, however, is rather nondescript. It's not bad by itself, but it gives away large parts 
 of itself rather early and after that there are hardly any plot surprises at all. Also, the feature 
 of multi-ending was something of a letdown too, as wich ending you will get only decides upon a 
 few (two, maybe?) select choices near the end. Not really exhilarating, to say the least.
  Now about the sound, is another matter. The music in the game was plain. It was the kind you didn't 
 actively notice, but it helped you get into the right moods. The sound effects are another matter, 
 as the sounds coming from the creatures, for example, are rather convincing.
  Conclusively it's a fun game with some very nice actions implements.
  As a side note, I've yet 
 to play it multiplayer, as me and Steam cannot seem to coop very well, but I can imagine that it's 
 very fun indeed to play it multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supamancam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Without exception (until now) I've completely agreed with every single GameSpot review I've read 
 after playing a game.. But not this one... I find it difficult to understand how one can describe 
 the combat in this particular game as 'quickly becoming repetitive', when in comparison to pretty 
 much every game on the market today, it eclipses them all in terms of action, intensiveness and 
 excitement... Even FPS's, for example.. you're just shooting and throwing grenades, but i don't 
 hear anyone calling that 'repetitive', though of course it is (the very definition of bloody repetition) ... 
 Anyway
  The graphics really help set the mood of this game, they're suitably dark, yet with sufficient 
 detail to provide that immersion we all desire. This is supported by the well-done and appropriate 
 ambient sound and sound effects. I particularly enjoyed the way this game made me think about each 
 encounter before engaging, considering how best to quickly and efficiently dispatch each foe.
 
  
  One thing the GS review was correct about were the current (frequent) crashes and glitches.. The 
 sooner the patch is released the better. All I have to say is, Don't give up hope! This game will 
 rule once it's all smoothed over.. *slaps developers for throwing it on the market before it was 
 ready*
  
  Seriously though, it's hard to critisize this game for it's combat. It can and almost definitely 
 will keep you enthralled for quite some time. Enjoy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradise19
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is beyond dissapointing. I looked forward to this game for what must have been a year. 
 Anticipation slowly builded and the demo was one of the funnest things i've ever played. So i hastily 
 downloaded this off of steam. Disaster. Innumerous glitches and crashes, this game is simply unplayable. 
 A patch is supposedly on its way but it's been a week and a half, and call me imatient, it is simply 
 unacceptable to release a game to the public that is unplayable. This game stole the peoples money. 
 God curse the publishers!!! I feel for the developers, they tried to make a good, solid game and 
 would have well exceeded the call of duty if it werent for the rush to get this game out. THis 
 is where Ubisoft failed the people. For this, punishment will be swift and deadly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Today might be the day to enjoy this game (11/2/06) as the first patch should be out. As you've 
 probably read this one was riddled with bugs and should not be played without it, ideally. Its 
 like drinking on an empty stomach, it is steady at first, but in the end you will be in a most 
 negative mood.
  
  If anyone has played Arx Fatalis (also by Arkane studios) you will find a few little things have 
 made their way to Dark Messiah. Mainly in the art direction, ambience sound and the not very fleshed-out 
 blacksmithing, which is even more limited this time. Gameplay - The combat is intense. Taking on 
 one enemy is way beyond the usual first-person game. You have your 3 basic melee oriented moves 
 of attack, block, and kick. Attack can be held down for a power attack which can leave you open 
 to a counter. It plays alot more like a boxing game than Oblivions melee which doesn't come close 
 in complexity. Single fights last longer though, with skill and powerups, you can take out multiple 
 enemies easily. You use your talent points which you gain upon completing objectives. There is 
 magic (some of which is useless at certain parts of the game) , archery, stealth (backstab and dagger 
 bonuses) and overall benefits like more health and mana. Spellcasting can me satisfying at times 
 as is stealth use of bow and daggers, but regardless of your choice in talents you will most likely 
 end up doing some melee fighting. The story is decent. Nothing mind blowing but not bad at all 
 either. Mosy levels are underground in crypts, caves and there are citadels and some town areas. 
 There is an outdoor mountain area but takes place around a large underground and indoor trek. Some 
 of the bigger boss enemies are easily defeated once you learn how to use the surroundings.
  
  Graphics - Nicely done. Some will have issues with some of the textures and trees... if you 
 decide to stop and study all these. Think Half-Life 2 on release, not a cleaned up Episode 1. The 
 physics more than make up for this. This makes the combat interesting and is a huge part of the 
 reason this game is enjoyable. Sound - The score is not that noticeable at all, nothing outstanding. 
 Seems most of the game is based on ambient music and ambient sounds. The voice work is par, sometimes 
 as overdone as a Sci-Fi channel B-movie. Xana, the voice in the players head, like Cortana , has 
 a sexy voice. Often teasing the player. The sound effects are pretty good and fit well with the 
 combat and interactions. Value - After patch, and enduring the many laod crashes, this game is 
 still worth the price on its single player alone. Which you'll probably want to play a few times 
 through with different skill builds as the combat is good enough to warrant this. There are multiple 
 endings. Multiplayer, pre-patch has not been that great. Though atleast it is in place for the 
 modders. So hopefully our modding friends can bring us long term gameplay into a unique type multiplayer. 
 This is just another plus for Dark Messiah.
  
  Conclusion - If you like action but don't like the slow play of most RPG's, you might want to check 
 this out. Also, fantasy fans will find alot to enjoy here but some may find the only major quality 
 in the combat involving Source physics and all the other aspects just along for the ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampyreLegion
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  I think this games is a solid 9 , not sure the reviewer liked this type of game.
  
  The story line and cut sence are very cool, and the best part is you start off and the action begins, 
 Learning curve is very easy and the game controls are like most other games you have played.
  
  I would say if you like Oblivion you would like this. I have played it for a couple of hours 
 and I think it is solid.
  
  No crashes yet, but maybe a patch will fix it for those that have issues.
  
  I like the game 
 physics also, the ragdoll effect on the NPC's is so cool. use a fireball and watch the NPC bend 
 and fold where the fireball hits him. Then the body starts to burn. Muhahahah
  
  Also kick and NPC into the fire and watch him get set ablaze! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dklingen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah is ultimately a very entertaining game. I am not sure why the reviewers are tearing 
 it apart. It does have it's flaws - but it is still fun and most importantly - different!
  
  Pros: Great graphics, fun combat, interesting maps, and the sound is fine. You can try each 
 class (fighter, mage, and stealth simultaneously) and you are VERY unlikely to run out of loot 
 (potions, spells, weapons, armor) .
  
  Cons: Many technical issues, the game must have locked up at least 10 times on me (always on load 
 screens) . Also the controls are not always smooth at points and can make control slightly painful. 
 Simply the game lacks polish. It seems like they rushed it to market.
  
  Update: With the patches and a price of $19.99 you cannot go wrong. I have played the game all 
 the way through 3x (once with each class) and it is one of my overall favorite games. I strongly 
 urge everyone to give it a try and I hope they do a sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wt2long
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game. Certainly not a 6.7. I've seen worse games that have gotten better reviews from 
 gamespot. I got off alright with the bugs. A few times had to restart the game, and the final cutscene 
 wouldnt play (not playing this game for the story anyway) , but nothing huge. A great game, just 
 gets old and has tech problems. I'm not sure how you give this game below a 7 (except maybe if 
 you were one of those who got a really buggy copy or something, I havent had many problems) . Its 
 not a classic or anything, but the multiplayer is fresh. I don't regret buying it, at any rate. 
 The singleplayer was just enough to get me to finish it, and the multiplayer picked up well from 
 there. There simply isnt any other multiplayer experience quite like dark messiah, though balancing 
 is needed. I would say its worth trying, its a shame you cant really rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Blade7
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that I noticed when I started playing this game was the amazing graphics. I wasn't 
 expecting my computer to run so fine when playing this game. My computer is juiced up on power 
 for graphics, but that was a year ago so lets get back to the game review.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is actually pretty fun in my opinion. I love kicking the enemies off the 
 cliffs, doing the awesome moves with the slowmo (which is completely tight) , everything in this 
 game is actually really fun. You can also do a lot of fun things in the game, if your creative 
 in the mind though. Sometimes I enjoy just pretending to being in the game where its my own life 
 on the line. Its quite fun when you face the orcs as they are a bit tougher then those necromancers 
 you face. There is action at almost every turn of the game which keeps the game exciting and wanting 
 more. The Bosses are a little difficult but there is a way to get around that. In mostly every 
 game that I play that are first person and deals with swords, I just constantly run around them, 
 attacking them while doing a circle around them. Keeps them from attacking which is the only downfall. 
 It won't prove challenging if you do that a lot.
  
  GRAPHICS: So far, I have had excellent results in graphics. I have not seen a glitch nor have I 
 seen any errors. Everything works out perfectly in my opinion. But then again it could be that 
 my card is supported by the game itself.
  
  SOUND: The sound is pretty good, only thing bad about the sound is that sometimes it becomes scratchy 
 and not all high quality. I have a 7.1 Surround sound and I can sometimes hear different sounds 
 and scratchiness in some of the actions that I do in the game. STORYLINE: The Storyline so far 
 seems awesome and also seems interesting. The dreaming part is confusing but I guess you would 
 have to play it again and possibly again so that you can understand what the people and creatures 
 are trying to tell you. BAD ITEMS WITHIN THE GAME: The only bad thing that I found was the AI itself. 
 I think it could have been scripted much better then the way they are now. I enjoy the fact that 
 they try to flank you, but you can easily get out of that and it cancels their smarts in trying 
 to kill you. Also your allies AI isn't all that greatly scripted. I found in one of the scenes, 
 the boat scene, that after a while when defending the boat, the girl will help you for only a little 
 bit of the time, but then right after that, she will stop and stay behind, making you do all the 
 work. I also would like to mention the enemies that are in the game. They are unique in many ways, 
 but there should be more enemies in the game. I think there should be more battles as well in the 
 game as I'm more of a fighter instead of a mystery solver. But sometimes that is fun as it makes 
 you get your thinking caps on.
  
  THE LINE: The Bottom line is if your into medievil/fantasy games, then this game is for you. You 
 will have great excitement but the only thing you will need is a powerful computer. But if you 
 already have that then it will be ok. I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys the FPS 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  First of all i would say i am a Ubisoft fanatic cause i love all of their games
  
  Pluses: Great physics, good graphics, very funny console commands like ai_disable sv_gravity, Intense 
 Boss Fights, many secret areas
  Minuses: Short, kinda hard even at normal, too little weapons to chose from, that annoying companion 
 system i lost 3 times and that chapter when i was supposed to defend the ship, a few bugs.
  
  OK i have encountered 2 bugs so far: when i click the sword shortcut and the shield at once 
 it gives me another weapon instead of the sword and once when i tried to save it crashed
  The Graphics are GREAT but if you want shorter load times go for that setting Texture make it medium 
 The battle system is annoying cause i ma not used to blocking :D :) )
  
  Overall the game is good but it could be better
  
  (PS i was never looking forward to this 
 game so i was merciless on the review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misthero
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  The game is really funny to play and that's what matter, the only problem: it can be a little stuttering 
 if you haven't the better machine out there, just a couple of hint: avoid stuttering setting medium 
 res for textures and repairing games files with the steam property options.
  
  I can't understand the gamespot review, have you ever seen any better First Person Fantasy Action 
 game? I can remember none.
  
  I can agree that kicking around is a bit too poqerful sometime, but it depends on the enemy and 
 the surrondings. Try kicking spiders in the spider cave to know what I mean, It totally usefullness.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cptevm
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 1, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  I was waitting the game for a long time. So when i saw it in a shop i bought it directly. Coming 
 back home, i install it on my computer.
  First problem was the registration of the game with steam, it seems that all the product key were 
 not already activated as the game was released only on a friday, and it was wednesday and i has 
 already the offical game sold in the shops after a few mail, problem was solved.
  Trying the game was good only a few minutes than began the crash experience.... On the box the requirement 
 are Win XP, pentium 4 2.6Ghz, 512 MB ram, 128MB video card directx9 compliant.... i have more than 
 that =&gt; should be no problem..... big mistake...
  If you don't have the last videa card or even a SLI configuration, you have to reduce the graphic 
 resolution to almost the minimum otherwise the game crash regularly....
  After solving the problem by reducing the resolution, i start to play.....
  Big desapointment 
 when i realized that no interactivity with the NPC where possible exeption made of killing them..... 
 and graphicaly you don't have the time to see everything as you have to run a lot....
  The story is also quite linear and not very interresting.....
  
  For the online game, i've 
 tried only once, but was desappointed by the disruption in the flow of data....
  
  Dark Messiah could have been a great game, now i prefer to forget it and turn back to elder scroll 
 oblivion and to Guild Wars.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  Since the time I joined Gamespot, I generally agreed with game reviews from Gamespot, but this 
 one I pretty much disagree with almost everything they said. Like I said above, Ubisoft could've 
 done much better job, but it's still quite an amazing game.
  
  For the first time in last few years, we have a very intense combat oriented single player game. 
 That doesn't mean the game's story telling is weak nor sound and graphic quality is poor. We have 
 a great single player game with lots of replayable factors.
  
  I have this game and played for more than 10 hours now, and I never found Xana annoying but just 
 amusing sometimes. Storyline is not transparent at all as I never figured out and predicted the 
 game's ending even after chapter 7. Considering there are total of 9 chapters, that doesn't really 
 sound like the game has a predictable ending, does it?
  
  When it comes to sound quality, they just did a superb job. Apparently, the music is so dramatic 
 and the choir during the battle against Cyclop makes you dive right into the game. Only improvement 
 I would like to see from the sound is the AI's conversation as it could be a bit repetitive sometimes 
 because they say pretty much same thing everytime they encounter you.
  
  Like I said again, and I can never say this too many times. It is just so disappointing that this 
 game needed little more effort to make this game earn a Gamespot's editor's choice award. I am 
 afraid to say this game is full of bugs and errors, random game crash due to memory handling problems, 
 and many bugs with multiplayer version.
  
  During my last 10+ hours of play, I encoutered many bugs including having unlimited number of items 
 and unlimited mana, and countless game crash with error message saying memory sector could not 
 be read. Bigger problem with game crash is that it's so random and you can't really predict when 
 your game's going to crash, and that could make you frustrated after your game crashed as you just 
 finished a very difficult part of your level. The game does have automated saving feature, but 
 obviously it's not frequent enough as it only saves your game everytime your quest object is updated.
 
  
  Also, it seems like everytime you play as an Warrior in multiplayer server and gain Level 2 stamina 
 skill, the game crashes. Also, multiplayer game suffers from random memory reading errors that 
 causes the game to crash and it seems that crash kicks out everyone from the server everytime it 
 happens.
  
  There are also minor balancing problems with skills. Apparently, some of the skills are so useless, 
 they are never used, and number of weapon and item types are not significantly different nor varies. 
 Ending credit is also quite unsatisfying compared to the amount of work and effort you need to 
 put into finally killing your last boss.
  
  As you can see, all the problems this game is suffering from can be fixed by putting more effort 
 and time into the game. If this game was completely bug free, I can give this game an instant 8.5+ 
 of rating. But Ubisoft just failed to do so, and it's just so sad to see the game could've been 
 the one of the greatest game of the year becoming one of the most disappointing game of the year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sedako
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah, while exactly not living up to the hype, does offer a solid amount of game play for 
 adventure seekers. The combat feels solid, but it quickly becomes apparent that a little but more 
 polish could have gone a long way. It is not always easy to land blow due to the somewhat clunky 
 character controls. The voice acting is sub-par for the most part, and a lot of the dialogue is 
 quite obviously over the top. The musical score makes up for this however, setting just the right 
 mood at various points of game play.
  
  Those looking to play Dark Messiah should not be expecting an RPG, character development is far 
 too simplified, but rather an action/adventure title. The story seems somewhat glued together and 
 lacks the depth of many popular games on the market today.
  
  The Multiplayer feature feels very rushed, almost as if it was tacked on during the last week of 
 development. You may have fun playing it for a couple hours, but then you'll wonder why you aren't 
 doing something better with your time.
  
  Overall, Dark Messiah is a solid game that will provide a couple days of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoopdebejesus
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Repetitious, but you have lots of options (magic, stealth, various weapons, use of environment) 
 in same scenarios, and with various choices in skills upgrades, the game has replay value. Caution 
 buyers! Check game req. s to your PCs ability. Mine plays HL2 at high res, but had to be set to 
 low.
  
  Fantastic detail of the medieval art (sort of like Enclave) and the ability to interact (pick up, 
 carry, throw) with the environment. Enjoyed inventory and resources management. The game 'feels' 
 a lot like a combination of Thief and Morrowind. Loved the physics, but hated all the hand holding 
 in a game thats supposed to be rated M. Not as good as it could have been, but lots of fun!
  
  I've played another 5 hrs. and I want to edit my original opinions to say: The more I play 
 this, the lamer it is. Wayyyyyyy too much 'hand holding' and fighting 'bosses' is just lame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricSherman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought/installed this game I couldn't play it for more than 5 minutes with out it 
 crashing, flicker or going berserk -- and I was playing it on a pretty high end laptop. Since then 
 I bought a newer Alienware laptop configed to the nines and re-installed. I was pleasantly surprised 
 by this game. The graphics, locations and gameplay were fantastic and way under-rated. The game 
 does at time get tedious and redundant, but what game doesn't? Before purchasing you should definitely 
 be sure that your computer is up to snuff. They were times in this game where I was blown away 
 by the creatures/bosses. The funnest part of the game is the intelligent use of the rope bow which 
 allows you to by pass enemy conflicts as well as finding hidden areas/treasures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imortal986201
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  So yes I've played this game, and yes its amazing. This game is sort of like an uncut diamond, 
 as is represented by its incredibly short storyline. I tend to disagree with those who would say 
 that the story is dull, but the endings are a bit week and thrown together. Also there is not as 
 much to do with your character in the short period of time you are actually running around and 
 killing things.
  
  Now to explain the diamond part. This game is unique, and has a lot of room to expand, and grow. 
 The multiplayer is quite a bit different than any other mainstream game on the market. If the makers 
 decide to evolve Dark Messiah, and add in extra features and facets, it could very well be a fine 
 gem in the gaming industry. So right now here is the pros and cons I have seen.
  
  Pros: Multiple directions and endings within the story; can choose alignments and optional missions; 
 combat is graphic and innovative; traps and environmental aspects add a good complications or effects 
 to combat and traveling; excellent cut-scenes and in game music+SFX.
  
  Cons: Short Single player mode; graphics have much room for improvement; no currency and trading 
 system (throw out duplicate items) ; no experience or reward for killing enemies; game needs better 
 lighting effects such as self-shadows so its easier to tell who can see you (unless I somehow missed 
 them) ; also there are several bugs which spawn from doing illogical things at certain times (like 
 picking up stuff when you don't have a bag) .
  
  I gave the game a 9.7 because I think people aught to give this game a shot. Its a great game, 
 but it does have downfalls. So the good score is preempting the potential expansion and growth 
 of this game. For those who have the problem, in graphics options you need to turn your textures 
 down to medium or lower or else the game will crash on certain intervals. There are other glitches, 
 which will be patched out soon I imagine. All in all this is a great game, but short, although 
 it is great as a multiplayer game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasmflop
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  A game is a complete experience. And taken as such, Dark Messiah is one phenomenal production, 
 and easily one of the best games this year. Dont buy the negative professional reviews at outlets 
 which shall remain nameless. I have seen much much worse games than this score higher , but lets 
 not go there. About the game. The level of immersion is nearly unparalleled. You never leave the 
 perspective of the main character. You look down and you are greeted with arms and legs and a body! 
 It has taken too long for developers to add such a simple ,yet effective detail. What took em so 
 long? The graphics are generally excellent, a low res texture here and there in no way detracts 
 from the overall beauty of this game, from the animation to the lighting to the character models. 
 All superb. The fighting I have found to be very satisfying in a visceral in your face way. Its 
 fast paced and fluid, with great moments like kicking a foe off a high ledge or severing a head 
 . The sound design is also top notch . The only nagging issues (which will soon be addressed with 
 a patch , so I wont hold these against the score) ... are the looong load times, and occasional 
 crashing problems. BTW... for those of you looking for a answer to long load times... change the 
 texture detail from HIGH to MEDIUM... it speeds up loading times quite a bit and improves overall 
 performance while not drastically reducing image quality. All told a fantastic game which I highly 
 recommend . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCOrpionMAx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I dont know how game spot gave this the rate 6.4 this aint right at all this game deserves 9.0
 
  it one of the best games u will ever play the game play the story the sound and music its all 
 good i've playing 7 hours directly without no problem the load time is just good despite i dont 
 have good pc 2.4 celeron D Ati 9600 - 256 MB 768 MB ram and the game almost run on high setting 
 except texture and sound get them on medium this will fix any problem at the end i recommend this 
 game for any one to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hob0j0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  After reading Gamespot's review on Dark Messiah, I began to not want to buy the game, having read 
 lots of Gamespot's reviews and agreeing with nearly all of them. This is one of those rare times 
 where I do not agree with Gamespot. They seemed to have lowered the rating because of bugs. Bugs 
 can be fixed in a patch. In this review I'm going to rate the game as if there were no bugs at 
 all.
  ----------Gameplay: The gameplay is FPS style only, with the sword and shield. Unique, but extremely 
 entertaining. The combat is very fast-paced and you must be paying attention to what you are doing, 
 or you will die. You can do other things than slice enemies to bits. You can kick them off edges 
 or into spikes, or cut a rope bringing a box down to crush your enemies. You can also cast various 
 spells that will have different effects on your enemies. This can get repetitive but it won't get 
 boring. At least not for me.
  ----------Graphics: The graphics are awesome. My computer can run it at mostly medium settings 
 and the graphics are still extremely good. The physics are great as well. The character models 
 are very detailed as well as the weapons. Without the graphics this game wouldn't be as good it 
 as it is.
  ----------Sound: The sound isn't great, but it isn't bad either. The voice acting isn't the greatest 
 but at least the character's lips actually move. The sounds of swords clanging together in a big 
 fight sounds pretty cool.
  ----------Value: This game is worth the $50, but on Steam it shouldn't be because you don't receive 
 the box or DVD. $50 is a little steep for Steam. $40 would sound more reasonable.
  ----------Overall: This game is great. Dark Messiah of Might and Magic is an extremely fun game. 
 Even though you constanly kill stuff over and over, it never gets old. Once all the bugs are completely 
 gone, then maybe people will change the way they think about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winterymint
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I always took a much greater interest in the multiplayer portion of Dark Messiah 
 rather than its single player brethren. Developed by Kuju Entertainment, the company responsible 
 for helping develop the EyeToy games for the PS2, the multiplayer mode for Call of Duty: Finest 
 Hour, and Battalion Wars for the Nintendo Gamecube, the multiplayer mode of Dark Messiah encompasses 
 a unique style of gameplay in a fantasy setting. The game splits between 2 factions, the Humans 
 and the Undead. Each faction allows 5 playable classes, the Assassin, the Priestess, the Mage, 
 the Archer, and the Warrior. The only difference between the Humans and the Undead is their physical 
 appearance; otherwise, they are essentially the same.
  
  Now the question is, how does the multiplayer stack up?
  
  Pretty nicely, and I wont stop 
 there.
  
  Despite some slight conflicts of class balance, the multiplayer portion of the game leads as an 
 excellent and worthy contender of popular multiplayer first person shooters. To begin with, the 
 Assassin is a very fast paced and fun-to-play class. In fact, all classes are extremely fun to 
 play, and it will only get better as Kuju decides what should be done to help make the game even 
 better. (And they do, their commitment to the Open Beta was extraordinary, as far as updates and 
 forum responses go) . The Warrior is a tanker lovers dream, being able to negate any spells and 
 absorbing the most damage with its Reinforced Armor. Surprisingly, the Warriors attacks are powerful 
 as well. The Priestess is most likely the main concern of many balance critics. With her instant 
 self-heal ability and an armor buff that lowers any kind of damage, the Priestess can take on any 
 class and win. I havent even mentioned the insane range of her Corrupt ability and the Bramble 
 spell that slows ALL players to a crawl. Kuju Entertainment obviously decided that Priestesses 
 should do more than just supporting other classes. The Mage is insanely powerful as well, but only 
 in late levels. Finally, the Archer is a class that rewards those with practice; arrows not only 
 take time to reach the target, but they also arc as well. However, 1 fully charged shot deals 56 
 damage; 2 shots will kill the player.
  
  In conclusion, the multiplayer portion of Dark Messiah is anything but the norm. It features a 
 retrospective view of the modern first person shooter with 5 totally different playable classes. 
 The game delivers tons of different tactical strategies, and will only get better as Kuju Entertainment 
 continues to please its fans with updates and additions to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscPete
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Most of my gaming time is taken up by my passion for Guild Wars, in fact most of my time is taken 
 up by Guild Wars! It's about the only game that could have pulled me away from Battlefield 2, which 
 I did play for quite a bit, but got drawn back to GW, which I have been playing solidly for over 
 a year now, as well as run my Guild site and small community. You may think that GW and Battlefield 
 2 (and games of it's ilk) have nothing in common, and until now that would have been true. Let 
 me introduce you to Dark Messiah - part of the Might and Magic series. I know nothing at all about 
 the MM series so I won't go into that here, rather I'll just tell you about the Dark Messiah game 
 itself. The game is in First Person perspective, one connection it has to other FPS games, although 
 as it has no guns etc, it's not really a first person shooter, more of a first person melee or 
 combat game. It's set in a fantasy world, where their advertising blurb tells you don't play as 
 a warrior, or a wizard or an assassin - play as them all! As you follow the exploits of Sareth 
 in the single player storyline you will learn new skills and get new items/weapons which will enable 
 you to become proficient in a specific area or jack-of-all-trades. It's a skill 'tree' if you like, 
 where if you choose one particular branch, you may be weaker on another. The storyline itself gives 
 you the role playing aspect, and what holds this up apart from other similar games is that it uses 
 Valve's Source engine. For those of you who have played Halflife 2 will know how good that is - 
 infact it's even better because it's an 'enhanced' version to boot. What this means is that the 
 whole 'world' you play in will be very interactive, pick up barrels and throw them at enemies, 
 move boxes around to get at hidden items and so on. In what basically amounts to a seperate game 
 (but within the same scenario) , there is also an online multiplayer aspect for up to 32 players. 
 This is where it becomes more like an FPS game similar to BF2 etc (although without tanks and planes!) . 
 There are 5 classes to choose from: Warrior which is your basic soldier, fastest on the field and 
 most powerful when it comes to dealing direct damage as well as taking it; Priestess can be considered 
 the medic of the group with her healing and protective skills; Assassin with his ability to cloak 
 (looks like the Predator!) and stealth attributes can be considered your covert ops specialist; 
 Ranger can also use stealth and ranged attacks (sniper maybe?) ; and the wizard has been compared 
 to artillery with area of effect attacks etc. The online aspect of the game has been developed 
 independently of the single player game (by an English company!) so should be a good indication 
 that it will play well not just look nice. Gameplay modes include your standard deathmatch and 
 team deathmatch but also introduces the Crusader mode, where you start off in the middle map of 
 five and depending on whether you win or lose, you will go either forwards or backwards onto the 
 next map until you hopefully reach the enemies stronghold and conquer it to win. Another aspect 
 of gameplay that is similar to BF2 is the use of various spawnpoints and the map on which to select 
 them as well as change you class. During the campaigns you will earn new skills and become more 
 powerful with better weapons etc, and these will be saved over all the maps until the campaign 
 has finished, when it will be reset - sort of an xp save type of thing. Should you switch to another 
 class mid-battle, you will start that class from scratch but will keep any skills learnt on subsequent 
 changes. Skills that can be gained vary depending on the class but include things like better stealth, 
 zoom attack when using a bow, shield blocking and so on. Technically, the game ran fine on my low/medium 
 spec system, with both an ATI Radeon 128 Mb 9600 All-in-Wonder card, and now on my nVidia 128 Mb 
 6600GT, although the video setting will need to be low to medium unless you have a reasonably new 
 card, this is especially important with the Texture setting which can be found in the Advanced 
 section of the video settings. The game itself has fairly slow loading times, but nowhere near 
 as bad as BF2, in fact I would say they aren't too bad at all. During gameplay I only came across 
 one bug which happened during a cutscene so didn't affect the game at all. The game ran very smoothly 
 on my mediocre system and is a joy to play - it is a genuinely refreshing take on the RPG/FPS scene. 
 So, if you fancy a bit of swordplay (and be honest, which of you guys didn't have a sword and shield 
 when they were kids!?) in an FPS setting, then this may be right up your street. One word of warning 
 - as the graphics are so good, as well as the physics of the game, there is a lot of dismemberment 
 and decapitation to be seen, as well as various methods of stabbings and impalements. If you're 
 interested in this sort of blood and gore, check out the demo which is out now on Fileplanet and 
 other good sources. The game is out now in standard and limited Collector's Editions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nedarbi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  i dont know what gamespot was thinking when they reviewed but this game is top notch. gameplay 
 wise it really makes you think on a whole new level. ontop of that the experience is greatly intense 
 with the amazing graphical detail and crisp sound. i do think however that the plot was a little 
 to basic and it seemed odd to me that sareth is simply doing what he was told to do. it takes away 
 from the hero idea.
  
  overall a great game in my opinion. sure it was plagued with some problems at launch but when you 
 get intot he game, it's all worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jktiberius1973
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Overall I guess I was expecting more from the game. I was very pleased with the graphics, and am 
 able to run it at high resolution (1280X1024) at max settings on an aging GF6800GT. The killer 
 for me was the plot hammering and linear nature of the levels. Not to mention, what the hell was 
 up with the secret areas? Noting really to accomplish there, they were little more than rooms down 
 a different hallway then the main linear quest. The interaction with the other npcs kinda sucked 
 too. I thought there would be more. The dialogs reminded me of the lousy dialogs from the D&amp; D 
 movie... eh... Don't question your power (as someone said in the film...) Hell, I was like WHAT 
 POWER? My character sucks and he's barely making it... Sure there are many ways to play the game 
 as different disciplines, but its the same damned game no matter what you do. It just changes how 
 you kill everything. The end game cut scenes were abrupt and left a lot to be desired for a game 
 I thought was going to be the **** of RPG Hack and Slash / Magic Games...
  
  Oh yeah, the limited edition packs some weapons not available to the norm and they can be okay, 
 but it doesn't save the game when it fails to provide that gut wrenching re playability you so 
 dearly long for. Scripted events suck and can more or less be figured out, you don't really change 
 anything so much as you get pushed down a path and get about three choices near the end of the 
 game... YeaY! You can see how happy I am about that. Great concepts, not so great execution and 
 terribly pieced together (OBVIOUS) story. J 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renegadeone8
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The 6.7 review on this is definitely NOT accurate. It does have some basic bugs, but those will 
 eventually be fixed. Every game has SOME flaws when it comes out. Patches will definitely come 
 out, so I won't rate it down for that. This being said, it hasn't crashed yet on my PC, though 
 I do reccomend getting the DVD version. I inputed my cd-key from the store bought version into 
 steam, and it downloaded so I was just going to play it from there. It didn't load though, so I 
 ended up using the DVD version (make sure you have a DVD drive... I had to go buy one just to play.) 
 Anyway it ran perfectly off of the DVD install. Make sure you delete the game content from steam, 
 or it will take up twice the hard drive space. My computer is pretty quick with a Geforce 7600GT, 
 and athlon64 at 2.4 GHz, and a gigabyte of Corsair XMS RAM. Even with this I had to turn some of 
 the graphics settings down (but nothing lower than medium.) HDR causes HUGE performance hits, so 
 turn it off especially with AA on. The gameplay is GREAT fun. Tons of actions, some decent skills, 
 but not so in depth that I'd call it an RPG. Definitely worth the time put into it. The multiplayer 
 is also pretty good fun. I would reccomend this to anyone, but I'd say only if you have a high 
 end PC or it will stutter quite a bit. I am playing on the Vista RC1 release candidate, so maybe 
 you will get better results with winXP, but so far it is running quite smooth this way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottAdams
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Wow... I have bough some buggy games, but the STEAM downloadable version of this game is ridiculous. 
 When I went to the Ubisoft boards to see if there were workarounds to the crashes and lock-ups, 
 I found hundreds and hundreds of folks with the same problems. Ubisoft says the problem is with 
 VALVe's STEAM download. STEAM says to contact Ubisoft with any problems. No one wants to stand-up 
 and take responsibility for the bad decision to distribute the game this way.
  
  When you can get the game to play, it seems completely average. A lower-end attempt at Oblivion-like 
 gameplay. The problem is, Oblivion came a good while back -- so you won't be terribly surprised 
 or impressed with much in the Dark Messiah game -- even worse, the gameplay in no way measures 
 up to a comparison to the Oblivion experience.
  
  (I know that M&amp; M and Oblivion are different types of games -- but everyone compares these two.)
 
  
  Other than that, I guess I would call the game neat at best. It has some nice graphics and cool 
 spells, etc., but nothing worth running out to the store to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jan_V
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah is action RPG set in the world of HoMaM5, the world of Ashan. Although there is so character 
 development and simple skill tree but it's more action than RPG game, but really great action game. I 
 never played game with such great combat experience. There are lot of different ways how to kill 
 your opponents and because of that the combat didn't become boring. Only few things to rebuke. The 
 story plot is very obvious, gameplay time could be longer, some minor bugs in the game and it needs 
 strong hardware to run. Though the game is really great and I recommend it to anyone who likes fantasy 
 and action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberMonk31
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  After reading other forums about this game and the Steam issue behind crashes. I decided to give 
 it a go. I bought the boxed version, didn't install the multi-player end of the game requiring 
 Steam. And so far, not one single crash. The game is solid, no doubt about it here. Let's see, 
 the review said the storyline was not really there. Well, so far it has been for me. Even the NPC's 
 reactions to me helps add to the feeling, I am there . Being able to see I HAVE LEGS! AND ARMS! 
 Is a nice change. The graphics looks real nice in here, the mood settings are done quite well. 
 Shadows nicely rendered and help that Thief feeling I get while playing. Everything runs pretty 
 damn smooth, except for some minor hiccups when first loading the new maps. I wonder if it would 
 have helped just to let the voice acting start a wee bit later after first loading a map. You won't 
 be disappointed in the graphics quality of this game, that's for sure. The only quirks I have about 
 the visuals is some of the models (trees mostly) , don't look like they fit here. They are a little 
 sparse looking and unrealistically modeled as a tree. And the sprites, while not looking to shabby, 
 they are noticeable and take away a little from the immersion. As for game play? Nice, real nice. 
 Everything acts as it should, the fighting styles and choices are refereshing to use. I do think 
 there are a little too many objects that you can kick your opponent onto to kill. But you won't 
 see me complaining when my health is low and no other options are available to aid me. Still, it 
 is very challenging whether you use them or not. I'm still used to fighting a la Oblivion , and 
 getting used to the bobbing &amp; weaving of the character while aiming a bow. As it should be, 
 real people don't float while moving side to side either. The different ways you can dispatch of 
 your opponents is sweet, no need to always hack and slash. Makes you think before you react, so 
 using strategy is key in all of the battles. Physics work really well here too. This isn't a button 
 smasher type of game which I am happy for. You need skills to fight battles. Mouse &amp; keyboard 
 and a brain. Not just a set of skill trees to make you invincible. Audio? Very nice, the music 
 is great, although in every game I turn it off, especially when I need to hear where the enemies 
 are. Voice acting was done well, not cheesy like some have been. Overall, this game is worth every 
 penny paid for. And considering how much some games go for these days, this was at least 10$ less. 
 Which was surprising considering what you are getting here. Which is why I put under-appreciated 
 as the classification. This is a winner in my books and recommend it to anyone who likes fps/rpg/action 
 games and want to try a refreshing approach to them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antpile
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  First off, I have to say that normally I agree with Jeff one hundred percent on the great majority 
 of reviews, or pretty much anything for that matter, that he writes. He's smart, he's hillarious, 
 and doesn't pull any punches when it comes to his game reviews.
  
  However, I disagree with his review of Dark Messiah. It isn't the best game to ever hit the ever 
 shrinking PC games shelf at EB, but it isn't a bad game either. I find the game to be quite enjoyable 
 and a lot of the single player story gave me memories of the original Half Life with the way it 
 makes you feel like you are in a movie or something along those lines. Don't confuse that statement 
 to mean the story itself is as good as Half Life's story was, just that presentation of it is reminiscient 
 of Half Life.
  
  The single player story isn't going to knock your socks off with its twists and turns. This is 
 no Knights of the Old Republic. The game gives you too many hints entirely too early about the 
 eventual twist and ruins what could have been a good unforseen bend in the road. The voice acting 
 is mediocre for most of the game, but a few of the game's characters are actually acted pretty 
 well; most notably Leanna and a certain necromancer lord that I cannot recall the name of off hand. 
 Xana is decently voice acted as well, which is good since you will being hearing from her... a 
 lot. Phenrig, while not horribly voice acted in an acting sort of way, came off as very cheesy 
 to me. he reminds me of one of your bonehead D&amp; D buddies trying to pull off a deep and powerful 
 sounding voice during one of your dice rolling expeditions. I didn't not find Xana to be annoying 
 as Jeff did in his review, although I do think she is often too quick to tell you how to proceed 
 in certain rooms that would only require a bit of looking around and maybe a tad bit of using the 
 old noggin. We're not talking about brain benders here. The ending also leaves a lot to be desired.
 
  
  The combat, as Jeff said, is a bit repetitive, but not in a bad way. The game doesn't make fighting 
 difficult by making the AI really intelligent; Rather, it throws lots enemies at you in varying 
 environments that will often have reinforcements come in from odd directions as you kill off your 
 targets. The result is that you tend to spend a lot of time jabbing and running, lining your targets 
 up for a kick into a bonfire or spikewall only to get hit in the back of the head by a new enemy 
 that you had not seen arrive on the scene. On normal, this isn't too bad and you won't die all 
 that much more than likely. However, on hard the game pulls no punches and you will probably be 
 taking many dirt naps in just the first few chapters of the game. Playing this game on hard is 
 very rewarding as every fight can be a challenge and you could die in almost any engagement. It 
 gives the game a much better mood as you'll spend a lot more time sneaking around, assessing the 
 situation, and sometimes just avoiding fights all together. Hard mode will make you appreciate 
 the power of things like stealth and the charm spell, to be sure. All that being said, hard mode 
 will not be for everyone as it can be very difficult. I wish there was a mode in between the rather 
 easy normal mode and the very difficult hard mode.
  
  The sword is a powerful weapon in Dark Messiah, to be sure. I, however, do not agree with the using 
 any other weapon is a waste of your time feeling that I got from Jeff's review. Especially on the 
 hard difficulty setting, I find any enemy you can take out from a distance is a good thing. He 
 was also critical of the flame arrow spell that is the first spell you'll acquire on the damage 
 side of the tree. I went through the game the first time as an entirely mage based character and 
 found this spell to be useful right up into the final chapters. It does more damage per second 
 than fireball, which is much further down the tree, by far. It is your weapon of choice against 
 spiders and humans most of the time. Fireball isn't so much about the damage as it is the knocking 
 people around effect of it. Even against fire resistant enemies and groups of enemies, rapid firing 
 flame arrow will not only add a decent bit of damage to your target, but is the fastest way to 
 build adrenaline in the whole game with the possible exception of inferno. I found myself spraying 
 it into a group of ghouls while backpedalling quite often just to get an adrenaline bar, then switching 
 to lightning to kill them all with an adrenaline powered chain lightning effect. In the very final 
 chapters many of the guards will still go down to only three to five flame arrows (on normal skill) , 
 which you can easily fire off in mere seconds due to its rapid rate of fire.
  
  On the techincal aspect, the game looks good and sounds good. The physics of the game is great 
 and leads to many of the same battles turning out in different and entertaining ways. Just trying 
 to be creative in your use of the environment can be hillarious as you send enemies tumbling down 
 stairs, tripping over eachother, being set on fire as flaming boxes are kicked into their head, 
 or careening off edges as they slip on an ice slick you placed near an edge.
  
  As far as technical difficulties go, I had absolutely none. The game ran perfect for me from start 
 to finish and has yet to crash or give me any problems whatsoever. Perhaps I was a lucky one, or 
 perhaps Jeff just had a string of bad luck. I can't say for sure as I have only tried it on this 
 one machine. The only very minor downside being that if you need to alt-tab back to windows or 
 the game gets minimized due to an incoming IM or something, it takes a few minutes for the game 
 to maximize again.
  
  The multiplayer is fun and fast paced. Like all games of this type, it is much more enjoyable if 
 you find a group of guys you enjoy playing with or just happen to end up on a team that uses teamwork 
 and supports eachother. The crusade mode plays a lot like a game of Battlefront or whatever version 
 of Battlefield you prefer, except minus vehicles. I find it more enjoyable and I like the fantasy 
 setting. There is something more exciting about having to stalk your prey as an assassin or figure 
 out how to get close without being killed as a warrior. To balance things out, if a warrior does 
 manage to get close to someone he'll pretty much instantly shred anything other than another warrior. 
 To counteract the effects of lag and random strafing the game furnishes the warrior and assassin 
 with a lockon button to keep your target in your crosshairs, which pretty much means if you catch 
 them they have about a two and a half second life expectancy. This can be pretty frustrating at 
 first if you choose to play one of the distance fighters, especially the wizard and archer, as 
 you'll find yourself constantly getting smacked down by warriors who just charge you. After a while 
 though, you'll figure out how to better stay out of melee range, which is much easier if you stand 
 back and support your team from a distance. This is not always an option when joining public games 
 as you never know what kind of idiots you'll have on your team, but you can still hold your own 
 with a wizard in one on one with some practice.
  
  All in all I find Dark Messiah of Might and Magic to be a solid game definitely worth your hard 
 earned dollar if you have any interest in the genre, which is a melee heavy FPS. This game is very 
 light on the role playing and very heavy on the slashing and kicking. The multiplayer is also likely 
 to keep you entertained well after you've played through the single player game if you are into 
 that sort of thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abigor6
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  In fact when a sew the score the game got from gamespot, I had my doubts getting it, I mean 6.7, 
 with a score like that the game should be some unbalanced beta release
  But I took my chance and got the game anywayand I was surprised, the game is actually a solid 
 and a fun to play one
  
  The graphics: on gamespot it got a 7, I mean come on the is absolutely gorgeous in some aspects 
 better then oblivion, gothic 3 and some other 1st person games. I would say an eye candy.
  The castles and forts are huge and impressive, the outside looks even better, with shadow and sun 
 effects, not to mention the huge Cyclops and the dragon, its got to be more then 7 for sure.
 
  On the other hand I cant ignore the bugs &amp; the glitches, I have a pretty good system but 
 the 1st chapter of the game was unbearably slow and choppy, but it got better when I progressed 
 the game.
  
  Gameplay: at 1st I was thinking the gameplay would be repetitive and I will get bored, but guess 
 what I didnt! I mean dark messiah is not an oblivion or gothic 3 but then again he is not suppose 
 to be, its not an RPG game, its more of a hach-and-slash/FPS game set in fantasy world with some 
 RPG elements, similar to the old dues ex a mix of 2 gainers.
  The main plot is not the most original one and the script is not breath taking, but the game is 
 fun smooth going, in the end of the day it delivers!
  The down side is the spell in the game are visually impressive and thats about it, the more powerful 
 spells are not very handy and not very powerful at all, so the game best played as a fighter.
 
  
  Sound: I didnt like the sound very much, the voice acting sound almost amateur like, no decent 
 ambient sounds or a cool music or theme like in oblivion or gothic 3, I would say the games downfall 
 would be the sound.
  
  Value: well in my opinion the game fun to play but on the other side too short in one day I manage 
 to complete 6 chapters out of 9, meaning the game will end pretty fast if you play daily.
  No side quests, or open space to roam, just the main plot
  On the bright side its got some replay 
 value, after all you got 3 different classes in game, if you played as a fighter you can always 
 play again as wizard or thief At the end of the day I think this game is a good surprise and it 
 delivers action and a decent amount of gameplay and fun to anyone who like game of a style, kindda 
 like arx fatalis, if you like it  you will like dark messiah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7540
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  The Dark Messiah of Might and Magic is another Elder Scrolls. It is the latest FPS RPG that Ubisoft 
 and Arkane Studios have set out to acomplish, and they have, but only slightly. Gamespot should've 
 considered this a higher rating. At first, I thought what crap! but as I progressed I started to 
 learn the ropes. The Dark Messiah has a tough learning curve, but if you're willing to waste a 
 few hours on the tutorial then feel free. The free-roaming thingy doesn't fit well with the story. 
 Speaking of the story, I didn't know what the hell was going on right from the beginning. Only 
 around the last two chapters I fully understood. Of course, the kills are satisfying, but something 
 doesn't feel right about this game. That's up to you to decide what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hojo80
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for some time, the thought of a game with this subject matter 
 being brought to life on valves source engine was a tantalizing concept to me to say that least. 
 I downloaded it via Steam took a day and i started this half-life.... esk first-person slasher up 
 and started plugin away. my first impression of it was wow this is great i can't wait to see what 
 all this game is packin in it's gameplay and the gameplay as far as the sword fighting is great 
 i think, being able to with twitch reflexes to quickly parry your opponents attack is fun even 
 though their attacks are horribly fore-casted by their movements. fighting the cyclopse undead 
 or un-undead.... is not fun you have to slash upward and all you see is a worm's eye view of it 
 and the ceiling or sky you lose all knowledge of where you're stepping and if you're comin to a 
 wall or something that could kill ya. the magic has that instant neat affect on ya but you rarely 
 think to use most of them in a fight and you can't use magic and your melee weapon at the same 
 time something that made Oblivion's combat (the only real recent comparison to Dark Messiah) so 
 addictive. the use of physics in this game is just what you'd expect from valves source engine 
 and if you keep your brain from gettin sucked into the repetitive swordplay it keeps the game interesting 
 but you gotta take your time and scope the environments out to take advantage of them. And those 
 things are all the elements of the game really that's where it falls short, it delivers early and 
 just keeps throwin it at you over and over again, the story could have been so much better (Ubisoft 
 i got some ideas that'll blow your mind... in either a good or bad way, one things for sure i'd 
 leave an impression) . the story is less than memorable, it starts out like with huge holes in the 
 plot that i guess were put there to be filled later with twists that are pretty very predictable. 
 The story is also far too linear, for such a mundane plot. Half-life 2 was extremely linear but 
 atleast the story was great enough to allow it. Oblivion's story wasn't great but it made up for 
 it by allowing for open-ended exploration that shaped the game and your role in the game around 
 your preferences and really your personality. Dark Messiah just kinda puts it out there are relies 
 on peoples ability to shut their higher brain functions off and click, which is easy enough to 
 do. it's fun and you will enjoy it but afterwards you'll instantly start to think about what was 
 missing in this rather short game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I came into Dark Messiah expecting to see another Oblivion look-a-like and I was proved wrong within 
 the first few minutes. Dark Messiah has pretty graphics like Oblivion does but they look more on 
 the grittier side which is kinda cool. There are a lot of different ways to kill an enemy such 
 as kick him into a spike trap, push over ledge, drop barrels on his head, etc. Because of the many 
 ways of killing an opponent the game isn't as linear but with little freedom of where do go to 
 get to your objective, it is very hard to not notice some linear gameplay. The physics in Dark 
 Messiah are from the Source Engine and contribute to sweet and amusing kills. When the action really 
 heated up I noticed the music fit very well and was very well composed (even though I don't know 
 anything about music making :&gt; ) . With that said overall the combat system isn't Oblivion but 
 it is nontheless satisfying. This game would be one my top 10 for this year but the very long loads 
 and frequent crashes (which made me replay from a certain save) doesn't make it one of the best. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfsa
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah of Might and Magic is a very decent rpg/fps action breed. This fact in itself is important 
 when you look at the black and white contrasting genres of todays games. Creating a fantasy themed 
 world with the immersion of first perspective is not a new thing of course, but success when it 
 comes to making an atmosphere and a sense of presence really is. The graphics are maybe not a stunning 
 next gen, but the excellent Source engine results in a dynamic and believable world. HDR really 
 gives a nice lighting and shine that otherwise often is lacking in similar games. Gameplay is straightforward 
 and the controls are sharp, although the fighting does turn out to be a bit more shallow than one 
 might think at first. Sound is great. On the negative side, the single player game is a bit short 
 and the chapters and story feel somewhat weak. Although a certain voice in your head literally 
 helps to keep you on track and involved in the story itself. Moreover, it is questionable if the 
 multi player portion of the game will keep you entertained for long, as it lacks the immersion 
 and atmosphere of the fantasy world and instead turns into a standard deathmatch in unusual surroundings. 
 As to glitches and crashes i've had none at all, which maybe has something to do with me buying 
 it as a retail dvd and not from steam. Any such glitches and crashes, while being irritating, are 
 always solved in future updates, unless its something wrong with the computer system it's being 
 played upon. Loading times are indeed long, but this will hopefully be fixed in patches.
  
  Final thoughts. This game failed to reach my high expectations, but it on its own worth to be played. 
 I should add that in no way should this game be compared to TES4: Oblivion, it just isn't possible 
 or useful. If you, like me, are looking for interesting and mature fantasy worlds to experience 
 and explore then i will definitely recommend this one, although maybe not at full retail price. 
 Why not wait a while. Cfsa
  
  P. s.
  That Gamespot would give this game a ridiculous 6.7, while giving terrible games like Just Cause 
 a score of 7+, is just crazy. This most definitely lowers your credibility as serious reviewers 
 of games, considering that you really do influence peoples decisions of buying games or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrakeWindwalker
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is great and very different on how you play it. I would say that everyone should get 
 this game once a patch is out to fix the few bugs, rope bug, and the mp never load bug. This game 
 has the be first person medieval combat ever. How, when and where you attack matters, and kick 
 rocks. Rope bow is great. Traps work right. The only problems with the main story is that the Leanna 
 girl should have been like Alex in HL2: EP1, unkillable, useful and alive. They should have done 
 something other then the useless daemon mode. (ANYTHING else.... who in their right mind uses a 
 mode that hurts you and doesn't do as much damage as your normal weapon?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckylogan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  This game is an FPS and RPG hybrid that is fun to play. These kinds of genre crossing games should 
 be highly encouraged. I don't know about the gamespot review, it is very unfair. I don't believe 
 them anyway  they did the same thing to quake 4. There are better reviewers out there. If you 
 played half-life and oblivion, you should find this game a lot or fun. They have made good use 
 of the half-life 2 engine in an RPG setting. You also get to use the gravity gun mechanics by the 
 telekinesis skill. I like using the bow and arrow in this game a lot better than oblivion, since 
 you can zoom in much sooner and they do decent damage even earlier on. Yes, this game does not 
 have the same depth as oblivion but is does not pretend to. This game is an FPS disguised as an 
 RPG  and it works pretty well. I want to see more FPSes with more interesting elements like this 
  the FPS genre had started to get boring.
  
  The graphics are just as nice as half-life 2 (which is confusing as to why gamespot gave half-life 
 2 graphics a 10 and Dar Messiah a 7) . Character models are great (esp. the hottie women) . The game 
 runs silky smooth at maxed out setting at 1280x1034 and 4x AA, with my Athlon 64 3500 and 7800gt. 
 The sounds are pretty good too. The only sound that is sub-par is the main character  maybe it 
 is good that Gordon Freeman never speaks in the half-life series. As far the stability issue  
 I had the game crash on me only once. I wouldnt call that numerous crashes like gamespot did.
 
  
  The only gripe I have about this game is that it is too short  play it on hard if you havent 
 played it yet. Which unfortunately does not justify the $50 price tag ($60 for the collectors edition) . 
 This is an excellent $30 game, but only a good $50 one. At least it has better single player re-playability 
 than a standard FPS since you have to use your earned skill points for your choice of gameplay 
 (combat, magic or a combination) . Because this game is more of an FPS than an RPG, you are not 
 going to find and insane number of quests like in oblivion. The story and levels are very linear 
 which could disappoint some hard core RPG fans. I am pretty sure that the price on this game is 
 going to drop in a couple of weeks and some patches will be out by then. If you can wait a little 
 and not have big expectations, you'll have fun with this game. Or if money is not an issue go ahead 
 and get it now, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alterion
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Your time has come! Decide the fate of the world. In Dark Messiah of Might and Magic our hero Sareth 
 faces some tough choices. Depending on what you choose you may salvage what little morality there 
 is in the game or shatter it to pieces. This is the First Game that I have played in quite some 
 time where it is actually good to be bad. The deliciously twisted and sinister plot will keep your 
 interest throughout your time playing the game as will the constant action. The visuals in this 
 game are absolutely gorgeous (especially the water) and the physics are top notch. Proving yet 
 again that the source engine is one of the very best. The Combat styles in this game provide you 
 a wide range of possibilities as you progressively grow stronger and choose new abilities. The 
 enemy AI is fairly intelligent: Groups of enemies will separate to hunt you if you are hiding and 
 some will flank you to sneak up behind and deliver a surprise blow. One major improvement over 
 other games in this genre is that mini-games are done away with. One of the most truly immersive 
 experiences that I had with this game was crafting a magical blade where I actually got to pump 
 the bellows and hammer the still glowing blade into shape. The packaging for this game was refreshingly 
 solid in a year with very little effort spent on presentation ( Oblivion anyone?) . This game is 
 a true masterpiece and deserves a place in gaming history. I do have an issue with the storyline 
 however. For a game that cost me as much as TES IV Oblivion the storyline went way too fast. Also 
 There are way too many interior levels that look and feel more or less the same. On the technical 
 side of things the game has crashed on me on several occasions. Also the registration key that 
 came with the game is invalid. I won't be covering the multiplayer aspect of this game as that 
 too is malfunctioning but I hope that it has improved since the beta which, although somewhat fun, 
 had many flaws.
  All in all I loved this game and I have replayed it already twice but it still needs some TLC. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  I've never really been hyped up about this game so nothing there to disappoint me. I installed 
 the game and had crashes and stuttering all the time, which isnt a great start. I fixed this by 
 putting the textures to medium which instantly made the game stop crashing.
  
  The glitches and bugs get very annoying but i try not to let it get in the way. I loved the story 
 and the characters specially the female one whose inside you :) She's hawt when naked with the 
 devil horns :) I was abit disappointed though and thought it could have been sooo much better.
 
  
  Gameplay: I thought is brilliant, the ways you can kill the npcs mixed with the skills makes for 
 a much more in depth fps. It doesn't quit do a Gravity gun and reinvent FPS games but it still 
 will put ideas into developers heads.
  
  Graphics:
  
  They do look dated but they also still look Great, specially the character models. Hey atleast 
 nothing looks like plastic :) Sound: Sound and Music was great.
  
  Value:
  
  Single player is very short and the multiplayer sucks + the tax added on for the UK : ( Like $60 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgabrielson
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  I dont know if a competitor got to the gamespot reviewer and paid him off or what Because this 
 game is absolutely fantastic. It blows Oblivioun away on every account. The combat is gripping 
 and interactive with the world. The story line is no more transparent than ANY fantasy genre game... 
 The action is immediate and plausible, the cut scenese are smoothly blended into the gameplay and 
 most importantly the whole world captures that fantasy essence perfectly. Not any game ive seen 
 has blended all of these elements as perfectly as Dark Messiah. The story line is transparent?!! 
 What is this guy talking about ... its cool as hell, you see the big threats coming but thats a 
 standard device used often, look at Diablo, you kept seeing the big threats operating through cutscenes 
 long before you encountered them with your character and no one ever ripped on that story line.
 
  
  If you like Fantasy at ALL, as in if you ever enjoyed a fantasy novel, ever enjoyed a fantasy game 
 or a fantasy rpg, definitely pick this one up. PS: There are not that many glitches that i noticed, 
 nothing that took me out of the immersion into this beautiful dark dangerous world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killtek
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  I pre-purchased/downloaded Dark Messiah via Steam. Though this isn't a Steam review, I really believe 
 Valve should invest on its Steam infrastructure more. What's the sense of pre-loading when you 
 have to wait an hour or two to unlock/update and download the multiplayer component at launch. 
 Steam content servers were slow as molasses, sorry but until Valve actually spends real money on 
 its Steam infrastructure, I will not purchase from Steam again.
  
  Ok... I'm not going to lie, but the game is full of technical glitches and bugs. Basically you 
 have to dumb down your video settings etc.. to make this game run without load errors, memory errors 
 and crashes (this includes multi-player) . I have an AMD 64 X2 4800+, 2GB memory and 7800GTX SLI 
 rig, apparently I can't run the game with high settings.
  
  The developers are working on a patch, but will it be soon enough to save it in the long run.
 
  
  The single player game is actually *FUN* yes.. Fun. If any of you old schoolers remember Hexen 
 and enjoyed it, then DM will make you think you're back in 1996 playing Hexen with kick ass graphics 
 and *physics*. Yes, the physics in this game are as realistic as you can get for a computer game. 
 Graphics are just as good or better as HL2, graphics would be better than HL2 but again the technical 
 glitches stop you from fully enjoying the game and you may have to lower you video settings to 
 get pass these technical issues.
  
  Multiplayer: Ahhhh Multiplayer, If you're lucky to get it to connect and load to a 32 player server 
 it's actually fun. Again you have to lower your video settings... lower than the single player 
 settings... to actually connect to a server and not crash while on a server. Gameplay is fun when 
 the server is full, otherwise you'll be bored of it sooner than you can say CS: S :)
  The leveling of powers and skills is cool, but they definitely need more time to refine multiplayer. 
 Overall I give multiplayer DM a 7/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  I had been looking forward to getting this game for awhile before it came out, and when I saw the 
 message boards about how the game wasnt working very well i was a bit worried about getting it. 
 Then the gamespot review came out which gave it a pretty bad score for how good the game actually 
 is. Well I have played all the way through it without any problems after I had set the texture 
 detail to low which greatly improves loadtimes and stuttering. The game is everything I had hoped 
 it would be and exactly how I expected it to play. You could problary call this game a FPSRPG but 
 it is more like a straight up FPS with minor RPG elements mixed into it. As you do certain tasks 
 or accomplish goals the game gives you skill points which can be used to upgrade your character 
 in different ways, making you either mainly a warrior, assasin type, or a wizard. On my first playthrough 
 I pretty much focused everything on the warrior class which worked pretty good. This game has problary 
 the best melee combat ever in a FPS style game. It is visceral and sometimes pretty challenging 
 as well. You can do standard flurry attacks which dont usually work very well on a enemy with a 
 shield, or you can hold down the mouse button while pressing in a certain direction to do a power 
 strike. After you get a few hits in your adreniline meter fills up allowing you do to a fatality 
 move which some of them are very cool, my favorite being where you impale the enemy on your sword 
 then kick there corpse off onto the floor. One bad thing is the game is actually pretty short, 
 i finished it in about 10 hours and i thought there were more chapters than there was! The graphics 
 in the game are great and make good use of the source engine. The enviroments are very well done 
 and the enemy animations and models all look very nice. The sound effects and music are well done 
 as well, with swords clashing and enimies screaming. The story is pretty good although i wasnt 
 exactly sure what was going on all of the time, I think if they had spent a little more effort 
 on the story it could have been even better. Overall I would definatley recommend this game to 
 anyone who likes the genre, but one thing to note it may not be a good idea to install the multiplayer 
 portion of the game and let steam download the extra patches because thats one of the reasons I 
 heard the game wasnt working too well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zazgah
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  I've ever played
  The game experience it's insuperable and the fighting style is pretty good.
  Finally i don't 
 have words to describe how i feel playing this game.
  
  Vamos que jamas habia visto un juego que valiera tanto la pena, si no fuera xq el multiplayer no 
 me convence... seria el mejor juego en mucho tiempo XD (in a lot of time XD)
  
  Saco un muelle i lo tiro por el retrete i ya son dos muelles q van por el retrete! Saco un muelle 
 i lo tiro por el retrete i ya son dos muelles q van por el retrete! Saco un muelle i lo tiro por 
 el retrete i ya son dos muelles q van por el retrete! Saco un muelle i lo tiro por el retrete i 
 ya son dos muelles q van por el retrete! Saco un muelle i lo tiro por el retrete i ya son dos muelles 
 q van por el retrete! Saco un muelle i lo tiro por el retrete i ya son dos muelles q van por el 
 retrete! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newslacker
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Update 11/24/2006:
  Since the 1.01 patch I have been able to complete the game. It's quite fun now that it's playable. 
 Going through it a second time has been much easier and more enjoyable, knowing what skills work 
 and which ones don't. Turning down textures really, really helps load times and seems to limit 
 crashing.
  
  ---------------------
  
  I like the action RPG genre... alot. When I saw this I thought, Oblivion with much better combat, 
 an interactive environment, and fewer chests. What I ended up with was more of a Prince of Persia 
 puzzle experience with lots of Orcs, Goblins, and Guards that all say the same thing over and over 
 and have no intelligence whatsoever. What's the deal with all the spike traps all over? You never 
 need a weapon in this game. Just kick them into wall mounted spikes (in several different varieites) , 
 kick them off a ledge, or throw a barrel at them. The game is totally scripted for you to do one 
 thing, go straight. There's always some hole in the wall you have to find just to get to a lever 
 to pull to get to the next area. I should have known it would have been just like HL2.
  
  As far as the graphics and sound, I think they're great. Very immersive. Excellent textures, lighing, 
 etc. On the other hand, the magic is useless and looks like crap.
  
  Now, the real problem with this game is the crashing. The further I get through the game the more 
 frequently it craps out. Loading times are a joke so this is not a fun way to play. This is on 
 a stock Dell Pentium D box with an ATI Radeon x850 256mb video card. Somehow this game found a 
 way to crash my system the way none other could and for that reason I say don't waste your time. 
 I have no desire to play any more than I have, nor any desire to even try the multiplayer. The 
 only redeeming qualities of this game are what were advertised, a few sweet ways to kill your enemies.
 
  
  I'm going back to Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cristukle
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  Hi all,
  
  Well there's been a lot of comments and it's interesting to see everyone's point of view. It's 
 true that the bug is not yet bug free and there are some glitches.
  We all knew from the start that this game would require a good config, but i think the video settings 
 are easy to tweak and allow the game to run smoothly and beautifully even with lower settings.
 
  
  The graphics are seriously nice, sometime the game abuses HDR, but well it's ok. As for the monster 
 design well it's just magnificent !!! The way the ennemies move to avoid your blows is just fantastic. 
 And well they speak, they kick those guys will give you trouble because they can team to try and 
 take you from different angles !! The goblin are so stupid you'll be tempted not to kill the poor 
 kevin ^^
  
  Other than that the immersion is good, no music ! You're immersed with noises from your environment 
 ! The fact that you can replay it at least 3 times Warrior / Mage / Assassin and with a completly 
 different feeling to it. is also important. Even with the same char it's just so much fun to be 
 able to change killing method a will !! ^^ Throwing barrels on a weak floor to make the ennemy 
 fall down, kick them into the fire, snipe them with the Bow HS !! Sneak behind them and so on ^^
 
  
  As for the scenario, i've constantly heard it's predictable and all... Well i'm sorry to say that 
 at least this game HAS a scenario ! Some part may be predictable, but there's no way you'll know 
 what will happen right of the bat at the beginning of the game.
  
  The only thing i can't judge is the multiplayer, but from the beta i would think it can only be 
 better.
  
  Overall i think it's a really good game, try the demo if you're really no sure, but the simple 
 fact that people speak so much about the game is proof alone that this IS a major game ! Go for 
 it !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iserbius
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Exactly my style of game, in the vein of Thief / Deus Ex and these kind of games. This is a very 
 unique Action RPG, which brings new ideas and a new standard in this genre.
  I want more. I played as an assassin the first time, and I had a blast. The rope arrow is so fun 
 (like in Thief) , the backstab is extremely satisfying. I'll play again, but as a mage this time.
 
  The combat is very convincing, as everybody says. Anyone should be this game, at least just for 
 the pleasure of experiencing the combat.
  The world is very interactive as well, you can move / pickup most objects of the game. AIs are 
 fun, they flee, they trick you sometimes. I crashed a few times, but nothing too bad. Graphics 
 and animations are awesome, the style is dark and moody. Great audio, very atmospheric, almost 
 no music, but that's what I like.
  A true successor to Arx Fatalis (my other favourite game) , in a more Action type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_LL
Rating: 3.6
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  ... it is Dark Messiah. Some people may love the game, some people may hate it. Let me just start 
 off by saying that the controls are an utter mess! You walk with the mouse, using the motions to 
 move and you look up and down with the AWSD control scheme! And don't even bother trying to fix 
 it. The game just freezes when you pause! I've played through 3-something levels only to have it 
 get deleted when I tried to pause to get a drink! The graphics are (supposively) on the Source 
 Engine. But even with the highest settings, the game looks like it was done on the Quake III engine. 
 Even with the settings on bare-boned lows you will only get frame rates in the single digits, even 
 while looking at the ground! The mutliplayer (if you can call it that) is lifeless and unsatisfying. 
 Imagine hitting a tree with a baseball all day - you pictured it? - well that is what playing this 
 game is like. Repetitive, and after a while, it hurts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickstar28
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I've only encountered one bug with this game and that was an error i got loading the game saying 
 binkshouldskip@4, to fix this I searched lots of forums and found that I just had to get the bink 
 dll out of the bin (from the dm folder) and copy it into the main dm folder then it worked fine.
 
  
  The game, initially I found it to be very clunky and clumsy but something about it made me really 
 want to get to grips with the combat system, now I love it, the fact you can on the fly be a wizard, 
 stealthy dude or warrior is spot on. I play some bits like Thief and others like Severance, (the 
 assasin daggars kick ass) . I only really use magic against the spiders where I use fireballs, that's 
 just preferance tho because I don't like being a wizard in games, I just feel like too much of 
 a geeky world of warcraft player.... if it were a Jedi I was controlling then that'd be a different 
 matter, i'd hapily throw bolts of force lightning or whatever haha. The story is pretty standard 
 but it strings everything together well. One thing that distracts from the flow of the game is 
 the chu-chu-chu-chu chugging you get in places where the world is loading up but that might be 
 because my pc isn't from Mars.
  
  The mood and atmosphere in the game is great, the sound design and music are very good, the sounds 
 of the wood cracking and ambient atmos are brill, a testiment to how much I enjoy the game would 
 be to say that I'm currently also playing Fear Extraction Point, I love Fear it's 10/10 but I just 
 can't get round to playing EP because I keep on saying 'ah ok one more level on Dark Messiah'
 
  
  Ultimatly when this game clicks and starts making sense it's a brilliant ride, you walk into a 
 room full of orcs with a real 'bring it on' feeling and you asses what to do; stun that dude, kick 
 the dude on the left into those spikes, smak the stunned dude on the ground and then finish him 
 on the floor, pick up that barrel and lob it at those 3 dudes coming towards you get the adrenalin 
 power up and throw my dagger into that guys neck, charge another off a cliff and finish the final 
 guy off by kicking him onto the ground and stabbing him in the chest. The silence after battle 
 is wicked, you look arround and there's just loads of dead dudes decapitated and hanging off spikes, 
 yeah this game is wicked.
  
  Gamespot was unjustifiably harsh I think, they only really concentrated on the 'clumsy' combat 
 which you adapt to after about 3 levels and the buggyness of the game, well, they gave Boiling 
 Point and Vampire much higher scores and they are massivly more buggy that DM a lot more unpolished 
 and in my opinion not as good.
  
  Give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QualityJeverage
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: Since Multiplayer was developed by a completely different studio, I've decided not to factor 
 it into this review. This review concerns Single-Player only.
  
  Several Months ago, the Demo for Dark Messiah Might and Magic was released to the public. While 
 short, it offered some intense combat techniques and good character development.
  
  Now the full version has arrived, does it stack up to the lofty promises?
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Running 
 on an updated version of the Source engine, which powered 2004's acclaimed Half-Life 2, this game 
 holds quite well against other games. Despite some stuttering issues (Which were also present in 
 Half-Life 2) , the game looks and runs very well, and is quite well optimized for lower-end systems. 
 The HDR lighting is also very impressive, but is not recommended unless you've got a beefy Machine.
 
  
  SOUND:
  Sound effects such as Sword collisions, wood creaks, and other assorted bangs and crashes are all 
 quite well done in this one. But the overall sound quality is marred by some hit-or-miss Voice 
 work. There is some good voice acting, such as that of the overly voluptous Xana, or Leanna. But 
 Serath, the main character, sounds rather apathetic for most of the game. His words sound almost 
 as if he doesn't care about what's going on around him. However, some of the enemy chatter is impressive, 
 Orcs taunt you with deliberately awful grammar, and Goblins make humorous little jabs at you (In 
 fact, when you are playing through any Goblin-populated areas, I encourage you to take it slow, 
 wait in the shadows and listen to some of their conversations for more than a few good laughs.)
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Of course all the Amazing Graphics and Superb Sound in the world wouldn't mean a thing if the game 
 wasn't fun. Fortunately for us, Dark Messiah is no slouch in the Gameplay department.
  
  The game makes excellent use of the Source engine's Physics capabilities. Traps and Pitfalls abound 
 for you to use against your enemies, from falling barrels to swinging concrete pendulums, your 
 Sword is the last thing your opponents should be worried about.
  
  The game also incorporates a kick feature, in which you can kick your enemy. It may not sound innovative 
 or interesting, but it's a simple mechanic that adds a lot to combat. Kicking an Orc in the back 
 and watching him fall off a cliff is endless fun. Dark Messiah also includes a serviceable Character 
 Development system. Throughout your journey, you'll gain Skill Points which you can spend on various 
 abilities. The abilities you choose will generally reflect your playstyle. There are essentially 
 three different Combat styles you can select. These are the Warrior, who uses brute force with 
 Swords and Shields to dispatch his enemies. The Assassin, who uses a pair of Daggers and a bow 
 to stealthily deal with foes. And the Mage, who uses various Offensive and Defensive spells. You'll 
 never feel bound by any of the styles though, the game is open enough to allow for any combination 
 of the three. The weapons in the game look great, especially the Souldrinker you'll obtain later 
 in the game. The only gripe is that there aren't very many. There are really only two or three 
 different weapons for each Style, and each weapon is gained progressively, so there isn't much 
 strategy involved in your weapon selections. Essentially, whichever weapon you obtained most recently 
 is probably the best choice to use.
  
  Despite the limited weapons, the combat in this game is Visceral and Immersive. The game implements 
 a very realistic first-person experience not seen in many other games. The camera tilts and bobs 
 as you walk, sways to the left and right as you swing your sword, making for a realistic and genuinely 
 fun experience.
  
  TECHNICAL ISSUES:
  Ah well, it can't be all good can it? The one major problem with this game is the severe set of 
 bugs it has out of the box. Ubisoft has a patch on the way, but it's nevertheless frustrating. 
 Players have developed impromptu solutions to most bugs, but it's still irritating to have to do 
 so many things in order to play the game.
  
  One of the major problems is a Static issue, in which a constant Static sound comes out of the 
 speakers. This can be fixed in most cases by Verifying your cache files in Steam. The other most 
 prominent issue is severe Stuttering and long Load times. If you are using an Nvidia 6xxx series, 
 it is recommended that you go back to the 84. xx drivers as a temporary fix. Another method that 
 seems to work quite well, and for no conceivable reason, is to reduce Texture quality to Medium. 
 It may not look as good, but at least it makes the game playable. Despite the issues with Sound, 
 the Bugs, and the minor issues with Weapon selection, Dark Messiah Might and Magic is still a very 
 worthwhile experience for your PC. Once you solve the bug issues, you'll find an addictive, immersive, 
 and unique experience that will stick with you for some time.
  
  --If anyone has any comments they'd like to share with me, please feel free to message me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZuljinRaynor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  After the Gamespot score, I was shocked... until I found out it was reviewed by Jeff. I don't share 
 Jeff's review in most games he reviewed and DM is no different.
  
  The graphics are fantastic. The Source Engine is still kicking and it looks better than Half-Life 
 2 and Episode One. The game also scales nicely, although Ubi doesn't support the 800X600 resolution 
 for some odd reason. The textures are really great on the walls and the ground, as are the ones 
 on the models.
  
  Gameplay is also there. Unfortunately you don't feel the sword slash or the spell casting as in 
 other games. Most of this is at fault with the sound, but that later. The dagger combat for example, 
 is cool in it animations but when you see the attacks hitting, they seem weak. Same for the sword. 
 You don't seem to see that it's a strong sword or a powerful attack. The coolest part is maxing 
 out the Adrenaline and then doing a power attack. This can involve beheading someone and the action 
 slows down in a Max Payne style showing the death.
  
  Sound it probably the weakest point. The weapons don't really have the uff to them. They sound 
 like cling cling and pretty weak. The dialog is also weak and sometimes quite funny, mainly when 
 the some enemies spot you.
  
  Steam haters, you don't even need Steam for this game. If you want to play the multiplayer... then 
 you need Steam. The multiplayer is quite forgettable though and not really that interesting so 
 I will only base this review on the SP.
  
  Overall, it's a great game. That's assuming you will be able to play it without the bugs that some 
 people are getting. I haven't had any problems but you might. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan828
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately long load times and frequent crashes make this game a no go at the current time. 
 It'll probably be good once they get it patched, but it should not have been released yet. I for 
 one am growing tired of developers releasing beta quality software and letting their paying customers 
 be their beta testers. They should release it when it's done, not when they'll be able to make 
 the most money because the Christmas buying season is here.
  
  Other than that, has some cool features and can be really fun. Sneaking up and your enemy and kicking 
 him into a chasm just doesn't quit being fun, no matter how many times that you do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfx69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah of Might and Magic finds itself using a dated looking game engine, with over the top 
 gory gameplay, but with little depth in story or emotional / mental immersion. As much as Valve 
 and Arkane would like this title to be a huge success, many people are finding that the game just 
 doesn't deliver what the hype claims. The system requirements are high, the graphics look dated, 
 and the game is extremely buggy, with many serious flaws. For those looking for a quality first 
 person RPG game (which are very scarce in 2006) , you are recommended to buy Oblivion, or wait for 
 Gothic 3 or Neverwinter Nights 2, both coming in November 2006. Arkane Studios refused to pay this 
 site for a good review, so this site hired me to do a harsh one to punish them. Not really, but 
 it sounds sensational. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  First of all I am not going to say anything about Gamespot's rating of the game other than I am 
 highly surprised at the score given as this has to be one of the best games of 2006, if not the 
 best game ever.
  
  Billed as Half life meets oblivion, I think that is an unfair description because it is poles apart 
 with Oblivion as far as role playing games are concerned. This game is built on an enhanced version 
 of the Source engine and to be frank , this title is nothing more than a Half Life 2 mod. It is 
 Gordon Freeman with swords. That said the developers have done a damned good job.
  
  I understand a lot of people have had problems with stability but I have had no issues at all. 
 My only gripes have been installation of the game which requires 9GB HD space and took an age to 
 install. My only other concern is loading times when getting into the game. Other than that it 
 runs like a dream.
  
  With regard to the graphics they are absolutely superb. Despite the comparisons with Oblivion, 
 this game makes Oblivion look years (not only 6 months) old. The very nature of this game requires 
 the setting to be moody and dark but the game developers have done a wonderful job in keeping the 
 atmosphere while the player is not walking through pitch black corridors like in the woeful Doom 
 3.
  
  Sound is awesome with a great movie horror style score and good voice acting.
  
  At times this game has left me open mouthed - there are plenty of WTF moments, good storyline and 
 enough to keep you immersed and involved. Combat action is excellent and the goriness adds to the 
 realism. The animations are fantastic. If you liked Half Life 2 you will love this game. If you 
 didn't like HL2 you will STILL love this game.
  
  Buy it now ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amundbr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game defiantly deserves higher than a 6.7 that Gamespot gave. Despite the few flaws it had 
 when first released they were fixed immediately. Only complaint I have is it is really short, it 
 took approximatly 10 hours to play through but, like Oblivion there are a lot of different classes/combinations 
 you can pick from which extends the game play. I would say the game is similar to Oblivion but 
 has a much better combat system but it lacks in freedom. The combat system is like no other, is 
 much more immersive. Overall, great game and cant wait for the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubiwin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking that the bugs found in the beta version would have been solved; this 
 was a gross underestimate. Although Dark Messiah has some very appealing aspects about it, the 
 end product amounts to little more than a beta release. The fighting system is excellent and feels 
 natural, offering impressive slow motion kills and satisfying magical combat. The problem is that 
 the creatures you fight arent engaging targets. They are to strong to be dispatched quickly using 
 weapons or spells; so instead most of the time you resort to kicking them off cliffs or into spiked 
 walls. Also, many of them are just plain annoying: such as spiders whose poison nearly kills you 
 and flying tentacle monsters that do little more than swarm you. Even when you fight a Cyclopes 
 you do little more than wait for him to hit the ground and then strike him in the face over and 
 over until he is dead. The graphics are top tier (they are built on the Source engine) . The audio 
 is acceptable but not stellar and the plot is likewise. The real problem is the games instability. 
 After countless crashes, load errors, and system restarts, I found myself wondering if I was still 
 playing the beta release (it had the exact same errors) . All and all, Dark Messiah had the potential 
 to be an innovative and rewarding gaming experience; but due to the incredible instability and 
 weak plot, one is left with a $50 beta release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithlord
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot to be said about this game. Is it a first person shooter hybrid; or is it an action 
 RPG? Well, to be honest, I just dont know. I DO know, no one ever really reads these, so I will 
 speak my mind, as small as it is. First of all, after installing the game I could not even play, 
 that was strike 1. It told me I had the wrong disc inserted and this was 30 min old, with the Gamestop 
 receipt still warm in my wallet. I should have known something was amiss. After messing for about 
 1.5 hours trying to read forums and FAQs on the net, I finally got it working. So, any retail 
 game where I cant launch after installing has an immediate curve to overcome in my book. Hey, 
 not everyone is an Install Shield wizard, so I can cut them some slack.
  
  I launched the game and I started watching the intro scene. Poof desktop. WTH? Ok, well this was 
 strike 2. I looked at the install and it was: HOLY HELL almost 7Gig!!! And this was only single 
 player, I never even installed multiplayer. Oh my goodness. I figure a disk defrag is in order, 
 so off I go. After about 2 hours, I reboot, and play the game. No issues, well yet.
  
  Now the graphics seem to be dated to me. After seeing games like Oblivion and how smooth and seamless 
 the graphics are, this was what I was expecting. Yet, in Dark Messiah, the textures seem blocky 
 even when set to high and the FSAA does not seem to make one bit of difference after trying 2X,4X, 
 or 6X. Then there was the flickering of the framrate. It was quite noticeable, like when I played 
 the opening sequence of IDs Prey. Even on the default settings I noticed some major flickering, 
 (I use a viewsonic LCD screen with an NVIDIA GeForce 7900GT) , so I had to tweak the game for about 
 another 20 min to get the setting just right.
  
  Whew! Finally I can play. Wait, what happened to the tutorial that was in the demo? It never even 
 seems to tell you how to use magic, how to upgrade your skillset or anything. What if I never played 
 the demo, or even *GASP* looked at the manual? Luckily its kind of easy to pick up. Other than 
 some frustrating camera issues and jump mechanics, things play pretty well. The magic never feels 
 like it packs any sort of punch, and the weapons seem to have a been there done that kind of 
 feel. As I played through the first few levels, the fast pacing didnt really allow me to take 
 in the beauty of the scenery. You see, far away textures look wonderful, yet when trying to chase 
 creatures to avoid failing a mission, you miss some nice scenery. On the downside the jump mechanics 
 that I mentioned earlier, is sure to frustrate the most nimble fingers out there. Now what can 
 be said about the AI? Well, the artificial intelligence is about as smart as a brunette who is 
 a natural blonde: on the surface you look intelligent, but once you are asked a question, and you 
 open your mouth, POOF. People know the truth, and it isnt pretty. The AI has the same pattern, 
 either a) Outnumber and outflank your opponent, or b) just hack until you, the player, is dead. 
 With the AI of Call of Duty, Half Life 2, and so many others out there, this seems lacking. Hell 
 even Halo bots are smarter than this.
  
  The puzzles in the level are equal to Lego Duplo blocks. Fat, clumsy and made for 2-year-olds. 
 Hell, I had a harder time trying to solve the riddle on how to install a car seat in my Hyundai. 
 To this day I swear Greco has a R&amp; D team thinking of tortuous ways to make new parents squirm. 
 Either way, all the hype about using the environment to your advantage is just that, hype. Never 
 did it feel to me, as a player, that I needed to use the wall spikes to kill an opponent. Oh sure 
 there was a visceral thrill to seeing someone hang on the spikes of doom, but it was just too played 
 out. In closing, since I know no one really reads these, I am sure many will agree to disagree 
 with me about the letdown this game was. Over hyped, over marketed, and I (like you) fell for it. 
 If youre thinking of buying the game, download the demo, and see if you like it. Then multiply 
 the simplistic puzzles, frustrating camera, vague combat directions into a 15-20 game. THAT is 
 Might and Magic: Dark Messiah.
  
  ACR - Elgin, IL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rew-erace
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  I was verry dissapointed about the gamespots review... Sorry man, but this was the worst review 
 ever... I caught myself thinking that the autor is trying to burry it along with the Mage Knight 
 apocalipse our some other game, that got awfully lott gliches... The review`s author speaked only 
 about the games weak sides, and ignored the strong ones... This game is one of the few games in 
 this year that`s worth playing - yes, it`s short, yes, it gets old too fast, yes, the multiplayer 
 is kinda crappy... BUT its like a glass of absinth - it has to be drinken fast and burning in one 
 motion - And it`s worth that! I`ll never forget the tonns of fun i had with the ice spell in the 
 cliffs - woops! One wrong step and the ork slips ower the edge... What is i`m trying to say is 
 that this game offers great enviroment interactivity! Burning barrels, spikes on the walls, slippery 
 ice spell effects... If you like fantasy stories, verry intuitive and good looking combat system, 
 lots of enemies which are waiting for head amputation - this game is for you!
  I think the game is worth your time.
  
  P. S. The chicks in this game are soooo beatifull... 
 I wonder how they manage to do it... ;D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  The graphics are amazing, the gameplay is fun. Don't expect an Oblivion or Gothic type game, this 
 is a FPS with swords. Expect more and you will be disappointed, expect just that and you will be 
 happy with what it is. The use of the environment makes fights more interesting, you find yourself 
 studying your surroundings in the shadows before you make you attack. Sometimes this surprises 
 you even, I was in a fight and kicked my opponent into a wall, but to my surprise when I did so 
 a shelf with vases on it broke off above him pummeling down on top of him. Pretty cool. The AI 
 is ok, but there has been a few occasions I one shotted a guard in the head only to have his buddy 
 standing next to him not react at all. Most of the time this is not the case. Guards will run up 
 to other dead allies and bend down on a knee to check them out and then they start looking for 
 you. Other times they will run for help and bring more back with them. I have heard everything 
 from people cannot install this game to it being unplayable. I heard the same thing about GRAW, 
 and my system ran it to perfection so I was confident. I installed Dark Messiah, it defaulted to 
 max settings and 1600x1200 rez. I fired it up, it has run flawlessley and without so much as a 
 stutter. Zero graphics or sound glitches. I run a AMD 3700+, 2GB corsair ram, 2 7900 GT's SLI, 
 SB X-FI extreme music, on a Asus MB. In short, know what you are getting here (Half-Life with swords) 
 and you can have fun with this game. I hear the multiplayer will be awesome as well but have not 
 tried it. Well done.
  
  Update Edit:
  I since finished the single player game, the ending was not very climatic, but as a whole the game 
 was a great experience. I had NOT ONE crash the entire game, details maxed as far as I could get 
 them. The game was brilliant, I hope for a sequel to come soon. The only complaint I have is not 
 enough different environments and monsters. Otherwise great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decilling
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah of might and magic review.
  
  So I started the game on hard and it was a hard task, the AI is rather annoying at times, E. g. 
 I press E on an npc she says 'ok ill wait hear.' I walk of and she is behind me. its the little 
 things that bring this game down, the developers have tried to make things harder by adding more 
 npcs which really gets on my nerves. the skills system is also not that good. some things you simply 
 need the right skills for when it should be that all classes can do the same thing in different 
 ways. for example I was fighting a flying creature and it requires you to have some archer skills 
 or magical skills when I was playing a warrior. Also this game is really buggy, unable to climb 
 a ladder on the first mission is not really a good start. but once you get into the game its actually 
 quite fun. As for the plot, its some what lacking and the ending lets it down. The weapon system 
 is not that good either. you get all the good fun weapons towards the end of the game so you cant 
 enjoy them as much as you would like. On the up side the graphics are really good and the models 
 are really well made. The level design is simple and great, it looks nice and has some traps hear 
 and there. They have used a great lighting effect and it seeps threw the gaps in the wood. I like 
 the fact that there are a number of different endings but they are all short and disappointing. 
 Overall its well worth buying and if you are a rpg hack and slash fan like me you will enjoy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hennokling
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It does everything right and nothing wrong. The graphics are revolutionary, 
 the combat is in a league of its own and the storyline is immersive and keeps you wanting to come 
 back and have some more.
  
  I rate this game better than Oblivion, Half-Life 2, GTA SA and any other game that shares anything 
 in common with this game. I'd recommend this game to anyone. If you enjoy action, rpg, fps, stealth 
 or anything similar, this is the game for you. I would have payed 70 dollars to play this game. 
 Thats just how awesome it is.
  
  Recommend this review...
  
  or Else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aggiebrad
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  When I picked up Dark Messiah, I thought to myself this game has to be great, its from one of the 
 greatest franchises to ever hit the PC market, Might and Magic . But so sad is the case nowdays 
 where a great franchise can screw a game up so royally. Not only does this oblivion clone do nothing 
 to add to the genre, but it proclaims itself as a FPS RPG.... newsflash, Elder Scrolls has been 
 doing this since Morrowind!
  
  F for originality
  
  Keep your money and keep playing Oblivion. But if you just have to have DM, wait a couple weeks 
 and it will be on the $9.99 rack for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millbro
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  I would say its a very fun game.. and worth trying if you like action rpg's. The only downfall 
 is that every hour or 2 it locks up for me.. i cant even play it on the highest settings (recommended 
 specs) .. Its just too choppy and it freezes.. its not even bad FPS its just it locks up.. But when 
 they patch it or you can play through it its a fun game =)
  
  The graphics are great and the sound.. (when its not stuttering) is awsome. Have ran through most 
 of the game as a spell caster, kind of anoying too switch spells constantly but its fun picking 
 up enemys and throwing them around like dolls lol... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sobaka770
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  There's something weird about the rankings system on Gamespot. Dark Messiah is a very good game. 
 The combats are fun and the graphics are just outstanding, however i woudn't want to compare it 
 to the Oblivion ones because Dark Messiah is more of a Slasher game rather than an RPG. Despite 
 the presence of some minor bugs and the loading time which is quite long, when you go in you never 
 get out. The multi-player is a bit of a mess at the moment - it requires some time to get used 
 to the innovative game play. Maybe my ranking is a bit too much but at least that counterweights 
 the grade given by Gamespot. Personally i can't get why FIFA 07 which is a good game but with a 
 4-year-old graphics engine get a better grade than Dark Messiah (which uses an improved Steam engine) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elnce
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  1) this game is great.
  2) My original review was DELETED.... Why it was deleted? Constructive criticism on how Gamespot 
 rated this game. I was polite and professional.
  3) These are player reviews. Why would you moderate them? I read the rules. I did not break any 
 violation. To top it off, many people had agreed with my post and found it useful. Wonder how many 
 other reviews are stealthily erased. I really thought we could speak our mind over at Gamespot. 
 I try to be constructive, and never offend anyone in any fashion. I can honestly say that I am 
 i offended though, that my complete review would be trashed. Sigh.
  
  Well, lets try again.
  
  This game has amazing animation and psychics. Specifically the cyclops 
 and dragon for example. I think that this title should be in a higher bracket than Gamespot rates 
 it as. But everyone is entitled to their own opinion. Only difference is, many people rely on a 
 professional opinion and may never get a chance to for themselves. But thats why we have personal 
 reviews, from actual players - non employees of this site. All I ask of, is that you let me speak 
 my mind. Just because I don't agree with Gamespots review does not mean that my post should be 
 scrubbed, should it? Anyway, enjoy the game. Many of the player reviews are dead on. I wont go 
 into mine because It's gone and I took quite a bit of time to write it. Have fun :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moldovan76
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Dude... 6.7 from Gamespot. WTF? What were they thinking? I don't know whether to be mad, confused, 
 or if I'm taking crazy pills. I'm usually very critical and I think Dark Messiah is one of the 
 best games I've played in a long time.
  
  Sure, installation is long and Steam is quirky, but once it running it's the balls. I've also heard 
 there are some bugs on certain configurations (it runs smooth as silk for me) . The graphics and 
 art direction are breathtaking, like HL2 on steroids. Character models, animations, and AI are 
 all top notch. The gameplay is great with the hand-to-hand variety, magic, and character customization. 
 Especially like killing badies with the evironment (wall spikes, pushing off cliffs, fire etc.) 
 My only complaint is the physics are a little weird sometimes. The story and cutscenes are actually 
 very well done. I thought they looked a bit hokey at first, but it sucked my in (maybe I'm just 
 a sucker for hot demon chicks though...) . Definitely something different and worth wasting many 
 hours on.
  
  I've been playing for about four hours and am only on chapter 4, so it's good lenth. Haven't even 
 tried multiplayer yet, but can't wait to get into it.
  
  Not sure how it plays on older machines but I've heard it scales very well at lower settings. I'm 
 currently playing at 1900x1200, 4xAA, 8xAF, all settings at 50-60FPS (4400 X2, 2GB RAM, 2x7900GTO 
 SLI) . It's amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah: Might and Magic is a good game when it is running well. But it has a nasty habit 
 of lagging out after a simple reload. It seems a fairly prevalent bug, that after so many reloads 
 (re-spawning at last save point after a death) the game just lags out, and the sound and audio 
 become extremely choppy, if it's not altogether unplayable. This problem is fairly infrequent (avoided 
 by not dieing repeatedly) and is fixed by restarting your game. There have been some other issues 
 with the character clipping through the level and falling into a bottomless pit. (Happened to me 
 twice in the first 2 hours of playing the game)
  
  The game only has 2 difficulty settings, Normal &amp; Hard. Having found playing on Normal fairly 
 difficult for a 1st time go on the game, I can imagine how many times I will die going through 
 on Hard. This inherent difficulty is not necessarily a bad thing, as It does make killing your 
 enemies that much more satisfying. There are many ways in which a player can go about defeating 
 their foes, they can simply hack and slash their way through with a sword, or snipe with a bow. 
 The game encourages creativity, and most rooms have environmental objects in which you can interact 
 with. Most notably there are spikes scattered around most levels, and players can quickly kill 
 enemy units by impaling them onto the spikes. Another technique I found interesting to watch was 
 to cast the freeze spell on the ground, and cause an enemy to rush you, and slip on the icy patch 
 you placed on the floor, you can than finish them off.
  
  Graphics in the game are top notch... although you will need a top of the line system to run all 
 the options at higher resolutions, I've found that my middle of the road system is more than capable 
 of playing the game with most of the eye candy turned up. There are some really interesting and 
 intense levels to play in the game, a personal favorite was the series of levels in which you are 
 chasing a ghoul from roof-top to roof-top, jumping and climbing from ropes to roof tops to other 
 ropes. It took a couple tries to beat the level, but it was defiantly a unique and fun level, and 
 one of the better scripted levels Ive played in a game in a long time.
  
  Overall Dark Messiah is a some what unique game. I have found it to be one of the better 1st person 
 Melee/Action RPG games. But there are defiantly some issues with the games performance on my system 
 and other systems. In the end the performance issues truly keep this game from being great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acehighwind311
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Now im not much of a reviewer, but i have been with gamespot to the end and this recent review 
 of this game is appauling, i mean can you guys actually play the game and not admire the time that 
 went into making this game, the cyclops battle is so sick, you can kill many differnt ways, great 
 use with the source engine, i have to say i enjoy the gamplay over oblivian, only thing oblivion 
 has going for it is that it's big and nice graphics. Dark Messiah rocks, i seriously have always 
 went by gamespy's reviews for games expecially the ones that im going to buy, but this has got 
 to be the worst review in history, it sounds like only one person played it. Now i do agree with 
 the glitches which i have found few so far. I am at teh end of the game, iv only had 2 lock ups, 
 and there is probably a patch coming soon via steam or whatever, but i mean it runs really smooth 
 plays nice, i mean i can't put it down, and i wanted to put oblivion down teh moment i picked it 
 up. I guess gamespot's review i think came to straight down opinion on the score of this game, 
 because i usually see more consistancy in the material they use for refrence in there reviews, 
 and this like some other games, is the worst case of it. But don't let my hate make you not want 
 to play this game, i mean play the demo if your unsure, it's so worth it once you get into it. 
 The class system is great, though i do agree you do alot more thinking in execution, but i think 
 that's the creator's idea is a game that emerses you mentally and physically. If you played oblivion 
 and beat it 100%, and want somethin differnt get this, if you like fantasy you owe yourself to 
 check it out.
  
  My only Complaint in the game is that i wanted more boss battle's, but it still a thrilling game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kninetik
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a RPG-styled FPS that leans towards action and mayhem. It felt like a breath of fun fresh 
 air when I started playing this game. Melee combat is engaging, and very exciting. There are plenty 
 of options to dispose of a foe and kicking a goblin off a bridge brings a grin every time! However, 
 I can list the different types of enemies off the top of my head and that list does not stretch 
 very far. So once you get used to the enemies, the combat aspect tends to get tedious. The best 
 the game throws at you to keep it a challenge is to throw a larger number of mobs at you which 
 brings on more tedious hack and slash and sometimes downright frustration. Whereas Oblivion was 
 best served hours at a time, this game is best taken in small sips. Graphics - 9.5: There are some 
 eye popping scenes in this game. The orc cliff village had jaw dropping visuals. The outdoor designs 
 are well done and are beautiful. The indoor dungeons are dark and creepy which give an amazing 
 atmosphere. However, slowdowns are very noticeable at times but the Steam engine is gorgeous and 
 it shows. This game has some of the best graphical environment I've seen to date. However unlike 
 Oblivion, you cant really touch everything you see in the distance.
  
  Gameplay - 6.5: Melee and Archers do not get any new skills to play with so their development throughout 
 the game is minimal. You can play a mixed bag of classes to your liking but only magic users get 
 new spells to play with. Dungeon crawling does get boring at times and whoever decided to put the 
 poison aspect into the game needs to be shot. It is just downright frustrating to go from full 
 health to 4 from getting hit once by any spider. And spiders come in packs... Despite these drawbacks, 
 I found the game to be enjoyable most of the times. I just wished I took it slower.
  
  Longetivity - 5.0: Too short on the single player campaign. The multiplayer aspect is messy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Son_Jazrin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I'll be blunt, I like this game and I like it very much. However it misses the core componets to 
 make this an epic game. The one overshadowing disapointment is the horrible lack of replay value. 
 After a mere 20 or so hours, you really don't want to play it anymore. This should never happen 
 when paying $50 for a plastic DVD &amp; case. As far as multiplayer goes if your going to play 
 crusade, whos play style is oddly familiar to BF, then go get BF. Better yet, get their sequels, 
 cost you half as much and at the very least, double Dark Messiah's replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brexak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  a 7 for the graphics and sound? this is the evidence, even for those guys that didnt like the game 
 that this guy had some bad blood with the developers, you have to admit that something is wrong 
 here. the graphics are definitely a 9 point something. this reviewer had some kind of argument 
 with the developers and then took it out on the review. 6.7 is way below the average score of other 
 reviews. what im saying with this is that people should not let themselves be guided by the opinion 
 of one person, i for one value more the opinion of real gamers than that of some stiff people with 
 some hidden agendas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I won't start telling you how the story goes you can all read it in the Gamespot review. Because 
 of the 6.7 they gave the game i just had to review this one.
  
  Dark Messiah could be best described like Oblivion meets Half Life 2. The game uses the HL2 engine 
 so many things look familiar and at the same time they don't, but the HL2 engine works still fine 
 for me. The oblivion feeling is basically the way how you fight and with what weapons you fight, 
 not the RPG part.
  
  Dark Messiah starts quite nice (after the tutorial i mean) , the city you visit is under attack 
 by Necromancers and a huge cyclops. Just like in Half Life 2 you get several nice 'hard' enemies 
 from time to time which is fun ofcourse. The way how you kill your enemies is also very well done 
 which would need some kind of skill to do it right. But there's also the RPG-element in the game. 
 I think you can best describe this game as a FPS (except for the shooting: P) just because there 
 are not many RPG elements in the game. You can earn skill points and give your character better 
 melee skill, magic spells etc. This is quite nice but that's all there really is. The multiplayer 
 doesn't seem very fun but i did not play it much. So who should buy the game? Well i think people 
 who like First Person Shooters with a medieval theme. This game is not for RPG-only lovers. The 
 story is not like in FEAR but it's better than gamespot says. I hope i helped anyone with this 
 little review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alt_version
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I was apprehensive after the 6.7 review but I had played the demo and really liked it. I decided 
 to grab the game anyway and I cant say that I'm disappointed at all. The swordfights are just 
 great fun. The way that you can throw oil and light people on fire, throw barrels at Orcs, its 
 good stuff it really is. Now I am not calling this game of the year by a long shot. It does have 
 its drawbacks. It does have a repetitive tendency to it, run kill, run kill, but it falls along 
 the same lines as HL2, it adds a little something to every fight to change it up. I have not been 
 bored with it since I started this morning. I think gamespot went a little overboard with their 
 rating of it. In my opinion it is at least an 8 all around, the only thing that really gets me 
 is the story. Its not horrible, but it really isnt that good. Most of the time you dont know 
 what your doing or why. But it doesnt take away from my enjoyment of the game. Dont let the poor 
 rating convince you not to give this game a whirl, its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sub_euph
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I was quite shocked at Gamespot's lousy review of this game and I'm convinced the reviewer must 
 have been in a bad mood as I wasn't nearly as annoyed with some elements of the game (like the 
 'voice in your head' narrative, for example) as the reviewer.
  
  That said, this game can be frustrating technically speaking and could use some polish that a patch 
 or two could easily fix, but aside from that this game is great fun. Yes, the story is transparent, 
 the voice acting is mediocre but this is a fun game :) It's great to finally have a 'SHOOTER' that's 
 not hack-n-slash or run-n-gun... it takes a little more skill to dispatch your enemies here. And 
 naturally, a decent FPS with a fantasy theme is a rare treat, indeed.
  
  Notice I said 'shooter' and not rpg. Folks, this game is NOT an rpg, so I don't really see where 
 the 'Oblivion' comparisons and analysis of RPG elements come into play. Yes, you get skill points, 
 yes you can pick different 'class' skills to apply them to... in my mind, that does NOT qualify 
 it at all for reference as any sort of RPG. This is a fantasy FPS with one pseudo-rp element... keep 
 that in mind and this game will impress more than disappoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriz_hau
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  well i have been reading lots ab this game before it comes out (in particular the gamespot players 
 reviews) and when it does eventualli, i bought it right away. Before i installed the game however, i 
 was surprised to find out tat it has such a relatively low score from gamespot. Anyway to cut the 
 story short, i find the gamespot review to be rather inaccurate . First off, the game runs quite 
 smoothly on my system. Yes there are ocassionally some bugs and glitches, but still they arent 
 bad enough to spoil the flow of the gameplay. Worth noting, of course, is the innovative combat 
 system tat the designers have so perfectly implemented. It is indeed one of its kind ( for FPS) 
 for its realistic ( it feels like u are realli hitting someone wif a sword , finalli) and yet easy-to-pick 
 up swordplay. Plus the fact tat they have different stances for different weapons, the flexibility 
 of the combat system , at the very least, does not contribute to the game getting a 6.7!! Graphics 
 wise, it is more than satisfactory and the story, bearing in mind tat we are all experienced players, 
 cant be tat revolutionary to us any more=P
  
  However, i do agree wif many tat the game is way too short... within 3 hrs and i am already haf 
 way thru... so i think a major patch or an expansion would pretty much do the job and give this 
 game the creditials it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pakitoxocolater
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Maybe at the end you really realise is no more than an first person action game, but it's a lot 
 of things more, and they are almost all good.
  First of all, bad ones: including the previous one I have said, the other one is that you can't 
 make your own character like in games as Oblivion or Titan Quest, I mind, you can't make your character 
 many different from the rest, there are very few options.
  On the other side, there are good, and very good thins: first of all, the graphic quality of the 
 game is so good... the cities characters, etc are very good graohicaly; the prittiest things in this 
 game for me are the fights agains different kinds of monsters, they really achieved a good performance 
 with all that special effects they, ve made for the battles, and the blood... it's very funny and 
 realistic.
  The gameplay is really impresive also, I mind, you can brak some woods, and crash your enemies 
 or cut some cords and make them fall, really good.
  The adventure is as best as it can be when we talk about a genre like this one (medieval world, 
 with monsters, cristures and magic) .
  Finally It's very funy the special effect that they call stamina (when you fight during a log time 
 you will be able to hurt a critical damage) .
  Very funy, very very realistic... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aricdolokar
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  --- Gameplay ---
  What can I say the game is fun. Throwing daggers into people and creatures, kicking them off ledges, 
 having things hit them, chopping their heads off, stabbing them while they lay on the ground, throwing 
 barrels at them. By far the source physics is the best part of the gameplay. --- Graphics ---
 
  It is the source engine. It looks as expected. They are good to look at but don't expect anything 
 super impressive
  
  --- Sound ---
  Ok sounds, not something that you will find being played by an orchestra anytime soon. Some of 
 the sounds while walking didn't quite match what I expected. I haven't ever heard anyone make so 
 much noise walking on wood ever in my life. Not to mention why the monsters can't seem to hear 
 the excessive amount of noise you are making dropping onto barrels, or walking around.
  
  --- Value --- For a game touting itself as an RPG the story is straight forward and short. There 
 is almost no replay ability in single player, and games like this tend to not fare so well in multiplayer. 
 Unfortunately this game doesn't change that fact as the multiplayer is frustrating at times with 
 the problems and quite frankly boring. It is something to do but don't expect a battlefield type 
 experience, this isn't a game designed to be a multiplayer game. They did put some thought into 
 it, as it doesn't feel added at the last moment but it isn't necessarily good either.
  
  --- Other ---
  There is a few problems that people are having, sound stuttering, crashes, errors. 
 I encountered a few of them but by far the worst thing is the loading times, which often seemed 
 to be 5 minutes or more. Some tweaking may resolve this problem or possibly a patch however if 
 you have to spend a number of hours browsing web forums and editing settings to get a game to be 
 playable at your expectation it is an issue in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstar1983
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has been talked about for a long time and it doesnt live up to the hype. Also, all of 
 the people on here that are disagreeing with Gamespots verdict sound like fanboys. Backing your 
 point with insults and cheapshots doesnt really mean much to people who actually know what makes 
 a good game. For those of you reading this and are rolling your eyes like the brilliant pseudo 
 intellectual that you are, im geussing your saying to yourself who's this guy and wheres his example 
 of why the game sucks? 
  
  The answer is, i dont need one. I didnt say it sucked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dharnett
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This game has bugs, there is no denying that. But then so did half-life 2 when it came out, (and 
 some pretty major ones at that) . This game offers a unique FPS experience that I just think no 
 other FPS has offered before. The combat sequences are what you make of them, and yes while there 
 are some pretty easy way to kill your opponents, like kicking them off the nearest ledge, there 
 are also some pretty unique ones as well. My personal favorite, take a bottle of oil, throw at 
 opponent follow it up with a fire arrow or lovely fire spell and mix. To call at RPG is a bit of 
 a stretch, but it does incorporate some good ideas into how characters develop, which gives is 
 some pretty interesting options for replayability. The ability to go back and play as a thief for 
 example, makes it a different game all together. This is the first time gamespot and i have disagreed 
 so totally on a game review, but I have to admit at this point it is a little hard to see past 
 the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kreischweide
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  While playing the german version of the game, it reminded me of a good mix between high praised 
 titles such as Thief, Half-Life 2, Unreal and Severance. Using the Retail DVD-Version (not this 
 Steam stuff) i had no crashes, no technical problems or anything else that ruins my gameplay. But 
 i guess some people are lucky, others seem to have problems with it.
  
  The gameplay is mostly fluent, the story developes slowly but at least it has an interessting one, 
 sure you can quickly see where its headed too, but the way is the game, not the solution. The fights 
 are fast and offer many ways how to approach or execute a whole bunch of things. Goblins have very 
 nice things to say, fat cyclops break through walls, spiders hunt you down in narrowed corners 
 of caves. The other time you chase a zombie over the city-roofs. There was never a point where 
 i could say: Oh no, not again, it bores me.
  
  The physics are great, the graphics on a good compared to all Source Engine based games, which 
 still looks great. Sure its not an Oblivion, but Half-Life 2 isnt also or? Even Battlefield 2142 
 looks pretty ugly against it, the world is designed with love and you can see it 80% the time.
 
  
  Compared to Half-Life 2 it has nothing missing. I would even go so far that it beats it in many 
 aspects of fluent gameplay, storytelling, intelligent fights and atmosphere. Its not cold, its 
 not slow, and you dont drive horrible cars through never ending levels because you cant handle 
 an helicopter.
  
  The Dialogs are sometimes funny, sometime just too hasty, but at least it doesnt loose its humor 
 over the game. The nasty Xana, the childish niece, why didnt you mention it, they all have lovely 
 design dialog scripts.
  
  For me it was what HL2 : Episode 1 and Gothic 3 and Thief 3 should have been: An tremendous action 
 game, routing the player to an successfull and amazing time. Not this 6 hour straigt the same **** 
 stuff. I love it. I love single player games. Hugh. Satisfied player has spoken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpbooch
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo through several times and getting through most of level 4 of the single 
 player version, I must admit I'm hooked on this one. Few games I've played give me that feeling 
 of utter joy when performing certain moves or seeing villains hacked up by my doing. Particularly 
 making little sausages out of goblins... fun. While there are still some kinks being worked out 
 in its audio video it hasnt clouded the fun factor of the game. It sort of like playing Jedi Knight 
 through with only the light saber. The difficulty level is probably in the 6 range on normal, havent 
 played on hard. I am playing the first time through as a warrior heavy character so using a shield 
 and sword has been the main stay. I am definitely going to play this one through a few times building 
 up each class of character, which really adds to this games shelf life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troyboy2k
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  I was very skeptical about buying Dark Messiah of Might and Magic after Gamespot gave out its so 
 so review. Then I read all you your reviews and said well perhaps I can get something out of this 
 game. Well I currently cant' get past the prologue level before the engine crashes on my system. 
 I have done everything to try and fix this, update all my drivers, motherboard, set MM. exe under 
 my Data Execution Prevention (DEP) , and still to no luck has any of these things have solved any 
 of my issues. My computer is pretty well on the performance side, 256 MB Video card, 1GB of RAM, 
 3.2 GHz, P4 processor, its not the best but it should do pretty well for this game. Only thing 
 I have to think of is that perhaps one of my drivers is not supported in which im out of luck until 
 they patch this baby up. I hate to give this game a bad review because I really had great expectations 
 for this one, and I went ahead and didn't listen to Gamespot before purchasing this game. Now I 
 am riddled with bugs and performance issues that the development team should have taken an extra 
 week to solve before releasing this game.
  
  It's too bad this game should of had scored very well with me, but I dont have the tolorance for 
 a developer to release a game that doesn't work. I base my review off the Demo plus what I received 
 as a final product. The demo ran perfectly fine, and if I didn't play the demo my score would of 
 been a lot worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepcover
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, the gamespot reviewer was a bit unfair on this title. It's true that this is 
 much more an action game than an RPG, and that probably has to do with the limitations of the source 
 engine in creating a non-linear game. That being said, this is one of the most fun action/adventure 
 games I've played in a while. It's true that many of the techniques to kill enemies can be exploited, 
 but there's enough great action to overlook it. I'm pretty picky with games. I don't own a console 
 because I like the depth that the PC genre gives us. Dark Messiah kept me up until the wee hours 
 of the morning playing this addicting game. I'm having great fun being an assassin. If you don't 
 mind playing an action game with some RPG elements, then give this game a shot. If you want a true 
 3D RPG, well then you going to have to wait for Gothic 3. If you haven't played any of the Gothic 
 series, then shame on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrissp26
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah has been one of the most anticipated games this year and now its here it won't disapoint.
 
  
  The media on this site provides a great insight to those of you who have yet to decide whether 
 to buy.
  
  I think the bloke who reviewed this game for gamespot was either asleep when he played or too stoned 
 to notice. This game is a lot of fun, has superb graphics/physics and the sound is great.
  The reviewer is obviously one of these people that gets so wound up by the hype that by the time 
 it comes out its never going to meet their lofty expectations.
  
  I'm not going to go into a lot of detail regarding the game as I don't want to give anything away, 
 so lets just say that its worth getting and if you like RPG/FPS games such as oblivion then you 
 will no doubt like Dark Messiah.
  
  Time for gamespot to get some PC oriented gamers to review games instead of console fanboys methinks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntwining99
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Installing this game from steam was a pain. Preloading time was expected. But then, on release 
 day (which for steam was a day after official release) you have another long download and update. 
 I also had the pleasure of having to run a game cache check which fixs a sound bug the game has 
 (all NPC talking comes over as a loud static hiss) . Of course I only discovered this by reading 
 official forums since neither Ubisoft/Arkane nor Steam had released any official heads up or patch.
 
  With all the updates the game still occasioanlly crashes although I at least don't have horrible 
 load times.
  
  Still, even without all the bugs how is the game, you might ask.
  
  After playing the short demo I was desperate to play. After the third level of the game, though, 
 I was yawning. The swordplay, which at first seems to have many more options than oblivion, really 
 only has one extra. Fast slash or heavy slash. Granted you can swing your sword in one of the four 
 movement directions but the end result is pretty much the same. You never fight foes that are left 
 handed. Your left swing doesn't help any more than the right swing. The different weapons don't 
 do much and there certainly aren't alot that I've seen. Don't envision smashing someone's head 
 open with an axe or claymore. (Perhaps, I must think fps. You shoot someone with bullets or grenades, 
 period. Two ways of killing, more or less so it could be construed as the same) Still the combat 
 become stale quickly which begs the question: did the developers deliberatley make the demo short 
 and with very little action so that we would buy the game and THEN discover mold. (From the staleness 
 of the combat - i'm trying to be witty, stay with me) .
  
  The levels are actually quite generic and borning. You run in a garden that has hedges that are 
 about an inch thick. The architecht and carpenter of the indoor areas must have been schitzo (i 
 can't spell) since there are random jugs sitting on platforms above tables and such. I realise 
 the need to make traps we can use against our enemies but why the hell can't it BLEND into the 
 damn environment. So often it just looks so stupid.
  
  I don't know what the hell the writers were thinking - or perhaps the just were not.
  
  In 
 the end I would wait for bargain bin action on this one. Its fun enough but not $50 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikreyer
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Maybe I'm getting old or something, but this game has been extremely unsatisfying to the point 
 where I'd much rather stare at blank screen than keep playing it. I'll skip the usual review stuff 
 that has been mentioned in all other reviews and go straight to the problems. First, the game is 
 very buggy. I've only played through 2 chapters so far and I've already had game crash to desktop 
 on several occasions and become unresponsive on several occasions forcing me to restart it. Second, 
 loading times are worse than I find acceptable, especially quick load after death should've been 
 much faster. Third, to me personally, combat is as unsatisfying as it gets. Enemies keep moving 
 through you as if you were made out of thin air, the blows don't make an impression, physics don't 
 feel real, animations are worse than other reviews would leave to believe. If we take Oblivion 
 combat as a measure of how hand to hand combat should work, this is about 30% of that. Fourth, 
 dialogue is way lame : ( Graphics are okay, nothing all that special which would stand out and haven't 
 been done better before by others. Sound is okay i guess, does anyone really care all that much 
 about how good sounds in the game is ? Overall, the game just feels extremely shallow. No immersion 
 whatsoever. I just wish I would've waited for Gamespot review before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullcandy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  I'm not really understanding the 6.7 review given by gamespot so I'll just have to chalk it up 
 to fatigue. I guess when you play games for a living they all just blend together. Dark Messiah 
 isn't going to win any awards for it's fairly weak story or voice-acting, but the game as a whole 
 can stand on its own. The Source engine is used beautifully here, though there are times where 
 you wish the textures were a little more polished. Gameplay is fluid, and you are given multiple 
 ways to approach a scenario. Like to hack and slash? Charge right in there and start swinging that 
 sword. Or sneak up behind that orc and drive your daggers into its throat. You could even bypass 
 most of the enemies on the level if you're good enough. Maybe blast the heck out of everything 
 with your fireball, or freeze it solid and shatter it with a hammer. I do wish they has lengthened 
 the progress trees a bit more as there are a total of maybe 7 or 8 spells only you can choose from 
 and fewer choices on the fighter and rogue trees, but the limited tree progress means that you 
 are able to mix up your class a bit more. The multiplayer consists of five maps where you choose 
 to play as a human or an undead. You fight back and forth for the control of the maps until one 
 side progresses all the way to the final stand and emerges victorious. I would write a longer review 
 but I'm not sure if anyone actually reads these. Overall a game worth purchasing, and the few bugs 
 it has are easily overlooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xidum
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  this game was one of kind... in its reviews... and all those videos... but u have to play it... to 
 experience THOSE GOD DAMB BUGS... i mean... steam isnt the best, but this... this is a mockery of 
 all those good looking games... like oblivion... no bugs... unless u have a faulty hardrive... but 
 this to me anyway was gunna be better than oblivion... but no... another game ruined by steam.. WARNING 
 KIDS... dont get into steams car... these bugs have ruined a game... i think it was rushed... or they 
 have windows  2142 ... DISAPIONTING... i am not sure 
 if my pc lacks in the games requirments... or this game was rushed off the shelves... but what i 
 played of it,.. its a good game... combats good, NPC's are smart and hard to kill (well on hard anyway) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emorrow
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  Worse than Oblivion?:
  
  First off, I want to mention this is not an RPG game. So listening to bad reviews that compare 
 this game to Oblivion is asinine. It's an FPS, so if you don't like FPS you shouldn't play this 
 game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  By far the best thing about the game. It is unique, and fresh. No matter what some others say. 
 Battles can be very intense. Using the environment can be fun, but almost seems like cheating in 
 most instances. Battles never get repetitive unless you lack creativity. I found myself quite a 
 few times reloading a quicksave so I could play over a fight again and see if I could cause more 
 carnage. While the skill set is not large compared to say some RPG games, we have to compare it 
 to FPS games. The skill set is large enough to give this game replay value, especially coupled 
 with the fact that there are alternate endings. This is more than can be said for most FPS.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Definitely one of the best things about this game. Beautiful scenes, beautiful 
 models. If you have good system with a good video card, it will not disappoint here.
  
  Sound:
  
  The acting is not very good, but I've heard worse. It's tolerable. I didn't really 
 think anything was special about the sounds either, though there is nothing wrong with them. I 
 did sometimes find the comments that Xana made humorous however. Technical issues/bugs:
  
  I had problems running this game at first, and was extremely upset to say the least. 5-7 minute 
 load times, and stuttering made the game unplayable. Setting the texture level to medium fixed 
 all of this. I still have everything else set to high, with HDR and Anti-aliasing enabled and it 
 runs fine. I have an Ahtlon 64 3000+ with a 7800gt. Not top of the line stuff. This I believe, 
 has everything to do with the Source engine. So I can't really blame the game makers. Alot of the 
 other bugs were created by Steam. Most of those have already been resolved. The one thing I do 
 hold against this game as far as bugs go, is the issue with the 6800 series. Alot of 6800 users 
 are having odd rendering issues, and Arkane has came forward and stated there is an issue with 
 these cards. It's a really popular card, and seems kind of odd that this wasn't found/fixed before 
 the release. So marks off there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainmakerrng
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I have so much high hope for this game after playing the demo. The graphic was awsome, the gameplay 
 was refreshing -- it was fun. Now, playing the full version, this game isn't all that. How disappointing.
 
  
  Graphically, it could have been a lot better, A WHOLE LOT BETTER!!! Seriously, some of the texture 
 looks poor and outdated. Even on max everything, the graphic still looks poor. The character models 
 could use some more polygons and texture. Some are well done, but others are just minimal. I am 
 just not impressed. Feels like this game was rushed to finish.
  
  Gameplay-wise -- It's refreshing, after playing Oblivion's boring battle system for months, its 
 a welcoming change. I love the ability to interact with the environment and numerous ways of killing 
 enemies.
  
  Sound -- nothing good, nothing bad to complain either.
  
  Lastly, the storyline. It's an important part of everything RPG. Kinda like luck, it affects everything. 
 So far so good. I don't want to comment on it until I finish the game.
  
  Gamespot isn't far off. So, If you are planning on getting this tittle... just don't expect to 
 have that same feeling when you first set eyes on Oblivion. You'll be disappointed if you do. Update: 
 It grows on you!
  
  Gamespot is WAY off! After more than 3/4 through the game, I've found it to be much more entertaining 
 than Oblivion, least dull - action-wise. The story is also very good, what's there to expect from 
 video game these days? same old - same old -- save the world thing. Anyway, if you're an RPG fan, 
 you really should give it a chance, it may just grows on you.
  
  Update: Beated the Game
  
  Ok, just beated the game as an Assassin. And I am booting it up for round 2 now -- as a Warrior. 
 The graphic looks terrible with everything max out on my machine. After tunning a few things down 
 a bit, it looks good. The gameplay is still just as refreshing. It's always a rush taking a soldier, 
 orc, goblin or nacromancer's head, arms, legs, torso off. &gt;:- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ralithorn
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  I've put about 20 hours in to this game. Restarting a few times to try different skill combinations. 
 Each time I've started over I've found a lot more secret areas and magic items. These are the same 
 guys that made Arx Fatalis. So if you liked that game you will kind of understand what you are 
 getting in to. I suggest you try the single player demo out. As it's best to try out a game for 
 yourself.
  
  The game does have some bugs. But nothing that is game stopping. A few random crashes and the occasional 
 glitch with you hot keyed inventory. In short if you liked games like Blade of Darkness or Arx 
 Fatalis. Most likely you will enjoy this game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ord1000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  I guess a lot of people wont get this game. It has a fantasy style setting and is played in first 
 person, similar to Oblivion, yet it is nothing like Bethesda's game. It has RPG like elements, 
 but is not really an RPG.
  The best way to think about Dark messiah is imagine it as a first person shooter, but with swords 
 and magic instead of shotguns and rocket launchers.
  Although of course this again does the game a disservice,.
  Simply put this game is a much needed 
 breath of fresh air. utilising, and enhancing Valves Source engine the player is treated to an 
 incredible beautiful looking game. Of course using the source engine not only gives you a great 
 looking game it also treats the player to incredible in game physics. Using the physics when going 
 into battle with the NPCs is incredibly satisfying because there are so many ways to take down 
 your enemies utilising the environment around you. I just had a manic grin on my face while I used 
 my telekinesis power to throw jars of oil on to enemies and then setting them alight with my flame 
 power.
  Watching orcs slip on ice to their death on cliff peaks NEVER gets tired!
  Basic sword play is also very satisfying and brutal, using Mouse 1 to attack and mouse 2 to parry. 
 This gives the player opportunities to experiment with different swings, power moves and counter 
 on the fly.
  The atmosphere is excellent as is the beautifully orchestrated soundtrack.
  All in all, it has to be said that this is definitely one of the gaming highlights of the year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt0316
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game to release for a long time. I have tried the demo and the multiplayer 
 game before I decided to preorder through STEAM. The demo and multiplayer beta ran smooth, and 
 I had lots of fun. However, after the game was released this week, I felt bad. Please read the 
 following reason why I felt bad for this good game. = (
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~Gameplay~~~~~~~~~~
  When I first finished d/ling the game through STEAM, I couldn't wait to play it. Okey, then I started 
 the game. After I pressed the new game, I had watched the loading screen for at least 5 min. Okey, 
 I told myself this game is so awsome that it requires longer load time than other, no big deal. 
 After the first 5 min of the 1st level, I moved to level 2. Again, the loading screen. But this 
 time the loading time is additional 5 min (total of 10 min for loading) Okey, I thought the 2nd 
 lv of the map would be more content and playable since the 1st lv map was just like the one in 
 demo. Then, after the loading screen finished, I played another 10 min of the game... and it loads 
 again. I was like... WTF... How can this game to be such long coding? This was the point that disappointed 
 me the most out of anything.
  
  Other than that tedious long loading problem, I also encounter some freeze while playing through 
 the levels. I realized that it was like coding problem again. Because it froze when some events 
 are happening during the gameplay. Despite all the frozen/long ass waiting problems, the interactions 
 in the world of DM are very interesting. The environment surrounding can help you solve some tough 
 combats. The talents you choose ( skill tree) sometimes help you out too in some combat situations. 
 For example, if I have a flame type magic, I can through the oil bottle (surrounding object) to 
 the enemy and fire the flame magic on that enemy. Then, enjoy the buring effect on the enemy. =)
 
  
  Comparing the combat system to Obvilion, I think DM suits my style. In Obvilion, after you spend 
 like 40 hrs of the game, seeing enemy give you the feel of tedious. Either you sneak to the enemy 
 and backstab with anything, or you just click your left mouse button and c to cast spell and right 
 mount button to block. With DM, I can choose to do more with the environment or stick with the 
 bloody killing style =P. Yes, I like it, way better than Obvilion.
  
  The gameplay is suffering by the bad coding of the game ( got confirmed from the offical forum 
 that it is not the computer equipment issue. Some lucky ppl can load the map within 1 min, yet 
 some are just like me.. majority of ppl like me I would say) . If UBI can come out the patch that 
 fix most of the waiting problems, DM would receive 9 in the Gameplay score in my review. Before 
 that date come, let's stay with a score of 6. =)
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ Graphics ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  The graphics are using the HL2 engine. DM has made an unique world by using the HL2 engine. I say 
 they success. Comparing the graphics to HL2 and Obvilion, I would say DM stands out in its region. 
 Personally, I don't like the graphic style of Obvilion. Sometimes, I think it's too unreal for 
 me. However, with DM I don't have any bad feeling toward it. Therefore, DM got a 9 in its graphics 
 score.
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Sound ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  The sound is good (so far, I haven't completed the single game) . Therefore I would just give it 
 a standard score of 8 because I like a few of the sound.
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Value ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  Developer has claimed that this game has at least 15 hrs of 
 gameplay. It is way better than some of the 1st person shooting game like BF2. I personally found 
 BF2 to be the most boring stuff comparing to its older brother BF1. DM still has something that 
 pulled me back to play the game even though I'm sad with the loading time. Thus I would say a 9 
 in the value score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryax242
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  This game is just awesome, especially if you have a nice SLI gaming system. I sank so far into 
 this game during the story mode i couldn't get off my computer. Really nice to see how far FPRPGs 
 have come since the old Might And Magic days. I still play WoW so i wasn't really into Dark Messiah 
 for the multiplayer aspect of it, but i tried it. Its fun and great for killing an hour or two. 
 Really original multiplayer setup.
  
  Never listen to those gamespot reviews, they are wrong about 75% of the time. Best to check out 
 the player reviews, they are usually right on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N_Gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah of Might and Magic really deserves more than a mediocre 6.7.
  I have NO idea what they're on about with technical glitches. The only glitch i've discovered are 
 the loading times. But when you see what it loads, you simply don't care anymore.
  The graphics are simply amazing. How you swing your weapon is simply way cool. I seriously don't 
 understand how the combat is unsatisfying.
  It's a load of fun. Kicking enemies into spikes or off high ledges is really cool. The combat with 
 weapons is cool (especially with the daggers) .
  
  The sounds are good as well. Weapon sounds are good and so is the music.
  The story isn't amazing, 
 but I sure as hell wanted to find out what was going on.
  
  This is the best game I've played so far. No doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arturchix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah is an extremely fun action game. If you have played before any of the Might and Magic 
 games, be prepared that this game is not a RPG though it has several RPG elements like skills and 
 inventory. The game uses Source engine  the same that made Half-Life 2 one of the best games of 
 all times (so far) and the game feels somewhat similar to Half-Life 2, not Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion, 
 how many have compared it. Ive read lots of Dark Messiah reviews written by professional gaming 
 journalists, and IMO part of them treat the game very wrongly since this is not a RPG but pure 
 action game. And Dark Messiah delivers pure action!
  
  What I love most in the game is the combat which is the best Ive seen in any game so far. Player 
 can kill the enemies in dozen ways including swordfighting, backstabbing with daggers, burning 
 with direct damage spells, kick on spikes, freeze them and disintegrate into pieces, with Telekinesis 
 spell grab them and send to the Moon, etc. It was funny to read some reviews where some of the 
 reviewers called the Dark Messiah combat repetitive. Now if something is repetitive, then shooting 
 with the same guns all the game! In Dark Messiah during one game I was heavily using sword, bow 
 and several direct damage spells at the same time, which makes the game so much fun. And there 
 are enemies on whom certain attack works the best  for example, swordfighting against any melee 
 enemies, archery against zombies.
  
  The storyline of Dark Messiah is rather simple  if you have watched the last amazing trailer, 
 you already pretty much know what will happen there. There are several unexpected turns of events 
 though that you might find very suprising  for an action game it fits perfectly and once again 
 I disagree with several reviewers who say that the storyline is dull. If someone is dull, then 
 those reviewers!
  
  The graphics are really nice, as you could expect it from a game that uses Source engine. I was 
 playing the game on medium settings and yet I was amazed by the beauty of dungeons (though a bit 
 straightforward) and the detail the developers have put into them. The character models are well 
 designed as well though it made me smile that one of the main characters Leanna wears a miniskirt, 
 has big breasts and sounds so totally na&iuml; ve girl! Meanwhile Xana is a real succub character, 
 youll love her dialogues.
  
  Voice acting in the game is simply superb, I really cant add anything to it  it really feels 
 that the voices were recorded by professional actors, like in Half-Life 2. The game soundtrack 
 is amazing as well though I wish theyd use some themes a bit more  the same combat soundtrack 
 in the end of the game really started to feel a little repetitive but thats a minor thing.
  
  While I was experiencing no tech problems with the game, I know some gamers have so Id strongly 
 advise to install any patches up-to-date before trying the game, though I had absolutely no need 
 for one. The game demo gives a good example what the game is about, even if it shows so little. 
 Dark Messiah is one of the best games Ive played so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSorrow
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  gamespot was way too harsh on this game
  but critics often are
  they complain about glitches
  but i haven't come upon any yet
  
  its true that the stealth 
 elements blow in the game
  but this game is way fun to play
  its not a game you'd play over and over again
  but it is the king that you would find a year 
 later and go... o yeah, this rocked and then you play it
  
  its not perfect, but its way better than alot of the riff raff out there
  
  and for the story, 
 well i havent finished it yet, but i have no idea where it is going to go from here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hivihyar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  i agree with him , gamespot review, but on only 1 thing.
  that it has alot of buges and issues and crashes on some computers.
  the rest is compeletly false, 
 thats no reason to take down 1.5 of the score it deserves on the actual game, and being blind to 
 se graphics that can work on weak graphic card such as Geforce 5200MX, and still look awsome, getting 
 a 7, that just hardly makes any sense that much that people would think that guy took a bribe, 
 also, the new screenshots of it on gamespot, seem hardly on detail, like he did everything on low 
 on porpuse, the game looks so much better.
  
  but lets go to arkane for a sec.
  thier stupid actions began with the demo, very buggi for alot of players on diffrent issues, and 
 also many other bugs but atlist not crashing and black screen for me, they also gave an unfinished 
 demo, graphicly speaking, later on they should have released a fixed version, but they didnt.
 
  also on the multiplayer many bugs since the closed beta i was in, they didnt listen to our tips 
 and just updated it with some balance issues, that well.. its still not balanced, and new maps 
 to test.. instead of the graphics issue making u have to play with low texture and models etc so 
 it will load right.. and the loading screen ofcourse..
  altough the devs were all nice and stuff, that was being careless.
  
  they had plenty of time 
 to focus and fix this problems, but it seems they fixed none, they deserve a low grade for this 
 careless actions, but the game with out bugs, is still good, so about 9-8 for the graphic and gameplay 
 9, and sound, il leave that too that, dont know what u expect..
  value for crashes etc.. and reviewrs tilt are the only thing needing to go down, apperanlty becouse 
 of u, value realy does go down cuz of the crashes and short game, but it does have plenty of replay 
 value so thats also an up.
  and the reviewrs tilt for that bribe u took.
  
  the gameplay is yet, original, and briliant, anyone looking for someone new should get it, but, 
 id advice u to wait until they atlist release 1 patch, god knows how many this game needs but it 
 needs one now, most chance, as the game is right now, it wont work on ur super uber computer always, 
 and thats not ur fault, it just has so many issues right now..
  
  graphic, very good, realy good, and works on cards like Nvidia 5200MX, which is one hack of preformance.
 
  
  as i, being a player since the beta tester, the game just got boring realy fast.. as realy fast 
 i mean a few weeks :p but on a very good multi it lasts much more, so its more to value for burning 
 more time.
  i sticked to the assasian seeing it is one of the only classes that requires some skill (Well not 
 always) and u can take on a few alone in a fair fight, and archer needs more skill but well... 
 he needs also very very good ping..
  warrior needs to know basics of notice a cloacked assasian and how to fight another warrior, but 
 umm.. dunno.. not as fun also..
  mage, has overpower issues, priest, has overpowered bramble issue.
  fix that and u have a balanced 
 multi, or just wait for cool modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InjuredOldMan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  It has come to my attention that nobody cares about quality games today. Besides resident evil 
 4 and half-life 2, most of the highest rated games are horrible. For example, the grand theft auto 
 games, they're fairly poor in graphics (which seems to be what games are all about these days) and 
 is based araound anoying tasks that stick to pretty basic elements of gameplay, and the gameplay 
 isn't very good either in my opinion. Half-life 2 is a great game, and people know it, but when 
 dark messiah comes along with the same engine, better graphics, and one of the best first person 
 rpg fighting i've seen, it gets a fair in rating. People have been complaining about the few number 
 of charaters to fight, when in half-life, there were about the same amount of fightable characters. 
 when comparing this with oblivion, DM has better graphics, fighting style, and doesnt over do the 
 character building. And yet it gets a much poorer rating. sure, the story isn't great, but games 
 are about gameplay, and if anyone is willing to sacrifice that for pretty graphics, and a good 
 story, then you should stop playing games and watch LOTR or something. Im angry not necessarily 
 because of this particular games rating, but that the gaming industry seems to be straying away 
 from gameplay. This is why i am mad about when people complain about Wii graphics, and completely 
 looking away from the amazing ways to play games. I am glad that there are quite a few that feel 
 the same about DM, but its amazing how many don't seem to care about the gameplay of GAMES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cra2y
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 26, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting more, but its definitely no where near as epic as Oblivion. It would have been 
 better if it was in a seamless game world, instead of level crawling. With better character creation, 
 your character is every class in this game. And the RPG elements are just not there, you do unlock 
 skills, kinda the same way youd get bigger/better weapons in a shooting game. Thats about as far 
 as the RPG aspect of the game goes. The sword fighting is decent tho. The multiplayer is not that 
 interesting, spend most of the time just running around the huge levels looking for someone to 
 kill. All in all, the only thing this game really has going for it is its graphics and so-so sword 
 fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smghottie
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Play the game. Gamespot really messed up this time. This game runs on an advanced version of the 
 HL2 engine, giving it great graphics, and of course the most advanced physics known to games. You 
 have a variety of ways to kill your adversary. All forms of fighting are creative, and fun. The 
 story is a little weak, but whatever, how many games have a good story line? does battlefield 2? 
 oblivion? world of warcraft? NO! none of them have 'in depth' story lines, and are no more in depth 
 than this game. Its fun to play, the sound is great, and you can keep playing over and over again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heptadragon
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I have a number of reasons for being incredibly excited about Dark Messiah:
  
  1) I've always been a fan of first-person shooters, ever since Doom and Wolfenstein 3D. I love 
 the tension and drama I associate with playing through something really tough/scary, defeating 
 the enemy with raw skill or through the creative use of my resources. I've also really gotten into 
 innovative FPSs like Deus Ex (I'm a sucker for a good RPG or anything resembling an RPG) . Not to 
 mention I'm a huge fantasy nut. Thus, a fantasy-based first-person shooter with RPG elements: it's 
 like manna (mana? as in Secret/Legend/Sword of...) from heaven!
  
  2) As I mentioned previously, I love RPGs. Final Fantasy, Chrono Trigger, Super Mario RPG; action 
 RPGs like Diablo and Dungeon Siege (third person) or Morrowind/Oblivion (first person) ; and even 
 games like Deus Ex that aren't RPGs in the traditional sense but have elements of an RPG. Knights 
 of the Old Republic? Golden. I love playing a game where I actually get to make decisions that 
 have a noticeable effect on the path I take and how NPCs react to me. Even if there's not too much 
 non-linear interest in DM, I'm already digging on the skill system and the fact that I have an 
 arsenal of weapons/fighting styles to choose from.
  
  3) I like graphics. I like physics. They aren't the most important component of a game (I still 
 play a lot of my old favorites on SNES and such) , but if they are there I will definitely appreciate 
 them. Doom 3? Very nice (although the formula was a bit disappointing after awhile) . Flatout? Most 
 excellent! I really like the Source engine; it delivers great graphics and physics while maintaining 
 a smooth framerate and experience that really gets me excited. I love interactive environments 
 as well, even if it's just certain objects. Kicking enemies into traps, spikes, fires and off of 
 ledges and cliffs is just amazing.
  
  There are so many different things that I love about DM that I can't describe them all in one review. 
 I'll just have to keep ranting and ranting about them until I get sick of the game, maybe in like 
 10 years or so. Even then I may still be playing it; I still play Diablo, and it's 12 years old. 
 Final Fantasy too. This is definitely a game that will inspire nostalgia in most anyone who plays 
 it, I think.
  
  A final note about the bugs and crashes some have experienced: I downloaded the game on Steam as 
 soon as it came out (I had preloaded it as much as was released before the game became available 
 for download) . When I first played it I experienced a number of glitches, NPC dialogue missing/playing 
 as static, etc. I did as one user on the M&amp; M forums suggested and verified Dark Messiah's cache; 
 after that I had very few problems. I also defragged my cache (in Steam) and the drive the game 
 was on and experienced a noticeable performance increase. So I'd say don't let the bugginess worry 
 you too much, as it can be fixed easily enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tactician
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  If you read the above you have seen all I can say. The dang game crashes left and right and is 
 about as polished is a pair of dirty underwear. Frankly I think this is disgusting considering 
 the history of might and magic. They need to get back to basics. They really should have followed 
 the style of the rest of the series. It would have been better as turn based with the engine it 
 has and it really could have used 3 months more polish. I regret that I cannot get my money back 
 and look to Neverwinter 2 to satisfy my gaming desires.
  
  I was so stoked about this game. What a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supernast
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah of Might and Magic or just Dark Messiah is just plain fun. The graphics are on-par 
 with some of the new next-gen games out and in my opinion the voice acting is pretty darn good. 
 Unlucky for me I can only play it on around medium level graphics so I can't get the full effect. 
 The world of Dark Messiah is indeed very interactive. SPOILER:
  
  
  At one point in the game, if you jump around to much in a breaking down shack on a cliff the whole 
 thing will come apart and you will go flying down to your death. A bunch of weapons, spells, and 
 items are available to you very early in the game and the skill point system works out very well 
 for me.
  Anyway, the sound is great, the graphics are great, it is very fluid, but what gets me most is 
 the combat system. Finally first-person action RPG players can have a game with the whole combat 
 deal. Many times I find myself gawking at the screen simply because there are just so many fun 
 ways to kill enemies (stab in stomach, chop of head, chop in half, chop off arm, chop off leg, 
 kick off cliff, blow up, burn, shrink, electrocute, etc.) As you progress through the game it gets 
 slightly harder and harder so you have to watch what you're doing. Personally I've had 3 minute 
 long battles with only 2 orcs and we exchange strikes and I block and try to find a weak point. 
 The physics in the game are also great, have fun with the cliffs guys! Anyway if you're reading 
 this review I hope you get my point, this game has absolutely fantastic game play and great everything 
 else.
  
  Now for the flaws.
  I'm getting tired of the linear path made out for me and I was actually hoping for some alternate 
 paths. There are a few secret places you can find with some awesome prizes but come on, I need 
 another path. Second, there are still too many areas with some bad textures when it should be 3D 
 models. Third, almost every enemy and character looks the same except for the main characters. 
 Fourth and the biggest is that the game is too short, I got through half the game in about 6 hours. 
 Fifth, I want to kill the Pao Kai in different ways too. I want to be able to drop a rock on it 
 or shoot it with arrows to death, not just well... maybe I shouldn't tell. Sixth is the multiplayer, 
 at least for me it doesn't seem too appetizing but maybe it just needs a few good servers, some 
 time and a patch or two. Seventh there is no kick or gore in multiplayer.
  
  Besides these very minor, minor flaws this game is a recommended buy by me. In about 10 minutes 
 any person will instantly be sucked in by the revolutionary gameplay and sound. Oh yeah I forgot, 
 you can actually see your FREAKING BODY. No matter what reviewers give this game, just buy it.
 
  
  hopefully they will make another dark messiah and make it a little bit longer and maybe fully destructible 
 environments and multiple paths so it WILL be the best game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kimbrcd
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is so amazing and immersive you won't be able to put it down.
  The environment comes alive because you can interact with the scenery by using it to your advantage 
 to either fight your enemies or finding exits or just exploring.
  
  Not just the storyline, and environment are amazing. The weapons, spells, abilities are just top 
 notch. This games definitely deserves a high scoring.
  
  This is not another oblivion game, its in its own class. I really hope that there are mods and 
 expansions to this game.
  
  Just wait until you get into the spider catecombs, they will scare the heck out of you. Just remember 
 they are easily beaten with fire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robertwelsh2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah takes place in the eyes of a young apprentice wizard, named Sareth. The story takes 
 place during a pre-dark age period, long ago thousands of years ago, when Mythology was all but 
 too real. Magic is not false, but true, and monsters are all but groseque and Elves, along with 
 Mages are intertwined with Men in the battle of Good Vs Evil, or so to speak. In the game, you 
 find that Sareth, is struggling between his own opinions, and the manipulation of other characters 
 in the game. His mentor or master, Phenrig, whose consoles him, trains him, and puts Sareth on 
 a path of ultimate destruction and woe, throughout all of Ashan. Phenrig, later on in the game, 
 urges Sareth to ride to a 'Free City', named Stonehelm, to possibly join an expedition to find 
 the Ancient Artifact and lost Skull of Shadows, to finally repel the darkness that engulfs the 
 countyside. When at Stonehelm, Sareth joins up with Expidition Leader, menelag who is an old and 
 experienced Wizard. But he also meets with his neice, Leanna, an ambitious young explorer, who's 
 one goal is to find the Skull of Shadows. But while in Stonhelm, thing go awry and tormoil is unleashed, 
 Sareth soon finds himself detatched from his master Phenrigs protection, and Sareth finds himself 
 in an adventure of his own...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay has to be one of the games finest points! The clashing of sword on sword, the yelling 
 and taunts of enemies, the fluid motions of a sword, kicks, sheild butts and many more, is uncomperable 
 to any standards.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Valve obviously worked hard on upgrading the source engine, to meet the need of Dark Messiah's 
 large world. Bloom effects and HDR lighting, reflections of water, light radiating from fires and 
 in a sense, make the game not only beautiful but in a sense majestic. Although some Half Life 2, 
 Day of Defeat Source, and Counter-strike source players, may be seeing the same picture.
  
  Sound:
  
  New character voices have been put into place, and ambient noise has been introduced, 
 FINALLY! The sounds of Orcs crying in pain, after hearing a sucessfully rewarding, CRUNCH!, of 
 a kick always gives me a good dosage of satisfaction.
  
  Value:
  
  If your looking forward to a game that costs 20$ and your thinking to yourself, WOW this is going 
 to be so cool I'm going to get Dark Messiah for a really cheap price! Then think again my poor 
 readers! Dark Messiah is not an episode to another game, it isn't a small game, and not a game 
 produced on a small budget, NO! The game is going to cost around 50$ But dont cry just yet! The 
 game will lower its price in about.... Four months perhaps, Hurrah for that!
  
  Reviewers Tilt:
  
  I have no compliments nor any critisim, so... I have no suggestions or comments 
 at this time.
  
  Have fun!
  
  Author -- Robertwelsh2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drenon
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 26, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Like a lot of other reviews, I think this is a good game. It looks and sounds great. The controls 
 are spot-on and the combat just feels right, unlike some other first person RPGs. The combat in 
 Dark Messiah feels better than the combat in Oblivion. NO, I'm not saying Dark Messiah is better 
 than Oblivion so don't start a lynch mob.
  
  I didn't like Oblivion for the reasons that a lot of people really loved it ... it's too open-ended 
 for my tastes. I didn't know what to do next and quickly grew tired of searching every square inch 
 of the game to figure out what to do next. That said, Dark Messiah is disappointing in that its 
 way too scripted for my tastes. There are no side quests in Dark Messiah and if you like to explore 
 your RPG game worlds, you'll probably be disappointed with Dark Messiah. There's really nothing 
 to explore and little opportunity to so.
  
  My only other gripe about Dark Messiah is how very short it seems to be. I played it for about 
 four hours last night and managed to complete five chapters. It's my understanding that there are 
 only nine chapters so I'm guessing this game won't last me more than a few nights. Truly disappointing. 
 I have no interest in the multi-player aspect of this game so I can't be sold on how much more 
 this game offers in addition to the single player campaign, but that's just me.
  
  This isn't your typical RPG. Dark Messiah is truly a first person action RPG hybrid of sorts that 
 is very fun for what it is. If you can keep and open-mind and refrain from comparing it to Oblivion, 
 I can't see how you wouldn't enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaburan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  There is no doubt that Arkane Studios has developed anything less than a perfect game. Dark Messiah 
 puts you in the role of a student adventurer guided by Master Phenrig. The 1st mission seems to 
 be small and simple, but as you play the story develops more and more and there are even more surprises.
 
  
  The graphical quality of this game cannot be compared and the 3d animation is lifelike, like being 
 in a movie.
  
  Although can be compared to Elder Scrolls: Oblivion, the graphics and fluid motion of all the characters 
 seem to give towns and cities even more life. As you see women hanging laundry from atop their 
 vintage balconies and children playing in the streets, and common people about their daily lives 
 in an old setting. The weapons, the sounds, the graphics, the playstyle is easy to learn, easy 
 to customize and above all, is about the most immersive game as you are always set in the 1st person. 
 I know what ill be hooked on for the next few months! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodka100
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  All of us first generation gamers remember Ultima Underworld. When the game first loads up you 
 play a tutorial mission that helps you get acquainted (sp?) with the game. The first thought I had 
 was Wow, this reminds me of Ultima Underworld. After the tutorial I quickly realised that this 
 game is much more linear than the original types of first person rpg's of the past. You have to 
 follow the pre set path and there really isnt any free roaming as there is in Oblivion. The game 
 is action packed and fun, but it could be better. After playing the game for awhile you get the 
 feel you are playing Tomb Raider because of all the climbing and jumping from ledges you have to 
 do. This game has a mix of everything. The graphics are good but can be choppy at times even on 
 high end systems. This game is worth buying, and will occupy your time while waiting for Neverwinter 
 Nights 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game. What I have played so far looks pretty linear and I am not fond of linear 
 games, but it is fun so far. I love the effects (especially the fire) . All of this is excellent, 
 but if you think you are going to have much fun playing it on the minimum requirements, think again. 
 I have an Athlon 64 rated at 2.01 GHz (the game site said 2.0 GHz for minimum but the box says 
 2.6 GHz) , with 2 GB RAM and an ATI x800 series graphics card with 256 MB of vid RAM. I can experience 
 about 5 minutes of gameplay before a cut scene plays or a new level loads. It usually takes about 
 2 minutes or so for a level to load on my system it seems. The play is decent but sometimes it 
 stalls and the audio skips like a broken record for about 10 to 30 seconds and then it lets loose 
 and I continue on. There was one time that it took about 10 minutes to load a map but that was 
 the only time so far. The story is decent and the game looks awesome!
  
  In short, if you have the minimum requirements, you may not enjoy this game. Do some upgrading 
 and then come back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbenfield
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo 5 weeks ago and loved it. The game itself blows the demo out of the water. The 
 storyline and gameplay are pretty good. The visuals and artwork are a sight to behold. AI is average -- could 
 be much better. I can beat most levels just by hopping into another room to heal up -- why don't 
 these guys chase me everywhere I go? The spells are most cool -- especially shrinking people, throwing 
 people, and making them slide on ice.
  
  The point system to gain skills is very easy to use &amp; understand as is the magic system. The 
 combat system is really good with power strikes/moves and the fights are pretty good. Obviously 
 needs a serious rig to play well -- especially if you want eye candy (and don't we all want eye-candy?) . 
 Levels take a long time to load. The graphics resolution of the cut scenes + movies are lower than 
 the game and I'd prefer to see them in higher res. Also, you'll want to play this on hard because 
 so far (through 1/2 the game, the normal play is too easy for a careful player) All in all -- a pleasure 
 to play . One downside is that the game is short -- 10 to 20 hours total. After spending forever 
 in Oblivion and still not finishing, it makes DM look puny as far as time to play.
  
  Oh yea -- I'm also still playing Oblivion. Very different games of course. If Oblivion had some of 
 the features + visual artwork of Dark Messiah it would probably be the best game of all time. 2008 
 anyone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minerva_Athene
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 25, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I love roleplaying games, and this may end up being on my top ten PC list. The class system is 
 very exciting, and the screenshots look great. Even on lowered settings, the scenery is beautiful 
 and engrossing. The voice acting so far has been above par, and I'm excited about continuing to 
 learn the intricacies of the combat system. The environmental interactivity adds a lot to the game, 
 making the whole experience more real. The combat is likewise more location specific, which although 
 bloodier, again adds to the experience of being in a real fight. The physics and use of objects 
 as weapons or shields is one of a kind in the roleplaying world; finally roleplaying borrows from 
 FEAR.
  
  However, despite all its wonderful qualities, to help direct potential buyers, I felt obliged to 
 focus my review on expanding upon the extensive system requirements of the game. Several reviews 
 mention that this game requires a good system, but that's an understatement. My computer meets 
 all the 'recommended requirements' (exceeds on graphics) and was purchased about six months ago. 
 However, even on 'recommended settings' in-game, I've experienced choppy frame rate, sound stutter, 
 and up to eight minutes load time to new chapters. What I've played of the game has been as awesome 
 as everyone has been reporting; but buyer beware, if you aren't on the hottest system to date, 
 this may not be the game for you. I'm sure that lowering the graphics to the less-than-recommended 
 settings will help, but I can't help being a bit disappointed.
  
  I think I will enjoy this game more in a year, when my computer upgrades will vastly exceed the 
 system requirements, and I can experience the complete beauty it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I just spent about 20 hours on this game and Have to tell you that this game rocks. If you like 
 oblivion, you will have to get this game. The gameplay is just a walk in the park, one of the best 
 and easyest rpg I have ever played. The Graphics are super good, like playing oblivion or pray 
 but with a better game. I would say Have a 6600 at the lowest for video card. I can hear everthing 
 perfect, so the sound is lovely. Now more into the game, the game has many weapons and armor for 
 you to find, and lots of different things to kill, the majic spells are sweet even knowing I didnt 
 use them much.
  I say any one that likes rpg's or loves oblivion get this game. Its a must. Just get the game its 
 worth 50$ all the way. Thanks for readying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eaon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the gameplay is like no other. People say, Ohh, its like Oblivion with no freeroam, 
 I see. Not by a long shot. In Dark Messiah you actually enjoy the combat, spells look cool and 
 feel cool. (Probably not to the things you're casting them on.) You have actual control over the 
 battle! If you swing at another player he can block according to his skill, not some stupid stat 
 number. You can kick players off high balconies and watch them fall to a grusome death. (They actually 
 scream, if you like that kind of thing.) But the game's not all combat, they mix it up, chase scenes, 
 romance, deception. Everything in a good movie is in this game. The storyline was such a mind twister 
 that sometimes I became so enraptured I forgot it was a game. Now the graphics are another thing, 
 best I have ever seen in a game. I can run it on maximum settings and this game is beautiful, with 
 HDR and anti-aliasing at the same time, this game blows oblivion away. The source engine is awesome 
 for its sweet physics compatibility and the use of objects and traps, reminds me of a rennasance 
 Half-life 2. The sound keeps you in the moment with very realistic swordplay sound and awesome 
 spell explosions. Everything has a sound. Fire burning, boxes breaking, even fire burning a broken 
 box. All in all, this game is almost worth the 50 bucks right off the shelf. (I personally think 
 no game is worth it.) But, this game came as close as I imagined. That's why I give it a 9.9 on 
 Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crew_SK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  This year I've only seen RPG's where more than 60% of the game play was oriented towards exploring 
 and lots and lots of side quests. ( i. e. Oblivion and Gothic 3) . The Gothic 3 combat system sucks 
 totally so I waited for this game like nothing else before, and this game took by surprise all 
 my expectations. The large amount of possibilities to kill your foes gives this game a great repeatability 
 value. The skill system is very short and concentrated, but with such a fast paced action you don't 
 really want to be bugged with a large skill tree. The graphics in these game are astonishing (probably 
 not as great as Gothic 3, but at least this game is totally optimized) . I experienced some hard 
 framerate drops in outside areas (actually in only one area but I can't tell you which one in order 
 to avoid spoilers) but this only occurred on high quality settings. So overall, the looks and feels 
 of this game are totally worth it. The game play will exceed any expectations. If you like to collect 
 plants and explore a huge world praying that maybe you'll find a group of foes to destroy then 
 this is not your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Good
  After beating this game i have found out first of all the game play is really amazing, and easy... 
 almost everything can be done with the click of a mouse. It has a good graphical system that gives 
 you the Elder Scrolls oblivion experience yet keeps it on a much more realistic level. Its fun 
 as all hell and the sword fighting is truly revolutionary it has never been done be for as so that 
 you can use 5 or so very easy attacks based on what arrow key your holding, and the weapons vary 
 the outcome of the attack. Also the attack can be held, so you can quietly go into another area 
 with bandits and what not and have the attack ready and armed to cut a unsuspecting victims head 
 clear off!!
  
  Also the swords cling meaning sword against sword penalty at least a 25% chance of the time and 
 based on where your attacking making it fun in actuality to realize wow im fighting this ugly ass 
 ogre based on my skill and experience rather then some lucky break. Also i noticed you can use 
 the kick method to break things along with stopping a sword penalty, and kick people off of cliffs. 
 And picking up dead peoples bodies for either arrow protection, to get rid of evidence, or to just 
 have a ball and dance is no hassle at all making for easy game interaction and less stress. You 
 also have the ability to pick up more things, things like creates and throw them great distances 
 to knock out opponents or throw them into the many traps the game designers were so happy to leave 
 lying around.
  
  Bad
  This game crashes every now and then and also has a few glitches here and there. You cant exactly 
 grow with your character, it almost comes off as an alternative... Umm what else to fuss about, 
 well the game isnt that long. And unlike oblivion theres nothing to do once youve beaten the 
 game. Its funny how both games cant get just the right amount of game play, its either to much 
 or to little. This game is over once youve beaten it, and that would be fine but it has no side 
 quests on the way there so it just comes off slightly unsatisfying. Also the story line can easily 
 be deciphered, its not that big of a secret.
  
  (Here i rated it a 7.9) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
