-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Darwinia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/darwinia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique, abstract art style.
 Simple, fun, and challenging gameplay.
 Excellent and varied soundtrack.
 Doesn't require a beefy system to run smoothly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Controls take some getting used to.
 The pace of the game slows way down as missions get more complex.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 25, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 55 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,257 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Valve Software
Developer: Introversion
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Dec 14, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Darwinia is a brilliant and addictive experience that's unlike anything you've played before.

  Introversion Software brings another uniquely retro-virtual experience to the PC with Darwinia. 
 If you follow obscure basement-budget PC games, you're probably familiar with Introversion's first 
 title, Uplink: Hacker Elite, a computer-hacking game released in 2001. Uplink developed a bit of 
 a cult following and provided the guys at Introversion with the funds to develop Darwinia, which 
 maintains the same low-fi, indie feel that makes these kinds of games so endearing. Darwinia is 
 a deceptively simple, poignant real-time strategy game wrapped in an abstract, minimalist veneer 
 that somehow manages to make perfect sense within the context of the game. It's a brilliant and 
 addictive experience that's unlike anything you've played before.  

          Welcome to Darwinia, a virtual theme park inhabited by sentient, digital beings that have 
 evolved over thousands of generations... Neat!     

  The first thing you'll notice about Darwinia is the odd art design. The game features a mix of 
 2D and 3D characters moving about a fully 3D environment. There are no textures in the game, and 
 everything has a sharp, geometric look to it. The vector graphics fit perfectly here though, since 
 the game takes place in a virtual theme park populated by digital inhabitants. Even though everything 
 is flat and undetailed, Introversion manages to pull off some pretty nice effects. For example, 
 when you blow up some of the larger enemies, they'll flake apart into hundreds of small, paper-thin 
 triangles that float away into nothingness. Another nice touch is the digital spirits that are 
 left behind when a creature dies. These spirits are represented by tiny, colored, semitransparent 
 squares that slowly float into the sky and fade away. It's oddly entrancing to watch a cloud of 
 spirits rise almost indiscernibly skyward after a battle. The game is full of these ethereal moments, 
 and it's easy to lose yourself in the landscape.  

  Once you get past the initial novelty of the art design, you'll find that the world of Darwinia 
 has a pretty interesting story behind it. The world of Darwinia is a virtual theme park, created 
 by computer engineer Dr. Sepulveda. The world is inhabited by virtual life-forms known as Darwinians. 
 These little green lemming-like creatures have lived peacefully for thousands of generations, but 
 now a deadly virus has infected the world of Darwinia. It's up to you to eliminate all signs of 
 infection and save the Darwinians from extinction. You'll learn everything there is to know about 
 Darwinia from Dr. Sepulveda himself; he'll occasionally transmit helpful messages to let you know 
 what you need to do to clear each level. He also provides a bit of context at the beginning of 
 each level by explaining the purpose of the mission and why it's essential to the survival of the 
 Darwinians. The story seems minimal, but it's presented clearly; and somehow, it does a great job 
 of making you feel a certain fondness for the tiny green blips that are the Darwinians.  

  The gameplay is solid here as well, and it offers a good mix of strategy, action, and even a bit 
 of puzzle-solving. You can't directly control the Darwinians, but you can create different programs 
 that you can use to fight enemies, collect spirits, or herd and transport Darwinians. By holding 
 the Alt key, you'll bring up the task manager, which is the simple menu system that you can use 
 to create and modify units and check the level objectives. To create a program, you simply draw 
 a gesture with the mouse. For example, to create a squad, which you need for fighting enemies, 
 you have to draw a triangle. The controls do take a bit of getting used to, but it's worth it to 
 leave the play screen free of the usual clutter of RTS games.  

  In the beginning, the task manager can only hold up to three programs at a time; but as you progress, 
 you can ask Dr. Sepulveda to improve it to hold more programs. So, rather than being limited by 
 resources, you're limited by space. If one of your programs is terminated, you can simply draw 
 a quick gesture to spawn a new one. There are only a handful of different programs in the game, 
 but each one plays an integral part in the game. Also, the lack of variety adds to the challenge, 
 because you have to figure out how to best use each program to complete your objectives. You can't 
 simply amass resources for an hour and then send a massive army out to crush everything in its 
 path. This type of strategy is a bit more methodical.  

  Make no mistake, though -- there's plenty of combat in Darwinia. You fight with squads, which are 
 small groups of fighters who fire lasers, toss grenades, and shoot rockets. Enemies include all 
 kinds of wispy little virii, spiders, huge centipedes, and floating egg-laying creatures. Eliminating 
 these things is pretty straightforward: You move your squad within range and hold the right mouse 
 button to start firing. There are no target locks in Darwinia -- you simply aim with the mouse. It 
 sounds easy, but some of the enemies can get pretty challenging, especially when they start swarming 
 by the hundreds, all the while laying eggs to keep their numbers up. Some of the level objectives 
 require you to herd Darwinians to specific points on the map to get them out of harm's way or to 
 operate various kinds of machinery. This is accomplished with a Lemmings-style checkpoint system, 
 in which you elect one Darwinian to be an officer. You can select a point on a map, and any Darwinian 
 that comes close to the officer will automatically move to that point.  

           Darwinia looks so interesting, you'll spend as much time gawking at it as you will playing 
 it.     

  The mix of combat and puzzle-solving is quick and challenging at first, but later in the game, 
 as the missions get more complex, the pace does slow down significantly. Some of the objectives 
 in later levels can take well over an hour to complete. Most of this stems from the fact that the 
 environments are quite large, and all the creatures move slowly. It's not too bad, though, and 
 if you're used to complex RTS games, you won't have a problem here.  

  The music and sound effects in Darwinia fit the theme perfectly. The soundtrack runs the gamut 
 from catchy 8-bit tunes to subdued piano arrangements, and each song cues at just the right time. 
 The only disappointment is that the music is only present during the intros. For the most part, 
 there's no music to be heard while you're playing the game. It's not all quiet, though; you'll 
 hear plenty of battle noises as lasers fly and grenades explode. You'll also hear tiny squeals 
 from dying creatures, which is about the only discernible emotive response you'll get from any 
 of the creatures in the game.  

  From the unique visual style to the simple but intelligent gameplay, Darwinia will have you hooked. 
 You can blow through the game in eight or 10 hours, but you'll want to linger a bit longer just 
 to see what else there is to do in this virtual world. If you think you've seen everything, give 
 Darwinia a try; at the very least, it's a nice change of pace.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting much. It was in the shovelware rack at a shovelware price in shovelware clothing. 
 I went to my purchase only through the knowledge that the indie-games websites were singing its 
 praises, and I was looking for something a little different for my computer that could barely run 
 Quake II without collapsing into a coughing, heaving fit. It was six dollars, and one of the best 
 six dollars I spent that summer. I wasn't expecting much, but heck, even with high expectations 
 and with a game like this, you can't go wrong.
  
  Darwinia is one of those games that has no definition in the dictionary. Its gameplay is like nothing 
 that has ever come before it, only showing very fleeting glimpses of old and new game design. From 
 within its compact shell  the game itself is only a measly, anorexic thirty megabytes, twenty-eight 
 of which is music  there are a few ideas taken from classics from the olden arcade days, melded 
 with the new, strategic layer of real time strategy that populates the PC platform. It's a new 
 experience.
  
  The game is proposed as a hack into a remote network that soon reveals itself as more than just 
 another server, and opens into a new land. The hacker's identity is never revealed, but playing 
 as them shows a world filled with odd, blocky visuals and pixelated creatures. The new world's 
 creator and caretaker, Dr. Sepulveda, has allowed things to go horribly wrong within his little 
 virtual playland, known as Darwinia, and now viruses and all things bad and sinister will plan 
 and plot against the poor Darwinians and their landscape. It's a Jurassic Park without the dinosaurs, 
 with Tron monsters replacing the Tyrannosaurus Rex.
  
  So now, playing as God in this digital, stylized landscape, the hacker plunges into a world of 
 strategy and technology. Every function, it seems, has a purpose; the game works much like a real 
 computer, abet more like Windows 95 than a new, Rick-Rolling multicore rig. A task manager controls 
 the units and their squads. Menus from ten years ago pop up with every mouse click. The good Doctor's 
 assistance spills onto the screen as a messenger program might, showing his befuddled expression 
 at all times. Even the landscape shows evidence of this, with buildings, structures, enemies and 
 friends, all designed as to show a world that is entirely new, fresh, and made by a computer geek 
 in his dark basement. It's Tron Remixed, a nerd's dream creation, and a reflection of how far games 
 have come since the days of Disney-created, four-color CGI.
  
  With all this flair and style comes a functional strategy element that feels more involving than 
 any other RTS before it. As the units take their places in the task manager (because each little 
 Darwinian is a process on the processor) , the game throws enemies at the player. Snake-like bugs, 
 covering the landscape in their writhing, blinking forms. Destroy their evil ways! The Darwinians 
 do not fight on their own; they must be selected as a group, and the player can aim and fire with 
 the mouse. It's less like StarCraft and more like Geometry Wars, because the units do not really 
 do much on their own (especially in combat) .
  
  To add to this the game slowly gives little gadgets and units for the player to try. Bases that 
 power the computer's resources. Satellites that shoot units across the map, once activated. More 
 advanced units; ones that fly, build, and attack. But never does this seem too fast for the hacker 
 and his newfound objectives; the game throws only what is necessary for, on the lowest level, an 
 enjoyment of Darwinia's basic gameplay. The game knows it's fun. It doesn't need to complicate 
 things until it gets boring again. 
  
  The game's irreplaceable charm highlights the depth of it. As the chaos becomes stronger and the 
 demands of the player are fully met, it's hard not to just sit back and laugh at the silly looking 
 things doing battle. It looks like a bowl of chicken-noodle soup with 3D glasses on. The colors 
 are muted and everything looks very flat, and yet bright and digital only in a way that a computer 
 world can convey. Meanwhile, computer bloops and bleeps echo out of the speakers that accompany 
 the monitor; it evokes a sensation of wonder and beauty that only chiptunes can revive, along with 
 a few select arranged tunes that complement the entire game. It's as iconic as the green Matrix 
 text, raining down the screen (which of course Darwinia includes a parody of, in one of its many 
 start-up sequences) .
  
  I can do all I want to build Darwinia up. It's a great piece of work, and I enjoyed it, as you 
 could possibly tell from my tone. But at the end of the day, it's just a great game made by some 
 great developers, and while it's hard to make it more than that, there's nothing wrong there. To 
 be perfectly blunt, it's just plain fun. The game is different, offbeat, sometimes funny, and gloriously 
 independent; it's an indie game to the very core, and a shining beacon for the next wave of video 
 game developers. If they're all as clever as Darwinia's masterminds, well, then we've got quite 
 the future to look forward to, don't we?
  
  Do not hesitate to pick up this game as soon as you can, especially with Multiwinia, the multiplayer 
 expansion, currently out. Darwinia is accessible, cheap, and compact. No gamer should go without. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I know this review is probably more than a little late, now that the sequel to this game is out. 
 But hey, I am getting points to advance my account level in GameSpot, so...
  
  Sometimes, a games developer doesn't need massive funding to make a good game. The right idea and 
 programming just suffice. Darwinia is one such game.
  
  The odd, seemingly vector-based graphics come as off-putting at first, though I realized later 
 that it was intended, as shown by some non-vector graphics such as some much prettier glittering 
 trees present in some of the earlier levels.
  
  The storyline isn't very new of course; it's like a cross between Tron's and Lemmings' story, though 
 it is quite well propped up by Dr. Sepuldeva's text messages and narration (too bad they aren't 
 voiced) . Even so, it's hard not to find the simple-looking but actually complex Darwinians quite 
 endearing. Their viral enemies are quite remarkable too, despite being made of simple jaggy polygons.
 
  
  Another attraction of the game is the obvious pop-culture references, such as some of the viral 
 enemies that resemble the Snake in Snake games, and the Airstrike vessels that are clearly a rip-off 
 of Space Invaders (though they are very impressive rip-offs) .
  
  The controls of the initial retail version is plain bad. However, the developers go the extra mile 
 in revamping the controls with subsequent patches, which goes to show their dedication to making 
 a good game.
  
  Overall, Darwinia is a very enchanting game, and have much greater worth than its low price tag 
 and small hard disk space requirement suggest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  Your main objective in this very different game, is to release the little green men from the evil 
 viruses that lurk over the network of levels.
  You begin by overlooking the plain of levels with lots of colours and light overhead, later you'll 
 find out what that is for. You then click on your started level and your taken down to the landscape 
 to begin ...
  Using a fairly basic interface of mouse and some keys, you move around and accomplish simple task 
 by moving you infantry into areas to kill the viruses, spiders, egg-layers etc, or build your engineers 
 to collect the little red lights that are left behind and reprogram the different facilities around 
 the land. You may even find a hidden blue cube that will give you something to add to your arsenal 
 of weapons. Meanwhile the man in the white suit keeps telling you want to do and that he's researching 
 different technologies to help fight the cause. Some levels with be just blasting, others will 
 be control of the little green men to activate the machines.
  But watch out the spiders, plants ,egg-layers like the little green men ... for lunch and your 
 population will soon disappear, so you must keep an eye on your whole level. Commission new soldiers, 
 make more engineers and gain control of the whole world. Plenty of levels to work through and I 
 found it to be quite alot of fun. You won't find anything here that challenges your graphics cards 
 but the fighting between the red and green men can tax your CPU sometimes. The music and sound 
 effects are adequant for a game of the genre. Long Live the Little Green Men..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinboy95
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Like i said in the name of the review the graphics look vary old fashioned but don't let that confuse 
 you. The light and explosions are better than in most games. The name also says it's a new gaming 
 style and that's true. Instead of clicking the enemy you want to fire at, you hold down the right 
 mouse button which unleashes a barrage of laser blasts and by clicking you throw a grenade, air 
 strike marker, or a rocket depending on what you selected. By now you're probably wondering why 
 I didn't give it a higher score right now and that's because of a few minor problems like the Darwinins 
 (intelligent AI that you have to protect) don't have any useful weapons to start with and a very 
 movable camera that can some times confuse you. if you're looking to buy this game i suggest that 
 you use some internet store because you aren't going to see it in most stores that sell it any 
 time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thiefGarrett
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  It could be argued that independent works, be they in the medium of games, music, or film, should 
 be judged on a different scale than their counterparts with corporate backing. I think this argument 
 is nonsense. Works of utter garbage and works of pure genius have in common the fact they don't 
 know how much money was spent on them. In that same vein don't expect this review to pull any punches 
 when criticizing Darwinia; it will be pitted against other games of its generation, regardless 
 of how much, or little, money went into it. That being said, as small as the development team was 
 for Darwinia there is nothing quite like it on the market today. Even though it does make a few 
 mistakes, its presentation, along with its mix of different gameplay styles, is anything but derivative.
 
  
  Everything about this game feels like a throwback to 80's computer and video game technology. The 
 graphics alone are enough to convey that feeling. All terrain is visibly constructed from triangles, 
 and the main characters, the Darwinians, are simple green stick figures. The enemies and buildings 
 also have a blocky look to them. Although this sounds low-tech when compared to today's multi-million 
 dollar titles, the developers have managed to make Darwinia (the location, not the game) feel like 
 it's inside a computer. That said, everything from the colouring of the landscape to the way the 
 Darwinians move make the game feel alive.
  
  The whole story revolves around a virtual world, Darwinia, which was initially a staging ground 
 for Dr. Sepulveda's experiments into digital life forms. As time passed, the Darwinians evolved 
 and advanced into a society. Unfortunately a virus has broken out that threatens to destroy everything 
 they have achieved. The player is tasked with cleaning up the virus and helping the Darwinians 
 take back their land.
  
  The premise of this game raises a lot of questions about the nature of life, evolution, and even 
 the role god plays in a society. Unfortunately the game merely touches on these points, such as 
 the mention that the Darwinians believe Dr. Sepulveda to be a deity. There is nothing in the course 
 of the game that even attempts to answer these questions, although the manual contains a nice article 
 on whether the Darwinians are alive or not. All told the story is just an excuse to immerse yourself 
 in the game, which is fine. Why the story raises questions it doesn't even attempt to answer is 
 anyone's guess, and quite frustrating when you realise there's no payoff.
  
  Luckily the gameplay is much more solid than the story that drives it. Darwinia plays as a cross 
 between a real-time strategy game and a classic arcade shooter, and has a minimal amount of unit 
 types. In keeping with the computer theme there is a task bar with which you create new units. 
 Any current units take up a slot in the task bar so the number of active units is limited. However, 
 all units are free to create, so even if you lose a unit in combat you can create a new one at 
 a spawn point. You can even terminate programs (units) to free up room. The only exception to this 
 rule is Darwinians must be spawned from incubators, which need to be supplied with souls from fallen 
 units. Also, Darwinians can't be controlled directly. Instead an officer, who can issue orders 
 to the Darwinians, must be created in the task bar.
  
  Every stage in this game consists of clearing out viruses from an area, and then moving Darwinians 
 to an objective, be it a safe house or a building which they need to control. To keep this from 
 becoming too repetitive, the developers have made each level important to the story somehow. For 
 example, one level requires you to mine a certain amount of material, then in a following level 
 that material is used to construct something useful. Confusingly though there is one level that 
 has no influence on the rest of the plot, and it doesn't even confer an upgrade like some other 
 maps do.
  
  While the simplicity of the game is attractive it leads to too much micromanagement. Often times 
 the Darwinians will be under attack, but you won't know it unless you are viewing that part of 
 the map or hear them shout (if it can be called that) . Annoyingly this shout is also the same sound 
 the Darwinians make when they're celebrating, so you can imagine how annoying those false alarms 
 get. Also, there is no way to zoom to a unit, so often times you find yourself scrolling back and 
 forth across the map. Even the interface has issues, as Alt-Tab is supposed to be a valid command 
 in game, but instead pressing those keys took me out of full screen mode.
  
  Even with the problems it has Darwinia is a fun, immersive game. The gameplay may have its limitations 
 and the campaign is fairly short (around 10 hours) , but this game presents a world that feels alive 
 and enemies that actually feel viral. With all the powerful hardware flooding the market these 
 days it's nice to see a game that isn't based on photo quality graphics and fully destructible 
 environments. Darwinia is simple, engaging, and probably unlike anything you've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanakha
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  One word: Addicting. That pretty much explains the game. Many levels of fun gameplay that is sure 
 to keep you occupied for a long time. I at first thought it wouldn't be that great, but when I 
 started playing nobody could pry me from the computer! The object is to safely guide these creatures, 
 called Darwinians, through their environment, that has been infested by nasty computer viruses. 
 Darwinians are 'born' when you collect the 'souls' from defeated viruses and convert them into 
 Darwinians in an incubator. Certain parts of the game require a specific number of Darwinians to 
 operate machinery to get across landscape to other parts of the environment where they can battle 
 the virus and free their land from it's rule. It's definitely not a boring game. BUT, at some points 
 it can be difficult to get past a level. I myself am stuck on a level. But I'm sure I can get past 
 it using the right strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _MaFiOuS_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Sincerely i played darwinia some time ago, i got it at the release but i think now i should devote 
 some time to give it a great review. First off, the graphics aren't that pretty to the eyes even 
 though they give that warm, fuzzy feeling of trying new stuff, they look like the old arcade games, 
 except now its 3D. it suits the gameplay perfectly since were going into an virtual world. Now 
 that i've talked about world, i must go on and say that the story in darwinia is very well executed 
 and catchy, after all, who wont get touched by the poor little green dudes getting owned by the 
 red viri, the enemies are very variated, they range from a lot of triangles to giant-headed snakes (or 
 whatever those guys are) Gameplay is just plain awesomeness, the gesture interface rocks its that 
 "new stuff" feeling again, but it will get kinda complicated once you get the airstrike (its a kinda 
 hard gesture to put in a tight situation) , so you better stick with the button interface, and in 
 no time you will see the space invaders blowing the virii to smithereens. Sound is kinda retro, 
 like the ones from arcade machines, sometimes theyre weird, and sometimes they fit the theme perfectly. 
 sound is one thing in darwinia that i must say "could have been better" So, all in all, darwinia 
 is a must if you like that old catchy and fast paced gameplay but with entirely new graphics.
 
  ~Maf
  
  Like its been said "darwinia will remind you why you love gaming so much" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Ahh, Steam. Most of us know it as a fantastic program that brings Valve games and games from other 
 publishers together in perfect harmony. Often imitated, but never duplicated.
  
  But until 2006, Steam was a dark program indeed. Crashes, bugs, rumors of being spyware... Ah well, 
 not everything is perfect from the get-go. Steam was also made to show off games from independent 
 developers, which were sold for about $20 or less. The first game to be released this way was Rag 
 Doll Kung Fu, a complex fighting game developed by former Lionhead Studios lackey Mark Healey.
 
  
  The other was a strategy action hybrid game called Darwinia. This was developer Introversion Software's 
 second game effort (their first being Uplink, a game about a hacker's lifestyle) , and like their 
 first game, it's a fantastic game that blends genres together into a fun and enjoyable experience.
 
  
  Like Uplink, The story about Darwinia is related to computers in some way: Darwinia itself is a 
 massive network system that has been running on 1980's computers for about a decade. Dr. Sepulveda 
 was working on Darwinia all this time until he found out that a virus had infected the system. 
 Lucky enough, you pop in at just the right time to remove the virus and save Darwinia. Darwinia 
 itself revolves around one-dimensional green characters called Darwinians . They're small, sentient 
 lifeforms that roam around the various lands of Darwinia.
  
  Darwinia blends the real time strategy genre with a small pinch of action for extra flavor. The 
 objective of each level is to eliminate the viral threat and find/activate other vital items to 
 complete the level. When you begin the game for the first time, you're given a limited amount of 
 help: a squad (or squaddies as the game's fans affectionately call them) , which is primarily for 
 assault purposes; and an engineer, which is used for gathering souls, researching items to improve 
 characters and reprogramming things like trunk ports and satellite dishes. Also as you progress, 
 you can also make a Darwinian an Officer to guide other Darwinians, and even receive an Armour 
 tank for defense. These helpers are needed to complete the level's objectives, and you activate 
 these helpers by running them in the task manager like a program. You're given a maximum of three 
 programs to run when you begin the game, but you can upgrade this to 5 as the game progresses.
 
  
  Speaking of upgrades, you can upgrade the majority of every aspect of the characters. From upgrading 
 your squad (more members) to your engineer (increasing carrying capacity) to the weapons Squaddies 
 and Darwinians can hold. Squaddies can receive three explosive weapons: a grenade, a rocket, and 
 an airstrike marker (and the airstrikes themselves, amusingly, look like characters from Space 
 Invaders) . It's all up to the player to decide how they wish to upgrade each aspect, but all of 
 them are important in some way.
  
  Darwinia makes controlling units simple: You choose a program in the task manager, left-click to 
 move them around, right click to fire weapons (if you're moving a squad) . Despite the task manager 
 being relatively easy to use, it can cause problems where programs in the task manager are erroneously 
 told to go somewhere when pressing TAB. For instance, I want to click on task 3, which contains 
 an engineer, to make him go to a satellite dish. I accidentally click on terrain and I had task 
 2, a bunch of squaddies on another island; selected. So instead of sending my engineer to where 
 I wanted it to go, the squaddies start bumping around the island they're on because I told them 
 to go somewhere they cannot normally reach. This, however, can be partially averted by using the 
 number keys to choose tasks, with this; it's also faster to do as opposed to quickly holding Tab 
 and clicking on the task, which can lead to mistakes like these.
  
  When a character of any sort is killed, they leave a diamond-shaped item called a soul. Eventually 
 the souls will go up into the sky, leading to them being placed in a suppository, which can be 
 recycled into new characters in a later level. Souls are one of the major aspects of an engineer 
 as they can acquire them, take them to an incubator, and spawn more Darwinians. Of course, the 
 more Darwinians you have, the better your chances at completing the level. There's a little quirk 
 you can see with Darwinians and souls: If they grab one before it floats away, they can cradle 
 it, put it in a box and give it a more proper send-off. It's a cute little touch.
  
  All ten levels take place on very complex terrain that resembles vector graphics from the late 
 1980s and early 1990s. These levels' geometries are very abstract, leading to problems where characters 
 can get stuck on the level while climbing up areas, or on the edges of islands near water. Speaking 
 of other strange abnormalities, I've seen occurrences where officers keep walking around the edges 
 of islands because they apparently were misled on where to go, where engineers would be gathering 
 souls, see something to reprogram and go to that instead of doing what they're told (and sometimes 
 these are in territories where viruses are, so they tend to die quickly) , even times where Darwinians 
 would emit cries of fear, but to find that there's nothing dangerous around them. These are very 
 minor quirks, and don't destroy the game immensely, But with engineers, you can't specifically 
 tell them what to do and where to go, which can lead to having you make multiple engineers to do 
 the same task, and even then you could still have the same problem.
  
  When this game came out in 2005, it wasn't really going to push next generation graphics or anything 
 like that. But Darwinia is not a game that requires a powerful computer either. The recommended 
 specifications (1.6GHZ processor, 256 MB of RAM, and a GeForce 4 or higher) are enough for even 
 low-end PCs to run everything at maximum settings. And trust me, this game really goes for the 
 nostalgia 80s vector graphics look, complete with pixelated characters and bloom-like effects, 
 so having everything on is a must. For a game of this style, it's perfect enough and you wouldn't 
 want to see anything that's going for realism in Darwinia.
  
  Darwinia uses a strange myriad of sounds to represent characters. Sounds from a cat represent the 
 voice of Darwinians, while sounds from a freight train are used when you kill snake-like enemies. 
 You can even hear computer noises from Squaddies. It's a strange eclectic group of sounds, and 
 it works for the most part. However, problems arose where certain sounds would be very loud, leading 
 to popping noises on my computer. Darwinia also features music from Timothy Trash80 Lamb, which 
 is used during certain parts of the game. This music varies from upbeat techno music to somber 
 piano music, and every time it's used, it fits perfectly.
  
  Oh yeah, I need to mention this. When you boot up the game every time, you'll see an interesting 
 introduction screen that appears before the game begins. Most of them are references to computer 
 culture in the 1980s, such as a mock bootup screen from the ZX Spectrum, to a fake demo screen 
 from old cracked software, to an homage to Cannon Fodder with a message saying This game is not 
 in any way endorsed by Sensible Software .
  
  Each of the levels in Darwinia can take up to an hour and a half, which depends on your efficiency, 
 and how you approach each level. Every level can be beaten by using rush tactics, a commonplace 
 strategy in many real-time strategy games; but it's not always that easy, as some levels can get 
 relatively heavy on causalities, leaving souls everywhere and possibly bogging the game down a 
 small tad. This is especially true if there are items in the levels where the Darwinians can respawn. 
 This game will require your time and dedication to beat each and every level, but if you have to 
 stop partway, you can end the game and resume where you left off at any time, which is a nice convenience. 
 And you don't even have to use save systems or anything like that.
  
  Darwinia is one of those awesome cult underground games. It's a game that's very good, and I wouldn't 
 have heard of it thanks to Valve and Steam for giving it loads of publicity when it came out. If 
 you're not on the online purchasing bandwagon, the game is available in the United States in boxed 
 form. And since Darwinia takes up little space (about 30MB, about 140MB when you factor in the 
 110MB 15 second video file publisher Cinemaware Marquee tacked in that you never see) , isn't a 
 powerhouse technology-wise, and it's relatively easy to play, you can't go wrong with this. One 
 thing to note is that Darwinia is singleplayer only; there is no multiplayer element as of this 
 writing, yet a Multiwinia is supposedly in the works.
  
  (Note: Copies published by Cinemaware Marquee boxed the original v1.0 of Darwinia. The differences 
 between that version and later versions, including the version reviewed here; is that originally 
 you had to draw shapes to create tasks. This was later removed in a patch. I recommend that you 
 patch the game before playing it.)
  
  Pros: Great art style, creative hybrid of strategy and action, exceptional music, nice references 
 to computers and other pop culture references.
  Cons: The user interface for the task manager is a little clunky, units such as squaddies and engineers 
 can't really think for themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VivaNOLA
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the most gratifying games I've ever played. The primitive polygonal style 
 is evocative of Tron and somehow it doesn't feel cheap, just beautiful. The only problem I had 
 with it is that just when I decided that I wanted to become a Darwinia ninja, to dedicate untold 
 hours of my life to mastering techniques that I had just started to explore, it was over. I was 
 so ready for more. These guys need to keep cranking out new levels like the Times cranks out crossword 
 puzzles - I NEED MORE! Yes, there is a level editor, so some community content is out there, but 
 I have found it to be lacking - none of it really scratches the itch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildbilly7
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  When I initially finished the demo for this I loved the game... so much so that I immediately bought 
 it. The quasi-retro feel to the music and graphics makes the world very immersive and unique. It 
 is a cool twist on the RTS formula, in that you control a small squad of troops and only control 
 your 'peons' indirectly. After getting further into the game however its shortcomings become apparent. 
 As many have stated, the path finding is terrible. It could be argued that it is intentionally 
 so, but you'd think at least your troops would be able to not get stuck on mountains/water when 
 directing them to reasonably close targets. This wasn't an issue initially, but as the battles 
 get bigger and more complex it really becomes annoying. It is also impossible to select larger 
 groups of varied units, so unless you're handy with the hotkey's movements of more than 5 units 
 is cumbersome. Finally, the weapons are difficult to target at times, and eliminating larger groups 
 of enemies or some of the tougher ones gets to be a tedious and repetitive 'trial and error' exercise 
 while aiming grenades and rockets.
  For the money it's not a bad game, but when compared to the likes of Warcraft it's hard not to 
 be bothered by the lack of polish. Sure, Blizzard is a large studio who obsesses for years on each 
 title they release, but even the original Warcraft had decent pathfinding and MUCH less bugs. Once 
 you get past the initial WOW factor at the cool graphics, the shortcomings eclipse any of the positive 
 aspects of the game. Honestly I would have happily paid twice the amount for a more polished version 
 of the game, as the concept and style is excellent. It's just too bad the final product is marred 
 by significant gameplay issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epressman617
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 3:59 am PT
Review:  If you haven't heard of this sleeper hit, get yourself a copy. It's downloadable on steam (www. steampowered. com) 
 with a free demo available, so there's no excuse for not trying it.
  
  Darwinia is a virtual world populated by sentient programs, which you have to save from an invading 
 virus. The whole world looks like Tron, which makes sense, as it takes place inside a computer. 
 Everything has a very retro feel to it, but not at all in a bad way. Normally, pixelization or 
 obvious geometry would be a downside, but this game justifies it and revels in it, which gives 
 it a wonderfully distinctive feel.
  
  The gameplay is RTS based, but doesn't play like a lot of other RTS games. There are no compilcated 
 research trees, building types required to build more buildings and units, etc. Instead, there 
 are simple research fields to choose from, a few structures around the map that can be captured 
 for spawn points and transportation, and only one resource - souls. The Darwinians, as intelligent 
 creatures, have souls. Killing viruses releases souls which can then be gathered by non-combatant 
 engineers and returned to buildings which will spawn darwinians. They, in turn, are needed to complete 
 various objectives, usually involving restoring various systems. The Darwinians, however, cannot 
 fight at all at first, and even when upgraded, are relatively weak. Fortunately, Squads have some 
 firepower available. Squads are the basic fighting unit you will use, and are armed with lasers 
 and either grenades, rockets, or airstrike beacons, once these become available. Later, armoured 
 transports become available, and they can convert into turrets, which must be manned by darwinians 
 (and can be captured by the enemy. argh.) Only two fighting units in a RTS game is unusual, but 
 not at all a problem. The different strategies required for the different squad weapons, and the 
 handling of turrets, which auto-fire at any enemy in range and will mow down any friendlies in 
 the way (stupid little darwinians) , combined with the varied challenges and terrain, give plenty 
 of variety. Speaking of terrain, it plays a much more substantial role than many games. Often, 
 the illusion of height is given just for visual interest. Here, if you take a hill you can almost 
 double your grenade range; if you're firing rockets over uneven ground, they make hit too close 
 and hurt you, etc. Essentially, take the high ground. The only issue I had with gameplay (and it's 
 minor) was that the AI was not very good. Squads give only minimal firepower when not directly 
 controlled, engineers completely ignore enemies and tend to put themselves in harm's way, and these 
 I don't mind, b/c it makes you fight tactically. However, the armor acted up a bit. Sometimes it 
 would loop 330 degrees around one way instead of 30 the other when going somewhere, and sometimes 
 it would ignore directions. Still, very minor complaint
  
  The graphics are siple but very effective. The retro look is well thought out and completely appropriate 
 for the game. Enemies wil shatter into many 2D shards when killed and everything is made of simple, 
 obvious polygons, and it complements the setting perfectly. The sound was pretty well done, if 
 a little limited. There are combat effects and basic screams when things die, but it does get a 
 bit repetitive. I would have liked speech instead of subtitles from the Darwinians' creator, Dr. 
 Sepulveda, as well as a bit more variety in the effects, but it was still well done.
  
  Darwinia is an excellent value for the money. I think it was $19.95, and I got lots of playing 
 time out of it trying different strategies. There is also a map editor, although I haven't gotten 
 to it yet. Plenty of bang for your buck...
  
  Tilt is where this game shines, though. Introversion Software is a tiny company (4 people) and 
 this is one of the finest game sI've played this year. It is original, addictive (you've been warned. 
 seriously.) and simply a lot of fun. I doubt I'll see anything else like it, and it's a damn shame. 
 Long story short, whether you like it for the strategy, the combat, the novelty, or just have had 
 your computer infected before and like the idea of targeting viruses with airstrikes, PLAY THIS 
 GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good : Never ever seen a Gamplay that is such unique that makes u addictive to it . Simple 
 Gameplay also a hard one too , u get to plan what u have to do because the Virus inffection is 
 everywere . Different Looks/Graphics that make the game collorfull althought that there is only 
 around 5 --- 7 collors in the intire game , yet the looks of the game make u comfortable with these 
 features . The Sound is just great &amp; perfect , u can hear the Darwinians affraid &amp; screamming 
 when a Virus attack them , u can hear their voices althought that they aren't understandable yet 
 they gives u the right feeling about it . The Soundtrack on the otherhand is even better . + Each 
 time u play the game , a new intro is seen , no intro is the same !!!  
 Bad : It doesnt have many bad things , other than that it's addictivness can sometimes cause to 
 take a break from it !!! Were u'll feel enough &amp; it is time to stop but yet u cant , cause 
 ur addicted to it , so it's kinda hard to stop playing it , but also u'll get this urge that u 
 need to stop . I know it is complicated right I think that those who played it understand me well 
 .  
 Notes On The Game  
 - Some Missions aren't hard but rather complex in there looking , since there is many Islands to 
 conquer &amp; each one have one entrace to it so it takes time  
 2 - U'll get addictive to it that u might feel in quiting , yet u know u dont want to quit .  
 - It's requirements aren't many , as long as u have a PC with a DX9.0c Graphic Card , then u can 
 play the game  
 - It is a Mixture of 2D &amp; 3D technology .  
 - It's the game of it's kind so give it a try  
 At the end I would say thast this game is totally worth playing &amp; getting it , because missing 
 out this game , will make u miss a great game in the Strategy Games Universe , &amp; it would be 
 ashame that a Strategy Gamer doesn't get it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wokisan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 5, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I saw a review for Darwinia a few months ago but was very skeptical. I noticed it in Best Buy the 
 other day for $9.99 and figured 'what the heck'..... why not try it out. I am SO glad I did. This 
 game is innovative and an instant classic.
  
  The closest 'experience' to this game I can think of is Geometry Wars. It's one of those games 
 you don't think you will like but once you actually play it, you can not stop. It's premise is 
 simple yet addictive. Your job is to rid Darwinia (a virtual world) of a nasty virus and save it's 
 inhabitants named appropriately.... the Darwinians. You are able to 'call up' various programs (you 
 can even do so by making specific gestures with your mouse) and then must strategize how to rid 
 the virus from a particular area. The virtual world's creator works along with you upgrading your 
 programs abilities as you progress through the game.
  
  It's is so hard to describe but for what you can pick this title up for ($10 in my case) it is 
 well worth it for a different, innovative, and enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melted_UFO
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  I am not even kidding. This seriously is one of the most fun games I've played this year. It is 
 very different than anything I've ever played. You not just attacking enemies like other real time 
 strategy games. You are actually commanding your troops and controlling their shots. You also can't 
 just gather a ton of resources and build up a huge army and dominate. There are no resources. Tropps 
 are free, but you cant have a ton of troops out at once. It sounds like a bad thing but it makes 
 the game much more interesting when you trying to save the Darwinians and fend off viruses all 
 at once. I gave the gameplay a 10 for the reasons above. I gave the Graphics a 9 because they are 
 not hyper-realistic but they are stylized at fit great into the game. The sound got a 7because 
 there isn't much of it.
  The value got a 10 because at $20 it can't be beat.
  The tilt got a 10 because I haven't seen anything like it before.
  I totallly recommend this 
 interesting game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Highly addictive. The 3D engine looks great. The story is addicting. This is what I call a "3D 
 Sidescroller." If you haven't already, download Steam (http://www. steampowered. com/) and try out 
 the demo. I wouldn't say buy the full game because it sort of gets repetitive. This runs very smoothly 
 on my machine, at around 50 frames per second on a GeForce FX 5200. Things that I would change 
 are the movement and stuff. There are many ways of killing multiple types of enemies. This also 
 has many puzzle elements, like solving things. Download steam and get the demo. It will suck you 
 in the moment you fire it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 29, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Darwinina is a game that is very innovative and breathes a breath of fresh air into the RTS genre. 
 First off the gfx are intentionally 80's style retro. Thus they are bright and very polygonal with 
 nice pixelated images. This expresses the brunt of the graphics in Darwinia.. The Sound/Music also 
 reflects this "retro" style. The gameplay is nothing more but innovative.. With a taks managager 
 pull up menu and and option to use "gestures" to create units. A difficulty scale from 1-10, which 
 makes for vaiable difficulty for every player. This game stands out from the rest of the RTS genre 
 in the sense that it there is no "base" or "resources" to collect, but control stations to "activate". 
 The replay value of the game is lackin in that if played at difficulty of 10.. you will find no 
 more gameplay unless you download mods. Some of which are quite fun. There is not a multiplayer 
 aspect.. which could be quite interesting if it would have been implemented. This thus hurts the 
 longevity of the game. Yet, the retro style of the game does make it last through the years in 
 terms of graphical presentation and music/sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajwall4
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 26, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Darwinia should be noticed by the real-time strategy genre and copied for all its worth. Generally, 
 the genre has moved into greater and greater building complexity and flashier graphics, yet never 
 improved the depth or storytelling of a games. Darwinia, is a tiny install, and a budget price, 
 but it provided hours of enraptured entertainment. 
  
  You begin the game with the an introduction to a digital world created by a programmer to study 
 artificial intelligence. He created the Darwinians, simple, green men reminiscent of 1980's era 
 video games. He also created in them free will. Then we learn that their world has been invaded 
 by viruses, and it becomes your task to restore Darwinia to its former glory by eradicating the 
 virus and restoring the entire ecosystem.
  
  You start out the game with only one or two types of units, which are called "programs." In the 
 beginning you can only run three programs at once on your task manager. This is an interesting 
 take on an RTS because you don't use resources, except for your ability to manage a limited number 
 of programs at once. 
  
  One particularly entertaining unit is the squad, which you can ask the programmer to work on upgrading 
 as the game progresses, which simply takes time. The squad is a line of 3 to 6 soldiers that you 
 direct around the field with clicks of the mouse. You can fire their guns in unison at a virus 
 by right clicking on an area of the map and they will immediately start spraying that area if it 
 is within range. While firing you can click the other button, which will lob in a grenade, fire 
 rockets, or call in an "air-strike" depending upon what you are doing. The reason why this is so 
 entertaining, is that in RTS you never get that visceral arcade game feeling from just watching 
 the little units fight, in Darwinia you actually make them shoot, and you lob every grenade with 
 every click. I loved hurling rockets into nests of virii and listening to them scream and explode 
 into little digital chunks.
  
  There are also engineers, who take over buildings, such as incubators. There are armored units 
 that carry darwinians whom you can arm with lasers and grenades. The armored units transform into 
 gun emplacements at the destination and are manned by Darwinians, and can be taken over by evil 
 red Darwinians who are infected with the virus. That are other units as well.
  
  The imagination that went into the game is impressive, because as you take back the "land" from 
 the evil red virus, you activate the ecosystem. There is an entire cycle of life in Darwinia. For 
 instance, when you kill virii, which are made of out corrupted Darwinian souls, you use engineers, 
 to deposit them into an incubator, and watch as the building processes the red souls, into new 
 Darwinians that can then be used to operate systems, buildings, or fight! You can also recycle 
 dead good green Darwinians souls in the same way. If you don't gather the souls in time, they sort 
 of float up into the ether.
  
  Later, you learn that everything floating into the ether gets recycled as well, because the souls 
 precipitate back down to the digital ground and settle on collectors that you need to get up and 
 running again. The programmer comments to you about the history of his world at key times as the 
 story unfolds. I won't spoil the whole thing for you, but the point is, more thought went into 
 the world of Darwinia than went into 90 percent of the games on the market.
  
  On a design note, I was very pleased to find that this game runs every screen resolution you can 
 think of, including widescreen resolutions, and the animation, and camera movement are very, very 
 smooth. I really appreciated an innovative take on camera movement, which is the most intuitive 
 I have ever seen in a game.
  
  I hope more people play this game, because it really captures what gaming is all about... fun.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KipKiparis
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  I cannot talk about this game as I talk about any other. To simply divide it into graphics, sound, 
 gameplay, design. It's just this unique experience for the player. It holds within it the meaning 
 of playing games in the first place, it has the Gameplay. And in the same time, it's not played 
 like a game. You have to feel it. Just like Shadow of the Colossus or Okami. It's retro, such a sweet 
 retro feeling, such an immersive emotion you can only feel if you've been in the game industry 
 from Pong and Packman to Nintendo Wii. This game is the history of video games itself. It's past, 
 it's present and it's future. You will ask yourself on the meaning of existence as you play Darwinia. You 
 will begin to question yourself. You won't only enter the matrix - you will break it. You will be 
 the shock of the system. You feel so real, so full of emotions in its quite, cold, digital rhytm 
 of life...
  This game is for real players. Players who think and feel., who know why are they playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shub-Niggurath
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  Darwinia is an action packed real time strategy game with a simple, straight-forward concept and 
 a painfully simple interface. But dont let any of that fool you. This game is bursting at the 
 seams with action, entertainment, challenge, and strategy. This game is absolutely brilliant.
 
  
  You play the role of a person who has somehow logged into Darwinia, an experiment in artificial 
 intelligence. These little creatures called Darwinians are the creation of one computer geek in 
 an experiment in artificial intelligence over a decade old. These little creatures are supposed 
 to be self-reliant, intelligent, artificial beings capable of learning and reproduction. They inhabit 
 their own computer-generated world and, by making use of the means they are provided, have grown 
 and prospered into a fully functioning society. However, their land has been ravaged by a virus 
 which the Darwinians themselves managed to download from their Creators email. You showed up just 
 in time. Instead of resetting the whole thing the creator has now decided that the two of you can 
 fight to save his little, virtual world.
  
  This plot is actually fairly nice and they use it to help you develop an attachment to these little, 
 simplistic creatures. It works.
  
  The interface is simple. You hold a single button which brings up a menu screen in real time (the 
 game is still progressing as you do this) and pick to create various things from here which are 
 necessary to defeat this scourge of virus. Pressing up (or clicking towards the top of the menu 
 screen) displays a list of these things and their research. This is a status bar showing progress. 
 You can prioritize these items and let your ally know which programs he should develop further 
 and faster. Pressing (or clicking) down brings up your current objectives...
  
  Easy, yes? No. The interface is simple but the action is fast paced and demanding.
  
  Along 
 the way you learn how the Darwinians perpetuate their line through the use of soul reviving Incubators 
 and even a full re-birthing system. This is great but the virus infected the Darwinians and changed 
 them to suit itself. It, too, can perpetuate itself by using these same resources to develop more 
 infected evil Darwinians. You must take back Darwinia location by location form the virus which 
 plagues it. This starts off fairly simple since the virus manifests itself in the early stages 
 as monsters of sorts who cannot use the equipment. However, eventually you meet the infected 
 Darwinians and the task gets much harder as they use the machines to replenish their numbers. Each 
 location begins with the virus running everything and with control of one station... enough to form 
 a squad or two and start kicking arse. Welcome to the hard part.
  
  This games graphics are a sort of throw-back to 80's classics with the Darwinians being simplistic, 
 8-bit type, 2 dimensional stick figures who move but have no animation. Most viral monsters consist 
 of simple polygons, too. The world itself may have very elaborate terrain but the whole thing is 
 covered with a grid for that retro feel. This simplistic style is a nice touch since its creator 
 states that the project is over a decade old. 
  
  The sound is a nice touch. Explosions are good and clear and zooming in or out from the battlefield 
 produces a nice change in volume without you ever truly losing the ability to hear your own units 
 anywhere. When zoomed out you can hear any laser or cannon shot on the battlefield which helps 
 you to monitor any left over villains who may have hidden somewhere.
  
  The opponent AI is fairly simple at times and never seems to employ much strategy. It defends itself 
 adequately, especially when you make use of the games transportation means and the virus begins 
 to group near it... thus complicating your efforts to attack. The only things that employ any real 
 strategy are the red Darwinians... and even that seems to be limited to the mentality Strike as 
 a group. This may sound fairly simple and easy to conquer but be warned: it is not. The AI puts 
 up an amazing fight and makes sure you earn every inch you take. At times you get pinned up against 
 almost impossible odds, but some good, strategic thinking and decisive action ensure that it may 
 look impossible but it never really is. Even if you get yourself stuck you have a reset location 
 option in the games main menu. I only used this once and it is a great help. RTS fans will certainly 
 find much in this game to enjoy while the more action oriented among you will get a major kick 
 out of it as well.
  
  The game isnt too long by current game standards but it isnt what Id call short either. What 
 I feel compensates for this short-coming is the amount of sheer gaming goodness theyve managed 
 to just CRAM into the length of game they give you. However, it has a longer element to it because 
 completing the game heralds a little speech (all text) from the creator of Darwinia first going 
 on about the fate of his beloved creation and then granting you full access to every location in 
 the world of Darwinia because he can no longer do it alone. I dont want to truly spoil the ending 
 for you but I will leave you by saying this: this game has, hands down, the most satisfying and 
 simple ending I have seen in a PC game a while.
  
  Overall, I TRULY recommend this game to anyone who has the scant few bucks they want for it. They 
 grab hold of the TSS philosophy (Think Simple, Stupid) and never let it go. This is a great game 
 with much to offer the world at large. I cannot help but once again praise this game for its uniqueness, 
 style, and depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Like Lionhead, Introversion are a British game developer studio, consisting mainly of one guy. 
 They made games for the Spectrum, one of the first gaming computer's.
  
  Darwinia is a fresh, albeit, bizzar game with clarity and innovation fused with its new genre. 
 The game shows that graphics don't really make a game, however, Darwinia's graphics do look somehow 
 mellow, creative and weird.
  
  The sounds are good, and there is some interesting and further strange music to go along with it. 
 
  
  There are several intro movies, some are v interesting and clever.
  
  The genre has potential, and the developer has won so many cash rewards and prizes, that another 
 creation will undoubtably come our way with this style of Indie gaming.
  
  A brillient release! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skathe08
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  great RTS can be difficult. story is rather short but many add-ons have been made and can be downloaded 
 for extended campaigns. this is definitely one my favorite recent games. very addictive game. this 
 game is very versatile for user add-ons. Only real thing i didnt like about the game was the graphics. 
 i just wasnt too impressed with the graphics, everything was too geometric and not smooth 3d animation. 
 Darwinia's 3D environment is very impressive besides character models. Also, Darwinia's use of 
 programs that requires special commands in order to run and control each character or object. a 
 a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aggies11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  At first glance, this game's graphics might look dated, but they aren't.
  
  There is definitely a "retro" look about Darwinia, but once you start to pay attention you notice 
 that it looks damn good.
  
  For reference, when cranked to max detail, this game can make your rig start to chug (I can get 
 90fps on HL2, and even play Oblivion and Fear on High Quality) . Thats because great effort has 
 gone into making this "simple geometry world" look highly detailed/realistic. You don't feel like 
 you are looking at a crappy game from the 80's, instead it's as if they took one of those games 
 and made it look *real*. If reality was all simple polygons, then this is how it would look. Beautifull.
 
  
  The gameplay is simple, straightforward, easy to learn but difficult to master. The first few missions 
 get you acquainted to the system, but it really starts to ramp up after that. While simple, it 
 ain't easy, there is a good deal of strategy involved.
  
  The story is impressively compelling. You really start to feel a part of this world, and the little 
 darwinians start to feel like they are actually alive.
  
  Ultimately, this game is a pure pleasure to play. Although the world appears terribly simple, it 
 is incredibly immersive, challenging and fun.
  
  Darwinia captures the pure essence of video gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Darwinia is gaming at its best. It is one of the most original releases in recent years and is 
 a wonderfully presented and executed piece of entertainment. Its a glimpse of the games of old, 
 where gameplay and originality was king. Its a game with soul.
  
  For us older folk, the graphics and presentation will bring back memories. Yes they are retro in 
 nature and maybe not 'cutting edge'  but they are quite amazing. The colour schemes and the landscapes 
 presented come to life in way that hasnt been seen on a PC game for some time. It is a trip down 
 memory lane.
  
  The story starts with Dr Sepulveda saying What the hell are you doing here? and is suitably progressed 
 through cut scenes and information from level to level. The story is superb. You wait for the game 
 to run out of ideas, but it doesnt. Without going into too much detail, Darwinia is an electronic 
 world inhabited by Darwinians (essentially they are little green stick men) , but the world has 
 been attacked by a virus and it is up to you the clean out the virus by what ever means necessary, 
 while helping the Darwinian population flourish once again. By cleaning out the virus (from simple 
 virii to the ghastly soul-destroyers) you also get infrastructure working in Darwinia again, 
 which occurs through some original and clever level designs and some seriously intense combat.
 
  
  This game is part everything  a bit of RTS here, a bit of Third Person shooter there, a bit of 
 Lemmings, a bit of Cannon Fodder, a bit Centipede but the game rolls all of its original parts 
 and its influences into a truly fluid and unique experience. Trust me, youll be caring a lot for 
 these little green men by the time you get to The Battle of the Biosphere  which may just be one 
 of the best levels of gaming ever conceived and executed.
  
  Theres so much ingenuity going on harvesting the souls of fallen enemies and incubating them 
 into Darwinians, the glorious air-strike  with the space invaders coming from across the skyline 
 to launch the offensive, the ants, the upgrade system. This is just so fresh.
  
  At times this game moves at a cracking pace, but you can find yourself a quiet spot or moment to 
 prepare you next move. If you fail  its not game over  you recreate your units and start again. 
 Suicide missions are sometimes part of the game  with limited amounts of units available at 
 any one time - by the time one has completed its task, you may need to terminate it to create a 
 new unit to do something else. You dont really lose in Darwinia (though I did have to restart 
 a level once) , rather you re-think what you are doing and try again. It will take some time, but 
 youll grow to like your squads, who drive a lot of the combat action, as well.
  
  Darwinia is probably not an easy game to like. Its not commercial, its not a big-budget affair 
 and they way it is set up, it doesnt provide the instant action or the hook other titles have. 
 This is a slow burner and you may need to invest some time and thought at the beginning. But as 
 each level progresses and new tasks and challenges arise with new landscapes open up for you to 
 go WOW at, you find yourself dragged further in to this game. 
  
  The sound is simplistic, the hum of the worlds, the drone of the engineers, the coarse sounds of 
 the combat, the weird sound of the Darwinians (apparently a distorted recording of Introversions 
 resident feline)  it all fits. There is some suitably retro music during cut scenes and mission 
 completion stages and the variety of Title Screens is just another wonderful touch.
  
  The game is over fairly quickly  ten levels amounting to ten to fifteen hours of gaming, but there 
 is a devoted community putting out some very interesting mods. But then again, I've played it through 
 twice - and I don't replay games all that often. To be honest, I was a bit disappointed with the 
 final level  but it was one amazing trip getting there.
  
  Its available on Steam now for $19.95 or thereabouts, but the boxed version, with the Darwinians 
 spelling out SAVE US is priceless. A quality game of style and substance rather than style or 
 substance.
  
  Play Darwinia.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2o35
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Great, unique game; bad value.
  Darwinia is an amazing RTS game that is unlike any other. The most noticeably unique thing about 
 it is the obviously portrayed 3-D graphics that give you the feeling you're in some virtual 3-D 
 world. The shading and lighting effects bring out the fact that the graphic engine is actually 
 quite well done and that the squarish land appears that way for the reason of setting an atmosphere 
 of the game.
  
  The gameplay is also unique and very fun. Although the amount of things you can actually do is 
 rather limited, it's still quite immersive and doesn't leave you bored. You can command your little 
 programs to destroy the viruses and free the Darwinians. Sounds kind of corny but it is really 
 quite fun.
  
  The only problem that I had with this game was how short it was. I only found out after I bought 
 it, that it was only a single player game. So I found myself having completed the entire game under 
 10 hours of playing, so that pretty much sums up the entire time I ever played it because really 
 once you've beaten the game it's quite useless. There is no replay value at all unless you're a 
 very patient person who can somehow manage to enjoy beating the simple levels again.
  
  Twenty dollars isn't so bad I guess but I was really quite disappointed. If you have 20 dollars, 
 and you don't mind spending it for about 10 hours of fun then definitely get this game because 
 it's definitely very fun and unlike any other game you've played, but if you could spend your money 
 on a game that you could play more, you should probably go for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soc1ety
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Beautifly composed. Ive played this game for 2 days and was late to a sweet 16 because I HAD to 
 get the generator going strong. Its graphics are just right for the game. Essentialy your an anti 
 virus program and this virtual world created by a professor had evolved to the point where it connected 
 to the internet. And as we know, the internet is hell for your PC. The virtual Earth was quickly 
 infested as the virus duplicated itself and corrupted everything it could get its hands on. You 
 come in after the doctor has locked down the PC and at your disposal is squads of infantry with 
 rockets and grenades, engineers to hack buildings and collect data from the virus to be changed 
 back to darwinians, weapons platforms run by darwinians, and air strikes. Best of all, its not 
 a game of ammo or micro managing units. You have 3 spots (you can upgrade it to 4 then 5) to fill 
 with any unit you want. If it dies, you just recode another and place it in your controlled zone. 
 The hard part is adapting to the virus and figuring out how your going to clean the area of the 
 infestation. Its not a shoot em up, though it does contain tons of action. You will get to kill 
 thousands of units by the end but theres a strong tactical presence aswell. Its a very immersive 
 story and you will find yourself fighting for the little green dudes till the sun rises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megawavez
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the trial just for the hell of it and was hooked pretty quickly. Everything is simple, 
 the graphics, sounds, the basic premise, the story, but for some reason it was a hell of a lot 
 of fun - kind of harks back to the days of the old arcade games.
  
  What really is the clincher with this game is the gameplay - you have these little darwinians to 
 run around the map, and although it's 2d, its still silly fun. They scream when threatened which 
 was a little hair raising, but had me laughing afterawhile. It was fun creating commanders and 
 forcing dozens of darwinians to march off to some distant destination.
  
  The big kick for me was getting the bombing run enhancement. Although the graphics are not the 
 most inspiring, it was really thrilling calling in a bombing runs to dust off spiders and the little 
 worms that run around.
  
  If your looking for huge production value you'll probably want to look elsewhere, but for simple 
 fun gameplay - this is a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConJay
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I was thrilled with the uniqueness and perfectness of the game, the graphics, 
 are not, GOOD, but they aren't BAD, which is what makes it so unique, having the people and enemies 
 pixelated gives it such a good atmosphere, like you really are inside a computer program, having 
 "The Doctor" there to help you all the way through is great, and the concept is amazing, once you 
 havge completed the game, the in-game edito is brilliant, and perfect for makign yuor own maps 
 to play on, or let a friend play on your created map, the RTS feel is great, and being able to 
 click where you want your men to go BUT also shooting where YOU want is great, it's a nice feature 
 that you have to pick up research items to get new weapons, people, and so forth, not only do i 
 recommend this unique game, I'm TELLING you, buy it. Now. ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarinho
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Awesome. How can a game surprise me and be different? Ive been playing games for 15 years, and 
 a lot of them. There was even a period where i was extremely jaded and though that most of the 
 games coming out sucked. Now im ok and get to play games like Darwinia, which seems like a RTS 
 but with some things going on that are a tad different. It happens real time, and some of the shock 
 points are frenzy mad, but you allways have time to think of a way to do things and then go crazy. 
 Everything is great on this game - sound, graphics, story, gameplay. The only nag being its lenght. 
 It feals short. Really short. When i was on the last level, i hoped it would last a few more, as 
 i was getting even more excited playing this game! Thats its only flaw really, i dont count the 
 multyplayer since the gameplay would change quite a lot - the part where you plan with calm and 
 the charge - would have to go, since you would need to plan faster that youre adversary. Sooo, 
 sum it up - go buy it! its on Steam! Just load up that steam thingy and download it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axsuul
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Darwinia is a bit slow paced in the beginning but it catches up farily quickly. With a unique story 
 line that ties into the game perfectly, this game should keep you interested up to the very end. 
 This singleplayer game is fun and requires alot of multitasking. The graphics appear to be outdated 
 but were meant to be outdated because everything takes place in a digital world. I highly recommend 
 this game!
  
  The game is a bit short but after you beat the game
  *** SPOILER***
  
  you receive modification tools that you can use to grow out the Darwinia world, but in my opinion 
 it doesn't add to the replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBiker51
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this on Steam, I was interested at what exactly the hell this was. As it turns 
 out, this was a very complicated RTS, with a cool vibe and storyline put in it. What I thought 
 at first was going to be simple, though, became very tough. I don't know; in some ways, I wish 
 this was more like Age of Empires. That was always easy enough for me.
  
  My opinion probably doesn't count, since Civ III is way too hard for me. But, for the people like 
 me who can only handle Age of Empires, this isn't too great. Others might like it, but I didn't 
 too much. I really wanted to like it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This was indeed a very unique game when I first started playing it. You first start playing and 
 you think, wow, this game is pretty cool! An hour goes by and you wonder what will happen next. 
 Two hours later you are so bored you wanna cry. O my gosh, it was sooooooo boring. The first bit 
 is fun, you get ur little men, make an army, and attack the bad guys, but then, it's the same thing 
 over and over again and it's soooo easy. If the game wasn't as easy as it was it might have been 
 more fun but this was an "everyone" game which defines it as very very easy. Don't waste your precious 
 money on the terrible game. Buy another game like Fable, or CSS or DoD. You'll definitly be thanking 
 me if you listen to me and don't buy this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottwilkins
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  Simple 3D interface that get's it high rating from playability, not visuals. The visuals are just 
 enough to get the job done, which is more than plenty. the game survives off a simple "you against 
 the machine" idea where you are the savior for a bunch of AI beings. Easy to grasp, and fun to 
 play. My only complaint is that the game was much too short. I hope to see home-built levels coming 
 out for this game soon, but that will take away from the story a bit. The sounds were very fitting 
 to the game, and the story did hold you into the game some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerman92
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  what a great aftermath to my last review! (Midway Arcade Treasures: Extended Play) The tears have 
 dried up. and i found the perfect game: Darwinia! 
  
  Gameplay: The controls are a bit harder to adapt, This game apologizes with good everything else. 
 The plot of Darwinia is great! As you go through the levels, you actually learn about Darwinian 
 culture, beliefs, and life. Inovative! eventually, i cared a lot about these guys, whenever one 
 died: NOOOO poor guy! Fantastic A. I. includes
  -Darwinians scream and cower in fear at an enemy
  -Darwinians create kites to honor dead darwinians
 
  -Darwinians can follow commands given by officers
  
  Sound: Impressive soundtrack make me happy! other sounds are cat "meow"ing. but i dont hear a winde 
 variety of music or sound...
  
  Graphics: Innovative old-school!
  
  value: a 20$ game thats GREAT! Sure, ill take it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsoth
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Overall this game is down right fun. There are very few menus to deal with and is pretty 
 easy to pick up and play. It offers some challenging strategies in an unique style.
  
  Graphics: By modern standers of techology, this is one of its draw backs. Artistically it's great, 
 by all means, but it offers nothing new to the standards of amazing graphics.
  
  Sound: There's not much to really listen out for. Everything is written in subtitles. There are 
 noises from the "creatures" in the game, but nothing really stands out.
  
  Value: Being that it is only $20, it offers a lot, but it also offers very little too. Seeing that 
 the campaign is very short and it crashes pretty often.
  
  Tilt: I've enjoyed the game, but as I said there are a few drawbacks. It's definately fun and original. 
 This small budget game definately mocks the many big budget failures with in the last few years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tboy1990
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Darwinia is possibly one of the most pleasantly unique games I've ever had the opportunity to play. 
 It's almost in a genre by itself, a sort of RTS tied to automatic AI with base-building elements 
 and objective-focused gameplay. It's both simple, intuitive, and yet complex at the same time. 
 Unlike many games, where victory is your reward, Darwinia's reward is the experience itself. The 
 sights, the sounds, the appealing graphics, suprisingly good storyline, and simplistic design makes 
 Darwinia a modern classic. The only downside is it's length; this game requires a lot of your time. 
 On the flipside, it has no problem with making that time all worth your while. If you enjoy RTS', 
 but would like a fresh experience in the genre, you should get Darwinia right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fleetdoc23
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 20, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Very good game! Hard to believe it hasn't been made yet. Starts off a little slow, but once your 
 research gets up there it becomes very fun! I obtained this off of the steam network, the very 
 same distributor of Half-Life. 
  
  Sort of a mix between a strategy game, and a shooter. Really hard to generalize it. Don't take 
 my word for it, download the demo from steam. Good to see some independent game creators get a 
 shot at getting their product out there. I get tired of all the big money hype that some games 
 get, and then they don't deliever! By that time, they have your 50 bucks, and that's all they care 
 about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cereo1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  I played this game for two days and I loved every minute of it. It has interesting graphics, new 
 and stimulating game play, and it is just plain addictive. I would recommend that everyone try 
 this game but the problem is they expect you to pay for it. After one day I was done with the game 
 and there is really not much replay value. They let you unlock the editor after you beat the game 
 but only certain people are interesting in making their own game. I paid to play the game, not 
 make the levels myself.
  
  So overall, a great game but if you play the demo you are getting enough out of it. If you have 
 $20 to waste then go ahead, but if you want to make the most out of your money then I would consider 
 something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metagnome
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  There seems to be a lot of complaining these days about the sameness of games (you know, the good 
 old "oh, another WWII shooter? Great" kind of complaints. If you've heard anything about Darwinia, 
 it's probably that this a game with fresh new gameplay, a distinctive visual style and produced 
 by an independent developer to boot. This is all pretty much true.
  
  Although there are bits and pieces of gameplay that you may be familiar with, such as the gesture 
 system similar to Black & White's spellcasting, for the most part Darwinia feels like a game that 
 you haven't played before.
  You play the role of a computer user forced to defend the artificial world of a researcher from 
 a nasty virus. At your disposal are a single attack unit (which gets supplemented a bit later in 
 the game with a tank/turret unit) which can be upgraded to carry various weapons, engineers to 
 capture buildings, and the mostly useless but remarkably endearing Darwinians, who behave much 
 like lemmings with the death wish turned down a notch.
  
  Although your engineers will automatically pick up souls from destroyed viruses, which can then 
 be used to create more Darwinians, and your soldiers fire their basic weapons at nearby foes, the 
 creatures of Darwinia are not a bright bunch. They require constant attention and cannot be relied 
 upon to win the day without you, which is just fine because you can have at most five units created 
 at a time, and there are no resources required to build the units anyway. As a result, the gameplay 
 in Darwinia focuses heavily on tactical combat, and I rarely found it useful to have more than 
 a single unit of soldiers under close control with another sitting idle nearby as backup should 
 the first unit be destroyed.
  
  Sadly, like most strategy games, the gameplay does tend to grind somewhat after a while and because 
 it is impossible to run out of resources, victory is always a matter of time which makes the game 
 feel far too easy. While you may never feel that boiling rage of not being able to finish a mission, 
 nor is there any huge sense of accomplishment when a mission is completed.
  
  The graphics in Darwinia are something of a highlight, rendered as they are in a mix of ridiculously 
 low polygon models without texturing and simple 2D sprites. The sound is similarly retro, as if 
 32-bit sound were being used to reproduce the PC speaker sounds of old. The game manages to look 
 and sound exactly as you would expect a digital world under attack from a computer virus to look 
 and sound, and serves as an example that bump-mapping isn't the only way to make a good-looking 
 game.
  
  If you like strategy games, think back wistfully to Sacrifice (and all strategy gamers should) , 
 or just want to take a break from killing Nazis, then Darwinia should hit the spot. Especially 
 considering it's available over Steam and at a budget price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goNPL
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Darwinia is an old-school RTS, Introversion Software's follow-up title (IV also made Uplink - a 
 hacking game) .
  Darwinia is a digital theme park populated by a native AI script called Darwinians. Most of Darwinia 
 was completely overrun by Viral Infection. Dr Sepulveda - creator of Darwinia, is trying to clean 
 the world. The story is poorly told but the game is pretty addictive. The music is great, graphics 
 are definately STUNNING! Graphics are a mix of 2D models and 3D enviroment. The very big plus is 
 modding abilities. Developers gave everything substantial to make a killing modification for Darwinia. 
 You can change everything: models, textures, make and script your own maps, and even provide translations 
 or add custom strings! That's amazing aspect of the game. It's an RTS you must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crofty13
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Its always funny to see when a half decent game comes out from an independant developer it instantly 
 adds gets amazing reviews. 
  Darwinia is a good game in principal, it plays alot like the usual RTS but with a few twists to 
 keep things interesting.
  
  For instance you do not have a base, instead you take over buildings that are on the map which 
 generate little workers called Darwinians. you can only build 3 units to start off with which you 
 can upgrade to 5 later.
  
  The MASSIVE problem is the games AI or lack of it. Your soliders cannot do anything without your 
 direct involvement. If they are attacked whilst you are not directly controlling them they will 
 die. If they have to walk around an object to get somewhere they will get stuck and if thats object 
 is water they die. Luckily to build units is free so this could be worse.
  
  The deal breaker is when your soldiers have to go into battle. The enermy are not very smart but 
 theres alot of them, they can also respawn quicker then you can. This is where the game falls apart. 
 You attack them and you loose. The enermy respawn in higher numbers. You attack again and loose 
 and it keps repeating till you eventually give up.
  
  The controls are for the most part good, the camera control is excellent and ordering around your 
 units is a breeze. The graphics are just UGLY. It was intentionally designed to look ugly! I suppose 
 as an independant developer or bedroom coder you have to make ugly looking games.
  
  At the end of the day they guys who made the game had a good idea they didn't have the talent or 
 skill to make, The game quickly gets dull and its horrid looks don't help you warm to it. You will 
 enjoy the first hour but after that its more of the same and the usless AI leaves you heading to 
 the unistall button.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcosio82
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Love playing darwinia. Lots of commanding squads and such, wish tutorial would have reminded me 
 that I could select research priorities. Oh well... Even though I'm finding a nasty glitch on, 
 hmmmm... forget map name; you know where darwiniangs are born and theres lots of Darwinians running 
 around. Yeah that map is freezing up on me at this one spot. Other than that had fun up to there. 
 Please send me an update. Let's face it, this game is a great attempt at creating a game that visually 
 takes you out of the norm. Combined with low intensity, spawn at your pleasure FUN. Don't expect 
 a bi challenge from this one but definately worth the price and some of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksyme99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:12 am PT
Review:  I first heard of Darwinia when it was released in steam a few weeks ago, and I got and played the 
 demo soon after. I knew after that that I would be buying this game. It is somewhat harsh having 
 to give it only one genre, as you can almost play this as a third person action game... but to do 
 well and to enjoy it to its full you need to think, at least a wee bit.
  
  First off, the graphics are meant to be like that! My friend just installed the demo and said he 
 deleted it because the graphics weren't working, the sky was all blocky! I had to laugh at this. 
 This game is set inside a digital world which was created by a doctor over many years. You come 
 along just as a red virus is about to wipe out the darwinians. Your job is simple - save Darwinia.
 
  
  Before I go any further I should say I am now using v1.2, which changes the one thing I didn't 
 like in the unpatched version, the control system. The control system was very awkward, as it involved 
 drawing shapes with the mouse in order to spawn entities... which was very cumbersome in the heat 
 of battle. Now they have changed to a nice list which you can just click click click.
  
  The story unfolds fast enough that you don't feel it dragging, but slow enough that you learn everything 
 you need to know before the challenging last few levels. One of my only annoyances is it was far 
 too short, but hopefully some good extra maps and campaigns will be released by Introversion and 
 other modders.
  
  There is nothing quite like seeing hundreds of your little Darwinians marching across a map under 
 orders to attack, or see them leap for joy when you win, and mourn a comrade when he falls. You 
 get very attached to your little friends, and the ending is quite emotional. This is a highly addictive 
 and very fun and unique strategy game, which I recommend everyone should get through steam, as 
 it is very cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daymar_Thrax
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that Darwinia has many refreshing elements to it. The visuals are unusual 
 and striking for one, and the setting has a quirky charm to it. But there are many other reviews 
 extolling these and other virtues. So I am going to concentrate on a few items that I considered 
 less than stellar in the hopes that readers will get a more balanced view.
  
  Perhaps the biggest criticism I have of the game can be summed up in the words of my 11-year old 
 son after spending 15 minutes watching me play...
  
  How do you loose?
  
  And in fact I could not come up with a good answer. Troops are infinitely spawnable with no economic 
 penalty for creating as many as you like. Now there *is* a limit on the number you can have going 
 at one time. But I never ever felt as though I was in danger of "losing" a level. In fact the only 
 level I can think of where loosing might be possible is the "save X number of Darwinians", but 
 I was well within the safety margin on this one without changing my standard play strategy.
  
  My second biggest complaint: Enemy AI
  
  There is no AI to speak of. The bulk of all your 
 enemies consist of swarms of viruses or swarms of evil darwinians. They do exhibit swarming behavior 
 and each type of enemy (perhaps a half dozen in all) does seem to exhibit its own autonomic behaviour, 
 but there is very little evidence of the types of emergent behavior you might hope from such a 
 system. In fact, there were several instances where I felt more like I was playing an old game 
 of centipede then a modern RTS. In short, there was exactly one point in the entire game where 
 I was forced to rethink my approach.
  
  Strategy in the last half of the short campaign consisted almost entirely of "tower walking" which 
 has been around since the original C&C. Towers (turrets) are in fact the only structure you can 
 build in this game, and like everything else, there is no economic cost to building them other 
 than the cost to man them with Darwinians. These towers blast away friend and foe alike in a continuous 
 rain of fire, so it's not uncommon to see 20 friendlies die while towers try to get at one hidden 
 enemy. 
  
  Pathfinding is similarly painful. Units will regularly get stuck on a small terrian feature rather 
 than taking an easier path around.
  
  There are only 4 types of units. They have been discussed elsewhere, so I'll skip the descriptions 
 except to say that this seemed weak given the fact that there is no economy to speak of (other 
 than soul gathering) and no buildings can be built (other than turrets) . Give me something new 
 to do please, or at least a new way to kill badies if thats all there is.
  
  Finally, it should be mentioned that I crashed about a dozen times in less than 12 hours play, 
 typically when the screen got very busy (which it does) .
  
  Scoring Synopsis:
  
  Gameplay: 5
  
  This game is revolutionary to RTS in the same way Tron 2.0 was revolutionary 
 to the FPS market... which is to say it *isn't*. It's an RTS stripped of an economy, building management, 
 large scale troop management, and for the most part strategy. What's left has certainly been done 
 before. The one feature I found to be innovative was using the civilian population to man the pre-existing 
 buildings and player-created turrets.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  The graphics are cool and stylish. Easily then best feature of the game. Missed the 10 spot for 
 me by not capitalizing on all the cool gee-whiz effects they could have done in a computer simulated 
 environment. View-dependent lighting on the landscape would have been nice as well.
  
  Sound: 4
  
  Big booms and digitized screaming. Ouch. Vintage demo music is the only reason 
 this isn't a 2 or 3.
  
  Value: 5
  
  This would have been a lot lower if it weren't only $20. 10-12 hours play for me, 2 of which were 
 crash recovery replays. It would have been even shorter except I didn't discover that troops were 
 upgradable via the "task manager" until the second to last mission. I'd hate to think how short 
 the game would have been if I had played through with upgraded gear. (I finished the game only 
 being able to summon 3 units. The demo had 5, so I was wondering for the longest time.)
  
  Tilt: 7
  
  Despite the negatives, I applaud the effort. I *really* loved elements of this game 
 and want to see more indie effort. Thi sis 80% of a *great* game. I hope we figure out a way to 
 get developers like this funded better so we can see a complete product. Maybe Valve can channel 
 some of there profits from this game to that effect. I have high hopes for systems like Steam, 
 but they have got to deliver better than this.
  
  In short: PLAY THE DEMO
  
  If its cool enough that you'd consider replaying the demo, then buy the game. If replaying the 
 demo does not sound appealing, then think twice, as what you'll be getting it 10-12 hours of more 
 of the same (less if you are smarter than me and discover the upgrade menu earlier on) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perth68
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2005 10:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is fairly simple at heart. Really 4 options of units slightly limited by how many active 
 things you can have running at once. Squad based action-warfare where you combat a virus inside 
 the first ever virtual themepark, darwinia. The theme park is inhabited by darwinians, little green 
 stick figures that have they're own ai-ness. They really grow on you.
  
  The game is really interesting just because of the interactions between the darwinians, their creator, 
 and their world. It has a very cool reincarnation cycle and everything in the game has a soul. 
 As the story develops it gets quite poignant.
  
  The gameplay itself is quite fun, and is a lot more difficult and deep then it would appear at 
 first glance. Limited attacks still offer quite abit of options unlike other games where they're 
 are tons but its quite limited.
  
  The environment is interesting itself. It has retro graphic that at first I found myself thinking 
 they we're dated. But it is actually quite gorgeous at portions of the game. The sound itself is 
 fun, interesting, cute and cool.
  
  All in all I would heavily suggest this game for anyone looking to try something different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyriel
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I've been looking for a game that pushed the limits of what had been done, that brought a new gaming 
 experience and had originality. I really wasn't expecting this from a ordinary looking game like 
 Darwinia. 
  
  I saw it popup in my Steam interface, saw a few good reviews and tried the demo. The first shock 
 is to go beyond the graphics and sounds. Honestly, this game looks 10 years old or more. However, 
 once you get into the game, the originality of the story, the gameplay, you'll get hooked.
  
  Darwinia is somewhat like the lemmings meet starcraft. It's not quite a RTS, it's not quite 
 a puzzle game. It's way more than an adventure game. I loved the demo so much I finally bought 
 the game. At 19.99 on Steam, I think you get A LOT for your money. This game has many many hours 
 of gameplay.
  
  Highs: Original, addictive, strategic
  
  Lows: graphics, sounds, no save game (it saves gamestate in a profile at the end of a level) , no 
 pause (only way to pause is to alt+tab to desktop)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterfg
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 19, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  Darwinia is a highly addictive game that makes you keep wanting to play more. The interface is 
 simple and easy to use once you get the hang of it. One of the disappointments is that there is 
 less to do than I thought there would be to do. The game always rewards you with upgrades of your 
 choice every now and then, so it doesn't get boring. You also find some research items that give 
 you new weapons and upgrades. The best unit is by far the 'Armour', which is transport for darwinians 
 and can turn into a cannon. The graphics combine 2D with 3D, giving it a great effect.
  I recommend that you buy the game from Steam. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaethro
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I expected to buy Darwinia at some point. I had heard about it over the '05 summer and figured 
 that I would do the society of small developers a good deed, seeing as how nothing much of note 
 was on the horizon (at least in the strategy genre) . The novel concept of the three-dimensional 
 8-bit world was intriguing to say the least. The little green darwinians would seem to be the basic 
 selling point of the game. After all, how could you not like a game based around little green stick 
 figures that move around in a 3d world?
  
  The only catch came after I started playing the game, at which point I realized that this was far 
 from being a simple novelty, but the darwinians were in fact just the cornerstones of an amusing 
 game that surpassed my expectations on multiple levels.
  
  Darwinia is not truly a strategy game, but then neither is it anything else. Part of the game's 
 ingenuity spawns from its colorful hybrid form. There is no reason you cannot turn it into a strategy 
 game, but then neither is there a reason it can't be a third-person shooter game. The same goes 
 being an adventure game; Darwinia does not seem to try and walk a line between these different 
 ideals, but instead appears to ignore them entirely and treads on its own path. The result is surprisingly 
 effective. It forms the basis for a game that is simple but nevertheless blooms in complexity and 
 depth.
  
  Darwinia was quite apparently designed for an eccentric audience. Hardcore strategy gamers, stat-builders, 
 and most FPS players will be deterred by this game's artistic feel, and agreeably so; the kind 
 of story and gameplay, not even to mention graphics, that can be expected out of Darwinia are very 
 whimsical and fantastic and won't be enjoyed too much by the above-mentioned kinds of gamers.
 
  
  Outside of those just referred to, I would easily recommend this game to anyone who needs a cheap 
 game to play for a couple of hours. For $20, the game does not disappoint. The action is intense, 
 the amusement to be had is quite extensive, and the replay value is definitely there. The only 
 thing that could bar from liking this game is that to get something out of Darwinia you have to 
 put something in. You must have an interest before you start; observing the game at face value 
 will avail you nothing, but delve in with the desire to have fun and you will not be turned away.
 
  
  The graphic design of this game surpasses most any other game I have ever played. Let me finish. 
 This is one of the only good games out there that will run on a standard laptop with a stable framerate. 
 Coupled with the fact that the artistic combination of two dimensional and three dimensional effects 
 is nothing less than outstanding in appearance, I have to concede that Introversion's graphic design 
 is truly superior to that of many other much larger corporations. No game on the market can give 
 you highly intense explosive combat with as stable a performance as Darwinia, and that is the shameful 
 truth.
  
  Recommended for:
  -Half-life 2 owners (go Steam!)
  -Gamers that don't have much cash to spend
  -Strategy gamers (who are tired of all these stupid 
 / disappointing sequels; i. e. Age of Empires 3)
  -Laptop Gamers
  
  NOT Recommended for:
  -Half-life 2 owners that bought it so they could play Counterstrike: Source
 
  -PvP MMO players
  -Most anyone that already owns an X360 (be sure to note the date of post) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagget0101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 3:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the screenshots for Darwinia, I was very skeptical. It seemed it would be doomed 
 to the same fate of mediocre reviews as countless other budget titles. Then, the reviews came pouring 
 in; not one of them a negative one. The critics loved the game. Apparently, it was worth my $20.
 
  
  They couldn't have been more right. From the moment the loading screen appears you are fully immersed 
 in what can only be called the "Darwinia personality." I've seen several different start up screens 
 for Darwinia; some were even interactive. 
  
  However, it is not just the personality of the game, which is magnificently complemented by the 
 graphics and text, that makes it a classic. The gameplay is possibly the most addicting I've played 
 in some time. The premise is simple: a virus has overrun the virtual world of Darwinia, and the 
 population of Darwinians is fading. Your task is to save them. Fighting the virus is quite arcade-like, 
 though in a good way. It's been quite some time since I last played a game where zapping bad guys 
 was so much fun.
  
  Aside from the addictive gameplay is a story that I never thought I could get attached to. The 
 pieces of the puzzle slowly fall into place as the levels unfold, revealing the true nature as 
 to how the virus got in. The story is quirky, funny, moving, but still well pieced together. I 
 never thought I'd feel so much emotion for tiny green stick men.
  
  If there are any downfalls to the game, it would be it's length. The game is quite short. However, 
 that's to be expected from a $20 title. It definitely left me wanting more. And, after hours of 
 virus slaying, the motions can get slightly repetitious, making the game a victim of it's own addictive 
 gameplay in some ways.
  
  All in all, Darwinia is a truly fun, moving, and unique game. It is a gaming experience you've 
 never experienced, and for $20, it's one you certainly won't want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boompixel
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:30 am PT
Review:  Well in short I looked at this game and thought to myself "this looks stupid", but curiosity got 
 the best of me and I downloaded the demo via steam. I ran through a nicely laid out demo and after 
 I was done with it last night I said to myself "wow this is totally fun and addictive". I ended 
 up purchasing the game through steam today for 20 bucks and let me tell you guys it was the best 
 20 bucks I ever spent. I'm sure it's not a game for everybody but if you run through the demo you 
 will find yourself wanting to purchase it pretty quick. It's very different from most of the cookie 
 cutter type games you find coming out day after day these days. Different is good and I give this 
 game a 9.0 out of 10. The only thing that makes is a 9 would be the graphics are not wicked cutting 
 edge but they compliment the gameplay very well so don't take my word for it grab steam @ www. steampowered. com 
 and get the demo to see for yourself. 
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyCastaway
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Darwinia is an amazing game. The gameplay is like none other. It's a real-time strategy third-person 
 shooter. In the game you control programs. In the demo there are 3 programs you control. First 
 there is a squad. The Squad is your strong arm. You tell them where to go and they'll go there 
 and shoot anything that comes near them. Although they don't achieve their full potential until 
 you take control of them. Then you can control their full-auto lasers and grenades. These guys 
 alone make the game fun. Then comes the Engineers. These little guys go wherever you tell them 
 and get all of your cool upgrades. You can tell them to go to infected "buildings" and reprogram 
 to be on your side. An example of this is where you tell them to take control of a radar dish, 
 where you then take control of the dish and line it up with an enemy one to transport your squads 
 to the next area. Also, the engineer can get research from little cubes floating around to make 
 your programs and the Darwinans more powerful. More on the Darwinians in a bit. Finally you can 
 use the engineer to collect little squares from infected things you kill with your squads. The 
 engineers in turn take them back to a special building which then converts these squares into good 
 Darwinians. The Darwinians are the core of the game. They are what you are fighting for. They are 
 highly advanced AI which live inside of a 3D world in a super-computer. They have their own free-will, 
 culture, beliefs, and weapons. They can fight for you, but aren't particularly affective unless 
 you need something to slow down your enemies. They can do such things as take over little Darwinian 
 breeding buildings that spit out Darwinians without an input. And they can run solar powered panels 
 to create electricity. But, they can't do much unless you lead them. But since they have a free-will 
 you have to convert a few of then into leaders. Leaders are part program, part Darwinian. You can 
 tell them where to go and tell them to tell the Darwinians where to go. This allows you to effectively 
 control the Darwinians without taking away their freedom. Now one of the great things of this game 
 is the interface. You use a combo of WASD and mouse for almost everything. You use the standard 
 Left Shift to move extra fast across the screen. And if you need to run an extra program you just 
 press TAB. Holding TAB brings up the control panel allowing you to create new programs (like Squads) 
 and delete ones you aren't using. Also, you can view your objective and stats by pressing either 
 W or S. The graphics of the game are mediocre with a special affect that makes things look pix 
 elated and old school. If you like either FPS or RTS you should get this game. It is only $20 through 
 Steam (from Valve) or you can play the demo for free. Everything in this game makes it a must play 
 and the best game since Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixel-alchemist
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:26 am PT
Review:  It's hard to put a finger on exactly what it is about Darwinia that makes it seem out of place. 
 Not to say that the feeling is necessarily bad, or disruptive to gameplay and other mechanics, 
 just that you should be warned immediately that Darwinia is rather ambitious in nature, and yet 
 somehow reluctant. What I mean is that they tried very hard to keep it original and fun, but it 
 seems like they missed something... perhaps that something is purely cosmetic, but either way the 
 gameplay is still enjoyable. Darwinia puts you into the role of a man who can control the stylized 
 world visually paraphrased into a living ecosystem, with beings existing in cyberspace completely 
 aware of themselves and living lives. This creates an interesting dilemma, because it does indeed 
 create a very unique storyline, but it seriously bombs graphically due to the plot-line. I should 
 point out, however, that the graphics are not poor, they are just far too pretentious in my opinion. 
 That aside, the game let's you take command of various creatures within the virtual world to manipulate 
 at your will, in a constant goal to perpetuate the existence of the Darwinian inhabitants. Truly 
 the gameplay is addictive, but also shy and could have been elaborated upon slightly more. The 
 control/camera angels are spot on, they did a great job of allowing visual manipulation so that 
 the player can view their world from many different angles.
  Polished off with some quirky substance, this game would have simply been a smile in a sea of decent 
 games, but the catch is this; It is only 19.95$ right from launch. This is why I bought Darwinia, 
 and this is why I advise all people interested in a gaming change of pace to get a copy of Darwinia 
 and play the hell out of it this holiday season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcek
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  This game rocks!!
  want a simple review... remember first time you ever played civilization?
  Playing the game has 
 been the same experiance for me in terms of addictivity.
  The charm is like you try the game.. it first doesn't look much.. after awhile you order your meals 
 from infusion. Its so addicting its scary!!!!!
  
  Say goodbye to your loved ones and plunge into darwinia... it only gets better and better.
  
 
  When i was playing the game it feels like a combination of the best simple games.. with a twist. Just 
 shows that a game dosent need graphics to be good... its nice but playability is FIRST!
  
  Don't miss on this one... let yourself get blown away... not many games hade the same affect as this 
 one. Hook me on some more Darwinia.. yours truly 
  
  a darwinia addict. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supamunky
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:37 am PT
Review:  Darwinia is the second game produced by Introversion software. Their first game: Uplink allowed 
 the player to take the role of a hacker and accomplishing missions for clients that gradually got 
 harder as the game progressed. Darwinia keeps up the tradition of being a game that isnt like 
 the usual sort. It is however, a Real Time Strategy game.
  
  The story of Darwinia is that the game is set in the worlds first digital theme park. But it isnt 
 fun at the fair like you would expect, there has been a virus that has created monsters of sorts 
 that have put the inhabitants of Darwinia: the Darwinians to the brink of extinction. But you arrive 
 by luck as the doctor who made the world is trying to save the remaining Darwinians and put things 
 right. Its also your job to save the Darwinians and destroy the virus that has spread across Darwinia.
 
  
  Although this game is a RTS game, it doesnt follow the rule of building a base at the beginning 
 of the level or creating armies and sending them out. All you have got at your disposal is the 
 Darwinians. They are not directly controllable as they are controlled by AI and they will do things 
 by themselves if you dont give them orders to carry out. They also need to be created with souls 
 that are collected by Engineers. There are some programs, which you can make use of yourself. To 
 begin with these are the Squad and Engineer programs. The squad is a few soldiers that you have 
 control of you can also get hold of the research to arm them with different secondary weapons, 
 such as grenades, air strikes (you place a beacon for aircraft to bomb that point and rockets. 
 The engineers are your work horse of reprogramming buildings so you can use them and to collect 
 souls to create Darwinians. As Darwinians are the most important things you will need as they can 
 use buildings to aid you and when they are able to fight for themselves, it means some work is 
 lifted from you.
  
  To run programs you have to create a gesture in the program window. If you have played the original 
 Black and White game, it would come easily to you to create a gesture. Personally I find it a bit 
 of a pain. As you have to be careful when making a gesture as if you get it wrong, you get a syntax 
 error and have to do the gesture again. I only have trouble with making gestures to change a squads 
 secondary weapon, but when you have made a gesture almost identical to how you are shown it. You 
 get a little miffed and some words will be said Especially when you make a very half baked attempt 
 at running a different program and it's accepted. The gestures are a nice idea as I don't see it 
 very often in a game, but I just wished they had an alternative.
  
  The game isnt a game to push your newest hardware as the game is designed to look like a virtual 
 world. But by virtual you always think a few years ago before 3D accelerated games or VR games 
 that you heard of and saw but never got a chance to play with yourself. So for me I was able to 
 run the game with the settings all on with it only going down to 30 frames per second when I was 
 looking at an entire area when there was virus completely dominating it and that is with a Geforce 
 4. The only other thing that may push old hardware a bit is making loads of explosions at once 
 on your enemies as the explosions look pretty funky with the old VR style and they seem a little 
 more satisfying than some explosions I've seen in RTS games as well ^__^. Another interesting touch 
 is how the programs you run as well as the enemies can be in sprite mode for that old look as the 
 sprites are really low resolution and kinda messes with my head when I play the game on 1280x1024 
 resolution. Or you can have a full 3D version of the programs and monsters, I prefer that to be 
 honest as its just easier for me to tell where they are when looking at them from an angle.
  
  The controls are also simple but good except like I said earlier; when trying to run certain 
 programs. The direction keys are used to move the camera around an area, whilst the mouse is used 
 for looking around, selecting programs and making them do stuff. Its that easy. But it may take 
 some getting used to not using the mouse to scroll around the map and that moving the mouse turns 
 the camera.
  
  The audio is strange as the games sounds are all just beeps, boops and various other electronic 
 noises. You never hear any English speech as the Darwinians and the programs have their own voices 
 that to us dont make a great deal of sense. The music however is usually slow and somewhat sad 
 to me, it kinda goes with how Darwinia is almost completely wasted because of the viral outbreak. 
 It is nice to listen to though. But there isn't really much else to say about the game's audio 
 other than that.
  
  Personally I enjoyed playing through this game as you were given new problems and challenges as 
 you made progress. It also got me into the habit of playing this in the style of 'let's eliminate 
 one more island of virus!' The game itself is only a single player, but dont let it stop you from 
 getting this if you just like to play against people on-line in RTS games. It has its charm of 
 being not like your usual game. Plus it isnt a demanding game in terms of requirements either. 
 So I would recommend it to anyone who likes something different in their game and to RTS fans. 
 Also Steam users will soon be able to purchase this on-line through the Steam service. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Varsity_UK
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Do you think Half-Life 2s finale was rubbish? Do you use scripts, and win games through one strategy 
 that you spend all your time practicing? Do you think Max Payne is too short? Perhaps you get bored 
 during the meat grinder section of a Total War campaign game? If you answered yes to all of those 
 then you can leave right now, because you have precisely none of the qualities needed to appreciate 
 Darwinia and you arent going to get them any time soon. To see Darwinia for what it really is 
 you need to be able to adapt to new ideas, have an active imagination, understand the meaning of 
 restraint, and be able to go out and make entertainment instead of always waiting for it to be 
 delivered. This is because Darwinia is not an ordinary game  in fact its about as far from ordinary 
 as you can get.
  
  The basic premise is that of a virtual theme park populated by innocent AI beings known as Darwinians. 
 A virus has infected this world of visualised code and it is now up to you (the player  there 
 is no character or name) to clear it away by retro-fitting programs originally intended for harmless 
 minigames visitors might play.
  
  These include the Squad, which starts out as a group of three polygonal floating tin soldiers wielding 
 lasers and a selectable explosive weapon each. They are controlled in a similar manner to your 
 men from Cannon Fodder, the first of many feature cameos, but with several important differences 
 down both to the story and the games development team totalling two: they have next to no AI or 
 pathfinding, cost nothing to produce instantly, and havent got to worry about ammunition, morale, 
 fatigue, or any other such weaknesses of the flesh.
  
  And by and large this works, but  and its a big but  only if you are able to shake off the clich 
 of controlling little men and adapt to the new idea of your units being not sentient beings but 
 tools. They, like computers, can only do what you tell them to do. But when you order your squads 
 a short distance and they then plunge down a steep ravine instead of taking the easy-but-slightly-curved 
 route avoiding it, and must then spend two minutes climbing out, you will find yourself tearing 
 hairs out.
  Darwinians, who you can only control indirectly by promoting one to a General and issuing orders 
 with him, follow the same pattern. As well as suffering from the same pathfinding issues as Squads 
 (making herding them around extra irritating) , once you have issued them an order they will ignore 
 all others until they are at their destination. When your tiny charges get stuck in an endless 
 loop of running into water and retreating only to run into it again trying to get to a location, 
 your only choice is to leave the game running for half and hour as they edge along the shore or 
 reset the location. Twenty-thousand generations my arse.
  
  It is also ironic that in a game where almost every slope is climbable (albeit slowly) , the slightest 
 bump in the landscape can spell death. If there is any form of rise before one of your squads and 
 you fire an explosive it will usually hit it and travel in an unpredictable path or, in the case 
 of rockets, explode there and then and turn your Squad into polygon fragments. This isnt so bad 
 in the earlier stages but by the time you get to the penultimate island you simply dont have the 
 time to angle the camera around and check.
  
  What you actually do with the Squads would in a mortal game be the core of the gameplay. In Darwinia 
 they are used to blast Viral infection. Yes, thats it. There is very little strategy involved 
 besides basic positioning . Its because Darwinia is not a strategy game. It is an action game 
 that you just so happen to control with an RTS-like interface and a scattering of RTS-like ideas, 
 ideas like a Ground Control-esque camera, C&C-like controls, and Black and White-styled interface.
 
  
  Darwinia is all about the action. And what action.
  
  Simply laying down laser fire at tens of virus worms bearing down on a squad is a hypnotic experience. 
 Add the gloriously stylised explosions and its almost overwhelming. Dont even get me started 
 on the audio. Smoke, in fact a stream of polygons, gushes from the rear of your rockets before 
 they impact, sending up a shower of translucent squares and the squeals of dying viruses. The flare 
 from an airstrike marker sends red-tinged diamonds, again translucent, drifting across the fractal 
 landscape until a swarm of invaders arrives at it to deposit high explosives to blinding, deafening, 
 and deadly effect. The games visual design makes an interesting contrast to Doom 3: one offered 
 astonishing technology with quite frankly crap art, whereas the other has a ridiculously basic 
 partly sprite-based programmatic engine serving up crisp, bold and unforgettable vistas.
  
  The more attentive of you will have noticed a very swift digression from gameplay to graphics over 
 the last few paragraphs. Let me assure you, it is not in error. A large part of Darwinias fun 
 is found in its visual power and the way you interact with it. You cant use realistic graphics 
 alone to entertain  why not go out and see the real thing?  but Darwinias unique style is truly 
 mesmerising. Youll sometimes catch yourself simply staring at the islands with their milling infection 
 and beautifully haunting fractal trees. The ability to then go and blow it all up in a similarly 
 trippy style feels like a bonus on a bonus.
  
  Yet another blasphemous departure from the standard game template in Darwinia is the fact that 
 you cant lose. You could theoretically run out of souls to convert into Darwinians needed to complete 
 an objective, true, but other than that rare event there isnt any way to fail. When you play Darwinia 
 it isnt a question of IF you can complete it, but HOW you do so. And when you realise that you 
 realise that the challenge hasnt gone: it has moved. It has moved into the real world. The penalty 
 for losing Darwinia isnt having to stare at a loading screen, but to miss out on nearly everything 
 the game offers. It is a bold step and one that will lose the game any last vestige of mass-market 
 appeal it may once have had but pays of dividends for those who overcome it.
  
  Darwinia has a story to it but as you might by now be weary of hearing, it doesnt take an orthodox 
 form. Theres Dr. Sepulveda with the trials and tribulations of his virtual universe but thats 
 a token for people who cant see what the story is really about: Darwinia, the Darwinians, and 
 the way their world and society works. The plot is merely an excuse to tell you the story and let 
 you experience the game. A weak excuse, it must be said, for the plot is boring and predictable, 
 but an excuse nonetheless. The story itself will likely draw you in to the game world and leave 
 you interested to hear more until it ends. Which is as much as you can ask for from such a title.
 
  
  Ultimately, Darwinia is a game whose major flaw and greatest triumph is its dependence on the user. 
 Darwinia is a sandbox with direction, and artists palette of entertainment with the hand of a 
 master guiding you. There is some pleasure to be had barrelling through to get to the end but to 
 really get the most out of Darwinia youve got to give a little too. Be generous today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikkle
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2005 1:14 pm PT
Review:  (This is a spoiler-free review!)
  
  Darwinia is the life work of Dr. Sepulveda. It is his experiment, a digital landscape he created 
 to study AI patterns and behaviors. It is inhabited by the Darwinians, a simple lifeform whose 
 intelligence has slowly evolved over hundreds of generations. But a glitch in the system has recently 
 allowed a deadly virus to infect the digital world. The virus has now spread to every subsytem, 
 and tremendous damage has been done... And this is where you come in!
  
  In Darwinia, you play the role of a System Administrator in charge of getting rid of the nasty 
 virus. The game takes you through each of the subsystems in Darwinia, where you must accomplish 
 a series of objectives. These mission objectives are diverse: clearing the virus threat, rescuing 
 Darwinians, restoring power to other subsystems, etc.
  
  You accomplish these objectives by running Tasks via the Task Manager. This is done by performing 
 a mouse gesture that corresponds to the Task you want to run. For example, to create a virus attack 
 Squad, you "draw" a triangle with your mouse on the Task Manager, and a Squad unit is created in 
 the digital world. Each Task is initiated by a different mouse gesture. You can run many types 
 of Tasks, each with a specific purpose. The trick is that you can only run a limited number of 
 tasks at the same time. Additionally, you can only issue orders to one Task at a time (you switch 
 between tasks using Alt+Tab) . This forces you to use your head and manage your resources carefully 
 to complete a given mission. If this sounds complicated in theory, don't worry: It is all very 
 intuitive in practice, as the game does a fine job of introducing gameplay elements gradually.
 
  
  The first Task you will learn is the Squad task. When you create a Squad, you control an armed 
 unit that can attack the virus. This is the main action element of the game. The squad members 
 shoot lasers as their primary weapon, and they also have access to a number of destructive secondary 
 weapons. The controls are simple and responsive, yet it takes a good amount of skill to truly control 
 a Squad unit effectively. Although the enemy AI is relatively simple, many of the virus units you 
 face will prove challenging, if only because of their sheer numbers. I do not want to spoil anything, 
 so I will let you find out about the other Tasks... and how the Darwinians themselves play into 
 all of this.
  
  At the beginning of the game there are only a small number of Tasks available to you, but as the 
 game progresses you will learn additional (and more powerful) Tasks. The game also features a Research 
 element. As you go through the missions, Dr. Sepulveda will research enhancements to existing Tasks, 
 such as faster or higher capacity units, more powerful weapons, etc. There are four versions of 
 each Task, v1.0 to v4.0. Because there is no way to research everything, what you decide to focus 
 on has a direct impact on how you play the game. There are different ways to complete specific 
 objectives, so you will want to concentrate research on areas that enhance your own tactics.
  
  Artistically speaking, Darwinia is really something to behold. As you can see from the screenshots, 
 none of the 3D models are textured, in fact they are all flat-shaded. This gives the game a very 
 distinctive, old-school look that is reminiscent of video games from the 1980's. Unfortunately 
 the screenshots do not do the game justice. An added bonus due to the simplicity of the models: 
 the game can display a *very* large number of units... As you will soon find out :) Although the 
 graphics are simple, they are very polished. The game contains some neat lighting and particle 
 effects. It also features a dozen or so easter-egg "loaders" -- an obvious wink to the author's 
 computer hacking days -- that are fun to watch when the game starts up, and add to the immersiveness 
 factor.
  
  I wish I could share more with you about Darwinia, but I would not want to spoil anything for you. 
 It is a journey you must make yourself. Darwinia is part strategy game, part action game, part 
 god-game, and pure addictive fun throughout. Darwinia is one of the few games that manages to draw 
 inspiration from different game genres to create something totally new, and actually pull it off. 
 My hat goes off to Introversion UK for creating a truly refreshing, innovating experience. This 
 game is exceptional. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f00
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 29, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the type of game that I play games for. It is absolutely unique in its presentation. it 
 really feels like a cohesive whole - not something that thirty people put together. 
  
  The storyline is as good as any science fiction story, though it is presented very simply. 
  
 
  The graphics are old school taken in its parts, but put together, they are gorgeous. The interface 
 is unique and yet totally accessible.
  
  If you like simplicity, uniqueness, and elegance in your game design, this game is an excellent 
 way to go.
  
  The music is sparse, but put exactly where it needs to be. I despise a soundtrack that blankets 
 an entire movie or game and this game knows where it belongs.
  
  My only complaint is that it slows down at parts - especially at the later levels. I had not updated 
 the program nor did I take the advice the official site offers before I finished the game. If I 
 had done these, not to mention, upgraded my Athlon 1900+, I may not even have this complaint.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyberpixie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2005 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing computer games since I was six. I dont know how many games I have played. More 
 than I can remember anyway, but Ive never played anything like Darwinia. From the eye-catching 
 box and amusing manual to the 60Mb install (really!) everything about Darwinia intrigues. What 
 kind of game is it you ask? Ill tell you.
  
  This game is fun. Remember that? When games were fun? Not just about flashy graphics? It really 
 is a joy to play. Playing the game is rewarding and exciting, and levels can be completed in many 
 different ways (check out the official forums to get an idea) . Not to say that its non-linear, 
 but that you can play it by your style. At heart, it's kind of a puzzle game. Normally you have 
 to save Darwinians (little green A. I. guys) and complete an objective, killing the invading Virus 
 on the way. However, a fair amount of strategy has to be used, but its not an RTS. There is no 
 resource gathering or building bases or tank rushes. Its done in a more, well, retro arcade way. 
 You control a squad (you get other units to use later) by clicking where you want the to go, 
 and firing with the right mouse button. Sound familiar? Yip, there is a fair bit of retro goodness 
 in here, this arcade shooting gives a fairly large nod in the direction of Syndicate and Cannon 
 Fodder as well as a couple of fantastic references to the Spectrum. But dont be put off! This 
 game is not just for geeks. There is a lot of barefaced good fun in its artificial soul. Believe 
 me, you will start thinking that the game is really happening and these poor little guys are dying. 
 Once you get into it, you never want to leave. Its simple graphical beauty and sound suck you in, 
 emotional attachments to the Darwinians themselves is unavoidable. You will franticly try to save 
 every last one of them and then rain your wrath down on the Virus for its evil.
  
  Some may complain about the graphics and that it lacks the nitty-gritty realistic look that we 
 come to expect these days. I feel this would be unfair as this is not what its trying to achieve. 
 Darwinia is set inside a computer (ala. Tron) and therefore has little connection with the world 
 we see. The graphics engine is well polished and does a fantastic job with the landscapes as well 
 as the game worlds creatures. Everything about it had this wonderful, lovely glowing warmth to 
 it. The way objectives get lit up, the light emitted from trees, the nasty insect like Viri and 
 the little Darwinians themselves are all beautifully displayed. 
  
  Its control system is also very interesting. It uses the keyboard to move the camera (viewpoint) 
 and the mouse for direction and selection of programs etc, sounds normal no? However, a gesture 
 system is used to create new units, which is fun, requires skill and can make things pretty intense 
 during big battles. The game doesnt have a specific training area, but the first couple of levels 
 get you used to the controls and slowly give you hints to ease you in. 
  
  Sound and music are also very very good. Music is only really used during the intro and after all 
 objectives have been met, but when they kick in, youll want to just sit back and listen. Warming 
 and sometimes touching tracks with a more retro electronic beat (Spectrum style) add a lot to the 
 atmosphere. The ambient sound is fantastic too, compromising mainly of the Darwinians and the Viri. 
 The Darwinians make funny, cute little noises and are especially lovable after a sector has been 
 cleared when they start jumping/dancing around making chirping guinea pig like sounds. The viri 
 on the other hand make nasty insect like sounds, scratching and wriggling their way around the 
 landscape. When flying about the landscape expect to hear many more sounds individual to the 
 area, mining carts creaking around, and electricity cracking down power lines, all adding to the 
 joy of exploring this amazing world. 
  
  Its makes me smile this game. A lot. To think that id and other huge companies now spend millions 
 making games, only to produce something just like everything else. Technically amazing, but cold 
 and devoid of any emotion or warmth. 
  
  I feel that there is something very human about Darwinia. I bow down before it, both for its form, 
 and its wonderfully quirky soul.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 20, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Interesting game, however it makes me wonder wether they chose the simple pixelated graphics design 
 for artistic reasons (which many reviewers seem to think) or to save money and time doing real 
 graphics. :)
  
  I am pretty convinced it is the latter, the game has the word BUDGET written all over it.
  
 
  It truly does remind me of something some college geeks would throw together, no bomb this game 
 supports Linux to put it that way. It has the trademark of geek all over the design, and might 
 therefore also appeal only to those, yet it maintains a quite polished feel of it and manage to 
 raise itself to an acceptable level for a retail game.
  
  It can be a fresh wind in the RTS game market, but is nowhere near to come up to par with the current 
 base of RTS games like Age of Mythology or Warhammer 2000. It has a completely different angle 
 though, so you might still appreciate it for it's unique style, and if nothing else, it's low price 
 tag.
  
  Personally I think it is good that small game companies come up with new ideas, it would be sad 
 to see the big corporations take the whole game market and flushing out games with no new ideas 
 whatsoever, just making money investing in safe and tried formulas.
  
  If you do not mind a game that is a bit retro, and a bit rough in the edges, then give it a try. 
 It has some interesting and new ideas. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
