-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dawnspire: Prelude
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/dawnspireprelude/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Promising concept blending the action RPG style of play with capture the flag.
 Fantastic music and sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Hard to find a server with more than a few human players.
 Bots are extremely tough and pretty stupid.
 Map designs are almost completely devoid of interesting features.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 5.8, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 99 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Silent Grove
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Apr 3, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dawnspire is an action RPG in the vein of Diablo, spiced up with capture-the-flag action but lacking 
 most of the addictive fun of that great hackfest. 

  Dawnspire: Prelude may not cost anything in monthly fees, but this hacking-and-slashing online 
 role player from Silent Grove Studios isn't quite worth playing even if you're getting it on the 
 cheap. While there is a tremendous amount of potential here, the game isn't totally ready for prime 
 time, thanks to subpar artificial intelligence and a shortage of human players.  

          Defending a relic... without the aid of dumb bot allies, who spawn and then immediately 
 take off for parts unknown.     

  For those who've never experienced online Diablo in all its addictive glory, the concept here is 
 simple to grasp. You log in, team up with buddies, and proceed to slaughter and loot your way through 
 one dungeon after another until your mouse finger seizes up from the incessant clicking. Gameplay 
 here varies little from those core clickfesty concepts, although it does introduce a dash of online 
 first-person shooters courtesy of Relic Conquest, its capture-the-flag-inspired single mode of 
 play (and apparently more are in the works) . So instead of wandering dungeons, you sign up with 
 the light or dark teams and, on fantasy-inspired outdoor maps, fight over three magical artifacts 
 that need to be installed in your base to earn victory.  

  The RPG backbone of the game is equally straightforward. After registering a free account, you 
 go through a quickie character-creation process where you think up a name, pick from a traditional 
 D&amp; D-style crew of classes that includes stand-ins for the tried-and-true cleric, mage, thief, 
 fighter, and barbarian, and then dole out skill points among standard stat categories like health 
 and mana. Combat is fairly simplistic for the most part, too, although in addition to melee battles 
 with traditional fantasy accoutrements like swords and staves, you also need to astutely use a 
 handful of class-specific special powers like the templar's clericlike heal and angelic armor, 
 the seeker's barbarian-style berserker fury and bullrush, and the witch's nature's wrath and plague 
 of weakness spells. All of these skills are chosen during character creation, either by custom-selecting 
 them or by picking from two or three default loadouts.  

  Essentially, this is the sort of click-to-kill game you can pick up and get playing in about five 
 minutes. But even though it has been designed for action fans who always select their RPGs from 
 the light menu, the confined, island-style maps and rock-paper-scissors interaction of the character 
 classes can add a lot of intensity and strategy to matches. Teamwork is vital, as characters left 
 on their own can get shredded. You need to think of teams as you would standard D&amp; D parties, 
 which means that a witch needs the brute force of the melee-fighting reaver on her side, a templar 
 requires healing and buffing skills whenever sending a seeker or a shadowblade assassin into battle, 
 and so on. Forget this basic rule and you can get into trouble fast. You really don't want to leave 
 a templar alone against a reaver, especially when he gets his whirlwind attack going.  

  Unfortunately, the appeal of a multiplayer game like this is almost totally dependent on drawing 
 a good crowd of players, and so far Dawnspire has failed to attract many fans. There are three 
 servers running the retail game at present, and each is devoid of other human players much of the 
 time. Occasionally, you'll run into a reasonably full complement of 14 to 16 players who know what 
 they're doing, and then all of the game's potential comes out. Intense matches are always the result 
 when you get into a good game with smart allies who know the maps and realize the importance of 
 working as part of a team. But it's more likely that you'll encounter just one or two human players 
 and that the rest of the playing field will be filled out with bots. At times like that, you might 
 as well not even bother logging on to a server and just play the game in the all-bot practice mode. 

  But you might not want to do even that, because the bots that Silent Grove subs in as teammates 
 and opponents have a lot of problems. Enemy bots are far more powerful than beginner human characters 
 (apparently due to rapid, smart use of special character abilities) , which gives you little chance 
 of survival when first logging in. You can fire up the game and immediately get murdered over and 
 over again by these killer bots mere steps from spawn points. Playing against human opponents can 
 be equally brutal. Since there is no introductory server, you often wind up facing experienced 
 opponents who can carve you up just as efficiently as the bots until you get your feet wet. Given 
 this questionable way of introducing new players to the game, it's not a surprise that bots seem 
 to outnumber humans 10 to 1. The game really needs separate servers for beginners and veterans 
 so that first-timers aren't thrown right into the deep end.  

  AI is perhaps an even bigger issue, at least where your bot allies are concerned. While computer-controlled 
 teammates display some cunning when it comes to going after relics and capturing outposts, they 
 work solo for the most part and often leave you to fight multiple foes (and inevitably get ripped 
 apart) . Since coordinated teamwork is necessary to break through enemy defenses and steal relics, 
 or to defend relics that you've already stolen from enemy assault, matches can break down into 
 senseless melees.  

  There aren't any significant visual treats to convince players that there is much point weathering 
 the robotic onslaught or dealing with the subpar AI. Dawnspire is underdeveloped graphically, so 
 while maps are basically attractive and quick moving, with very little lag to interfere with the 
 hacking and slashing, they're rather banal in that they consist of little but narrow pathways through 
 volcanic mountains or tropical island paradises with mirrored ponds. Only one map breaks this pattern, 
 and it's just an open-air temple of sorts again filled with constricted walkways and lots of choke 
 points. Maps are sized appropriately, at least, so you don't have to go very far to get into a 
 fight or snatch a relic. Because of this, matches are typically so tight and so filled with crazed 
 combat and spellcasting that you don't have time to notice the blandness of the scenery. And at 
 least the spells are suitably catastrophic, with lots of bombastic pyrotechnics (despite an unfortunate 
 reliance on the "glyphs on the ground" special effect that D&amp; D games have done to death in 
 recent years) .  

          Capturing an outpost for the dark team.     

  Audio is a real high point here. The atmospheric musical score pulls together all sorts of influences, 
 from plucky medieval guitars to choral odes. Tunes are also nicely varied depending on the map, 
 so you never get tired of a song. This is one game where you'll crank up the music, not dial it 
 down or switch it off. Battle effects are also well realized. All of the usual clashes of swords 
 and triumphant shouts and wounded groans are present, along with some extra touches like creepy 
 chuckling and sinister hissing.  

  Even though Dawnspire has its good aspects, the AI problems do a lot to sink it. Granted, if more 
 people were to actually start playing this thing, the AI might be less of a problem, but right 
 now that's just not the case. The oft-deserted servers make engaging in the game's more intense 
 player battles an awfully tough assignment, which ultimately robs the game of its most appealing 
 aspect. Keep an eye on this one to see how and if it evolves, but right now, it's just not quite 
 worth investing in.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
