-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dawn of Magic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/dawnofmagic/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great magical variety.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Buggy to the point of being unplayable.
 Derivative plot, quests, and map structure.
 Limited and bizarre character choices.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 5.2, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 4.8, 318 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: 1C
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Buggy, broken, and entirely unoriginal, Dawn of Magic is one horrible action-oriented role-playing 
 game. 

  All of the extra hocus-pocus in Dawn of Magic should have made it a cut above the typical Diablo 
 clone. While the standard action role-playing game contents itself with nonstop hacking and slashing, 
 this one from developer Sky Fallen Entertainment gives you all of that twitchy-fingered goodness 
 along with a dozen magical schools that let you raise the dead, launch fireballs, and even suck 
 the blood out of enemies. But all of this Harry Potter stuff is worthless in the end because horrific 
 bugs make the game virtually unplayable and the lackluster game design will have you groaning or 
 yawning before you've cut down a dozen monsters.  

           At least you get the usual RPG light show, courtesy of some pretty nifty spell effects. 

  Getting right into the meat of the Dawn of Magic experience, the only real standout aspect of the 
 game is its magic system, which features what appears to be a whopping 12 schools of magic. With 
 that said, there are only eight spells in each school, so don't get too excited over the variety 
 on offer here. Having 96 different ways to say abracadabra is nothing to sneeze at, though this 
 number is fairly comparable to other RPGs. Also, the schools and their spells are wholly derivative 
 of D&amp; D spellcasting. If you've ever played as a magic user or cleric in another fantasy RPG 
 game, chances are pretty good that you'll be familiar with the spells in schools, such as fire 
 magic, blessing magic, light magic, and summoning magic. Spell names may be different here, but 
 you're still casting the same old fireballs, lightning bolts, cones of cold, and blessings that 
 have been lighting up the Forgotten Realms for what feels like forever.  

  Gameplay itself sticks close to the action RPG formula. Too close, actually. The worn-out story 
 deals with a god named Modo that has decided to destroy the Earth to take revenge on his fellow 
 immortals for sentencing him to spend a lifetime as a mortal man. Your goal is of course to halt 
 these evil machinations, which you do by slashing and spellcasting your way through repetitive 
 kill, kill, kill quests faced with thousands of creepy crawlies. But nothing is noteworthy about 
 the monsters here save their numbers because you'll battle such stock RPG beasts as giant insects, 
 wolves, various undead, big lizards, and goblins. Every level in the game is overrun by these creatures, 
 however, so these generic goons pose a real threat. You should expect to die early and often, as 
 well as face opposition so strong that the only way to deal with it involves running as fast as 
 you can. In many sections of the game, stopping to fight is almost suicidal.  

  In addition to the crazy numbers of enemies here, bad guys are universally speedy and tend to jump 
 around like frogs on hot plates. You have to keep moving constantly to keep up with them as they 
 tear around in a seemingly random fashion and to avoid getting hammered by ranged attacks. Also, 
 because you're a mage, you can't really stand up to heavy melee combat. This necessitates a lot 
 of retreating from enemy mobs, only pausing briefly to launch a fireball or some similar form of 
 magical artillery back at your pursuers. But you can't just run wild. Wandering too far afield 
 can land you in hot water because you can readily race into a new pack of monsters while you're 
 still busy ducking and diving through a fight with an old pack of monsters. All in all, combat 
 is frustratingly rushed and pressured, giving you barely a moment to catch your breath amidst the 
 chaos of it all.  

  Player character features are similarly irritating for their dearth of choices. You choose from 
 four stock adventurers at the start of the game and can only customize them by typing in a name 
 then selecting an alignment from the usual good, neutral, or evil. Even worse, these options are 
 some of the worst ever featured in an RPG. You're stuck with a Harry Potter clone in the Awkward 
 Student; a carnival mystic in the Weird Gypsy; a Friar Tuck rip-off in the Fat Friar; and a  
 in the Baker's Wife. Not that there's much separating the characters aside from the way that they 
 look. The five core stats (strength, intellect, energy -- you know the drill) for each vary only 
 marginally, so it's not as if you're picking between hulking brawlers and wimpy bookworms. There's 
 also just a handful of character skills -- all utter blandness -- such as weapon mastery and crafting. 

  Visuals add a layer of confusion to everything. Art design is poorly handled from a technical standpoint 
 because of such clumsy elements as big text blurbs illustrating conversations. Towns filled with 
 non-player characters get so muddled up with these word balloons that you can barely see the scenery, 
 let alone make your way around. Maps are just as tough to read because of the same excess clutter. 
 You might as well keep the minimap switched off entirely because the huge text denoting the location 
 of NPCs and boss enemies gets all jumbled together into an alphabet soup. Only blowing up the map 
 to full size clears the picture, but this full-screen view of course makes it impossible to see 
 the action.  

  In-game graphics are just as bewildering because of a reliance on the surreal. Glowing rocks fill 
 caverns, alien plants sprout up all over the terrain, and you even morph into strange shapes depending 
 on what school of magic you favor. Spells are fired off to the accompaniment of some groovy pyrotechnics, 
 but the strange glows actually make everything appear even more bizarre. At times, it almost seems 
 like you're hacking and slashing your way through an Hieronymus Bosch painting. But don't get excited. 
 As cool as this sounds, the weirdness isn't pulled off very well and the whole surreal idea doesn't 
 mesh with core gameplay pulled straight from a traditional medieval fantasy game.  

           As usual in an RPG, every successful attack generates an explosion of numbers. But it 
 sort of takes away from the immediacy of combat when you can practically see a 20-sided die being 
 rolled on the screen.      

  Audio is equally bewildering. Dialogue darts around so much (probably because of poor translation 
 from the original Russian) that you're always asking yourself what just happened. At least the 
 quest log keeps track of things. You always know what you need to do, even if the logic behind 
 your actions is missing in action.  

  Lastly, there are the bugs. Crashes to the desktop come so fast and furiously that the game can 
 be all but unplayable. We tried all sorts of different video drivers and went so far as to pull 
 out the installed audio card in the test system to go back to onboard sound to try stabilizing 
 the game but had no luck with any approaches. Making the situation even worse, the save system 
 only allows you to store your progress when exiting the game or at rare checkpoints. So you can't 
 even try to compensate for the random crashes by hitting a quick-save button every couple of minutes. 
 The only saving grace here is that not everybody seems to be having serious technical problems 
 with the game. Judging by forum posts, it's hit and miss as to whether or not you'll encounter 
 problems. But when you do, these issues seem to be severe enough to cause crashes or prevent you 
 from loading the game at all. So, caveat emptor and all that.  

  Dawn of Magic also features a multiplayer mode that we haven't gotten into, but really, haven't 
 you endured enough suffering already? If you happen to see this game on a store shelf, just back 
 away slowly.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Alpha_Spirit
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 13, 2009 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Good :
  Intro, good for the first hours
  
  Bad:
  HUD, bad storyline, not too much characters to choose from, quests, easy difficulty,...
  
  _________________
 
  
  Graphic 2 / 10
  Graphics are not bad , but not up-to-date. The visual effects make it harder to pick up objects 
 from the ground. Spell effects are not bad, but they could be a lot better!
  
  _________________
  
  Gameplay 1 / 10
  A very difficult HUD. You cant edit your characters 
 appearance, so you have to choose from a selection of them and even those characters are bad. Quests 
 are really boring. Hard to pick up items from the ground, because you can hardly see them. Map is 
 also hard and its hard to get anywhere.
  
  ________________
  
  Overall 3 / 10
  Dawn of Magic is the most disappointing RPG ever created. If you want to play a better RPG then 
 rather choose Oblivion, Fallout3 or if you dont have a great computer then choose FATE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oncus
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea why the game has been rated so poorly. So tired of hearing the game is a another 
 Diablo clone just because it has some shared features with it (apart from the camera I don't see 
 a lot more shared features) . This games can bring you a lot of variety because it can offer different 
 spell combos. Some spells can add a secondary effect to your cast spell. So you can cast fireball 
 that on hit casts lightning. It may get repetitive, but at higher levels combat is very action 
 demanding so it doesn't get boring. There's a lot of spell combos to be had in this game and making 
 your own combos is fun. The downside is that there is no keyboard shortcut (for some reason) for 
 switching between spell tollbars so it's harder to perform those spell combos. (ok it does have, 
 but it's not a one button shortcut so it's still difficult to switch between spell bars) This isn't 
 the first time that gamespot underrates a game. Just try the demo (it offers a lot of gameplay) 
 and see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bernardofd
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Medieval RPGs will ever have their places in my heart, specially those with outstanding magic skills 
 and presentation, but Dawn of Magic can go directly to the forgotten pages of Oblivion (pun intended) .
 
  
  First things first, the intro movies is good, although the CG pre=rendered cutscenes seems reminscent 
 from a Diablo II movie (not that Diablo's weren't good, they were awsome, but a little too outdated) , 
 it does well in creating an atmosphere and a context to the game.
  
  But the in-game is awful. For a game from 2007 with graphics fairly similar to Neverwinter Nights 
 (a 2002 title) is not a good start, the magics choice can be a little overwhelming, the quest system 
 is way too simple, the trading is obnoxious (for you have to begin a conversation with a trader 
 at least to times to get to tge trading) . One note to the trade, the game doesn't stop while you're 
 trading, so if you're in a time limited quest, do not waste your time trading, even when it's needed 
 (no money, or potions, or overcumbered) . A way too realistic touch to this none-at-all realistic 
 game.
  
  The inventory system is confusing. Although items can be splitted into tabs of common characteristcs 
 (like, weapons, armor, scrolls, etc...) They're displayed in a horizontal row and no info at all 
 (unless you highlight one item with the mouse pointer)
  
  Hence, spare your gaming time staying clear of this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleWeasel
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  Good-looking game, but the end boss is very tough depending what spells you've grown, making it 
 a very frustrating long game to replay with better spells just to topple the boss (MODO) .
  
  Really liked this visually (hence the 5 rating) - character morphing based on your actions 
 in the game as you level up was a good add-on. I've played the gypsy and the scholar, both pretty 
 similar make-up but the movement took a while to master. Also, the level ups by EXP don't happen 
 quick enough which limits having a fully spelled up/complete character. I like to do 'the lot' 
 in a game and this doesn't allow for that and replaying to experience all spells would be too much. 
 
  
  I wouldn't wish to be spoon-fed but the manual should set out mandatory character areas to build 
 up otherwise you'll have a tough time with killing MODO  perhaps the developers could post up 
 an ideal character path and you could then choose to specialise in areas you want to  depends 
 if they want RPG fans to buy the game or not, and develop series.
  
  The side quests are ok, but the re-do quests for EXP or Spell points don't always give you the 
 EXP or Spell point you earned, and don't have much replay value after the second go, making for 
 dull grinding play to level up.
  
  As you'll see there can't be many fans out there, not enough to write walkthroughs or post tips 
 up - so with so many great games to choose from you might wish to miss this one.
  
  Maybe I'll return to this, whilst waiting for Gothic 4, if I finish The Witcher early.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubeyou
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  Good intro, i like the movies. Inside the school, I broke the chair, table, and anything I saw, 
 then the students chasing me and hit me. I death and revive. I click the skill bar and there is 
 a lot of attractive skills icon. This situation i really enjoyable. I like it. Then I go out of 
 the world, the bads come. The monster just like normal online games that i played long time ago. 
 I totally frustrated. The game just like diablo, nothing is new except the skill is different. 
 The golds and items that monsters dropped is hard to pick it up. The level of character also not 
 easies to increase. Playing single player and needed to farm and build in long times, no wonder 
 all player said boring. A place to another place required long times for walking. I would recommend 
 gamer just try the demo set, don't buy the orginal. It is really worthless, but if you first time 
 play RPG games, you can have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  What is wrong with this game you ask? Hm. How about... everything?
  
  The distorted cracking sound everywhere within the game make it an unpleasant experience alone, 
 but there is more... the poorly designed and confusing in-game interface makes it worse.
  
  The graphics are atrocious (with everything maxed out) - it's so colorful it hurts my eyes. Difficult 
 to distinguish the enemies between all those plants of all colors. The level of detail is great, 
 but the environment design is terrible - weird colors and an abundance of plants and trees.
  
  As for the gameplay, you probably won't be able to finish the first quest since the monsters 
 are not easy to kill, and the NPC's are invincible and do a lot more damage than you with a variety 
 of spells might I add. Oh yes, I had a mighty broom as a weapon.
  
  Let me tell you what I did next: The NPC kept following me and hurting me and since he couldn't 
 be killed I ran away; he followed me so I ran inside the starting building, guessing it was a safe 
 place to be as customary to the RPG genre. But guess what, it's not! He followed me inside, killed 
 me and I spawned right next to him. :)
  
  Another weird thing would be that the enemies' life bar fills up instead of emptying. Odd design.
 
  
  I didn't like it, my friends didn't like it, chances are you won't like it either. What is there 
 to like, even the Gamespot reviewers gave it only a 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skarn
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I have enjoyed playing the game so far with the exception of the annoying Looter monsters that 
 I have to track down because I can't stun them. The magic system is pretty good although it's pure 
 dumb luck that you find someone with with the scrolls that you need to level up your magic. 
  
  Excellent graphics and spell effects. 
  
  Some quests are merely "kill 10 Termites" but 
 others are more complex and require you to travel to a few areas before you find the widget that 
 you are looking for. You HAVE to do the side quests to get the extra stat points to level up your 
 character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aminal_basic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I guess I'm one of the Lucky ones ,I had few crashes. Outdated it may be , but the game was fun!!!
 
  The game does have a few graphic and audio problems but no worse than 95 percent of the games 
 they are rushing out long before they are really finished now-a-days. Everything needs patches 
 it seems!
  I wish I had a better variety to choose from but the gypsy seemed my best bet. I played it and 
 the screens aren't half as bad as the big reviewer says. It is a hard game but if you have any 
 game savvy you learn quick what to do and how to do it. I'm tired of games that make surviving 
 too easy. I want to have to think about it . You can die easily especially early on but by the 
 time I was half way through the game I was rarely dieing at all and when I did it was my own fault. 
 
  Being a magic user was great and there is so many to choose from. All of them effective if used 
 properly. Unlike Diablo where only 1 or 2 have any real effect especially on bosses. 
  Dawn of magic is a big game, It takes quite a long time to finish and you have to stay on your 
 toes. even the weakest of monsters can kill you if you are not careful. It has an autosave that 
 works when you change areas so it isn't too bad if you are careful. Like I stated before I had 
 very few crashes and I really did enjoy this game. It is one I would recommend if you just want 
 to have some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakkati
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, what the gamespot reviewer said was true and thats exactly it. however, i found 
 myself enjoyng this game.. i don't know why but it has something that gets you like it.. it's like 
 an RPG game, combined with really hard difficulty, making it like a poor rpg-action game when in 
 fight. but yes most of the time, you'll have to run away from monsters because they gather up altogether 
 spotaneously.. however when you keep enough distance they go back at their previous positions. 
 You just have to walk really slowly and be careful and stuff like that or u may choose to charge 
 in and run in circles of the map till you die (this has absolutely nothing to do with stealth) .. 
 the gameplay of this game doesn't really give you much choice when you charge in many enemies, 
 since you will find it really hard to defeat them all with just the use of the mouse, a few buttons 
 and an annoying poor control of the landscape camera... but its possible however. Yes there is 
 a limited variety of spells in each school, yet not adequate but I found them sufficient enough. 
 
  
  I personally did not like the music and sounds of this game.. i found them not atmospheric enough 
 to please my needs. Some sounds remind me of the old japaneese video games as well as the music. 
 The game's sounds also take off some part of the seriousness of the game i. e. they make it sound 
 like a funny entertaining game for kids, with funky sounds like BOING! and BLUB! when you pick 
 up potions. :)
  
  The game is a complete clone not unique and nothing new.. but yet its a different game and the 
 difference is noticeable. People who like old school hard action games as well as old school RPGs 
 like diablo 1 may find some merit within this game. Some old nintendo games were really hard and 
 their difficulty was solely dependant on their poor gameplay. This game has something similar to 
 it.
  
  Anyhow. I like it and all i want to say is that it is possible for someone to like this game no 
 matter how ugly it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  The thing about RPG games is that you cant be absolutely sure about weather a game is good or not 
 until you've played it for at least 5-6 hours. But the good thing about Dawn Of Magic is that you 
 get a pretty good idea of how bad the game is very early on. And thats probably the only good thing 
 i can say about this game.
  
  With mediocre graphics, an average interface and an absolutely horrible game play experience its 
 not too hard to think as to why this game is not rated too highly. When compared to its competitors 
 Dawn of War falls behind heavily on all categories. 
  
  With the amount of RPG games around you're better off playing something else than Dawn Of War.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sardo_numspa
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to waste too much time and space getting into mundane details. Most of what I have 
 to say has invariably been said in previous posts/reviews, so I'm going to keep it short and to 
 the point. I wasn't expecting much from this game (lack of critical acclaim, barren forum (s) etc.) 
 but seeing as how I have a penchant for Diabloesqe action RPG's I figured I'd give it a try. Well, 
 I'm glad I did. If you are looking for a deep story driven RPG in the vein of Baldurs gate or Torment 
 you should most definitely look elsewhere. If however you have a hankering for a hack n slash with 
 an intriguing magic system and a phenomenal sense of style then this game is for you. Frankly I'm 
 surprised that this game hasn't garnered more positive attention. They weren't looking to reinvent 
 the wheel so to speak (although this game does have some deliciously unique aspects) , they set 
 out to make a fun hack n slash - a game that keeps you glued to the screen in anticipation of that 
 next level and/or loot drop, and to this end they have most certainly succeeded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blablablamaster
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  The main advantage of this game comparing to other same genres is skill system. There is 12 magic 
 school and you can get a good feeling of them in just the first gaming hour. Most of them are quite 
 useful. In fact you will probably use skills from 4 or 5 schools. The inventory screen is simple 
 and clean. You can put pretty much all the loot you find.
  
  The item enchancement is probably the top of this game. Equipement can be enchanced with material 
 and runes. The runes give bonuses and if you arrange them in proper manner you get rune word which 
 grants even a bigger bonus.
  
  It has one of the best alchemy sistem i have yet to see. you can transmute anyting, items, potions, 
 scrolls. The camera can be akward at first and i recommend you to have a mouse with a weel. with 
 it you can easily rotate the view which will make the game much more enjoyable.
  
  The difficulty of combat depends on your skills set. but it is not easy. Also if you manage to 
 kill many monster at the same time you get an bar (similar to adrenaline bar) which enables you 
 to get more and more xp from killing monsters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  They say that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, and nowhere is that more apparent than 
 within the Action-RPG genre on the PC. Given the number of titles currently attempting to crib 
 wholeheartedly from the Diablo playbook, you'd have thought that at least one of the pretenders 
 to the throne might have broken through the barrier by now into an equally-revered state. Whilst 
 Titan Quest has run Diablo close on a couple of occasions, on current form it'll be a while before 
 anybody manages to reach the top of the pile. Is that a testament to the undisputed brilliance 
 of the Blizzard-developed masterpiece or just a lack of strong ingenuity within the genre? A little 
 bit of both most likely.
  
  Developed by Russian-based company 'Sky Fallen'; Dawn of Magic sticks firmly to the tried-and-tested 
 traits of the point and click Action-RPG genre, whilst at the same time attempting to bring a fresh 
 coat of paint and a little bit of innovation to the table. The focus is heavily on Magic as a primary 
 offensive and defensive force, which lends the game a somewhat unique air if nothing else.
  
  Delving into the single-player meat of the game, character creation is initially somewhat limited, 
 with a choice of only four exotic personalities: The Awkward Scholar, Weird Gypsy, Stout Friar 
 and... the Baker's wife. (Did I mention it was a bit odd?) Each one is somewhat uniquely designed 
 and different to most of the staple archetypes on display in other titles, but underneath the veneer 
 of ingenuity the player attributes tell the same old story. Individual characters are suited in 
 varying degrees to hand or magical combat, affecting whether you wish to play the game as a tank 
 or a mage; and outside of a good or evil player alignment, that's as deep as the creation system 
 gets. For now.
  
  The storyline is initially set via a lavishly-produced introductory cutscene, depicting the fall 
 from grace of an evil and fiery character known as Modo. Shunned from the magical realm he inhabits, 
 Modo is cast to earth to live out the rest of his days as a mortal, the ultimate punishment for 
 those with the power of a god. Of course Modo is none too pleased at his plight and promptly sets 
 about attempting to regain his lost skills, threatening to destroy the world in the process. As 
 a freshly graduated scholar of a magical school, your ultimate choice here is whether to attempt 
 to halt Modo or to join in the destructive rampage yourself.
  
  The focus on a dual-storyline approach to the game design is definitely one of Dawn of Magic's 
 strengths, and is generally played up fairly well throughout. You initially align your character 
 to good, evil or neutral, and this affects the manner in which NPC characters react to you throughout 
 the game. Whilst this isn't a truly unique feature, and nowhere near the subtlety of a Bioware 
 title, it's nevertheless welcome in a genre that so often funnels the player from one experience 
 to the next without a thought of any alternative moralistic paths. Given the vast array of Magical 
 abilities on offer, being bad is an attractive proposition.
  
  Once the introductory magic school lessons are over, the game throws you into a vast world with 
 storyline and side-quests flowing thick and fast, and some expansive environments to explore. The 
 first town you encounter is larger than some of the most overbearing maps in other titles, and 
 initially the scale of the world can be a little overwhelming, if definitely commendable.
  
  Gameplay is largely traditional with character levelling, skill development and item crafting 
 all handled with the minimum of ingenuity. The on-screen interface is par for the course, with 
 a couple of hotbars at the bottom of the screen for frequently used skills and spells, along with 
 all of the usual keyboard shortcuts. Anybody with any experience in a modern MMO or Action RPG 
 in the last year or two will feel at home within minutes. Whether that's a strength or a weakness 
 is subject to a fair amount of debate of course.
  
  That's not to say everything is completely bland however. One of the more innovative elements of 
 design shows up within the first few hours of play, and continues to draw praise throughout the 
 experience. Your characters visual appearance morphs and changes throughout the game, but not according 
 to any pre-set path or player-imbued items. Using a combination of different spells or performing 
 good and evil deeds effectively morphs and styles various body parts, changing your characters 
 appearance fairly drastically. The end result of this process turns into a composite aesthetic 
 based on your in-game playing habits and traits.
  
  Each school of magic also affects the player in the same manner, with unique visual aspects applied 
 according to your alignments and prowess. It's a satisfying approach to character customisation, 
 and explains the initial sparsity of options. Playing the game purely to morph your avatar into 
 something wickedly nasty-looking becomes a game unto itself.
  
  Unfortunately for all the good design touches, Dawn of Magic is let down by a combat system firmly 
 entrenched in the past. The game throws large amounts of enemies at the player throughout the campaign, 
 and gameplay generally degenerates into frantic clicking around the nearest group of foes. With 
 the vast offensive magical arsenal at your disposal, it's a shame that a more measured and tactical 
 approach wasn't used, as you get the feeling this is where the title could have excelled itself. 
 Of course that's a criticism that can be levelled at the genre as a whole, but is valid nonetheless.
 
  
  The atmosphere of the game can also be called into question. Whilst the developer has attempted 
 to tie everything into a gothic-inspired fairytale universe, the lack of aesthetic cohesion throughout 
 undermines any semblance of a strong visual footprint or a unique style. It all looks pretty, and 
 it'll run well on even relatively low-spec machines, but given the old engine and the protracted 
 release schedule to get this localised for the west, nothing really stands out visually. Voice 
 acting is another casualty for this release, with a lack of personality in both dialogue and performance. 
 It's almost worth turning the speech volume down and the subtitles on.
  
  Dawn of Magic contains enough deep content and a pleasing enough approach to the genre to recommend 
 a purchase, but only if you know what's in-store and don't mind the incessantly repetitive nature 
 of the combat. There are definitely worse examples of the genre to find, but many better ones also. 
 Yet another also-ran to the Diablo throne then. Add it to the pile, somebody may sweep them away 
 eventually.
  
  Note: This text was originally written by myself and published over at strategyinformer. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALIAN9999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  I have been playing for over 6 hours and i can truly say its been fun, the game is hard at the 
 start but well worth playing.
  
  The spell system is great, you combine spells together to get even more powerful spells, the enemies 
 are numerous, great abilities to do and worth the cash if you can get past the beginning.
  
  I would say give this game a chance, its all about magic, the ability to chose good evil and 
 neutral, also the amount of crafting skills and lets not forget my favorite, walking into a village 
 and blowing apart the villagers to bits!
  
  The best part about this game, your char turns into the attribute spells your focusing on, meaning 
 if your a pure fire mage, your char will slowly turn into a fire demon, your stats will also be 
 demonic.
  
  I admit the camera angles are bad, i had to configure the game controls and use the cursor for 
 the camera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eldicon
Rating: 2.7
Date: May 19, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This game had potential considering it's unique take on characters, and the intro video is wicked 
 but I say had because it sure doesn't have any potential for real. The demo is one of the worst 
 I have ever played. Don't try this or buy it if you are over the age of 15 as it's a waste of your 
 time. It's doubful that you will even get beyond the first quest where you have to use the crap 
 controls and awkward camera angles to outrun 10 NPC's with better firepower than you in a wildgoose 
 chase of who kills 10 spiders first. Bollocks, entertainment factor of 0.
  
  Don't believe me? Try the demo, you will delete it without a doubt in your mind after the frst 
 time you play it. As the review says, the best thing you can do in it is destroy some furniture 
 inside the ripoff harry potter school of magic or whatever it wants to be, and I would rather play 
 Pong as it's about as complex as this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lenni19mle
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 8, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  With the use of certain magic your character changes. e. g. if your a fire user then your body will 
 slowly turn to fire giving you added fire damage and resistance. a lot of added extra's shame about 
 the graphics and repeated missions (mostly similar to the one before) .
  
  There is a lot of experiance to be collected your levels are in 4 sections e. g you can get 4 points 
 of experiance per level in either magic or your stats, mainly depending on which missions you take.
 
  
  The fact that there are so many different types of magic available and that you can mix different 
 magic together like fire and lightning to give a fireball with an added electric after-effect is 
 quite good.
  
  The main problem is levelling up your magic as you need the certain scroll to level up e. g fireball 
 to be able to add skill points to that magic.
  
  worth checking out and finding out for yourself 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
