-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Day of Defeat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/dayofdefeat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 22, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.9, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,515 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Valve Software
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     May 6, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its flaws, Day of Defeat offers unusually intense gameplay with excellent pacing, good weapons, 
 and a really fine combination of all-out action and teamwork. 

  Game modifications, or "mods," are often developed by amateur mod makers in their spare time and 
 given away for free. Some mods have become so popular that they've encouraged publishers to swoop 
 in and release them as retail products, like the team-based game Counter-Strike. And now another 
 popular Half-Life mod, Day of Defeat, has gone retail. This World War II shooter has been tweaked 
 and polished with the help of Half-Life developer Valve for release as a stand-alone game, and 
 with new maps, improved graphics, and the ability to play as British troops for the first time, 
 this already great mod is now even better.  

          This brave British soldier never made it to the front lines.     

  Of course, you might 
 wonder why you should pay for a game that's still available for free on the Internet. Aside from 
 saving you the trouble of downloading huge files or having to purchase the original Half-Life, 
 the retail version of Day of Defeat features exclusive content, such as new maps, though Activision 
 plans to release this new content to the public at a later date. Yet how can a game that started 
 off as an independent mod possibly compete with big-budget shooters that offer comparable team-based 
 gameplay, such as Battlefield 1942?  

  As it turns out, Day of Defeat offers its own exciting brand of action. This online-only team game 
 is set in Western Europe around 1944, pitting the Americans or British (depending on the map) against 
 the Germans. The game focuses solely on infantry combat, so you won't get to operate vehicles like 
 you do in Battlefield 1942, but Day of Defeat's combat is much more gritty and intense. It's true 
 that Day of Defeat isn't a hard-core simulation of WWII battles, but it does strike an excellent 
 balance between blazing-guns action and rewarding teamwork. It also offers superbly paced gameplay -- the 
 speed and way in which your characters move seem just right, and the respawn system ensures that 
 when you die, you usually sit out for only 5 or 10 seconds before rejoining the fray.  

          A fresh wave of reinforcements heads into battle.     

  Day of Defeat also has a few 
 realistic gameplay features that help set it apart. For instance, you can crouch or go prone, though 
 you can't lean around corners like in many other shooters. Machine gunners need to stop and deploy 
 bipods to fire with any accuracy, and all players enjoy more accuracy if they shoot while standing 
 still. Also, players have a stamina bar that is depleted by sprinting or jumping, which encourages 
 you to act more realistically, rather than continually jumping around like in many other shooters. 
 For that matter, in Day of Defeat you can't shoot while sprinting or jumping, since you automatically 
 lower your weapon to your side in the process. However, some players can still abuse certain aspects 
 of the gameplay by using unrealistic tactics like camping spawn points -- sitting and waiting at 
 an enemy respawn point and gunning down any new enemies who appear there. Yet what's really impressive 
 about the game is just how often real-world tactics like overwatch or heavy suppressing fire from 
 machine guns play convincing, realistic, and tactically important roles in the game.  

  Day of Defeat has a player class system, though which class you're currently playing as is determined 
 by which weapons you're carrying, not by any special gear or abilities. This is a bit disappointing, 
 since a true class-based system might have provided even greater tactical depth and diversity. 
 The American, British, and German teams all get a number of different classes, but they all roughly 
 fall into four general groups: snipers, machine gunners, close-quarters troops armed with submachine 
 guns or carbines, and general-purpose infantry armed with rifles. This scheme ensures a good balance 
 between the teams. Unfortunately, the British soldiers get only four classes, and hence four main 
 weapons, compared with seven classes (not including special paratroops) and primary weapons for 
 both the Americans and Germans.     

  Day of Defeat offers two basic gameplay modes. On territorial control maps, each team fights to 
 capture a number of flags by running over them or temporarily occupying an area near them. This 
 mode can create some epic, back-and-forth struggles -- in fact, some players may find that these 
 battles go back and forth for too long. Capture/destroy maps offer a variety of timed offensive 
 and defensive goals that vary by map. Axis troops, for example, might need to destroy two British 
 tanks before time runs out, while also preventing the British from grabbing German battle plans 
 from a downed glider. Both of these modes can be great fun, though the game could definitely have 
 benefited from more modes, particularly since it is already limited by its narrow geographical 
 and temporal scope, lack of vehicles, and small selection of playable nationalities.  

          Taking cover behind some rubble.     

  Day of Defeat ships with 15 reasonably diverse 
 maps that will have you fighting through bombed-out cities, battling through quaint rural villages, 
 and storming the Normandy beaches on D-Day while mortar rounds explode all around you. The objective-based 
 maps can be convoluted, but the maps are well designed overall. They offer all kinds of tactical 
 opportunities, with alternate routes and numerous places to take cover or ambush enemies. Of course, 
 that means there are countless places from which you yourself can be ambushed, and that, more than 
 anything, is what makes teamwork important in Day of Defeat. If you don't cover your buddies' backs 
 in these deadly environments, you probably won't survive too long yourself.  

  While the game's maps certainly have interesting layouts, they aren't always especially attractive. 
 Though the designers clearly put a lot of work into the game, Day of Defeat is powered by the original 
 Half-Life engine, so it can't really compete with more-recent graphics engines. Even so, some of 
 the maps feature interesting little details, like rain-filled bomb craters in the middle of a street 
 or a cow casually grazing near German fortifications in Normandy. The game's character models and 
 a few other graphics features have been improved or added for this release, but the visuals just 
 don't draw you into the action quite as well as they do in more technically advanced shooters. 

          The burning buildings of a war zone.     

  At least Day of Defeat sounds good. The game has vivid weapon effects and plenty of preset audio 
 commands in the appropriate languages. With the right hardware, you can also use live voice chat 
 to communicate with teammates, though the voice chat currently has technical problems that frequently 
 cause it to be so garbled as to be nearly useless. The game's visual presentation may not be as 
 immersive as that of other first-person shooters, but the ambient sounds of gunfire and explosions 
 compensate for that shortcoming to a certain degree.  

  For all its strengths, Day of Defeat really could have used more polishing before being released 
 as a retail game. It still has a variety of bugs, some of its weapons could probably use some tweaking, 
 and its network code suffers from intermittent lag and frequent connection problems. Yet despite 
 its flaws, Day of Defeat offers unusually intense gameplay with excellent pacing, good weapons, 
 and a really fine combination of all-out action and teamwork.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: matthew254
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Can you believe that they are still over 1000 servers constantly running this game on Steam? It's 
 amazing - seeing as how old it is.
  
  I love this game. It is the most unique multiplayer experience of any game I've played. It has 
 a distinct feel to it that I find more enjoyable than Counterstrike. The online community is friendly 
 and there is much less cheating, hacking, and 5 year olds.
  
  Also, what makes this game great is the maps. Holy crap there are some serious gems online. It 
 amazes me that there are still not many games that have the stability, balance, and level design 
 that DOD has to offer.
  
  It has low PC requirements but I have to tell you - it looks great on my dual core 8800 nvidia 
 machine.
  
  Even though there is a SOURCE upgrade version of this game, I find the original game superior in 
 terms of bullet reg, flow, and overall gameplay. SOURCE does look better, but that's about it. 
 Stick with the classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NunzioT
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The graphics on this game still hold well for a game that came out in May of 2003
  
  It's highly addictive, this game is so realistic it doesn't take much shots to get killed or do 
 the killing, some machine guns over heat which is what happens lots in war. Patience in this game 
 is very much needed rushing is really not an option for players unless you know where to hide and 
 where to go.
  
  It's awesome how you can go prone, position your Machine Gun so you don't get recoil and go off 
 shooting in the wrong directions.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -R4zi3l-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game was mad fun at timesm, just like counter strike but without buying weapons. instent 
 it mixed in a battlefield series thingy in. where you pick your weapon class. the graphics are 
 just like any 1.6 valve game. This game is very fast paced at times it can feel like unreal tournament. 
 expect to die alot since you do run into a nade spam and a turret man alot. but its also fun to 
 camp with your rail gun and give covering fire. and the D-Day map in this game is very fun to play, 
 along with that their are unique objectives to each map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Day of Defeat for the PC is a World War Two multiplayer mod of Counter Strike, that is a lot of 
 fun. There are lots of levels and even though the overall gameplay is just capture checkpoints 
 just like in Battlefield 1942 this game has something that Battlefield does not, and that is a 
 real sense of realism. It maybe the recoil that the weapons have or the envirmonets, this game 
 just seems to work better than Battlefield. The graphics are kind of bland, but they do a good 
 job making them look somewhat like the envirmoents look like. There are tons of places to go and 
 take cover and just like in counter strike after you play for a while you really get a hang of 
 it. I will admit though, one thing that I did not like was that you really couldnt look down the 
 sights of any weapon other than the sniper rifle that is about it though, well the British weapons 
 suck, but this is a very fun multiplayer game that is free via steam and a must play if you like 
 World War Two shooters or Counter Strike. Story: There isnt really that much of a story here but 
 the missions are fun and objective based even though this is a complete multiplayer experience. 
 Graphics: They are pretty bland for today's standards, but they had to have blown people away when 
 it first came out. Controls: This game has good controls, if you have played Counter Strike than 
 you know how everything works in this game. Sound: Bullets and your teamates screams, and they sound 
 good. Multiplayer: This game is all multiplayer so if you want to get into multiplayer gaming on 
 the PC this free download is much worth your time. Fun Factor: Do you like to shoot Nazi's??? If 
 your answer is yes than this is your multiplayer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  I thought this would just be another WW2 game with the same missions and same guns and the same 
 vechiles and the same concept and the same units. Well most of that applies to this game but it 
 also has so much more. Imagine BF1942 but on smaller maps and with no vechiles. I know it sounds 
 worse doesn't it but that is not ture. Because the maps r smaller there r intense fire fights and 
 u don't have to walk for miles and then end up getting killed without getting any action. No single 
 player : ( but then this is suppose to be like CS1.6, all internet only. In fact it is at the same 
 lvl as CS1.6. So if u get HL this is a mod/game u don't wanna miss. W8 is this a mod or retail 
 game???? ah who cares all I know is it came with CS when I got it. (PS i hate most WW2 games but 
 this one I DIDN'T) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  At its retail release DoD was doing the same things as other games.. but using a tuned down graphical 
 engine (due to HL1) and offering what CoD and MOHAA already gave us. DoD is not to be overlooked 
 however.. due to the great gameplay to be had. If your itchy for new maps and already went through 
 CoD/UO/MOHAA, PA, SH, BT, and CoD2.. this still must be looked at. I found it very much entertaining 
 and in line with my type of playing style. However the late retail release of this mod does shoot 
 it in the foot , I still enjoy it a ton.
  
  Graphics: HL1.. same type
  
  Sound: Good reproduction, but not as good as MOHAA did with their sounds of the weapons. Gameplay: 
 excellent
  
  Value: its multiplayer.. more replay to be had than a bag of peanuts on the Normandy coast :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classic7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- DoD has a great mix of fast action shooting seen in such games as counter-strike but 
 also brings a mix of slow moving strategic and team based gameplay seen in games like Rainbow Six. 
 Truly a great mix of genres.
  
  Graphics- Compared to the graphics of today it's pretty lackluster but for its day it's amazing. 
 Please don't let the graphics stop you it almost stopped me.
  
  sound- Like other Valve games and MOD's there is no real soundtrack but it has a great theme song 
 and its sound effects are also fantastic. A lot better then counter-strike's.
  
  Value- DoD will last you a life time, likes its older brother counter-strike it almost never gets 
 old. You might need to take a break from playing it but when you come back to it you realize how 
 much you missed it.
  
  Reviewers Tilt- DoD is in my top five favorite games and probably #2 on that same list. It was 
 the first real fps set in World War Two and had the first online experience for the same genre 
 and still holds up. If you want a game thats not as run and gun boring as Call of Duty were everyone 
 thinks there the best and no teamwork is possible then DoD is definitely for you. Thank you Valve 
 for bringing us another classic for the fps genre. Classic7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3king1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome !!! its very funn online shotter. its the same thing as counterstrike but ww2 
 and theres no shop thing were you buy guns there are classes. in this game you cant say theres 
 a difficulty cause it realy depends how your oppenonent is good for e. g a stupid noob to kill is 
 very easy in the other hand a exprenenced player with 300 hours or more play time is well.... very 
 diffucult to kill so you cant say the game is hard medioum just right or easy. anyways this game 
 is old so i suggest day of deafet source which has way beter graphics and beter detail of map but 
 if u have a crappy computer stick with day of deafet. hope you liked my review and it helped you 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabi_Junior
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Day of Defeat is game for life. I never spend so much time on a game like in this one. its addictive 
 and lots of fun. The game as no end, cuz you play on different servers all across the world with 
 diferent maps. I guess that now exist more than 800 maps against the first 10 that came originally 
 with the game.
  Its just a MUST HAVE!!!! Its not casual that the new DOD source as come out i guess 2 years ago, 
 and this DOD still has the most players. Combining good graphics and sounds, with the game most 
 valuable strongness, The Game play. If you like ww2 games, and fps, and online gaming, this is 
 the game for you. History as being made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImpaledDecade
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Day Of Defeat 1.6 for over a year and must say, this is the longest i've ever 
 played a game contiunally. Sure, the game is bloody old, but finding a nice server with a good 
 community ups the multiplayer vaule dramstically. It has its own flaws, bugs, maps that suck, etc. 
 But then again, what game dosen't? Even if it is a perfect game, theres gonna be some sort of flaw.
 
  
  Gameplay: Its easy to learn, but becoming a good DoD player dosen't happen overnight. Weapon recoil 
 is done nicely, as well as being able to control the weapons to compensate.
  
  Graphics: I'm not gonna lie, they look horrible compared to DoD: S, but they're bareable and this 
 game is about shooting people. Not staring at the pretty wall texture and getting your face blown 
 off. Well, it is about getting your face blown off, but not while staring at a wall texture.
  
  Sound: Some of the weapon sounds need more... ompf, I guess you could say. The BAR and Garand 
 sound nicely intimadating while the greasegun's thudump thudump thudump just warns you of a nuisance 
 weapon. The main problem lies with the M1 Carbine's firing sound, it gives the user away too much.
 
  
  Value: Its a great game. Worth $10 off of steam.
  
  Review by ImpaledDecade aka } [1LS] { Decade
  
  server suggestions:
  Mamma Jamma's Old Skool 
 8.9.8.114:27015
  } [1LS] { Playground 208.59.9.10:27015
  Southern Steel Clan 64.94.238.45:27015 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  Even before Electronic Arts officially unveiled Medal of Honor for the PC, the conflict between 
 American GIs and the German Wehrmacht was being waged online via Day of Defeat, a fan-built modification 
 for the Half-Life engine. Since then, Day of Defeat has slowly simmered and has been continually 
 tweaked. Now, after more than two years, a full retail standalone version has arrived (Half-Life 
 not required) . And, while this is welcome news, this final product almost seems dated, especially 
 with competition from the likes of Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory, 
 and of course, the ruling king, Battlefield 1942. On one hand, Day of Defeat has actually benefited 
 from its long development process, and for hardcore World War II fans (especially those looking 
 for a more realistic experience) , the game offers gameplay that is hard to beat. The developers 
 did their homework and provided some of the nicest skins seen in any World War II shooter, along 
 with an impressive arsenal of period weapons. For World War II buffs, it's like a dream game in 
 terms of attention to detail with improved uniform modeling and numerous classes, each with their 
 own skins. On the other hand, this has all been built with technology that is really showing its 
 age. Day of Defeat never had the best color palette and its maps were arguably its weakest link 
 -- both of these issues clearly make the commercial version feel all too much like a budget title. 
 The lack of an opening cinematic and spartan menus adds to this feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say I was rather scared when the previous valve-made multiplayer half-life mod (Ricochet) 
 was not a success, and was not very good, though creative. I was hoping for one of two things, 
 either Valve taking their creativity in the right direction for this mod, or go back to stage 1. 
 They went back to stage 1 and the mod turned out fine. Day of Defeat is the second most widely 
 played Half-life mod. Counter-strike was set in a modern day universe. Team Fortress was simply 
 modern day war. Now we have Day of Defeat, which was based on World War II gameplay. Now finally, 
 we have a domination only half-life mod to play. The setup is really something. Tons of weapons, 
 and classes like Team Fortress. They act quite realistically as well. With a ton of recoil like 
 WWII guns should have. The level of detail in the game is magnificent considering this is still 
 the half-life engine. It shows too, that the engine is on it limit-level. Everything has been improved. 
 Character movement, shot registry, and map length. Specifically the map length. The maps are so 
 large in this mod, and perfect for a 32 player game. The sound is wonderful too. Crisp and Clear 
 like never before from the Half-life engine. There are also classic new going prone and sight usage 
 features. The only set back of Day of Defeat is, all of the maps are pretty wide, and if you have 
 less than 20 players, it tends to get dull when you die and have to make your way all the way back 
 to the battlefield. But otherwise, Day of Defeat is a pretty nifty piece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  if you like ww2 shooters (which many people including me do) , than you should buy this game. it 
 offers great multiplayer, good realism, and hours of freakin awesome playing time. while there 
 are other good ww 2 games, i think that this one is the best. the best thing about it is that you 
 can deploy your machinegun!!!!!!!!!! this is indeed tasty. while this is a very good thing, it 
 is overshadowed by one fact. when you move your gun, the bipod stays in the same position, and 
 so you bipod can be floating in midair and you are as accurate as you would be normally with your 
 bipod down. that is this games singular flaw.
  
  P. S: if you want this game i suggest that you get it via buting Counter Strike1anthology. this 
 game comes with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocker500
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Story- 9/10: It does some decent re-creations of some famous WWII battles, and it's nice how in 
 some levels, you can be British, as opposed to being American all the time.
  
  Gameplay- 9/10: It doesn't take too long to get used to the way the game plays, assuming you've 
 played games based on the Half-Life engine before. They made a good class system, where you can 
 have a different loadout if you choose so, and you can take guns from dead people as well.
  
  Graphics- 9/10: They were good for it's time, and they aren't so bad that your eyes will bleed 
 out or anything, but as you can see, graphics have come a long way in three years. Also, I think 
 they did a good job with the explosions and the blood splash effects.
  
  Sound- 9/10: The sounds are decent, they sound pretty realistic.
  
  Value- 9/10: You'll spend 
 a lot of time playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Mr_Derp_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 11, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  If you like world war two, realistic games, addicting games, fun games, fast paced games, and just 
 all around awesome games than this is what you should be playing. With an awesome set of maps, 
 great weapons that are superbly balanced, fun classes to choose from, and a strong fanbase you 
 can't go wrong with day of defeat. The gritty feel realy adds to the immersion in this game, all 
 of the yelling and bullets whizzing also add to that. All the weapons sound like they should, and 
 they are not too hard and not too easy to master, so you can easily change classes and still enjoy 
 the game just as much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoblinMike
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I know some people like DoD, others much prefer CS or CoD. But for me the moment I played DoD it 
 stuck on me. I was addicted. I found myself in a clan playing hours after I returned home from 
 school. I love this game. It may not be for everyone, especially those who like Counter-Strike's 
 style of gameplay, but its definately worth a try for any fps fan. The game is alot quicker than 
 the more popular shooter CS because instead of dying and having to wait on everyone else to kill 
 or be killed, after a few seconds you are thrown right back into the action. Also, instead of having 
 to rescue hostages, eliminate everyone on the other team in a time period (which is impossible 
 in the sense that nobody stays dead) or plant a single bomb in one of two designated areas, you 
 must capture areas or attempt to destroy enemy equipment using either bombs or rockets. There are 
 plenty of WW2-era weapons such as the famous M1 Garand, K98, Lee-Enfield, Bren Gun, MG42, .30 Cal, 
 ect. Many maps are open ended and just plain fun. No two maps are the same. Bottom line: Incredibly 
 fun, may not be for everyone but definately worth a shot.
  
  9/10 and quite underrated/appreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGrandMiG
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  World War II. Who would have known it would spawn so many games? Some are good. Some are bad. Luckily, 
 Day of Defeat (DoD) is one of the good games. You all (hopefully) know what WWII was. So lets cut 
 to the chase. The Allies and Axis battle for control over various terrain throughout Western Europe. 
 Youll storm the beaches of Normandy, fight in quaint villages, and blast your way through an airfield. 
 In order to obtain victory in the battlefield, you must capture flags or certain areas, like a 
 bunker. Most maps have you capturing maps while some have you capturing areas. The levels are well 
 designed, and encourage all-out battles. Its too bad they dont look too good. I dont hate the 
 graphics or anything, but the texture look way too grainy. The character models, however, look 
 good. Gun models look spot on as well. Now, when you enter a battle, you choose your side, and 
 choose your weapon class. There is the rifleman who is well rounded, the submachine gun class, 
 the sniper, the machine gunner, and the bazooka class. Depending on the map, there might be more 
 classes, like the German paratroopers who sport the FG42. The Americans and the Germans are usually 
 evenly matched, while the British. not so much. Since the Brits are new to this version of DoD, 
 they only have the rifleman, the SMGer, sniper, and MGer. So, the Germans usually outclass the 
 Britons, but thats not really a big problem. Just wanted to point it out. The sound quality is 
 pretty good, the weapons sound realistic and crisp. You will hear background noise in all of the 
 levels, which really evokes the feeling that you are in a battle. One of the gameplay features 
 I really liked to the stamina meter. The meter decreases whenever you sprint or jump. This makes 
 the game realistic, and it makes sure your not jumping around like an idiot like most people do 
 in other shooters. Most of the guns have recoil too, which really adds to the realism (say goodbye 
 to using machine guns standing up) . So far, my only gripes with game are the textures, so whats 
 next? Its really just technical stuff. You WILL experience frequent server crashes and disconnections. 
 Its very frustrating, but shouldnt keep you from enjoying a very fine game. All in all, Day of 
 Defeat is a very fast-paced and exciting shooter for the history buff and the action fan alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meweus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  this game is not bad, but ive played better ww2 games. 
  
  well there is no single player in dod. 
  
  now multiplayer is fun. but there some problems. 
 
  maps are to kinda small, favor campers. i just dont like the maps, it takes more than one shot to 
 kill someone with the sniper rifle. some classes in this game are useless ( i mean clases like 
 sniper, rifleman) . 
  
  ps. maps remind me of bad moh games.
  
  sound is ok. could have been better but its ok.
  
  phisics are awsome!!!! healmets fly off 
 the way the person falls when he dies is realy realistic!!!! the only problems with this section 
 is the nade throwing, i found it awful, u throw nades like a girl with no arms. but u will get 
 use to it. 
  
  grafics suck u will kinda notice and will kinda bother u a bit, but the way blood comes out and 
 the way people die is kinda like saving private ryan. 
  so u wont mind alot!!!!
  
  this game is not a must buy, but its realy FUN. 
  still its not mind blowing!!!! its a good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzyclam
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  amazing game best ww2 online game out there. Awesome. better than counter strike u have to play 
 it. If u have any brains at all u will play this. absolute classic. So many poeple play it still 
 and its like for years old doesnt that say something. SO good. this game never gets boring. Amazing 
 maps and awesome weapons. if u dont like this game u are a retard and should not be allowed to 
 play games ever again. u should be ashamed of urself. Anyone who reads this has to play this game. 
 this one is better than source please play this. Awesome game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I remember reading about this mod in an issue of PCGamer. I decided to check it out for myself 
 and was instantly hooked. Keep in mind that this was the turn of the millennia, and that Half-Life 
 2 and the Source engine were still years away. No, this was the golden age of the original Half-Life, 
 Counter-Strike and mods like this made gamers buy a copy of HL just to get access to these awesome 
 mods (remember Scientist Hunt?!) .
  
  I was addicted to Counter-Strike until I played DOD. After DOD, I lost interest in CS. Why wait 
 out the round when you're killed when you can respawn much faster? There's no financial issues 
 so both teams are more evenly matched. Most of all, this game takes place during WWII and which 
 guy isn't a fan of WWII games and movies? As if that isn't enough, who can resist yelling out commands 
 in German?
  
  At first the game was very choppy. The graphics were pretty bad but excused because it was a newly 
 developed mod with newer versions coming out every so often, until you have what it is now. The 
 landscape was blocky and the vegetation can be laughed at, but there are innovations such as the 
 stamina meter with the turtle icon. No longer can you run and jump around your enemy while shooting 
 as you can in CS. There is a greater sense of teamwork, on such a level that CS can never match 
 it. The only problem is that unless you have great chemistry with your teammates, the game will 
 rarely feel like a team effort since everyone is off doing their own things and getting killed 
 as a result. The new DOD (not Source) has a better score system that ranks players on team objectives 
 captured rather than how many kills. This gets rid of the "me" in team. The game is easy to learn 
 but takes time and practice to master. The current version allows the player to play as the British 
 with their arsenal, a welcome addition to the game. Some of the game's maps can be argued to be 
 favoring one side over the other. 
  
  I still play DOD, the non-Source version, because to me it is truly a modern classic. Sure, there 
 are shortcomings that later games fixed, but remember that this mod was among the first of its 
 kind. In my mind it has launched the craze of WWII games that followed due to its success. CS was 
 the first online game that I adored, DOD is just as good if not better. 
  
  Public Service Announcement:
  If you aren't able to handle playing as the Axis powers during 
 WWII then don't bother with this. I remember several people disapproved of the game since I was 
 playing as the Germans on the original Omaha map (now Charlie) , cutting down the Americans while 
 they were still in their Higgins boats. People have to understand that this is a game and what 
 that means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamburguler
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I know, alot of people will disagree with me, but I think that this the best WWII game of all time. 
 I'll tell you why below...
  
  The best thing:
  
  You dont need a a good computer or graphics card to run a WWII masterpeice.
  
  The bad thing:
 
  
  The only bad thing about this game is the stupid lifeless geeks the say pointless things over the 
 mic.
  
  Graphics:
  
  7 out of 10 (for it's time)
  
  Gameplay:
  
  9 out of 10
  
  Sound:
  
  9 out of 10
  
  
  DoD is a fast, fun, intense, and addictive experience. 
 What makes this so good, in my opinion, is thats it's very close but very different from the one 
 and only Counter-strike. Thats #1 thing about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stephen149
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Well believe it not, I had this game before I had heard of Half Life (I know I know I'm crazy to 
 not have heard of Half Life) but I loved it from the first day I had it. I had played it at my 
 friends house and just had to go get it, so I went and bought the stand alone version not knowing 
 that it was even a mod lmao. Anyways, Day of Defeat is a fun, good looking, and very popular FPS 
 game.
  
  I think the thing that people like about Day of Defeat is that it is fast paced action and it doesn't 
 leave you waiting on someone else like Counter Strike does sometimes. There are lots of guns and 
 the fun just never stops when you have lots of options like Day of Defeat does.
  
  It is also a good looking game. I guess now a days it isn't really great looking but it was definately 
 very up to date when it came out. The guns look great and the environments look great.
  
  Day of Defeat has a very large fan base so it is easy to get answers on the game if you need them. 
 If you like FPS games with fast paced action, Day of Defeat is a game that you want to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotageClock
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Let me just say this before I begin, it is a hell of a lot more fun to play this game with people 
 you know. 
  
  Gameplay: All the realism you could want. I feel that its more real than CS is. The way the guns 
 shoot is very realistic, and the physics engine is just beautifully polished. Everything just fits. 
 There isn't much to criticize here. 
  
  Graphics: The game is pretty old at this point, so the graphics aren't so great, but they are still 
 pleasant to look at. The gun models are perfect too. 
  
  Sound: The sounds are flawless. Everything sounds exactly like it did back in 1942. The sound recording 
 artists did a great job. Everything from the Garand Bell to the sound of a K90 ricochet sounds 
 accurate. 
  
  Value: Its very difficult to not be pleased when your money buys you something that you will play 
 for a very very long time. I've played this game a ton in the last year, and enjoyed almost every 
 moment of it. (I hate getting sniped) . 
  
  Tilt: I tilt it to a 9. It is very realistic and a classic in my book. At this point, you might 
 want to try out DOD: Source, but the old version is still just as fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Ignore the Counter-Strike lunatics who rate this lowly because they expected the same, Day Of Defeat 
 is MUCH more.
  I've seen several reviews on Gamespot where more or less people have been expecting this to be 
 like Counter-Strike, and then becoming dissapointed because they're too narrowminded to actually 
 play anything else.
  They can't handle the fact that it can take one bullet to kill you, they can't handle the fact 
 that you can't jump and run and sprint all over the map popping anything that moves.
  
  They can't handle the fact that you actually NEED to cooperate with other players.
  
  The best 
 mod for Half-Life is not the over-rated self-oriented Counter-Strike, the true mod is indeed Day 
 Of Defeat.
  A slow methodical game, that can become insane in way of intensity, Day of Defeat will have you 
 relying on your team, not running around yelling "OMG KILLZ" or other such immature blabber. Most 
 servers will have people encouraging each other to move up once a machine gunner or sniper has 
 been downed. Players classes will benefit eachother, a good example might be a sniper covering 
 a machine gunner as he attempts to setup his gun on a nearby sandbag.
  
  This is NOT a game where you run around guns blazing, in fact, if you try to run around shooting 
 your gun at all, your aim will be so inaccurate that even if you're firing at a stationary target, 
 he'd be more likely to put one in your side, rather than you actually hitting him at all. 
  Whereas Counter-Strike's community has withered down to a self-centered, immature twelve year old 
 community, Day of Defeat will have much more friendly servers, and one single player can't be the 
 "end all, rule all" killing machine. 
  
  So now that we've got the "What it isn't" (Counter-strike) out of the way, let's start on the actual 
 review.
  I'll start with the small list of negatives. The first thing you'll notice is that DOD has a steep 
 learning curve, it'll take you sometime to adjust into the gameplay mechanics, you'll have to learn 
 how to cease circle strafing, and start weaving out behind obstacles, firing off a round, then 
 going back behind an obstacle. 
  It's a rather difficult experience at first, but due to the community's tolerance of newbies and 
 struggling players, you'll have understanding people who'll be willing to show you a few tricks, 
 or give you hints on which weapons to use.
  
  On to the good.
  DOD is extremely well balanced, all the official maps are excellent, unlike the way of most games, 
 where the official maps are rather left behind in the dust, even after years, these maps have managed 
 to capitivate the same community that began playing them a while back. Avalanche is a sniper's 
 paradise, Flash is a frantic continous push of the Axis moving forward, then the Allied moving 
 forward and etc.
  Northbound is intricate and large, Donner is a pretty hard to master map, where the battle-field 
 will be balanced between snipers and SMGers.
  
  These kinds of maps are the meat of DOD, they'll probably keep you looking out for their names 
 as you browse the servers.
  
  Now, about the graphics. They aren't much special, but the weapon models are excellent, same with 
 the player models, the official maps are beautifully textured and designed, but that's about where 
 the beauty ends. It's all sufficient though, and you probably won't have any problems.
  
  Pretty much a great game, just don't miss out on it if you own Half-Life, skip over Counter-Strike, 
 and devour DOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phicks85
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because I was looking for another thing to play online. Let me just say that this 
 was one of the best games I got for my PC. There are tons of cool maps and there is never a short 
 of people playing on the servers. For me there is nothing more satisfying than sneaking up behind 
 someone after you stormed the beach and blowing their brains out. I know there are tons of other 
 games like this out there right now but for some reason or another this one is my favorite and 
 I highly recommend it. So if you like playing online against people from all over the world then 
 I suggest you go out and get this game, and I'll see you on a server someday! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 26, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  I am going to start this way this time. One of the biggest problems with this game is the genre 
 that it belongs to. WW games are in a set that are only destined to fail after a year or two because 
 of the sheer number of games in its category. This is the case especially with the WWII games. 
 There are so many choices that this is one that kind of gets left behind.
  
  The graphics are okay in DOD. The scenery is nice and the players are detailed enough, but the 
 images are pixely and the action just isn't explosive enough. While the sound is also very nice, 
 other games have managed to pull off the sounds of war a bit better than this mod of Half-Life.
 
  
  The multiplayer in this game is really nice, but the major problem is the support. Players are 
 turning to other games and the game developer is slowing up on updates and patches.
  
  I want to say that I had a lot of fun playing DOD. My college friends and I would yell at each 
 other from across the hall and tease each other if we could find and snipe the other person. Unfortunately, 
 this is one of those games that is going to fade into the background and simply disappear from 
 memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flycir89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  Half-life is most famous for its Mods, especially its world-renowned Counter-Strike, now mod creators 
 focus on a new and old path. World War II first person shooters are starting to get old among the 
 P. C crowd, and this game was made back in the early 2000! When you look at 2006 you notice that 
 the WWII FPS games are still on the market and still put you through the same tedious missions 
 that are inaccurate to WWII. In Day of Defeat its a little different. Instead of having a single 
 player mission mode they replace that with just Multiplayer Mode. 
  
  The Paragraph below talks about STEAM and how Day of Defeat and other Mods work on it. Skip to 
 the next paragraph to see the game review.
  
  This famous Multiplayer step has been the same with all of Valves Mods, but this can uninterested 
 the public at the same time. This means, that, all you do is just join a server from a list of 
 servers (A channel with online players, NOT! A. I, though there are some games with added in A. I) 
 and you get brought into the game quicker then any other WWII FPS. When this game came out in early 
 2000 you had to own Half Life the game and download Day of Defeat off the Internet. It was complicated 
 for some, but they should not own a computer if they found it confusing. For all the noobs to Half 
 Life, its not running by its self anymore, Valve teamed up with STEAM (a stupid program that steals 
 peoples money, not really, but games aren't free to download anymore) and now the free downloads 
 to the #1 online game of the world cost money ($14.95 for Counter-Strike, and $9.95 for Day of 
 Defeat) This program makes it easier for people to run games and get monthly and weekly updates 
 for all the games STEAM has. Just go to www. steampowered. com and you can download STEAM and create 
 an account for free, but games cost money.
  
  Day of Defeat has every element that the movie "Saving Private Ryan" has. This game leads over 
 all WWII FPS by having a huge variety of guns to choose from, and how you can't seem to ever stick 
 with one gun the whole time. The game is broken down into two forces, the Allies and the Axis. 
 Allies are the Americans and British, and the Axis are the Germans. You dawn battle through more 
 than 25 official maps, plus mod made maps. 
  
  The Graphics are just simply stunning! That would be more convincing if we were back in 2001 but 
 were not and compared too todays standards its horrible on the graphics level. When you see the 
 cheap animated blood squares fly out of another soldiers mouth, its just cool! But now its just 
 funny or corny would be the better choice. You should still appreciate the value of detail the 
 Mod creators put into this game, its under appreciate, even at the time of release.
  
  The Sound is better than anything. When you first shoot the M1 Garand (American Rifle) it just 
 sounds beautiful, the sounds can be more important than the graphics because you get hyped up for 
 the loud gun shots mixed with the bullets hitting the bloody ground. When another soldier gets 
 hit its not all that impressive, they just make moaning noises and some Moded servers have annoying 
 sound effects when you die or get hit. Admins (server administrators) are really selfish in this 
 game when it comes to sounds. You might have to wait up to 7 minutes just to join a server because 
 you have to download lame sounds that you never hear, big negative about STEAM.
  
  Overall this game is fun. If you owned the game from the begging of 2001 what I am saying makes 
 sense, but when I bash on STEAM and server Admins to all of the new comers out there you will soon 
 see what its like to deal with the two. This game is almost flawless; its not the game itself 
 but the crap you have to go through to get in a single server. This game used to be loaded with 
 "Hackers" (Cheating Jerks) but now you don't have to fear them because all STEAM servers have Anti 
 Hacking Programs on and if you by pass this you can easily be caught and STEAM banes your STEAM 
 account forever, thats what happened to me! Play the game fairly and cool and you won't have to 
 be worried about anything, just where the enemy is going to pop out of.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  I was eager to play this game since I played Counter Strike so much but this game was a big dissapointment. 
 Compared to CS and most FPS games ou there this game is horrible. First of all the graphics look 
 really bland and blocky. Controls are horrible and slow. Guns have a crazy amount of recoil and 
 make aiming almost impossible. Except the weapons and name of the game nothing WWII is in it. Some 
 things that I liked were that there is a lot of guns and jobs to choose from. Apart from that theres 
 no real reason to buy or pick up this game. The only reason I have it is because it came free with 
 Steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewtyen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat is an all online game that pits the Axis and Allies against each other on many different 
 battlefields. The game has been out for a while, but has had many updates with Source and new maps. 
 The graphics and sound of the game are just ok, but the replay value is there in plenty. The game 
 does not include rounds like Counter Strike, but has waves of reinforcements every 20 seconds or 
 so. If a player dies in the game he/she will come back to life very quickly and get back in the 
 action. A variety of weapons are also available with classics such as the sniper rifle and machine 
 gun. This game is highly addictive and should be played by fans of WWII first person shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddiebone
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Game modifications, or "mods," are often developed by amateur mod makers in their spare time and 
 given away for free. Some mods have become so popular that they've encouraged publishers to swoop 
 in and release them as retail products, like the team-based game Counter-Strike. And now another 
 popular Half-Life mod, Day of Defeat, has gone retail. This World War II shooter has been tweaked 
 and polished with the help of Half-Life developer Valve for release as a stand-alone game, and 
 with new maps, improved graphics, and the ability to play as British troops for the first time, 
 this already great mod is now even better. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shade_boy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:51 pm PT
Review:  To play who play counter strike 1.6 alot it will seem like a WWII version of counter strike. Which 
 in any case is not a bad thing at all.
  It has the same controlls and weapon system as counter strike but it did do somthing different, 
 there is no more money. In that area it takes on Team Forteress style, with a limit of how many 
 different types there are on a team. The Weapons are put into packets which players get to choose 
 from in the beginning of the round. But if you dont like that than you can always go around looking 
 for droped weapons and ammo. 
  The Battlefields are not open to run around in and hide, but more of a closed in space. There are 
 lots of buildings to go in and snipe from thou.
  Its takes on a nice style of WWII shooters compared to other WWII shooters.
  Its run on the program 
 Steam like many other Valve games. But no suprise there.
  Its a decent game and you should get it if you really like counter-strike or Half-life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:23 am PT
Review:  Intro:::::
  When CounterStrike 1.6 was released, valve felt some people didn't like the game, so valve decided 
 to make another game like counter strike 1.6, and they made this.
  Day Of Defeat is a great game, i will explain below.
  
  Graphics:::::::
  At the time when 
 Half Life 1 came out, graphics were amazing, Day Of Defeat graphics are quite good, you can easily 
 recognize the weapons, and the enemies look good and you can recognize if they are enemies or team 
 mates. All the flashbangs and nades are amazing, and really show a great shot. Although now there 
 is Day Of Defeat Source out, its much more better game.
  
  Gameplay:::::::::
  The gameplay in 1.6 Valve games are the main reason, why they are more played than source games. 
 The tension you get while playing this game is amazing, you learn very quickly of how to play this 
 game. All the weapons are amazing, and teams have advantages of the other team in certain maps. 
 Also the gameplay is much more quicker than Day Of Defeat Source's gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver9563
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 8, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  for being an old game, i still love it and its as addicting as it was when it first came out, and 
 even though the source one came out the original is still kicken and keeping alive, very fun, must 
 buy if u like FPs. another hit by that bad ass company valve. i really hate this 100 words thing, 
 but yes go get the program steam and buy this one, u must have it. 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 
 100 100 100 100. 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100. i myself think it is better than 
 CS because of the respawn, u dont have to wait till the round ends u keep going and going, mass 
 loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall1991
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Day of defeat is the underdog of WW2 FPS's. Not too well known or advertised it has to be the best. 
 Tactical, intense, balanced, its everything to combine realism and gameplay. You choose allies 
 or axis and fight over certain objectives or just capture the flag points. Now day of defeat is 
 all about balance, and this is amazing. Theres not one completely overpowered or underpowered gun. 
 All have pros and cons so you can pick and choose your fights. This game is set up as a class based 
 system so you can have limits on the tommy noob sprayers although there wont be many since most 
 people are veterans by now. That being said the learning curve is perfect. There is no ceiling 
 of how good you can get with the garand or how many head shots you can pull off with a carbine. 
 The maps are realatively small so they focus on infantry combat. Don't beleive the hype of source 
 because its not what DoD is. The sounds are amazing and although at this time its not graphically 
 advanced its still amazing. there are plenty of weapons at your disposal and youll have to think 
 your way throuhg objectives and maps to survive. Use your hearing to ambush enemies and the teamwork 
 in this game is amazing. THIS IS THE GAME. There is nothing like it and never will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeMoNRiFLe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Some say that COD or MOH are the best WW2 FPS out there. I say otherwise, if you ever use Steam 
 (Valves gamer user interface) download a little mod known as DoD (Day Of Defeat) . This WW2 shooter 
 is as realistic as you'll get to the real action, the style of gameplay is sort of Counter-Strike 
 based, quick reflexes, excellent marksmenship and team work are all required to work with this 
 game. 
  
  DoD also features different game types, most include capturing certain areas and defending them. 
 If you haven't played DoD I suggest you go and check it out, it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 16, 2005 12:54 am PT
Review:  This is one of the first online ww2 games that I have actually enjoyed. The game is entirely multiplayer 
 so don't bother getting it if you are in for a singleplayer experience. It can be downloaded off 
 of steam for free if you have a version of half-life so look on steam to see if your able to download 
 it. Everyone always complains about how they hate steam but I have never found any problems myself. 
 This game runs perfectly even when there are 20+ people in a fast server. 
  The graphics are not the best looking but you should be able to get over the quality. The models 
 of the germans/british americans are very detailed; backpacks and you can see it when people change 
 weapons. The levels are detailed and sometimes very large. Perfect places to snipe and lots of 
 cover are available whether you want to play an offensive strategy or a defensive one. They also 
 included the reloading animation. You can see the bullets fly out of your gun and then your hands 
 insert new bullets into the gun and then cocking the weapon.
  The sound is very impressive. You actually feel like you're in a battlefield. Airplanes fly over 
 and you can hear then flying away and the guns actually sound like they do in real life. If you 
 have a microphone you can talk to people by pressing a certain button, which you can communicate 
 with the people on your team with. Its very convienient that they included the voice communication 
 so now we don't have to install extra applications like Teamspeak and Ventrillo. 
  Overall if you have a copy of half-life just go to steam and see if your able to install this game. 
 But if you don't have the game i really wouldnt reccommend buying this game since a new updated 
 version is going to be hitting the shelves soon. This game isn't really worth spending 15 bucks 
 on whenever you could just get the new version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryland14m89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2005 8:57 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Day of Defeat, I was blown away by the gameplay. I thought "OMG, this is just 
 like a WWII version of Counter-Strike." So it was in a way, spawn points, 2 teams, same gameplay 
 basically.. shoot all the enemies and complete the objective.
  
  What DoD is like is you have classes and ranks for your team, you can choose weapons and spawn 
 with that weapon with no money involved whatsoever. Classic guns from WWII involved.
  
  If you like Counter-Strike then you will definitely like Dod. It's not as addicting as CS, but 
 it is close. You will be playing this game for hours the first time you play and it will suck you 
 in. Definitely a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codgamer2004
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2005 5:15 am PT
Review:  Well, I love WWII FPS, so I thought I would give this one a try. Well, good news: I liked it =) 
 Though this isnt the best game I have ever played, it is very good. There are even small things 
 that got my attention (such as bayonets and rifle butting :D) . Let me explain:
  
  Gameplay- I am surprised to say it is very good. In fact, it can get quite intense! From charging 
 from your spawn, to capturing the final flag, I have fun playing this from beginning to end every 
 game! And there are a few realistic things that cought my attenion, like cooking grenades, using 
 up energy when you sprint, and even helmits flying off from headshots! I really enjoyed it from 
 the second I started playing.
  
  Graphics- I'll be honest, they arent very good. But they arent so bad that they take away from 
 the game. If a grenade explodes, theres dirt in the air. If someone shoots a rocket, there is thick 
 smoke.
  
  Sound- I am REALLY picky when it comes to sound. I want to be able to close my eyes and feel like 
 I am really there. This might be the best part of this game. From bullets wizzing by, to grenade 
 explosions, and even the gun sounds are good. VERY COOL!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 9, 2005 6:29 am PT
Review:  DOD is a great multiplayer throughout all the maps in the game, you are able to see great detail 
 and realism on the guns, maybe not so much on the environment but its still good. The game is well 
 contructed for a 1st shooter and has spent more time unlike some other cheaper WW2, well, this 
 is really a mod but because its had so much time spent on it, its become a standalone version.
 
  
  I can play on this for over a 1hr and still not get bored
  Any collection of a WW2 1st person shooter this is a must for your collection
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M1Hunter66
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2005 5:59 am PT
Review:  I first bought this game at my local mall for $30 thinking that it had a single-player mode. Well, 
 i was wrong.
  
  I installed without problems and found myself in a world of STEAM which is a little program that 
 Valve had created for all of those that owned Half-Life or any of its mods (which this game is) 
 to be able to keep them all up to date with the latest patches and news.
  
  I updated my game without problems and started finding servers for this game, which is multi player 
 only. Around 2500-3000 had come up, most with decent ping. What i diddnt realize is at that point 
 i was about to inject myself with the most addicting drug that i have indulged myself with since 
 Counter-Strike.
  
  There are no heroes in war, just soldiers, just fighting men. This i soon recognized. I found myself 
 in a fight where one man COULD make a difference, but where teamwork made the BIGGEST difference. 
 Everyone could choose from any class, and there must be a equal and satisfying balance in order 
 to win. You spawn with 2 other men. One has a Thompson, the other a Garand, you have a bazooka. 
 As you work your way down the street you can hear gunfire in the distance. When you turn a corner 
 you can see the barrel of a MG42 sticking out of an enemy window, you have flanked them with your 
 team. The man with the Thompson shouts out "use that stovepipe!!!" as the man with the Garand lays 
 down on the ground and begins to apply deadly, accurate, point fire on any enemy troops that have 
 noted your presence there. You raise your bazooka (or stovepipe) and blast a hole in the wall so 
 the Thompson man can rush in there and kill the enemy. 
  
  Without the Garand man, the enemy would have flanked you and you would be dead, without the Thompson 
 man you and the Garand man would have one heck of a time taking out the flanked MG42 and the troops 
 supporting it from inside the building. Without you, there would be no enterence into the building 
 to exploit your flank. Teamwork at its finest.
  
  The game play is astounding, there really is nothing wrong with it. If i could sum this game up 
 in one word besides addicting, it would be "intense".
  
  This game is also, very very old. It is a mod built on the Half-Life engine. The textures are bad 
 and milky, but i think that the weapon detail and the player detail are still great looking for 
 Half-Life.
  
  I love the sound. Other than Red Orchestra this game has the best sound i have ever heard. It is 
 better than MOHAA's, COD's and even BIA's i think, not to say that none of those games have great 
 sound. Best of all, the guns sound like guns, the floor sounds like floor, and the MG42 is just 
 scary as hell.
  
  Day of Defeat has great value. You will possibly find yourself coming back to this game again and 
 again, i sure have and i have been playing for almost 2.5 years! It is simply like a drug, a legal 
 drug, and the only bad side effect is that you fail math (well, i failed math) .
  
  The bottom line: If you own Half-Life (not Half-Life 2, sorry) or any of its mods out on retail. 
 You can get this game for free. And this is a damn good game for being that cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 28, 2005 5:38 am PT
Review:  Day of Defeat is a World War II themed multi-payer shooter. You fight in real locations, with real 
 guns and it's real fun. Day of Defeat is somewhat similar to Battlefield 1942, except it has way 
 smaller servers, with a maximum of 40 people or so.
  
  You can win by either capturing strategic points or by making a lot of kills. Naturally, the latter 
 is the natural option, as it is hard to co-ordinate and capture the strategic points.
  
  Day of Defeat is lots of fun, and is very realistic, like Counter-Strike. This is a great multiplayer 
 game, and look foward to Day of Defeat Source, which will include all new graphics and physics.
 
  
  A great multiplayer game, with few flaws.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ButnMashr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 24, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Reason, what I come too believe is that the not only the game itself is intense it's also the physics 
 of the game. Instead of running and gunning like some other FPS has gone towards just taking a 
 few shots here and their is ok. In this game your forced too use cover and call for back up sort 
 the like and use your fast reflex and timing and speed too dominate your oppenent. Not only that, 
 theirs flags or objectives to capture while your all in the big tug of war at the same time.
  
  From a full range of different specification of Charaters, and thier load out. Too Different 
 Maps and all range in Balance. While the Germans, are Invading don't judge too quickly by their 
 weapons. The Kar98 is one of their most unstoppable weapons. This gun will Rip, not only rip but 
 leave you cold and stiff so fear this gun. The only thing going against a person with this gun, 
 Is you hope he misses! Other than that the Allies best weapons seems too be their thompson. Best 
 Assault gun I come too like as an Allie, once your use too that. You can go ahead and use their 
 Garand the back bone of the group, This gun is quick, only thing it lacks is the reload, once you 
 hear that *ping* you know your out and you gotta head for cover or it's your last in that round.
 
  
  Fast and furious all out WAR! Kill or be killed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_SpamAlot24
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2005 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok if your not in to World War 2 or any military games this game is not for you. But if you are 
 a World War 2 history buff like me then this game is just what the doctor ordered. It may not have 
 a single player but the multiplayer is the best out there. Its better than Call of Duty and Medal 
 of Honor. You can always find a game your looking for. The graphics arnt the best in the bunch but 
 do graphics really matter when your having so much fun. When you join a game you can either choose 
 Axis or Allies. The Allies consist of the British and the Americans and each one has a good amount 
 of wepons to select. The Axis is of course made of the Germans who also have a wepon to select wether 
 you like to hang back and snipe or charge the enemy with a sub-machine gun or rifle. The sound is 
 great and the bullets crack as they pass your head just like in real life. What also is cool about 
 Day of Defeat is all the mod content. Day of Defeat is a mod of Half-Life but there are map mods, weapon 
 mods, and skin mods. So you dont have to stick to the regular maps, weapons or skins. Also a cool feature 
 are the spray tags. when you first install the game you have a chocie of standered tags but if you 
 go online there are bunches of spray tags that you can download. I had a spray tag that would have 
 been considered sexualy explicit material. and if they dont have a spray tag that you like they 
 have programs where you can make your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 12, 2005 6:39 am PT
Review:  Honestly for being a WW2 theme person who loves WW2, this game didn't satisfie me. The graphics 
 weren't the greatest that didn't really bother me its just when i heard about this game i wanted 
 to play something different from games like counter strike, this game felt like the same EXACT 
 game but with WW2 weapons. The game had a real tough time connecting to people, lan was always 
 pretty good though, but when do u get like 16 people over everytime u want to shoot some crazy 
 people. The sound seemed a bit griddy, you especially notice it with the huge machine guns. The 
 game has potential so hopefully with updates it will be better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadianNooB
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2005 2:56 am PT
Review:  When Half-Life hit the shelves in '98, it was hailed as being the First-person-shooter genre's 
 lifesaver. It breathed life into a stale genre, and is to this day considered one of the best PC 
 games by many. It continues to thrive not only because of its compelling adventure, but because 
 of its easy-to-develop-for multiplayer engine. There are tons of mods available, and some have 
 even been picked up and made available as standalone games, such as Counter-Strike. Day of Defeat 
 is the latest to use the Half-Life engine for multiplayer gaming, and it's just as good as ever. 
 Everything from the graphics to the gameplay make this game solid. Highly recomended for all those 
 Half Life fans are a little bored with CS, this game will solve your boredom issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarTS
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 11, 2003 3:33 am PT
Review:  OK... Listen up. Ill tell you how it is with this game. 
  
  First of all DOD has been around a long time as a halflife mod. Its gone through several changes 
 (not all of them I agree with) and now theres a stand-alone, retail version. Although you can 
 still just download it as a halflife mod for free Id recommend getting your hands on the retail 
 version because it is way less clunky. Theyve streamlined it quite a bit and brushed up the interface 
 so that youve got everything you need right in front of you. The half life interface on the other 
 hand sucks big time and if you just download the mod you still have to deal with it (including 
 waiting forever for the game to exit or it to list the maps) . But either way the gameplay for both 
 is the same. 
  
  So let's talk about all the categories.
  
  Gameplay. The gameplay is good however some weapons are overly difficult to control. Lying prone 
 is the only way you can use them effectively (no Im not just talking about the chain guns) . Some 
 guns jump so violently when you shoot that 2 or 3 shots later youre staring straight up. I know 
 that theyre trying to emulate the recoil of a rifle shot but its not very accurate. Im mean 
 in real life gravity would pull the muzzle back down to eye level after youre done shooting. Because 
 of this it can be difficult to hit someone standing 2 feet in front of you. It takes a little practice 
 to get used to it.
  
  Graphics. The graphics are bad of course in comparison to modern standards because it uses a graphics 
 engine that is a few years old. Though this isnt a huge issue since the game is fun enough to 
 where it doesnt bother anyone too much. 
  
  Sound. Its good enough. One thing that stands out with this game is the voice support. The ability 
 to talk to teammates really helps in the gameplay and the overall effectiveness of your team.
 
  
  Value. This games value is good because it is really fun to play but either free to download or 
 cheap to buy. 
  
  Tilt. This game is definitely worth your time and/or your money however it should be noted that 
 DOD is not the best WWII shooter out there. To all those you have a little extra cash, a fast computer 
 and internet connection, and a tolerance for getting your butt shot off every 5 seconds may I recommend 
 the best WWII shooter which is Battlefield 1942. BF1942 does have the above restrictions so if 
 you dont meet the criteria DOD is an excellent replacement.
  
  Or heck, just get both of them and be happy.
  
  Cha-ching... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlaursen
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2003 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This Game Blows Medal Of Honor and all of those other WW2 Games away.
  
  This isnt the most Immerse, well Graphiced, or anti-hack protected Game in the world. But it is 
 the best online.
  
  Medal of Honor, is no where as Realistic, or fun to play.
  
  There is no story line, there isnt any boring Cut scenes to wait through. Just good ol fashioned 
 Nazi killing fun fun fun.
  
  Good job Activision and the Original DoD Develpment Team. U made an Excilent Game.
  It just needs 
 SOF detaled Blood and Gore.
  and better Rag Doll Physics, and it would be the best game ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 23, 2003 6:21 am PT
Review:  This is the best videogame experience FPS fans with an affinity for WW2 can have online. BUt even 
 if you just like shooters, do yourself a favor and download this popular mod immediately! This 
 game is free. Not bad when you consider that it's one of the deepest online FPS around, if not 
 THE deepest. Whereas many people seem to favor BF1942's vehicular combat and strong graphics engine, 
 personally I preffer the robust squad based city encounters of Day of Defeat. Sure, there are no 
 vehicles here, but infantry classes have never been represented with such nuance and accuracy. 
 The graphics engine, while dated and ragged in a few places, has improved greatly over the years 
 producing an environment that is both immersive and capable of running on low end machines. 
  After playing DoD, other WW2 online shooters like BF1942, Wolfenstein and MoH seem fluffy and weak 
 by comparison. There has never been a WW2 themed shooter with such authentic weapons physics, gameplay, 
 and attention to historical details. Communication is definately an area that DoD excells at... 
 Voice chat is available which gratly facilitates teamwork, and there are even hand signs to silently 
 convey messages to your squadmates. Although more difficult to get into than a purely deathmatch 
 oriented game like Unreal 2003, DoD is a rewarding and incredibly deep online experience that should 
 not be missed. Easily one of the best games of all time. Hell, even my father plays it, and he 
 HATES video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bossjimbob
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 22, 2003 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat is a team-based first person shooter set in World War II European locales. Originally 
 it began as a modification to the popular Half-Life engine about three years ago by a varied group 
 of young adults from around the world as a project to flesh out their passions for history and 
 gaming. Rather than crafting the gameplay as another run-and-gun shooter for the masses, DoD designers 
 instead focused on squad tactics and cooperative play mechanics to force players to use their head 
 rather than bunny hop their way to the top of the charts. The end result is Day of Defeat 1.0, 
 officially adopted by VALVe, and published by Activision. 
  
  You have to give VALVe software a hand. In the 4+ years following the release of the wildly successful 
 FPS groundbreaker Half-Life, they have managed to stay afloat releasing what has amounted to expansion 
 packs and modded versions of their source code. Granted, each iteration has improved graphically, 
 ever so slightly, as well as added newer innovations (voice chat, HL-TV) while the gaming community 
 has created and adopted different versions of anti-cheat software and tweaks. Counterstrike was 
 the first HL mod to make it to the big time, not only because it had a huge audience, but simply 
 because it was designed by a talented bunch of individuals from all around the world. It was a 
 work of passion  unique, as well as progressive. Years later, it is still among the top online 
 shooters, despite rampant cheating and an aging engine. There were others not worth mentioning 
 that made the jump from pet-project to full blown release, but quickly faded into obscurity. Day 
 of Defeat, on the other hand, has evolved into an underdog player that often rivals the big boys 
 of historical combat in some ways. Medal of Honor multiplayer and Return to Castle Wolfenstein 
 were both released on PC after Day of Defeat was firmly planted in the mod community. While they 
 had obvious technical advantages (use of the Quake 3 technology, large budgets, professional full-time 
 staff) they werent perfect. As a mod, DoD had agility  changes could be instituted more readily 
 according to fan suggestions. Now that it has joined the big leagues, how does it stand up? 
  
  Graphically, the game runs on an old engine. When stacked up against its contemporaries, maps 
 have a blocky and jagged look, while textures appear muddy. Alternately, character models are nicely 
 rendered with convincing animations and period accuracy. While death routines are gruesome, the 
 absence of now popular rag doll physics occasionally results in weird clipping errors where casualties 
 float in the air or jut out of the wall after taking a hit. Its a minor complaint, but one worth 
 mentioning. 
  
  Audio is fantastic, from the whiz of bullets past your head to the sound of shrapnel and earth 
 showering the ground after artillery and grenade explosions, you will unknowingly duck and dodge 
 in your seat running for cover. Player communications were faithfully recorded in the native tongues 
 of the soldiers, which add to the realism factor (no faux German accents here) . Voice chat is a 
 supported, albeit underused feature. Hand signals, when properly employed, can mean the difference 
 between a successful sneak attack and a botched assault. Too bad they are accessed through a clumsy 
 interface, but no matter. Once you get the hang of the controls, the game becomes an extension 
 of your mind. 
  
  Map objectives vary from the simple capture-the-flag variety, to the more involved demolition missions. 
 There is variety in design, with some interesting triggered sequences and events to spice things 
 up. Without cooperation and organization with teammates, expect to lose often. This is a game about 
 team play, so if you were expecting Quake with Tommy guns, dont bother. In fact, its nearly impossible 
 to hit a target while moving. Player movement causes the aiming reticle to move and bob, thus increasing 
 the impact spread from your weapon. Single shot rifles are generally more accurate regardless, 
 but sacrifice the volume of lead a machine gun can deliver. Skilled MGers will find strategic 
 choke points, and plant their weapon to maximize accuracy and deadliness. Other players will have 
 to periodically drop off extra ammo, as the gunner only carries a limited supply. Grenades offer 
 a nice alternative to take out that pesky s****er hiding in the shadows of a bombed out structure. 
 Once you hear that familiar bounce of metal on wood, kiss your ass goodbye. 
  
  Character classes are varied from the lightly equipped scout and assault type, to the heavier supporting 
 infantry. There are no medics, nor vehicles to control. Still, Day of Defeat has enough variety 
 and realism to impress, so long as you are not looking for the prettiest game on the block. At 
 the modest retail price of $29.99, it is a worthy addition to any PC gamers online library, but 
 the absence of a single player component will likely alienate the group of WWII enthusiasts who 
 rolled their way through Medal of Honor looking for more of that gritty goodness. Those who have 
 played the free version over the last few years can still download the full version, although there 
 are reportedly some features not available or supported by it. 
  
  Ultimately, Day of Defeat isnt the prettiest WWII squad-based shooter, but its charm overcomes 
 its limitations. Its obvious the game was crafted with care, and for that alone it will hold a 
 special place in my library for many years. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curare
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2003 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat is an absolutely fabulous game. No it's not as graphically intense as the more modern 
 WWII shooters out there, but its gameplay is 10x more intense. No other game gives you such an 
 incredible feel for tight, squad-based infantry to infantry fights. Teamplay is a common occurrence 
 on servers, and it's very rewarding. Are there vehicles? No. You want vehicles go play BF1942. 
 Huge landscapes and vehicles are not the point in Day of Defeat. The point is tactical infantry 
 simulation; and it's there in great abundance. The feeling of weapon impact is solid and the weapon 
 models are the best around, bar none. The sound is punchy and loud and mean and very good for an 
 all out war game.. 
  
  
  
  Now for some reason outsiders assume there is a lot of cheating in Day of Defeat like there is 
 in Counter Strike. But take it from someone who's been playing this game for 2 years, the cheating's 
 simply not there, and here's why: the reinforcement respawn system. In Counter Strike people cheat 
 because they don't want to die and stare at the ceiling for 3 minutes waiting for the next round 
 to start. In Day of Defeat, your next respawn is always only just seconds away. No matter what 
 you hear CHEATING IS SIMPLY NOT A PROBLEM IN THIS GAME. 
  
  So will Day of Defeat give you the prettiest graphics around? No. But it will deliver by far the 
 most intense and satisfying WWII infantry combat out there in the gaming world. I've tried them 
 all and I keep coming back to Day of Defeat. I've logged more hours playing Day of Defeat than 
 all other video games combined. Give it a try! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
