-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Day of Defeat: Source
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/dayofdefeatsource/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Surprisingly fast-paced.
 Tangible interdependence between classes.
 Gorgeous visuals.
 Well-designed and open maps create flow.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only four maps at launch.
 Some odd balancing issues between kits.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  3, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.1, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 3,310 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Valve Software
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Sep 26, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While a lack of maps cuts into the game's value somewhat, Day of Defeat: Source still offers a satisfying 
 and exciting experience for those who just can't get enough of World War II. 

  While Counter-Strike was easily the most popular mod developed out of the Half-Life engine, another 
 mod based on World War II, Day of Defeat, also turned out to be quite a hit. Like Counter-Strike 
 before it, the mod eventually made it onto store shelves as its own retail product. So it only 
 makes sense that Valve would port this popular game over to its flashy new Source engine as it 
 did with Counter-Strike. While a lack of maps cuts into the game's value somewhat, Day of Defeat: 
 Source still offers a satisfying and exciting experience for those who just can't get enough of 
 World War II.  

          One of Half-Life's most popular mods finally gets a Source upgrade.     

  Like its 
 predecessor, Day of Defeat: Source focuses strictly on close-quarters infantry combat. You'll play 
 as either the Americans or the Germans on four different maps. Yes, currently Day of Defeat: Source 
 only offers four official maps to play on, but Valve has promised that more are on the way. If 
 Counter-Strike: Source is any indication, Valve will follow through at some point. At least the 
 routes that you can run on the maps are well-designed and flexible for the most part. There are 
 usually multiple ways to approach any given objective, and once you get there, you're usually open 
 to attack from different angles and elevations. In each of the initial maps, the goal is the same. 
 Five capture points are scattered across the level. Your team can gain points by killing members 
 of the other team, or capturing and holding one of the objective flags. If one team ever gains 
 control of all five points at once, big points are awarded to that team, and the round is reset 
 with each team returning to its spawn site. Most of the flags on any given map can be captured 
 just by touching them, but some points require a couple of players to sit on the flag for a brief 
 period of time. The ability to quickly capture a flag in Day of Defeat: Source contributes to the 
 surprisingly quick pace. Also adding to the general speed of the game is that your default run 
 speed is fairly fast already. A sprint button is available, which is limited by a fatigue bar, 
 but using it lets you move at what seems like lightning speed.  

  You'll appreciate the ability to move quickly though, because the sprawling levels are chock-full 
 of buildings, as well as alleyways and dark passageways, which can be entered. Anywhere you turn, 
 an enemy might be lying in wait, aiming at you from an elevated window or a dark doorway. You never 
 know which window or corner may be harboring a threat. All of this contributes to a constant sense 
 of tension as you explore streets and enter the buildings that are decorated with a realistic amount 
 of furniture and clutter. Our favorite of the four maps is Anzio, as it offers three levels of 
 fighting, from underground passages, up to narrow, winding streets, and on up to elevated windows 
 and firing points. Aside from its well-designed maps, Day of Defeat: Source also offers some interesting 
 control quirks to help differentiate it from the endless number of WWII shooters on the market. 
 You can, for example, attempt to pick up grenades and throw them back at enemies. In addition, 
 you can't fire while sprinting or jumping.  

          Each of the kits has something different to offer.     

  There are six different class 
 kits. These range from standard riflemen to submachine gunners to heavy machine gunners, snipers, 
 and even bazooka-carrying infantry. The classes across the two sides are fairly analogous, like 
 chess pieces. Even the American rifleman with his semiautomatic M1 Garand doesn't gain that much 
 of a speed advantage over the German rifleman with a bolt-action Mauser. Each primary weapon includes 
 a secondary fire mode that varies depending on the gun. Riflemen can aim down their iron sights, 
 while submachine gunners get a melee attack. Heavy machine gunners and rocket-armed infantry must 
 set up their weapons before they can be fired. Shooting a machine gun from the hip is literally 
 uncontrollable, so you must set up a bipod on a railing or windowsill or else go prone to set up. 
 The bazooka and Panzerschreck soldiers must also set up their rocket launchers before they can 
 fire. Meanwhile, the support troopers can select single shot or automatic on their guns. All the 
 guns in Day of Defeat: Source have quite a bit of recoil and kick compared to similar shooters, 
 which encourages you even more to kneel or go prone in order to keep control.  

  While all these class options give the classes some obvious variety, there seems to be some odd 
 balancing issues. For example, it would have made more sense to give the riflemen a melee attack 
 as the secondary fire instead of aiming down the iron sight. This would give riflemen a fighting 
 chance in close quarters. While aiming does seem to give a little bit of increased accuracy to 
 the weapon, the extremely slow transition and major speed penalty involved make it often unappealing 
 to use the aim, when firing from the hip can be almost as effective and can still give you a chance 
 to dodge a bit. At least the rifle grenades you get as a riflemen are fun to use and quite effective. 
 Similarly, it doesn't make a whole lot of sense for the submachine gunners to get a secondary melee 
 attack -- isn't their gun already meant for close quarters? The developers have also generously awarded 
 the rocket launcher-armed troops with a carbine as a secondary arm, a far sight better than the 
 pistols offered to such troops in other games. Also, in the hands of a skilled player, the carbine 
 is almost as effective as other primary guns. In the grand scheme of things, though, these are 
 probably relatively minor quibbles against an overall fun and fast-paced game.  

  Part of what sets Day of Defeat apart from other shooters is the interdependence of the various 
 classes. Snipers and riflemen can reach out and hit enemies down long corridors or streets, while 
 submachine gunners and the support troopers carrying BARs and Sturmgewehr assault rifles are better 
 for indoor combat and close-quarters action. As your team makes its way around the maps and tries 
 to capture and defend the various points, you'll rely on machine gunners to set up and cover long 
 approaches to your flag. Bazooka infantry and grenades can help flush out entrenched snipers, while 
 the submachine gunners should lead the way into buildings for other classes who need to move. While 
 the fast-paced nature of the game seems to generally favor those carrying automatic weapons, the 
 teams that are successful are the ones that move together and work with a purpose. Freelancing 
 in Day of Defeat: Source doesn't get you as far as it does in something like Counter-Strike because 
 of the greater inaccuracy of the weapons and the extreme ease with which you can die.  

          What Day of Defeat: Source lacks in content, it makes up for in gorgeous visuals.     

 
  Presentation is Day of Defeat: Source's most obvious strength. Clouds from smoke grenades and 
 the resulting dust from explosions and machine gun fire look great with the graphic engine's ability 
 to render fantastic volumetric effects. The character models are also well detailed and animate 
 smoothly. All of the levels in the game also offer incredible texture detail and a believable volume 
 of debris and objects that you'd expect from a war-torn town. There's even a good deal of amusement 
 to be had from the rag-doll physics that are present. The effect of bodies getting blown back from 
 explosions might be a little overdone, but seeing a limp body left hanging at a macabre angle from 
 a windowsill or obstacle makes Day of Defeat just that much more visceral. If there's any nitpick 
 we have it would be with the weapon models, which aren't quite as sharp as you'd hope. And you'll 
 also need a pretty good machine to run the game well. Our Pentium 4 2.4GHZ, with 1GB of RAM and 
 a 128MB Radeon 9700 Pro ran at playable frame rates, but encountered some occasional hiccups, even 
 running at 1024x768. We really loved the sharp and impactful sound effects. Each of the guns offers 
 a unique and recognizable timbre. Canned voice commands are also available, but what's more interesting 
 is that you can hear from which direction the enemies are yelling out when they're on the battlefield 
 giving orders or whenever they've captured an objective marker.  

  While Day of Defeat: Source leaves a lot to be desired for now as far as content goes, what's available 
 is very high quality. The four available maps are well designed, creating a tangible and enjoyable 
 flow as the battle shifts from one objective to another. The game also offers all the beauty and 
 polish you'd expect from a shooter powered by the Source engine. If you've already paid for Day 
 of Defeat: Source from a prior Half-Life 2 premium purchase, you've got nothing to lose by downloading 
 and joining the ongoing online fray. For the rest of us, the price of admission is $20, and while 
 one game type and four maps doesn't sound like a lot, it's pretty safe to say that any competitive 
 first-person-shooter fan will get at least that much value out of playing Day of Defeat: Source. 
 It's also a safe bet that Valve will expand on the content in the near future.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (189 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Naikori
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 1, 2009 9:13 am PT
Review:  Day Of Defeat: Source is the sequel to the 2003 retail mod, Day Of Defeat. This game uses Vavle's 
 popular Source Engine. It takes place during World War II. The game is Multiplayer only, so you 
 know what to expect from a Multiplayer game that was made from Valve.
  
  Before you even go into your first server, you can see that there is barley any maps in the game. 
 An estimated 3-5 maps are in the game. Each of the 3-5 maps only will play one of the TWO game 
 modes. Either bombing stuff like tanks or buldings, or capturing control points. There are Custom 
 Maps and they either have a custom game mode or they will use one of the two Offical Game Modes.
 
  
  As you start to get into Gameplay, you chose between The US Army or the Germans. Then you need 
 to chose which class you want. From Assault, Support, Rifleman, Sniper, or Explosives. (There was 
 one more. Just forgot the name.) Then its time to get in the game. The game looks a little cartoonish, 
 but that's still alright. Your able to sprint in the game, but your spirnt meter will go down quickly. 
 If it goes down all the way, you will be fatigued and will need to rest for a while. The thing 
 that made me really mad at this game was there was only Aim Down The Sight for only two weapons. 
 They are the Sniper and M1 Granad. 
  
  As I said in the introduction, the game uses the Source Engine for its Graphics. They are pretty 
 detailed, but there are some Graphical Problems in the game, but its really no biggie.
  
  Since this is a Multiplayer Game, there really isn't anything else to say for the game. The final 
 thing to say is that if you played the first Day Of Defeat, you'll be playing the same game with 
 some little changes.
  
  Summary:
  
  The good:
  - Sprinting
  - Six classes to chose from
  - Good amount of Servers
  - Good Amount of Custom Maps
  
  
 The Bad:
  - Plays just like the first game
  - Aim down the sight for only two weapons
  - 3-5 Offical Maps
  - 2 Offical Game Modes for each map
  - Sprinting Lasts for about 3-4 seconds
 
  - Graphical Problems here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricoxs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 7:12 am PT
Review:  Well, this game is pretty good, graphics are also good. This game is highly addictive, there are 
 plenty of custom plugins and custom gamemodes you can play, from Gungame to Zombie Mod.
  
  Those few bugs that this game has don't make game worse, you can spot bugs very rarely, and if 
 there is any, then Valve fixes it as fast they can. 
  
  I played this game for long time, it's very balanced and fair, few weapons may be stronger than 
 other same class weapons, but it still makes it more intresenting. There is every class you need, 
 maybe except Sapper, but if you want you can find a plugin where players can plant mines and defuse 
 mines, right?
  
  I can't really tell anything much about this game, you JUST have to TRY it out and see it's quality. 
 You may like it if you prefer Source engine instead of Counter Strike 1.6 engine. When you want 
 to rush, only thing that prevents you from that is Machine Gun.
  
  That's all I could say about this game, don't blame me for this short review. Just nice game that 
 ya' gotta try out! Plus, it isn't so expensive.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dev8stator_Ic9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Valve has been turning out masterpiece after masterpiece since Half-Life, and Day of Defeat: Source 
 is no exception. I costs 10 dollars on Steam, but don't let that fool you into thinking its a striped 
 down run of the mill mutiplayer game.
  
  Graphics 9.0- Day of Defeat may run on an older version of the Source engine but it still looks 
 amazing at high graphics. Beautiful, fully rendered environments make you feel like your really 
 there. The best example is a map called Kalt where the Germans and the Allies slug it out a town 
 during the battle of the Bulge. Its a bright, snow-covered day and you can see the breath of nearby 
 soldiers freeze, its kind of hard to explain but it feels quite authentic. Source also provides 
 some nice lighting effects and a high view distance.
  
  Sound 9.0- Not only does Source have wonderful graphics, its got realistic sound. Every weapon 
 has a different sound and they all sound terrific. You hear every footstep, every grenade blast, 
 and every mournful cry of death... Also in the map Kalt you'll hear the booming sound of artillery 
 in the background. The music in the game-though limited is well done.
  
  Gameplay 10.0- The best thing about Day of Defeat is its addictive gameplay. You have a number 
 of different kits to choose from (all balanced) I. E. Rifleman, Assault, Support, Sniper, MG, and Rocket. MG 
 is an interesting one. You must set it up on a ledge or lying down. You CAN fire from the hip but 
 it'll have really bad recoil. There are also a ton of CQC in the game so you need to choose a kit 
 suitable for the map.
  
  Value 9.0- 10 dollars gets you all that I mentioned. Theres only a few maps but theres also lots 
 of User-created maps which are also good at times.
  
  So, if you like what Valve has already offered you (like CSS, TF2, HL2 ect) then theres no reason 
 not to pick this up off of Steam. After all, you can't go wrong with a 10 buck purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alma996
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  every one who has steam knows about the original day of defeat. well this is more updated with 
 achievements, recently added maps, and they are still adding. for a cheap price this game has it 
 all. custom maps, multiplayer, and challenging maps thats nearly impossible to complete without 
 strategy. there are 5 classes for every team and there can be 3 or 2 of them at a time on the field. 
 it destroys counter strike by a mile and you can't go a couple of months without playing it. and 
 also when you have the game you get to try the beta for anything new coming out for day of defeat. 
 there are new orange maps with great strategy that really works on aim, using a sniper scope with 
 moving targets, and you have to work with your team or lose. and sometimes the map isnt finished 
 for 20 minutes with no one getting the other teams flag a whole area of one team boxed in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex-c26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  This game is really good, the graphics are great, the physics in the game are good, you can shoot 
 cups and bottles you see on the floor, the game play is good, you can have up to 32 players on 
 a server, it has a few official maps but lots of players make custom maps. You can be 6 classes, 
 Rifleman, Assault, Support, Sniper, MG or rocket on either Allies (Americans) or Axis (Germans) , 
 its only multiplayer which some people don't like but if you want some fun then buy it, you can 
 join clans on it and go in leagues if you want to be in the competitive side of DODS (DODS is shot 
 for Day Of Defeat Source) . It has been updated recently, its now on the same engine as Team Fortress 
 2 and it has achievements as well, the only things you get when you finish the achievements are 
 different icons above your head which teammates can see but its something to try to get with in 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis94
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat is a hell of a fun, addictive, great game.
  
  The base is simple : You enter a server, you choose your side, Axis or Allies, you chose your class, 
 each of them with different weapons, number of grenades and model type.
  The match begins, and the war starts. When you eventually die, you respawn after a little amount 
 of type, between 5 to 10 seconds, or around that.
  
  And so the war continues, until someone capture all the flags, or destroyes all the objectives, 
 the only two possible ways to end a round. When the round is won by either one of the teams, another 
 round restarts, and so on, until the time expires, and the map changes. Simple.
  
  But the fun in this game is the graphics, all the millions of players, the different maps destroyed 
 by the fights ( the scenarios in every map are all awesome ! ) ... Its a real war, theres teamwork 
 in every match, people rely on each other. 
  
  Its really fun. Nothing beats using a sniper to blow up someone's head, or move with your little 
 friend's squad under a rain of bullets.
  
  A great experience, instant gratification, and its cheap now ^.^
  You wont regret playing it 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwestsdeaznx
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  DoD: S is a fun and fast pace game that places you in a WWII esque game allowing you to play either 
 as a German from Nazi Germany or an Ally from the allied powers. The game is pretty simple, capture 
 all flags or destroy all enemy targets to win the battle. Frequent "reinforcements" respawns every 
 5 seconds puts you in the battle again to capture flags and kill the enemy. Killing the enemy requires 
 the user to use WWII (obviously) and these guns give one heck of a kick of recoil, it's not a + 
 or - but for people who play games with modern weaponry, they might not get used to this.
  
  Also they allow the user to have 4 different types of movement - regular walking, crawl walking, 
 proning, and temporary sprinting. Maps are beautifully made, from the Paris cafe to the bombed 
 out church. You'll enjoy the scenery as much as you enjoy killing your enemies. 
  
  Some cons that even have the players of the game have is the new explosion effect after firing 
 a bazooka or throwing a grenade, instead of a realistic explosion it emits a cartoony TF2 explosion, 
 clearly not in sync with this game. And after the July update some weapons feel that they are more 
 accurate namely the Thompson, a fairly medium ranged gun now capable of kills at long range. Things 
 that may frustrate the player may be the number of children who play this game and spam mics/text 
 box. They may not be as rampant as in CSS but they are spreading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  There are tons of people who love playing shooters online. The amount of people who are still in 
 love with WWII themed shooters however, is dwindling. So you really have three choices when choosing 
 which WWII themed shooter to play online. You can play Battlefield 1942 which is becoming extremely 
 dated, you can play the unbalanced and camper heavy Call of Duty 2, or you can play Day of Defeat: 
 Source.
  
  The graphics aren't going to really impress anybody, that part is obvious. However, it still isn't 
 a bad looking game either, and it can run smoothly on just about any computer. The art style is 
 pretty typical of a WWII shooter, not necessarily a bad thing, it just won't stand out from the 
 pack.
  
  The soundtrack is pretty good, if not a little bit limited. There isn't really any voice acting, 
 nor is there a need for any as there is no storyline or single player campaign to speak of. The 
 sound effects of the funs and explosions are spot on though. One thing I find cool is that you 
 can find your way to a combat situation just by listening to the sounds of gunfire, the sound is 
 really that accurate and immersing.
  
  The combat is essentially Counter-Strike with a twist. The use of cover is slightly more encouraged, 
 partly due to the completely different set of weapons. They're your typical WWII weapons. They're 
 all pretty well balanced and have their share of pros and cons. Things are fast paced, and the 
 map design is top notch. The only real game-play complaint I have is that along with encouraging 
 more use of cover, it also encourages some people to camp in the process. Not that big of a deal 
 though.
  
  A great addition to anyone's PC game collection as long as you have Steam. Most computers should 
 be able to run it smoothly on at least low settings, my runs it on max with no problems. Definitely 
 one of the better choices if you're looking for a WWII themed online shooter to eat up your time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dallbowl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  As I was a fan of the original Day of Defeat, I was excited to hear about the game moving over 
 to the Source engine. As is the case with the original game set in WW2, you choose between two 
 teams (Allies or Axis) and battle it out for capture points on the map, or you may find yourself 
 roaming the map with the objective of destroying enemy equipment with some TNT. Unlike the original 
 Day of Defeat, the Source version does leave out team based maps and the airborne based maps -- 
 there is no more British team, nor the US Airborne or Fallshirmjager maps.
  
  The graphics are still quite good considering this game was made in 2005 -- the HDR, the maps and 
 animations all look great. The player and weapon models are a bit plain, but don't despair my friend 
 for there is a ton of custom content to download that replace those boring stock models. These 
 community-made skins are well worth the download and do add quite a bit of visual appeal to the 
 game. 
  
  The official maps are enjoyable to play as there is much in the way of destroyed houses, rooms, 
 fields, towers and alleys to run your way through, or to camp in if you prefer to stay put for 
 extended periods of time. Also, there are a ton of custom maps to play on -- as long as a server 
 has it in its map list and you download it, you can play it. There seems to be some quirks with 
 the official maps -- some are easier to win with Axis or Allies, but an emphasis on teamwork and 
 coordination via voice chat can enable you to direct attention to specific parts of the maps -- 
 for example, where the enemies may be in abundance, or where a Machine Gunner may be deployed ready 
 to send 500+ rounds a minute in your direction.
  
  The classes are all relatively even in strengths and weaknesses except for some stupid choices 
 from Valve -- the bayonet no longer exists with the rifleman, the rifleman now doesn't stand much 
 of chance at all in close quarters combat unless you whip out your spade or knife, but by that 
 time your probably already dead. The assault class now has a melee attack -- it does not need one 
 since this class is equipped with the ultimate close quarters weapons of the day (Thompson & MP40) . 
 Some of the weapon classes have been omitted in comparison with the original, but the game still 
 offers 6 classes to choose per team, all with different roles to fulfil.
  
  Despite the game being made in 2005, there are always servers to play on that are full enough to 
 offer you a competitive gaming experience. The more seasoned players may utterly destroy you at 
 first, but with a bit of practice you will be able to take revenge. The great thing about this 
 game is that you can still be competitive even if your not that great at FPS. Sure you will get 
 'owned' at first, but the learning curve is not as long and difficult as other FPS online shooters 
 can be.
  
  Although team cooperation isn't pushed into the game at great extent, you will find that more cooperation 
 will lead to your team winning matches. Also, if you are into competition you will find DOD: S clans 
 around to join with leagues and ladders and all that jazz. If your looking for a fast-paced online 
 action game that is very addictive, full of carnage, and fun, then don't look past Day of Defeat: 
 Source. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  DOD: S is based on Valves Engine, an impressive engine that powers some really good Valve games 
 (Except CS: S)
  
  DOF: S is basically CS: S but much better, it's based in WWII era so it's automatically a game you 
 should be looking at. The weapons all feel very well done however I feel some of them are eather 
 to tuned of not enouth. 
  
  There are many things with this game that need to be and could be improved but I really wont go 
 into them in this review.
  
  Having said that there are more good points than bad with this game and thats a really good thing. 
 There is 1 thing however that I just cannot help but say and that is the low amount of maps. There 
 are only a handful and playing them over and over gets very boring very fast, this is sad because 
 the game has a lot more to give than just a couple of crummy old maps that you master in about 
 2 play thoughs. there are many maps to download from the comunity but you will be hard stretched 
 to fine one thats half decent and fits your playing style.
  
  Overall the game feel a little rushed but still manages to impact you as a gaming wile you play, 
 the graphics are pretty good here and there but not perfect, the game will give you more enjoyment 
 than CS: S but this one isnt going to keep you entertained for long.
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalisticpain
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat, where to begin?
  
  DoD was originally a Mod made for HL2, along with its Team Fortress and Counter Strike. Valve saw 
 the success and snapped up all developers, and now with the Source engine, have released sequels 
 to all of these.
  
  DoD comes off great. Its an Objective based game, where each map as specific control points. Some 
 flags are easily captures, Some require 2 people to be there, and some arnt flags at all but Bomb 
 sites that must be bombed twice to destroy it. Whoever captures all the flags, or destroys the 
 other teams sites wins the round. Points are given throughout the match as well so a winner is 
 determined when the time limit runs out. So if 1 side holds 3 flags and the other 2 for 20 mins, 
 then outcome will be like 30 - 12 points or something.
  
  Its quite a fast game, and its great to see how the lines of battle change. Sometimes you will 
 be fighting for the tank, but then ever so slowly you get pushed back, and the enemy now controls 
 the houses all round it, their MG's have moved up and their snipers as well. The battle is no longer 
 over the flag, but in your corridors. If you have been playing CS: S for years, then the recoil 
 will be a real negative for you I believe (it was for me) but you have to come to terms with how 
 to fire, its not your M4, its a poorly made automatic weapons from WW2. The recoil is great but 
 you have to get used to it, give it time and you'll get it.
  
  Graphically its a source game, which means its very nice and clean. being source, helmets come 
 off, signs swing, and people have ragdoll. There are around 6-8 Maps currently, which may not sound 
 like much, but each map is feels completely different depending on which side you play.
  
  Sounds are great. Guns shots and explosions are all very nice and healthy. I have surround sound 
 and its a treat. The Support classes heavy BAR's make a thumping on the bass which is very satisfying. 
 And i personally love the menu music.
  
  This is a great Multiplayer game, and its dirt cheap. If you been playing FPS's for a while and 
 though you wanted something different, then this is a good choice. A refreshing change of Pace. 
 Valve are also doing an update for DoD so it gets the same treatment has TF2, with Achievements 
 and everything for all you 360 owners :P
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Termite551
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  Modern warfare FPS games getting stale? Probably not, considering the market is pretty much saturated 
 with ww2 shooting games nowadays. But if you aren't already tired of the ww2 FPS genre already, 
 this game might catch your eye.
  
  Day of Defeat started out like many multi-player shooting games, as a Half Life 1 modification. 
 And DoD just like Counter Strike was discovered by Half Life developer Valve and made into a full 
 fledged game. And with Half Life 2 and the incredibly powerful source engine a reality, Day of 
 Defeat: Source was made. I myself have not played the original Day of Defeat, but I can be pretty 
 sure it is a lot like this game.
  
  Like Team Fortress 2 the game is a class based multi-player FPS. What this means is that you can 
 choose a class, which is basically a preset soldier with all his weapons already equipped, and 
 get into the action. This differs dramatically from the style of shooting games Quake founded. 
 Quake style games such as Halo have everyone starting with the same equipment and the stronger 
 weapons are all scattered around the stage.
  
  Now, onto the gameplay. All of the classes seem quite balanced, which is a very good thing. The 
 classes are generally very specialized, which means that for instance, the sniper class is very 
 bad in close-quarters combat. This adds to the team element of the game. There are some odd choices 
 when it comes to classes however. For instance, not only does the German rocket class have a less 
 versatile weapon, he also has a slower rocket launcher. This could be said to make up for the "Weaker" 
 American support class, although many now agree that the American support is better. The assault 
 class, who's main weapon is focused around close combat, has a pistol as a side weapon. This is 
 questionable because the pistol is rather worthless to the assault class, considering it has the 
 ultimate close range weapon. Also, even though the game seems to be built in a way that people 
 can push objects to block doorways and such, in practice it is rarely seen and is rather hard to 
 do.
  
  If you have a microphone plugged into your computer, you can easily use this to quickly communicate 
 with you teammates. If you don't have a microphone, you can also use the voice commands that are 
 built into the game.
  
  The game takes place in ww2 so there is very little protection in the game. A single shot to the 
 head will kill anyone. This makes the game quite methodical sometimes, as you know you could be 
 quickly and easily taken out at any second. This element of the game makes communication even more 
 important, so it is great that Valve implemented such good microphone support.
  
  The graphics in the game are whats to be expected from a Source engine game, great. Of course they 
 are a bit dated since the game was released a while ago. This was the first Source game to support 
 HDR and when it is enabled just makes the game even prettier. The frame rate will hold steady on 
 pretty much all newer systems.
  
  The sound in the game is also top notch. The game is made so that you can stop and listen to enemy 
 footsteps and determine where the enemy is coming from. This adds a whole new strategic tool to 
 the game, and can really be powerful in the hands of a strong player.
  
  The community is what you would expect from a multi-player shooting game. Although less immense 
 than Counter Strike, Day of Defeat also has a strong community following it. You will never have 
 a problem finding a server to play on. While some people are deterred from multi-player games by 
 the sometimes immature community, that is not something to worry about in Day of Defeat.
  
  Overall, Day of Defeat has a lot going for it. If you have an interest in ww2 shooting games or 
 multi-player games in general, this game might be for you. It has a strong community, great graphics, 
 and a slightly more mature vibe than Counter Strike: Source. Even though it is a bit dated in this 
 day and age, I suggest that you pick it up and give it a try!
  
  Overall Score: 9.5
  
  
  "To fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists 
 of breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting"
  
  Sun tzu, the Art of War 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waring_Houses
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat is a game that features the epic struggle World War II against the Nazi's and the 
 Americans. Players can choose which side to fight with. Both sides have the same types of weapons 
 with slight variations depending on the side your on for example the Americans have a bazooka and 
 the Germans have the panzershrek.
  
  Day of Defeat does not feature a campaign so it is a strictly online game which many may find irritating 
 while many more will love it.
  
  Day of Defeat features six classes which are:
  
  Medic - Medics can heal other players, they have a small arsenal.
  
  Rocket - Have a small 
 hand gun and either a bazooka or a panzershrek which is used to either kill people or blow holes 
 in walls.
  
  Support - Supports have a quite large automatic rifle as well as 2 frag grenades.
  
  Assault 
 - Assaults have a machine gun as well as a frag grenade and smoke grenade.
  
  Sniper - The sniper class has a large scoped rifle but no grenades of any sort.
  
  Machine 
 Gunner - The machine gunner class must set up their massive machine guns to fire otherwise the 
 recoil will be too much to handle, they also have no grenades.
  
  All classes have spades (Germans) or knives (Americans) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedram793
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Great graphics here. Source is a great engine, so no surprise it has great graphics. No problems 
 here. 
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Good, solid gameplay. Nice choice of weapons, like the restrictions on some site. Not everybody 
 can have a sniper. About 3 or 4 a team. Only thing I don't like about this game it's kind of hard 
 to get really good. I never managed to get a kill death ratio of over 1, so in other words I suck. 
 .
  
  Lasting Appeal: 10/10
  If you are into WW II games, then you could be playing this for a long time. Really fun game that 
 is a great multiplayer game. Nice choice of maps and variety of weapons will keep you playing. 
 
  
  Overall: 9.7/10
  Great game, if you don't have it by the Source pack with Day of Defeat: Source, Counter Strike Source, 
 and Half Life 2 Deathmatch. All three are great multiplayer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwNaGe_CRZY
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Despite the game only having 4 maps at launch, almost every user-created map feels like it must 
 have been made by Valve. The gameplay is very smooth, and can also require you and your team to 
 co-ordinate your attacks if you don't want to all end up dead. MG's provide awesome firepower that 
 can be quickly set up, helping push back the opposing players. Snipers, however, can quickly rid 
 of this machinegun and put rushing back into the list of possibilities.
  
  Weapons have larger recoil that Counter Strike, and crouching makes your grouping much smaller. 
 This is a game that requires skill, as well as aim, and tactics.
  
  All in all, this game makes you feel good inside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samowen88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Day of Defeat Source
  
  Day of Defeat : Source (DODS) is a online only World War 2 class based first person shooter for 
 the PC, released through retail and publishers Valve's digital distribution platform Steam.
  
  DODS is a remake of the 2001 Half life mod Day of Defeat, with the developers completely remaking 
 the mod as a retail game with the Half Life 2 Source engine. The remake brings all of the class 
 based game play but now with vastly improved graphics, audio and environments.
  
  The player has to choose between either the US army or the Wehrmacht Nazi Armed forces) when starting 
 a game and once you have chosen a side you have to choose a class and these range from sniper, 
 machine gunner to rifle men but each class is limited to a number of people so that the sides remain 
 balanced. For example you can only have one machine gunner per side as not to unbalance the game. 
 The game plays with you having to take over specific points on the maps and fight the other team 
 for these points on the map with the winner being the team with all the points taken and the other 
 mode being detonation which has the teams detonating bombs at specific locations.
  
  On release the game came with four maps but through updates there are now eight official maps. 
 However since release, the game has been taken in by the modding community who have created many 
 maps for the game. The eight official maps take in the different war zones of World War 2 and do 
 a good job of recreating the feel of them in so much as they are not going to recreate them in 
 perfect detail. The maps are all asymmetrical and this makes the maps varied and interesting with 
 different routes being taken depending on which side you choose. The maps are balanced and also 
 very well designed with a lot of good choke points and alleyways which are perfectly suited for 
 a good firefight. As the fighting gets more intense and the more people are dying the game will 
 re spawn your teammates and DODS is one of the few online multi player shooters that whilst it 
 don't force you to use a lot of team work the way the game plays it is very easy to act as a team 
 without really communicating.
  
  On release the graphics of DODS were the best that the Source engine had ever produced. The game 
 introduced high dynamic range lighting (HDR) which put simply gave the game realistic lighting. 
 All of the models for the characters have been complete remade since the Day of Defeat mod and 
 they are very realistic and with the realistic environments help give the game a very good realistic 
 look. The game has also benefited graphically from updates from Valve in the form of effects added 
 to the game to make the game more gritty and more like a war film. These effects are small and 
 not noticeable at first but when pointed out do give the game that war film feel. The effects added 
 are motion blur, film grain, colour correction and depth of field and these effects make the whole 
 experience more believable and inviting.
  
  Also DODS takes the Dynamic Audio Simulation System that was in Half life 2 and takes it to the 
 next level. Without getting to technical the system changes the frequencies of sounds depending 
 on how far away they are and allows the player to hear sounds more naturally than before. This 
 means that the game does sound very atmospheric and especially with 5.1 surround sound the game 
 sounds amazing.
  
  With all online multi player games and especially online first person shooters you have to get 
 in at the release of the game or you face an uphill struggle to compete with the more experienced 
 members of the community and this is true in this game. With Day of Defeat source being a remake 
 of a 2001 game the players of the mod have a massive advantage over any new players coming to the 
 game and this may put off some people. New players to the game will die a lot but once they build 
 up the skill will be able to compete.
  
  DODS is a very good team based shooter and will attract the hardcore first person shooter fans. 
 The graphics and audio is great and whilst this may give some technical errors sometimes the game 
 more than makes up for it. The high barrier of entry in this game may put people off but the people 
 who want a very good and balanced multi player experience will not go wrong with the $9.95 price 
 tag on steam. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cos_vanquish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I must say I love this game to the fullest. I spend quite a few hours every day playing this game 
 and it only gets better. The competition you find there is compareable to that of Counter-Strike, 
 but more tactics are involved being that you have to maintain control of different area's on the 
 map. The weapons that you are able to use are authentic WWII weapons and if used right, they can 
 be some deadly weapons that mean life or death for you in the game. I myself am quite fond of the 
 M1 Garand because it packs a lot of power and can pick people off from a distance with just one 
 shot. If you are going to be in close quarter combat though, I would definately recommend the Thompson 
 due to its smaller recoil then most others, plus the amount of damage it produces. The graphics 
 and gameplay are unbelievable and exactly what you would expect for this type of game. I hope that 
 they continue up on this game and make a new edition for it sometime down the road.... and very 
 soon at that. If you haven't played this game or even checked it out, I surely hope you get some 
 time to do so, because you seriously don't know what you are missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 24, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  The game just doesn't feel as smooth and look as nice as lets say the CoD series. I think it feels 
 clunky and doesn't hold my interest for very long. Like I stated above I do like some of the maps 
 they play and look very nice. I think the sound is horrible and they could of done so much more 
 to make this game really stand out. All in all nothing new here if you are a fan of WWII games 
 give it a try but if you want the best WWII FPS this is not for you. I can't really think anything 
 else to say about this game but if you are in a mood to waste money on a game I guess this will 
 do just as good as anyother steam product on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msi276
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Its not that its not a good game its just that its not very fun. It has horrible lag most of the 
 time and the mods will ban you for pretty much anything. Only pick this game up if you are a die-hard 
 WW2 shooter fan. CSS or HL2DM are much better choices. It has a very weid feel to it plus almost 
 everyone playing it is under 13 years old which causes lots of mic and chat spamming. Thats all 
 i have to say but since it wont let me type under 100 words ill point out the good and bad.
  
  Good: Good for ppl who like WW2
  Good graphics.
  Ok maps.
  
  Bad: Not many fun servers.
 
  Lots of mic spammers.
  Lots of hackers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudcaked
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Day of Defeat: Source is a team based multiplayer game where the objective is to capture flags 
 situated at various points around the maps.
  
  At present DoD boasts the four original maps as well as Kalt and two demolition maps that have 
 been introduced bringing the total to seven official playable maps. These maps all have the option 
 to display HD lighting and this is highly apparent when playing, especially when traversing from 
 an indoor environment to an outdoor one. Overall the graphics seem sharper and more detailed than 
 its counterpart Counter Strike Source.
  
  DoD: Source breaks away from the Counter Strike forumulae by introducing capture the flag map objectives 
 as compared to Demolition and Hostage Rescue. In doing so, DoD forces teams sometimes out of those 
 oft too comfortable choke points in order to effectively defend a location. As flags are captured 
 throughout the game, it also forces teams to dynamically shift troops to alternate locations rapidly 
 to defend different areas, this opens the gameplay from the chokepoint stand offs that were common 
 in CS: Source maps such as Dust and Aztec. This keeps the action rolling and forces teams to think 
 tactical in their placement, as a static defence will likely lose the round for the team.
  
  The class system further enhances the tactical options available to teams.
  DoD: Source boasts 
 the Rifleman, Sniper, Support, Rocket, and Machine Gunner classes into the fray. All these classes 
 are dependant on one another. There is no AWP class in the game. Though the 'AWP' types may be 
 reflected in machine gunners and snipers this is where some awesome balancing designs kick in, 
 while the sniper can be deadly, he can not engage effectively at close range, being forced to rely 
 on the .45 sidearm he is equipped with, while the machine gunner, capable of mowing down a team 
 twice over when situated correctly is vulnerable to snipers and rockets, and powerful as he is, 
 must remain static and have the bipod of either the MG42 or the Browning .30 Cal. properly deployed.
 
  
  The weapons themselves are portrayed well and well modelled, you can expect to see the above machine 
 guns, the M1 Garand, M1a1 carbine, .45 sidearms, Springfield '03, Bazooka, Panzershreck, Mauser 
 K98, Mp40, STG44 as well as the Luger as the German sidearm, these models stay fairly true to their 
 real life counterparts and will be a pleasure to use for WWII fans.
  
  As you play you may notice a lot more of the little details that seperates this game for some online 
 shooters. Though i recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of World War II action and multiplayer 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Well what could you expect from VALVe bad producsts.... yea right ! I jsut bought my new RADEON 
 2900XT &amp; i was kinda surprize to se that y have DAy of DEfeat source alltough the box only 
 mentioned the black box ! Anyway from the mmoment i have enter the game i was very familiar to 
 the default control setup .... because is very similar to the 1one in CS + the Z button will make 
 you hit the ground ! The game is 10 times more realistic than every multiplayer game out there 
 ... you will die from max 5 bullets dependig were it will hit it so in some case's 1-2 MAX ! Grenedes 
 kill you in a second not like CS where you still have at least 20 HP ..... &amp; evan your hellmet 
 comes of if you survive a near grenade blast ! The other super gameplay fact is that some classes 
 like theheavy gunner or the bazooka has to pay the price for those heavy weapons so you practacaly 
 will have to set the gun on a stable obstacale to fire it &amp; the bazooka on your shoulder ! 
 Another great thing about hte is the way it implemented CS based gameplay .... you stil have the 
 commands to give your squadmates ...... combining it with battlefield gameplay but in a much simplier 
 way 7 more FUN ! I have my RADEON 2900 XT from some tine allmost a month i as a full i didn''t 
 tried to instal steam because the blac box isn't out till october i think .... the thing that geted 
 me started was a magazine &amp; i'm kinda sad because i didn;' knew about this game faster ! With 
 ATi &amp; VAlve be sure to have the greatest software arround ! CYA at DX10 test Nvidia users :P 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ooh_Snap
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat: Source (DoD: S to some) is the successor to the original Half-life modification, 
 Day of Defeat (comparable to Counterstrike in many ways) , a World War 2-era multiplayer FPS. Released 
 in late 2005 on Half-life 2's versatile Source engine, the graphics have braved the test of time, 
 and then some. With the Source engine's characteristic modularity and Steam's distribution mechanic, 
 Day of Defeat: Source proffered many technologies practically unseen in the gaming world, as it 
 was in 2005. Day of Defeat: Source was the first game implemented with Valve's new High Dynamic 
 Range lighting. Along with HDR, the game's motion blur, depth of field, film grain, and color correction 
 all accrue to create an immersive gaming experience, visually referencing period cinema.
  
  The game is entirely multiplayer. Upon entering a server, the player may choose from one of two 
 sides -- the US Army and the Wehrmacht. Second, they choose from six classes (Rifleman, Assault, 
 Support, Sniper, Machine Gunner, and Rocket) , the latter three classes typically come with limit 
 restrictions on many servers. However, the ever-modular Source engine provides access to a slew 
 of different options for any savvy game host. A Rocket-only server, you say? Enjoy!
  
  Once a class is chosen, the player is inserted in a pre-designated spawn area on their team's respective 
 side of the map. In many games (see: Red Orchestra) , a static spawn can significantly hinder the 
 pace and structure of an entire game or match. This is not so in Day of Defeat: Source. The maps 
 are so small and tightly constructed that maneuvering from spawn to the enemy takes but only a 
 few mere seconds. This brings us to the maps of Day of Defeat: Source. There are eight official 
 maps for the game (though an active modding community has provided dozens of their own -- inclusive 
 of a wonderfully hectic map in which the player participates in storming (or defending) a Normandy 
 beach) . The official maps are Anzio, Avalanche, Argentan, Colmar, Donner, Flash, Jagd, Kalt -- 
 some based on real-life situations of the time, some fictitious creations of the development team, 
 many reiterations on classic first-generation Day of Defeat maps.
  
  It is of irrefutable fact that the true star of Day of Defeat: Source is the map itself. Many of 
 the maps are extremely small when seen alongside such games as Red Orchestra and Battlefield 1942, 
 though this relatively miniature construction is very conducive to the style of gameplay that the 
 game permits. Day of Defeat: Source is all about rapid succession of skirmishes between players, 
 insular clashes, and literal nose-to-nose combat. Exchanges between enemies take not longer than 
 a few seconds. That is not to say that the weapons are overpowered -- they are, in fact, decried 
 by the community as being pitifully weak -- but that the sheer volume with which a player may engage 
 his respective firearm results in almost immediate death. Thus, knowing the map is key.
  
  As the game sports but a select few maps, most players have every nook and cranny of every single 
 inch of every map memorized. Hardened Day of Defeat veterans will know where the best sniper spot 
 is (on Avalanche, the shadowy place in the basement of the spawn; on Kalt, the small fenced area 
 overlooking the bridge which can only be reached by delicately crouching and jumping on a series 
 of crates and ledges) . They will know where to set their MG to plug the enemy's advance, the most 
 expeditious shortcut to take to the last flag, where to concentrate their time and energy. The 
 downside of this is that, consequentially, everyone knows such things, except for the greenhorns. 
 And even then, the brief learning curve will render them pros in but a few gaming sessions.
  
  Overall, Day of Defeat: Source is a readily accessible game not without its flaws, though the 
 better parts of this gaming experience can significantly overshadow this. Catering to both hardcore 
 gamers and casual players alike, Day of Defeat: Source is a broad-ranging arcade-esque multiplayer 
 FPS. It is not hard to find something that will keep you coming back to the game, be it the fun 
 community, slew of mods, fast-paced gameplay, or server customization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felluca
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Half-Life series since Uno. I never played Counter Strike much 'tall. I 
 stuck with Medal of Honor in those days due to my preferance of WWII era shoot'um ups! When I heard 
 Day of Defeat: Source was coming out I about creamed my pants. To this very moment I'm playing 
 it and enjoying the crap out of it. The game's graphics are great, the level-design is amazing-one 
 downside is a lack of shipped maps. . .
  
  For any fan of the genre this is simply a must-have. The weapon balancing is amazing and it's refreshing 
 to see a game that doesn't allow everyone to be the snipers or machine gunners. Every server limits, 
 and it varies on maps as to the limits of players per a class which is often needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slasher70
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Ah, Day of Defeat. The Half-Life, Class base WWII multi-player shooter. I remember when the first 
 version was around. The graphics sure were subpar, but it rendered some intense moments of fun. 
 And then came the Source game engine. To be honest, DoDS has amazing graphics even to this day. 
 HDR looks incredible, and it runs smoothly in a half decent PC. The gameplay is superb, but if 
 you're not into online gaming, then stay miles away from it, since it doesn't have any 3rd party 
 bots yet, let alone official ones or a single player campaign. Other downplay of going online: 
 Stupid teammates, cheating opponents. I guess every online game has them, anyway. So, what's missing 
 with this game? Vehicles. DoDS was intended to have vehicles, since you can trigger vehicle-related 
 command via developer's console. But, come to think, DoDS is much more of a Close quarter Combat 
 oriented game. The maps are really really small when compared to Battlefield ones, so it's kinda 
 hard to figure out how would they fit in a tank, or even a jeep in them. Maybe future updates or 
 releases/sequels will clarify this. I wouldn't tell most people to buy this game right now, even 
 though it sports a budget price tag, but anyone who just can't get enough of WWII is invited to 
 check it out. One less than pleasant fact about this game is that utter lack of maps. Up to this 
 day, there are 8 official ones that are ok and a truckload of third party maps that may take a 
 while to download (especially via in-game download) and most of wich are not really that great. 
 So, unless Valve thinks otherwise, prepare to play the same maps over and over again.
  About the sounds, they're great, realistic loud and heart pounding. Dynamic 3D sound is cool, but 
 kinda weird too. Sometimes it works perfectly, as in, being near to someone makes his gun sound 
 lound and clear, being far away makes it sound muffled. But sometimes it can screw up things, as 
 in being a few dozens of feet away from a machine gun and it sounds like it's across the map. Also, 
 most of the weapons have a magic sound line, crossing it will make it's sound effects go from point 
 blank clear to far away muffled in the nick of time, especially true with machine guns.
  As for the gameplay, the new class system is a bit hard to getting used to, and mastering each 
 weapon do take some time. The classes have really been limited. So now you can't snipe enemies 
 with a sub machine gun or fight in narrow corridors with a big rifle, like you could in the original 
 DoD. Now the classes have been balanced to give them strict advantages and shortcomings. I. E. The 
 Assault class is perfect when fighting in small spaces, like houses or so, but it's in a world 
 of trouble if it gets confronted by a rifleman out in the open. Snipers don't have the bionic steady 
 aim they have in other games, so learning how to control the mouse and where to stay is crucial. 
 The most tricky of them is probably the Rocket class. When playing as rocket, you're granted a 
 rocket launcher that is the machine gunner and sniper worst nightmare, but it requires some practice 
 to master.
  So that's it, if you love WWII knock yourself out, you probably will anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I highly recommend this game. Its levels are intricate and a lot of fun. The only thing I have 
 a problem with is that the M1 Garand should be more powerful. However if you watch TTV dont listen 
 to Stanley he knows nothing of the game obviously. So if you play the map avalanche there is a 
 distinct axis advantage. Watch the TTV episode, its obvious whoever is axis wins. I recommend this 
 on realism and just over all fun. I really enjoy it as one of the best WWII shooters out there. 
 Definitely buy CS: Source and get this free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenEmu
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  The amount of hours I have lost to the original Day of Defeat cannot be measured. My group of friends 
 used to head to the university internet cafe and take up half the computers shooting each other 
 for hours at a time. So, an update to the game to make it all very pretty was a no-brainer purchase 
 to me. And I was not disappointed at all.
  
  The graphics and sounds are fantastic. The smoke and muzzle flashes, rocket trails and explosions 
 are all a joy to behold, and make it very easy to forget that you're watching a game at all. The 
 weapons also look very good, and sound excellent. And the maps are different enough from the originals 
 to offer a challenge for the old-school players.
  
  But the best thing for me is how they've changed the weapon characteristics just enough to create 
 a need for teamwork. The biggest problem from the original was the ability for 'One-Man Army' players 
 - guys who can (and usually do) , sprint, leap, shoot MGs from the hip, throw grenades with pinpoint 
 accuracy, and run all over the map without the need for a team at all, regardless of what weapon 
 they had. This game levels the field so that they can't do this anymore. First, the weapons also 
 are a lot harder to master I found. While I've mastered most of the American weapons, I find the 
 Germans almost impossible (save for the basic rifle and the MG-42 - my personal fave) . You need 
 a different headspace for each one, as they all have their uses and their disadvantages. While 
 the rifle is great to cover a long straight path advance, the semi-autos are great for running 
 and spraying areas with lead to clear cut the way. And even the most concentrated push forward 
 can be halted with the proper use of suppressive fire from one or two defensive positions, putting 
 MGs into their proper place. This means that the only way any side can win is if they work as a 
 total cohesive unit, or if the other team does not, allowing for few Rambos, and more Band of Brothers.
 
  
  You will still run into the jerk player who believes Halo is the only way to play a FPS (shoot 
 them, then teabag him in the open) but that is generally rare. I find that playing online is mostly 
 a great time - tense, frustrating, and excellent for all the right reasons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussianYulia17
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat: Source (DoD: S) is not a port of the last pre-Source version of the HL-based mod -- retail-release 
 of DoD. It is a complete, from the ground up, build of the game on Valve's (Half-Life 2) Source 
 engine. For those unfamiliar, Day of Defeat is a WWII-based FPS (first person shooter) . You choose 
 either the US (Allies) or Germans (Axis) and fight it out online, choosing from 6 classes. This 
 is purely an online game. There is no single-player mode and there is not (yet) official bot support. 
 While not as nearly as popular as fellow Valve title, Counter-Strike, DoD: S is a lot of fun. The 
 visuals are absolutely stunning and take advantage of the latest technology that Valve has made, 
 most notably, HDR lighting. The gameplay is quick and the weapons are more lethal than the typical 
 WWII shooter. The game has a very authentic feel, but if you're expecting a realistic shooter, 
 look elsewhere. So far there are only 6 official maps released, but at least 2 more are in the 
 works and there is a strong custom map (and other content as well) community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this game is one of the best online shooters ever made. Day of Defeat source is a 
 upgrade of the 1st game called Day of Defeat. This is a online 1st person shooter with a WW2 theme. 
 In this game you get to play as the US or The Germans. In Day of Defeat source the object of this 
 game is to get all the flag points when you are also trying to defend it for the enemy. There are 
 also other typs of maches where you have to protect serten targets from getting blown up but the 
 enemy planting bombs on them. There is also just death match or just servers where you goof off. 
 In this game there are different ranks you play as. Each having a different starting gun and each 
 having there own things to do. In this game There are many differnt levels to pick from ranging 
 in size and place in the world. Or there are 100's of different maps that you can download and 
 play from. This game is mostly a online game offering no offline game play but for Lan. You can 
 also hook it up and have a killer LAN party. This games graphics are run by the killer source engine 
 that also have CSS and Half-Life 2. The only thing that is bad is that you have to use steam to 
 play. The gameplay is simple and good. The sounds is all there, and the value is too. I gave this 
 game such a high score cuz it was that good and I say pick it up if you are a big fan of WW2 games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaeltheCM
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  No matter what server, map, or team your on, this game guarantees that you will have an awesome 
 experience playing the game and will keep you in your seat in front of your computer monitor thirsting 
 for more. I first played the original Day of Defeat 2 years ago at a friends house, and I instantly 
 fell in love with the game. When i bought my computer that same year i installed steam and noticed 
 that there was a source version of that same awesome game i played. I tried it out thinking that 
 it would be the same game with just better graphics. I was dead wrong! Not only were the graphics 
 very realistic, the gameplay was slightly different but the game itself was, how can i put it simply?. 
 BETTER!!!!!! DOD Source blew my socks off and i have been playing it ever since. Ever since i started 
 playing i have become addicted to the incredibly fun gameplay and it has easily become my favorite 
 pc game. Compared to other games from other game platforms this game can easily compete with multiplayer 
 games such as Halo 2. So if you love WWII games and even if you do not because honestly i am not 
 a very big fan of historic games, i highly recommend this game for I am pretty sure you will have 
 a very good time whenever you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeroWarrior
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat Source has really improved on many things like sounds, graphics, and most of all 
 gameplay. Day of Defeat Source has a good feel on the battles duing WWII. There are 6 different 
 set classes like assault which carries a Thompson (hand machine gun) , Pistol, Smoke Grenade, Frag 
 Genade, and every class carries a knife (U. S) or a shovel (German) . The Sniper RIfle which is hard 
 to learn good sniping tactics like where to snipe and stealth, but when you get the hang of it 
 you'll find yourself using it alot. There are a massive amount of maps where many players can play 
 which look great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfr4badkarma
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Learning Curve here is a little bit longer than most games. The recoil is DEFINATELY hard to get 
 used to though. The game is like any other steam game and prone to their infamous Corruptdates, 
 but the game is more than worth it. Once you get the hang of the guns and find a group of people 
 to work with as a team, the game becomes a favorite.
  
  The fun in this game highly depends on what group of people you come into contact with. Some people 
 are most likely to be complete losers, and others might be stuck up. Once you find a group you 
 enjoy though, just sit back and enjoy the fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat was originally a Half-Life Mod and gamers still play it to this day. With the release 
 of Day of Defeat Source Valve shows us again that it can provide a Multiplayer only experience 
 but still be decent. DoD: S uses obviously the Source engine from Half-Life 2 and does so very well. 
 It is hilarious to watch the enemy's body be flung across the street and nail a wall when you chuck 
 a nade into his bunker. While there are a lot of WWII games out, DoD sticks to the formula in terms 
 of weapons and models but strays when it comes to game modes. There are two game modes, One where 
 the team who holds all the flags at once win, and another where the team to destroy the opposing 
 team's strategic points up first win. Both are fun to play and are different from your average 
 deathmatch and team deathmatch modes. Day of Defeat only lets you play as the Allies and The Axis 
 which is limited but each side does have classes each having their own unique weapons, such as 
 Rocketers and Machine gunners. While having a single player option would have been a good idea, 
 Day of Defeat: Source clearly provides a fun online gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  This is just plain online fun. It has all the best qualities: Good graphics; good sound; great, 
 balanced gameplay and because it is not that well known, great players.
  
  What does he mean? you may ask. Well, what I'm getting at is that the more popular a game is the 
 more noobs and teamkillers you get, and as this is is not as well known as say the Call of Duty 
 online play or the Battlefield games you get a far batter team-playing experience out of it.
  
  This is one of the best points of DoD, online games are only as good as the people you are 
 playing with, where as on Battlefield 1942 most of the people on your team prefer to run around 
 on their own like headless chickens and playing the game more like Quake or Unreal Tournament. 
 Your teammates on DoD are much more likely, however, to use the built in squad commands, take cover, 
 offer you covering fire, know when to attack and when to defend and are just basically, more intellegent. 
 This is what makes the game so good.
  
  But it isn't just great players and balanced gameplay. The graphics, as you would expect from a 
 Source game are great but can also be played on almost any computer, and considering Source is 
 getting a little old now, the graphics are still up to the standard of most games coming out in 
 the near future. What is really good about Source, though, are the fantastic physics - the way 
 the ragdolls flop around after being hit is spectacuarily good and, unlike alot of ragdoll engines, 
 is not prone to awful errors. Other nice effects are the smoke grenades are up to CoD standards, 
 the explosions are big, fancy, but realistic, the weapons are pretty true to the real life versions 
 and the maps are incredibly well detailed and well designed, making for some truely intense fire 
 fights. And you may well think that having only a few maps and them all being city scapes it would 
 get boring... but it just doesn't! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: os008
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  If u played CoD2 or MoH, u'll instantly remember them when u first load a map in this game, guess 
 all WWII FPS r similar now.
  
  But this one has a distinct different feeling to it, it's much faster paced, nice game modes, and 
 very good GFX, HL2 Engine!
  
  The Community makes new Maps everyday, just look around and u'll find some.
  
  The game needs 
 team work just like any other Online game.
  
  The SFX r excellent, the effects r very good indeed.
  
  Also the Official maps r good sized, 
 though some r a bit small for the number of players.
  
  The Value is excellent, i got this with CSS and HL2DM for just 30$, can't get a better bargain 
 really! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironthor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is beyond belief. I've played lots of multiplayers, but this one hit the spot. Although 
 you cant get into tanks and fly aircrafts you can however be a sniper, fire off a machine gun and 
 roast people with a stick gernade! This multiplayer is a great game at a great buy. Every gamer 
 must try this game out, the close quarter battles and sniper fights are outstanding! There are 
 plenty of maps with the option of joining custom maps made by other players, which increases the 
 fun to a whole different level. The thing that makes this game so much fun is the fact that it 
 takes awhile to adjust to the gameplay, but when you learn you are a killer! Get yours today for 
 only 20 dollars! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 82ndRmilkman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 21, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  (Quoted from my Counter-Strike: Source Review)
  People might say oh man CSS sucks its so easy. This is the Excuse of a gamer who's computer can 
 not handle the awesomeness of The Source engine. (same goes for DOD: S) 
  
  this game is amazing well i will agree with the gamespot review that at its release there were 
 a lack of maps but Day of Defeat: Source and Counter-Strike: Source are all about the custom maps 
 the standard maps do get boring so people make customs maps to keep the interest and value of the 
 game high
  
  the game can get boring like i said in my CSS source review but if you have Both DOD: S and CSS 
 you can just jump between the two when they get boring a great game with awesome multiplayer ... 
 IF your computer can handle it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I must say the facelift of the old DoD is the biggest turn-ons for me.. It updates the graphics 
 to a solid multiplayer game. This game actually got me back to playing WWII shooters after years 
 of playing CoD and MOHAA. CoD 2 didn't even succeed in doing that! The great players have all switched 
 over so the challenge to be had in DoD: S is about as good as DoD was in its prime. Gamplay: You'll 
 feel right at home with the source engine! In fact it kills most WWII games in this respect. Graphics: 
 Excellent.. a revamp of it was needed and well appreciated
  
  Sound: Still doesn't compare to games like MOHAA and CoD/UO
  
  Value: Its multiplayer, how 
 long you stick with it is entirely up to you! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthonyuser
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME ROCKS! it is the only fully online ww2 shooter of it's kind that i know of. if u like 
 world war 2 you'll like this game. the graphics are amazing if you have a high end pc and the gameplay 
 is just unbeatable in my opinion. i would really like to see this game on the xbox 360 i think 
 it could reach out to a larger audiance. if you don't like this game something is seriously wrong 
 with you. well thats about it for this game. THE MIGHTY NAPTOWN NINJA HAS SPOKEN!
  
  ok now i'm just filling up space because i need one hundred words and i don't have that many for 
 this game because it's pretty much straight forward and hopefully this is enough words now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: count_frankenbe
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  The original DoD in many respects is superior to DoD: Source. The original game was much more fluid 
 in regards to game play and when you shot you felt that you knew exactly where the bullets were 
 going. In DoD: Source it's often a roll of the dice as to whether the bullets will be registered 
 by your opponent or a wall that you shoot at. The game was delayed many times before finally being 
 released and it shows in the feel of the game. The game looks good; i. e. background, dummy doll 
 effects, etc. However, as I said probably the biggest problem I have is with the hit recognition 
 system Valve employs. It's happened more than a few times where I've unloaded an entire clip right 
 in my opponents face without him taking any damage whatsoever. It can become quite frustrating, 
 and it is not uncommon to hear people complaining vehemently online that so and so didn't take 
 any damage. Lagging / high ping issues are another problem that takes away from the game play. 
 I run high-speed internet cable and a computer with good hardware and the game is still laggy. 
 Hacking (i. e. wall hacks, aimbots, and speed hacks) seem to be much more prevalent in this game, 
 which is another turnoff.
  
  In my opinion, if you want to play a superb WW2 fps game play CoD2 for these reasons. Besides it 
 having a great single player option, the game runs very smoothly in multiplayer; you feel that 
 what you shoot is getting recognised as a hit, and the game itself tries to normalise player advantages 
 such as latency issues to make it a more even playing field. Most importantly, a much larger gaming 
 community is available in CoD2 compared with DoD: S, which means more mods, more maps, more servers 
 to play on, and more people to play with.
  
  Bottom line... avoid DoD: S and get CoD2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classic7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: DoD: Source is a remake of the original released in 2003. It is a fast paced team based 
 shooter. It can take just one bullet too kill, something that counter-strike fans can't seem to 
 handle. The weapons are beautifully detailed and fire very realistically. But i have too admit 
 that you do go too fast and there is unrealistic kick back for all weapons.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are top notch. Using the source engine DoD looks as amazing as Half-Life2. 
 Textures are great characters are very well designed and lighting is perfect.
  
  Sound: The game lacks a soundtrack but the opening theme song is the best i've heard in years. 
 It just inspires you to go kick some ass. But i would still have liked a couple more songs, maybe 
 even the inclusion of the original theme.
  
  Value: The game seems to never get boring. The community is extreamly devoted and new mods and 
 maps are released all the time. Servers are fun and action packed, but sadly not as much as the 
 original.
  
  Tilt: Even from the original DoD never got the praise it rightfully deserved. Always in the shadow 
 of its illustrious older brother Counter-Strike. The greatest PC online team based shooter in history. 
 It is truly a Hidden Jewel of the industry.
  
  P. S. If you are a huge DoD fan you might not want to bother with this. Stick with 1.3. They took 
 all the German names for unites out and have taken certian weapons out. Trust me your better off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acmilanrocks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat rose to power in very much the same way as Counter-Strike. It began as a Half-Life 
 mod, but as it improved, and it's fan base grew larger, very soon Valve caught on and very quickly 
 it became retail - more than just a mod, but a game in itself. It then took it's place as the second 
 most popular franchise within the Half-Life community, with the exception of Half-Life itself.
 
  
  Years later Valve released Counter-Strike: Source - Counter-Strike ported to Valve's brand spanking 
 new Source engine. Day of Defeat, whilst not nearly as popular as Counter-Strike, and a large enough 
 following for Valve to decide to give it the Source makeover as well. After numerous delays (it 
 is Valve we are talking about here) , on the 26th September 2005, we had Day of Defeat: Source.
 
  
  Firstly, DoD: Source differs somewhat from CS: Source. CS: Source is referred to as a straight 
 port . Basically, Counter-Strike 1.6 with a new coat of paint, namely the Source engine. Whilst 
 originally DoD: Source was intended to be just that, the huge delays were down to the fact that 
 the DoD team had decided that DoD: Source was to be a complete remake using a better engine. Because 
 of this, I don't believe it fair to compare DoD 1.3 and DoD: Source, because they are essentially 
 two different games.
  
  At the day of release, the main critisism of DoD: Source was the fact that many felt it had shipped 
 in an unfinished state. It possessed only 4 maps, each based on only a single game mode, which 
 at that time, was the only game mode. This has since been doubled (8 maps and 2 game modes) , but 
 I will get to that later.
  
  I'll go through each of the 4 ratings (Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, Value) , as well as other stuff 
 I think you need to know at the end, so firstly, gameplay.
  
  When you enter a server for the first time you'll select which side you have to take, either Axis 
 (Germany) , or the U. S. Army (referred to as the Allies throughout) . The exclusion of the British 
 forces has come under scrutiny, but I don't believe it to relevant. Once you select a side you 
 select a class, out of the 6 possible. From there, you spawn, kill people, die, wait ~10 seconds 
 to respawn, etc.
  
  What perhaps differentiates DoD: Source from any other FPS is it's focus on teamwork. Quite simply, 
 the success in which a team has in working together and communicating effectively ultimately nearly 
 always decides on their overall success. It is quite simply not possible to be a Machine Gunner 
 and then run madly around a map and get 20 frags. Nor is it possible for a lone Assault soldier 
 to stay alive even for a short time.
  
  The fact of the matter is that each class has his/her own role to play. For example, a machine 
 gunner might provide cover for a group of rifleman/assault personnel to get from A to B, which 
 may involve capturing that flag for their team. A sniper may prove very useful while defending 
 a flag, but a lone sniper will quickly be spotted and killed. Another area in which DoD: Source 
 excells is that no class is overpowered. Take the sniper class for example. Often you'll find in 
 games that even a new player can lead the kills tally just by lying in wait and sniping people 
 who cross them. Instead, snipers in DoD: Source will experience swaying, making aiming far more 
 difficult. In addition, all classes are limited to a certain number.
  
  Machine guns are another weapon which has unlimited potential to be overpowered, but in fact isn't. 
 When mounted, the only gun more accurate is the sniper rifle. It packs 150 bullets, at a very fast 
 rate of fire. However, when unmounted, it's about as useless as a pea-shooter unless you can control 
 the recoil which is often about 45 degrees above where you originally intended to fire at. They 
 can only be mounted at objects like sandbags and anything else that is high enough, and because 
 of this, they are better used for holding positions, which they are damn good at.
  
  Each class has their own special purpose, and this may be off-putting for people who like to be 
 in the action all the time. As mentioned above, machine gunners are hugely deadly when holding 
 a flag/position, with the potential to mow down huge packs of soliders, but in attack, they simply 
 are not an option. And since limits are placed on the number of people per class, people who like 
 to attack might find themselves put off by the fact it's dead near impossible with that class.
 
  
  Teamwork is also re-inforced in the scoresheet. A player's position is firstly determined by the 
 number of objectives completed (see below) , and then number of kills.
  
  There are two game modes at present, one at release, and another that was released in early 2006. 
 The first, and by far the most popular, is territorial control. One each map there are 5 flags. 
 Often each side will start with 2, whilst there is one neutral map in the middle which has not 
 yet been captured. To win a round, all 5 flags must be captured by the opposing team. After this 
 happens, the losing side has the sudden inability to fire weapons and become sitting ducks for 
 the winners - kind of like a rub-it-in 30 second session.
  
  The second, the newest, and the least played, is Detonation, which in a way speaks for itself. 
 Since it's inception only 2 maps have been released for it, both of which in the majority of the 
 community's eye don't quite do justice to it.
  
  Next we have graphics. And they are, quite simply, stunning. There is no other word to describe 
 them. Valve have implemented HDR and other goodies which make the visuals amazing. In addition 
 to give the game an old WW2 feel, they have emplyed film grain effects at the start of a round 
 to give it that feel. Also, enviroments are extremely well done, all of which, especially the buildings 
 accurately reflect the time.
  
  The sound is also a big plus here. All of the guns sound great, and the atmosphere is further enhanced 
 by the sound of gunfire in the distance, and kinda of a haunted feeling about the places in which 
 you fight, all of which are cities upturned by violence and bomb sites. This is reflected in the 
 quiteness, and the emptiness of the wind. I'm not especially good at explaining audio effects, 
 but believe me when I say it is very believable and very fitting.
  
  I guess what it all comes down to though when choosing to buy a game is whether or not it's worth 
 the money. Let me firstly say that DoD: Source has absolutely no single player of any kind, whatsoever. 
 There are bots, but they are obviously just means of testing the game that Valve used as they have 
 no AI whatsoever, instead they just wander. They are good for target practice though. What also 
 might cut into it's value is the seeming lack of content. Had I reviewed this at release date I 
 wouldn't have given it a 9 with only 4 maps, but since then that figure has doubled.
  
  I gave it 9 as it only costs $20, so it's certainly not expensive. Add some more maps and it could 
 have easily gone for $40, such is the quality of everything else, including the 8 maps already 
 here. In addition, Valve's Steam service means that DoD: Source will continue to receive more content 
 for a little while yet, so expect to see at least 10 by the end of it, possibly an extra game mode, 
 and possibly other gameplay improvements and bug fixes (there are very few bugs though that I have 
 encountered, actually, I haven't encountered any as yet) . Valve's reputation ongoing support of 
 their newer games ensures that new content for DoD: Source is a certainty, for a little while anyway.
 
  
  But I guess that's my problem with this game: the fact that it's enourmous potential is left unforfilled 
 by the lack of content. The framework is there. The yummy chocolate exterior of the mars bar is 
 there. But the content in the form of maps, or the caramel inside isn't.
  
  Valve has a good reputation for support for the latest game. CS: Source was released in 2004, but 
 has recently received two massive gameplay changes and enhancements, in the short time span of 
 a matter of months. DoD: Source was released in 2005, and has since had 4 more maps, plus an extra 
 game mode, plus some fixes. Sounds good? It is. But. Yes their is a but. The last one was July 
 2006. It's January 2007 and while a member of the DoD team has said that DoD: Source is not forgotten, 
 only a single extra map has been promised.
  
  While there will continue to be extra content delievered for a game badly needing it, the extended 
 future, say, in 6 months time, is looking rather bleak. And this is down to the fact that DoD: 
 Source's player count doesn't compare to that of CS: Source. While I believe DoD: Source is far 
 superior, it is my belief that the lack of content, plus the unwillingness of a large portion of 
 the 1.3 community to upgrade, has serverely hurt it's growth.
  
  It is because of this player count, which is by no means low at all, but by nowhere near as high 
 as CS: Source's, that means Valve have obviously re-assessed their priorities, and unfortunately 
 for us, and this brlliant game, it is lower down. Add Episode Three and Team Fortress 2, and DoD: 
 Source isn't really a priority.
  
  In summation, this game is brilliant. If you want single player, don't buy it, as it doesn't have 
 a SP mode. It is however the best choice WW2 multiplayer game on the market. Whilst there will 
 always be support for bugs/game issues, it seems the flow of content is drying up, and very quickly, 
 which is bad news for a game that has everything but alot of content. Count on 2 extra maps and 
 some enhancements, although Valve might change their mindset. A brilliant game nevertheless, and 
 as far as I'm concerned, the finest WW2 multiplayer experience to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enesjusufi
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  First of all let me say that i am a BIG game freak... im 27 years old and have played every single 
 game from Doom 1 to Quake 4... from StarCraft to Warcraft and from Counter Strike to Battlefield 
 2.... and there is NO such thing as Its a matter of taste about which game you like the most.... 
 I gave BIG time to all of the games i played..... and There is no such thing, because you have 
 to FIRST become GOOD at that game and give at BIG try before you start giving it bad/good props.... 
 When you have become good at a game you will Realise how much FUN it is being GOOD at that game...... 
 What i am trying to say is that DAY OF DEFEAT : SOURCE is the most Entertaining game in GAME History 
 when you become GOOD at it... Especially when you are a PRO and have Clan games and such. Multiplayer 
 is what its all about and the action is NOT like Call Of Duty 2, Brothers in Arms where it becomes 
 very boring in Multiplayer....
  
  DOD: Source is specialised on MULTIPLAYER, compared to any other WW2 game.... therefore its much 
 better than any other WW2 because you will NEVER get bored once you have become good.... It will 
 grow on you and you will keep coming back... and back and back and back and back....
  
  BEST GAME EVER!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CWD-Brazil
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  At one point, everybody played Counter Strike, this is a give. Day of Defeat is like CS's little 
 brother, it didnt catch on quite as well as CS did but still attraced many people. Day Defeat has 
 to offer, more or less, the same fast-paced gameplay as CS did, with a different theme. Its based 
 on WWII and it sports several new features that havent been too widely used in the WWII fps genre.
 
  
  To start things off you have a sprint bar, which allows you to sprint at what seems like the fastest 
 anybody has run in a fps shooter. Fortunatly for those trying to shoot you down it runs out fairly 
 quickly, but dont worry: it refills slowly. DoD offers several classes, each class utilizes its 
 unique primary gun ranging from your average M1 Garand to your not-so average Grease Gun, which 
 is not commonly used in WWII games for an unknown reason. There are six different classes which 
 you can choose from. The Axis ( Germans ) follow the same premise, six classes, each one utilizing 
 unique primary weapon. DoD brings to play the heavy machine guns, which are highly innacurate when 
 fire from the hip, but extremely deadly when fire either in the prone position or when station 
 on several sandbags for support.
  
  DoD is played in Objective Format, one team ( either Axis or Allies ) tries to blow up an objetive 
 while the opposing force tries to protect the object of demolition. Often times fierce close-quarters 
 fire fights take place, grenades are exploding everywhere, keeping the gameplay very fast. The 
 music is no MoHAA soundtrack, but what it lacks in that department it makes up in the weapons and 
 explosions sounds. The weapons sounds are full and heavy, you feel like it is firing right next 
 to your head, none of the wimpy pow pow stuff. DoD offeres a very large multiplayer community which 
 come out with many new maps and mods frequently, keeping the game changing up a bit at all times. 
 WWII dont seem to get old and DoD retains that theory, i gurantee you it will not get boring to 
 play this game everday. I hope you enjoy this game and take everything it has to give, hope to 
 see you on the Battlefield. CwD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marinesniper70
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I remember seeing screen shots of the good ol' Day of Defeat. I couldent wait to get the game, 
 but my problem was the I was young and had a mother... who wouldent let me buy Half-Life. So I ended 
 up buy the retail version from Best Buy. I played that game all the time. Me and my friends had 
 hours of fun playing each other. So when I saw that DoD: Source came out I was pumped. This game 
 is full of awsome moments. The graphics make it that much more fun and the new physics is very 
 nice. The major downfall is the SMALL selection of maps, other than that I think its a very solid 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taiko88
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is like any FPS game. It is simple, to the point and nothing else really. You either 
 love it or you don't. Since this is a WW2 based game, many gamers who like this genre (since WWII 
 is a genre in itself) is a must pick. Although this game is based of the Source Engine, it has 
 it's own problems, but good as well. Lets start with the ever popular "scope-zoom effect", when 
 you hear about this you think, "Hey, great it will be like every other FPS". 
  
  Unfortunately, it isn't "all that and a bag of potato chips", whenever you "scope" you are enticed 
 with the wonderful animation of a man, bringing his weapon up and waiting to still bring it up, 
 and still waiting, and it's finally there. That is one main issue, that Valve seems to omit, from 
 ever patching up, as they think it is not a big deal. Well, you're wrong Valve, it is a problem, 
 especially when your in a big firefight, and have a rifle, for example, a M1 Garand, and you want 
 to scope in to blast away at the guy who is running across to reinforce his teammates, but you 
 can't because it is like you have arthritis. And as you wait for your animation to finish, he makes 
 it and you get shot by the machine gunner or many other men, that don't need to zoom in to kill 
 you. Another problem with the game is the recoil. Whenever you try to shoot a Sub-Machine Gun or 
 the BAR/MP 45 you get a massive recoil, of which you can barely keep straight. I had a hard time 
 alone trying to push my mouse down while firing. And, yes I know it is trying to be authentic, 
 but come on this is ridiculous, I don't want to be firing burst shots every time I see an opposing 
 player, I want to pump him full of lead. Sure recoiling is nice but Valve over does it, I mean 
 firing full auto is completely pointless unless you are laying down, even while crouching it is 
 pointless to fire; sure I want to be able to fire 10 bullets in a row, but not this way with my 
 gun after 5 bullets staring at the sky, I'm pretty sure that soldiers in WWII could keep their 
 gun straight after firing 10 rounds. 
  
  On a good note, the graphics are stunning, very realistic. As you fire you see a nice smoke cloud 
 come up you can see and hear the bullets whizz by your head as your run for cover. As well, you 
 can if you choose to run and gun, but it is best if you try to go slow, usually going out running 
 into the open will get a sniper bullet in your head or your body looking like swiss cheese from 
 the machine gunner over the hill or around the corner, so cover is your friend. There is some, 
 not a lot, of strategy in how you advance, going out in the open as I said before to capture a 
 flag will get you sniped or riddled full of bullets and you will ultimately be turned into swiss 
 cheese. 
  
  I would recommend this game if you are a World War 2 shooter fan, and loved the originals such 
 as Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, or any other WWII shooter such as the CoD franchise. This game 
 although has many bugs and flaws, in the end turns out to be quite a good little shooter, although 
 it is nothing more than multiplayer based game and does not offer you any type of single player. 
 And after all the multiplayer will keep you busy for a quite a while. Stay tuned for more of my 
 reviews. I give it a 8.0/10 GREAT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExTrazz-SeWICX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  DAY OF DEFEAT SOURCE This is a first-person shooter game witch take you back to the World-War 2.
 
  Day of Defeat Source also named DODS has a rich number of weapons from snipers, mg's', knifes, granades 
 and auto guns . The graphics is wonderfull with nice details and good maps , High details on guns 
 and buildings, the game has 2 different kinds of gameplay. 1. You go around on a map take over 
 the enemys flags and kill.
  2. You plant bombs on the enimys vehicles and destroy their main tanks.
  
  The game is a perfect 
 game for people who likes world war 2 and its
  effects.
  
  I would give the game a 9.6 out of 10 in points.
  
  SeWICX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timogrog
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  I always used to have it pre-downloaded or im my steam folder but never actually played on it. 
 Installed it a few months ago now and its awesome when you have a good team behind you - pro sniper 
 here hehe ! Weapons are cool and recoil can be annoying but is still quite good when you master 
 it - Ive grown to hate Counter Strike : Source, because you constantly screwing at the monitor 
 because somebodies lagged out and killed you or you've shot them 3 times point blank in the head 
 and they still don't die. But this is better as you die in a few shots and is just more fun to 
 play... Could have added in some vehicles perhaps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Unlike Counter-Strike Source which just updated the graphics and left the rest, Day of Defeat Source 
 took Day of Defeat and improved not just the graphics but other things as well.
  
  The graphics are very similar to other source engine games in respect to blood, and physics, the 
 real visual difference is in environments. That is not to say Day of Defeat looks bad, quite the 
 opposite, it look pretty damn good. I especially liked the many bits flying around after a grenade 
 goes off.
  
  Here is why I was more satisfied with Day of Defeat Source than Counter-Strike Source: They actually 
 changed things. Day of Defeat added a few new guns for starters, such as the Mauser for the Axis. 
 Also they added secondary functions for many of the weapons. Some were as subtle as being able 
 to punch, to other functions like launching grenades with the M1 Garand. They also added a lot 
 more recoil to many of the weapons, which was good. As much as I liked being able to go prone and 
 fire a whole clip of the Thompson at someone 50 feet away, it balances things out better like this.
 
  
  One of my problems with the Source version is they took the British out of the game completely. 
 I don't know why they did this, it was unnecessary and added nothing to the experience, in fact 
 it took away from it for me. Other than that the only real problem for me was the lack of stat 
 tracking, which doesn't really hurt the game experience, I just like my stats.
  
  Overall DOD Source is a worthy purchase and while keeping the good parts of the original, was able 
 to add on more to make it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 3, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  The original Day of Defeat was fantastic. As was the original Counter-strike. Unfortunately, Counter-strike: 
 Source was a tad dissapointment. Day of Defeat: Source however is a masterpiece! A lot has changed 
 though. The number of classes to choose from has been reduced. Some weapons have been subtracted, 
 and the weapons in the remaining classes have been fiddled with. But nothing negative, less you're 
 a huge fan of the Fg-42. The graphics have a great update, especially with lighting. The gun recoil 
 looks a whole lot better as well. Rather than your gun just hopping around the screen. There are 
 a few new maps that do a great deal of enjoyment to the mind. But the atmosphere that has been 
 added to the source version is just amazing. You hear the calls of war, the see the signs of war, 
 and you take cover.... because it's war. It feels so real. Hopefully Valve learned their lesson 
 with the previous 2 source updated games with this one, and will continue to make good progress 
 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  great level design, good graphics, classic gameplay, some good weapons, great sound, great price, 
 solid online preformance. good online community.
  
  THE BAD
  some boring feeling weapons, and a few lack luster sounds, online play is quite repetetive. to 
 few weapons.
  
  MY RANTINGS, THEY ARE LONG AND UNSPELL CHECKED, READ IF YOU DARE, OTHER WISE SKIP TO THE BREAK 
 DOWN
  
  day of defeat source is a classic arcady mohaa (medal of honor allied assualt) style multiplayer 
 game with one game mode ( two or three total game modes but you play mianly one) , the mian stay 
 one is a command and conquer style game in which there are usually 5 cature pionts and you need 
 to control all five at once to win. this is a good formula, but this game suffers from the same 
 problems as many of the games of old, and many of todays games as well, for a game that lets you 
 come back to life every 10-20 seconds on average, it forces you to run through the map to the front 
 line, after two to three hours of gameplay this becomes way to repetative for my tastes. especially 
 on the dday landing level. the gameplay consists of class based control piont combat. the problem 
 in this game with the classes is that they are all way to rigid, snipers can only sniper, machine 
 gunners can only be effective while stationary, the tompson assualt class is only good up close, 
 the BAR assualt class is well, barely usefull, the garand assualt class is overly long ranged, 
 almost a sniper, but with the ability to aim without iron sights, semi auto shooting, and a nade 
 launcher. some classes can flex or have things that make up for their short comings, but ultimately 
 you need a effective well oiled team, and i'll tell ya that is hard to find, firstly i don't recommend 
 playing without a headset since i found it made me into a instant looner on any good servre, there 
 for, i died since no one could coordinate with me. this rigid class based nature is fine if you 
 get with a good team and you work together, but agian it sucks that one bullet can kill you and 
 send you back to the start and destroy a good squad. to make up for this the devs made you online 
 avatar run at lightning speed, i mean you move pretty darn fast. some of the weapons feel great, 
 most notably the sniper rifle and machine gun, though i found that the lagging deployment for machine 
 gun, and iron sight for sniper, made them just as frustrating. i hate it when i'm setting up and 
 i can't fire till the deploy toggle finishes activating. a stationary machine gunner is inpervious 
 to all but nades, i mean those things will rip right through a squad in a second, this isn't a 
 battlefield machine gunner class, this gun could litterally slay a tightly clumped team in under 
 two seconds. the sniper is fantastic, with the penetration detection in the game i got a great 
 elimination though a door frame, i saw the awsome particle effects as the wood was shredded by 
 the bullet, and the blood spray from the impact in the targets head. the gore and ragdoll come 
 together to make sniping the most beautiful part of this game, that and the HDRL (high dynamic range 
 lighting) this game looks good, some parts look down right awsome, while others just look good, 
 like the character models i find them to be boring.
  
  BREAK DOWN
  
  GAMEPLAY
  i feel that though i find this part to be solid, i also find it lacking. it's kind ut 2004 onslaut 
 meets counterstrike, and is set in WWII. i wish that the tompson and bar felt better, and that 
 they didn't put a stupid firing rate limit on the garande.
  7
  GRAPHICS
  i really like this games graphical presentation, it's better i think than cs, though the character 
 models are more bland, the enviroments are better.
  9
  SOUND
  i really enjoy the sound, like the dynamic sound for machine guns, so you hear them echoing long 
 before you ever see them. the sound for nades and artillary is very good. most weapons have fantastic 
 sound to. exludingassualt rifles and smg's.
  10
  VALUE
  at twenty dollars this game is a steal, get it now if you like multiplayer shooters.
  10
  REVIEWER'S 
 TILT
  i really like this game, but i also find flaws and other short comings, i usually use this rating 
 to tweak the over all score to get what i want, remember this game is only twenty dollars, you'll 
 be hard pressed to find a better title at that price.
  8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gun-runner
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  In this reveiw my opinions may be a little one-sided since i have played this game for nearly 700 
 hours.
  The official maps for this game are quite fun indeed, them being:  
 they all give a wonderful sense of urban combat. The community is great, but it is falling verrrry 
 slowly :' (. You will also find LOTS of custom maps, the greatest in my opinion are Orange Fight 
 Arena and 4 Towers. The classes in this game are fun to, those being:  
 and rocket. However steam can be a letdown at times, sometimes the friends list wont work, sometimes 
 your favourites will disappear, but the good things about steam are: free weekends, disc isnt required 
 for everytime you play, and when the friends list is working you can join your friends game directly 
 through there.
  
  I STRONGLY reccommend you buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackerelmundee
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  This is just another WW2 game in a slightly different guise. This genre has been done to death. 
 When are game developers going to start delivering some new imaginative material. This game type 
 is becoming too tiresome. I'm personally fed up with having to fork out big bucks for game genres 
 that have been done to death. Its about time game developers started to deliver some real value 
 instead of just regurgitating stuff thats been done so may times before you don't even need to 
 bother doing the Tutorials because they're so predictable. So come on GDs start producing some 
 new stuff!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  My personal opinion is that DOD and DOD Source are THE most underrated online shooters on the market. 
 Though the game isn't as well known as the Battlefield or Counterstrike franchises, in m any ways 
 DODS is much better than them.
  
  Gameplay: DOD has, handsdown, the best infantry-on-infantry battles I've ever experianced in a 
 game. Some people may complain that lacks vehicles or that servers only hold 32 people at maximum, 
 but this is easily ignorable. The maps are fairly small and take place in urban enviroments, and 
 finding enemies and allies is usually never a problem thanks to team markers and a handy map. Even 
 games with less than twenty people are intense and fun. This is a infantry -combat-centered game, 
 and becasue of this combat is exciting and varied as squads of infantry face off in bombed out 
 buildings and streets. The game also encourages teamwork by limiting the amount of gear 1 person 
 can have and by giving you a fairly small amount of health; a couple shots from a machine gun or 
 even one shot from a rifle is enough to kill you. The gear you get is based on your class, and 
 each class has capabilities that another class may not have. A large squad of just assualt troops 
 will get their butts handed to them by a machine gun emplacement, but if they have a bazooka or 
 sniper with them the machine gun is toast. DOD Source uses the HL2 Source engine (which is why 
 it is called DOD Source) . The graphics are a huge upgrade in quality from the 1st DOD, and along 
 with imporved physics system the game looks much prettier and realistic. A bazooka shot will send 
 soldiers flying, and a sniper bullet will not only send you head over heels but also leave a pretty 
 bloodstain behind you. You only time you hear music in the game is when you first load the main 
 menu, and I found myself staying at the main menu for at least 5 minutes just listening to it. 
 The music is a mix of rousing military marches that send goosebumps up your flesh, and it gets 
 you revved up to kick some Nazi (or Ally) butt. The in-game sounds are great too; each gun has 
 a distinct sound , and every action produces a different sound, from reloading to sprinting to 
 taking bullet to the face.
  
  This games deserves way more credit and popularity that it gets, as it has long been in the shadow 
 of bigger titles like Battlefield 2 and CS. Though it may seem at first to be a limited experiance, 
 I promise you that it will provide teh most intense gameing experiance you've ever had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agent_jomamalol
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  this is a fun and popular ww2 game. you choose between allied and axis side plus you choose a class 
 like what armies do in real life. ain't that cool!? this is just like counter strike source, same 
 graphics but different gameplay. the difference is that you respawn like 10 seconds after you die, 
 you get to sprint, crawl, use radios, and kill the other team when you win; thats the fun part. 
 if you use teamwork, you will win! this is an addicting game with lots of maps and weapons! if 
 you want a regular first person shooter that doen't piss you off that much, this game is for you. 
 its funny at some point which you'll get to see when you buy the game. plus its really cheap, only 
 19.99! or for even more games that just add 10 bucks, buy the counter strike source multiplayer 
 pack for just 29.99! have fun shooting each other! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berghoff_1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 22, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  DoD: S is a nice improvement over the old classic DoD but it comes with some new problems.
  
  The Bad:
  
  One thing to mentions is the content, there are only a few levels but thank 
 valve for the few new maps and SDK as there are many superb maps out there. Also the British side 
 is completly gone, among some game-modes.
  
  Also the HUD feels like its made for a console game, it is totally in the way and distracts you 
 from the game which is in my opinion the biggest problem with this game. For example the who killed 
 who message can be very large. This could have been so much better. And even if you played for 
 hours, the tutorial messages keep appear each time you launch the game.
  
  The ironsight are also a bit weird. The sniperview aim shakes making it harder to hit the enemy 
 but the Garand and others don't shake at all! Whats up with that? I don't know either.
  
  The Good:
  
  Core gameplay is still intact from DoD which is a nice thing. This is one of the 
 first thing I liked. The speed is about the same, stamina and recoil.
  
  Physics are nice, you can for example block pathways with furniture so you can give the enemy a 
 hard time breaking trough. The player models don't go thru solid object anymore.
  
  And the maps are very nicely balanced making fights absolutly enjoyable. There are many smaller 
 routes in maps which makes the flanking of enemy possible but since the maps are somewhat small 
 these route automaticly can become choke-points sometimes.
  
  ---
  
  Overall DoD: S is a nice infantry WW2 arcade shooter if you like going online for a quick kill and 
 nice small battles this is a good game dispite the issues mentioned above which can get anoyying 
 sometimes. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 21, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  Well I may be a little late with this review but I make a point of writing a review of each game 
 I buy.
  
  I have to say that I was quite surprised with DODS and I only bought it because someone gave me 
 a gift voucher. I have never been a fan of Counterstrike, and whilst Half Life 2 is a good game, 
 I do think it was hyped out of all proportion, so I wasn't really expecting much from this title. 
 Notwithsatnding the fact I am sick to death of WWII shooters.
  
  That said DODS is great fun to play and sometimes quite addictive. It is very much along similar 
 lines to Call of Duty 2 multiplayer, but much much better and I cannot give a valid explanation 
 as to why.
  
  Sound is reasonable. Graphics are ok ( I never was a fan of Half Life 2 graphics - and remember 
 HL2 is now 2 years old) and COD2's graphics are substantially better. Nevertheless, for gameplay 
 DODS beats COD2 hands down.
  
  The downsides are very few maps. There are a few custom maps out there but they need long download 
 times from the server. What also is very annoying is that every server admin (much like counterstrike) 
 has the need to incorporate their own silly logos &amp; sound files which have to be downloaded 
 at the start of each game which again leads to long download times and waiting around. It is also 
 noticeable that in this day and age of advanced gaming that all of the action is on foot. You see 
 a tank parked up and want to jump into it and start blasting but can't (Guess I've been playing 
 too much Battlefield 2) .
  
  Anyway for the sake of &pound;15 DODS is good value for money and you will have a lot of fun along 
 the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqblackjesus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 21, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  Enhanced and remastered with the source engine DOD: S is a great example of a multiplayer FPS. I 
 Have this and counterstrike ready to go at all times. I like to play DOD when i want a change of 
 pace from CS and there is a difference in gameplay in both. I like the idea of having to pick a 
 class to play as in the 2 different factions of the game. I like how the weapons are realistically 
 depicted and I just like the overall feel of the game. I think its a must for any true FPS shooter 
 fan, and going to pick it up for 30 bucks as part of the CS source pack is a plus for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dowju
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  DoD: S has to be the most underrated and underappreciated competitive shooter on the market.
  
  It's balance alone makes it a far better game than the Battlefield series. The lack of vehicles 
 is a help rather than a hinderance as it levels the playing field and makes the results more dependant 
 on the player than the equipment.
  
  While it may share BF's capture and hold mechanic the smaller size of maps and lower player count, 
 coupled with defined routes to and from the flags gets players working in teams more often than 
 not, resulting in a highly enjoyable gaming experience.
  
  Sure DoD: S may have had a dearth of maps to begin with, but every map that has been added since 
 has been a welcome addition to the playlist. There is not a map that makes me go, "Oh God, please 
 vote nextmap...", well with the exception of Flash on a 32 player server...
  
  All in all DoD: S is one of the best competitive shooters on the market, that doesn't get anywhere 
 near the attention it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKS_74U
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Day Of Defeat is A classic mod for the game Half-life. Recently, Valve released a game called Day 
 Of Defeat Source (A half life 2 mod) . The games graphics are simply amazing, the HDR lighting is 
 great. The gameplay in DOD Source is also great. Its amazing when your beside a teammate and someone 
 unloads a clip into them and the ragdoll phyisics kick in. That is arguably the best part of the 
 game. For DOD source you may want to have an Above Decent Computer. i remember when I was using 
 a ATI x700 pro, 1 gb of ram, and 2.40 GHz Intel P4 processer a 418 pn one (Old) . I got Horrible 
 FPS in the game and it gets very annoying. If you play Counterstrike Source and use 512 mb of ram. 
 You may want to upgrade to 1 GB of Ram in order to play DOD Source.
  
  If you have a steam account you may want to check Day of Defeat Soruce out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocker500
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 13, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Story- 9/10: It does some decent re-creations of some famous WWII battles, and it's nice how they 
 added in a rifle for the Rocket troops, as opposed to only getting a Rocket Launcher for a primary 
 weapon like in the first Day of Defeat.
  
  Gameplay- 9/10: It doesn't take too long to get used to the way the game plays, assuming you've 
 played games based on the Half-Life engine before. They made a good class system, where you can 
 have a different loadout if you choose so, and you can take guns from dead people as well.
  
  Graphics- 10/10: They've come a long way since the original 2003 Day of Defeat release, and 
 to be honest, if you think these graphics are bad, you're a spoiled gamer.
  
  Sound- 9/10: The sounds are decent, they sound pretty realistic.
  
  Value- 9/10: You'll spend 
 a lot of time playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auriantitan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  My Opinion of the best WW2 game is probably Call of Duty 2. It has the best gameplay and a variety 
 of weapons and MANY more.
  Day of Defeat: Source is a must play WW2 game if you like to play Online. The gameplay is amazing 
 but not quite 10 material. Realism is also a major part in WW2 gaming design. Recoiling and many 
 more make this game like your actually there. One thing that bugs me is that many modern warfare 
 games can use vehicles. I say we should use vehicles in WW2; Shermans, Panzers, Tigers, Halftracks, 
 and many more and even use weapons lying on the battlefield like a AA gun, a 88m Flak, a Nebelwerfer. 
 The shooting is also amazing, with some weapons as never seen in other games before but actually 
 used in the real WW2. THE FINAL THINGS ABOUT THIS GAME; the balance of characters are HORRIBLE, 
 REPLUSIVE. Snipers mostly have the best advantage in the game. Next time, try making things better 
 too -- like Halo. Where they have a wide variety of weapons that make ppl -- not just snipe all the 
 time, but actually do rifle combat.
  The Graphics are nice, the textures of many things are a mess but most of them are clear and vivid. 
 The map design of the maps are orginal which is horrible in my opinion. Example, the Omaha is bland 
 and dull; there are no rocks on Omaha -- Omaha beach was a soft, smooth, golden beach with shingles 
 and cliffs.
  The Sound is amazing, just like Call of Duty 2! But some sounds of the guns are fake and not actually 
 the same or not even close to what they sound. The sound is also amazing with the background sounds, 
 from other players in a distants.
  My review of Day of Defeat: Source says this is a must play WW2 Online Shooters, it will leave 
 you with long-lasting awe, but not the best WW2 game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rassclart
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  When Day of Defeat Source was first released the biggest let down to plauge the game would be the 
 number of levels but levels come with time and number has grown to 8 official maps including the 
 2 which involve the new detonation mode which i will come back to. On top of these 8 maps are numerous 
 user created ones which are just as good if not better than the standard 8. This means that as 
 the number of maps grew the major flaw of the game dissolved into nothing. The visuals of this 
 game are stunning and take full advantage of the source engine which includes HDR lighting and 
 of course all the physics found when playing half life 2.
  When playing the game you are placed in the boots of either an axis or allied soldier and choose 
 from one of six classes of which each have different weapons and roles on the battlefield. These 
 roles include rifleman, assualt, support, sniper, machine gunner and rocketeer and all have the 
 task of capturing the enemy posistions or destroying strategic objects with explosives which depends 
 on the map you are playing. The game is won by either by capturing all of the posistions or by 
 destroying all of the enemy's objects and along the way obviously kill as many of the enemy as 
 possible. To achieve these objects you need to work as a team which is where each class has there 
 own role which can mainly be divided into either defense or attack and only with absolute teamwork 
 between the two can victory be achieved.
  To sum it all up this one hell of a game and one which even when i buy a new FPS doesnt stop me 
 from coming back to play it again, so i totaly reccomend this to any FPS fan and to make it even 
 better it comes with a great price tag so cant afford to not pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chuman231
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  DOD: source is a WWII FPS, that follows similar gameplay to the battlefield series. The objective 
 of the game is to capture various (3-5) flags spread among decisive and strategic points on the 
 map. The only downside of this game is that it has no drivable vehicles, but the game is usually 
 too fast paced for vehicles to be needed. when u die, you must wait for a respawn timer before 
 rejoining the combat.
  
  one of the few complaints i have about this game is that there are simply not enough maps in this 
 game. there are only around 9 official maps, along with some quality user-made maps. but the few 
 maps are very fun and anjoyable.
  
  the graphics in DOD source are detailed and relaistic. the graphics are far better than CS: source. 
 The sound is very realistic and adds a lot to the gameplay, you can hear bullets whizzing by as 
 you're shaken by the nearby grande.
  
  This game is both visually and playably amazing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver9563
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  this game to me is more fun then counter-strike. the action is more fast, and u dont have to wait 
 till the end of the match to come back to life. The idea of captureing areas and defending them 
 is pretty kick ass, and the new bomb planting maps put in at new fun to the game. i do have to 
 say this is one of my all time favorite first person shooters ever. it is also good for friends, 
 u can make clans, and get a server, and join leauges, and play for money or just for fun, u can 
 scrim against other ppl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangIT
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  Great gritty action. Sounds fantastic. From the clang of the M1, to the brrrrrp of the dreaded 
 MG42 in the distance, and the thump-thump of the thompson. It actually helps your situational awareness. 
 Is that an allies' gunfire around the corner or is it the enemey. Don't like the voice over ip 
 though, mostly dumb people making noises. Wish I can turn that off. Vastly improved looks with 
 the source engine. Balanced Ger vs US play. Definately a great remake. Just need more maps now. 
 I Can't stop playing. Give 2 trigger fingers up!
  
  hmmm, maybe a bayonet mod would be fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcman2005
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I got this expecting a mediocre game. I was desperate. But for 20 bucks, I bought myself over a 
 year's worth of entertainment, as i have been playing this since Like Feb of 05 (this review written 
 in July 06) !!! Yes, the weapons do have a lot of recoil, but i like that as it is more realistic. 
 The weapon accuracy is great, and realistic too. A k98 will hit its mark at 70 yds and an mp40 
 wil score 1 hit for 5 shots at that range, the classes are actually modeled from real weapons and 
 have similar performance to the real weapons. The maps are great; They are medium size, and full 
 of content... you will never get bored of all of them. The only thing is it takes patience to get 
 the hang of and learn to control the more-than-normal recoil. SO GET THIS GAME!!!! OR ELSE!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxdemix
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 6, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  When it comes down to it, there really are just too many WW2 games out there. WW2 has been milked 
 for every penny it has. However, a few of these games make some of the best of their genre. Day 
 of Defeat: Source is one of those. For only 20$ on Steam, you can get an FPS packed with as much 
 replay value as Counter-Strike.
  
  The game itself doesn't have too many different things to offer. There are only about 3 different 
 map types. Also, there are only a handful of maps as well. However, the custom map making tool 
 can help fix that problem, and for the most part it has. The gameplay has an amazing feel to it 
 though. The guns feel like they are perfectly articulated, and the physics from the source engine 
 provide an amazing experience. Not to mention that there are 6 different weapon setups on each 
 side, and each has a strength and weakness so you can figure out which weapon is the best to use 
 for the given situation.
  
  The graphics are a given. The source graphics are almost the best around, and they were the best 
 about 2 years ago. You have the ability to make them have low settings if your computer isn't that 
 great, or put them on very high if you feel that you can handle it. The guns, models and textures 
 are all just as great as HL2. The explosions aren't exactly the best, though. The effect that happens 
 when an explosion happens near you is a great addition. Even if a grenade is too far away to kill 
 you from the explosion, it will still knock you off equilibrium so it's hard to control your character 
 for a few seconds. I still feel that the graphics are a perfect balance and don't have the FPS 
 gouges that some games seem to have these days.
  
  The sound is where it's really at. I haven't played a FPS game to date that gives you the feel 
 of being there like DoD: Source does. The guns have amazingly realistic sounds that can really intimidate 
 the enemy. The sound of bullets whizzing right by your head, and a grenade exploding near you is 
 an amazing experience. There is a sound for every little thing, from bullet shells landing on the 
 floor from a .30 cal, to a grenade hitting a wall next to you then exploding in your lap. It really 
 helps provide that movie-like experience that this game seems to offer.
  
  All in all, the game is worth the money. It has a lot of replay value, a very good community, and 
 some amazing gameplay values to offer. You can also get competitive with the game and play in leagues 
 after joining a clan, or help build maps that fit your play-style. Day of Defeat: Source really 
 has that movie experience that you wont forget. The sounds, the graphics and the cohesive mechanics 
 wrapped together make for an experience that you will feel like telling your friends about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowth9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure we all agree that there is no better way to unwind than shooting Nazis, or Americans, 
 if you choose. In this new offering from valve, you get to do just that! In the following review 
 I will break the game down into the gameplay itself, the graphics, and the sound.
  Gameplay
  The game boils down to a conflict between two teams, the Americans and the Germans. 
 No Russians, Japanese, space aliens, anything. Most of the classes are balanced, although the allied 
 Garand needs either reduced recoil or more power to make it competitive with its German counterpart. 
 You can pick up any discarded primary weapon in the game, no matter what class you are. The weapons 
 themselves are varied in effectiveness, as they should be. This is all there is, though. There 
 are no engineers, medics, or any support classes. They still included a voice blurb for calling 
 a medic, for some reason. Recently, a new mode was added in addition to the vanilla capture the 
 flag, detonation. I find it way more fun. You can count on continued updates from valve, too, making 
 it well worth the $20. An 8.
  Graphics
  DOD: S uses the an improved version of the source engine, in that it supports full High Dynamic 
 range lighting in all maps. You can even use it in conjunction with anti-aliasing on nVidia hardware. 
 Speaking of hardware, you will need a pretty good system to run this game at full resolution with 
 all the eye candy cranked up. I use a 7900GT, 1GB of ram, and an old Prescott, which is more than 
 adequate. The effects of these visual settings are amazing. Even without all the embellishment, 
 it is still quite pleasant. I'll give it a 9.
  Sound
  The sound is pretty good, and immersive enough. The guns go blam and the explosions go boom, but 
 it is nowhere near the quality of BF2 in audio. I can't hold that against it, but it does make 
 it hard to give it a high score. How about a 7.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9 
  Sound: 7
  Overall: 8.5 (an average)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXBrazilManXx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 28, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  Day of Defeat: Source, a massive multi-player game set in a WWII environment is LOADS of fun. You 
 may already think it's good because it was made by Valve, but of course you need more information 
 before buying it. There are two sides you can choose the U. S. Army, and the Wehrmacht. None of 
 the sides have different objectives, both have the same job. You get in your team and choose a 
 class of soldier. You go out and try to capture all five territories. Once you capture all of them 
 your team wins. Of course the other team can capture one of your territories back to their team.
 
  
  Other than that mode there is the new mode presented by Valve called Detonation. Each team has 
 two vehicles somewhere on the map and the opposing team has to bomb the other team's vehicle. If 
 a bomb is planted on one of your vehicles you can defuse it. Sure a ton of other games have both 
 of these modes and you may think it's all the same. You're wrong! This game makes everything unique.
 
  
  Lets not forget the Source engine. Apart from the original Day of Defeat, this one is much better. 
 All the characteristics in the game got a major face-lift. Everything looks just so real with eye-popping 
 graphics. The world is surrounding you with top-quality sound. Plus, the gameplay is the best thing 
 you'll ever witness.
  
  Don't get me wrong, if you buy this game it will have you playing it all day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasc00
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is very well made, and is one of the best multiplayer games I've ever played. This is 
 the best World War 2 multiplayer game no doubt. If you own Call of duty 2, buy this game and you 
 will see the difference. It has no singleplayer, but still, multiplayer is amazing. 
  
  So anyways, let's start with graphics. Runs very well on my intergrated ATI RADEON XPRESS 200. 
 On medium settings I get around 40 fps, and on high settings 20 fps. Everything is very detailed, 
 and kind of historically accurate. 
  
  When you join the server, you are asked to join the Allied, or Axis forces. Classes are pretty 
 balanced, and the game is sort of realistic, but not too arcadey. It's fun, and people do communicate 
 in this game with voice chat.
  
  Sound is perfect. That's all I have too say. All world war 2 games have good sound anyways.
  
 
  Having only Sic official maps by the time I bought the game, and only 2 game modes, brings down 
 the value, but wtf it's awesome.
  
  If you like world war 2, buy this game....... if you don't like world war 2, buy this game still, 
 it'll change you mind... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kebn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Day of Defeat was origionally a mod for half life, valve rcently relesead the source version which 
 surpasses even the origional for several reasons.
  New maps are added for this game constantly, official and user made, very recently a new game mode 
 was added too, and there are also plans to add the british forces into the game, like in the origional.
 
  
  The gamespot reveiew is out of date really, origionally there only about 4 maps for the game, now 
 there are upward of a hundred if you look for them, if you dont have a map, fear not simply click 
 on the game playing the map and it will be downloaded while the game loads, this doesnt even take 
 that long.
  
  STORY - none, this is entirely online
  
  GAMEPLAY - this gameplay is fast, gritty and requires alot of skill to truely excell at it, the 
 different class system is similar to the battlefield games.
  There are NO vehicles in this game at all, almost all of the official maps in the game are set 
 in small, wartorn french villages so the level design is perfect for infantry battles and intense 
 firefights. The 2 sides (axis and allies) are perfectly balanced in both weapons and locations 
 making this a very fair game. Teamwork is a large part of this game, communication through headsets 
 is vital for success.
  The weapons in this game look and sound great, they just have that 'umpf' that is lacking in so 
 many games, and with the addition of blood in the game you get a real satisfaction everytime you 
 kill someone in this game (good enough to bring out the psycho in all of us) Turn your bass up 
 and just feel every shot fired.
  
  GRAPHICS - the game uses the famous source engine, used in half life 2 so the graphics and phisics 
 are superb and not too taxing on your pc. But i dont care about graphics at all.
  
  VALUE - excellent, very replayable game, maps added so often you'll never run out, updates aplenty. 
 My game came free with CS: source anyway.
  
  STABILITY - i have never had a major problem with this game, it has never crashed the lag is non 
 existant, and my pc isnt great, i am so impressed by how smoothly it runs while battlefield 2 crashes 
 on pretty much everyone everyday (bf2 - also great game) the loading times are really fast too.
 
  
  PROS - quick loading times, solid gameplay, awesome sound, tonnes of maps, wonderfully violent, 
 realist ic weapons and damages
  
  CONS - no vehicles (i prefer it but many will really miss them)
  
  all in all a truely A grade 
 game that takes alot of criticism but wrongfully so in my opinion, if you are unsure whether you 
 want to get this game, valve often hold 'free weekends' to encourage new players to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a hard game to grade since I like the genre, and I really liked the original Day of Defeat, 
 but that was the problem if it is a just graphical upgrade, I may be dissapointed, if it is changed 
 too much I would be concenred with the fast, in your face play style.
  
  Well , since deciding to rate this game after the latest patch, I am quite please that enough was 
 added, retooled , and changed without changing what made this game easy to become immersed in.
 
  
  Graphiically, DOD does take the full effect of the Half Life 2, (source) engine rendering some 
 very nice visuals, as well as not affecting the performance of the game. Unfortunately, charcter 
 models seem a little stiff, and the maps are too linear, so really no sneaking about , and choke 
 points are everywhere. 
  
  Sounds, is also pretty well done as expected, not as well as other games like Doom3 or FEAR, but 
 the difference in the genre, and the pace of the game probably would not be best since the game 
 isn't all about spooking, or even stealth so in DOD it would not be applicable.
  
  There are a mode called detonation mode, wnhere it is a psuedo-mission mode where one team is either 
 defending or, assaulting areas to destroy or capture objectives. This is a great mode, albeit it 
 is only available to a couple new maps.
  
  Overwise for its price, $20.00 US it is a great addition, for the amount of play you can get for 
 so much play is actually pretty nice. It is a great arcade-like game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mace8704
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game is amazing. The graphics are amazing with the HD lighting and the gameplay 
 is fun and addictive. The first thing that really caught my eye in this game were the amazing physics. 
 The physics are so in depth that when you shoot a soldier in the head, his helmet will fly off. 
 It is quite a sight to see. There are a good number of maps now that valve has had some time to 
 make some more since launch, and there are also new game modes two. 
  The first one is a capture the flag game type. It's similar to the Battlefield series except the 
 maps are much smaller so you spawn at your original spawn point after you die. One can also capture 
 the flags much quicker than in the Battlefield series, and some flags even require more than one 
 person to capture. After one team has captured all the flags, that team wins regardless of whether 
 or not people on the opposing team are still alive. 
  The second game type is a fairly new game type that has one setting bombs on certain objects while 
 the other team tries to prevent this. It is similar to Counter Strike except there are three targets 
 the bombing team must bomb and you have to blow up all of them not just one. The downside to this 
 game type is that it encourages camping for the defending team which can make things quite frustrating.
 
  Some additional thoughts on this game include 1) the sound is fantastic. 2) this game doesn't include 
 bots in the multiplayer so you'll always be playing with real people. 3) This is the best game 
 on Steam in my opinion. BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Day of Defeat: Source, a WWII Multi-Player only game by legendary game developer VALVe, the company 
 behind the half-life series. Day of Defeat: Source is a remake of the original half-life modification 
 using the source engine, famous for it's physics. The game has about 6 standard maps and two game 
 modes, this may seem lacking to FPS enthusiasts, once you play the game, you quickly forget about 
 this problem.
  
  The two game modes are a CTF type game and Demolition. In the CTF style game, theres are 5 flags 
 on the field, each team has two, and theres a neutral flag in the center of the map. Each team 
 must defend their respective flags, while trying to capture the neutral flag, and also the enemies.
 
  
  Demolition pits the two teams against eachother in a Search and Destroy style match, where each 
 team must destroy the other's Tank/Flak Gun. Even though it has only two game modes, you forget 
 about this once you play a few games. There are two teams in DoD: S, The Allies, and The Wearmacht 
 (Germans) each with the standard classes (Rifleman, Support, Machine Gunner, Sniper, Grenadier) 
 and each team can only have a limited amount of each, which was CoD2's shortfall, as almost everybody 
 picked Snipers...
  
  The game is pretty easygoing on system resources, 512mb RAM and ATi Radeon 9200 series would suffice 
 at medium to high... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RipTheJacker420
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I like it - But its almost to much - I find myself playing the Original Alot more. I. I like the 
 New map style with the health meters on it, and everthing Runs Smooth as ice on My AMD system, 
 Didnt play Very Well on my Celeron Laptop though HAHA - Go Figure-it met the system requirements 
 but if your PCi snt up to Grade Good luck Aiming --- Still - Maybe it will Grow on me.!. Im a Fan 
 of the First One so I hope They make a Classic version with more old fashion weapons and less WOW 
 graphics........... Overall Its a Good Game in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  when i play counter strike i have fun but wish there was some more action in it..... well valve 
 answered my prayers this game is all about close quaters and bullets flying everywhere and explosions 
 wiping out 3-4 people this game is extremely fun i dont know how many diffrent modes there are 
 in the game i only played 2 which is American and German forces capture command posts (you cant 
 spawn there) and who captures all of them wins this is fun because somtimes some of the CP say 
 you need 2 people and you and 2 other people can go next thing you know is they both got hit from 
 a sniper and you have to sit there like an open target the other mode is German forces or American 
 and somtimes both have to destroy an enemy tank, AA ,halftrack, and supply truck this is extremely 
 fun because you plant TNT and defend it if you die the enemies just defuse it and it goes on and 
 on it is a fun game the problem is in the beginging you will get your ass kicked an example is 
 you as a player can get a MG and plant it anywhere you want (as long as there is a ledge or sandbag 
 or you can lie on the floor which is ok) well some people are smart and plant it in windows or 
 corners or somewhere almost out of sight trust me you think you can spot a huge MG and you will 
 spot it when the player sprays you with over 100's of bullets i love this game it has action it 
 also reminds me of the call of duty 2 mulitplayer also the player classes are decent enough and 
 if you like valve or WW2 shooters you must play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatebugers
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  Just as the original Half-Life brought the unarguably amazing mod that is CS, HL2 brings us more. 
 Now when I saw that they were making DoD: S, I was not pleased. In fact, I was downright disappointed. 
 After playing the sluggish, indifferent CS: S, I only had bad expectations for the next Source mod.
 
  But after getting done with HL2, I honestly needed to feed my addiction that was the Source Engine. 
 So I picked this sweet title up for the budget price of $20.
  This is a "sequel" (just as CS: S is a "sequel" to CS) to the original Day of Defeat mod. And of 
 course, I had to compare. 
  The first thing I noticed is that many of the weapons have been removed. While with DoD there were 
 8 or 9 classes to choose from, DoD: S has only 6 per team, Rifle, Assault, Support, Sniper, Machine 
 Gunner, and Rocketeer. This is actually quite a plus, since it makes the class differences more 
 black and white instead of infinite amounts of grey.
  Just as in the original, the classes must work together to accomplish the task, which is unchanged 
 (go there and stand next to the flag!) . Machine Gunner mowing down everyone in their path? Riflemen 
 and Snipers better creep around that corner and snipe him. Sniper on the roof? Those guys with 
 the automatic weapons better flank his camping ass.
  Also like the original, the gameplay is quick, frantic and unforgiving. While you have to be careful 
 for every shot that comes at you, you're never out of a single game for too long. And at one point 
 you might feel as though you're the king of the server with your robust 9 kill rampage, be prepared 
 for the opposition to set up a hefty machine gun/sniper bunker around that last flag, all with 
 itchy-trigger-fingers.
  When I played DoD: S for the first time, it really felt good. The pace of it seemed like it was 
 on steroids, much more of an experience than CS: S was. It seems as if Valve got it's game straight 
 from CS: S and brought back what matters: brutal, rewarding ownage.
  The source engine does it's job of making everything look pretty. from the textures to the shaders 
 to the lighting, everything takes from what's good about HL2 and just makes it brighter. The physics 
 is great as well. There's nothing like catching some dirt-for-brains trying to run past your position, 
 then catching him in the head, then watching his helmet fly off as his lifeless body has a one-way 
 trip to floor-town. The physics also prove to be helpful, also. I can't tell you how many times 
 I've had to stick my ground as a nade was thrown at me, only for it to roll back down the hill 
 back at the enemy team.
  All in all, this is another stay up late, start to gain a little weight, lose your social life 
 kind of game, if you let it. It's fast paced gameplay allows it to eat up rediculous ammounts of 
 your time, so be wary. Addictive roads are ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: With a class system like Battlefield2, and the gameplay thats similar to Counter-Strike, 
 it makes this game kinda fun. The gameplay slows on even high end computors, witch is ok but it 
 gets a little annoing sometimes. 8
  
  Graphics: Looks almost exactly like Conter-Strike. Which is not a bad thing. The phyisics are a 
 little more realistic than Counter-Strike, which a good thing. 9
  
  Sound: Alot better than Counter-Strike. You hear bullets and you want to take cover or you know, 
 your dead. 10
  
  Value: Its a good game for a month or two, then I see myself uninstalling it. 7
  
  Tilt: Similar 
 to Counter Strike in alot of ways. But also more realistic. 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neocow5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  Finally, the second most popular mod for the original Half-Life gets its well-deserved port to 
 the source engine. The port changes a few key points from the original, but it still manages to 
 retain the classic Day of Defeat feel, while improving upon other aspects at the same time.
  
  Like the original, Day of Defeat: Source has the same basic game play. Americans take on the 
 Germans in some of the most intense combat ever found in gaming. There are now at least 9 official 
 maps in circulation, along with several custom player-made maps. There are also now 2 modes of 
 game play, a capture-point based system and a detonation mode.
  
  The capture-point mode consists of a spawn point, and several capture points along the way. In 
 order for your team to win, you must capture all of the points on the map. This mode offers a very 
 balanced gameplay situation, often ending in a near-stalemate.
  
  In detonation mode, your goal is to either destroy or protect an objective, and sometimes to do 
 both. As you can imagine, this can create some very chaotic gameplay. This mode is easier to win 
 or lose because both teams are trying to avoid their enemy. It all seems to come together and create 
 a very fun experience.
  
  There are several player classes on each side, and all have their own specific purpose. It's likely 
 they have one to fit your tastes. There are fewer than the original, and some have been "dumbed 
 down." This may disappoint a few of the senior players, but it really helps beginners to get into 
 the game. Overall, all the classes seem to be balanced.
  
  The graphic's are all up-to-date with the latest technology and hi-res textures. HDR and bloom 
 are built-in to the game, making environments extremely photo-realistic. All of the player models 
 are extremely well animated, so all of the movements seem fluid and life-like. All of the weapon 
 models are very well-done replica's of their real-world counterparts and most have a secondary 
 fire feature.
  
  The audio is also superb. The folks at Valve have blown me away once again, adding a new technology 
 called "depth of sound." This makes a distant gunshot actually echo and sound like it came from 
 far away. All of the weapon's sound are realistic, and the radio commands help make the game feel 
 like a real war zone. 
  
  Overall, Day of Defeat: Source is one of the most enjoyable on line experiences for the PC to date. 
 For the low price point and amount of content included, along with the great community, it's definitely 
 a game that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mule-Boy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 1, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  Day of Defeat Source is alot better than Counter-Strike Source. The game has better HDR lighting 
 and the levels are great fun to play through thousands of times. I got this game because it was 
 different to CSS. The game modes are, You have to capture all the flags on the battlefield to win 
 (Kind of like conquest on BattleField) and Bombing. In bombing you have to get the explosives from 
 the supply crate in the centre of the map while bullets wizz over your head and explosions go off. 
 Once you get the bombs you plants them on the objectives. The maps are great fun. My favourite 
 is Anzio, the beach on that map looks so cool. The game relys on teamwork more than CSS. You can 
 work as a team by having a sniper on the roof covering you while a heavy machine gun mows down 
 the guys running at you. The game is also far more realistic than CSS. The recoil is so realistic, 
 for example; the heavy machine gun needs to be placed on the ground of against a low wall to shoot 
 properly. Otherwise the gun is so hard to control. You look at the ground, squeeze off a few shots 
 then you are looking into the sky. It is insane. The explosions look great and the water and uniform 
 of soldiers is great to. 
  
  Good stuff:
  Great Graphics
  Kit Selection
  Fun and Replayable Levels
  Orginal Game Modes
  Fun Fun Fun!
  
  Bad Stuff:
  Not as many 
 people play online compared to CSS
  No bots for offline
  Difficult for new people (like myself)
  
  Day of Defeat Source is a must have for any WW2 gamer 
 or just a person who loves FPS games. I am really enjoying playing it and i bet you will too. NO 
 REGRETS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grope2
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  To be honest with you all i hated this game... i could have spend that money on something much more 
 enjoyable. The originals were amazing even after the sell by date, but when you renew something 
 old you always run the risk of 'over doing it' which is exactly what they have done here, the only 
 thing (i personally think) they needed to do was update the grapics, maybe even make some destuctable 
 scenery, update the way that they die (cant remeber what you call it) and update the weapons and 
 so on and so forth. The fact that they changed the map so it became confusing, they havent made 
 enough maps, the gameplay is slow and boring.... this is the perfect game if you want to go make 
 a sup of tea and come back with your player unharmed.... counter stike source however was a good 
 update to the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtrmgamer206
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 22, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  This is no ordinary WWII online team-based shooter. It is one of the most realistic (physics & 
 graphics wise) I have ever played. It is fun, and it makes you rely on your team members.
  
  This is made with the Source engine people! The graphics are amazing! The physics are very 
 good. It's fun to watch three soldiers fly backwards and hit a railing after a panzershrek blew 
 up in front of them. The sound is incredible! You can hear individual bulletts from an MG42 whiz 
 over your head.
  
  Gameplay, needless to say, is fun, fast-paced, and sometimes frustrating. The only complaint about 
 this game is that your crosshair does not go down after the kick of your gun. You have to pull 
 it down with your mouse as you shoot.
  
  Dispite this, Day of Defeat: Source is a very fun game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serialkillajoe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  lets make this quick,
  
  When Half Life 2 came out , it was an instant success, when this came out , i wanted it so bad 
 . You should stop reading this and go buy it. This is super-realistic, one shot kills alot. Very 
 hard when u start playing for your first time. When you play enough like i did , you start owning 
 and then it gets really fun. Overall a very good game
  
  ONE OF THE GREATST GAMES PLAYED TO DATE!
  
  Pros-  - just a 
 great game
  Con-Collsion Detection Overall best ww2 online game i have played to date , better than Medal of 
 Honor Allied assualt , better than Counter Strike , better than even Half life 2
  
  Get this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g0t12ic3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, yeah the gaming industry just seems to have enough WW2 shooters these days but for people 
 who remember DOD when it was first a Half-Life mod this is definitely worth a BUY. First and foremost 
 people need to know that this game is a Steam/ Valve game. What I mean by this is that it will 
 last you as long as the next engine Valve create comes out. Why? Because this game is only 20 dollars 
 and it's always constantly updated by Valve. This is important as Valve is able to introduce a 
 new gameplay called Destruction I believe and it will be released sometime soon near the end of 
 June. Also thanks to Valve's Steam system they also can add new maps to even more depth and replay 
 value with the game. Currently as of writing Valve has released about 6 official maps though there 
 are a myriad of user made maps available and automatically downloaded if you do not have them when 
 you join a server which are excellent and lets people create creative and occasionally magnificent 
 maps. The graphics in the game also do great justice being one of the first to incorporate a fully 
 working HDR lighting. For those who do not know what HDR is it stands for High Dynamic Ranging 
 in which the lighting always change from extremely bright or dark depending on the situation. Other 
 than that graphics expand for greater than other games as if you can find skins for DOD you can 
 literally change the whole face of the game which is quite fun as I have changed a couple myself. 
 Now for the sounds are excellent. Second of all when any type of explosion or gun is shot you can 
 hear from the background. What is so amazing by this is that it's the actual battle that is happening 
 real-time between players and is created by players unlike lets say COD 2 it's a wave noise and 
 not actual sounds that you are hearing. Lastly though is the gameplay which is the meat of any 
 game. Here is where it gets interesting. Even though many games have down different classes before 
 I have not yet seen an mg or bazooka class for the matter in any current WW2 game that is worth 
 mentioning. Also the weapons in the game is actually extremely well balanced featuring the main 
 weapons of choice. Each side also have there distinct disadvantages and advantages on their choice 
 of weaponry and how many players on each side. Unfortunately though all of these come with compromises 
 due to time constraints I suppose. Some notable changes from the original. MOST important is that 
 now rifles do not have a alt-fire melee function as they have been switched to precise aiming. 
 Also the smgs of the game has now been granted melee functions and bazookamen actually do not carry 
 pistols but instead a carbine for the U. S and some sort of auto-pistol for the Axis. Finally the 
 worst change they have made was completely removing the British from the game. All of this though 
 is still definitely worth a buy especially at the price of 20 bucks to this always changing game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorsaro
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  DOD: S offers some fast, and intense multiplayer action. I am a complete fan of anything WWII, and 
 this game is a good one.
  
  The game is very intese at times. While not completely tactical, this game still involves a bit 
 of strategizing. It all depends on the players who populate the server. It can be a run and gun 
 fest, or it can be a tactical stand off. If you want a complete realistic experience, with slow 
 flanking manuevers, try Red Orchestra. I, myself, am a fan of realism, and slower game speeds but 
 still find this game fun as hell, and completely entertaining. The game offers numers weapon classes 
 for each side. Allied kits are, Rifleman carrying an M1 Garand, Sniper carrying a Springfield, 
 Machine Gunner carrying a .30 caliber mounted machine gun, Support carrying the BAR, Assault carrying 
 the Thompson SMG, and the Bazooka kit which is accompanied by an M1 Carbine. The Axis Rifleman 
 carry a k98 bolt action rifle, Sniper carries the Scoped K96, Machine gunner has the MG42, Support 
 with the MP44 SMG, Assault with the MP40 SMG, and a Panzerschreck soldier rounding things out for 
 the Germans. Each kit features varied loadouts for grenades, and smoke grenades. Every gun in the 
 game has it's own accuracy settings. Each gun will take some time getting used to the kick and 
 fire rate. 
  
  Graphics:
  While not revolutionary in terms of looks, DOD: S is still a gorgeous game to behold. The maps are 
 well done and have lots of cool little details like planes in the sky and household products such 
 as bottles and plates in houses. Vegetation in the game looks great. The bloom effect adds an overall 
 sense of beauty to the game. Player models are accurate and animate fantastic. Although not to 
 as detailed as Call of Duty 2, the models still look fantastic and detailed. Particle effects from 
 explosions, smoke and dust from bullets hitting the ground look fantastic and add to the games 
 outstanding visuals. Of course, it uses the Source engine. This results in some awsome rag doll 
 effects. It's especially cool to watch bodies go limp after death and fall off window ledges or 
 rooftops. The only gripe I would have when it comes to visuals is the lack of detail in the weapon 
 models. They aren't horrible by any means, they just seem a bit dull compared to the vibrant environment.
 
  Sound:
  Sound is a solid point of the game as well. The battle ambiance isn't some pre-recorded firefight. 
 Instead, the speakers will be filled with real time battle noises from others firing their weapons. 
 Numerous voice commands are out your disposal and , for the most part, sound great. Some voices 
 sound a bit dull for being in the heat of battle. The 3D audio adds to the game as well. You can 
 hear which directions fire, or voice commands are coming from. While not completely accurate, the 
 sounds of the guns still sound great. The explosions are very well done and sound immense on a 
 sound system with a bit of bass.
  
  Controls:
  As in pretty much ever PC game on the market, the controls are completely customizable. Controlling 
 your soldier is a breeze. It will take some getting used to for memorizing voice command key paths. 
 One thing that I do not like is the amount of time it takes to aim down your iron sights. It seems 
 like an eternity for you to click the corresponding button and have your iron sights pop up. It 
 takes some time getting used to, but it still feels a bit slow no matter how much you play this 
 game. Another annoying thing is the clipping that occurs when you are in the middle of a group 
 of soldiers. If you run into someone, it gets a bit jerky and slow. I would also like to see a 
 bit more sprint time, but it seems reasonable given that the maps aren't huge. I have played pretty 
 much ever sinplge WWII FPS every made, and the Garand in this game, by far is the most cumbersome 
 to use. I try to practice with it, but become too frustrated with it and switch to another class. 
 Most people who play the game might disagree with me, but I feel the Garand is too hard to use. 
 Weapon kick is also present. Good luck on getting medium to long range kills with a full auto while 
 you hold the trigger. This game is geared more towards realism. Burst fire is a must if you do 
 not want your auto to kick straight up in the air. Sometimes, at close ranges, the bullet spray 
 can be a bit ridiculous. You can stand straight on a guy and unload a clip on him and it will not 
 kill him until halfway into the clip. This doesn't happen alot, but when it does, it is rather 
 annoying.
  
  Overall:
  DOD: S is a very strong game, and is worth every penny. The community for this game is large and 
 has a veteran sense resulting in the previous Day of Defeat. The game looks outstanding and sounds 
 fantastic. Controlling is a breeze as well. The lack of maps available at launch was something 
 that wasn't very impressive, but steadily, new maps are becoming available. Map wise, it is pretty 
 much urban combat. I would like to see some new variety (maybe some field maps, or bridges) . The 
 game gets to the point. It is fast paced, fun and intense. Multiplayer offers up to 32 players. 
 While complete realism fans, such as myself, desire a bit of tweaking to the game, it is still 
 an overall enjoyable, fun, and beautiful experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  in my opinion this blows counter strike out of the window, i think its better in every aspect so 
 if you like that game your sure to like this....
  now down to the nitty gritty.
  il start with the technicals. the graphics are fantastic, plain and simple. there is just something 
 about the visuals that i fell in love with straight away, even hough the maps are quite small (which 
 is good for game like this) the graphics really do catch our eye, especuially the water effects, 
 i know it doesnt really affect he game but the water effects ar the best i have ever seen.
  then there is the physics engine, this really makes the game realistic, the fact that you can shoot 
 off road signs and sometimes can shoot guns out of peoples hands just rocks. and seeing a squad 
 full of men run round the corner only to be followed by a bunch of helmets and rifles on the way 
 back really makes you giggle. you just cant help but laugh as you see multi8ple bodies flynig hrough 
 the air like socks as a result of a well placed grenade.
  the sounds too are quite impressive, i play it in surround so always know where gunfire is coming 
 from and whether it is being hot at me or not, another good way is to simply look around you as 
 you see dust flying up ad you can hear the quick snap as a bullet hits the wall next to you.
  thenv there is the general gameplay, this is excellent, the fighting s fast paced, and with all 
 the graphical jargon behind you it really makes a very realistic scene as you battle through the 
 streets with only a rifle and a few other weapons....
  i think there are some really clever ideas in this game too. the fact that you can pick up enemy 
 grenades and throw them back is really funny, also the way the guns work, how machine gunners can 
 only really shoot when mounte on a suface and the way the bullets spray yet are deadly accurate 
 when lying prone...
  this game just succeeds in every way for me so i recommend it to any online fps'er who just loves 
 fast paced, tense and merciless action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Van_Faulk
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 11, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  As I am a bif fan of ww2 games and First-person shooters, I have come to realise that Day of Defeat: 
 Source excitement.. has come to and end. Recent news has been that there is goin to be a map called 
 dod_Colmar if I'm correct. In this 'Colmar' Map you have to destro and AA gun with explosives. 
 But bar the wait up for that new map and gameplay. DoD Source has yet to have alot done. For example, 
 starting with weapons, Recoil.
  
  The recoil on the from the weapons is appauling. If you have DoD Source you can say that the 2 
 weapons that have the most recoil are the B. A. R. Allied support gun and the STG44 support for the 
 Axis Germans. You have to either crouch or go prone (Lie down) to get a good aim at your opponents. 
 You cannot run using these weapons and you may get 'owned' from the opposing force.
  
  The second thing I wanted to point out was the Accuracy of the 2 Assault weapons. The Thompson 
 and the MP40, the 2 main machine guns from the hot-headed teams. You can get a good few bullets 
 into the other players chest, but from-a-far like say.... a few feet you have to crouch or even 
 when you stand for that matter , the bullets just bounce around the players and your left with 
 a squashed skull from the enemy player.
  
  The third thing is the Rockets. Why do you walk slow with the rocket on your shoulder?!?!? I've 
 seen plent of war movie with the Germans or Allies runing around holding rockets and blowing the 
 hell out of each other.
  
  The fourth thing is the machine gun. Now... we all know that during the war the machine gunners 
 had a partner that had a stand.. and for that matter had the boxes of bullets and was the soptter 
 for the gunner! in Day of Defeat Source, where you are spectating the players, you cant see the 
 box of ammunition or the bullets coming into the gun. This is just plain redicoulus. The weapons 
 are one thing....
  
  The other thing I wanted to say were the maps/Player Models.
  
  The models.. should have be different depending on the player class. For example.. just like the 
 old DoD. Different Camoflauge and more voice commands would make the game alot more intreging. 
 The maps.... I'm not to impressed. dod_kalt for example has HDR... and its dull and snowing?! I'd 
 like to her the explanation for that...
  
  One more thing before I go..... I'm running on a Radeon 9800 PRO witch 1 GB of RAM... and the HDR 
 is still lagging on my computer.. Even on Bloom.. when I run outside the skips or it needs to catch 
 up on all the action thats happeneing. Whens its on full.. its a different story.
  
  All in all.. Day of Defeat Source can be a great game but alot of it seems to let you down.. If you 
 dont like this review or you want me to give a review on other games you want me to play. please 
 contatc me @  
  
  Thank You 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealthrodent
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Even to this day, when I've given up Source and my PC gaming lifestyle and taken on an Xbox 360, 
 I'll always look back and remember Counterstrike and Day of Defeat Source, Along with CS 1.6.
 
  
  Day of Defeat is one of those games thats Extremely addicting and full of moments you'll cherish 
 forever, like being pinned behind some sandbags with gunfire and explosions all around you and 
 picking up an enemies grenade and lobbing it back at them. Or having a sweet sniping position in 
 a bush where you can own everyone without being known. Or shooting a rocket into a window and having 
 ragdolls fly out everywhere. Or turning a corner to face an enemy point plank and shanking them 
 with a shovel. These moments are what make DoD: S one of the best shooters ever.
  
  The player made maps were also a huge part. Omaha, 4_towers, risk, battleships, and watever other 
 costum maps out there were sweet and gave the game alot of variety.
  
  Sprinting for a broken down wall while getting shot at and hearing the bullets wizz by and grenades 
 bounce near you while hearing commands like "MG upahead" and "flank left!" was a real treat and 
 hearing the German yelling which you couldn't understand added to the realism of the game. 
  
  The intensity and immersivness all add to the game.
  
  Although Call of Duty 2's singleplayer 
 is more realistic and intense, Day of Defeat's multiplayer (there is no singleplayer) Is way better 
 than CoD2's.
  Joining a 60 player game with no lagg is something special that I'll always remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dum_dum_626364
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Can you remember about 5 years back when Counter-Strike was still growing in popularity (and still 
 is) ? Deep back in the shadows while all of the attention was on CS, another Valve mod had it's 
 own fan base. This mod was called Day of Defeat. Now Valve has decided to move Day of Defeat, like 
 Counter-Strike, to the Source engine in hopes of finding the gamers out there who have yet to experience 
 the original mod. So now DoD is back and it's looking better than ever, revamped by the Source 
 engine. If you don't already know about this revolutionary, multiplayer exclusive, WWII mod, let 
 me tell you:
  
  Day of Defeat: Source (DoD: S for short) is a class-based World War II first-person-shooter that 
 is much like Counter-Strike in the sense that you can't take too many hits before dying. This isn't 
 necessarily a bad thing, seeing as how DoD franchise strives far more toward realism than its counterpart 
 CS. The developers at Valve do a number unique things to make the game look and feel a whole lot 
 more realistic than I have seen in any game this year. Some of these features include a stamina 
 bar which controls the quantity of which you sprint and jump, and needing to deploy a bipod for 
 the machine guns if you hope to have any accuracy at all. And for those of you who played the original 
 DoD and are still wondering, yes the German spade (shovel) makes a welcome return to Day of Defeat 
 and it never gets old beating some Allied troops across the face with a shovel.
  
  Before each match in Day of Defeat: Source you are prompted to pick your team (Axis/Wehrmacht or 
 Allies/U. S. Army) and then your player class. Each class on each team has it's own specific weapons 
 which help to keep every game different. The classes are as follows (via the DoD: S online manual) :
 
  
  Rifleman
  
  The Rifleman, aka "light infantry", is deadly at long range, though not as effective in close quarters. 
 The powerful German K98k is bolt action while the less lethal US M1 Garand is semi-automatic.
 
  
  + Long range weapon for precise shots
  + Long range rifle grenades
  + Secondary fire: Iron sight for greater accuracy and zoom
  
  Assault
  
  The Assault class 
 is extremely effective at close quarters and on the move. Can provide smoke cover for assaulting 
 entrenched positions such as snipers and machine gunners.
  
  + Short range weapons for assaults
  + Low power and recoil, fully automatic with low accuracy
 
  + Secondary fire: Punch
  
  Support
  
  With its multiple firing modes and two grenades, makes an excellent all around class.
  
  + 
 Medium range weapon for covering fire
  + Medium power and recoil, fully automatic with medium accuracy
  + Secondary fire: Semi-automatic 
 fire for greater accuracy 
  
  Sniper
  
  With its scope, the Sniper is deadly accurate at long range. Excellent for eliminating enemy machine 
 gunners.
  
  + Long range, high powered weapon for precise shots
  + Accurate when zoomed inaccurate when not
  + Secondary fire: Scope zoom 
  
  Machine Gunner
 
  
  When deployed, the Machine Gunner can lay down a large base of fire, but is vulnerable to flanking 
 attacks.
  
  + Long range weapon for defense
  + High power, accurate when deployed uncontrollable when not. The German MG42 has a high rate of 
 fire but can overheat. The US .30 cal has a much lower rate of fire but will not overheat.
  + Secondary fire: Deploys bipod on any level surface
  
  Rocket
  
  Fires explosive rockets 
 whose splash damage is effective against snipers and machine gunners. The blast from rocket explosions 
 will stun anyone they don't kill.
  
  + Long range weapon for removing hidden snipers or machine guns
  + High power, must deploy to 
 fire explosive rocket, vulnerable when deployed
  + Secondary fire: Deploy to shoot
  
  The one and only game mode for DoD: S is a type of domination mode. There are 5 flags placed strategically 
 throughout the maps and each team has to take control of all of the flags to win the round. Every 
 30 or so seconds, points are automatically counted up depending on which flags your team has under 
 its control and how long they have been there, in case there is need for a tie-breaker. This may 
 sound pretty simplistic, but when 2 good teams are going at it, one match can go on for hours without 
 anyone taking control of all the flags.
  
  Day of Defeat: Source does have its downsides though. For one, you're going to need to have just 
 recently bought a video card if you want to run the game at the default specifications. Sometimes 
 you won't be able to enjoy the game at even the lowest settings on some servers (I never thought 
 looking so good would be a bad thing) . Another let down is the fact that there are currently only 
 6 official maps to play on DoD: S. Luckily though, we have the mod community on our side that already 
 have plenty of maps to go around.
  
  Closing Comments:
  
  Day of Defeat: Source gives new life to the seemingly played out WWII FPS genre. I can easily recommend 
 it to anyone who is even remotely interested in first-person-shooters.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Fast and furious gameplay with a variety of weapons at your disposal.
  
 
  Graphics: 10/10
  Best I've seen to date.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Terrific weapon effects add to the experience.
  
  Value: 8/10
  For only $20 how can you go 
 wrong?
  
  Lasting Appeal: 7/10
  Unfortunately only one game mode won't last a lifetime.
  
  Overall: 9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best wart games and online-only game sI have ever played. Made by Valve, 
 the makers of Counter-Strike and Half Life. This game was justa great success in my mind. The choice 
 of soldier classes were pretty good. The maps, were great. Also, the graphics in the game were 
 just fantastic. I would recommend this game to anyone who has an online connction and loves shooters. 
 This is cheap too. It is just trruely amazing. The only thing I found disturbing were players online, 
 Just Kidding. They are all great guys. At $19.99! Get it now if your sane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lagamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Day of Defeat: Source is Valves update to the popular Day of Defeat. In this game they have added 
 a major graphics change and a change to the combat. But unlike many other WW2 shooters out there, 
 this one is more authenic and takes more skill. All the weapons have an added kick to them so you 
 cant just run and gun everywhere. Although some may like this others may not because it would be 
 too difficult for them.
  
  Like the other game this game focuses on foot combat. Throughout the maps are 5 capture points 
 in whihc each side, there are 2, the German and American side fight for. Each map has differnt 
 strategies for capturing the points and its usually very hard for you to get the upper hand on 
 the other team. Althouhg thisis very fun since the release only came with 4 maps, for those fo 
 you that bought the game right when it came out, you may become bored with the maps out. But there 
 are already maps in the making for it and there are maps coming out everyday.
  
  In DoD: S the gameplay is much faster now. Your footspeed and your defult footspeed is much faster 
 then the other game and the all around game is much faster paced which i personally think is much 
 better. Before you start to fight you must choose a character class though. There are 5 differtn 
 ones to choose from with differnt weapons on each side of the battle. Soem fo the weapons that 
 are included are bazzokas, machine guns, heavy machine guns, rifles, sniper rifles, and many others. 
 Certain classes are better at certain things though. Rifleman are better at long range then a machine 
 gunner and so on so forth. As is mentioned above this game does take great skill. Allthe weapons 
 have kick so you cant randomly fire around and kill people. Your gun will just shoot up.
  
  Now the graphics in this game, are very good. The source engine has rendered the WW2 models and 
 weapons very authenticly and realisticly. All the environments make you seem like your in Europe 
 during the war and the gun shots and bulltholes look and sound great. So if you have a not a very 
 good computer it might become a little choppy because of the graphical upgrades.
  
  The sound in this game is very good. All the weapons shots sound just like the real thing and you 
 can hear the other soldiers scream when they die and get hit with bullets. You can also access 
 quick commands on your keyboard and give commands to your teammates. For the American side its 
 in english and for the German side, they mad it in German which i think is pretty cool. You can 
 also hear planes going overhead and hear artilllery in the backround which adds to the authenicness 
 of the game 
  
  Now for some bad parts of this game. It can be very tedious and annoying at times and makes you 
 want to throw your mouse or hit something. Some of the weapon balance is bad too. Like the German 
 sides Rifleman has a one shot kill to the chest and th Americans has a 2 shot kill to the chest 
 but even though the Americans side can fire quicker i find it much more difficult. one last thing 
 is when you minimize the game it crashes which can be annoying but you if you dont minimize it 
 its fine
  
  All and all Day of Defeat: Source is a great update to Day of Defeat and is a defenite buy for 
 all you WW2 fans out there looking for a more challenging game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay I give a 10.0. It's about as fun as Counter-Strike Source. I think my favorite Multiplayer 
 in this game is capture points. Both teams constantly fighting to control all flags. Thats just 
 way to fun.
  Graphics are about as good as Counter Strike Source, which based on realism, I gave an 9.0. It 
 looks a little better than Counter-Strike source. Maybe its just the setting of the game.
  This game has a lot of official multiplayer maps, whic I like. I would play them more, as a lot 
 of community maps aren't very tastefull. Im not so hot on the simple boxed levels. There are some 
 fun maps I like though. But I like detail so simple maps Im not so into. FOr instance, I like the 
 maps that make you look like a toy soldier in a life size room or house.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameismatt123
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I never played the original DoD mod for Half-Life. I heard it was good, but then again my dads 
 PC was slow and I was content to just stick with my PS2 and PC withour internet. Skip ahead a few 
 years. I have just built a new, powerful PC, I have had internet for a while, and I have twenty 
 extra bucks on me at the moment. 
  
  I had been looking around for a new game that could oull me out of the battlefield 2 addiction 
 that I was going through and sure enough I read the review on GameSpot about DoD: S, the source 
 engine remake of DoD, the mod I had thought about earlier. I had played CS on the Xbox, and I knew 
 what Source Engine tech and some top Valve people could do to a gmae after playing CS: S and seeing 
 the vast improvement, so I gave DoD: S a chance. The download on Steam went great, and 20 minutes 
 later I was shooting away a German or American troops in a desperate fight for my life. Needless 
 to say it was a fight I didn't win often. The first thing that struck me about DoD: S was the way 
 the weapons and classes acted. The weapons where unlike any other WWII game Ihad played and they 
 packed huge amounts of recoil in them, and every weapon comlimented every other weapon so well 
 that one couldn't live without the other. For instance what would the rifleman class be without 
 the assault class clearing buildings for them, or the riflemans ability to make shots the assualt 
 can't. The support gunner class can lay down a hail of covering fire, but it isn' tmuch without 
 the sniper to pick off any would0be marksman able to hit the ginner before he can see them. The 
 classes working in harmony is the way to victory and this makes for a very different experience 
 from CoD2 with its run and gun every man for himself view of combat. The way the classes must work 
 together to capture and hold the points (all of them if a team expects to win) on the map is well 
 supported by good level design. The maps, although few in number, are clever and well planned, 
 making for a frantic and fast paced match. The sound and graphics are iceing on an already perfect 
 cake. The graphics, based on the source engine, are beautiful and easy on the your system to, and 
 the sound, although not as good as the breath-taking audio in CoD2, is superb and makes your feel 
 like your in the war. 
  
  Overall DoD: S is a nice departure from different WWII games with its great graphics, booming sound, 
 and varied gameplay. I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good multiplayer WWII game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treytakahashi
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 16, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  i gave it a 9.5, the only reson i have not stuck in the 0.5 points is well becouse
  they need to make more maps, but i have heared new ones are on thier way
  with tons of other 
 new goodies :)
  
  hey and remmmber guys it only costs like what $20 so what are you waiting for!
  
  its realy 
 nice how they took the old DoD maps and put them on source, all though the maps are a little different 
 its stil pretty much the same, a few thing were changed from the origonal's classes, 
  1. the B. A. R. dosent have a tripod, but a more useful semi auto mode
  2. the rocket class was 
 given the m1 carbine and the other axis thing
  3. the m1 carbine class and the auto nazi gun were taken out
  
  over all i say if your a valve 
 fan and you liked DoD you'll LOVE THIS GAME!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhitePenguin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Day Of Defeat was one of my favorite games ever because of the great maps, great graphics & sound, 
 and just the fun you had playing against other players.
  Now, DoD source gives you updated everything and brings even more to the table.
  
  The Story 
 - Well, there really isn't a story to this game, just that you are either on the Axis or Ally team 
 (Germans and Americans) . There are five flags, two for each team and a middle one, the game is 
 a simple Capture the Flag match, but much harder depending on who you play against in the world. 
 
  
  The Gameplay - You have your standard controls with things like flashlight, shoot, jump, crouch, 
 etc. But DoD has different classes ranging from the snipers to the the assault team. Each class 
 has a different set of weapons and gernades, so while you might be sniping , you can tell your 
 buddy with the machine-gun to capture the falg and you can cover him. There are many routes to 
 get to places in DoD maps, it's usually a main road and two different routes going to the left 
 and right. There are places to camp for snipers and there brushes to hide behind and many different 
 objects to take cover behind. But playing the game is just plain AWESOME!! It is just such a fun 
 game and it gets mega-addicting once you get the hang of the game. Just like riding a bike, you 
 have to practice to be perfect.
  
  The Graphics - Now just because it runs off the Source Engine, doesn't mean it has all the stuff 
 that Half-Life2 has but the game looks really good. The water effects are amazing, the buildings 
 are beautiful, the guns and characters looks great. The detail that Havok 3.0 gives means you can 
 target practice on anything and actually see if you hit it, you can even pop a couple of gernades 
 by a piano to block an enemys way into a room. Paintings can fall, chairs can explode, and your 
 buddies bodies can go flying if they get hit by a gernade or rocket. Its not the best looking game 
 in the world, but its still very, very pretty.
  
  The Sound - The Sound is great from the explositions to one of your buddies automated commands 
 telling you that theres a grenade where you're standing. Each team has a set of commands ranging 
 from "Go Go Go'" to "MG up ahead" to "I need backup". Its a very easy to work feature. Each guns 
 has their own sound and some of them you want to shoot just to hear that awesome gun sound. If 
 a gernade explodes near you, your vision will blur and your ears will start to ring. Just like 
 the graphics, the sound is full of rich detail.
  
  The Value - This game will last you for months and months because it is just such an amazing game 
 in so many ways and you are only paying about 20 dollars for it too, so it really is a bargain.
 
  
  Overall - DoD will always be one of my favorite games of all time because of all the great things 
 you can do in it. DoD will last you a LONG time and it's just such a fantastic game. So if you dont 
 have this game already, you really need to pick it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Well this is basicly like Day of Defeat just with out the Great graphics or the Rag Doll physics. 
 After going from Call of Duty 2 to DoD; Source it is hard to go back to the same old maps of CoD 
 2. This game is a great addition to the Souce seris. Valves make over of this game was great. The 
 fun rag doll physics are endless fun and the great graphics pull you even closer into the game. 
 But like other Steam games DoD is strictly Multiplayer only. 
  
  Now it is Germans against the Americans with the traditional weapons. The greanade launchers are 
 great and the weapon kits are fun. This game is more of the realistic World War II game.
  
  It is a great and a cheap game for endless fun. I reccomend it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynexx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  So there I was, sitting there playing counterstike, enjoying myself as I worked towards climbing 
 the top of the rankings on a couple of pub servers. I was, as so many are, addicted to the game.
 
  
  Then one day a Steam announcement came up: Day of Defeat Source free weekend. I thought to myself 
 what the heck, I like WWII, might as well try it. My goodness why in the world had I gone so long 
 without playing this game!
  
  Simple, the game concept is so simple: capture and hold all flags on the battlefield simultaneously, 
 while of course mowing down the germs or g. i.'s with 6 different weapon sets. You have your rifleman 
 (range, power, slow rate of fire) , assault (no range, low power, fast rate of fire, gernades and 
 smoke) , support (big automatic rifles with 30 round clips and a couple of grenades) , sniper (we 
 all want to be this one) , mg (high rate of fire and damage) and then the always famous rpg (missle 
 maniac) . 
  
  Fast Paced, let me tell you this your walking speed is faster than CS and then what do they do!? 
 They add a sprint button (handy for running past MG's) . Then when you die you respawn in like 10 
 seconds. This game never has dull moment.
  
  Fun, this FIrst Person Shooter takes alot of strategy and timing. You must work as a team to get 
 the goal accomplished. Which leads to alot of chating and making fun of people and just plain having 
 fun. There are only a couple of servers I frequent and it is nice to see familiar names everytime. 
 This game actually has a very tight niched little community.
  
  Addicted, I told you I was addicted to CS. About a week ago, I told myself I would go back and 
 play CS for an entire day and compare the two. After about and hour I couldn't take it anymore, 
 I had to go back and get some more DoD Source, I had to!
  
  So if you have a game addiction problem and you would like to get shot up in an incredible fast 
 paced realistic World War II first person shooter, I say definitely by this game it is worth the 
 money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8sardinr
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat has never received the publicity as games like Call Of Duty, our Medal Of Honor, 
 but it still manages to draw a fairly large fan base.
  
  Day of Defeat: Source, is a graphical update to the old DoD:1.6 . The game includes all the great 
 ragdoll physics that everyone loved in Half-Life 2, and a solid graphics engine. Although the graphics 
 are'nt revolutionary, its the gameplay that draws players.
  
  One key factor missing in the DoD series is a single player mode. So dont plan on buying this game 
 if you dont have a decent speed internet connection.
  
  DoD: S multiplayer plays out like a game of the popular Battlefield Conquest game mode. Players 
 are tasked with capturing flags strategically placed through-out the map. The play is face paced, 
 much like CS: S. If you are looking for a realistic WW2 Shooter you may want to look elsewhere, 
 although their are a few clans that enforce strategic play on their servers, you are more than 
 likely to be caught in a run and gun match.
  
  Weapon classes are broken down into; Rifleman, Assault (SMG) , Support, Machine Gun, Sniper, And 
 Rocket. The classes are self explainatory with the German and American sides each having their 
 respective weapons for each class. The problem arises in servers that do not have weapon restrictions, 
 where you have a large amount of rocket and sniper users, which ruins the overall flow of the game.
 
  
  All in all the game is a good buy for the $20-$30 price tag. With continueous updates from Valve, 
 and hundreads of user created maps and weapon skins, this game has a long life span ahead of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  I thought that CS: S was a great game, though it may have been very closwe to COunter Strike. The 
 game had some bad parts, like how it only had 4 maps, which really sucked, but at least they were 
 really fun.
  
  The graphics i thought weren't that great, things seemed a little blurry to me. But the gun animations, 
 and ragdoll were really great, and I for some reason just like seeing falling dead people, i know 
 kind of random but im sure that you have something even more weird. 
  
  The sound seemed a little weird, especially for the mg-34 or whatever, it sounded all muffled from 
 2 feet away.
  
  Overall i think it was alright, but maybe not quite worth the 20 dollars. If you wanna play Counter 
 Atrike in WWII just buy this, no differences really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JabbasChef
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  IF you like the world war 2 weapons and enviroments of cod and you like the gameplay of css this 
 game is for you.
  
  (gameplay) its counter strike world war 2 but its a little different than css. instead of having 
 1 life you respawn and you have to capture flag points bf2 style. it plays like counter-strike 
 doh its source. (graphics) great, awsome increadable like counter strike source if you want the 
 best experience you will need a good pc. (sound) just like cs great. (value) also increadable 30 
 bucks for dods css and hl2 deathmatch. 
  (final thoughts) this game is really fun to play but saddly the game really has died no one really 
 plays it anymore but if you can find a game you will have a great gaming experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Its weird because this is only an online game. I got it for $10, so its not too bad, but thats 
 not why your reading this...
  
  Day Of Defeat's Gameplay is solid. It isnt perfect, but it isnt bad. The maps are pretty good, 
 some are a little weak. The weapons are great, all the classics. Overall, the gameplay is solid.
 
  
  The graphics are like any other game. Nothing out of the ordinary.
  
  Sound is good. The explosions are what really stand out. When you yell out comands, they sound 
 pretty good.
  
  Overall, Day Of Defeat is a game for any WW2 online fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superfly045
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Throughout playing this game I recalled the hours i spent playing its predessessor for the original 
 hl game. DOD delivers on all fronts and should appeal to anyone who was a fan of the original dod.
 
  
  The best improvement DODS offers is the addition of the ragdoll physics engine, which made HL2 
 so popular.. This makes DOD seem that much more real.
  
  Some problems i had with this game were mainly changes that did not include things that made the 
 original dod that much more appealing.. Such as the bayonettes and melee attacks for the Rifleman 
 class. Although they were replaced with the highly effective "grenade launcher" it does not seem 
 to help much when confronted withan enemy 2 ft in front of you. Also the removal of the gore that 
 occured when you get completely owned by a grenade in the original dod is no longer in DODS instead 
 the character is sent extrememly high into the air.. Although this does provide humour for anyone 
 witnessing this happen.. it just doesnt seem real.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheeseboy321
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  If you have never played Day of Defeat before, then you are in for an awesome treat. Not only is 
 Day of Defeat Source the best WWII multiplayer game around, it's also better than most FPS games 
 out today. I've been playing this game since the beta days, and it has grown into an awesome game. 
 I would also say that this game surpasses Counter-Strike by far in every aspect. Mainly because 
 of the realism, and the fact that you don't have to wait 5 hours after you die. Ok, so it's not 
 that long, but spawning right after you die and getting right back into the action is a great thing. 
 Once you start playing you'll be hooked. From the beginning you will choose whether you want to 
 be on the Axis team or the Allies. From there you then choose your class and get a particular weapon. 
 For example, if you choose rifleman for the Allies, you get the Garrand. Each weapon has its own 
 ability, and using them in different situations is very fun. It is very satisfying to get a kill 
 with the rocket launcher. The maps in the game are awesome as well. When this game first came out, 
 there were only about 4 maps, and not I think it's around 6 or 7. Every one of them is greatly 
 designed and fun to play in. I sure hope that they bring more maps out too. The graphics and sound 
 in this game are superb as well. Top notch stuff from the beautiful steam engine. If you are an 
 FPS fan and enjoy playing online (this game has no single player) , then you will absolutely love 
 this game. If you're an avid CS player, then forget that game and come join the ranks of DoD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct133nu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  If your going to get a FPS, than get DoD: Souce. It is better than most you will play. It doesn't 
 have that single-players experience, which is why we only give it an 8.7. Whereas in reality it 
 is more like 9.5-9.9 multiplayer. I wish more people played this game. So, that more ladders would 
 come around and the competition could get fierce. Thats really why I only give it a 9.0. Otherwise 
 it would be much higher. Overall it's a great game to add to your collection, and who knows it 
 may become your favorite game, like it has for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geoffmaster505
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 20, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Things come and things go. DoD: S doesn't. This game has everything a WW2 lover would ever want, 
 except a single player aspect. This game is strictly player versus player (pvp) . If you have ever 
 played a First person shooter game on the computer, this is exactly the same, just different weapons 
 and control of your character. FPS games have always been my strong point. Nothing can stand in 
 the way of me. Well except those couple... hundred... deaths *rolls eyes*. So finally I'd like the 
 say, I personally think this game is amazing, and anyone that likes pvp, fps's and WW2 stuff, get 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2o35
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of WWII games like I am you've probably heard of, played, or wanted to play this 
 game. It definitely is not a waste of your time. If you have played the original Day of Defeat 
 then you should highly consider getting the more graphically appealing, highly immersive, DoD: Source. 
 
  
  Probably the greatest things about this game are the gorgeous graphics and visual effects. You 
 find yourself lost in this battle and almost want to stop and admire how great everything looks; 
 how each level is a piece of artwork and you get to experience it FPS style. If you're a person 
 who wants to have games with the best graphics, and you're also a fan of WWII games this game is 
 definitely for you.
  
  There are very few drawbacks of this game: One being that you need a fairly good computer to experience 
 the best of its graphical capabilities, and also, its sometimes hard to find a good server thats 
 enjoyable to play in. But those factors don't really deal with the game itself its merely your 
 own budget/choice.
  
  Not much to say about this game except it's very enjoyable and exciting.
  Another masterpiece 
 from Valve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adolecent
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat Source provides almost everything from the old DoD and throws in a few new updates. 
 The graphics in this game are pretty good, just what you would expect from the Source Engine. The 
 physics are extremly good, and very realistic most of the time. Altough it has a few updates, these 
 updates take away a few classes from the original. There is no grease gun class for Americans and 
 no repeating rifle for the germans and just one MG. That aside if you are a big fan of the series 
 like me, this game is the ticket and will have you playing for a very long time. Although it may 
 make you want to play the original just because nothing can beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehPizzaHut
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I think that this is an EXCELLENT game.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  I think that this game has great fast-paced gameplay. The maps aren't too big for small games, 
 nor too small for big games. There are plenty of little routes to go for -- not everything is just 
 out in the open. There can be plenty of close firefights in these corridors, but also sniping out 
 in the wide-open spaces. The only thing that dampens the gameplay is players that are a lot better 
 than you, campers, and, of course, team killers. There are no vehicles.
  The game only has one game-type, however. It's basically a territories game -- you stand around a 
 flag until it becomes your team's flag. Some flags take longer to capture, and some flags require 
 several people to capture.
  Something that's always bothered me is the inbalance between the Allied rifleman and the Axis rifleman. 
 The Allied riflemen get semi-autmoatic rifles, but the German riflemen have to cock their rifle 
 after each shot.
  
  Sound - 9
  The sound is great -- all the gun shots are realistic sounding and perfectly timed. There's also 
 atmospheric sound; if you listen, you'll hear distant explosions and other things. Also, if you're 
 far away from action, you'll still hear muffle guns hots and explosions. It all gives the game 
 a great atmospheric effect.
  
  Graphics - 8
  I'm not sure how to really describe graphics. It's on the Source engine, which should tell you 
 that the graphics are pretty good.
  
  Value - 10
  Yes, there's only 6 official maps out for it. But remember -- quality over quantity. Those maps are 
 six great maps. Plus there's TONS of excellent custom, player-made maps, so even if you get tired 
 of the six maps that come with the game, you'll still have plenty to do. For $20, this game definitely 
 gets a 10 in value from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePatinator
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 3, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  What happens when you get battlefield, add a whole lot more balance and speed, and then put together 
 in the source engine? Day of Defeat: Source, thats what!
  
  Day of Defeat was one of the best mods for half life, and like counterstrike, has now become an 
 official port into the source engine. What DoD: Source actually does is change the source engine 
 and make it play very differently. For a start, it puts you on teams and lets you respawn at regular 
 intervals, like Battlefield. But unlike battlefield, it has no vehicles and is comparatively incredibly 
 hectic.
  
  Basically, you choose between the American Army and the Whermach (Hitlers army) and then attempt 
 to capture all of the opponents points. Once you capture all the points you win the round. You 
 also get points for capturing, defending, ect. In each map, there are five points to capture, normally 
 in different areas and requiring different tactics to capture.
  
  Also simularly to Battlefield, it lets you choose your class. There is Rifleman, Assault, Support, 
 Sniper, Machine Gunner and Rocket. All weapons behave differently and require certain circumstances 
 to work well, and there is no "all rounder" gun. For example, assault's SMG style gun is completely 
 ineffective in long range, but in close range othing beats it. In a slightly different manner, 
 the machine gun works well in most situations, but is impossible to deploy under heavy fire and 
 makes you an easy target for any concealed snipers. It is for this increadibly good balancing that 
 you'll need more than one type of unit to win each battle.
  
  The maps are also outstandingly well made, and feature far more alternate routes, vantage points 
 and landmarks than you can poke a stick at, and you'll be forever experimenting to find a perfect 
 way of approaching the situation at hand. They also look fantastic, arguably far, far better than 
 both Half Life 2 and Counter Strike Source. Unfortunately, at this point in time there are only 
 6 official maps, but that should be enough to sustain anyone for quite some time.
  
  Day of Defeat: Source is, to put it simply, one of the most well balanced Multiplayer shooters out 
 there that is only slightly let down because of lack of maps, but that should get better eventually. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fierydemonx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game has 5 maps no including custom ones but overall this is a great game although I prefer 
 the Day of Defeat 1.6 more just for more maps! But this has great graphics and is definitely worth 
 the money! The game needs some more maps and guns and the sniping has huge recoil when you shoot 
 it making it harder. It is great for anyone who liked the original Day of Defeat! 
  a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a couldnt fit 100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E-Tiger
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat: Source is a must play... especially to the FPS addicted crowd and most definitely 
 the WWII FPS crowd.
  
  Intense multiplayer action pits the American's against the Germans... in very fast paced squad 
 level Multiplayer action. The premise is very simple... get the various "flags" under your teams 
 control... and you win.
  
  On a good server with players working together the game becomes a frantic, chaotic and wildly entertaining 
 battle Royale. Machine gunners and snipers will be the bane of the support (aka flag capture) teams 
 existence. 
  One of the few games to reward team play... and force a balance between the "camping/sniping" types 
 against the "Rambo" jump happy players. Both types can enjoy thier style... without either sytle 
 dominating the action.
  
  The standard maps (which are admittedly few) are all detailed with superb atmosphere... but with 
 no "safe" camping spots. There are always ways to eliminate the sniper nest by out flanking, using 
 smoke grenades... or with grenade attacks and covering fire to flush them out.
  
  Most maps have HDR (High Dynamic Range) lighting effects which adds another layer of realism to 
 the battles... on top of the superb physics engine which allows almost any object to be affected 
 by the destruction of battle. For example... a well placed grenade will explode sending the unfortunate 
 enemy soldier's corpse sailing thru the air one direction and barrels, buckets... and debris the 
 other. The Physics can be a good training mechanism to practice on as well. As a newbie... you 
 could connect to an empty server... and practice your aim on the plethora of targets... such as 
 paintings, chairs, buckets, barrels, cups, jugs... etc etc.
  
  That leads me to the arsenal... there are a series of six classes you can select each with limited 
 weaponry and abilities. You can select ... a rifleman, machine gunner, sniper, support machine 
 gunner, Bazooka man and a Heavy Machine gunner. Both side have basically the same weaponry... however 
 the handling of each is slightly different (amount of damage per shot, recoil on the weapon, amount 
 of ammo per clip... etc) . The kick back on most of the weapons means a squatting or prone shot will 
 be better placed than one on the run. 
  
  I highly recommend the game... and at $14.99 - $19.99 it is well worth the price.
  
  E
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdeath31
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I've played alot of multiplayer fps games ...................... I mean alot, but DOD source is 
 just one that just continues to be enjoyabel to me. The visuals are amazing and the sound is imaculate 
 aswell. The source engien just shines in this game and if you like fast class bases fps this game 
 is a great choice. Althought there is a minimal amount of maps available to play they are so well 
 designed that they're still enjoyable. I would pay more than $20 for this game but valve still 
 charged a respectible amount. You can also bet that there will be update and new levels that will 
 increase the replay value even more. I would recomend this game to any fan of WW2 multiplayer games, 
 Valve games, and class bases fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coegols
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This one isnt as addicting as counter-strike source or counter-strike 1.6, but it is a nice change 
 of style once in a while. The game is an easier multiplayer and the grafix are also nice. It takes 
 a pretty powerful PC to run it on high setting though. I myself only get about 30 fps average on 
 my 9800pro card. 
  This game is all about teamwork, if you're looking to just run around and kill stuff while accomplishing 
 nothing, this is the game for you. There is hardly any down time between deaths. 
  This game continuously get updated about every month to every other month, so bugs are constantly 
 getting fixed as well as new maps being released. 
  If you werent a fan of the older version, you wont like this one at all. If you did enjoy the original, 
 then check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyvasey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat: Source is just awesome. It does just about everything right. One of the prettiest 
 and most realistic graphics engines around is implemented very, very well. The basic gameplay is 
 very strategic, but is also chaotic and fast-paced at times. The game never has a dull moment. 
 Honestly, I'm not sure what else I need to say about the game. It's fun, challenging, and for only 
 $20 dollars can take days of your life away. It's some of the best multiplayer in any FPS and is 
 arguably the best multiplayer in a World War II genre. The only possible downside could be the 
 lack of bots like the ones used in Counter-Strike, but with such a great online experience you 
 won't need them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_werry_man
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun and addictive.........
  
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  
 
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
 
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
 
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
  
  sorry for the over posting, i have no more to say, and go get day of defeat source already... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grarap
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and to the point, as I have a game to play. DoD is the most immersive online 
 shooter I have played since CSS, and of course the two share many features. If you're reading this 
 review, then you probably know them and the differences between the games. Weapons are varied and 
 fun to use, the pace of some rounds can be fantastic, and crucially you are forced to work as a 
 team. No more camping FTW counter strike style. There are at least 2 levels of play in every map, 
 so you can count on a rifle grenade or a RPG coming your way. 
  
  To conclude, a masterpiece of gaming. The graphics look good on any rig, so don't worry about that. 
 Well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barbadus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  What can I say, I've been playing ever since the original beta came out for the original HL and 
 have been loving it ever since as buggy as it was back then... heck there wasn't even any recoil. 
 I know that WWII shooters have been played out to the bone but the playability and great gameplay 
 that DoD has to offer will keep you coming back for more. It's great! Nothing is more awesome than 
 going headlong into a fire fight as your friend infront of you takes a bullet to the head and you 
 see his helmet flying off towards you and his body falling limply to the ground and then you recover 
 with your quick cat-like reflexes and avenge your friend's death by planting one right in the enemies 
 head as you watch, very pleased with yourself, as his limp body falls up against some sand bags. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arc_Angel2k4
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat: Source is the worst thing they could have done to the DoD series (they only have 
 2 out) DoD was a classic and gave CS a run for its money on popularity and had the run of the show 
 before CoD or Battile field 1942. DoD source has many probs first being that the maps are small 
 and not well planed because it is hard not to get killed if your not a newb (there are spots in 
 maps that a person like me can rack up 30 kills before they change their route) there is a lack 
 of medium player because pros and newbs play this game and that is it. Seriously play CS source 
 or Get COD2 of you want a WW2 FPS dont go with DoD but based on the overall game wityhout my biases 
 i will give a good rateing. If you want a good WW 2 FPS i mean it stick with DoD 1 or go with CoD 
 2 hey if you wana try DoD source give it a shot its a free weekend this week to pre load it for 
 all those people who dont read the steam update news. (02/08/06) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nanpanda
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  I waited and got my hopes up very high for dod: s and when it came out i played donner and i was 
 please with some of the new features liek being able to look down the iron site of your rifle.
 
  
  But the map was very differnt and i felt taking away the rain and making it day time made the map 
 less quility than the old map. Also with this new version it was out with the old and in with the 
 new because many features of the old one arent in there anymore many of the weapons have disaperd
 
  and i layed flash and they dont have the britesh anymore!!!! which was a real downfall 
  
  altough it sounds liek im saying with more improvments this game would be better than the old one 
 that isnt the case when i play this game i sjut dont get the atmospheric feeling i get on dod 1.6. 
 the game play jsut isnt a good and the weapons jsut seems a bit rubbish now 
  
  i wouldnt recommend buyingthis game i woudl reccomend dod 1.6 still over dod: s
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThE_soCks
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  When I first played dod it was back in 1.3. I would play it for hours on end. Then counter strike 
 source came out i thought, how good would DoD be if it was Source. My wish came true, most people 
 complain about lack of maps.
  If you complain about the time it takes to release it, then you complain about lack of maps, when 
 the reason that is, is because people pressured Valve into releasing it early.
  Off that subject the game is amazing, when i played source, i chose a garand, because i owned with 
 a garand back in 1.3, the only slight downfall is that automatic weapons have a slight advantage 
 other than that its fantastic!
  
  I say, it may only have 6 maps at the moment, but more will come, i personally can't wait for chemille 
 (if they make a source version of it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalshotput
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  When i first picked up the original Day of Defeat i didnt leave my computer for days on end. I 
 was dubious of the new Day of Defeat for fear of it not being as good as its predecessor. Once 
 i finally got it , though, i was instantly satisfied and it blew my mind with the excellent gameplay 
 and sound. The new ambient sound, switched from loops pre-recorded sound to actual real time sound, 
 made the experience that much better. The graphics and physics are a nice adjustment that gives 
 the gameplay, once again, that welcome edge. I strongly encourage anyone who liked the old Day 
 of Defeat to definately pick this game up. An instant classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  this game is soo awsome personally i tink its bettr than cs source in some ways liek the physics 
 engine and the player models look a lot better to
  and the feel of weapons and sounds are awosme except lack of maps but they have been adding them 
 so this game is getting better by the day!! This game also has many servers running so it makes 
 it very easy to find a game. What i like most of the game is how realistic is it with how u have 
 to set up to shoot a heavy machine gun or bazooka i find that to be really awosme .So in a nutshell 
 i would reccomend this game to any firstperson shooter fan ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 19, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a sweet game. It is so much better than counter-strike source which just says that you 
 should buy this game individually. I love it so much! I've spent at least 20 hours playing it and 
 I've only had it for a week! With a choice of about 10 different WW2 weapons, you'll never get 
 bored! The graphics are amazing, this gameplay is awesome and to top it all off... I poo my pants 
 everytime at the beggining of the level when the German guys speak German really fast! I hope Valve 
 comes up with another game like this because at the rate I'm going, i'll be bored of it in like 
 3 months. Lets see, 20 a week times 15 weeks equals 300 hours of gameplay! If that isn't good value 
 for a 20 dollar game, then I don't know what is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mx2-option
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Yet again, another World War 2 FPS, but this time, it's actually not a disapointment. Contrary 
 to "classics" like Call of Duty (which actually blows) Day Of Defeat: Source is a true classic. 
 The gameplay is absolutely perfect, the objective: capture and control all of the 5 capture flags 
 at the same time. Completly rad. The new source engine is MADE for Day Of Defeat, it's just awsome. 
 The audio sounds exactly what i would of thought World War 2 would sound like, and hey, it's free 
 when you buy Counter-Strike: Source (another rad game) . What more could you ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djaisi_dude
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I did not intend to actually purchase Day of Defeat: Source (DOD: S) , but it came bundled with some 
 other games I downloaded from steam (Half-life 2 etc.) . The weird thing is 3 weeks later and I 
 have hardly touched the games I originally intended to purchase and cant stop playing DOD: S. 
 
  
  The most compelling thing about the game is its team based nature and realistic game mechanics. 
 I have never been a huge fan of first-person shooters as an online experience because of quake, 
 which I found to favor lightning fast reflexes over tactics. I also found the death-match concept 
 to be somewhat lacking in long term satisfaction. DOD: S has you work as a member of a team, combining 
 the advantages and disadvantages of your respective equipment setups, to achieve the objective. 
 It is a very satisfying experience to help cover your team mate with suppressive fire while he 
 charges the objective. The penalty for death is not as steep as in some other shooters such as 
 counter-strike. I have spent many hours waiting for a round to end because I was gunned down in 
 the opening shootout of a match. Ok this may be because I am lame, but in DOD: S you are back in 
 the fight sooner to learn from your mistakes. And to any other keyboard gumbys out there you do 
 improve eventually with this game. 
  
  The thing I like most about DOD: S are the guns. Unlike some games, where everyone uses (or wishes 
 they were using) the same 1 or 2 guns, each of the weapons in DOD: S has their own strengths and 
 weaknesses. Which you choose is often dictated by the map you are playing on or the problem you 
 are currently presented with. I feel this reflects real life, and is a refreshing change from games 
 like counter-strike (or quake) where everyone seems to use either the sniper rifle or the AK/M-16 
 (lightning or rail) . There are times, on open free flowing maps, when it is better to have a bolt 
 action rifle over the sub-machine gun. Weapon balance is great as are their animations and sounds.
 
  
  The graphics in DOD: S do not disappoint. While they are not as impressive as Half-life 2, which 
 is surprising considering they share the same basic graphics engine, they are still very nice. 
 Light and dark are handled very well and take their place as strategic factors. It is possible 
 to hide out of sight in a darkened doorway in order to surprise the other team. And your muzzle 
 flash will give you away when you shoot. The physics are good, but the environments are not as 
 interactive as I was expecting. Perhaps this is a limitation of the graphics engine but a little 
 more debris flying would only add to the realism.
  
  On the music front there is not much to report, there is very little music other than a victory 
 anthem when a match reaches its conclusion. I personally dont think this is a problem because 
 sometimes I find the use of music in games intrusive. That said many of the servers out there play 
 tracks constantly. Sometime this is great, other times annoying. 
  
  I have noticed one of the greatest criticism of DOD: S has been the lack of maps. There are only 
 5 or so official maps. That said there are literally oodles of community made maps. Some of these 
 are remakes of old Day of Defeat (DOD) maps, others are new. Some are serious, some are hilarious. 
 I have played one where the map was a massive toilet and the players were the size of gnomes running 
 around all over it. Some of these custom maps a terrific, many are lame. I dont know why but I 
 seem to encounter a lot of sniper friendly maps and very few assault friendly maps. I think this 
 may be because they are much easier to make. The point is if you dont like the map you can always 
 switch servers.
  
  If you are looking for a fun shooter that rewards teamwork then it is not hard to recommend DOD: S. 
 If the sight of a hyperactive 13yr old running and jumping backwards and still making head shots 
 from the other side of the map does not impress then perhaps DOD: S is for you. It is a slower style 
 of play and it has a more realistic edge. It does not have any offline mode, and does lack official 
 maps but this has not made the game repetitive in my experience and the price tag is commensurably 
 lower.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taviner2006
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  Yes, DoD Source has finally been released, with the kind people from Valve and Steam giving us 
 our moneys worth.
  
  The extremely revolutionary Source engine has totally converted this game into something unreal, 
 Blisteringly Amazing Visuals, Physics, and an all round sense of great World War 2 action!
  
  Despite the dismissal of the Axis version of the Ally carbine, DoD: S offers the Panzerschrect 
 class a new sidearm - the automatic luger pistol, a rapid firing and deadly close range weapon! 
 
  
  On top of that, both the Axis and Ally Rifleman class now has 2 special abilities - the ability 
 to look down the iron sight of the gun for greater accuracy and the ability to shoot a small but 
 deadly grenade from their rifles which offers a longer range grenade throwing distance with better 
 effects - perfect for flushing out snipers of mg positions without risking your health!
  
  Also, both the Axis and Ally Rocket Launcher classes now play a more important role in the game, 
 the rockets hurt you if they land and explode near you, unlike dod 1.3, this allows an easy way 
 to kill snipers or take out mg nests.
  
  DoD: S now also has a whole new voice command list with a very impressive and realistic result - 
 when outdoors the call of the enemies or your team mates echo, or when indoors the voices around 
 you sound identical to what they would when you are indoors in real life.
  
  DoD: S has also left the Axis secondary machine gun behind - the smaller version of the MG-42 which 
 was a good gun, but not very popular amongst many.
  
  The STG-44 and BAR machine guns now have 2 modes of fire - semi or full automatic which offer 2 
 modes off accuracy - semi for greater or full for poorer.
  
  And the last great addition added is with the Thompson and MP40 sub machine guns - the secondary 
 fire allows you to simply smash your opponent in the face with your fist !! There is nothing quite 
 like the sound of the Axis sniper screaming out in pain as you smash his skull in with your bare 
 hands !!
  
  HIGHS - Amazing graphics, awesome physics engine, totally believable to the eye, mixed variety 
 of maps, HIT BOXES THAT ACTUALLY WORK - DAMN YOU CSS!!!
  
  LOWS - In order to get the true WW2 feeling you should really have a high spec system with a reasonably 
 powerful graphics card. Lack of maps, fewer guns : (
  
  The Last Word - Dont pass on the oppurtunity to get this game, truly immersive in the WW2 genres, 
 once you begin to play you will not want to stop I guarantee it !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcosio82
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Well I cant say enough about WW2 FPS's but DOD has a special place in my heart, especially with 
 the new source engine. The simplicity WW2 combat is what I really love, when I'm not in the mood 
 to bear down on enemies with sophisticated weaponry DOD is where its at. The new DOD with the source 
 engine is fast paced and eager to enable a frag fest for you and your friends. The rich detail 
 in the city maps is great. Weapon models as well as player models look great. I find the most stimulating 
 aspect is the great rag doll effect you get from the game. If your a WW2 fan go out and get it.... now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajykMatt
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  if this game had a skirmish mode, then id up the score, because maybe it would be more enjoyable 
 playin with yourself rather than with rouge going do it yourself punks. the internet play could 
 have been alot more... there is no team play in this game what so ever, everyone is rouge and doing 
 their own thing, this game is meant to be played as a team, but i guess no one in this world can 
 seem to comprehend that, but if the people i played with werent such idiots, then maybe this could 
 be as good as counter strike.
  but if per say that i played in a room with people who actually stuck as a team and had brains, 
 then i would have had a better view of this game, but i did rate it based on if i were to have 
 played in a room with people like this, because no two matches are the same, therefore ill rate 
 it deservingly. the gameplay is ok, the weapons are very weak and inaccurate, it seems more of 
 luck with each kill then skill. which is a big let down. but overall, it has huge potential, and 
 i might get lucky one day and stumble upon a game filled with minded people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernaine
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat: Source was to be a graphical upgrade to the Half-Life mod Day of Defeat. It took 
 quite a long time in developement and even had a few delays, and Day of Defeat actually amounted 
 quite a bit of hype through it's development. And, all things considered, it delivers on many of 
 the things it promised.
  
  For those of you who haven't played the original Day of Defeat it is a strictly multiplayer game 
 that focuses on the capturing of flags in order to win. That's the basis of the game. But, Day 
 of Defeat is one of Valve's more team oriented games. Players can choose from a variety of classes 
 and players must work together in order to win. 
  
  The gameplay has greatly changed from the original Day of Defeat. You can die from two shots from 
 a rifle and a matter of seconds of sustained fire from a machine gun. This helps to prevent anyone 
 player from dominating the game. That will cause you to work together with other players in order 
 to survive. 
  
  One of the greatest things that has been implemented into the game is the new HDR technology. This 
 technology is designed to create more realistic lighting and sky effects. This really helps to 
 create an amount of realism in the game. Also Valve has since then announced they will implement 
 new graphical technologies into the game. Such as, Motion Blur, Depth of Field, and Film Grain 
 effects. This will help to give the game a much more cinematic feel. 
  
  The physics engine has also been put to good work. The effect of a machine gun sweeping out a soldiers 
 leg from under him is so well done and makes the game much more believable. 
  
  The sound is superb in the game and the sound of a heavy machine gun firing in the distance is 
 incredibly well captured. And all of the guns sound incredibly powerful. 
  
  There are a few problems with the game though. The recoil can be a dramatic problem and guns can 
 become uncontrollable unless in a prone or crouched position. Although this may help to balance 
 gameplay it can feel over done. This may make the game seem very difficult to a new player and 
 may turn them off. 
  
  Also at the time of writing this some of the weapons felt unbalanced. Particularly the rifles. 
 The U. S. rifle is semi-automatic, but does very little damage. Where as the German rifle is bolt 
 action and is usually a one or at the most two hit kill.
  
  But despite it's flaws I thoroughly enjoyed this game. It feels very refreshing with it's gameplay. 
 Especially with the World War 2 genre full of generic shooters and rts games. And, if you can stick 
 with it and learn the ropes, I'm sure you'll find a very enjoyable game that will provide a fairly 
 unique game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy31315
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  OK first i will tell you the only thing bad with this game. Thats the lack of maps. Other than 
 that, i have nothing but praise for this game. The graphics are stunning. I knew i liked this game 
 when i was running down an alleyway with someone else and at the end of the long alley, there was 
 a muzzle flash in the darkness; my friend's helmet flew off and he went down with blood on the 
 wall. Luckily i got some cover before the sniper could fire again. The game is just simply fun. 
 The only other thing people might not like is some of the maps are kinda "one sided" where the 
 map favours either the axis or the allies. Also the guns arn't the most accurate but getting prone 
 and crouchign helps on that. It also makes you fire in short bursts or find a good spot to fire 
 prone from. With the amazing graphics, addictive gameplay, and cool features like rank and stuff; 
 this game is a must have for any WW2/FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormsinyourbrai
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:32 pm PT
Review:  DOD Source is to Warfare what the Sim's was to college girls. I prebought it whit anticipation 
 and have nill to no reservations at all. I would give it a 9.6 on the kick ass factor. Find someone 
 who has it and play awhile then you will know the true character of the game. If you start with 
 a single shot rifle take some time getting compfortable with it able time right click aim then 
 move to the next rifle. You can learn to appreciate the various advantages of each weapon. The 
 thing I hear alot of whining about is the I want to be a sniper crybaby stuff. I f you follow a 
 sniper around when he is shot press G and pick up his rifle. I have seen as many as 10 snipers 
 on one side using the old watchem die method. I like to play DOD in the late afternoon with a strong 
 cup of joe! I find it helps me relax and sleep better. I also find a couple of good rounds helps 
 the old Sex life!!! Victory works that way on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grass21
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 5:52 pm PT
Review:  When I was searching for games to buy, I came across Day of Defeat Source. I had played the original 
 which had average graphics but there was a major connection issue. When I saw the screens I knew 
 I wanted this game. I am a hardcore multiplayer fanatic. Single player really means nothing to 
 me so I naturally found this a good game. I am also a world war II fan so I was quite surprised 
 that they had authentic sounds, and weapons. At first there was a map issue, but many custom maps 
 and new Valve maps have been made so there is a variety of places to frag. In conclusion, if you 
 have 20 dollars, spend it on Day of Defeat Source first!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dying_Honor
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Well designed maps, immersive gameplay.
  
  The Bad: Game favors automatics, lack of maps with release.
  
  This game is souly based on 
 multiplayer action and does not even try to touch base with including a story mode. But in the 
 multiplayer you take control of an infantry soldier of the U. S. or the German Wehrmacht. There 
 are a total of six classes for each side. Rifleman, Assault, Support, Sniper, Machine Gunner, and 
 Bazooka. The object of the game is to fight your teams' way to capture all of the flags on the 
 map. This basic formula is used by many World War 2 shooters, but the other elements of the game 
 set it apart from any other.
  
  The gameplay is very fast-paced, your player can run pretty fast as it is. But you can also sprint 
 to go even faster for a period of time before you become fatigued, this is represented by a sprint 
 meter. You also have a map that can help you find your current position, flag position, teammates, 
 and main routes. Buildings in this game is greatly done, as you can enter most of the buildings 
 on the map, each room filled with furniture and other objects, almost all of which can be destroyed; 
 making you feel more like you're actually in a World War 2 setting.
  
  The way the guns and their classes work are based on a rock, paper, scissors formula. Each weapons 
 class having it's strong points, but also a weakness that is exploited by a different weapons class. 
 For example the U. S. Thompson has a fast rate of fire, but can be countered by the German K98k, 
 which lacks the fast rate of fire, but delivers more damage per shot than the Thompson. The stats 
 of each weapon can be seen in the class selection menu. Although the weapon classes are suppose 
 to be even, the game still favors automatics over the single shot weapons, which is not fair to 
 lovers of the M1 Garand and the Springfield. But something that makes up for that is the throwback 
 option. Unlike other World War 2 shooters, this game lets players pick up thrown grenades, and 
 throw them back. Possibly allowing a player to live and kill the original owner of the grenade, 
 but this can still be countered by choking a grenade to a certain point before throwing it. I've 
 played many World War 2 games, and I must say that Day of Defeat: Source has the best gameplay 
 of it's type.
  
  The graphics are self-explanatory, it's ran by the Source engine, the same engine that Half-Life 
 2 and Counter-Strike: Source is ran on. Meaning good graphics. The game is a little rougher on 
 lower quality video cards and you're going to need a nice system if you don't have the best video 
 card. The blood splatter is amazing and other effects like dust that is kicked up by bullets hitting 
 the ground and the smoke from smoke grenades is beautiful. I definitely give this game props for 
 it's graphics power.
  
  The sound is extraordinary. You can hear everything perfectly, from the crack of a bullet flying 
 by your head, to the ping of a Springfield round hitting the helmet of a soldier. The sound of 
 a far off MG42 claiming it's victims, to the sound of smoke escaping from it's grenade. I must 
 say that hearing everything that is going on, helps you find a fight very quickly, just follow 
 the sound of gun fire. There is nothing flawed about the sound in this game.
  
  This game made me feel like I was actually there during World War 2. It captured the gameplay right 
 and looked great. The sound sealed the deal, by making sure that you felt like you were there on 
 the front lines getting shot at. Although the lack of content at release and the favoring of automatics, 
 stops this game from being everything it could have been; it still makes it to the list of best 
 World War 2 shooters and is definitely worth the twenty bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinhin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  HI SHINHIND HERE; I AM A FPS NUT I HAVE PLAYED ALMOST EVERY THING. I AM ALSO A SOLDIER AND TAKE 
 MY WW2 GAMEING VERY SERIOUS, AND SOMEHOW I GET PULLED BACK TO DOD EVERY TIME. IS IT THAT DOD IS 
 THE ONLY ONLINE TO HAVE PORTABLE GPMGS', OR IS IT THAT THEY USED THE AWSOME SOURCE ENGINE. WHATEVER 
 IT IS IT GRABS MY ATTENTION AND PROPELS IT. WATCHING THE BODIES PILED UP IN TIGHT HALL WAYS ALWAYS 
 SET OFF ALARMS IN MY HEAD WHEN RUNNING AROUND IN THE WELL MODELED HOUSES AND TOWNS. WATCHING AN 
 ENEMY PLAYER HIT THE DIRT FROM A GPMG BURST ON A DEAD RUN ALWAYS MAKES ME LAUGH EVEN IF IT IS ME. 
 THE PHYSICS ARE GREAT; IT ADDED A FRESH NEW FEEL TO A GAME THAT EVERY ONE LOVES. ITS A CHEAPLY 
 PRICED GAME AT 20 BONES, BUT IN CANADA I HAD TO SEARCH TO FIND IT EB GAMES DID NOT EVEN KNOW IT 
 WAS OUT, AND THEY THOUGH I WAS ASKING ABOUT THE OLD DOD, SO I LOOKED FAR AND WIDE AND FOUND IT 
 AT THE FUTURE SHOP WITH COUNTER STRIKE SOURCEBOOO" FOR 40 BONES.
  SO GRAB YOUR BOOTS TROOP!! THIS GAME IS A WINNER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peter_rafterman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 17, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat: Source, is a faithful follow up to Day of Defeat. There isn't much to say about 
 this game, the graphics are pretty, the weapon sounds are frighteningly realistic and the game 
 play is faithful to the original. The Game Spot review is correct when it states that a few of 
 the choices made with classes are a bit strange, but only the melee weapons; so really, who cares? 
 I think it's irrelevant that there are only 4 maps to the game, for Valve were under a lot of pressure 
 to release this, it had been 11 months since DoD S had been added to the "coming soon" list, and 
 fans were beginning to grow impatient. And Valve always release more maps for the games they release 
 on a good basis. However I do have a problem with two of the maps in certain conditions. In Avalanche 
 and Flash, the gameplay is hectic when there are more than oh about 24 players. In Flash; Hand 
 Grenades explode every second, and machine gunners thrive in population, which leads to bullets 
 flying everywhere. In Avalanche, it's just the grenades that are annoying, they are everywhere, 
 bang after bang, kill after kill, I have chosen not to go into these two maps when player numbers 
 are too high. These problems are trivial, considering that these problems do not occur over about 
 70% of the time. All things considered, this game is fun, challenging and will give you a nice 
 clean rush. Just give valve a chance to release some maps before we down grade the game for good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThunderballerRE
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:21 am PT
Review:  With an updated version of the cult hit Day of Defeat using a ramped up version of the source engine. 
 But is it good?
  
  Well the answer is yes.
  
  I'm not going to go into much detail with this review but ill give some questions and gerneral 
 attributes.
  
  Questions?
  
  Do you like World War 2?
  Do you like fast pace gameplay?
  Do you like great graphics?
  Do you like an challenging games?
 
  
  If you answered yes to all of them, do your self a favor and buy/install (steam) this game.... NOW
 
  
  Scorings....
  
  Gameplay- Its very fun i mean its so sick like picking up a cooking grenade and throwing it back 
 to the person. But its just TOOOO hard for beginners
  
  Graphics- Lets see you know Half life 2 and counter strike source? of course you do. It's that 
 but even better.
  
  Sound- 5 words.... Amazing
  
  
  Im just covering that for this 
 review...
  
  Overall if you like WW2 (MP only) 
  
  BUY IT NOW... .DONT KEEP READING BUY IT.... WHY ARE YOU STILL READING GO... SHEW.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffAhola112
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The original dod in my mind was great. With Source, it makes this game even better. If you have 
 even a somewhat interest in world war 2, get on steam and get this game. The only downside to dod 
 source, is the lack of maps, although Steam just released Argentan, im sure maps like Caen will 
 be released asap. Value is easily the best when it comes to dod source. The only reason i have 
 broadband today is to play this game... yeah its that important. In my opinion there has never 
 been, and never will be a better online game, this is one of only 3 games i consider to be a perfect 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armand_Demizian
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 7:58 am PT
Review:  After spending a lot of time waiting (and a little too many dollars) , DoD: Source was finally available. 
 The first impression was amazingly laggy, the weaponry was far too scarce and the amount of maps 
 was a joke. Now, a few updates later, it has become better. The lag is drastically reduced and 
 battles have a more intense feeling. The latest map, dod_argentan, is in my oppinion the best map 
 yet. Yet, a lot more maps are needed in addition to keep players interested for as long as the 
 old DoD managed. Weapons like the M1 Carbine, the M3 Greasegun, the MG34 and the K43 are now missing 
 in the game wich takes some of the excitement out of the game. The M1 Carbine is acctually still 
 there, but is limited to the allied bazooka as backup weapon. 
  
  The difficulty is acctually a matter of wich server the player chooses, but a dedicated WW2-gamefan 
 will quickly learn to avoid servers with too many youngsters around. Personally I used a couple 
 of hours to get the right feeling with the game and finding out wich weapons suited me the best. 
 It's worth the effort to try out all the weapons in order to frag as much as possible.
  
  I do sincerely hope, that further updates will contain more weapons, maps and maybe even russians 
 or brits. This might level the mod up to where it's predacessor used to be. For now, I must say 
 that I am extremely dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanconnery31
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played DOD : Source, I was literally stunned in my chair for hours, while sweat 
 was dropping off my skin and a rush of blood was swimming in my head. I immediately knew this game 
 had it all. Amazing graphics, brilliant design, and outstanding audio, DOD : Source is online action 
 at it's best. Though with a few maps at purchase, this is definitely worth your 20 bucks, since 
 there will be patches and downloads in the future which leads to huge a big value.
  From looking at the screenshots, you know this game looks very pretty. 
  In fact, one of the 
 best looking shooters on the market, period. Not just because of the great shading or in depth 
 texture, but by the realistic design put into the game. Each gun is simply jaw-dropping, with huge 
 amounts of detail, like it was taken straight out of an American soldiers hand in World War II. 
 And boy, the reload animations are the best i've ever seen. With solid framerate, you really feel 
 as if you are loading each bullet/magazine in the gun. But, it's not just the visuals that are 
 good, the audio is top of the class. Bullets wizz by your head, shots echo throughout a thin tunnel, 
 and if a grenade explodes 10 feet away from you, you will be deaf for a matter of seconds. Because 
 of these features, DOD is one of the most realistic games that I have.. well ever experienced in 
 my life. In fact, this game is very similar to watching the film "Saving Private Ryan" , except 
 living it.
  What you may not know is that the gameplay truely shines above all things in DOD : Source. Since 
 this is a remastered version, the creators tried fixing all the glitches and mistakes from the 
 past. Well, Im happy to tell you, nearly every problem has been properly handled! Character's will 
 not skip around, since the game has a really good framerate. A huge improvement in this game is 
 that the maps have been deeply polished, adding more routes in each city or town. This makes it 
 much easier to kill campers or even snipers, creating a less frustrating and user friendly environment. 
 Also, this game doesn't need that high of a graphics computer to look and play good , kind of like 
 Counter-strike : Source.
  So what can I say? DOD : Source is nothing short of amazing. It get's 
  the feel of a first person 
 shooter, but has the realism of a war movie (saving private ryan) . If you love action games with 
 many tense and strategic moments, then this is the game you've been waiting for. DOD : Source
 
  is definitely one of the BEST games of the YEAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: escalade1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  This Day of Defeat source is the most authentic day of defeat i played so far its most addicting 
 online play keeps you playing hours on end, but the only downer is that the maps are pretty small, 
 i know there are modded maps out there but there not that authentic, but there still sweat for 
 screwing around in. Like i sayed it could have used bigger maps. But still its addicting, great 
 wepons, sound, and graphics. Also the back grounds during gamplay is most authentic, gun models, 
 and player models are high end and great realsm. Ok i'm off to go own some noobs, Goodbye ( ' ) 
 ( . ) 
  ______ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chorazy
Rating: 3.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I would rather drive a car into a tree (poor tree) than play this game. Seriously.
  
  Where to begin....
  
  I've played this game for a grand total of around 10 minutes, and I can 
 remember it vividly. So as I start out I get the completely lame option of choosing classes. Guns 
 apprently can be rated on things like accuracy. Not only is this ridiculous it's also unnecessary; 
 accuracy DOES NOT exist in this game. I've heard that the recoil is supposed to be realistically 
 simulated, but in the face of such terrible shooting that the crosshair is rendered useless, I'd 
 rather just have the bullets go where I aim. I'm pretty sure my accuracy would have improved, however 
 had I forgone sight and turned the monitor off. That's probably what they really did during the 
 war anyway. 
  
  Everything else is pretty subpar as well. You apparently capture bases like in Battlefield 2 (which 
 I also hate) . I really don't understand it, so try to be forgiving as to my ignorance. For a source 
 rendered game, the graphics didn't impress me, and the sound of gunfire constantly reminded me 
 of a car puffing exhaust. The whiny **** are to be found in every game, so I can't hold it against 
 DoD that most of the players are complete dumbasses. The game is nowhere near worth the $20 you 
 might have to pay considering your HL 2 purchase; it was originally a freaking mod. Basically just 
 go out there and buy a REAL WWII FPS like Call of Duty or even Medal of Honor. Actually I'd have 
 to say I enjoyed the original Doom much better than this crappy CS clone where realism is simulated 
 by having to aim at the ground to hit your opponent.
  
  Was I critical enough? I can be much worse. Yes this is me whining at how much I suck at this game, 
 if you were wondering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  This game is defining for WWII multiplayer. I love it. Simply love it. Graphics equal that of CSS. 
 The sound is extremely ambient. IF you are not quite right next to the action, you hear the sound 
 of grenades exploded, and the rumble of distant MG42 fire. 
  Only a few maps, but eh, thats bound to change, as it already has I'm sure. At first I didn't like 
 it, mostly cause I sucked, but there really is a rythem to the game, and in any given match, the 
 game can go either way. They could be sniper wars, or both sides charging headlong into battle 
 dodging the automatic machine gun fire and grenades. The gameplay is truly cinematic.
  Some of my favorite moments come when the gameplay flows as a whole. When you and two fellow players 
 are pinned in a position by .30 caliber machine gun, and a sniper, then a rocket trooper peeking 
 around the corner and destroying the sniper while grenades take out the machine gunner, while many 
 sub machine gun and support infantry are still charging at you, makes for one insane experience.
 
  If you have Half Life 2 and CSS this is a MUST MUST MUST have if you enjoy WWII shooters at all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telos182
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  This seems to be great remake of the original dod (a mod for Half-Life) , however I never had much 
 time to play the original so I mainly base that on what Ive heard from other players. Some people 
 say they (Valve) has Counter Striked it, at least the physics anywaythey might be right. Although, 
 I dont really think anyone can complain about Counter Strike so I dont know how thats a bad 
 thing.
  
  Play is fast and team based the classes also play an important part of the game play as well. If 
 a team has too many of a particular class they (generally) will be very vulnerable to another class 
 on the opposing team. I have found this to be an effective way to keep the teams classes mixed-up, 
 an example of this is a whole team of a more popular class like sniper. Snipers are vulnerable 
 in close combat and as such the assault class will cut them to shreds. This keeps everyone more 
 willing to work together and pick I class that will be the best for the team.
  
  Basically Im saying this is a well balanced team game for the people willing to work together, 
 there is nothing more frustrating then to see an online server ruined by a team that refuses to 
 work together. I think Valve has done a wonderful job making sure this wont happen often though. 
 
  
  The only thing that bothers me about this game seems to be the limited number of maps it has. But, 
 good, new ones are becoming more and more common. Valve is also coming out with new maps, just 
 like they have done with CS: Source, and with the soon to be released DoD SDK we should see many 
 new, well supported maps coming very soon. 
  
  So it would seem this game is getting better as time goes onmaybe gamespot should up date its 
 review (just a thought) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gam3Guy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  Another good multiplayer game out by Valve. This is a fun multiplayer game to play but doesnt feel 
 very realistic ( not that I'm complaining) . My favorite part of this game as opposed to Valve's 
 other very popular FPS game: Counter Strike: Source, is the fact that every time you get killed 
 each round you can respawn every time. In Counter Stike, it gets very boring when you die and both 
 sides (T and CT's) are camping. Anyway, if you enjoy WWII games, the multiplayer aspect of it ( 
 there is no Single Player part to this game) , and also the simple fun this game provides, then 
 this game is right for you.
  
  Gameplay: Fun to play but sometimes gets a little boring. 8/10
  
  Graphics: Source engine is 
 still looking great. 9/10
  
  Sound: Amazing sound! 10/10
  
  Value: Worth the $20. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: circleoffear
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 6:30 am PT
Review:  This game is going to be the best online WWII game ever (excluding Call of Duty 2) . A larde majority 
 sais its great, well most of the majority. 
  
  At first i hated WWII games then i tired a few like Call of Duty 2 and Day of Defeat Source. I 
 never knew how fun DODS can be until i played it. Its so realistic. The recoil is fascinating. 
 When i play it Its like im in the game. 
  BUT, Its a challenge for those who never played WWI or WWII games.
  
  The gameplay
  Well 
 first the gameplay is extremely fun, but its hard, u can't blame Vava, blame the players (just jokin) 
 
  
  The graphics are beautiful, one thing the graphics needed a little more detail on the guns, i mean 
 there like polished wat is that. Don't make the graphics become like Doom 3 graphics. 
  
  The sound 
  The sound is awesome i can't beleive it when i heard the tah tah tah tah (from far) 
 it ounded so nice. Cleaver. The guns sound so well when u shoot.
  
  Value
  The value is just plain great.
  
  Tilt
  Tilt is ok could of added a little more work to it, 
 but it's fine.
  
  Congratulations Valve, you've created a big hit.
  
  Sincerely,
  circleoffear
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxkrauth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this game, without a doubt, is an immersive, remarkable, and rewarding game that almost 
 any fan of the genre will enjoy. 
  
  Recently, i picked this game up from a computer store and plopped it into the computer. Little 
 did i know that i was about to have the time of my life. The game, using the Half-Life engine, 
 looks remarkable. The enviroments, while, as of now, limited in numbers, are huge, remarkable, 
 and, quite frankly, pretty. The guns and their type of firing just adds to the graphics. The sound 
 is average, not remarkable, but still pretty good. The sharp, loud roar of the Thompson Submachine 
 gun and the low, monotone like sound of the German MG-42 sound very realistic. However, your computer 
 controlled teammates have a limited, and bland, amount of speach for you to hear. The gameplay 
 is very immersive, fun, and rewarding. You can use an abundance of weapons, from the German Panzershrek 
 to the American M1A1 Garand. However, the gameplay is, in its own way, very similar to the Battlefield 
 series. For the most part, your main objectives are to capture "Command Posts", while using a specific 
 type of soldier, such as a regualr infanty man to an anti-tank specialist. However, there are nothing 
 you can drive, ride, or fly, a major part of the gameplay in the Battlefield games. The enviroments 
 are huge and have an abundance of sniper hiding spots to cover behind damaged cars and walls. The 
 multiplayer gameplay is what really shines out in this game, with huge matches that become very 
 fast paced and fun. Overall, any WW2 fan, anyone looking into playing the genre, or anyone who 
 is becoming fed up with the lack of good WW2 games should try this game. Due to the fact that it 
 has a 20 dollar price point, this game is a cheap way to get the most out of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAPITANMORGAN
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:59 am PT
Review:  Now and days with the REAL WAR in the REAL WORLD.. i guess we as gamers never get enough of these 
 types of games. After all , theres nothing better then shooting ENEMYS an maken sure the REST of 
 the WORLD can sleep at peace. Now to me this game is nice... did you hear me gamers.. nice.. looks 
 like MEDAL OF HONOR redux. Except this time i noticed that the game while shootn an you hit a wall 
 the BULLET MARKINGS actually stay an not dissapear after 20 seconds or so. Sometimes this is useful 
 when your looking threw every door an floor of an abandon building. 
  
  Now i own lots of WAR GAMES. This will be another to my collection. Keep em coming an ill keep 
 a buying. I dont think i could never get enough of being in the BATTLEFIELD. tanx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G4mbl3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Day Of Defeat : Source is the based on the highly acclaimed Day of Defeat for the original Half 
 Life. It started off as a mod and exploded into the mainstream, excatly like Counter Strike. But 
 enough of that do-dad, let's get straight to the point. 
  
  Gameplay - Incredible. Everything is highly accurate to tha actual war right down to the names 
 of the teams which is the Wermacht and US Army (all of the scenerios take place in the European 
 campaign, hence the names) . This game is based just on infantry combat so don't expect and vehicles 
 here. The guns are all highly accurate and act that way. In some games, recoil is non-existant. 
 Quite the opposite here. Bottom Line - Gameplay is at it's best but not quite perfect due to some 
 bugs that will likely get fixed in future updates.
  
  Graphics - Two words : Source. Engine. That's all I need to say. Things are interactable to a certain 
 degree to which it almosts being required (Avalanche comes to mind, the paino near the red room) . 
 The graphics are superb. The physics are superb.
  
  Sound - The actual sound is great. The souds are very believable and you can hear firefights from 
 a while away to the ring in your ear as you fire your MG42. My only gripe is ambiance. Sure, the 
 faint gun noises in the back is cool but we need some wind noises and such when storm a beach. 
 
  
  Value - This game is highly addictive. Be warned. And, since we have Steam and Valve, expect tons 
 of maps and updates. The only reason value is not a 10 is because this is a multiplayer only game. 
 Atleast offline bots would be nice. 
  
  Tilt - Overall, my favorite online WWII game ever. Check it out, play it, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakeEx3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 13, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat Source is a World War II shooter, which is basically the original Day of Defeat but 
 modified for the Source engine. Basically there are two teams at the moment, the US Army and the 
 Wermacht (German military force) and it is a game of territory. The team who controls all of the 
 territories first wins, and to control the territories, a soldier, or two, needs to stay at a flag 
 for a certain amount of time. Killing people prevents this, of course. The spawn points are all 
 the way back, and you must go back to each flag, you can't spawn at the flags unless the map creator 
 creates spawn points there. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Gameplay is pretty simple enough. You're a soldier and you are killing other soldiers and taking 
 flags. There are classes, rifleman, assault, support, sniper, machinegunner, and rocket. Rifleman 
 carry rifles, a grenade launcher attachment, and a shovel or CQC knife. Assault men can punch, 
 have a close range full auto weapon, a smoke grenade, and a regular grenade. Support players get 
 a full auto weapon for medium range, a knife/shovel, and two grenades. Snipers get a knife, a pistol, 
 and a sniper rifle. Machinegunners get the same but replace the rifle with a machinegun (Which 
 you have to set up to fire first effectively) . Rocket players get a rocket launcher that must be 
 set up to fire, either a carbine or Mauser (automatic pistol) , and a knife/shovel. The game is 
 heavily team based, and usually your team can only win if you work together. Classes are pretty 
 balanced except that machinegunners can be a little cheap, though are usually countered. You can 
 signal to your team, although the "I need ammo" phrase is pretty useless. You can lie down and 
 sprint for periods of time. The game is not fully optimized yet, and there are lag and "getting 
 stuck" issues. As of now it is only multiplayer with broadband.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Graphics are great. There are HDR options so the lighting can look awesome. The models are detailed, 
 the maps are detailed, and things animate pretty well. No real problems here, if you've played 
 Half Life 2 you know what to expect
  
  SOUND
  Sound is pretty good. There is nothing wrong with it at all. The theme song kicks ass but it should 
 play more often. Then again, the sound isn't really that special either.
  
  VALUE
  As of now there are only a few official maps. More will be added, via Steam or from users. The 
 game lasts a long time but can be frustrating. Still, the game can be addicting.
  
  TILT
  Well, the game is very refreshing to me from other shooting games. It's very fast paced, has minimal 
 loading times, and is overall pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcgmr27
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 10:41 pm PT
Review:  The source upgrade is solid: they added the hl2 engine, and didn't damage the gameplay of the original. 
 And, like the original, it's one of the best sniper vs. sniper games - ever. 
  
  Unfortunately, the environments are not as interactive as they should be. The source engine lets 
 you have all kinds of fun with physics, and it would be cool to have destuctable boxes, walls, 
 and other 'redecoration' options. 
  
  Also, given that it costs 20 bucks, Valve should have added new maps, weapons, and maybe even new 
 gameplay modes. Simply adding some kind of high explosive pack, or fixed machine gun emplacements 
 would make the game infinitely more fun. As is, it's an overpriced conversion of the original day 
 of defeat - I guess Valve got lazy and decided to reel in the easy cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nedarbi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2005 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat source really makes you feel like your their rather then simply playing a game. if 
 this game doesn't feel intense to you then you must be blind. sound and visuals blew me away and 
 i was shocked at the attention to detail on every tiny thing. you'll run into a house and see pictures 
 and furniture lots of things that would surprise you. definetly a game to keep and play over and 
 over again.
  
  In the gameplay your left with tons of choices on how to play. if you want to rush then you can 
 get an assault rifle. throw grenades punching and mass shooting equals one dangerous person. if 
 you want to prevent your enemies forward movement then you can be a sniper, picking people off 
 one at a time or a machine gunner, taken them down by the masses. when your sitting there shooting 
 the sound makes you feel like your in the game. 5.1 or 7.1 dolby is the way to go with this one.
 
  
  all in all 
  buy it
  play it
  love it
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reda123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 4:13 am PT
Review:  ... if you want to play very good game just buy this game OR download it frome emule and you will 
 enjoy :) mmmm this game r very very good and it's like medal of houner but this r the best game 
 all over the world :D 
  mmmm donload it and you will see what i'm talking about .. :) 
  ohhh i must right 100 words :S it's to hard to write 100 words :D
  mmmm ok guys all try this 
 game and all will enjoy and we can play it online :) soo i be the best One :D and no body can kill 
 me :) 
  ok guys, good luck and bYe bYe :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vectorz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  like a lot of Half-life mod junkies, I spent countless hours playing Day of Defeat, so when I saw 
 source for the first time I knew it was only a matter of time it would release on the new engine. 
 
  
  Graphics - the fact that its running on steam says its going to be great, along with the physics. 
 And it is, no complaints here. (plus a new map that supports new lighting technology, the kind 
 used in lost coast) .
  
  Sound - I was disapointed in the sound, I figured it would be revamped just a little bit, yet its 
 still enough to emerse you into the era.
  
  Gameplay - Its a great fast paced gameplay, dont stay in one spot too long. The game needs larger 
 maps, but for now its a good fast paste game like it used to be on the small maps. (still awaiting 
 larger maps so one can hide as a sniper etc..) I have hope for the continue of development but 
 if they cant bring back larger maps I dont see this game growing. 
  
  Tilt - Just the same, I've found that the loss of iron sites and a few other nifty features the 
 game left behind for realisme has made the game less interesting. 
  
  Value - Give it a try, but dont count on the old DOD in a new look. Its more like a shell of its 
 former self, lets hope it only needs time to become loved again. But with games like Battlefront 
 2 and Battlefield 2 this game has no contest. 
  
  This is still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 9:27 am PT
Review:  Day of Defeat: Source - - Review
  
  By this time its simply an impossibility for any first-person-shooter fan to not have played at 
 least one World War II themed shooter. So what makes Day of Defeat Source worth your time and money? 
 For starters, it combines close-quarters and tight shooting mechanics with a sense of teamwork 
 needed to achieve victory. Although Day of Defeat Source is simply a remake of a mod many have 
 already played, and still play to this dayyou should nevertheless give it a try if youre looking 
 for some fast-paced, intense, teamwork oriented multiplayer. 
  
  The essence of Day of Defeat is simply stated, but not so plainly learned. As you start a match 
 youll see in the top-left part of the screen 5 squares, these portray the 5 capture points that 
 your team must seize in order to realize victory. Your team starts out with the closest two flags 
 to your spawn point under control, and the same goes for the opposing team; the middle flag is 
 the point in which you essentially must hold if your team is to make a push for the last two enemy 
 bases. Unlike the Battlefield games, you cannot spawn at a captured base; your team always spawns 
 at the same point. This gives the battle a more realistic feel right off the batas you spawn in 
 youre basically assuming the role of reinforcements. This makes you traverse the same area each 
 time you die to get back to the action, but that truly is the only down time in the game. 
  
  The action simply never ceases, and the majority of each team will always be gathered at the 
 middle of the map trying to defend or capture that vital central flag. Although that middle point 
 usually provides some sort of cover for a player making a generally futile attempt at capturing, 
 its not likely that you survive in that area for more than a minute or so. You have snipers watching 
 that area at all times, you have MG-42s raining down bullets from adjacent windows, and you have 
 grenades flying every-which-way. And just to make it even more difficult, youll need at least 
 one other teammate with you in order to seize that flag for your team. In reality, the teamwork 
 is what really makes Day of Defeat stand out from other games in the genre. Your team will really 
 have to work together in order to win, and if two teams are pretty equally matched one battle can 
 take upwards of 45 minutes to an hour to finish. This gives each battle an epic feel, something 
 that a multiplayer game rarely does. 
  
  Along the same lines of the Battlefield series is in how you choose your character class, each 
 of which has its own advantages and disadvantages depending on the situation. The Assault character 
 carries a bolt-action rifle, a melee-oriented weapon (a knife or a shovel) and a couple grenades 
 that can be launched long-distances off the barrel. In close range the slow-firing rifle isnt 
 always going to be your best friend, thats where the Thompson or MP40 of another class will come 
 in useful, but you have to be careful of the kick-back on such weapons, rendering even them difficult 
 to use in close-quarters -- under certain circumstances. If youre looking for the higher damage 
 caused by a rifle, and yet the luxury of having the ability to go full-auto, the BAR or MP44 are 
 dangerous in the hands of a skilled player. Naturally, a sniper class is available, and although 
 this is good for suppressing an area with enemies, it is awfully tricky to use in any other way. 
 Possibly the kit most needed for defending or attacking a fortified enemy position is the heavy 
 machine gunner. Try firing the massive weapon while standing, or even crouching, and the kickback 
 will have you looking to the stars after one shot. But if you can find a good position behind a 
 sandbag, in a window, or lying downyoull have a deadly force at your control. Last, theres the 
 class that simply seems out of place in Day of Defeats closely-knit, vehicle-less battlesthe 
 Bazooka. Armed with a weak mid-range rifle, and one bazooka, a player can shoot into buildings 
 with known enemies and usually do some damage. But without tanks or half-tracks to blow up this 
 kit simply seems strange.
  
  From a technical perspective Day of Defeat has a lot going for it. First and foremost noticeable 
 in the graphical presentation, if you have the specs to turn it on, is the addition of Valves 
 latest and greatestHDR lighting. High-Definition-Range Lighting essentially mimics and recreates 
 the sense of brightness that you have in real life. Transitioning from a dark area out into the 
 bright sun can be blinding, and it will take a couple seconds for your eye-sight to adjust to the 
 difference; this is true in Day of Defeat, and although it is exaggerated to a certain degree, 
 it nonetheless looks great. The same realistic approach from moving into a dark area immediately 
 following a bright area will leave you unaware of your surroundings for a moment. One could reasonably 
 assume that this would have some sort of affect of the gameplay, and it doesbut in an extremely 
 minor way. Going into a dark area for the first couple seconds you may not notice the enemy soldier 
 waiting in the corner; or visa-versa, going out into the sun-drenched courtyard you could initially 
 fail to notice the sniper deployed near the far wall. 
  
  There is a sufficient number of strengths in Day of Defeats visual presentation; good animation, 
 decent yet uninspiring character models, thoroughly detailed depictions of the many weapons, and 
 excellent particle-effects. Day of Defeat is a purely multiplayer based game, and is sold at a 
 reduced price of $20; so you get a lot of bang-for-your-buck all things considered. There are some 
 especially neat effects youll see, although its unlikely youve never seen them before. Stay 
 too close to a grenade as it explodes and your vision and hearing will, for a short time, become 
 impaired, and youll be left mostly defenseless. The smoke grenades produce satisfying results 
 equivalent to Counter Strike: Source; as do the frag grenades and bazooka explosions. But above 
 all other aspects, the design of each level is what ties everything togetherbrilliantly. The essence 
 and mood of fighting in the many town-become-battlefields of World War II is effectively conveyed. 
 The detail put into each and every ounce of level design shines through as possibly Day of Defeats 
 greatest characteristic. To solidify the whole cohesive experience youll hear the hectic and dreadful 
 sounds of war. Each weapon sounds fairly accurate, but also a little on the weak side. As in a 
 game like Call of Duty or Counter Strike you have several voice-over lines that you can yell out 
 to your teammates. These voices are nothing to right home about, but they get the job done. Over 
 all, the sound is good, but could have been better. 
  
  Day of Defeat: Source is a great multiplayer game on its own merits, sports some impressive visuals 
 coupled with intense action that forces your team to work together for victory. Youll find that 
 contrasting from a game like Counter Strike players seem worried about their team winning more 
 so than about their own score. The inclusion of Valves new HDR Lighting united with some excellent 
 level-design is enough to justify a purchase if youre searching for a bargain-priced quality multiplayer 
 title. Day of Defeat isnt about the epic struggles of World War II, nor is it about honoring the 
 men and women that lost their lives in the name of freedom. No story is truly being told here. 
 And to a certain extent, thats what may capture the interest of many WWII-worn-out gamers. Youre 
 paying the price for some quality multiplayer action, nothing more, and nothing less. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geogo3r
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  In the DoD: S there are many notiable differences from its yesteryear brother. First of all Improved, 
 Crisp, Lifelike Source graphics that are astounding with the HDR. The amazing weapon, explosion, 
 and artillery fire are amazing sounds that are great but even greater if you have the privilage 
 of owning a surround sound system with this game. The game is personally above my expectations. 
 Some of the letdowns are the sometimes un-real gravity cycles like whn hit with a rocket, your 
 body will go ragdoll and fly hundreds of feet into the air (although i like it when playing dod_giza) 
 Once again, Certinally a must buy for any FPS gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsoth
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 6, 2005 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: If you have played Day of Defeat before, you're not missing any thing new and interesting.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing; Valve does a wonderful transition with the old textures to 
 the new textures.
  
  Sound: It sounds great and makes the game very immersive.
  
  Value: If you own Day of Defeat and want something new, don't look here for any thing different 
 than what you have already played.
  
  Tilt: Honestly, it's a rehash just with better graphics and sounds; nothing much else. Valve could 
 have incorperated vechiles and many other elements that are being added to the multiplayer arena 
 like the Unreal series and Battlefield series. There just seems to be a lack of innovation with 
 Valve's multiplayer; they don't want to change what already works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I fell in love with first player shooters with Call of Duty, then Half Life2, but Day of Defeat: 
 Source really is the cats bum.
  
  I have played this game since it's 2nd day of release, and have loved every minute of it. The 20.00 
 US is definatly worth it, with stunning visuals, great sound FX, and rapid gameplay.
  
  Team play is definatly a must here, otherwise one will be slaughtered quite quickly.
  
  On 
 the downside, the game comes with no instruction manual (quite frustrating to us keyboard pounding 
 newbies) , does seem to lag right at your first couple of spawns into a battle (apparently this 
 is due to all the sounds still loading up and playing for the first time) . I seem to have a problem 
 with not being able to type to my team or other players after 3 or 4 games. I know that this is 
 not a problem with my system, as others have complained about this issue as well.
  
  All in all, DoD: Source is great fun, especially if you have a bit of aggression that you need 
 to take out on the nearest German or American.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 6:20 pm PT
Review:  At first glance this game both feels and looks very similar to the 14 WW2 games that came out last 
 week and the 177 others in stores at the moment. One thing that separates these WW2 games from 
 each other is the online play and graphics.
  
  Day of Defeat has no single player, but it doesnt need one either. Day of Defeat: Source is entirely 
 focused on multiplayer action, and thats just awesome because it does it so well.
  
  The connection into games is flawless (loading times and server connections times are a bit long) 
 but for the most part it takes no effort beyond finding a server with a map you like and a favorable 
 ping and your preferred player count. After you enter a server you select a class of solider and 
 this determines your weapon, then simply spawn into the game and start shooting things!
  
  Firing a gun in the game feels substantially different from any WW2 game I have played before; 
 the gun recoil is extremely accurate. In other WW2 games the recoil is generally over the top for 
 rifles and non-existent for automatic weapons, making the game un-balanced and far from realistic 
 (if recoil is even included) .
  
  The sound is a bit lacking though, while all the guns and impacts sound amazing, the lack of ambient 
 sounds (except for the very few gun noises in the background) really sticks out. I would enjoy 
 hearing the water and gulls when I am on the beach storming into a battlefield.
  
  What really surprises me is this, I got this game via Steam and it was around 626MB in file size. 
 I expected the graphics to be decent but not greatwrong, the graphics are really sharp (maybe 
 a bit below Call of Duty 2) and the frame rate was really solid.
  
  Day of Defeat: Source looks and feels better than every WW2 shooter I have played in the past, 
 and the addition of HDR integrated with the Source Engine means that it has the distinct advantage 
 in the long run for better graphics.
  
  Another thing about this game that totally immerses you into the experience of actually being in 
 a firefight is the impacts for bullets. When you fire a bullet in real life it tears apart whatever 
 it hits, the same rule applies to this game. I cannot begin to describe how cool it is to be hiding 
 behind cover and see pieces of wood and dirt fly up around you!
  
  I cant begin to describe the level of fun I have had with this game so far, and I would encourage 
 you to play it so you can experience it as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan72
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 5, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is exactly what I wanted. I know the map situation or lack thereof, and 'balance' issues 
 are present. But as you vets know, it will all be 'ironed out' in time with Us, the 'community' 
 hopefully getting what we want with constuctive feedback to Valve... and I personally think what 
 WE want is solid balanced weaponry and objective style teamplay with just that right mix of realism 
 and fun incorporated. For let's face it, some German weapons were just 'better' but IMO it was 
 the 'heavy' stuff like tanks and the 88mm. But since DoD purposely focuses on the INFANTRY's STREET 
 TO STREET and HOUSE TO HOUSE battles... the whole Sherman tank vs. a King Tiger isn't an issue. 
 So it's the same game, with a hell of a facelift and a boob job :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyber_sonix
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  In short, yes. In long, it brings to the table visuals that are really needed to make you feel 
 like you are truly in a war. Thanks to the source engine, realistic pyhsics make you think before 
 you shoot or whip a nade out. The games use of HDR is somthing that you have to see to truly love. 
 I didnt think much of it untill I got my new graphics care and I saw how incredible it really is. 
 Enough about the visuals already. The real joy of day of defeat: source; the gameplay. I personally 
 enjoy the wwII setting and think they've really improved the games feel and play from the original. 
 The sound is so ambient, the pitter patter of mg fire in the distance will either make you worried 
 about turning the corner or will make you smile because it sounds so realistic. The graphics take 
 a lot of the glory in this game but I think the sound is somthing that should be mentioned more 
 about this game. The only real problem that I had with the game is the class system. I would have 
 perfered to be able to choose rifle grenades or hand. As well as the smoke grenades on the sergents 
 class. And the only other class problem I have is the exclusion of the m-1 carbine rifle class, 
 but these are all little nitpicks that I've since gotten used to. 
  
  If you are looking for a great game, have half-life 2, and 20$ to spend, theres no reason you should 
 not pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buyakia
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:45 am PT
Review:  i liked this game the first time i played it then i played it a second time and i noticed the recoil 
 on the guns... how weak could someone be not to be able to hold a gun strait. i think if they took 
 the recoil of this game would be a good game seeing how the graphics are great and sounds are alright.
 
  
  this is a fun game just to fool around with but i dont suggest buying it. it would be a fun lan 
 party game though. this game i was looking forwards to but i wasnt as good as i thought it would 
 be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopskadoop
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-
  
  Those who have played the previous Dod will find Dod: source to be similiar in many respects, though 
 different in others. It seems, for example, that the accuracy of all weapons has been lowered, 
 making it more difficult to make a kill. This can be seen as a good or bad thing, but most of the 
 time it seems to be frustrating since the firing a weapon has become more of a shoot and hope it 
 hits ordeal, especially with the severely innacurate pistols. 
  
  Dod: source does, however, offer news gameplay options, such as grenade launchers for the rifle 
 class, melee attack for the submachine gun class, as well as an option to prime hand-held grenades. 
 Some of these things seem to me a bit imbalanced; I miss the bayonet and hand-held grenades on 
 the rifle class. There are certain other changes, such as a semi-auto option for the BAR and Stg-44 
 (the bar can no longer deploy bipods) , and an iron sight zoom for the rifle class, which seems 
 to make the weapon 5 times more accurate. Another notable mention is that it is now easier to deploy 
 your machine gun where the terrain permits it.
  
  All of this is fine (I don't particularly care too much about these changes) , but the game seems 
 to be missing something underneath the surface. I must admit that I am not too sure myself what 
 it is exactly, but it has a negative effect on the flow of the game. I suspect it may have something 
 to do with a few bugs that still haven't been ironed out, such as getting stuck on various things 
 and other players, but the true problem may reside within the game mechanics themselves. The previous 
 Dod seemed to less of a random chance ordeal. The new dod seems to rely more on random sprays to 
 get the job done, though I could simply be imagining things.
  
  - A solid game overall.
  
  Graphics-
  
  The source engine needs no introduction; we all know its amazing level of 
 detail and graphical effects, so I don't think it's necessary to say "yea, the graphics are great." 
 However, there is one notable thing to mention, the introduction of HDR lighting effects. For those 
 that have the necessary hardware, it adds a nice touch to things, though certainly nothing to go 
 crazy over.
  
  Sound-
  
  Better than the originial by far. Sounds are much more intimidating. The mg-42 sounds especially 
 nice. Great intro music, too.
  
  Value-
  
  For $20.00, it's a decent buy. I got mine from the silver edition that I purchased with steam, 
 but it's worth it if you have an extra 20 somewhere. However, it should be noted that there are 
 very few levels to start off with and that the game is missing the British, which the original 
 included. I'm sure more content will be released through steam over time, though.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopsmith111
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 18, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was great. The new sound is much better than before, but I did think that the 
 game lacked the shooting style of the first one. I think that Day of Defeat source was a great 
 game, but I think that the first one was much better. I believe that Day of Defeat source focused 
 more on graphics and looked away a little on gameplay. In the end it isnt a bad game, but I think 
 if your a fan of day of defeat you should look into it. If not i think you might want to stay away. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic_Mutant
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat Source or DoD: Source is a WWII themed multiplayer only shooter. This game has originally 
 been a multiplayer mod of Half-Life 1 engine that featured close-combat battles pitted between 
 the allies (British & Americans) and the axis (German only) . DoD: Source is a revamped version 
 of this mod, and moreover it is a full-blown retail product available both as a Half-Life 2 multiplayer 
 game retail package (included with Couterstrike: Source) , or on Steam, Valves online content catalogue 
 and update service.
  
  DoD: Source accentuates the claustrophobic nature of urban warfare, where almost every corner of 
 a building and every door presented an imminent danger. It is a brand of gameplay that departs 
 somewhat from other WWII FPS games that exhibit wide open terrains and vehicles. Nevertheless, 
 owing to the closed nature of maps, the gameplay found in DoD: Source remains visceral, and the 
 pace of the game can get very hectic. A player can easily lose his bearings while exploring any 
 of the four maps included, and first time experiences can be jarring especially if you are not 
 acquainted with DoD. Soon enough, you would be able to navigate the maps without any kind of problem, 
 and be able to use various types of cover and secluded locations to play the game at your own preferred 
 pace. The design of the maps, while allowing different playing styles, also do not hesitate to 
 shift your position as a camping stalker to a sitting duck with a bulls-eye painted on your helmet, 
 since they are chock full of objects and materials that not only realistically obstruct and confuse 
 your viewing area, but are interactive, showing the trail of destruction as they it rolls by literally 
 tattooing the map. So when you chance upon a room with uproot furniture, unhinged picture frames, 
 broken windows, and blood stains everywhere, one would do well to heed these visual cues and plot 
 your next movement more warily. Even though the environment is not fully destructive, they are 
 more than enough to get your blood pumping.
  
  DoD: Source features a class based system where each class is differentiated by the weapons allotted. 
 These classes are mirrored closely between the Allies and the Wermarcht, but there are subtleties 
 between the respective classes, while end up being well balanced. For example, the German issued 
 Stg44 has attributes that are more evenly spaced whereas its American equivalent, Bar, favors 
 accuracy and stopping power while foregoing a bit of control. Comparatively speaking, the Stg44 
 would provide players a bit more mobility and range as the recoil would be less, whereas Bar would 
 limit movement but enhance its close range effectiveness. Each class serves a particular role that 
 is either defensively or offensively oriented, or both, whenever needs may arise. For example, 
 assault and support classes are more or less the mainstay in any offensive effort. The varied role 
 the classes play makes each of them unique for their intended purpose. The strengths of each class 
 become integral to forming a balanced squad, and not one seems to be an afterthought thrown in 
 just to balance out the gameplay. You certainly will have a favorite class over time, but that 
 would not make other classes any less enjoyable to play. At first I shunned the bazooka class, 
 but some of the most fun to be had was with this class, with misfired rockets bouncing like a grenade 
 and an indispensable carbine sidearm to assist you to hold your own when things get hairy. It would 
 also have been nice to have a separate function for melee combat for all classes involved though, 
 especially for the rifleman class.
  
  DoD: Source provides realistic action that does not stray from the line between realism and fun. 
 For example, you can shoot your automatic weapons from the hip, but from aside the very first shot, 
 the recoil will render any further fire useless. This is not any more apparent than with a machine 
 gun, where by the time you can squeeze off a second shot, the muzzle will point to the sky from 
 the recoil. You also can crouch, lay prone, or even crawl. There is a sprint function (great for 
 evading sniper fire in open spaces) where you can cover great distances for a short time, with 
 a fatigue meter prominently displayed on the bottom that tells you how tired you are. Fatigue may 
 be related with some other aspects of your movement, given the meter and all, but I could not really 
 figure out what it was. A glaring omission here is the ability to peek out from cover. Not that 
 it hampers any flow to the game, and in fact this may slow down the game considerably. Perhaps 
 it is a limitation of the Source engine, but I do not think so, but the lack of it is quite left 
 wanting in certain situations. Because, in DoD: Source, one or two clean shots are all it takes 
 to bring you down. Automatic weapons may require more sustained fire, but they are all extremely 
 deadly. Were it not for the fact that you can re-spawn as reinforcements within ten seconds on 
 the timer, the experience would have been rather frustrating. The ability to transition between 
 cover and being exposed, in addition to the ability to fire weapons indiscriminately around cover 
 (much like Gears of War but with a more limited perspective) would have added much to help reinforce 
 the realism of the game. 
  
  Another point to make is that of collision detection. When you collide with other players, it is 
 equivalent of hitting an object with infinite mass. Your inertia and direction from movement do 
 not register upon other players. For example, when you come across a live grenade and want to backtrack 
 and your passage of escape is blocked by a teammate whose vision is obscured by you, well then, 
 it is time to use that use the 'use' button to try to pick it up and throw it back in vain hope. 
 Yes, you can use this function, but this occurrence is very rare. There are also nagging issues 
 such as players getting stuck, almost dragging each other. It would also be nice, like in Call 
 of Duty, if there is a handy tooltip to notify players of the option to change their primary 
 weapons or sidearm with those on the ground. 
  
  The graphics of DoD: Source is very nice. The game is awash in high resolution textures, and all 
 the visual trappings of the Source engine are showcased in the game. With the addition of HDR (high 
 dynamic range lightning; a sort of bloom effect that seems to accentuate contrast, most noticeable 
 when one goes out of dark environment to well lit outside) , the game sports the newest graphics 
 technology at a minimal cost of performance (I experienced around 5 to 10 fps drop with HDR enabled) . 
 The physics modeling adds considerably to the graphics and realism of the action, and bodies fling 
 about in every direction (with detachable helmets!) and grenades obey simple rules of geometry 
 and gravity. The character models are all rendered in detail and even display damage location; 
 their animations, however, are a bit flippant, seemingly not making solid contact with the environment 
 around them, even suffering from clipping (especially around the sandboxes) . All the eye candy 
 does not detract from the actual gameplay as it is almost never distracting. The scalability of 
 the Source engine is one of the best in the industry, to say the least.
  
  The sound seems quite authentic, and the players call out each other using a wealth of voice commands 
 in respective native language. You can identify the weapons being used nearby just by the sound, 
 and that alone is a testament to the sound aspect augmenting that suspension of disbelief if nothing 
 else. It is everything you could ask for in a game geared for competition; you will be able to 
 ascertain the source of sound and track it to a general direction. There is little to no music, 
 aside from the opening of any session or when the victory was achieved. As with Counterstrike, 
 DoD: Source supports in-game voice communication and it seems to work quite well at least from 
 my experience having heard it in the game. 
  
  The number of maps only number at four, which is a bit disconcerting given that this is a full 
 fledged retail game (albeit sold at budget title price) . All maps feature the tried and true formula 
 of point capturing, in which players engage in holding down some area without enemy intervention 
 for some predetermined time until it becomes designated as having been owned by the side that 
 last captured it. The numbers of points captured confer points to the overall team score, but do 
 not serve as anything other than the progress of the match; it does not serve as any kind of spawn 
 point like in Battlefield 1942. The reinforcement pretext gives players who are out of the match 
 chance to return to the match in regular intervals, and the matches are usually very heavily contested 
 (as seen in most public matches) like an ebb and flow, sometimes punctuated by an eerie lull where 
 only campers await. The map layout emphasizes teamwork, especially telling when a capture point 
 (usually the ones that are at the midpoint between spawn sites, therefore the most risky) requires 
 two personnel to hold down the area for a certain time before the capture occurs. With varied amount 
 of classes, in addition to respective assigned specialized roles and cooperative teamwork they 
 foster, which are required to have any breakthrough, make DoD: Source one of the hardest games 
 to attain success when soloing. 
  
  With the Source engine being what it is, here is hoping that it will only be a short wait before 
 either fan modded maps or new official maps will be released. The omission of the British side 
 is not as sorely wanting as first expected, but adding a few more major players of the conflict 
 as playable would not certainly hurt, particularly the Russians. Also there have been some stability 
 issues experienced by players in the form of intermittent crashes and sound looping / stuttering 
 issues.
  
  DoD: Source is basically what Half-Life 2 was to Half-Life; it is an update that is evolution in 
 graphics, with the already sound gameplay remaining relatively intact. Although it does not feature 
 any of the designs introduced and further evolved in modern multiplayer FPS such as vehicular combat 
 and commander system, by holding its own close combat gameplay and honing it some more, it has 
 achieved something that no shooter fans should overlook without giving it a try. Although giving 
 it a try means that one would have to purchase the game first and not be able to go back as easily 
 on their decision, the game will provide perhaps many hours of enjoyable WWII action with more 
 content to follow.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall1991
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I'm reviewing day of defeat source and id have to say a couple things that came to mind while playing.
 
  
  Just so you know this is a good game but its not day of defeat, its trying to be call of duty too 
 much but is failing which is a shame because DoD 1.3 was so amazing. Now basically DoD: S is supposed 
 to be DoD in the source engine with revamped maps and weapon models. In DoD the game was all about 
 balance, having all the weapons rely on eachother and not one weapon dominate on either side. In 
 source its not so. Your place as axis or allies (which ever one you choose) and then you select 
 your weapon based on a class system. I love the whole class thing especiall with sniper or MG limits 
 but the point of classes is to make the guns spread out equally. In source it seems that everyone 
 is either assault or sniper. Rifles have been nerfed to insanity and the garand is unuseable in 
 its current state (the K98 acually isnt that bad) and since they added ironsights the rifles have 
 no melee attack. Mind you, your also equipped with a knife. Also to put down the rifles once again, 
 they dont even get a sidearm. some people say its good and realistic but there is a line between 
 realism and good gameplay. And for the iron sights.. completely useless no matter what you think. 
 it takes you about 10 seconds to bring them up and then they take up 80% of the screen so you cant 
 see what youre doing, and then another 10 seconds to bring them down. Like i said its not the old 
 DoD, before there would be a frontline and youd accomplish something when you pushed the enemy 
 back but now its too fast paced and you can just sprint behind the line and waste everyone with 
 a tommy..*sigh* There's more to rant about but it IS just released and only has 4 maps so onto 
 the positives. 
  
  well, source looks pretty, it has very high requirements since it has HDR but it looks really cool 
 and the physics are really killer. nothing like shooting some sniper in the face and watch him 
 flop off of the church. Also they added a shell shock type thing (kinda) similar to call of duty. 
 The sounds are completely mind blowingly awesome and the guns look really sleek and realistic, 
 same with the player models. I think valve turned off the learning curve ALOT so you wont be rewarded 
 for as much the more you play but it also gives it a bigger community and lets noobies have fun. 
 All in all, if youre looking for a good WW2 fast paced shooter that ISNT call of duty, look no 
 further but if youre a hardcore DoD fan that loved 1.3, stay FAR away until future releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_of_fire
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  First off, I shall start with a little background information, if you don't know anything about 
 this game or any steam games then read this if u don't know skip the next paragraph.
  A long time ago a game like Half-Life was released and this game had a great impact on people they 
 loved it. After a while a college student made a game called 'Counter-Strike' or officially known 
 as 'Half-Life: Counter-Strike' This game is one of this most played games on the internet right 
 now. Well if i'm not mistaken this game was released in 1999, and still it's been six years and 
 there are at least 50,000 active servers up and running from all around the world. After a while 
 this game had some other game like Day of Defeat come out which was a hit due to it's different 
 gameplay and so these and some other games were a hit. Last year, Valve and Steam released a game 
 called Half-life 2 and you can easily see that it a sequel to 'Half-life.' This game of course 
 had many improvements and serious gamers like me loved it, and there was also another relsease 
 with it, Counter-Strike: Source which had a great role to play. This game still didn't reach Counter-Strike's 
 level, although like Half-Life 2 this game also had a lot of good improvements, the original is 
 always the best so this is good but not as the most played game right now. 
  
  Well that was an overview of the stuff that brought this game here, now for the review. I made 
 is pretty to be 8.6, all the stuff you see is true. Well of course from Day of Defeat 1.6 to this 
 it's a huge jump but if you consider all the games coming out these days this game is pretty good, 
 the gameplay is pretty straight-forward and everything else that you can think of this game's gameplay 
 it's almost the same. All that I can say about the graphics is that this is one of the good ones. 
 Although games like Battlefield 2 have great graphics this did it for all the gamers not only reach 
 gamers, coz not everyone can afford a computer that Battlefield wants. The gameplay also depends 
 on the internet you have and the server you're playing on, this is because of course this game 
 does have only multiplayer you should consider getting a good internet connection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tartao
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 15, 2005 6:06 am PT
Review:  Hi to all,
  
  I see that almost all reviews are positive and my one as well!
  
  However I'm really not pleased by the choice Valve did about which aspect
  of the game to improve:
 
  
  Sound and Graphics... only !!
  
  Even if this new graphics is really amazing, I was playing DOD as it was,
  IMHO, the only FPS 
 that was really close to a real war aspect:
  
  One shot one kill.
  
  It was missing some more reality... but DOD Source was imminent and
  I toughed they'll do something 
 really new!!! 
  
  But ... ... ... 
  
  Can you believe that someone could be shot with a BAR (but also any other weapon) and still run 
 towards you, firing and possibly (often) killing you
  ONLY because his health was some points higher than yours ????
  
  If you are hit by one or 
 more BAR bullets... you at least fall, or your body is
  turned and so on...
  
  THIS WAS THE IMPROVEMENT I WAS REALLY WAITING FOR
  This is more realism for me.
  
  Another 
 lack is really in the weapons precision, or in the collision system:
  
  In one occasion I shot a full Thomson to a German behind a fence... 0 damage!
  
  However, good 
 game but it could be better!
  
  Hey Valve, are you there?
  
  Cheers, Andrea from Milano, Italy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawgz_Homies
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 12:28 am PT
Review:  Valve made a great decision in making Day Of Defeat go retail a few years back. Valve made an even 
 better decision making an improved version of that same classic with a few revisions and with an 
 amazing graphics engine this year. DoD source is definately on par with Call Of Duty and Medal 
 Of Honor in terms of multiplayer (since its only a multiplayer game) . In fact, in many ways it 
 exceeds the bar by providing fast, innoative and addictive gameplay much like Counter Strike but 
 with a HUGE emphasis on TEAMWORK. America's Army was for a while my all time favorite tactical 
 game, but after a while the community began to die on it. However that was not a problem for DoD 
 as the fans remained commited with the game no matter what fancy new WW2 game comes out wowing 
 everyone else with fancy graphics. This time however like counter strike (which has a WAY bigger 
 community so it doesnt matter too much) and CS source the community has been split in half once 
 again. This time it hurts both games as there are not enough good, playable or non laggy servers 
 as there should be. In my personal opinion, the DoD classic Players should convert to source, not 
 only because of the superb source engine but also because of the revisions done to the classes 
 making it a more fair and balanced game. However there is still A LOT missing in DoD source to 
 make it stand out. For instance there are only four maps all of which are well designed and fun 
 to play albeit. Another flaw is there are still (for me) quite a few crash bugs that will happen 
 occasionally. Then the worst problem is the collision detection with the players. Sometiems i find 
 myself stuck with another player even if we're both standing but we just manage to run into each 
 other. You also HAVE to jump/crouch over a prone person which can lead to a lame way of dying. 
 Otherwise though the game is amazing, if Valve stays commited we should be seeing a patch or update 
 of some kind that fixes the bugs and adds new maps, and possibly add the british back into other 
 maps. In conclusion though, if you want a WW2 game that will take time to master but pays off due 
 to the amazing game play moments you'll have.... this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer3999
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 14, 2005 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat Source shows how cool a game can look with the source engine. However the graphics 
 overshadow the rest of the game. 
  
  Here's the list:
  
  *Needs to be polished
  *A little buggy
  *Needs fixing for some of the weapon power
  *Needs tweaking for the accuracy 
 of some of the guns
  *Not very good sound.
  
  Overall its a fun game, but still needs some work. Better sounds would be nice, and new maps besides 
 the old ones. 
  
  O. K. addition to the day of defeat series.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGTAvaccine
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing DOD for awhile now. LAN games at local Korean internet cafe's (Called "PC Bangs"*said 
 like Bong*) , and I have never played a better game. Me and my friends were all thrilled when DOD: 
 Source came out, because we had drooled at the screenshots, and played our seemingly ouot-dated 
 DOD until we could finally play the elogant DOD: Source. Everytime I go to one of these "PC Bangs", 
 I have to endulge on some 15 on 15 server games of DOD: Source, because there isnt anything like 
 getting a four punch killing spree with the Thompson. So, if I would recomend DOD: Source to anyone 
 looking for a good First person shooter? Or even someone just looking for a downright good game. 
 Well the answer is yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrrotce
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I love the game and the graphics but the sound could be way better. 
  The game all in itself would be alot better if they just take more time to do a sound patch then 
 it would be killer i like capture the flag. One other thing i dont like is how fast you win or 
 lose they need to make it longer like in battlefield 2 were you have to stand there for i think 
 30 seconds until the flag is down and yours is up. Overall a good game but sound needs alot of 
 work
  i would still get it even tho the sound is crap but this was a game they made prety fast so you 
 get what u pay for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluwave
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  Well, at first I gave this game a review score of 4.4, because it wouldn't work on my computer... 
 But I found out it was my own fault and it was a issue with the memory on my pc. So, now that I 
 fixed that, the game runs almost perfectly.
  
  If you want a World War 2 game with pretty graphics, this will be your game. If you want a game 
 with capture the flag style gameplay, this is your game. If you want a game with a realistic gun 
 model (shooting is spot on) , this is your game. If you want a game with well designed maps, this 
 is your game. If you love world war 2 games, this is a must.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biker_86
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 11, 2005 11:51 am PT
Review:  Im a huge fan of WWII themed shooters, and have been looking for a decent one after European Assualt 
 failled to deliver. ive found that in Day of Defeat.
  
  If youve played Counter-Strike you know what to expect, except theyve made some great changes. 
 instead if buying weapons, you choose a class with a preset weapon combination. there are 6 to 
 choose from.
  
  so far there are 4 maps. not many, but theyre pretty good. very tight so you always have a team 
 member with you. Which is the main triumph of this game, the sense of saving private ryan battles 
 with team mates.
  
  in a bid for realism all guns kick heavily, meaning you have to crouch or lie prone to fire at 
 distance, which is greately appreciated after the god awful adrenaline from EA. the machine gun 
 can only be fired from prone or when deployed onto sandbags, another fantastic little touch.
  
  Over all one of the best FPS' ive played in a long time
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool-AN
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 11, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  Day of Defeat is an online multiplayer game focusing on realistic battle that pits Allied Forces 
 against German Forces in World War 2 (duh) . There are six different classes, all with different 
 weapons and purposes. 
  
  Once you die you have to wait around ten seconds before reinforcement arrives and you respawn. 
 There is only one mod, capture the flag. Once you have captured all the flags you win the game 
 and the next round begins.
  
  The two forces in the game (Allied, German) each have six classes which include Rifleman, Assault 
 etc. all have different weapons and are meant for different things. For instance assault units 
 carry sub machine guns that are primary meant for short to medium range combat however with some 
 practice you can also hit targets at longer distances, while the Rifleman is meant for grenade 
 support and long range targets. There are no big differences between the forces, besides the appearance 
 of the soldiers and weapons, except for a few weapon changes for each side to make it more historically 
 correct.
  
  While you can learn all the classes and they all are quite versatile, you will probably find one 
 class and stick with it. Some of the classes are easier to play then others, for instance the Assault 
 class is good at short to medium range, while the rifle class really need long range to be very 
 effective but can still get a kill at close range if you just play the class enough.
  
  The game is very team oriented. Wondering of by your self is a suicide unless you can get all the 
 flags and win the game. You die very easily in the game and even if you think you are fortified 
 enough, some one will either shoot you or throw a grenade in you face. The game can be a blast 
 if you get into a good server with good people but playing a really long game with the same map 
 can get boring.
  
  Currently the game only has around four official maps, but the map community is already working 
 hard to make good maps for it. All the maps are pretty urban oriented but only one is in a big 
 city. All the maps seem pretty balanced with alternative routes to the flags and positions to snipe 
 both the teams. While some of the maps plays best with a long range class, all of them can be played 
 with all classes.
  
  The game has a few short comings though. There are some bugs that can be pretty annoying like when 
 two soldiers go into each, they might get stuck and it can hard to get loose unless you have tried 
 it at least a couple of times. The overall map count is pretty disappointing to but that is really 
 the only things I can think of right now.
  
  Graphically the game is just plain great. The animations are good the characters are nicely detailed 
 and the environments look great, and the game doesn't need a great system to run it. 
  
  The sound is top notch to, the guns sound as like you would expect them to be and the voices communications 
 commands even echo inside the houses.
  
  Overall this is a very enjoyable game. There is only a few short comings like the lack of maps 
 and a few bugs, that are annoying but isnt a deal breaker. If you have a steam account and are 
 in any way interested in multiplayer, then you should defiantly get it, because of the low cost 
 and the overall enjoyable gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JyePhye
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 10, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, DoD: Source is one of the best online multiplayer first-person shooters to hit 
 the PC for quite some time. Sadly, because this is yet another World War II game, and because this 
 game really doesnt do anything extraordinarily revolutionary, it will be overlooked by many. The 
 main support system for this game will be the true dedicated users of Steam. Most other people 
 are occupied with Battlefield 2 or are still addicted to Counter-Strike: Source.
  First off, the actual gameplay for DoD: Source is top notch. The realism of the weapons is shocking. 
 Every gun has strikingly perfected recoil, and every single one of the weapon classes plays an 
 important role in battles. The damage you take from enemies is intensely realistic, and many times 
 just one or two shots will be enough for a kill. You are given an excellent list of commands to 
 call out to your teammates, and working together with your teammates is critical for success on 
 every map. There really are no major complaints I can make about the gameplay.
  Then there are the graphics and sound. These factors work together very well and make the overall 
 game experience just that much more extreme and realistic. The new HDR lighting system creates 
 beautiful environments, and the Source engine still stands up strong. The sound blends very well 
 into the world around you. Gunfire in the distance is muffled, the shouts from your teammates echo 
 differently depending on the surrounding area, and every little gunshot you fire looks and sounds 
 beautiful.
  In conclusion, my only huge disappointment with this game is that it was not launched with more 
 maps. Only four are currently available, but I am positive there will be more to come. If anyone 
 is looking for a new favorite online shooter, this may be just what you are looking for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoodPancake
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 10, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat Source is definitly a great game by my standards. It has it's ups and downs, but 
 overall it's pretty darn good. As many first-person shooters can turn out to be, DoDS gets old 
 (to me) after playing it for maybe an hour or so. Then again, I think all games can tend to do 
 that sometimes.
  Some of the elements that they brought into the game were very nice though. I never did end up 
 playing the DoD mod for the first Half-Life game, but I believe that much of the old gameplay is 
 brought back into this Source version. The graphics are quite nice as well as the fluidity of play. 
 Unfortunately, there are a few problems with being stuck together with other players as there are 
 respawn points in this CTF/Deathmatch style game. The class system is my favorite aspect, most 
 definitely. It gives you a wider variety of opportunities and experiences. Hahaha, nothing feels 
 better than being shot by an assault unit and respawning as a rocket soldier and blowing him to 
 bits!
  Well, long story short, it's a pretty dom game in my opinion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwollenFridge
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 1, 2005 3:43 am PT
Review:  The legendary FPS Half-Life spawned a phenomenal number of huge mods, two of which have been updated 
 with the Source engine of Half-Life 2, Day of Defeat and Counter-Strike. Counter-Strike, of course, 
 is one of the most popular games ever, but is notorious (and rightly so) for not being friendly 
 to any new players, and a majority of the CS: Source community are the old players from the original 
 CS, the one's that have been playing for at least six years. However, Day of Defeat is truly so 
 much better and so much more accessible than Counter-Strike that it should have no problem drawing 
 in new players.
  
  Day of Defeat is pretty unique, in that it's packed with the realism that annoys a lot of people. 
 A couple hits will kill you - often just one will with some guns. But unlike those other games 
 that frustrate with their realism, Day of Defeat combines it with a fast pace. Not to mention that 
 unlike in CS, where spraying bullets everywhere randomly is the name of the game, DoD simply doesn't 
 allow you to do that. If you do not aim, you will never ever hit, because weapons have a fairly 
 large recoil, especially with the automatic guns. This prevents morons who simply run around, grabbing 
 the gun with the highest rate of fire, from succeeding, because they simply get picked off by a 
 player smart enough. All this lends new and crucial importance to cover and covering fire. If you 
 stand out in the open, you will die, quickly. Despite this, you respawn quickly, and where to go 
 on the map is extremely intuitively mapped out, unlike the afore-mentioned CS and many other games 
 as well. This also creates a strange unity within the teammates even if nobody has a mic, you'll 
 be surprised how often people stick together and help each other out. Since DoD is so easily understood, 
 is easy to pick up but is honestly unlike most shooters out there, it's a true winner in the gameplay 
 category.
  
  The graphics are basically, as you can tell from the name, a souped-up Source Engine. Luckily, 
 Valve's engine has aged extremely well, and with the additions that the DoD team has added in, 
 the engine is pretty much on par with the modern games currently. 
  
  The sound is absolutely stunning, second only to the Call of Duty games in my opinion - but this 
 stuff isn't scripted. One thing really cool is how the gunfire echoes around the entire level, 
 and so you'll hear echoed sounds throughout the level that can even help guide you to your comrades 
 in battle. All in all, very good sound.
  
  The value is stunning in a way, since this game is truly a steal at 20$. All my ratings are rated 
 not as a budget game, but as an actual game, and so this game is really worth the money. It's only 
 weakness is that there are currently four maps, but with the promise of more and the afore-mentioned 
 extremely cheap price, this is still an excellent buy.
  
  All in all, DoD: Source combines extremely smart but yet accessible gameplay with a $20 price that 
 ultimately renders it a must-buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunchbox20005
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2005 2:04 am PT
Review:  this is an awesome game buy it not like anything like css in fact its something the valve developer 
 have done right NOW WITH CRAZY ACTION MISSELS and the action never stops best graphics i've seen 
 so far how with HDR its even better always being updated so its no worries that it won't best immersive 
 game which requires teamwork and not a 1 man army good mans a show off to other and completely 
 awesome rag doll action there is no other game like this 12-year old stay away from this game and 
 stick to cs cause u will not like it the maps are comming and so are the leagues IT WILL BE AWEsome. 
 this game will uses a lot of system resources but its worth it make sure u have a mid to range 
 PC in order to have a extremely good expreience on it or better yet a better way to show off your 
 comp by saying i can run this game good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nks31
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 29, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  awesome game! so glad that they kept its original gameplay with juiced up graphics. only bad thing 
 is that you will have a beter gaming experience with a computer that may cost you about 1300... if 
 you have a decent system you will not get to experience the game to its fullest, but its still 
 great! onyl bad thing is that there are 4 maps so far and a bunch of maps people created that arent 
 really worth it... but the 4 availabble are amazing and shows how good the other maps will be as 
 soon as they are ready... i can wait for now... if you like bf2, this blows it away... its fair. bf2 
 requires... REQUIRES a great system while this does not. the sound effects are some of the best 
 and the detail is amazing. you'll love iot. besides, after the purchwese you get a bunch of other 
 games as well IE: cs source.... ok ill see you in game as GENERAL. ROY owning you! sry for the spelling 
 im typing fast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chivenyc
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: awesome, really fast, but there's no pistols for rifles which makes them even more underpowered 
 since they lost some accuracy. In old DOD you would see half of your team using rilfes on Anzio. 
 Now it's only Thompson/MP40 and BAR/STG44. 9/10
  
  Graphics: as I said, only God knows what this game really requires. Many people with super AMD64 
 CPUs and 7800GTXs complain about low fps. I have a mid-range computer. I set my graphics to 1024x768 
 with HDR off, AA off, reflections off or low. The only thing that's set to high are Models, and 
 Texture. I'm getting from 40-100 fps. Even with a lot of things downsized, the graphics are still 
 pretty cool. 8/10
  
  Sound: well, I love the sounds. I have the X-Fi Fatal1ty, so of course it sounds great. Originally 
 there is a problem with hearing approaching enemy. I managed to turn the background sound off, 
 and increase sounds players make, like footsteps. 9/10
  
  Value: You can't beat the price. Stand-alone, only $20. I bought the Silver Package on November 
 16th ... or 26th, the day HL2 came out. So for $60 I got HL2, CS: S, and DOD: S. You just can't beat 
 it. 10/10.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: ? lets say 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retrosepa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 29, 2005 3:49 am PT
Review:  VALVe Software, the makers of the highly acclaimed Half Life series, finally released Day of Defeat: 
 Source to the world. Day of Defeat was one of the top modifications for Half Life 1 and was loved 
 by all, and now it has finally been remade on the Source engine.
  
  Graphics:
  This is probably the biggest improvement made to Day of Defeat. Not only does it use the excellent 
 Source engine, but it also includes HDR. Something that Half Life 2 didnt have from the start, 
 and still doesnt have it. HDR stands for High Dynamic Range, in this case HDR Lighting. More information 
 can be found here.
  
  Player models in Day of Defeat were really well done, with a lot of detail while keeping the poly 
 count as low as possible. Not only is it the detail, its also the ragdoll feature found in the 
 Source engine that makes the models react so much more lifelike, emerging the player into the game.
 
  
  Sound:
  Sound is always an important part of a game, with bad sound you really dont get pulled into the 
 game, therefore not enjoying it at all. Luckily this was not the case with Day of Defeat. The music 
 composed for this game really works well with the whole World War II theme, and really gets you 
 pumped up to go and fight.
  
  In-game weapon sounds are really amazing, as you can hear firefights in the distance. Ambient sounds 
 also help emerging the play into the game, giving a richer experience inside this World War II 
 game.
  
  Game play:
  Game play is what makes Day of Defeat. There is no other game that matches the fun and excitement 
 generated from playing an intense multiplayer game. Day of Defeat: Sources game play does seem 
 fast pace, faster than the original Day of Defeat. Some veteran Day of Defeat players will need 
 some time to get used to it, but to me it makes it more enjoyable than the original.
  
  VALVe worked a lot on Day of Defeat: Source, way more than Counter-Strike: Source. One thing they 
 worked hard on was making the physic objects react better in the world. No more bouncing off of 
 tables, no more problems with getting past or over objects. I myself am really grateful to this, 
 because I cant stand getting killed because I couldnt climb over a file cabinet.
  
  Are there problems?
  All games have problems at launch, but with Steam bugs can easily be fixed. 
 We already have an update for Day of Defeat: Source that was released yesterday which fixed a few 
 bugs. This is a good sign because people can be sure that VALVe will work on fixing all bugs, big 
 and small.
  
  Some problems I found is that you can easily get stuck with your teammates (and probably with a 
 player from the other team) when you walk close, especially at spawn. The fastest way to fix this 
 is to either shoot your teammate or just try and wiggle yourself loose. I am sure that VALVe will 
 fix this in a future update.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  Overall, I love this game. It really can be addictive, and youll find yourself playing hours on 
 end without even noticing. This is nowhere near perfect yet, but rest assured that VALVe will fix 
 any and all bugs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Unreal-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 28, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat is a world war two action first person shooter which puts two teams, the Axis and 
 the Allies against each other in a battle for control of a map.
  
  The action in Day of Defeat consists of each team fighting through the map and either attacking 
 flags, or defending the flags they have already captured.
  Most maps have about 5 flags to capture, which allows for failry large battles, however the game 
 is probably more suited to a 32 player maximum although as with Counter-Strike: Source it can be 
 played with 64.
  The maps which come with the game are very well recreated and add more detail as you would expect 
 from a Source engine overhaul.
  These maps have lots of places for you to hide if you're a sniper, or sandbag walls, window ledges, 
 boxes and so on for you to mount your MG42 and let rip on your enemies.
  The gameplay is very fast paced in DoD: S and it can get very very hectic, with gunfire and explosions 
 everywhere.
  
  All the classes make a return in the Source game, from Riflemen to Panzer/Bazooka troops.
  There's 
 also an addition of iron sights, which lets you aim through the actual sights of the weapon, however 
 this can only be done with the rifles.
  Each class has it's stong points, and it's weak points, and they are all well balanced out.
  
 Riflemen have grenades which they can attach to the end of their rifle and fire it with great accuracy 
 and distance, however their rifle is slow firing, although it is accurate, particularly when using 
 the sights on the weapon which you'll more than likely do very often.
  Possibly best suited for beginners is the MG42 and the Assault classes. These classes let you get 
 in the action and spray bullets and grenades at your enemies. The Assault is a little harder than 
 you might think at first, since as with all the weapons you will need to fire in very short bursts 
 (unless you are in very close range) and/or from a crouched or prone position.
  
  The sound in the game is high quality, and all the weapons sound accurate and powerfull.
  When 
 you are further away, explosions will echo to you, and MG fire sounds booming and powerfull.
  The sound plays an important role too, as you can easily hear people trying to run up behind you 
 and bash your head in with the spade. It's just like Counter-Strike's detail, only the distant 
 gunfire is more drowned and probably more realistic.
  
  Graphics are awesome as you'd expect from a Source game. Day of Defeat: Source was released along 
 with Valve's latest Source adition HDR or 'High Dynamic Range' which simulates accurate light, 
 reflections and more. When you exit a dull building and into the bright light of the outdoors, 
 light will bloom and be bright, then dull down a little.
  Metal also reflects light and surroundings better than ever before.
  The textures are good and 
 go for a realistic look. The models are superb and are very detailed and high quality.
  As with Counter-Strike: Source, the player animations are excellent and easily some of the best 
 in any game to date.
  Overall very realistic and detailed.
  
  Physics are very slightly different in DoD: S, since objects now do not bounce you off them like 
 they do in CS: S.
  You can now run into objects, jump on them and use them for cover, or of course shoot them.
  
 Other than the above, the physics are very well done, detailed and realistic. MG42 bullets will 
 whiz by you and into a player, sending them flying back and slumping to the ground, his weapon 
 flying into the air getting blasted by the rest of the bullets.
  It's all great and really adds to the action.
  
  Overall the game is just as you want it if 
 you're a fan of the original.
  It's fast paced, immersive and addictive.
  Teamwork also plays a role in the game since some flags can take a couple of people to capture.
 
  One downside is that there are only a few maps as of release, however as we've seen since CS: S' 
 release, there will most likely be more official Valve made maps as well as lots of community ones 
 too.
  Those who bought either Half-Life 2's Silver or Gold packages will be able to download the game 
 from Steam right now. People who bought Half-Life 2 from a store, or the Bronze edition from Steam 
 will need to buy it seperately either from Steam or later in stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbanas
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 28, 2005 12:12 am PT
Review:  Awesome game! DoD: Source offers fast-paced, brutal, WWII combat. The weapons are heavy and the 
 sounds commanding. You can snipe from a broken window or tear your opponents apart with heavy MGs. 
 The close-quarters combat in this game is unrivaled in the Multi-player world, and I've played 
 them all (or close to it) . The introduction of smoke grenades, rifle grenades, new world physics, 
 and HDR lighting enhances the already rich tactical environment of the original DoD. 
  
  Sure the net-code seems a little buggy right now during the initial release, but anyone who knows 
 Steam knows those bugs will be squashed in no time. Heck, CS: Source wasn't all that smooth at first 
 either. The fact that it comes with four maps is a bit of a downer, but, like the bugs, that will 
 be fixed soon. The custom sound/map/model community for DoD has always been incredibly active, 
 so we'll soon have tons of custom maps as well as new official ones (which are downloaded painlessly 
 through Steam) . 
  
  I know, I know, we all like to drive vehicles. If you're in that mood (as I am sometimes) , go play 
 BF2 or COD multiplayer. But if you want a blazing, intense, bloody, cruel, explosive, breath-taking, 
 destructive, devastating, and downright killer virtual combat experience, DoD: Source is unmatched 
 in what it has to offer you. Think you have what it takes? Come to the servers and bring it on! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renegadedod
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 11:03 pm PT
Review:  There are many changes implemented in the game, Day of Defeat: Source, some bad, but overall good. 
 one problem which addicts/players of day of dfeat will think is that valve tried to make day of 
 defeat more realistic and resulted in making it unrealistic.
  
  A change that may outrage some people but impress others is the taking away of melee (secondary 
 attack) on the rifles (garand and kar) . instead they replaced them with a gun to sight option in 
 which it increases accuracy. Also for the rifles, they have changed the option of throwing grenades 
 normally. the rifles attach the grenades to the end of their guns and shoot them sending them farther 
 and more accurate distances then before, b tu the grenades do not blow up on contact - they still 
 have a timer in them. This is very useful when you want to project a grenade into a window, because 
 you just have to aim for the window (not aim above it and geuss where to throw to get it in like 
 in normal day of defeat) . even though propelling the grenades longer distances with more accuracies 
 is good, it takes a couple of seconds to put the grenade on the rifle, which means you can't just 
 switch to it and fire instantly.
  
  another huge change that excites all players is the ability to set up your machine gun on any surface. 
 now you don't have to just set up only in designated set up areas (windows sandbags, bunkers) or 
 be prone. you can find some random object that will make a good area of over and set up there and 
 blast away.
  
  valve also decided to phase out some guns/classes so that there is now only 6 per army. they also 
 phased out the british army, so all their guns are gun also (evidence: british do not fight on 
 flash in DoD: Source) . the classes are down to the basics: riflemen, assault (submachine gun. ie: 
 thompson) , support (ie: bar) , sniper, machine gunner, bazooka. the bazooka man (on the US army) 
 gets the carbine as a secondary weapon (instead of a pistol) whihc means that that phased out class's 
 gun is still avaiable under another class for fans of the carbine, BUT you only have 2 clips of 
 ammo (not including the one already in the gun) . For the axis bazooka (panzershrek... i cannot 
 spell it exactly) you get a machine-gun pistol, which is basically an luger-uzi. it has a clip 
 that is around the size of a thompson.
  
  the new maps and graphics is the main focus of day of defeat: source. it is the reason source is 
 so good. one thing was lost in the making of day of defeat: source: the atmosphere. day of defeat: 
 source loses some-most of the world war 2 feel. the usually grey and bland setting of world war 
 2 areas/maps have been made to look like it is in the day time on a sunny day. certain maps (like 
 donner) should have that bland/grey setting to make it more believable since that is what the setting 
 was like throughout europe. if they ever make a charlie (omaha) map for day of defeat: source they 
 will definetely need to add that setting to it or else it will look like utter crap. the people's 
 appearances look much better than before. they even look better than all of the best DoD skins 
 that are available. the people dieing are much better (and they have addes some realistic sounds 
 so when people die they sometimes scream before being taken down) . all the weapon sounds are so 
 much better than before. they sound realistic, and when you hear a machine gun fireing somewhere 
 off on some other part of the map is actually sounds like a machine gun being shot from far away 
 and not just a machine gun fireing and the volume you are hearing is lower than it would be closer.
 
  
  another thing they introduced i would like to talk about is the smoke grenade. some people hate 
 it because they either can't see when they go through it or when the enemy goes through it, while 
 others lvoe it because they can cover where they are going and "blind" the enemy so they can run 
 by quickly without being shot, though the smoke grenades do "promote" random blind shooting (especially 
 when you know the enemy is in it) , so machine gunners are still likely to mow you down if you put 
 a smoke greande in your path.
  
  well, the pros and cons most be weighed, and the pros are much higher. even people who dislike 
 a lot of aspects about dod will learn to adjsut and maybe even love the new changes... though if 
 the players had their way they would change a lot of stuff back to normal and just keep the graphics.
 
  
  you'll see me playing it as ReNeGADe -|m0m|- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Typwn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 27, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Day of Defeat: Source is the long awaited remake of Day of Defeat in the source engine. Much like 
 CounterStrike: Source, Day of Defeat: Source features the same weapons, maps, and armies as its 
 original.
  
  Gameplay: Having only played Day of Defeat for a few hours before playing Day of Defeat: Source, 
 I can safely say they are completely different. The Source version seemed to have a faster pace, 
 felt much more solid than the original, and was easier on the eyes. Multiplayer is the main portion 
 of this game, and it is amazingly fun and fast paced. There do seem to be weapon and map balance 
 issues, such as the American weapons being all around better than the German, and most maps give 
 an advantage to one side or the other. The overall feel of the game is a mix of Battlefield 2 and 
 Brothers in Arms, which is a very good thing. Also, and this may come as a shock to you, Day of 
 Defeat: Source is pretty challenging, not so much because of the people you are playing against, 
 but because it takes a lot of skill to master the recoil of the weapons and map layouts to become 
 an effective solider. The maps are very detailed with tons of hiding places and paths to objectives, 
 but this also brings campers and lots of them. In all honesty though, many times you are forced 
 to camp as there are many ways the enemy can enter from, and it only takes a second to capture 
 an outpost which can win you the game, or have you running for your life as the winners get to 
 slaughter the unarmed losers. And I do have to point out that it is extremely easy to team kill 
 in this game, so unless someone has done it five times in a row, I'd just shake it off and get 
 back to the game. I do think the lack of bots hurts Day of Defeat: Source, only because there's 
 absolutely no offline mode.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Day of Defeat: Source are what you have come to expect of games on the 
 Source engine, and with the addition of High-Dynamic Range Lighting, the source engine has never 
 looked better. The weapons in Day of Defeat: Source are very detailed, from the scratches on the 
 Thompson to the wood grain on the K98k. The animations for reloading, running, crouching and all 
 other movements are seamless, smooth and fit in perfectly with the game. The character model faces 
 are amazingly lifelike and detailed, the clothes on the other hand are very plain and don't show 
 any signs of detail, including wrinkles. The environment is hazy with war, smoke billows out of 
 craters and old time ovens and tables fill the insides of homes and apartments. It really sets 
 the mood and time frame of the game, and just adds that much more to the experience. I do have 
 a couple gripes about the flags which are a little low poly, and the bushes which look like little 
 effort was put into them. Another gripe is the confusing shellshock after a frap grenade, as you 
 don't know if the game froze or if you're even alive anymore.
  
  Sound: The sounds in Day of Defeat: Source are just amazing, especially with a surround sound setup. 
 Shots can be heard in the distance, people capturing outposts can be heard yelling that it's secure 
 and you can hear your equipment rattling and your feet silently thumping the ground as you run 
 to another place for cover. I can not describe how immersive the sounds are, and it really makes 
 you feel like you're there fighting in World War II. One thing I could do without are the words 
 of encouragement that spill over my speakers at twice the volume of the rest of the game, was a 
 nice touch, but gave me a headache after a while. The player voice commands also consisted of high 
 quality voice acting, and I didn't feel like there were any I wouldn't use.
  
  Value: If you have Silver Steam, load this puppy up and play! But, if you are one of the Bronze 
 folks, or just bought a Half-Life 2 copy in a store, Day of Defeat is definitely a game I can recommend 
 you purchasing, even at full price. Its a fast paced, beautifully detailed, addictive game and 
 will keep you playing into the wee hours of the morning. I do think there should have been some 
 sort of offline bots, but we won't know if they'll be in until a couple months down the road. If 
 you are a FPS, WWII or Death Match buff, you should definitely think about getting Day of Defeat: 
 Source.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2005 4:59 pm PT
Review:  To begin, I must say that I play a lot of FPS games, both online and off. However, I can honestly 
 say that I have played Day of Defeat in it's numerous iterations more that any other game... ever. 
 When similar products become stale, I have always been able to go gravitate back to Day of Defeat, 
 despite the fact that until now, it's graphics were years behind competing products in the genre. 
 Well DOD: S solves the game's only shortcoming... and then some! It is a wonder to behold from a 
 graphical perspective, and incredibly, the conversion over to the Source engine has not only maintained 
 the core gameplay elements that seperate DOD from the pack, (namely it's accurate weapons and damage 
 modeling and physics) but also enhanced the gameplay in a fresh way. 
  
  Newcomers will find much to enjoy here. DOD is all about fast paced, squad combat. If you are looking 
 for vehicles, try EA's offerings. This game is about close quarters combat and teamwork with your 
 close-knit squad, so as long as you don't demand your shooters to include tanks and airplanes, 
 you can really appreciate everything DOD has to offer. (Don't get me wrong... I like vehicles, 
 but that's a totally different genre of game. If you like pure infantry based online shooters, 
 DOD: S has got the goods.) 
  
  The Pros:
  
  The physics are the best in any shooter, period. Your weapon FEELS like it should... powerful and 
 responsive. Arcade elements are kept to a minimum, relative to other games in the genre. You can 
 destroy elements of the environments, and the ragdoll death animations are the best in the business. 
 I love that you can kill with a single shot from the Kar 98 or Garand. (Just don't shoot their 
 extremeties!) 
  
  Graphics and sound are amazing in this Day of Defeat. I couldn't believe it when I 1st saw HDR 
 (High Dynamic Range lighting) in it's glory. Basically, the game engine simulates the dilation 
 of your pupils when you go from light to dark. The adjustment is a subltle one, but looks absolutely 
 realistic. And then there's the water. Oh... the water. If you've played a SOURCE game before, 
 you know what I mean. The textures and models are all crisp and well laid out. These are, in my 
 opinion, the finest maps ever created for an online shooter. Bravo, Valve! So beautiful. Shadows 
 play a big role this time around, and are more than cosmetic improvements. It's fun hiding in ald 
 familiar hiding places now covered in shadows. Veteran players accostomed to being able to see 
 these places are suprised when they see your muzzle flash half a second before they die. So the 
 graphics add gameplay imorovements as well as cosmetic ones. 
  
  The sound is so damn good it's almost in a class of it's own. Veterans of the series and newcomers 
 alike will really appreciate the newly recorded voicework, ambient noises, and satisfying explosiveness 
 of the weapon effects. Even better than the Medal of Honor and Call of Duty audio, which says a 
 lot.
  
  The Cons: 
  
  As mentioned earlier, the weapons do more damage than many other online shooters in the genre, 
 newcomers may find it frustrating how easily they die initially. I remember dying over and over 
 and over again when I started playing, and this could discourage some players. However, the problem 
 of insta-death is easily solved by becoming familiar with the maps. There are numerous routes and 
 hidey-holes that veterans will use to pwn newcomers, but once the player becomes familiar with 
 the mapsm it just becomes a matter of outflanking your adversary. 
  
  The addition of smoke grenades for assaulters and grenade launchers for rifleman add elements to 
 the game which change it's core formula significantly. These are only going to bother the old gaurd 
 who won't like any new changes to their beloved franchise, but I think they are both interesting 
 additions. Still, some people might not like the changes. Other changes that have the community 
 steamed (pun intended) invlove not giving riflemen pistols or melee attacks. Me? I don't care, 
 but a lot of people hate not having close quarters options. 
  
  So check it out if you are a shooter fan. It's online only, just like Counter Strike, but without 
 all the pesky waiting around for the next round. If you like great graphics, fast paced play, and 
 WWII, stop reading and start downloading Day of Defeat: Source. It's only $20 on STEAM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwdrums36
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 27, 2005 4:20 am PT
Review:  As we all know, VALVe makes some of the best and most played multiplayer games to date, including 
 the CS series, Ricochet, and Half-Life multiplayer. These games have caused third-party developers 
 to create a slew of games using the Steam Engine. But with Day of Defeat: Source, they go above 
 and beyond anything we've seen before. 
  
  Gameplay: Typical VALVe multiplayer play, which is great. The controls are easy to use and easy 
 to pick up and can be customized to your liking. I recommend the W, A, S, D set-up myself.
  
  Graphics: Nothing ground-breaking but there's a lot that goes on so the graphics are just right 
 for the amount of action so as not to slow the game down considerably.
  
  Sound: Awesome sound effects. If you have 5.1 hooked up to your computer it can actually be sort 
 of scary if someone's shooting behind you.
  
  Value: Extremely valuable!!! We've come to expect big things from VALVe and this doesn't fall short 
 at all.
  
  Tilt: I'm a HUGE fan of the whole series, so I'm a bit biased...
  
  -Difficulty can vary based on who you play against online. (There is no Single-player mode)
  
 -The learning curve is 0-30 minutes, but to really master the game requires ALOT of practice.
 
  
  Overall, it's a damn good game and if your a fan of Half-Life or just looking for something to 
 hold you over until Call of Duty 2 comes out (Is anyone as excited as me?!?!) , this is definetly 
 the game for you. AND IT'S ONLY $20.00 THROUGH STEAM!!! Does it get better than that? I think not...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jealentus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 27, 2005 2:42 am PT
Review:  Day of Defeat Source was an ambitious remake of the classic valve Half Life modification Day of 
 Defeat. It got a facelift for better graphics, sound, and updated gameplay. I would say it has 
 been worth the wait and is a must have for any PC enthusiast, especially for those who have played 
 the original. They make a few twists on DoD 1.6 for the better, such as weapon balance and control 
 scheme. You can now aim down the sights with your rifle which are great for coutering snipers or 
 long range enemies now, instead of keeping it medium like the original. Grenades launched from 
 the rifle are a bit of a dissapointment but hey, it's a twist on the original and it works. It 
 makes for some much better sniper removal situations. The assualt class now has a punch, which 
 can save you in close quarter battles when you run out of ammo, which has saved my rear 3 times 
 so far since it came out today. The M1 Carbine is set as the sidearm for the Bazooka class soldier, 
 and has been dropped in power to compensate for the inclusion of the bazooka. All in all I'd say 
 the game is a good remake of a classic game, and the updated grahpics and slightly altered maps 
 make for a much more rewarding and enjoyable experiance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmantey
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2005 2:25 am PT
Review:  This game is a great WWII online objective based shooter game. It makes great use of the Source 
 engine, HDR, and sound. The only problem is it is really laggy in the fastest servers that have 
 over 10 people. 10 people is the amount of people the server could handle and it was 1 of the fatest 
 and i have a decent computer and comcast internet. DOD: S has an evenly based weapons were you never 
 feel screwed over because it is based on what kind of tatical situation you are in. This game is 
 also really team based, if you go solo i garuantee you will not get far into battle before you 
 have to respawn. This game is really fun and any PC fps fan can get into this game i give it a 
 10/10 but beware of lag most people. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
