-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Deadly Dozen
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deadlydozen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.1, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 152 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Nfusion
Genre: Historic Tactical Shooter
Date:     Oct 31, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Deadly Dozen is Infogrames' entry into the previously nonexistent world of budget-priced tactical 
 shooters. And true to the genre's recent run of luck, it's pretty darn good. 

  Though it's been a generally lackluster period for PC action games, tactical shooters have had 
 a great year. Between the ambitious Operation Flashpoint, the much-anticipated successor to the 
 venerable Rogue Spear franchise, Ghost Recon, and the ongoing popularity of user-created mods such 
 as Counter-Strike and Day of Defeat, fans of the genre have had more good games to play than ever 
 before. For better or worse, the genre has even gained its own massively multiplayer game with 
 the release of WWII Online. It was only a matter of time, then, before budget publishers noticed 
 the trend and capitalized on it. The result is Deadly Dozen, Infogrames' entry into the previously 
 nonexistent world of budget-priced tactical shooters. And true to the genre's recent run of luck, 
 it's pretty darn good.           Deadly Dozen features 10 big missions, some of which can be very 
 intense.    

  As the title implies, Deadly Dozen tells the story of 12 unruly but tough army misfits who, during 
 World War II, were picked to man an elite squad of guerilla fighters for undercover missions behind 
 enemy lines. Honestly, though, it's really the Deadly Dozen manual that does most of the storytelling. 
 True to the example set by its full-priced competition, Deadly Dozen isn't heavy on plot, which 
 is just fine.   

  The game is structured as an unrelated series of missions. Before each one, you're given a quick 
 briefing on the mission goals. There are usually between one and four main goals, and these generally 
 consist of finding something and then blowing it up. The final goal of each mission is always the 
 same: guide the surviving members of your team to an extraction point.   

  You can pick up to four men to execute each mission and then outfit each of them with two weapons 
 and three equipment items. The men are each rated in seven categories: small arms, heavy weapons, 
 explosives, sniping, medical, sneaking, and toughness. The effects of most of these attributes 
 are very clear -- someone with a high sniping skill has a noticeably better chance of killing an 
 enemy in one rifle shot, and health packs are more effective when administered by a squad member 
 with a good medical rating. Any team member killed in action becomes unavailable for the rest of 
 the game, which provides some continuity between missions and acts as an incentive to keep everyone 
 alive.   

  The 10 missions take place across various locations in Europe and North Africa. Most levels include 
 a mix of both indoor and outdoor environments, and all are huge. The graphics, while not state 
 of the art, are certainly above average, especially for a budget game. The 3D engine is capable 
 of producing some striking outdoor scenes, and the various smoke and weather effects are all well 
 done. The one big letdown is that all the levels are filled with fog, including ones that take 
 place in the desert in broad daylight. Perhaps to boost engine performance, an opaque plane of 
 fog is pretty close at all times. So even though the levels each represent what's probably a couple 
 of square miles, you'll never really get a panoramic view of your surroundings.   

  The fog also contributes to the game's biggest flaw -- the enemy artificial intelligence. The Nazis 
 you're fighting tend to have the uncanny ability, once they detect you, to pinpoint your position 
 and fire on you, even if you can't really see them through the murk. If you shoot an unsuspecting 
 guard from a distance using the sniper scope and don't manage to kill him, he'll instantly find 
 you and fire back with deadly accuracy, even if he's armed only with an unsighted rifle. On levels 
 with a lot of cover, this isn't as much of a problem, as it becomes easier to creep from building 
 to building and plan your attacks more carefully. But in missions that have a lot of fog and not 
 a lot of cover, you end up having to abandon most of the squad-based parts of the game. Even though 
 you can give orders, such as follow, hold position, and attack, and set formations and control 
 each man individually, the only member of your squad who's really useful in a lot of situations 
 is the guy with the perfect rating in both sneaking and sniping. You'll often find yourself either 
 attempting these missions with just one man or using the other three soldiers as pack mules to 
 hang back and carry extra health kits and ammo.   

  Still, this same AI complaint can be made against a lot of Deadly Dozen's competition, and the 
 enemy soldiers are at least predictable. While these flaws make a few of the levels -- like the second 
 one in which you're fighting through a graveyard maze in almost total darkness -- more annoying than 
 fun, some of the missions are great. For instance, one that involves sneaking from house to house 
 through a burnt-out French village ranks among the most atmospheric, tensest, and generally best-executed 
 levels in any tactical shooter to date.           As a budget-priced tactical shooter, Deadly Dozen 
 is surprisingly good.    

  This bad news/good news pattern cuts through all of Deadly Dozen. On the one hand, enemy tanks 
 have the same unnatural ability to locate your position as do the superhuman soldiers, but on the 
 other hand, you can drive cars! There's no multiplayer, but the squad AI is good. Some users have 
 experienced problems running the game under Windows XP, but those who get it to work often seem 
 pleasantly surprised. For some reason, Deadly Dozen unmaps the forward movement key every time 
 you boot it up, but the system for giving orders to your squad is concise and easy to use. The 
 mission maps are often not exactly accurate; one even has the wrong primary targets circled. But 
 the orchestral score is exceptional by turns stirring and moody.   

  Ultimately, Deadly Dozen is more enjoyable than frustrating. It's not perfect, but given the grim 
 history of budget titles, "not perfect" qualifies Deadly Dozen for the Nobel prize for cheap games. 
 And it would probably win it in a year in which Serious Sam didn't also come out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Music: 9.0
  The music at the menu is pretty good, and can get stuck in your head. When your playing, there 
 is no music, which is highly realistic because... sounds.
  
  Sound: 9.5
  You hear a bird in the background, you hear frogs, you hear bugs buzzing around. It's great.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8.0
  Its just sorta annoying that its a stealth game where you can't sneak up behind people, but the 
 rest of the game isn't too bad. It's for the patient of you, because you have the same amount of 
 health as all the AI do. good thing you can switch between your squadron of 4.
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  The graphics aren't good, but for 2001, come on, thats only a few years after 
 HL. And compared to HL the graphics rule. (I'm not bagging Hl, great game it is, better than this 
 ROFL!!) .
  
  Replay: 7.6
  
  Value: 9.5
  You get it off ebay, thats it! (i got it for like $5 AU)
  
  PROS:
  Sounds
  
  CONS:
 
  Can't sneak up behind people, you pretty much just have to snipe em or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Ever since a bunch of inbred idiots down in Arkansas bought craploads of Deer Hunter games and 
 made the publishers gobs of cash, weve been on the receiving end of a ceaseless stream of asinine 
 budget titles. More often than not, these games arent fun, are missing features like AI, and 
 generally suck a ton of ass. Lets add Deadly Dozen to that distinguished lineage.
  
  Based on the memoirs of real-life ass kicker Major General Quinton Maxwell (the man responsible 
 for Project Juno Gold, whose 12 members Eisenhower called the deadliest in the world  thus 
 their new moniker) , Deadly Dozen is a tactical action game set during World War II. And boy, does 
 it stink.
  
  Commanding a four-man team across 10 missions, you select and equip your boys based on a pre-mission 
 intelligence report, and then send them off to die. And die they will, because for some reason 
 the enemies in Deadly Dozen have an uncanny ability to spot you from two miles off and then shoot 
 you through walls. Better still, magic German bullets freeze you, so once youre hit you cant 
 move or return fire until the guy shooting you has to reload. Assuming you live that long.
  
  On the positive side, the uniforms look realistic. Though thats the praise they gave Ed Woods 
 play.
  
  As for the elite commandos under your control, they probably didnt graduate from kindergarten, 
 let alone boot camp. Theyll lose you if you enter a large building, wont return fire when shot 
 at point-blank range (even when theyve been ordered to fire at will) , and wont seek cover when 
 they come under fire. Brilliant.
  
  Toss in the insane system requirements  Dozen chugged even on my 1.33GHz Athlon with 512MB of 
 RAM  and youve got a game that gives budget a bad name. Someone, please think of the children 
 and put an end to this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hynnin
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Deadly Dozen is indeed a great simulator, not for hardcore gamers, but for patient and strategy 
 freak players, in the simulator mode each shot deals the amount of pain in your ego as it would 
 do in yourself, prepare to be decimated by one single soldier if you're unprepared tactically or 
 emotionally.
  
  Its so hard that you need all the time in the world to wait for the best moment, thats in the simulator 
 mode, if you wish to play on arcade mode, it doesn't matter, just charge at an entire army taking 
 bullets everywhere that you'll feel the same thing.
  
  The game itself lacks of content, its basically the same thing, kill, capture, run, or something 
 else thats not very important, but the fact is, the only difference its the number of soldiers 
 patrolling the goal area and a few buildings or scenarios that doesn't change the main role.
  
  What saves the game its the soldiers skills, each one of them must be chosen accordingly to 
 the map and goals, wants to charge to a fortified barricade? Choose a heavy weapon guy, want to 
 plant a bomb? Choose a bomber, stealth is your second name? Choose a sniper with the support of 
 light weapons, that makes the game slightly different from one map to another, but thats not a 
 major feature that could make the entire game more fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
