-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dead to Rights
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deadtorights/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 24, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.2, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 318 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hip Games
Developer: Namco
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Nov 10, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're looking for a unique twist on the single-player PC shooter, then Dead to Rights is worth 
 your while. 

  Nothing delivers a vicarious thrill quite like a slick, big-budget action movie. Hollywood blockbusters, 
 like  Face/Off  and  The Rock , in addition to some of Hong Kong's finest movie fare, like  The 
 Killer  and  A Better Tomorrow , put you right in the middle of intense modern-day shoot-outs between 
 the "goodest" good guys and the baddest bad guys. Films like these are undeniably exciting, but 
 they sometimes leave you wondering how on earth the good guys managed to beat such impossible odds. 
 The answer is obvious: These movies aren't real. Of course, Dead to Rights isn't real, either. 
 If you've ever wondered what it might feel like to be the lone action hero who's pitted up against 
 a ridiculous number of enemies, this game is about as close as you'll get. Dead to Rights was originally 
 released in the summer of 2001 -- exclusively for the Xbox -- where its intense difficulty level polarized 
 the game's audience, as some loved the relentless challenge, while others couldn't handle it. The 
 subsequent PlayStation 2 and GameCube versions, for better or worse, greatly toned down the game's 
 difficulty, thus making Dead to Rights a whole lot more accessible and slightly less nerve-wracking, 
 though no less action-packed. Now a PC port of the game is available, and while it doesn't look 
 like much and controls differently than you're probably used to, it still delivers plenty of entertaining 
 combat.  

          Jack Slate: expert marksman, martial arts master, dog person.     

  Dead to Rights is about a K-9 cop named Jack Slate, who does what he can to keep the peace in a 
 criminal cesspool called Grant City. At the beginning of the game, Slate and his trusty dog Shadow 
 are investigating a mysterious construction site. There, Slate discovers that someone very close 
 to him has been murdered. Against direct orders, he sets off to find some answers and to seek revenge. 
 The story, as told through Jack's deadpan narration and the occasional CG cutscene, seems pretty 
 straightforward at first. During the course of the game, however, it actually takes some decent 
 twists and eventually becomes quite involving. The best that can be said for it is that, unlike 
 most stories in games, this one does a commendable job of tying up all its loose ends before the 
 credits roll.  

  Superficially, Dead to Rights unquestionably resembles Max Payne. This is mostly because that game, 
 like Dead to Rights, is clearly inspired by a certain breed of action movies, the most notable 
 of which is probably  The Matrix . Like Max Payne, Dead to Rights is the tale of a fugitive cop 
 who's apparently fighting alone in his war against a sinister, corrupt organization. Even the game's 
 respective main characters have a lot in common. Their names sound alike, their dialogue is hammy 
 and melodramatic, they shrug off bullet wounds, they shoot rapidly with two pistols at once, and 
 when they leap through the air, all the action around them slows down. That's a lot of similarities, 
 but that's also where the similarities end.  

  Dead to Rights plays differently from Max Payne -- and from most other action games, for that matter. 
 Most of the game consists of third-person action sequences in which Slate has to gun down countless 
 foes before reaching his next objective. Just as the plot in Dead to Rights offers up a few surprises, 
 so does the gameplay. Simple yet inventive minigames frequently figure into the action, as Slate 
 will have to do all kinds of things, from disarming bombs to lifting weights to picking locks. 
 These minigames rely on precise timing and/or button mashing, and they make for fun diversions. 
 Also, Slate will have to fight unarmed in a number of sequences. Fortunately, he can switch to 
 unarmed combat in the middle of a gunfight.  

  There's a lot to say about the action in Dead to Rights because Slate is a versatile fighter. He 
 can carry a number of different firearms at once, and the game features a wide selection of real-world 
 pistols, shotguns, submachine guns, assault rifles, sniper rifles, and more. He'll typically salvage 
 these from fallen foes, but he wastes no time reloading, opting instead to coolly toss aside depleted 
 weapons. Aiming in Dead to Rights is automatic. You just press and hold the right mouse button, 
 and Slate will draw a bead on the closest foe. Once that enemy goes down, you press the right mouse 
 button again to find your next target. You can also opt to manually aim from a first-person perspective. 
 This rarely figures into play, though you'll sometimes need to do so when using sniper rifles. 

          Dead to Rights is filled with shooting and brawling sequences, plus there are numerous 
 minigames.     

  Your enemies are plentiful, heavily armed, and armored and are often quite deadly. They'll rush 
 at you, but Dead to Rights feels like an arcade game, so you probably won't question their reckless 
 tactics. As for you, if you wish to improve your chances of survival, you'll need to make use of 
 all of Slate's defensive maneuvers while fighting. A martial arts expert, Slate can disarm his 
 foes at close range by snatching their weapons while delivering a deathblow with dramatic flair. 
 Alternatively, he can put a vice grip on most any foe. This allows Slate to use the opponent as 
 a human shield while retaining the ability to shoot back (at least with one weapon) . If his hostage 
 isn't killed by friendly fire, Slate can coldly put the fool out of his misery with a bullet to 
 the head or a shot in the back. This isn't exactly lighthearted stuff.  

  Slate's got even more moves. He can duck behind cover and can also flatten his back against a wall, 
 thus priming himself to spring out and start shooting from around a corner. And, sure enough, he 
 can leap through the air in any direction while keeping his guns trained on his foes. Pressing 
 and holding the jump button causes the action to go into slow motion in midjump, while, for some 
 reason, you get to retain a real-time rate of fire, which allows you to take out multiple targets 
 before you hit the ground. This maneuver is hardly realistic, but it's exciting and acts as a real 
 lifesaver. Your ability to use it is governed by an adrenaline meter that works like bullet time 
 in Max Payne. The meter fills back up as you defeat enemies, and it also refills gradually with 
 time, but it's well balanced so you can't get away with using this powerful move excessively.  
    

  Guess what? Slate's got even more tricks up his sleeve. He can grab explosive canisters -- conveniently 
 strewn about some of the levels -- toss them at his foes, and then shoot the canisters as they're 
 nearing their targets, thereby allowing him to blow up several baddies at once. Unarmed, Slate 
 can perform various combinations of punches and kicks, as well as a limited number of grappling 
 moves. He can block enemy punches and kicks, too, or he can break enemy grapples with a well-timed 
 button press. Don't forget about Shadow the dog, who basically works like a recharging superweapon. 
 You can sic Shadow on any nearby foe with a simple button combination, and then you'll suddenly 
 be watching a slow-motion close-up of Shadow as he mauls his victim. The faithful mutt then kindly 
 brings the enemy's weapon to you and vanishes as suddenly as he appears. He'll be ready for another 
 meal in less than a minute. You'll come to rely on Shadow often, but, as a gameplay mechanic, this 
 dog could have used some more attention. The way he's implemented just doesn't make any sense. 
 At any rate, don't worry about sending your dog into the middle of a firefight, because he'll always 
 come out unscathed. If only you were so lucky.  

          Unlike most any other shooter available for the PC, aiming is automatically handled in 
 Dead to Rights.     

  It's surprising to see problems like disappearing dogs. Other aspects of the game clearly could 
 have used some more work too -- especially the camera. Usually, you can rotate the camera around 
 by using the mouse (or the right analog stick on a dual analog gamepad, though the default keyboard 
 and mouse controls basically work well) . You'll have to, because the camera doesn't do a good job 
 of tracking your movement all by itself. As you might imagine, having to futz around with the perspective 
 while trying to take on a dozen enemies with AK-47s doesn't make the proceedings any easier. The 
 camera also wigs out when you get into tight corridors, and you'll be in tight corridors fairly 
 often. Additionally, the camera angle is unpredictably locked in some sequences, but this isn't 
 any better than the free-roaming camera and will only disorient you even more. The best thing about 
 the camera is how it snaps to whichever enemy you have targeted. During brawling sequences, the 
 targeting doesn't work the same way, and you'll occasionally get blindsided by enemies who attack 
 you from just off the edge of the screen.  

  You'll invariably take a lot of hits as you fight your way through the game's selection of more 
 than a dozen chapters. So you'll be constantly on the lookout for health and armor power-ups, which 
 can instantly take you from death's door to perfect shape -- not that Slate looks or acts any differently 
 based on his health and armor levels. The shooting sequences are actually very fun once you get 
 the hang of them. Throughout the game, you'll also take on a number of powerful bosses, and while 
 the early boss battles are straightforward slugfests, some of the later ones are much more interesting. 
 The brawling sequences are usually neither interesting nor particularly fun, though. Your enemies 
 block and counterattack seemingly at random, though their attack power has been heavily toned down 
 since the original Xbox version. Disappointingly, all your standard foes also basically use the 
 same canned punch-and-kick combos and throws that you have access to. Worse yet, though you'll 
 be fighting large groups of enemies hand-to-hand, you can't knock or throw an enemy into his cohorts. 
 Enemies won't coordinate their attacks, either. Instead, they'll stand idly by as you beat up their 
 pals. The fact that the brawling is relatively easy is a mixed blessing, since, while it really 
 isn't very good, it won't be as much of a sticking point as it was in the Xbox version.  

          Though it's based on a year-old console game, Dead to Rights holds up pretty well on the 
 PC and delivers an exciting single-player shooting experience that's at least different.     

 
  The game runs smoothly, at least. Jack himself looks OK, and you'll see him sporting several different 
 outfits throughout the game. Many of the other characters look blocky and simple, and none of them 
 move their mouths when speaking. Most of the game's environments can be described in the same fashion, 
 as they all use lots of bland, blurry textures and some rather ugly-colored lighting. For what 
 it's worth, some of the levels -- like the neon-lit streets of Chinatown -- do look considerably better 
 than the others do. Interestingly, none of the game's environments are destructible, so you'll 
 use things like wooden boxes to protect yourself from munitions that would rip right through them 
 in real life. Dead to Rights does feature some stylish animations, especially for Slate's various 
 combat moves. Some of the special effects are well done, though the garish pools of blood left 
 behind by slain enemies look like something out of a horror movie or like something you'd use to 
 top off a peanut butter sandwich. The game sounds pretty good. The voice acting is hit-and-miss, 
 though Jack has some pretty good lines. The music is mostly subdued and, at times, repetitive, 
 but the report from all the various weapons is loud and clear.  

  We experienced a major bug in the first level of the game, which prevented us from playing any 
 further. Publisher Hip Games quickly addressed the problem with a patch, and the rest of the time 
 we spent with the game was spent without incident. Or, rather, it was spent without any additional 
 technical foibles, as the game itself is full of "incidents" and pure action. Though Dead to Rights 
 looks like a watered-down port of an aging console game (in fact, its looks were never its strong 
 suit) , its gameplay still holds up and survives the translation intact. It's not just another cookie-cutter 
 shooter but plays differently in a number of key ways. So if you're looking for a unique twist 
 on the single-player PC shooter, then Dead to Rights is worth your while.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  As I said in the heading, this is a nice game with a few nice ideas, such as the dog, the targeting 
 system and a couple of other level related ideas. 
  
  It deserves between 7 and 7.5 but I will give it 7.5 as it attempted to introduce innovative ideas. 
 It has elements of GTA and Manhunt in it (I wonder why) , so it does attempt to make an impact but 
 it's just another shooter that you should play if no other good games are available. 
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 
 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8iy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  Dead to rights is Long not because of the story but because you get to die aLot! The story Line 
 is not that good and you'LL feeL bored from the middLe of the game. OverraLL the game has an acceptabLe 
 graphic with a poor storyLine and is quite hard, as it makes the gamer feeL frustrated during the 
 game because of the number of times he dies and is forced to repeat the whoLe LeveL aLL over again, 
 that can be reaLLy annoying. His dog stuff can be pretty cooL but stupid at the same time I mean 
 ordering a dog to bite a man carrying AK-47 come on, Namco shouLd keep concentrating on fighting 
 games not on adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConstantinNC
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 10, 2004 4:23 am PT
Review:  Well, I have nothing much to say about this game, but comparing to some of the top games in 2003 
 like Call of Duty and Halo, this game is somehow out of date.
  
  Game Play:
  The game have nice set of moves that I like to see in other games, like wall mode, slow motion 
 dives, disarm and taking human shield, and one move which I find it very cool is shooting fire 
 extinguishers in mid air to take out multiple enemies, other than that there is nothing interesting 
 in the action, you mainly go around and shoot people.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are not competitive and outdated.
  
  
  Its good to pass time, not bad for $10 game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 12, 2004 5:59 am PT
Review:  Dead to Rights is a fun game that is something different. Its not very pretty and its not all 
 that polished either, but I still had a pretty good time playing it. 
  
  You cant compare it to another PC game, because there isnt really one like it out there. There 
 is a huge variety of activities in the game. One thing that you cant say about Dead to Rights 
 is that its repetitive. About 50% of the game is arcade-style shooting sequences where you run 
 around desperately blasting anything that moves. About another 25% is spent fist fighting gangs 
 of enemies. The rest is spent playing minigames or doing something else. Whatever you are doing, 
 the action never lets up, and it never gets boring. 
  
  The gun battles in the game are usually pretty hard. There are a dozen enemies on the screen shooting 
 at you with AK-47s, uzis, or shotguns. Meanwhile, you run around the room, finding cover, shooting 
 back, or occasionally taking a hostage and using him as cover. You can also disarm enemies at close 
 range, or even sick your dog, Shadow, on nearby enemies. Your doggy is one of the most powerful 
 weapons in the game. 
  
  The controls are awkward only at first, but once you get used to them, they are pretty good. You 
 dont actually use the mouse to aim in this game. You just right-click the mouse to target a guy, 
 shoot him, and then right-click again immediately to shoot the next guy. You can circle-strafe 
 around a guy with your eyes closed. The only problem that I ever had with the controls was the 
 auto-targeting, which sometimes doesnt auto-target the enemy who is closest to you. This is aggravating, 
 since sometimes a guy will be right next to you blowing you to bits with a shotgun and the auto-targeting 
 will shoot at a guy across the room. The game also has bullet-time, but it seems like a poorly 
 done afterthought here. Its not very useful, since you can only use it to dive and shoot forward. 
 You cant shot dodge to the left and shoot a guy in front of you like you can in Max Payne. This 
 exposes you, and makes it more dangerous than just shooting normally. I stopped using bullet time 
 about halfway through the game and just relied on taking hostages and using my puppy Shadow.
  
  The games story isnt great, but at least its good enough to keep you interested in the game. 
 It doesnt matter a whole lot in the end though, because basically all you are doing is gunning 
 down wave after wave of enemies, or punching them out. The graphics in the game look like something 
 out of the year 2000. Characters and objects look blocky and ugly. Plus, characters dont even 
 move their lips when they talk. Either that, or they move them at random without any lip synching 
 whatsoever. The cut scenes look pretty stupid because of this. The voice-acting isnt spectacular, 
 but at least the main character (Jack) has some good one-liners. Dead to Rights isnt supposed 
 to be a great drama though. Its supposed to be like a Hong Kong-style action film, and its pretty 
 good at that.
  
  This game gets lots of extra points for having so much variety. There are a ton of mini-games and 
 different sequences. There is a boxing speedbag minigames, lockpicking minigames, and a few sequences 
 where you get to play as Shadow, the dog. There is also an exciting chase seen where you try and 
 gun down a convoy of cars from a helicopter, and many others. They seem a little silly sometimes, 
 but thats okay, because this isnt a realistic or very serious game. 
  
  As far as length goes, this is your standard action game  about 10-12 hours. The production values 
 for the game are what I see as the games biggest drawback. I got a lot of enjoyment out of Dead 
 to Rights, and I recommend it for PC gamers who are looking for something different to add to 
 their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zen_chico2
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 18, 2004 4:14 pm PT
Review:  My score for this game came out to be 6.8. In words, it translates to average yet enjoyable. It 
 is never boring to the point of being tedious. But at the end of the day, you can't help but wishing 
 for more, or simply better.
  
  I'll say this, though. Dead to Rights has so much potential it's scary. There are "disarm" moves, 
 where when used, the game skips to an unbelievably cool cutscene showing Jack disarming the opponent 
 in the most vicious ways imaginable. The entire play mechanic is odd and definitely needs more 
 refinement. However, it is just so damn fun that you'll find yourself going back at it again and 
 again even though you'll barely ever need to use it.
  Human shields are indispensable, though. And they are another mechanic that truly shines.
  
 
  Although these 2 ideas are conceptually brilliant, the rest of Dead to Rights is so flawed that 
 the game never quite reaches that "wow" factor that pushes it to that above average status.
  
  The graphics aren't impressive, although the character modeling is what the player will be 
 focusing on. Even then, close ups of some characters are a joke. On a positive note, the moves 
 on the characters, whether on Jack Slate or his ennemies, are satisfying enough to make you want 
 to repeat them. Disarm moves, death animations, human shields, etc... All great.
  
  The sound effects are absolutely great. Gunshots, bullets wizzing by, hitting crates, walls, etc... Good 
 stuff. Music does the job, no more, no less. Voice acting? Let's just say I hated a character's 
 acting so much that I was seriously *extremely* glad he/she got killed. Gamespot's review said 
 it best, it's hit or miss. However, when it hits, it's just fine. When it misses, it misses hard.
 
  
  
  Bullet-time is pretty much a joke. It can have its moments, but there is no 360 degrees rotation, 
 so if you dive in the wrong angle, try again. In crucial moments, this mistake is deadly. Also, 
 opponents fire at the same rate as you do. So if you dive in front of 3 ennemies with rifles, by 
 the time you're done getting rid of the first one, the other 2 have already slaughtered you twice.
 
  
  The mini-games are not frustrating, thank God. They can even be fun. The hand-to-hand combat is 
 fun too, and boss battles are unique and entertaining (if you use your brain and figure out how 
 to defeat them on time) .
  
  The level design can sometimes make it almost annoying to know what to do or where to go, since 
 there is no jumping option. 
  
  But then again, these are all minor quibbles anyway, I could spend all day finding some for any 
 game. In any case, all in all, it's a good game. And contrary to popular belief, this game *is* 
 very similar to Max Payne, if not in gameplay mechanics, then definitely very much in style and 
 story. And it's no wonder which is the best game of these two.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
