-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dead Space
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deadspace/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Deeply engrossing story.
 Breathtaking visuals and nerve-wracking audio.
 Strategic dismemberment adds an entirely new, satisfying dimension to combat.
 Complete lack of a traditional heads-up display immerses you into the experience.
 Truly terrifying gameplay keeps you on the edge of your seat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive mission objectives.
 Close-quarters combat is troublesome.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 31, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.7, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 3,347 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     Oct 20, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An incredibly atmospheric and disturbingly gruesome deep-space adventure that will haunt your dreams 
 and leave you begging for more. 

  The survival horror genre is rife with games in which you are isolated in a hostile environment 
 full of monsters, and Dead Space is no exception. But from the moment you're thrown into the middle 
 of the fray in the heart-pounding introduction until the bone-chilling conclusion, it's clear that 
 this is something quite unique. With its disturbingly twisted visuals, its deeply engrossing story, 
 and innovative strategic dismemberment combat system, Dead Space is a best-in-its-class game that 
 surpasses other entries in its venerable genre in nearly every way and will be the standard by 
 which they are judged for years to come.  

  When the Concordance Extraction Corporation loses radio contact with its Planet Cracker-class mining 
 ship, the USG Ishimura, engineer Isaac Clarke is dispatched on a routine mission to repair its 
 communications array. However, Clarke is also on a mission of his own, having recently received 
 a cryptic message from Nicole Brennan, a medical officer serving aboard the Ishimura. While on 
 board he intends to reunite with her and learn the meaning behind her strange broadcast. Unfortunately, 
 the moment you set foot on the derelict ship, it's obvious that something terrible has happened. 

           Meet the Necromorph. This is one lady you don't want to dance with.      

  As Isaac, you are separated almost immediately from the rest of your team by the former crew of 
 the Ishimura, which has been transformed into horrifying monsters called Necromorphs. Forced to 
 fight for his survival, Isaac makes do with the tools at hand to defend himself with, which are 
 for the most part repurposed mining instruments like plasma welding guns or buzz saws. These improvised 
 weapons are put to graphic, gruesome work as bodily damage and even severe head trauma isn't enough 
 to kill a Necromorph -- only by severing their limbs can you put them down for good. This nuance, 
 referred to as strategic dismemberment, vastly alters the way combat is approached in Dead Space 
 from the typical "aim for the head"-style gameplay seen in most action games and zombie apocalypse 
 scenarios.  

  Every class of Necromorph requires a different strategy to handle, and knowing how to combat multiple 
 types simultaneously is an essential skill if you want to survive for long. Though dismemberment 
 is ultimately the key to victory, failing to finish off a monster properly will only send it into 
 a berserker rage and force it to adapt to its new, partially appendageless situation so that it 
 can continue trying to eat your face. Even more alarming than their ghastly appearances and uncouth 
 manners is the fact that they are quite intelligent. Necromorphs attack in packs using loose team 
 tactics, and are capable of traversing the ship's extensive ventilation system to sneak around 
 for outflanking or ambushing. They feign death among the corpses of their peers to rise up and 
 attack when you least expect it, and they often come in waves, leaving you wondering if it's truly 
 over or if they're simply toying with you.  

  The most basic Necromorphs are humanoid monsters that attack in a frenzy. Horribly mutated undead 
 babies also make an appearance, and they run along the walls and ceilings sprouting tentacles from 
 their backs capable of throwing organic projectiles. Others still are heavily armored but vulnerable 
 from behind, are bloated with dozens of spiderlike parasites that are released upon their host's 
 death, or shriek madly as they carry explosive pods toward you in a suicidal charge. In one fully 
 interactive gameplay sequence that comprises some of the more amazing moments to be experienced 
 in Dead Space, you're assaulted by the gigantic tentacle of an even larger, unseen beast that drags 
 you to a gruesome and bloody death as you struggle to shoot yourself free.  

  Finally, at several key points in the story, Isaac stumbles upon some of the most incredible and 
 truly terrifying boss monsters to be seen in the survival horror genre. Though revealing the circumstances 
 around which you confront these nightmares would do much to spoil them, it is safe to say that 
 these epic encounters are easily some of the most remarkable seen in years.  

           Having all the traditional HUD elements built into your suit makes grisly scenes like 
 this that much more immersive.      

  One of the first things to notice in Dead Space is that it features a complete lack of a traditional 
 heads-up display; instead, pertinent information is integrated directly into Isaac's RIG uniform. 
 To see his current health you need only glance at the iridescent meter built into the RIG's spine 
 (or pay attention to his physical cues) , and to see how much ammo is left in your current weapon, 
 simply check the display readout visible whenever you raise it into the ready position. If you 
 ever find yourself wondering where you need to be next, you need only press a key for Isaac's RIG 
 to temporarily trace a beam of light on the ground toward your next objective. When called up, 
 menus are holographically projected ahead of you in real time, producing a sense of urgency as 
 you remain vulnerable to attack. These simple yet ingenious systems ensure that you remain firmly 
 within the realm of the gameworld at all times, preserving the horror experience.  

  Your ultimate goal aboard the Ishimura is to escape from it, hopefully along with Nicole; but to 
 get to that point you must first accomplish a series of dependent tasks. Guided remotely or in 
 person by the remaining survivors of your doomed repair operation, your missions take you from 
 deck to deck in a logical chain of events. For example, early on you discover that the ship's orbit 
 is decaying because its engines are offline, so you must travel to engineering to refuel and restore 
 them. Once they're back online and the Ishimura begins to correct its course, you realize that 
 you're about to pass through an asteroid belt and that the automated defense systems are down, 
 so it's off to do something about that.     

  Each deck is a self-contained environment in which you run around putting out fires while moving 
 closer to escape, and while your team will remain in frequent contact, you are almost always alone -- and 
 most of the few survivors you do encounter have been driven insane by their ordeals. This sense 
 of isolation in such a hostile environment, coupled with bloody visuals and a brilliant sound design, 
 has you constantly questioning your own sanity and wondering when the next attack is coming. Further 
 enhancing this effect are the bone-chilling logs you find left behind by the crew in which their 
 final thoughts and moments are recorded. Though audio logs are nothing new to this type of game 
 and are in fact often used to flesh out the backstory, these are exceptionally well done, and are 
 accompanied by full video logs and text reports, which all together make for a much more compelling 
 narrative.  

  As you explore the many decks of the Ishimura, you will come across two utilities that will prove 
 to be of endless use: stasis and kinesis. Stasis, a finite resource that must be replenished at 
 recharge stations across the ship or with booster packs, allows you to temporarily slow down fast-moving 
 objects, while kinesis gives you the ability to lift, move, and throw objects in the environment 
 at no cost. Each can be used independently or in tandem to solve puzzles or navigate the ship, 
 and each has useful battle applications as well. For instance, stasis can be used to virtually 
 stop incredibly fast-moving Necromorphs and give you the time to tear them limb from limb, and 
 kinesis can be used to throw explosive canisters or even severed extremities to conserve ammunition. 

           Space babies like to hug your face and stab your back. They are not very lovable.     

  During your travels, you will find a number of areas that do not have functional gravity. In these 
 situations, Isaac's magnetic boots will keep him grounded and allow you to perform zero-gravity 
 jumps and attach to nearly any surface. Suddenly having a full 360-degree range of movement is 
 a mind-bending experience, but once you get the hang of it, few experiences are as enjoyable as 
 leaping from the floor to the ceiling to dodge an attack and then finishing off your assailant, 
 sending its body, blood, and limbs floating off in different directions realistically. Many of 
 these zero-g situations are also performed within a vacuum, making oxygen, in addition to your 
 health, a scarce commodity.  

  Between searching for Nicole, trying to escape, and fighting for your survival, you've got your 
 hands pretty full, but this is not to say that there aren't other things for Isaac to do. As the 
 monsters you are killing were once people, they will occasionally drop credits that can be spent 
 in the automated stores you will come across. RIG upgrades, health items, new weapons, and additional 
 ammunition can all be purchased, and if you happen to find a new item schematic and take it to 
 a store, you'll be able to buy that as well. Inventory management is a key element as you can only 
 carry around so many medical kits or plasma cartridges. In the event that you find yourself overburdened, 
 you can sell off your unneeded goods or toss them into the safe for pickup later at any other store 
 location, but you may also find yourself constantly low or out of ammo if you simply go into every 
 enemy encounter guns blazing -- sometimes it's better to run and conserve ammo.  

  As an engineer, Isaac can make use of the numerous nanotech workbenches onboard the Ishimura to 
 upgrade his weapons and equipment. Each upgradeable item has a circuit board arranged like a skill 
 tree, and by soldering in power nodes (typically found in fuse boxes or purchased at the store) 
 down a set of branching paths, functionality can be greatly increased. For example, weapons can 
 have their damage and clip size upped, and Isaac can even increase his RIG's maximum health or 
 the duration of his stasis ability. Fuses can also be used to override certain optional door locks, 
 though, so if you want to be ready for potential secret-item caches, make sure you don't use up 
 all of your power nodes.  

           Strategic dismemberment works both ways. Don't let this happen to you.      

  From 
 engineering to hydroponics and beyond, Dead Space never fails to impress with its visuals. Whether 
 you're watching the torrential rainfall of asteroids across the hull of the Ishimura from the bridge 
 atrium or witnessing the way a corpse spins serenely in a zero-g vacuum, the haunting yet beautiful 
 graphics of Dead Space have a way of sticking in your mind long after you've quit playing. Semi-interactive 
 cutscenes such as the one in which your team's rescue ship explodes within the Ishimura docking 
 bay simply must be seen firsthand, and the tremendous lighting and environmental effects lay the 
 groundwork for an intense horror adventure. VSync is enabled by default, which prevents some really 
 nasty visual tearing but adds about a half a second of lag into mouse movements. This can be compensated 
 for by adjusting mouse sensitivity, so make sure you tweak your control settings for an optimal 
 experience.  

  What really rounds out the entire experience, however, is the incredible sound design. Throughout 
 the halls of the Ishimura, you are stalked mercilessly by the Necromorphs, and while you can't 
 always see them, you are constantly surrounded by the menacing noises they produce or the eerie 
 pitter-patter they make as they crawl through the ventilation shafts. You'll occasionally hear 
 the distant screams of Necromorph victims or the creepy singing of a mentally unbalanced survivor, 
 and environmental effects such as those generated by the sudden release of a burst of steam will 
 keep you on the edge of your seat. Perhaps the most impressive use of audio in Dead Space takes 
 place in a vacuum: any sounds that originate outside of Isaac's helmet are muffled and barely audible, 
 while those from the inside, including his breathing and grunts of pain, are amplified.  

  Dead Space is a remarkable game from a well-tread genre that manages to stand out from its competitors 
 in almost every way, from visual presentation to engaging story, innovative combat mechanics to 
 fright factor. Whether you're looking for a terrifying horror experience or a deeply story-driven 
 adventure that will keep you engaged for 15-20 hours, Dead Space is a fantastic game that you should 
 not pass on.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (227 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  Not since system shock 2 have I been given the willies! This game was well done in the fashion 
 of a system shock 2 example of easy movement combined with balance of weapons, ammunition, storage 
 space for the things you need to carry and suit options. the game has 12 chapters which unfold 
 a great plot.
  
  Of course the graphics were better than SS2 and the sound was excellent with all the scary bumps 
 in the night sounds. I was impressed with the care taken to make the ship sounds so realistic at 
 least the way I imagine it. The visual effects were designed in a way of realism some lights flashing, 
 emergency lights on, with some halls, rooms and expansive areas dark or dimly lit, flashlight with 
 limited vision it was greatly done. The walls covered with pre-disaster posters overwritten with 
 blood warnings and strange languages. 
  
  My hat is off to the people that created it all. 
  
  I felt like I was in a movie rather than 
 in a game. As I played it it became more of me being some poor sap drawn into a place and situation 
 I would rather not be in. Some of the game was predictable just because of how the story was unfolding 
 but as in a movie you could not change it you had to just follow the script. I found myself discussing 
 the plot unfolding to my wife like I do sometimes when we watch a movie.
  
  Well that is just it! A rat in a maze finding cheese! I liked this game and I find replay value 
 and I imagine many people will. But I am left again with wondering how long people will continue 
 to play games that do not give more option to pursue freedom of multiple outcomes depending on 
 how a person makes RPG toons game choices. For example why can't I pursue blowing up this ship 
 I am on once I find my toon being manipulated by some lying Bugger or buggers. I saw that I was 
 manipulated and running errands for some lying bugger.
  
  Well because it is a script! and this script worked for me again! So I guess I will continue to 
 be a RAT that runs a maze looking for the cheese!
  
  Great script, Well built maze and the best cheese EA!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murissokah
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 14, 2009 6:35 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I played this game on the PC. A as soon as I started the game, I realized I was unable 
 to move the mouse accurately. I got really confused, as the mouse seemed to have a lot of inertia, 
 and there was nothing I could do about it. As soon as I started the game, I was pleased with the 
 graphics, and the overall dark feeling. That very feeling was a little a little impaired by the 
 fact that the PC version has a much clearer lighting. You may think I am being too critic, but 
 lighting play a very big role on horror games, and it's just not as terrifying when you can see 
 all of the room around you and move away from the creepy monsters with ease. 
  Let me emphasize the fact that the controls are disastrous on the PC. I cannot forgive having to 
 scroll the cursor through all items using the directional buttons, when I have a mouse. Also, when 
 aiming, the mouse sensitivity seems to go crazy, as it takes me moving the mouse all the way through 
 the pad (and often repeat the process in a somewhat ridiculous winding motion) in order to turn 
 a little and aim at the critter.
  As for the game play, the atmosphere is very dark , and the critters are very well designed. The 
 monsters will always come at you from unexpected places, and leave you with the feeling that you 
 may actually get owned if you are careless (even though it did not happen too much) . The limb removing 
 mechanics are a nice change of pace and fit well in the game. But then again, that is turned into 
 a nuisance when the controls are so sloppy. The idea of having to shoot the limbs away to actually 
 kill the bad things is nice, but when the mouse has a will of its own, you will be very pissed 
 at the controls again.
  After playing for a while, I was already getting the feeling that Dead Space was a great game for 
 the X360, and the PC version was not given any attention. This turn down also made me a little 
 more critic about what was actually good in the game: the graphics, while nice and fluid, could 
 have used more attention on the PC. It feels the engine was limited by the console's resources, 
 especially the graphics (even though it is terrific for a console game) .
  In the end, Dead Space feels like a great game, only not for the PC. It pisses me greatly to see 
 first person games with gamepad oriented controls. As much as I would like to play Fable 2 on the 
 PC, I appreciate that lionhead did not do something like this. Overall this is a great game that 
 insults me more than it indulges me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jvguima
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a EA games Survival Horror that place you in a completed overrun space craft, the 
 USG Ishimura You play as Isaac Clarke a engineer that goes to the Ishimura to see what is going 
 on there but you get yourself in the middle of a nightmare when you get there ...
  One of the best Survival Horror game , it has a great visual , great sounds , effects , a atmospheric 
 story, amazing graphics a revolutionary dismemberment tactics and more , it relay worth the money 
 and the time check it out and you can also see the movie . 
  For me the only big problem is that is a short game you can beat it in 2 or 3 days with you want.
 
  And also the game dont offer a big amount of weaponry and you also have to conserve your ammo 
 because you just dont know what you are going to face it in the next room or behind the door 
 
  But is awesome in every other thing, EA relay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knoflook
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 9:34 am PT
Review:  Playing this game, at night, with the headphones on, with the 24 inch screen at your face is like 
 having a car battery hooked up to your nipples juicing you every 10 seconds with electrifying horror. 
 
  
  Seriously, this game was scary. I wanted to play it at night, but after an hour i decided to go 
 to sleep. Playing it in the morning was a much better idea. Till I got nightmares and could not 
 sleep. 
  
  The story is quite Cliche. It's about a spaceship which used to have humans aboard and is now filled 
 with monsters. Of course you get stranded on this ship and have to kill all this monster by shooting 
 there limbs of. While killing these monsters you are looking for your loved one, who is somewhere 
 on this ship. Oh well. 
  
  The game play is similar to Resident evil, only it feels heavier because you're wearing this heavy 
 metal suit. You can upgrade your weapons by collecting power nodes. You can buy new weapons by 
 collecting money. And well, shooting is all done in third-person mode. There is no HUD. Health 
 is displayed on the back of your character and the amount of ammo is displayed on your gun. 
  
  But the game is intense. Enemy's that seemed dead rise up again, random monster coming out 
 ventilation shafts, scary background music and good graphics. All that makes a scary atmosphere 
 that stays during the whole game. 
  
  This is a game for people that have steel nerves. A game to be recommended to play. I really liked 
 it. Sadly i did not finish the game. There are to many games to be played and it was getting dark 
 at 5 pm. So i just left it aside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeltacore
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 3:56 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the game advertised on some game site, I thought to myself that it probably just 
 end up in the budget bin in a few weeks. It wasn't until my friend told me he pissed his pants 
 playing it, until I gave it a go.
  
  The game starts in a really conventional way which gave me a lot of doubts. However, when the first 
 monsters striked the game immediately sucked me in. The game play breaks so many standard conventions 
 in areas of weaponery, items, customisation and cinematics. Apart from the short loading times 
 between levels, the game flows very nicely, there is no autosaves which I think really adds to 
 the game as it can slow down the performance, thus reducing the flow on effect.
  
  I just want to specially mention the combat system. The weapons used are very reflective of the 
 main character abilities and profession, there is no weapon of mass destruction which seems to 
 be quite popular. These rudimentary weapons although insufficient for those 'high-tech' gamers, 
 it suits the environment adding to the struggle to stay alive. The melee is also realistic, unlike 
 those fps where the character's movement is rigid and fragmented, there is actually wait time and 
 limitations in the game reflecting the fact that humans cannot perform flawlessly when wearing 
 such heavy gear.
  
  The twists in the plot at times can be predicted due to our great exposure to a range of horror 
 games. However, EA still manages to put in suprises that hold the storyline together, these turning 
 points act collectively to immerse to player into a dark, desolated and gruesome environment that 
 is dead space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STR33TFiR3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 10:00 am PT
Review:  Well I must admit that the starting did not seem great. Just another alien shooter and save the 
 world kind of thing, I thought.
  
  But I was wrong, horribly wrong.
  
  The game picked up pace, sucked me into the story that unfolded gradually and yeah, scared the 
 s*** out of me sometimes. The game is really really frightening at times, much more than FEAR 2 
 and sometimes surpassing the original FEAR! How does it manage that? Simply by having some totally 
 unpredictable enemies who outwits you. Even if most of the encounters are scripted, you will likely 
 remember the first time, when you jumped out of your chair!
  
  Visually the game is not Crysis-esque but it looks great because of greatly detailed environment 
 and the player's character. Blood and gore flows in abundance, and some scenes are really gruesome. 
 Some effects (Entering and exiting vacuum, for example) really makes you feel you are there.
  
  The games ambience is superb, to say the least. The game really makes you feel the loneliness, 
 and the lack of HUD makes the experience even more immersive.
  
  The game also has some RPG strings attached to it, as you can spend Credit and Power Nodes acquired 
 through out the game to improve your weapons, suit etc. A bit of balancing the stats is required 
 if you want to get that edge. However, the game is a shooter and it will be up to your shooting 
 skills, not strategic planning.
  
  And yes, it is probably first for any game to have Zero-G environment (Not everywhere, thank God!) . 
 You will probably have some problems maintaining orientation at first, but when you adjust to it, 
 it will open up a lot of possibilities. You will have to think on your feet, although they might 
 not be on the ground!
  
  Only thing I did not like was the third person view. Well, It is not bad at all, but sometimes 
 I really wished I could switch to a first person view. However, that is really a minor fault and 
 you could easily look over it.
  
  So the bottomline? Play this game, now! You will not forget it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnelZukic
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  Not long ago, EA was in the eyes of public an inert and unconscionable giant company which survives 
 by releasing constant and just minimum revised sequels of sport games and not so interesting but 
 graphical very strong games based on Hollywood blockbusters. But now everything changes. The giant 
 from Redwood recently started to go back to his roots, because in the 80's this company started 
 to make himself a name and image on ORIGINAL ideas and games which were a fuse between advance 
 technology and art, on what points and their name. Dead Space is just one of the new games, result 
 of changes in strategy which could make EA the publisher with most IP on original ideas. 
  
  ----------------------- -------------------- Dead Space ------------------------ ------------------------
 
  A damaged spaceship in which you can hear noises which can't be from humans... fear is in the space
 
  
  Based on many successful horror and SF games, Dead Space can be described in a short sentence: 
 exploring of a space ship which is now home to aliens. And I told everything. You already know 
 that you can expect dark corridors, enemies which are coming out from vents and the remains of 
 the crew on the walls of the space ship which is traditional in such situations. What is harder 
 to explain is the amazing atmosphere which is so dark and so morbid that it is on the on the border 
 of tolerance.
  
  "The adventure elements are in the form of travelling from position to position to activate a lever"
 
  
  The main character is one of the rare survivors on the space ship which crew was counting more 
 then 1000 people, which are now scattered all around. The aliens are also very disgusting, no matter 
 if there are alive or dead. It's enough to say that the designers, just to make the corpses more 
 realistic, were observing photos from victims of traffic accidents. Nastier then that is impossible.
 
  
  But the game can't be called bad in any way. The quality of the graphic is on the top, although 
 gray walls and the darkness aren't a good example to proof that. In fact, the best seems something 
 that otherwise we rarely comment: the map, list of items and the extra screens. They, in fact, 
 appear in the form of holograms in the air in front of the main character, so that we don't have 
 the sense of interruption the action in any moment - and that enemies can attack you while looking 
 for a package of energy or the path to the next key locations. But there is a new way to find the 
 path to your next key location and it's by activating a laser which will guide you to the location 
 - another nice idea. That laser will guide you directly to your next key location so there is no 
 fear to get lost in the labyrinth of corridors. In general, Dead Space a game is very simple, that 
 is, the difficulty comes from the struggle with opponents using a limited amount of ammunition, 
 and not from finding a path or solving the puzzles. I got bothered by the "adventure" elements 
 of the game which are brought to roaming the spaceship from location to location to pull a lever 
 here or to activate a system there. I understand that an action game should also have a story that 
 takes us from location to location - but somehow it seems to me that this story could be more interesting 
 although it's already excellent. On the other hand, the relationship between the main character 
 and his girlfriend who was a member of the unfortunate spaceship called "USG Ishimura" is developing 
 very interesting through the game and exactly this element seems interesting and important. 
  
  ________________________ ________________________ _______________ 
  ------------------------ 
 ----------- About the causes of fear ------------------------ ------------- 
  
  Dead Space was initially announced as a "survival horror" and many are putting it in that genre. 
 We could talk a lot about genres and I don't intend to discuss much. But I have few words about 
 the approach to capturing the feeling of fear in the game because it may affect your decision about 
 purchasing. It is, in fact, a game where you constantly have to be ready for attacks in front of 
 you (or behind you) where the enemy would jump and attack you, and the enemies are really disgusting, 
 which increases their intimidation factor. After this happens about thirty times, this form of 
 scaring ceases to be a problem, although the tension you feel while waiting to be attacked by an 
 enemy - and you know you will be - never stops. The game also offers sequences in which you have 
 a limited amount of air, which means that the location should be crossed in limited amount of time. 
 It is not very scary, but certainly creates the feeling of tension. Finally, we must not forget 
 that all the time you move through an environment which is full of blood and scattered body and 
 extremities, and in the struggle with the opponents and yourself you can separate them in component 
 parts of them with spraying red liquid flying in all directions. Neither that will be scary after 
 the first hour of playing, but the decision to play this game immediately before or after lunch 
 will not be easy. Do not forget that it is all accompanied by sound base which especially comes 
 into play if you have surround sound support, but even without, it has a significant share in creating 
 a sense of discomfort and tension. In short, is Dead Space really a horror or an action game with 
 a lot of tension? It is hard to say. However, more important than how it is called is if your stomach 
 can handle it.
  ________________________ ________________________ _______________
  
  However, the key element of the game is to fight with unearthly adversaries, and to make it more 
 interesting, with the use of unusual weapons. Since the only member of the rescue team arrives 
 unarmed on an attacked spaceship (ok, we can let that to pass) , the main character by the name 
 of Issac Clarke must collect devices that can inflict harm, including the laser cutter, a kind 
 of chainsaw and similar tools.
  
  "The main character was named after famous SF writers Isaac Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke"
  
 
  There are "traditional" weapons, but the dynamics of the fight is different than most similar 
 sequences, because the enemies in this game are easiest to kill by shooting them in the limbs - 
 while, for example, shooting them in the head or body may infuriate or even enable them to transform 
 into stronger forms. Relatively quickly you will understand that the opponent does not have a lot 
 of species and for each type you will find the appropriate tactic, that is, places on their bodies, 
 which should be shot. The problem is that enemies always appear suddenly and often from behind. 
 This goes to the level that you will soon develop a feel from which side and when an opponent will 
 run into you. However, the fear that arises from the effect of surprise is quite strong, and even 
 when there isn't any opponents, feel that you will be attacked by something disgusting from behind 
 any moment will constantly keep you on the alert. By system upgrades of weapons and suits you will 
 become more powerful and resistant, and the fear for your live will fall down - but until the very 
 end they will be somewhere behind the corner.
  
  I have some more complaints - for example, the progression system which looks like it is implanted 
 in the game just because someone desired to have RPG elements (which jerk goes in action without 
 arms, with a garment that can be upgraded - but without the upgrades, what is the trick that the 
 electronic Shop can offer an item only when the user is on the floor find a scheme for their creation, 
 and why the alleged "engineer" doesn't have two crucial skills needed to perform the majority of 
 repairs - which are obviously galactic standard) . Despite quality graphics, interactivity with 
 the environment is minimal and limited to the details in which it is clearly stated, and although 
 everything looks really nice, the main character in situations when shadow falls on him or the 
 camera comes near to him suffers from abominable attacks "squarness" i. e. low-resolution textures. 
 All of these objections, however, can not negate the fact that while playing Dead Space will fill 
 you with tension as rare as any game recently, you palms will sweat and you eyes will stop to blink 
 in an attempt to brake through the darkness and to detected disgusting enemies in time and then, 
 with an ineffable thick, destroy them in component parts. Intensity of action and atmosphere are 
 very strong elements of the game, which therefore deserves the praise and high score. But be ready 
 to expect - aside the average story which is much more interesting if you explore all the extra 
 materials (the movie-Dead Space Downfall, comics and a little game on Dead Space official web site 
 called No know Survivors) which are available outside the game - Dead Space hardly provides anything 
 else.
  _______________________
  Anel Zukic
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  From the moment you start playing the first chapter of this twelve chapter sci-fi horror/survival 
 shooter, you will probably notice that Dead Space doesn't really bring anything radically new or 
 different to this well-explored genre. Instead, what you will notice is that Dead Space does all 
 of the things one would expect from this game variety, absolutely superbly and simply better than 
 most other similar games  at least most of the ones I have had the pleasure of playing in quite 
 some time.
  
  As far as the overall backdrop to the gameplay aspect of Dead Space is concerned, the nightmarish 
 plot begins right from the outset, as your in-game character is sitting onboard a repair shuttle 
 approaching a massive space vessel named the USG Ishimura, watching the last holographic video 
 footage he received from his beloved Nicole, supposedly from somewhere on the Ishimura. The video 
 footage is incomplete and abruptly ends before Nicole manages to say something that appears to 
 be rather meaningful in the bigger scheme of things, and hence the constant, lingering tension 
 so brilliantly executed throughout Dead Space begins.
  
  The Ishimura is a so-called "planet cracker" designed for massive planetary mining operations by 
 literally cracking entire planets and in doing so, allowing the human species to extract all the 
 valuable ores an minerals deposited on these previously untainted planets, which I guess is pretty 
 much par for the course as far as our own species is concerned.
  
  In addition, the Ishimura is really an orbiting factory city in constant contact with a colony 
 of workers on the surface of the unfortunate planet itself, where mining and shipping operations 
 are coordinated with the orbiting vessel. The Ishimura should have more than a thousand living 
 souls on board, but nobody has been able to establish any form of communication with the latter 
 or the planet-side colony for that matter, warranting a repair mission consisting of a crew of 
 five, of which your character is one of the technical specialists that will attempt to bring the 
 ship's communication systems back online.
  
  From the moment your repair shuttle attempts to dock with the Ishimura and you manage to get off 
 the crippled shuttle alive, things start going pear-shaped at a rate of knots. In fact, it probably 
 takes all of two minutes to find out that your team is pretty much alone on this forsaken, orbiting 
 hunk of metal  alone in the sense of living human presence that is!
  
  Within the next few minutes or so, you are forcibly isolated from the rest of your team, as you 
 first lay eyes on the horrific sight of a so-called "Necromorph" literally dropping out of nowhere 
 and devouring two of your five-man team while you are standing helpless behind a thick glass window. 
 From that point forward there's simply no rest for your character, nor you the player, of course, 
 as he struggles to deal with one crisis after the other while constantly in danger of being dismembered 
 by yet another variation of these infernal Necromorphs from hell.
  
  The remainder of the game is essentially spent achieving five primary goals: 1  staying alive, 
 2  keeping what has become a technically derelict Ishimura in orbit around the rocky planet below, 
 3  finding out what the heck happened, and is happening here, 4  finding your beloved Nicole 
 and 5  ultimately finding a way off the Ishimura and out of this nightmare that will probably 
 last between 15 and 20 hours depending on your style of play.
  
  At the risk of providing any accidental spoilers here, I will not divulge any further insights 
 into the storyline; suffice to say that even the storyline is probably nothing new for most gamers 
 who have played similar games before. The old "I'm alone on a space ship bristling with weird, 
 alien monsters while everything around me is going to pot and I don't know why this is happening" 
 plot, is definitely nothing new. What is new is the sheer brilliance in the way that the designers/developers 
 of Dead Space bring this well-trodden story path to life in a way that just stands out from the 
 rest of the crowd.
  
  Technically speaking, Dead Space can be classified as an "over the shoulder" shooter, since the 
 game is played in constant, full view of your in-game character instead of the classic first-person 
 camera perspective. While this in itself doesn't really mean much at first glance, it soon became 
 clear to me how the default camera angles add to the tension during gameplay as your mind is constantly 
 occupied with what is behind you  what was that sound  did something move over there in the corner 
 of my eye? Somehow, the fact that you are almost being forced to see your character's entire body 
 from behind most of the time (the camera can be panned around the full 360 degrees) makes you feel 
 more vulnerable and adds to the claustrophobic ambiance of the soulless surroundings on the slowly 
 dying Ishimura.
  
  Bearing in mind that your in-game character is supposed to be a technical specialist and not your 
 average, Rambo meets Chuck Norris type, puts another slight twist in the dynamics of gameplay that 
 differ from most other games in this genre  very similar to your character in Half Life for example. 
 Unlike your regular super hero, this one didn't arrive on the scene with an arsenal of the biggest 
 and best weapons that money could buy in the year 2500, nor is he built like a Greek god with a 
 fake suntan. No, this guy arrived with a good, sound mind (which he will hopefully keep that way) 
 and whatever he can find around him to solve the problem at hand.
  
  Since the Ishimura is really one big orbiting factory as mentioned before, it stands to reason 
 that there will be some pretty nifty tools on board, if not your handy mini-nukes, etc. found in 
 so many other sci-fi storylines/games. These tools soon become weapons and range from simple, yet 
 obviously rather technically advanced, laser/plasma cutters, saw blades with extended reach, flamers 
 and other fairly unique tools/weaponry compared to other games in this genre.
  
  Fortunately your primary, non-human enemies on board the Ishimura are also somewhat unique, in 
 the sense that there's no killing these guys with that single, precise shot between the eyes for 
 all you shoot-from-the-hip shooter lovers - no sniper skills needed here. No, once you get acquainted 
 with some of the variations on the "Necromorph" theme, you will soon realize that the only way 
 to relieve them out of their misery is to dismember them  literally. There's no point in just 
 getting rid of the head  they will still come at you with a vengeance, and you have to at least 
 get two or more of the arms or tentacles or whatever you want to call them, for most of these things 
 to stop. Be warned though, even this won't work on some of them, who simply re-spawn right in front 
 of your eyes after a few seconds and then really get mad! In this way, Dead Space forces you to 
 think on your feet so to speak, and use all the tools and surroundings to your advantage in your 
 quest to merely stay alive, never mind the other issues you have to deal with.
  
  There are a few other invaluable tricks available to you, such as stasis and kinesis, but I will 
 leave that up to you to find out for yourself without spoiling any of the fun here.
  
  Another interesting addition to your regular run-of-the-mill gameplay becomes apparent when you 
 first enter one of the many, so-called zero gravity zones on the Ishimura as you try to stay alive 
 and save the vessel from its degrading orbit at the same time. These zero gravity zones are quite 
 a fresh strain on the mind the first time you have to do battle with your friendly Necromorphs 
 and other hazards in multiple dimensions where spatial awareness becomes a challenge in itself. 
 It takes a while to get used to jumping from surface to surface in an environment that ends up 
 having no up or down, left or right, nor front and rear for that matter. Once you get used to this 
 though, it almost becomes a powerful ally in your quest to ether run and hide, or attack the enemy 
 from angles even they didn't expect.
  
  During the entire game, you are constantly being given objectives by one of your team members that 
 survived the original Necromorph encounter when you first boarded the Ishimura and managed to make 
 her way to some computer control center.
  
  These objectives are conveyed to you by means of audio and video communications facilities built 
 into your suit, or rig, as it is referred to in Dead Space and become the process by which the 
 plot is driven forward throughout the game.
  
  In that sense, the storyline in Dead Space is pretty much linear with little or no alternative 
 solutions to any specific objective or ultimate outcome of the storyline. The only optional activities 
 revolve mainly around the exploration of some areas on the Ishimura in an attempt to find more 
 ammo, health packs, etc. that are sometimes more abundant in areas outside the immediate scope 
 of your current objective and come at a cost however, since you will usually find quite a lot of 
 enemy opposition to your presence in areas where there is a relative abundance of material needed 
 to survive. These optional activities are also very closely linked to every given objective however, 
 since there is never really enough ammo or other tools available  the designers made sure that 
 everything you do, needs to be achieved in an optimal manner just to get on to the next objective, 
 making the tension even greater as the plot unfolds.
  
  Objectives get progressively harder to achieve and the game's Xbox 360 roots soon become apparent, 
 since you can only save your progress at specific locations on the Ishimura, termed save stations 
  i. e., save slots on the Xbox 360. There's no quick save option along the way and if you die, 
 you literally go back to your last save station  talk about penalties for getting it wrong! This 
 will certainly appeal to all those players who often complain about some games just being too easy 
 with very little or no penalties for dying or getting it wrong in the first place. It may however, 
 also become frustrating for players new to the genre or those that are not that adept with the 
 controls yet, since you will almost certainly die not once, but a couple of times before getting 
 some of the more difficult objectives under the belt.
  
  Given this backdrop, Dead Space therefore has very little or no built-in RPG elements, since there 
 is also no notion of character/skills development such as in Mass Effect for example, nor does 
 it really matter how you approach any given problem, since the outcome will be the same regardless 
  assuming you get it right of course. The absence of alternate outcomes, character development, 
 etc. is not necessarily a bad thing as far as Dead Space is concerned however, since the story 
 is the story after all and this recipe has been successfully used in many other great game titles.
 
  
  As would be expected, you can however, upgrade your rig (suit) and tools/weapons by means of advanced 
 nanotechnologies at workbenches scattered all over the Ishimura. To perform these upgrades, you 
 need little gadgets called power nodes which are also found in pre-determined locations along the 
 main storyline of course and are never available in abundance, which constantly keeps the gameplay 
 balance in check, as your enemies and situations become more challenging.
  
  Your rig also plays more than just the usual role of protection in the sense that the designers 
 of Dead Space incorporated all visuals associated with your vital stats, i. e. health, stasis and 
 air reserves as well as remaining ammo in your weapons directly onto the rig itself, with remaining 
 ammo indicators on each individual weapon or tool.
  
  This approach works very effectively and negates the need for all of the usual display panels/HUD 
 and other visual clutter elements found in most other similar games.
  
  Getting a more in-depth situation report via your inventory, log, online map and objectives history 
 also has a somewhat unusual sting in the tail. All of this information is presented via a holographic 
 projector on your rig in real time, with emphasis on real time. Unlike most similar games, in Dead 
 Space there's no rest as I mentioned before, not even when you open your inventory to have a look 
 at what's at your disposal at any point in time  nothing is ever paused, so be warned  Necromorphs 
 don't care if you're busy reading your quest log or listening to the latest little audio message 
 clue you just happened to pick up a few moments ago. It's pretty hard trying to switch active weapons 
 via your inventory while in the heat of battle with three or more hideous, rotting corpses trying 
 their best to impale your character, so these things are therefore best done in preparation before 
 you enter the next hydraulic sliding door or elevator on your objective path!
  
  While some reviewers, at the time of this writing, have complained about the three dimensional 
 in-game map facilities, I actually found the three-dimensional notation very useful and definitely 
 not confusing as some players have indicated. In fact, I found it almost impossible to plan ahead 
 if I didn't know if I needed to go up or down a level on the countless decks of the Ishimura. If 
 you get lost and have to choose between several available entry/exit points to the next objective, 
 you can always use the built-in positioning facilities on your rig to literally draw a holographic 
 line on the ground, which will always be the shortest route to your next objective given your current 
 position. It's therefore almost impossible to get lost anyway.
  
  As far as overall gameplay is concerned, there's virtually only one thing I would consider somewhat 
 of a flaw in Dead Space, and that is the rather drastic mouse movement lag on the PC version, which 
 really causes a lot of control issues when trying to survive close encounters while surrounded 
 by several of these hellish beasts. By the time you get the right visual camera angle in place, 
 your in-game character is more than likely going to be in three or more pieces, i. e., dead.
  
  The good news is that most of this can be resolved by simply turning off Vertical Sync under 
 the available display options and I must admit I didn't perceive any drastic visual tearing or 
 synchronization issues afterwards anyway. This may of course vary, depending on what type of graphics 
 card, memory, etc. you have installed in the PC you are playing on.
  
  When all is said and done however, Dead Space is an absolutely brilliant rendition of a somewhat 
 over-used computer game theme. What makes it stand out is that it sticks to what has been proven 
 in some areas over the years, while really daring to be different in some key aspects of the way 
 in which the plot and setting are presented to the player.
  
  When putting all of these elements together in a single, well executed and polished package, it's 
 hard not to give Dead Space 9/10 in this department.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Some games look bad but play well, while some games just look great but have poor gameplay characteristics. 
 Then again, some games look just right and play well. Dead Space is definitely one of the latter.
 
  
  There is no exceedingly distinct artistic style, or any over-the-top blooming, lighting or shading 
 effects. Instead, the artwork in Dead Space blends almost seamlessly into what the storyline conveys 
  the realistic rendition of a forlorn, desolate space vessel that was once home to a large group 
 of human beings, bristling with life and activity, that is now really a heap of metal orbiting 
 a dead planet, with an ever-increasing presence of a rather horrific alien species.
  
  The lighting in Dead Space is superb. It's never too dark and never too bright. Subtle lighting 
 effects such as short-circuiting electrical lines, flickering neon lamps and shadows across walls, 
 really add to the storyline tension as you go from entry to exit point across the Ishimura. Sometimes 
 you may experience a sudden power outage while standing in the middle of a rather ominous looking 
 corridor on the way to your next objective, for example. Needless to say, this can become really 
 fear-provoking, depending on your individual psychological makeup of course, and the way in which 
 the developers convey this angst through visual presentation is absolutely outstanding.
  
  The use of the holographic projector theme for video logs, inventory, log and map screens, etc. 
 also really looks good and works well once you get used to this deviation from the stock-standard 
 panel display method used in almost all other similar games.
  
  The gruesome nature of the subject matter at hand obviously brings with it a grotesque visual amount 
 of blood and gore as Necromorphs are dismembered or throwing up new incarnations of their own kind. 
 Even when dealing with this, almost kitsch, B-grade movie matter, Dead Space manages to pull it 
 off in an extremely sophisticated manner as far as the graphical portrayal thereof is concerned.
 
  
  Apart from the mouse movement lag, purely from a technical perspective as described earlier, Dead 
 Space achieves what it does in the graphical department with flying colors and deserves no less 
 than 9/10.
  
  Audio:
  
  In most of the reviews I have done here on GameSpot over the years, the audio area has always been 
 that part of the review that I have had the least to say.
  
  The reason for this lack of review matter so to speak, lies in the fact that one can really ask 
 yourself, given today's technology, what is it that any gamer would expect from a game developed 
 after 1997.
  
  I guess the answer would be that we all expect the fundamentals such as background music, voice-overs 
 where applicable, environmental sounds and everything else that goes with a relatively decent game 
 production of any kind.
  
  So, if we would expect a game to have accurate lip synchronization, good background music and environmental 
 sounds, what would set it apart from the rest?
  
  In the case of Dead Space, the answer is simple  ambiance.
  
  It's been quite a while since 
 I could really comment on how well a game uses music and sound effects to enhance the already bone-chilling 
 atmosphere so well presented in its graphical department.
  
  The use environmental audio effects in Dead Space, such as clanging metal canisters in the distance, 
 the pattering of Necromorphic appendages on the ceiling right above you, the accelerated breathing 
 within your helmet in the dead silence of some of the zero air-pressure zones, along with the constant 
 whispering of voices across the Ishimura are simply sublime.
  
  Combine this with an original music score that would put most horror/thriller movie productions 
 to shame, and it would be difficult to say that Dead Space doesn't deserve an Oscar for this part 
 of its production, if such an award existed for computer games. In fact, as far as Genre Awards 
 for 2008 are concerned, the judges here at GameSpot seem to agree.
  
  Dead Space deserves nothing less than 10/10 in the audio department.
  
  Value:
  
  One could 
 argue that the 15 to 20 hours worth of gameplay that you will get out of Dead Space the first time 
 round, is a bit short compared to some of the other mammoth titles that have been released in recent 
 years.
  
  Then again, I can't remember the last time I had the urge to replay any similar game at a higher 
 difficulty setting the moment I completed it the first time round. Usually, the game will end up 
 in my collection cupboard and perhaps I'll look at it again in a year or so. That was definitely 
 not the case here.
  
  In fact, once you complete the game for the first time, you are rewarded by unlocking a so-called 
 "impossible" difficulty setting, which I suspect will probably take a lot longer than 20 hours 
 to complete, if at all! Unfortunately, I wouldn't know, since I am currently still busy at what 
 I would call a "fairly hard" difficulty setting and have been at that for approximately 25 hours 
 with still some way to go.
  
  From a storyline perspective I can also see why the designers didn't want to extend much beyond 
 what is there at present. The old clich of getting too much of a good thing comes to mind, and 
 in my opinion, from a pure overall production point of view, it would have been risky dragging 
 the conclusion of the storyline out much further than has been done in the final product. The current 
 ending really leaves you with a feeling of wanting more and does so in a positive way  perhaps 
 leaning towards a Dead Space II, tying up one or two of the loose ends still out there?
  
  All considered from a value perspective, I would therefore give Dead Space a rating of 8/10.
 
  
  Who Should Get It:
  
  Just about any computer gamer/collector that I can think of that's old enough, depending on the 
 age rating for this game in your particular country/territory, bearing in mind the game's rather 
 gruesome subject matter and graphical depictions.
  
  Who Shouldn't Bother:
  
  Off-hand, I can't really think of any computer gamer that won't like Dead Space or shouldn't have 
 it in their collection.
  
  The only influencing factors on this decision as far as I can see will lie in the game's age rating 
 in various countries and those gamers who simply don't like to be scared out of their wits while 
 sitting alone in the dark in front of their computer screens at night.
  
  With the exception of a few parents out there, I realize that many readers will disagree here, 
 but I for one, won't let my eight-year-old daughter play this game, no matter what anybody leads 
 me to believe.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: truemattyz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This game really needs playing.. no really once you get around the dodgy controls and the problems 
 wiht the mouse and screen sincige (ive never been into spelin) it works just fine.. you need to 
 disable vsync to get this to work well.
  
  the story is fantastic and above most this is what i look for in a game.. i enjoy a good story 
 sorry its one of problems if its not a good story then i like to be involved somehow i like games 
 that alow me to foget about my real life surroundings albiet just for a little while .. anywho 
 this is what makes a good film. this game gives me everything in a big basket of blood curderling 
 space junk..
  
  
  it makes you feel like your there and you have a whole story unfolding infront of your eyes. 
 
  
  beside the obvious its a horror i love horrors and the added genius of the way you have to deal 
 with your prey in this game makes it all that more sweeter. all that more involving.. i also enjoy 
 collecting this and leveling up and this game also gives me this..
  
  to sum up 
  guns=yes 
  girls=1 but yes 
  colect-ing-tings = yes 
  story=yes 
  leveling=yes
  blood=yes
 
  
  amoungst other things.... ok the controls arent that great but heak i put up with witcher and that 
 was on par if not worse.. and if you turn of your vsync its ok. this game has everything i want 
 its great and worth a go if you fancy something differnt then look no further ..
  
  also the film aint bad ... whihc i believe was done after this.
  
  
  deadspace : downfall 
 
  
  http://www. deadspacethemovie. com/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endorphin
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This is one the most disappointing games I have ever played. If I didn't see the 9 rating, I probably 
 would not even bother. If GameSpot gave a 6 or 7, then it is probably still within the tolerant 
 zone, but 9? You gotta be kidding.
  
  Too many doors, not enough space. I guess that's why it's called Dead Space. The third person format 
 doesn't help either. They should have made this game an FPS to offset the lack of space to run. 
 
  
  I tried playing using keyboard, tried playing on a gamepad. It just doesn't feel right. Seriously, 
 the developer need to have a First Person camera angle in the next series. Jumping is not an option 
 in the game. I guess because the developer tried to give a weight/space impression. Hence the navigation 
 feels clunky and heavy. It doesn't give you the same type of movement in games such as Hitman, 
 where the 3rd person format feels just right.
  
  If you wanna spend money buying this game, don't. Go buy something else instead, like S. T. A. L. K. E. R 
 for example. Great game with great replay value. This game is waaaaay too overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SauloM
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with the good points of the game. The graphics are amazing. The animations are cool, 
 not great. The only complain on thsi area is the same one i made on Doom #, repetitive. 
  The sound is amazing too, its relally get u on taht scary place.
  
  The gameplay is very repetitive 
 too, as ur like the other characters intern, doing all the hard work ... In about 1h i was sick 
 of doing pointless objectiveis over, and over,,, and over... 
  
  I disagree with Gamespot on the Ai... the mobs have little to none Ai.. no tactics wahtsowheaver... 
 they only run towards u .. no team tactics of any sort..
  
  The story is beyong cliche...
  
  The Aspect taht irritade me the most was the paradoxal weapons...
 
  The game says clearly that ur a Enginner... why the hell would a saw need bulletS? Why the hell 
 there r so many cutting tools around Ishimura? I know why... because the game want u to cut the 
 limbs... strategic !?? nothing strategic about that... ks of game did that before... 
  
  
  Well i have struggled to finish the game.. not because it was hard.. not at all ... there are some 
 weapon that ruin the experience by being overpowered... so i was bored to death .. only finished 
 the game to have a good opinio about it.
  
  OVERRATED
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legends211
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space for the PC will come off as quite a surprisingly good game. Though the game has its 
 flaws, you will still enjoy the intense action, creepy and thrilling atmosphere, and good story.
 
  
  The first thing many PC gamers will notice when they first run the game is the delay in reaction 
 from the cursor on the menu screen and shows up in game too. This is a visual bug that EA should 
 consider patching quickly because it will immediately be noticeable and turn gamers away. This 
 half second delay can easily be wiped away by turning off the V-sync in the game's visual options. 
 
  
  Story 9/10 Great Story that progresses throughout the game and keeps you asking questions until 
 the final chapter
  
  Gameplay 9/10 Great action and very cool weapons. Every weapon in the game has use and can be upgraded 
 with the use of nodes found throughout the game. The enemies are smarter and harder to kill than 
 you think. You almost have to blow off every limb to kill your enemy and running away never seems 
 to work as find a way to crawl through ventilation ducts and come at you through the walls and 
 ceiling. Also the boss fights, while maybe a bit easy for the experienced gamer, are massive and 
 still very fun.
  
  Visuals 10/10 The game is beautiful on the PC and runs very smooth. I was very pleased that during 
 the huge detailed boss fights, there was hardly a stutter. Aside from having to turn the v-sync 
 off, which to be honest you hardly see many visual tears from moving around, the graphics are amazing.
 
  
  Sound 10/10 The sounds are terrifying. You hear monsters creeping around in the walls and listening 
 to their movements can help you determined just where they might strike. The music also ups the 
 terrifying experience as you run around. You feel more and more scared as the music continues to 
 get more intense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  It says a lot for Dead Space that -- despite the derivative "alien outbreak" sci-fi storyline and 
 cardboard characters -- it's still an incredible achievement. When the game design is this good, 
 and so flawlessly executed, it's easy to forgive Dead Space's less-than-satisfying exposition.
 
  
  The story snob in me wishes the final "twists" weren't telegraphed so obviously (and then over-explained 
 after the fact) . The key relationship between you and your wife is also underdeveloped -- if you 
 cared more about this character, just had a bit more to latch on to, it would heightened the drama 
 that unfolds substantially. This is very much retreading on the ground already mined over and over 
 in the films "Alien" or "The Thing." Dead Space borrows other ideas from System Shock II and Bioshock 
 (stranded in a dangerous location, dubious characters leading you along, who do you trust) ... 
 But the bottom line is, Dead Space is nearly flawless as an action game and that's ultimately all 
 that matters.
  
  Weapons feels weighty and smartly fit the theme of your character as an engineer. Tearing limbs 
 off instead of headshots sounds gimmicky at first, but the underlying strategy pays off throughout 
 the game. Each monster has to be approached a different way, despite the sharing the basic idea 
 of limb destruction. Boss encounters also fit the atmosphere of the game perfectly, and are just 
 challenging enough to make it a nail-biting showdown. Gun turret sections feel a bit unnecessary. 
 At least there's no rail sequence driving a Jeep or tank.
  
  Dead Space is just a very smartly designed game. It's a product that holds together as an experience 
 across the board. Everything from the upgradeable gear, to weapon selection, to enemy AI and strategy 
 -- it all fits together to support the story it's trying to tell.
  
  It's just unfortunate this attention to detail on game design didn't carry over to character development 
 or a more original storyline.
  
  Performance-wise, Dead Space runs great on a 3-year-old PC. Textures are incredibly detailed, animations 
 look fantastic, and lighting effects throughout seep with immersive detail. Floating dust in light 
 beams definitely caught my eye. The camera can be a little wonky when you're backed up against 
 corners or inside elevators, but it doesn't detract from gameplay. Movement is a little slow, in 
 the spirit of survival horror tension, so if you're expecting traditional FPS running around, be 
 ready for a surprise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennylson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 11:32 am PT
Review:  It was another game that I tracked with Gamespot long before it got released. So when it eventually 
 came out, I couldn't wait to get stuck into it and boy was I pleased! It is understandably comparable 
 to Doom 3 with the whole horror in space idea but this game completely eclipses Doom 3 in every 
 way. 
  
  I chose to play it using my Xbox360 controller and the control system works very well indeed. Aiming 
 can be a little tricky at times but that just adds to the challenge for me. You play as Isaac Clarke 
 who is an engineer arriving on a huge mining ship with his crew mates after hearing that it is 
 in need of some engineering repair work. Once you get on board, you realise that the problems on 
 the ship go far far far beyond a few machines needing to be fixed. Your team is quickly down to 
 just you and two others and you communicate with them through your high-tech suit that can be upgraded 
 as you progress. This suit is a great idea and it is also where you will read a lot of your game 
 stats from. Instead of a HUD, you read your health, stasis charge and ammo info directly from things 
 shown on the suit and weapons. You also have mission goal, inventory and map screens that can be 
 accessed by bringing up a holographic image in front of Isaac in real-time.
  
  The graphics and sound are excellent and the attention to detail is spot on. This is a really beautiful 
 game that EA should be very proud of. The storyline isn't exactly anything new but it is still 
 very gripping all the same. There are obvious influences from movies like Event Horizon and Alien 
 within it and the game does look very much like Doom 3 in 3rd-person from time to time but It is 
 certainly not a cheap rip-off! The enemies (called Necromorphs) are some of the most spectacularly 
 horrific creatures I have ever seen and they are extremely aggressive and hostile. They really 
 do just want to rip you to shreds and it shows in some of the set-pieces when you are killed. Isaac 
 is literally torn limb from limb in a very brutal, bloody way. On top of that, you will face a 
 number of superb boss battles too (most notably at the end of chapter 6) . The whole game is a big 
 adrenaline rush of panic, suspense and fear. Everything you want in this kind of game is there.
 
  
  The structure of the game pans out in a fairly linear way where you arrive on a deck via the tram 
 system, complete a number of tasks within it and then go back on the tram and travel to another 
 deck to complete a new set of tasks. Now a lot of people have said that it is too repetitive and 
 gets boring as a result but for me, the action was so much fun to endure that I just wanted more 
 of the same!! The weapon upgrades via the power node system is crucial to this game's success as 
 it allows you to make your makeshift mining tool weapons stronger and faster.
  
  I never expected this game to be as good as it is and I cannot praise it enough. It was just what 
 I needed to pick me up off the back of playing that dull Alone In The Dark remake! It fully deserves 
 the awards that it won and it's a bold statement but I think it is probably the best game I have 
 ever played. A serious gamer cannot go through their life without playing this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codename_halo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:18 am PT
Review:  what you have here is a perfect mixture of doom 3's atmosphere, Resident Evil 4's great gameplay 
 and last but not least Silent Hill's twisted storyline, which sums up one of the greatest horror-survival 
 titles to this day!
  The events of dead space takes place on a not so distant future on a remote star system on-board 
 of USS Ishimura, an enormous advanced mining facility/starship which cracks open supposedly lifeless 
 remote planets for minerals and sort, it all starts when there is a distress signal from ishimura 
 for which an investigating team including you (Isac) sets foot on the ship, just to find out well 
 nobody's in there except... well you should really do this on your own, i wont spoil it for you.
 
  as i said before the mood and atmosphere has that familiar jumpy vibe of doom 3's, except there 
 is a little more mystery involved and you actually have a purpose, a personal purpose to pursue (which 
 again i won't spoil for you) , the environments and the characters both hostile and friendly are 
 very well done, the story also is somehow complex with a few elements of surprise and twist, the 
 graphics is one of the best and is very very detailed, and finally the gameplay is just perfect 
 for this genre, a Resident Evil 4 kind of hard to handle over the shoulder third person view which 
 adds a great deal of reality and harshness to everything and is a great plus for that matter combined 
 with a great selection of simply effective and genuine range of weaponry which simply and surprisingly 
 makes dead space one of the greatest action Horror-Survival titles you have seen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acordaro1994
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:55 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a game that involves alien-ish zombies that are in a huge space ship lurking 
 in the dark and pop out when you at least except it then this is the game you'll enjoy. If your 
 tired of playing first person shooters then you should give this third person shooter a try because 
 any one would love it. I normally play FPS but i liked horror games so i gave this a try and it 
 turned out to be really fun and pretty easy to control with all the third person movement. The 
 graphics are good and the sound at some parts are kind of scary like the music you can hear when 
 you enter the baby room. Dead Space does set a scary, horror atmosphere in there game. There is 
 one thing i found that suck or at least to me, you run out of ammo easily but maybe im not just 
 shooting them in the rights places or because im playing hard mode. But overall i think and know 
 you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_151
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 2:25 am PT
Review:  Reader be warned :this review may contain exagerations because i`m crazy about this game!!
  
  First when you will see Dead Space in the stores you will say:"Neah , another EA game.". Well, 
 you`d be wrong!
  You play as engineer Isaac Clarke (a small tribute to Asimov and Arthur Clarke) . He is sent with 
 four mates to repair the communications of USG Ishimura a giant planet cracker. Obviously something 
 went horribly wrong .You`re separated from the others and you have to complete several objectives.
 
  Innovation is everywhere (almost) : if you aim for the head or the body you`ll be dead soon; the total 
 lack of a traditional HUD and the integration of menus in holograms (the action doesn`t pause , 
 so be on your guard! A thing that might upset you (besides the mouse aiming) is that the game uses 
 spawning, but it works in it`s favor (you never know when or where will a peaceful necromorph appear) .
 
  The sound design is amazing. There is no other game with a sound design so frightning and heart-pounding.
 
  Overall it`s an amazing, innovative and immersive game and you should not miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jericho9696
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a survioval horror game, that is really refreshing, because unlike other shooters, 
 in Dead Space, you have to shoot at legs, arms, anything.
  
  So crippeling the enemy is the best option, in the game there are a few boss fights but they are 
 AWESOME, and really scary too.
  
  If you're used to scares and stuff, you will not scared in the begining but believe me....... if 
 you'll be at the end of the game , you WILL crap you're pants because there are: baby zombies, 
 exploding zombies, EXTREMELY fast zombies, and the scariest: The undieing zombie, which WILL scare 
 you because they are slow and they can easily catch up because you're in pressure.
  
  In conclusion, if you're a Resident Evil fan, Silent Hill fan and so on you should really get this 
 for any of the three platforms, and there's going to be a Wii version of it which seems pretty 
 good, but still I'm not sure. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerbc
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I hadn't seen the movie Event Horizon and nor was I aware of a situation which involves a spaceship, 
 loneliness and shear horror.
  Although the game has very few traces of the movie, it shamelessly ups the ante by delivering a 
 blood curdling, in your face form of hell.
  Dead Space isnt a game, its close to a nightmare. That is the reason why it takes time in finishing 
 such a game that makes you question each step.
  A strong plot that does not waiver, combined with gameplay that strikes the sub-conscious is the 
 UPS of this game. Although the game is a third-person shooter, I (an FPS enthusiast) felt so much 
 at ease with the controls and the absence of any hud display. This was an unexpected but nonetheless 
 a remarkable feat by the Dev's. 
  Someone wrote in their review about the logical failure of the way in which the map is displayed. 
 All I can say is that, if you have used maps in FPS/TPS games, you should find it relatively easier 
 to find your way around Dead Space, especially when you have also been provided with an option 
 called "Breadcrumbs", which is executed by press of a key and it shows you the path of your next 
 objective. No, its all logic but someone missed the point.
  It would be redundant on my part to iterate the strategy of killing necromorphs, since it has been 
 vociferously stated by anyone who has played it and the entire team of Dead Space. 
  Upgrading of suit and weapons is rewarding and necessary due to the nature of the enemies and the 
 environment. Being stalked by necromorphs in a vacuum or zero gravity is extremely nerve wracking 
 at times and this is very well done. The game does not let the player have all the glory and I'd 
 be lying if I didnt say that I didnt get a moment's peace until I saw this game through. The game 
 maintains its integrity from starting to finish and it delivers on all fronts. Graphics, Storyline, 
 Gameplay, Physics and Dynamics, Animations, Sound, Replay value and of course Gore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perquak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 1:48 am PT
Review:  I just finished playing Dead Space and it's the best shooter that I've played since the original 
 F. E. A. R. The visuals are absolutely stunning. The sound is the best I've ever heard. The story 
 line is terrific and I'm still recoiling from some scary moments that made me jump out of my chair.
 
  
  I was most impressed by the fact that, although I played the game with graphic settings maxed out, 
 the game never slowed down during a battle no matter how many sprites were on the screen. I was 
 totally impressed by the absence of stuttering sound and frame-rate crawl during the major Boss 
 battles. Kudos to the programmers for accomplishing this feat which others don't even attempt to 
 implement.
  
  My only disappointment is that I just finished playing the game and I'll have to wait a long time 
 until another shooter comes around to top it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: esba160
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 8:35 am PT
Review:  I am a horror and Sci-Fi junky those are 2 of my favorite themes a crossbreed between alien 
 and the thing on a space ship name Ishimura sounded good I thought so I decided to give it a try 
 
  
  Let me get the bad out of the way: I had a chance to play the game on xbox 360, but I beat it on 
 PC. On both PC and Xbox the camera and limited space could be frustrating. 
  There are times in the game where the only way you beat it is by trial and error. That could be 
 annoying but it adds some old school flavor to the game.
  
  The good: Atmosphere is solid, graphix are excellent on my PC and runs smooth im still at nvidia 
 9600. 
  Atmosphere: Visuals, details, freaking sound is great.. It is a pretty scary game, I like scary 
 and this game made me jump couple of times 
  
  Story is pretty interesting and it will keep you engaged until the end. 
  
  Monsters: awesome 
  a big fan of Carpenter's The Thing, mutated 6+ limbs monsters totally did it for me freaky as 
 isht!! Besides the looks the AI is pretty good and monsters behave different. Plus a good variety 
 of enemies with occasional mini bosses and once in a while some big ones..
  
  Gore: great! lots of itso if you are a blood thirsty gamer this is a game for you
  Excellent 
 death scenarios its fun to watch yourself being diced or ripped apart aha.. im not crazy
  
  Freaking weapons: In the beginning, u will feel that the weapons are a bit weak, but as you 
 advance you will be able to apply multiple upgrades to your weapons. NOTE all the weapons are designed 
 and easily cut your enemies limbs offthat is the easiest way to kill those pukers.. if I am not 
 mistaking there are about 6-8 weapons in the game, you can only carry 4. All of them have a pretty 
 cool industrial design
  On top of that there are 2 powers that you posses and that is kinesis and slomo useful things 
 in puzzle solving and fighting the enemies.
  
  Economy/Upgrades: the game has mini economy, you will be able to drop by many electronic stores, 
 where you can purchase or sell goodies like: ammo, health, weapons, suits, power nodes, micro schemas 
 etc 
  
  In order to upgrade your weapons or suit.. you will need a power node.. nifty little thing.. you 
 find them throughout the game or purchase them in the store. You also find a lot of things that 
 you can always sell and cash in
  
  Difficulty: the game difficulty is just right, you snooze you loose.. a nice chop from your enemy 
 will split you in half in a matter of seconds Play on medium or hard.. and save very often
  
  Altogether it is a great game for people that enjoy Sci-fi and horror, not for people that 
 do not have patience or want a mindless beat em up or shoot em up game like gears
  
  play it.. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ralthor125
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  What is it about a game where the object is not to just shoot your enemy, but to sever as many 
 limbs as you can before it reaches you. Blowing the legs of of an enemy rushing at you, only to 
 have it pull itself along by its arms afterwards in an attempt to still get at you so that you 
 now have to takes it's arms as well. There are several creatures in the game where you are going 
 to need to just about cut every piece off of them to make sure they are dead. I would suggest stomping 
 everything into pieces to save ammo.
  
  The game runs beautifully on the PC. The story line is great and entertaining. The only flaw I 
 find is that there is only one weapon worth using the entire game, and that is the plasma cutter 
 (upgrade this to the max before anything else to save ammo) . The rest are not even worth aquiring 
 in my opinion.
  
  This is by far one of the best horror/action games I've played in some time. Rent it or buy it, 
 but whatever you do, play this game... in the dark :)
  
  It is also best to either have a nice surround sound system going, or use some high quality headphones. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuildsmanCoren
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 6:04 am PT
Review:  The good:
  - Heavy and oppressive atmosphere that doesn't give you time to breathe
  - Great graphics
  - Absolutely disgusting enemies
  - Enjoyable (if not very original) gameplay
 
  
  The bad:
  - Controls take a lot of getting used to. They're certainly functional for the genre (limited movement 
 = extra claustrophobia) , but movement still feels restricting and sluggish, which will annoy you 
 especially if you're a PC gamer.
  - Despite the oppressive atmosphere, the horror is mostly based on cheap scares and rarely on a 
 real feeling of dread
  - I know Dead Space got praised for its sound design, but I'm personally not a fan. Much like the 
 rest of the game, the audio lacks subtlety. There's always something bubbling, clanking or hissing, 
 which gets tiresome after a while.
  - The storyline. The main story arc wasn't all that bad (even though we've all been there, done 
 that and bought the T-shirt countless time before) , but the way the different sub-objectives were 
 linked to each other was anything but realistic or interesting. "Isaac the power's out, fix it!" 
 "OMG Isaac now that hangar door is broken, fix it!" "WTF Isaac now the comm system is down, fix 
 it!". It feels like the game designers couldn't figure out a way to get you from one major story 
 event to the next, so they just made a list of all the stuff that could possibly break down.
  
  Despite its many flaws, Dead Space is still a very enjoyable ride. You'll be sitting on the 
 edge of your seat from beginning to end. It might not be another Bioshock or Silent Hill, but it's 
 certainly able to hold its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORD_MARINE
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 11:20 am PT
Review:  Idea/Originality 1 point
  
  Storyline 1 point
  
  Animations 1 point
  
  - The game itself is the animation - spectacular details
  
  Sounds/Music 1 point
  
  - Most 
 impressive 5.1 with background scary sounds following you across the map... also characters breathing 
 heavily while wounded... heart rate .. etc..
  
  Graphics 1 point
  
  - Passing through derelict parts of Ishimura with cracks in the hull.... when you see the space 
 you'll be speechless.... seeing the planet/stars/body parts floating around you... something special 
 for all those who love Scfi.
  
  Mission updates/Debriefing/Quests 1 point
  
  - Excellent... display appears as a hologram projection near the character... so you can walk and 
 watch the video... in your rampage you'll come across some audio/video/data logs that keep you up 
 to date.. really good!
  
  Gameplay 1 point
  
  - At first little strange with the controls (not able to change some) , but after you see that there 
 are too much commands (for inventory and other accessories spreading over the num pad and movement 
 keys... making easy access...) ... you'll get along just fine knowing where is what.
  - Bonus is if you have wide screen monitor... character moves to the left side of the screen so 
 you can see & disasembel anything that moves on your right side... creating better view...
  - Most impressive for me is when the enemy bites you trying to chew your head off by the neck, 
 and you defend yourself with the key (E) forcing your character to fight and kill him hand to hand.
 
  
  AI 1 point
  
  - Ruthless... intelligent beasts that can crawl through any air went and attack you from behind... when 
 you run be sure to turn your back to a solid wall... because if multiple enemies are chasing you.. one 
 will run directly at you, second will climb on the ceiling and the third will jump into a nearest 
 air went trying to attack you from behind.
  - They play dead so be sure to cut them up... when they fall for any case run & bash their body's 
 with your foot... so that they stay down.
  
  Weapons/Armor/Upgrades 1 point
  
  - You have some interesting weapons with primary and secondary fire
  - On you're exploration 
 you'll encounter some computerized shops to upgrade your armor/buy new weapons & store items that 
 don't fit in you're inventory.
  - Scavenge the map for anything... because you can sell it and buy some nodes... these nodes upgrade 
 you're armor/special abilities and weapons at designated facility called Bench.
  
  Multiplayer 0 points
  
  Bonus 1 point
  
  - Well this game is so perfect that I can't give 
 9 points for lacking multiplayer... so 1 point from me and my recommendation is to check out the 
 animated "Death Space Downfall"... explains the story of Ishimuras fall... bloody and violent horror 
 cartoon like the game...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I have never felt so immersed in a game as much as i did in Dead Space. WARNING: IF YOU DO NOT 
 HAVE A GAMEPAD DO NOT ATTEMPT TO PLAY THIS ON A PC. Now that we got that out of the way, the game 
 itself is tight. 
  
  Gameplay
  The controls are very tight and intuitive, i have a logitech rumblepad 2. For some reason the vibration 
 didnt work, too bad wouldve made the game even more immersive. The addition of a HUD that is in-game 
 makes it even more immersive, cause you got to whip out a weapon or a health pack in game, which 
 is tense and gives a rush of adrenaline as youre trying to get your item, and necromorphs are after 
 you.
  
  Story
  You are Issac Clarke, an engineer for a mining colony. You return a distress call from the ship, 
 USG Ishimura. When you arrive on the ship, its like a horror movie where the crap has hit the fan. 
 everyone is dead or mutilated into creatures called necromorphs that want to make you one of them. 
 Awesome story, and AWESOME boss battles. Many plot twists and great surprises that i wont spoil 
 for you.
  
  Graphics
  They really went all out with this game, but the graphics still shone greatly among its other strengths. 
 Gore is shown awesomely, and the physics are realistic, the zero-g parts are amazing, and when 
 you see the sun in the last level, you just look at it and seems like youre there kicking some 
 alien ass. The audio is also top notch, as this game sounded awesome on my 5.1 audio system, with 
 creaks from the ship, screams, blood on the walls, and the space portions where all the sound is 
 muted out except some is just amazing.
  
  All in all, this game was awesome and scared the crap out of me, as i didnt know what was around 
 the corner. Fun, scary, interesting, looks great, what more can you ask for in a horror shooter, 
 or a game in its own right? I mean ya, its hard, but its good enough that the challenge just makes 
 it more fun and tense. A must buy for any horror, shooter, resident evil, or bioshock fan, which 
 is a lot of people. So play this game if you have the chance, its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2009 11:11 am PT
Review:  Dead Space was one of the most hyped horror games during the holiday season. Hopes were high for 
 this game as it came nearer to being released. I finally got my hands on it and expected a smooth 
 horror ride. And i was dissapointed. In an attempt to make the player feel desperate as he fought 
 for his life on the Planet Cracker Ishimura, they implemented a third person view. Your character 
 takes up approximately 1/3 of the screen, a major pain in the a*s. To add to it, he moves and turns 
 so slowly, which is unfortunate because many monsters seem to come up from behind you. This just 
 frustrates the player. Deadspace is a mix between Resident Evil and Doom 3, running through dark 
 corridors with your character blocking your view. Not eveyones cup of tea. If you don't like Doom 
 3 or Resident Evil don't bother falling for the hype and buying this game. However, Dead Space 
 is a solid game with not much replay value. Once your through, you won't feel like playing it again. 
 Its just one of those games. The concept of being stranded in a space station is cool, but this 
 game just never lived up to the concept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mazen_24
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:07 am PT
Review:  1. First the name of the game DEAD SPACE is weird for a horror game.. u know space is already dead 
 and empty hhh.. so dead space is realy a scaryy name, heh, i wonder if they will make a Dead space 
 2.. OMG!! plz.. begin with changing the name..
  
  2. prologue: thats great u begin in a spaceship why no one knows.. the main character is someone 
 wearing METAL hhh....
  
  3. Gameplay : thats what makes this game .sryyy STUPID..!! The weapons are weird Who created those 
 thingss.. moving, aiming, camera oh hell.. m realy sorry bu that's a truth.. because i played a lot 
 games as resident evil ,Fallout ,i m talking gameplay.. they made what we need to play simply and 
 easily.. with Logic weapons.. not neccassary real weapons But they are at least Logic..!!
  
  4. Main Character: He is annoying , i realy hate the main character of the game .. usually we should 
 like the main character .. but in this game he made me sick... His sound when he is wounded ooooh, ill,, i 
 dnt know if they made that sound to make us feel SCARY hhh nooo THAT IS A WEAK POINT FOR HORROR 
 GAME.. when we play we should feel the horror NOT CREATE THE HORROR... and wht abt the inventory.. no 
 or the map... why ?? who makes such a map.... PLZ BE SIMPLE... it is good to have a new technique 
 for the inventory and etc.. but not to everything ... the map should be made to ease up our positions.. but 
 THAT MAP CONFUSED ME...
  
  5. Rating: 7 as maximumm,,, do not deserve 9 by anyway..
  
  6. Conclusion : i hope you will understand what i wrote .i know they are harsh.. but they are really 
 helpful if the problems are solved later .. hope to take this into consideration.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game grew on me as I played it. I had heard that it was a "horror" game set in space. However, 
 while the setting and environment classify as a horror type setting, it didn't scare me or freak 
 me out. I played F. E. A. R. and I will admit that there was once or possibly twice that something 
 came up that it caught me by surprise. This was not my experience with this game. However, it was 
 quite enjoyable and I averaged about 1 hour per level, and there are 12 levels. All in all, I would 
 suggest this game to somebody thinking about playing it. It was enjoyable, and I looked forward 
 to playing it each night. If you like a good FPS, then I say give this one a shot and see what 
 you think about this one. This game will lead you throughout a spaceship running through biological 
 gunk, fighting grotesgue monsters, and trying upgrade your suit and weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BizzleBob007
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2009 12:18 am PT
Review:  The first two levels of the game completely drew me in. The music and lighting provided enough 
 atmosphere to keep me slowly peeking around every corner. The graphics were pretty good, despite 
 having a few of the bad guys die with half their bodies sticking through a wall. But then it goes 
 downhill from there.
  I was splattered by a centrifuge three times, destroyed by meteorites three times, destroyed by 
 asteroids seven times, and electrocuted numerous times. Just as in real life, sometimes you have 
 to die and be reincarnated in order to figure out some of life's mysteries. Seriously though, the 
 one-touch-and-your-dead parts of the game were so frustrating that I had to stop playing. If these 
 platform-logic sections of the game were removed I would score the game higher.
  Also, after the first two levels, the missions get very repetitive. You are always fetching something 
 to move somewhere else, or fighting your way through so you can push a button. The load times, 
 disguised as sealed doors, trams, and elevators, can get quite long. 
  The first two levels scored a 9.5, the rest of it gets a 6. Overall I gave it a 7 because of the 
 repetitive nature and the unnecessary death traps placed on nearly every level. Took the fun right 
 out of the game and completely lost my addiction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klearlyc
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I read a web review that suggested this game provide nothing "new" to revamp or revolutionize the 
 horror shooter genre. Who cares? The rest of the gaming world and I don't pick up a game to be 
 involved in revolution. We want to have fun and be entertained. High marks for this game on both 
 fronts. The controls and immersive concepts does just that, it immerses you in the title. The plot 
 also doesn't attempt to change the world of gaming rather tells a tale of yearning to rescue a 
 love one and just as important, one of survival. Graphics are clean and worthy of current generation 
 hardware. Audio complements the game play. The catch of the game is its real time inventory and 
 objectives menus or lack there of. It's rather a projection that is display in front of your avatar's 
 suit providing a concept that suggests your avatar is reading the necessary info in game and not 
 just you the player fiddling around with menus. Since it is real time it means your character is 
 susceptible to attacks. This scheme adds to the adrenaline and builds the anxiety or need to keep 
 vigilant. One drawback is the camera view of this scheme in tight spaces, it doesn't work sometime 
 because either you can't see part of the display or it hinders your view of the environment or 
 the unfriendlies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: space_loner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of FPS games in general but am not exactly a fan of the horror shooter subgenre. 
 Doom, for example, was unplayable for me with its total lack of plot and noncombat situations.
 
  
  Dead Space is, of course, an improvement in nearly every way. I am exceptionally impressed by the 
 audio, the innovative combat system, and how the graphics looks quite nice on my mid-range system 
 (I get decent frame rates on my lenova T61 laptop running the game at 1280:720x60hz on high graphic 
 settings)
  
  There are a few annoying downsides to Dead Space. In particular I am annoyed that over-the-shoulder 
 is the only view allowed in the game. This is, in my opinion, far and away the worst viewpoint 
 to play a shooter, as my own character is constantly in the way of what I want to look at. I would 
 give the game 9.0 if I could play it in first person view.
  
  And for Dead Space to get 9.5 from me, all it has to add is more freedom in saving. I'd just like 
 to say that predetermined save points is so 20th century. It adds nothing to the game except frustration 
 for the players. I hope Dead Space is the last good game to be dragged down by a save-point system 
 (the worst part is the save point is also the only out-of-character feature in the game. Everything 
 else (minimap, objectives, etc.) has been integrated into the game so beautifully and the save 
 points just ruin it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecat1310
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 6:48 am PT
Review:  I've got to say that its AWESOME ,although i got a bug that makes the action scenes echo a bit 
 its still worth buying.
  
  and im going to write point outs some good stuff about this game. its got Good Graphics, Mysterious 
 side to the game (decoding alien language if you can find the decoder and find alien words.) , Shocking 
 surprises and a Prologue Movie ' Dead Space: Downfall'
  
  I would say its just a bit like Bioshock with a mix of Resident Evil
  and its not just one of 
 those 3rd person si-fi horror shooters its a 3rd person si-fi shooter with a influence for future 
 horror games. and here are some things it has in common with Bioshock . Being traped in a place 
 away from civilization, a little bit of an old touch and freaky zombies (diffrent kinds/kind of zombies)
 
  
  and also it could do better with a Co-op (lan or online) and if any one finds a fix for the bug 
 i have message me
  
  DEFINITELY WORTH WHATEVER CURRENCY YOU USE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2009 3:31 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is by no means a terrible game but it does demonstrate many shortcomings. What a surprise 
 to me most people seem blind to the fact that Dead Space borrowed a lot of stuff from existing 
 titles. From my point of view, Dead Space is radically overrated. Even so, It's not a bad game 
 to say the least if you like shooting things to hell.
  
  Why am I saying that Dead Space is similar to other horror games? In my knowledge, Dead Space is 
 best compared to a game called The Thing developed back in 2002 by VU Games on the PS2/ Xbox/ PC. 
 Dead Space and The Thing share a lot of common grounds. Although The Thing's story takes place 
 on a icy part of Earth in present day while the events of Dead Space occurs in space in the future, 
 their backgrounds are almost parallel: some crazy scientists grow on an alien life form and conduct 
 dangerous experiment with no regard to the risk. Their fantasy no doubt guarantees an all-hell-break-loose 
 consequence. Aliens, parasitic on what were humans, overrun the place. You play a solider on an 
 investigation team to see why communication has been lost from the base. Bah-bah-bah. Did I ring 
 the bell yet?
  
  The Thing featured a much more sterilized environment than Dead Space probably due to technological 
 constraints at its time. But who hasn't seen bloody hell at all? Blood and stain are all over the 
 place in Doom 3, Quake 4 and the Silent Hill games (notably in the Otherworld) to name just a few. 
 So you can't call Dead Space a particularly atmospheric game for that.
  
  What about the weapons? They all feel somewhat underpowered. They look terrible too. I also mistake 
 the plasma cutter and the line gun as "bows" thanks to their looks. But each really has its own 
 strength and weakness, which is good. The rapid-firing pulse rifle and limb-cutting line gun are 
 great against human sized enemies while the flamethrower is a must to deal with swarms of small 
 aliens that you will want to keep away. You will be disappointed if you desire to see weapons looking 
 and sounding more powerful than ever but they can get the job done nicely. That suffices, I suppose.
 
  
  The armor and the character model must take heavy criticism from me. Issac, the protagonist, moves 
 awkwardly and he has a winded back? His face is completely enclosed by armor (ever since you take 
 control of him) and he doesn't talk (like the infamous silent marine in Doom 3) . As a result, you 
 don't get to know Issac and thus we all never develop a bond with him. These faults won't break 
 a game but can certainly prevent a game from being great. That armor suit is very ugly for me. 
 It is like an oddly modified astronaut uniform. No more, no less. It's neither handsome nor realistic.
 
  
  The gameplay is solid and the layout of the levels is pretty linear for the most part except the 
 upside-down gravity zero areas. Press and hold B on the keyboard to see the route. But you will 
 barely come across any labyrinths alike so you are free to do a bit more exploration, which usually 
 awards you more ammo and health items. There are no extras though. Sometimes I would get lost but 
 that's because some locked doors open which I miss on a back-tracking route. Overall, the option 
 to see the correct path is welcoming. Good job for that one.
  
  The enemy range is pleasing. It makes players wonder how the developers can think of so many monsters 
 which are very disgusting to look at. They look so alien that I have long given up on recognizing 
 every type of them (Of course I can tell between the big and small. I only have trouble distinguishing 
 the two-legged humanoid ones) . Some disturbing monster designs bear human characteristics and once 
 again remind us The Thing.
  
  Graphic-wise, Dead Space is very detailed. In particular, the corpses are quite interactive. Every 
 limb and the head can be blown off a body and you can really kick them out of your way in real 
 time. Apart from the decent level of detail, Dead Space fails to set a new standard. It can just 
 be me but I think Doom 3 does not necessarily look inferior to it.
  
  The sound is okay. You only hear from a couple of people and the voice acting is just like all 
 times. There isn't a gorgeous soundtrack in like Resident Evil or Silent Hill. Instead, like Doom 
 3, Dead Space puts players on edge by jumping them with bizarre noises in the background.
  
  The upgrade system is well-done. I like that the safe where you can store surplus is accessible 
 at any stores so you never need to leave behind items (thanks goes to Capcom as well, which first 
 introduced this concept in Resident Evil) . Perhaps it's because I play on Easy at the first time, 
 money and items come quickly and I can manage and upgrade things with ease.
  
  Dead Space isn't a revolutionary game. It's almost a revamped image of The Thing taken into space 
 many years later. Its graphics isn't mind-blowing either. In the end, it gives you some good scares, 
 massive boss battles and a lot of aliens to bring down. It's tough to say it clearly - you won't 
 feel too sorry like everybody is saying for missing out this game. If you are able to rent it or 
 buy it at a cheap price, Dead Space may be worth checking out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Games_pro
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 2:51 pm PT
Review:  
  Game play : The game is absolutely great and unique, it can be quite scary and gory at most situations 
 so its not for the faint hears but Unlike most horror and fps games ,this one does not give you 
 the heads up on a monster coming ,which gets you on the edge of your seat. You always have too keep 
 an eye on the ammo and try to use a combo between your gun a melee attacks which makes it somewhat 
 tricky and fun, by the way this game has the most satisfying melee attack ever, its feels very realistic, gory 
 and fun which is essential in horror games.
  -Many people have complained about close combats being difficult to control and hard to rotate 
 your character but you can easily overcome it by increasing the mouse sensitivity ,it would also 
 be nice if they gave us the choice to switch between fps/3rd person shooter views like fallout 
 3. All the game menus are like holograms which makes them attractive and easy to view in the middle 
 of action without blocking the background view.
  Missions objectives can be sometimes repetitive 
  
  Graphics are amazing and beautiful, and 
 the game runs smooth on high like a hot knife through butter without any lags, even when anti-aliasing 
 is turned on, however you have to turn off v-sync (which is sadly turned on by default which causes 
 bleeding in performance and slows the mouse) , v-sync is used to eliminate the tearing across the 
 screen, this tearing usually appears in areas with light intensity being changed rapidly, but you 
 can always live without v-sync, other than that there are no problems .
  
  Audio: This game has by far the best sound effects and ambient sounds I've seen in a long time, they 
 really set the creepy mood, they make the game more scary more than anything else.
  
  my game score 9/10 game play
  8.5/10 story
  9/10 graphics 
  10/10 audio
  So, this game 
 has by far raised the standards of this genre of shooters and its probably the best horror game 
 since doom 3,
  and fun to play and not brainless like resident evil .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space's theme is not exactly original, but when it comes to combining horror, sci-fi and mystery, 
 it executed its task tremendously well.
  
  Dead Space's pace of gameplay is such that it teases and toys (sometimes mercilessly) with the 
 gamer until the gamer realizes the trick to getting past a certain point in the game. Granted, 
 a veteran gamer may know well what to do the first time (e. g. glowing spots on monster's belly/tentacle/appendage? 
 Sure...) , but the game won't make it any easier for him/her.
  
  Graphics-wise, the doomed space station setting has been done before (pun not intended - in case 
 you realize what game I am alluding to) . However, with the inclusion of Stasis in addition to the 
 now common telekinesis/object manipulation/magnetic grappling feature in most action games, all 
 the typical space-station-ish levels like the Reactor and Bridge sets themselves apart.
  
  The weapons and armor design are perhaps the most peculiar that I have seen; some fibrous layer 
 over the skin with composite armor pads attached make for the most unique space suit that I have 
 ever seen. *Spoiler* The bonus military armor (Level 6 Suit) the player obtains at the end is also 
 impressive, though quite likely inspired by Stormtroopers or Clone troopers (the naval soldiers 
 depicted in the game doesn't even wear this) . The weapons, similarly, have a unique design, partly 
 due to the fact that many of them are weapons improvised from industrial tools. All of them animate 
 rather well, especially the surprisingly quick-to-deploy Line Gun.
  
  But perhaps the most unique feature of this game is the critical importance of strategic dismemberment. 
 At first, any typical gamer would think that shooting limbs are going to be too easy compared to 
 headshots. But when faced with the game's very erratic enemies (shooting their heads off makes 
 them even more unpredictable in their movements!) ... to quote Riddick, "new meat learns the hard 
 way". 
  
  Which brings us back to the design of the weapons again. Almost all of them are optimized for shearing 
 limbs off, even the predominantly combat oriented Pulse Rifle. Only the Flamethrower seems out 
 of place, though it has a knack for repulsing enemies - seems the necromorphs still don't like 
 to be on fire. All of them are different from the standard shooter fare, but one would eventually 
 appreciate their use - and their refreshingly wonky design.
  
  Unfortunately, the only possible chink in Dead Space's armour is the poor animated movie made to 
 set things up for this game. Fortunately, however, the movie can be considered to be an entirely 
 different product as most of the premise in the movie can be gleaned from the various intel and 
 logs scattered around the levels.
  
  This game certainly earned the nominations it has gotten for GameSpot Games Awards 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaga_Telesin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Short review since this one has to be experienced first hand.
  
  Cons first, only two of them: a lack of AA (anti-aliasing) means that to get superior visuals, 
 you have to run at higher resolutions. Fortunately the game performs well, so that is mostly a 
 non-issue. Second, missions can get a bit repetitive - not on the order of Assassin's Creed, but 
 just repetitive enough to make you notice.
  
  Pros: some of the most entertaining, pulse-jumping, and immersive gameplay to be seen in years. 
 I can't say enough about Dead Space - it grabs you, pulls you in, and won't let you go until you're 
 done. Performance is smooth and scales well, visuals are excellent, animation is very smooth and 
 natural, and the audio is superb.
  
  Dead Space added itself to my personal top-ten list within the first hour it drew me in. Do yourself 
 a favor and pick up a copy - you won't be disappointed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  im played more than 200pc games. so i know what games are realy good and what game are boring or 
 just realy bad
  i allways buy those new pc games and try them 
  im almost played every new pc game.. so if i give 9-10 points its have to be a REALY good game 
 and u shoul buy it or even try it =)
  someone give games 9-10 points just to easyly, i give those points only for masterpieces..
  and 
 i dont write big review i give now only points and thats because my main language is not enghlis 
 so its brety hard to write good reviews.. Sory : (
  so my enghlis is not so good that i can tell every nice or bad things in games.. so i use only 
 points =)
  i hope everyone understand that i just try to give my own opinion those games whitout many words.. 
 
  and i think many player just look those numbers? ;) thx to undertanding me and good gaming
  
 
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  Graphic 8/10
  
  
  Sounds 9/10
  
  
  Gameplay 6/10
  
  
  Time Spent Playing
  5-10hour
  
  
  Difficulty
  medium
  
  
  Gamevalue 7/10
  
 
  nice creepy horror game whit great sounds and good looking textures... when the game coming out 
 theres Big problems whit mouse controlling... and many players disabointed. but theres fix for 
 that problem and game start to shine.. this is for u if u like horror games ;) its more than Average 
 Third person Action game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goreaffection_i
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 8:08 am PT
Review:  ' Twinkle twinkle little star, how i wonder what you are! ' From the moment the game starts to 
 the moment it ends, you will be totally awed by the amazing artwork and breathtaking visual effects 
 of this game. Space has never been portrayed in a game the way Dead Space has done it. From walking 
 on walls to playing futuristic basketball, Dead Space has created a whole new world.
  But hey thats only the flashy part. In comes Necromorphs. True they remind us of aliens from The 
 Thing and Black site, but they makes it all up with their scariness! This is a games that come 
 alive at night! Plenty of blood and body parts in this game for ur satisfaction. Sound effects 
 are terrifying! The way Issac the protagonist is butchered when ur life runs out, would keep you 
 cautious all the time in the game so that you could avoid those visions! But eventually you will 
 have to face them! 
  Without revealing anything about the plot, i can say that the Bosses and the ending of this game, 
 will keep you begging for a sequel. Overall this game would have been nothing short of legendary, 
 had it not been for bad controls and mediocre storyline. Keep this one in your must buy list! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seba_blacknight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Cool enough. The graphics are fine; the monsters are scary enough.... They have a good detail level. 
 The bad part is that they are not very varied. They tend to be monotonous after some hours of game 
 play. 
  The market and the bench are two cool ideas, i like the weapons, although they are not that realistic, 
 but that's fine. The armor improvement is also a detail that could've been better. Every enhance 
 you make to the armor it adds more metal bands over the arms and legs..... That's not very ingenious; 
 except from the last suit, the one you unlock when you finish the game.
  There is a cool sound and visual effect when you are on the open space, no gravity, the noises 
 are silenced, like if you where under the water.
  A very good game with good horror sci-fi shooter aspect. It worths to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absinthe-abuser
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I was buying Far Cry 2 and GTA 4 this Month, so my Budget for new Games was pretty low.
  Anyway, i dont regret i bought this one too.
  
  The main-reason why this Game is so damn cool, 
 is simply the Atmosphere.
  I got the Game yesterday and this night i already had a crazy Dream about one of my Girlfriends 
 lying in the Bathroom with mutated Limps spreading out of her Chest XD
  So, lets get to the Game:
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ 
  
  The Graphics are good, but i ve got to say, like in any other Review i made, theyre not as stunning 
 as Crysis (cause of the f**kin Crysis my graphical Claims are sooo high^^)
  
  When i first saw some Screenshots of this Game, the Monsters didnt look scary and a little conventional... 
 almost like in Silent Hill 3 or something. I was totally wrong...
  
  The Monsters are fast, loud and dangerous. Not slowly moving Zombies like in almost all Survival-Horror-Games...
 
  And although u got really powerful Weapons and Stuff u will still feel weak against them. The 
 only Game comparable in this way is AVP2. 
  At first i shot the Monsters directly to the Head, with almost no Effect... This is where the Game 
 gets different from others... shoot for the Legs, slow them down, cut their Arms so they cant 
 attack. Even dismembering some Human Bodies (which lie around everywhere in this Game) is useful, 
 cause after that they cant be necro-morphed anymore.
  
  Next thing which truly does a lot to the Atmosphere is the Sound....
  I remember a Room, with 
 some mummified Fetuses in it. There was gentle screaming of a Baby and a Lullaby in the Background... 
 
  After that a mutated Baby shocked me so damn hard, that i had to pause the Game and get me a Beer 
 ^^
  
  So why "only" 9.0?
  
  Cause of the lack in Variety  and at the End an Asteroid-Colony) 
 and the balancing:
  
  Some early parts i felt pretty hard (especially the ones in Zero-G cause i got really confused 
 by walking on Walls and the Ceiling... The Monsters where not that confused XD) and the very last 
 Boss of this Game is so damn easy to kill... I didnt have to use one Health-pack, on normal Difficulty, 
 for this one. On the other Side, the Tentacle-Shooting Babies are a little too strong in my opinion.
 
  Although it seems like these little Things are compensated with dynamic Drops and Items. If u 
 are low on Health or Health-Packs the next thing ull find will surely be a Healthpack. And i only 
 found Ammo for Weapons which i bought in the Shop... I dunno if there is a script for it... it 
 couldve also been a coincidence ^^
  
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
  
  So. If you like the 
 Survival-Horror-Plot, Splatter Movies, or simply shooting Games, youve gotta buy this one!
  
  If ur easy to scare, hate Violence in Games or Movies or if ure underage.... stay miles away.... 
 ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I really had lots of fun with this game, even when I was sometimes scared about some bosses they 
 were all easily beatable, I appreciate that!
  
  But then again it comes to some problems with the mouse that you can easily solve buying a new 
 one from 800 dpi or higher as I did, and a lot of weird crashing for virtual console something.... 
 even when that crashing got me more terrified than the bosses, i dont appreciate that!
  
  Again please turn of the vertical sync or forced in your card controls and turn it off in the game, 
 it will fix some other crashes and mouse issues.
  
  But going back to the game, really they payed lots of attention to the detail, the nasty details, 
 the horror details, and of course the graphic details.
  
  You can watch the movie as I did before playing the game, but if you are locking for a more deep 
 history into it your not gonna find it in the game, maybe they are keeping it for a sequel. 
 
  
  so well next time if you do a sequel please pay more attention to the mouse and video ports, and 
 I will absolutely buy it, and also don't make it a xbox360 game pad game, there are people that 
 use and want to keep using other good controllers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jogeoluz
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a horror game starring Isaac Clarke, an engineer sent by his team to investigate 
 the USG Ishimura after a distress call. As you investigate the ill-fated mining ship, you realize 
 that something has gone horribly wrong. The ship has been infested with necromorphs, a diverse 
 group of undead creatures waiting to kill any human being and transform them into one of them. 
 There are mining tools that you can use as weapons including the plasma cutter and the line gun. 
 However, you must realize that these necromorphs absorb so much damage to the torso that it is 
 a waste of ammo unless you try to carve up the limbs. Headshots are useless. It is important to 
 learn how to strategically attack each undead creature because they all have different abilities. 
 There must be at least a dozen types of necromorphs. Some necromorphs can be killed only by firing 
 at their orange sacs, such as drag tentacles and the suicidal exploders.
  The corridors are spooky and are not new to the horror genre, but a break in the monotony occurs 
 when you must traverse zero gravity corridors and cargo bays. This is when gravity boots come into 
 play and must safely cross zero gravity rooms. There is still tension in zero gravity areas because 
 the undead creatures are lurking. In addition, some zero gravity areas require the use of oxygen 
 from the suit-this adds to the tense atmosphere. The RIG suit can be upgraded at the store kiosks 
 scattered around the ship.
  You will notice from the beginning that there is no HUD (Heads-up display) . The lack of an HUD 
 is good because it provides for a more immersive experience. It makes you feel more like you are 
 part of the creepy atmosphere. You can access the inventory screen by using your RIG suit that 
 projects it in the form of a hologram. The same goes for the audio and text logs that update you 
 on the story a la Bioshock. The accessing of the inventory screen, audio and text logs do not provide 
 a break in the action because the necromorphs will still attack you. 
  The pace of the game rarely goes from tense to dull, partly because it is difficult to get lost. 
 If you do not know which way to go you can press a key that will draw line providing a direction 
 for you at all times. Even when a corridor seems empty there is an uneasy feeling that an undead 
 creature will break out of a vent or attack you from behind. One of the more potentially troublesome 
 creatures is the infector, a necromorph that can reanimate corpses so that they can attack you. 
 If you don't kill the infector soon enough it will turn several corpses into the undead. Thus, 
 you will have to face an army of necromorphs. Facing too many necromorphs at once can be a burden 
 because ammo is at a premium. You have to learn to conserve ammo because credits are at a premium 
 too. The bosses are gigantic and impressive, requiring you to find their weak spots for survival.
 
  One complaint I have relates to the awkward movements of the mouse. The mouse can be a problem 
 in close-quarters combat and against the drag tentacle. While being dragged by a tentacle, you 
 have to aim accurately at its weak spot with minimal ammo to survive. I eventually got used to 
 the mouse, but the mouse movement can be improved. Some people may complain about all the backtracking 
 that is required in the game to fix key components in order to complete a mission. I do have much 
 of a problem with all the backtracking because the environment remains tense. However, it does 
 make you feel like the ship's handyman after a while and you wonder if the team members giving 
 you orders have ulterior motives.
  Dead Space as a whole is a classic horror game that I would recommend to anyone but the squeamish. 
 The authentically creepy atmosphere, the diverse number of necromorphs requiring various combat 
 strategies, and a unique interface make this one of the best of 2008.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will_518
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:54 am PT
Review:  Once a (male) friend of my jumped on me from behind, I instinctively turned around, and totally 
 out of coincidence we kissed. Scary? yes. Frightening? yes. Disturbing? absolutely. BUT, it's NOT 
 a horror, it was just a cheap scare, like putting spiders in a girl's pencil case. And that, is 
 excatly the kind of "Horror" Dead Space is.
  
  STORYLINE:
  
  In case you didn't know already, the protagonist wears a metal suit with a metal helmet which covers 
 his entire face, so you can't see him at all. It feels like you are playing as a robot, which destroys 
 the pretenses the game makes towards horror, because your robot protagonist is totally devoid of 
 feeling, well it's a robot.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  I don't know how it handles on the consoles, but on the PC, it's rubbish. The controls are rigid 
 and un-responsive, the camera moves wierdly, and you can't quick save. Oh, the Gravity gun was 
 the most unnecessary feature in a video game, ever... You will get so frustrated with it you'll 
 want to rip your own eyes out like that guy in Event Horizon.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  The graphics is good, but it's more like Far Cry 2 than Crysis, i. e. it's very good by console 
 standards, but not the best graphics on the PC. The atmosphere is strange, because I've never been 
 on a spaceship before, so I didn't identify with any of the enivronments in the game. They'd have 
 done a better job setting it in an old abandoned Soviet industrial city instead. 
  
  CONCLUSIONS:
  
  For the PC, Dead Space was just fail. A horror game with no emotions is like 
 a pizza without topping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racebelly
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I was a little skeptical about this game going in. After about a half hour with this I was hooked. 
 This and Mass Effect are my favorites of last year.
  
  CONS: The conrtols take some getting used to as the aiming isn't as percise as most FP games. The 
 3rd person camera can occasionally cause issues in the heat of battle (although no very often) . 
 This is clearly designed for console controllers.
  
  PROS: It really feels like a high production value game. I had no issues with bugs or crashing 
 at all! In fact I don't think there are any patches for this game. Pretty amazing in this day and 
 age. The story was nicely told throughout the game. It had a lot of similarities with past great 
 games. But, the one I noticed the most was System Shock 2 (which happens to be one of the greatest 
 PC games of all time) . The suit and weapon upgrades as well as the overall story stand out the 
 most. But, also that constant feeling that something bad is about to happen just makes it all that 
 much more immersive.
  
  Overall an excellent game. If you are reading this you are wasting your time... GO BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar_Bladema
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Most horror games scare me to the point of putting down the controller and walking off, never to 
 speak of them again. There are a few exceptions: F. E. A. R., Resident Evil 4, Silent Hill, and Call 
 of Cthulu. What these games have in common are one thing, a gameplay so satisfying and a storyline 
 so engaging, I do not want to put it down, no matter the scares or thrills. Dead Space is now added 
 to my list of them, as I have read and watched the comics, and viewed the movie, so it is only 
 fitting I should get the best out of all three: The game.
  
  Dead Space puts you in the role of Isaac Clarke, a silent engineer who was sent with a small team 
 to answer a distress beacon on the USG Ishimura. Bad news: They crash, and to make it worse, barely 
 five minutes in and your seperated from your crew by inhuman creatures called Necromorphs. These 
 things are part alien, part zombie, and all terror. What makes them terrifying is that X amount 
 of bullets just will not kill them, you have to cut off their limbs in a satisfying decapacitation 
 method. What is worse is they will swarm, feign death, and sometimes take new stances and tactics 
 depending on which limb you cut off. Thankfully, you have an arsenal of engineering tools and abilities 
 to help in your fight against them. The game looks beautiful, the levels can range from clausterphobic 
 to wide open, and all are just as terrifying, for they can come from anywhere.
  
  The story line is just as captivating and intriguing as BioShock. You get your info through video, 
 audio, and text logs. To add to the immersion is that except for the pause button, there is no 
 true pause. Your inventory, map, and anything else is projected from a Hologram. The ammo of your 
 weapon is projected just above it, and your health and... magic powers bar is on your back. Now 
 you read right, but it is not magic powers per say, it is more sci-fi awesomeness. You get to slow 
 down things and pick others up.
  
  My only problems with the game is that your footstomp seems to emit a shockwave, for boxes even 
 as far as two shelves up tremble and crumble, the zero grav sequences sometimes disorientate you, 
 and there are way too many save points for a horror game. Like BioShock with the Vita-Chambers 
 that revive you at no penalty except for health and mana, this game has save points pretty much 
 every other room. I even encountered two rooms adjacent to each other with save points in them. 
 It takes the suspense out of things when you run low on health and have to make a run to a save 
 point, now I can just walk to the one next door. To add to that are plentiful checkpoints that 
 happen after major things. I also have a problem with the objective finder, it takes some challenge 
 out of the game and even though it points to your objective, sometimes it takes the scenic route 
 instead of the direct path.
  
  (Spoiler Start)
  I also dislike a moment where you mount a turret and shoot at asteroids. It is a nostalgic look 
 back to old space shooter games, but too many asteroids come at once and just make it annoying.
 
  (Spoiler End)
  
  All in all, Dead Space is a terrifying package, with replayability, good story, and can stack up 
 against the best of them. Hope the sequels keep with beat and are as good as this one.
  
  Replayability: A- (It is a linear affair, but with a New Game+ mode, new costumes, and higher difficulties 
 you could go for another run or two)
  Gameplay: A+ (Plays like RE4 with a boost in some areas that needed boosting)
  Sound: A+ (Sound 
 draws one and and keeps them with a haunting soundtrack, and the noises of them scurrying round 
 the vents)
  Graphics: A (Not the best, but pretty damn good and with reasonable requirements. The shading of 
 the corridors and the look of Necromorphs are truely an artwork)
  Controls: A (A little sluggish and confusing at times, but overall work to their ability)
  Fear 
 Factor: A+ (Even after the terror has worn down, you will still be a little paranoid and have a 
 feeling that something is stalking you. Also, unlike most horror games that give up scaring you 
 and building tension about 1/4 the way through, this one did not.)
  Overall: A (BioShock, prepare for competition.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpjazzman220
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: This game is pretty, its not Crysis, but its pretty. They are just right. The shadows 
 are dark and ominous, the lighting is very good. The effects are amazing. Just wait until you see 
 a corpse start bleeding in zero-grav. Its beautiful. 8/10
  
  Sound: The sound is amazing. It makes me jump when I wear my headset. I can hear everything, I 
 can hear things that aren't there, and that's the scary part. It is really immersive, and it works 
 perfectly. 10/10
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay feels alot like Resident Evil 4, except in space. That's a good thing for 
 people who liked RE4 and a bad thing for people who didn't. The dismemberment engine is beautiful, 
 and it works well. I especially like the weapon upgrade system. The best thing is the lack of ammo 
 and health, it really makes for a survival-horror game. The zero-grav is amazing and innovative, 
 I have never seen anything like it before. The puzzles, while not very challenging to complete, 
 are somewhat difficult to figure out. The boss battles are quite challenging also. 8/10
  
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Story: The game doesn't have the greatest story, but it is good. In a few 
 places, it throws you for a loop. The last hour or two of the game are the best story-wise. 8/10
 
  
  Overall: This game was amazing, and I recommend it to everyone who is or isn't thinking about buying 
 it. I enjoyed it very much as have many of my friends. Buy it, it is amazing. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 10:45 am PT
Review:  After being disappointed over and over again with many of the recent games, I was glad to come 
 across this game and give it a try. It's cool. The only problem I found with this game was a strange 
 audio bug, which was no biggie. The graphics are pretty good, the art is crazy and the encounters 
 have a very nice feel. The new ideas, the team used, in animations work very well in the this game. 
 Everything from the way your dude walks and moves, to the way the aliens attack and the way you 
 attack them is outstanding. You obtain the feeling that your in the fight and can pretty much do 
 what you please with your abilities and weapons. Once you are able to get used to using the controls 
 or having them set up the way you would like to use them, the games fighting sequence is fun to 
 say the least. It was very refreshing to play a game of this nature with so many new ideas that 
 work well. Only downfall I could find with this one is, I wish there was more, which is a good 
 thing I guess. Graphics, sound and the gameplay are all good. Pick this one up if your bored and 
 need a new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wings_008
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:52 am PT
Review:  when i first saw the trailer and the game play of the game i thought it got to be one of those 
 ''all flash no substance'' games
  but after five minute onto the game you start to really appreciate it, considering its publisher 
 EA
  The game has one of the best graphics in the business, its not crysis but still very crisp and 
 sharp and doesn't eat-up your system it can run very smoothly even on old PC's.
  The game play is the centerpiece of the game its mind-blowingly amazing where the sound effects 
 like distant screams and the occasional foot steps in the above ventilation system combined with 
 the deep story and some well placed signs like "stay out!" written with blood totally suck you 
 into the game.
  but what i really like about the game is that its not repeatative and just like what Guns'n roses 
 said "It gets worse here every day" so one time one alien from in front, next time three , the 
 one after a new type of alien with the good old ones a third a new one with a scary cut scene 
 
  The weapons of the game are cool and fun the first weapons are crap but in middle of the game 
 you'll lay your hand on some cool and handy weapons like a beam slicer that send a ray that slices 
 anything and a mine thrower how about that!!
  Another great aspect of the game that it keep you on your nerves as long as your playing it the 
 types of aliens are scary there not like doom 3, they are a humans-transformed creatures so seeing 
 something you know makes it more believable and more scary 
  All in all the game is just a must buy, its not complicated it delivers the story and the action 
 in a unique and deep way the story is straight forward, and better yet what can be more fun than 
 shooting creepy Aliens! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulburner88
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:14 am PT
Review:  You can`t put together System Shock, Doom 3 and the latest Resident Evil, and expect me to like 
 it. Throw a crappy story and there you are, it could have been better if the levels were not all 
 that monotonously designed, and the "bosses" could have been a lot tougher. Good graphics and great 
 sound cant save a game.
  
  Graphics: 8/10 Floating blood looks great in low-g environment
  Design: 5/10 Monotonous level 
 design
  Sound: 9/10 All creatures sound great
  Music: 9/10 It really fits with the action
  Game Play: 8/10 Pretty good
  Storyline: 6/10 This 
 is the most important part of a game that has been neglected here. The ending could have been much 
 better.
  Innovation: 5/10 Jumping through levels in low-g environment is something new and fun
  
  Well, 
 as you see, all this result in an almost straight seven (7) .
  Not much to say anymore about this game, it is not that bad, but sure it hasn`t showed me enough 
 great things to be a good game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysteryGuy2
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:00 pm PT
Review:  In Space, No One Hears You Screaming. The New EA Redwood Shores Production Best Selling Title "Dead 
 Space" features a new experience of horror third-person shooting gameplay.
  
  Storyline
  You play as Isaac Clarke (named after the science fiction writers Isaac Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke) . Joining 
 a small team of 5 engineers, you are tasked to answer an SOS call requested from the biggest and 
 meanest mining cruiser, the USG Ishimura. You landed on the flight deck of the USG Ishimura, yes, you 
 land but emergency landed due to strange magnetic forces. You will then be separated with your team 
 members and are tasked to series of objectives which are needed to ensure you stay alive in the 
 USG Ishimura and get out of there in one piece. The Storyline is quite impressive. There are lots 
 of irony in the story where thing's don't always be good on your side. Isaac Clarke not only travel 
 to the USG Ishimura to do dirty repair work, apparently his girlfriend Nicole Brennan, a medical 
 expert on board the USG Ishimura sent a message requesting help from him.
  
  Gameplay
  Dead Space is revolutionised with real time action experience. The HUD is no longer the old HUD 
 as it took most of the screen space. Redwood Shores made the HUD as part of the armour. The glowing 
 light on his spine represents the health bar, the ammo clip is shown when then gun is aimed, and 
 the statis is the circular bar on the right side of his spine. All quest, inventory, and logs are 
 displayed through holographic projection. Traversing through vacuum will display the air timer on 
 his neck.
  
  Dead Space not only revolutionised the HUD but how you would defeat your enemy's. The concept of 
 "shoot the head" is no longer useful in Dead Space. Most horror games like Resident Evil or Left 
 4 Dead needs dislodgment of the head to ensure the death of zombie. However, in Dead Space, you need 
 to dismember your foes. Yes, dismember them in terms of blowing their limbs, legs, head, tentacles and 
 anything that can be dismembered from their abdomen.
  
  In Dead Space, you may find credits scattering in the USG Ishimura which can be used to purchase 
 weapons, health kits, statis packs, ammo packs, armour upgrades and power nodes. To purchase ever higher 
 level item such as Large Health Kit, Level 4 Rig (armour) or Large Air Canister, you need to search 
 for systematics in the USG Ishimura. Once you download them at stores, they are available in stores 
 and you can purchase them. Isaac's Rig and weapons can be upgraded with power nodes. Approach any 
 bench and you can attach power nodes to upgrade your weapons or armour. Weapons can be upgrade to 
 shoot faster and stonger whereas armour can be upgraded to store more air and increase health bar.
 
  
  Graphics And Sounds
  Dead Space is powered by Unreal 3 engine, which is the most utilised and powerful so far. From Isaac 
 himself to the creature's and the enviroment around the USG Ishimura are rendered to perfection 
 as if the enviroment are real. The Lighting effects are undeniably incredible. The ambience, fear 
 and feeling of loneliness can be felt when playing.
  
  The impressive thing about Dead Space is the sound effects. Every creature has it's distinctive 
 noise. Their terrifying noise brings terror and shivers down your spine. You are able to hear them 
 but you are clueless on where are they going to ambush you. If that's not scaring you, occasional 
 whisper's and weird noises echoing the corridors and faint "Twinkle Twinkle Little Star" (modified 
 lyrics) can be heard which can bring fear to the most "ice cold" person.
  
  With many professional's working together to produce Dead Space, this game is surely the best of 
 the best horror game ever created in 2008. Also, if you are worried of the required performance of 
 the computer, Dead Space can be played on a mid-range PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickyMechanic
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I've played my share of scary games. And I absolutely LOVE them. I Love the scare, I love the fact 
 that a game can give you chills. Although... sadly with this game I was very disapointed with how 
 I was lead to believe this was the scariest game ever made so far. I personally found this not 
 to be true. However it could be because I went very slow playing it nothing really 'jumped' out 
 at me and scared me. I thought it was a fantastic game, the story line wasn't boring, it had a 
 great twist to it, it doesn't end when you think it's about to. But I found F. E. A. R to be a much 
 more frightning game. I had a hard time playing that game in the dark. But it gave me far more 
 chills then dead space. 
  But I believe that in no way was this the scariest game ever created. It is scary and still makes 
 you jump at some points. But I antisipated it to be horrifying but was sadly let down. Other then 
 that I think this was a fantastic game and even though i beat it in two days I'm still playing 
 it cuz after you beat it you get to keep all your weapons and start over! Makes upgrading and making 
 your weapons kick ass a lot easier!!! Great game overall. It was really cool and I had a lot of 
 fun playing it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of horror games and reading dead space's rave reviews i definitely had a lot of 
 expectations from the games and it definitely lived up to it. Great graphics, insanely haunting 
 audio, tonnes of startling moments and a well executed gameplay mechanic make dead space a master 
 piece, probably the best original title that i have played from 2008. Dead Space doesnt feature 
 novel gameplay objectives and does involve backtracking but the developers executed all this pretty 
 damn well, these issues hardly seem to matter once you get reeled in by the game, it has a pretty 
 good storyline, the details being broken out to you via text and audio logs quite like the PDA 
 system in Doom 3 or the telephone messages in FEAR but dead space manages to do it in a better 
 and in a much clear way than any of those. The game doesnt feature a typical HUD so all you can 
 see is just your player and the surroundings, one of the reasons why dead space can really pull 
 you in. Dead space is easily the bloodiest and goriest ever made featuring a very uncoventional 
 gameplay style that involves dismembering enemies with mining and engineering tools. The game has 
 plenty of "Holy S***!!" moments. Boss Fights are relatively easier than some other nasty ingame 
 moments.. bottomline, if you love survival horror games or just plain horror, you're bound to love 
 Dead Space 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dragon_Wolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 4:44 am PT
Review:  An all around excellent game that nails all what makes a survival horror game or a horror movie 
 so fun and exciting.
  
  The monsters, the intelligent HUD design, the environments, the sound effects design ( top notch 
 ) ..... etc etc, everything is made the right way, you will feel isolated and alone in a very hostile 
 environments, even the characters that contact you through the game rarely meets you face to face 
 ... so all the time you are on your own with no one to watch your back.
  
  And while the objectives might get tiresome at the last third of the game ( Issac get this, Issac 
 fix this, .. etc etc ) but it still manages to be fun since every task even if similar to past 
 tasks requires you to face different conditions and different enemies so it works out somehow, 
 probably the worst moment is when you receive the task but carrying it out is still fun nonetheless. 
 
  
  Then we have the vile necro monsters and hazards variety, mixing and matching those results in 
 very intense and heart pounding encounters, not only do you have to fight monsters but you have 
 to fight them in Zero-G and in Vacuum or even both, and the monsters aren't cheap-shots either, 
 they are very vigilant and varied ( small, large, exploding, fast, slow, wall climbing .. etc etc 
 ) , you will need to use all you abilities ( stasis and kinetics ) and a variety of weapons to fend 
 them off and have any chance of survivial.
  
  Add to that few mini-games plus upgradable items and you have an excellent, replayable, immersive 
 and very well crafted horror game, probably one of the best games i played in a very long time, 
 now i just can't wait for DS2, if it built up upon all the good things in DS and fixed all its 
 minor problems no doubt it will be a mindbogglingly excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSmiLeZx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Here is a quick review of Dead Space.
  
  Graphics- 10/10
  
  The graphics in this game are absolutely stunning. The ship, monsters, and scary rooms in this 
 game are really extraordinary and well done. It will give you a unforgettable experience.
  
  Sound- 10/10
  
  The sound in this game is actually really good. You can hear vents busting 
 open, things exploding, and monsters lurking around every corner.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  
  Some people say that the way the aiming works in this game is absolutely horrible, but I think 
 that it is perfect. I feel like the over-the-shoulder aiming just adds more to the horror sense 
 of the game. Also all of the items and menus are built into Issac's suit so there is no bringing 
 up another screen to stop the action. (This also makes it scarier because the enemies won't stop 
 coming if you need to heal.)
  
  Story- 8/10
  
  The story is decent. While you are chillin out in space the Ishimura sends you a horrifying video 
 transmission of a person asking for help, then being mauled by some creature. After that you go 
 in to help them and find out the whole shop has been taken over by aliens. There are some parts 
 in the story that makes no sense *SPOILER* Like how a whole ship of soldiers that come to help 
 is killed by just one alien in a escape pod.....
  
  Length- 10/10
  
  Great. Lasted about 20-40 hours or so.
  
  Overall- 10/10
  
  This is one of the best PC 
 games out there, imo. The graphics are breathtaking, great gameplay and menu HUD, and tons of scares. 
 If your looking for a Shooter/Horror game I'm telling you, PICK THIS UP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Coming into 2008, Dead Space had a reasonable, if not, a lot of hype. When I first read about it, 
 I was hooked. A new sci-fi survival horror game?! The PC version was announced after the consoles 
 and I knew I had to get it. EA was really pushing this new franchise with a prequel comic book 
 miniseries from Image Comics and a prequel film called Dead Space Downfall. Is this game worth 
 all this attention? ABSOLUTELY! Dead Space is one of the most scariest, immersive, and atmospheric 
 games of its genre. If Doom 4 stands any chance, id Software better take a look at this game or 
 else they'll get owned. You play as space engineer Isaac Clarke (reference to Isaac Asimov and 
 Arthur C. Clarke) who's sent in with a small team to repair the planet cracker ship known as the 
 USG Ishimura. Planet cracker ships "crack" open planets and strip it of all resources and minerals, 
 then ship this all back to Earth. You'll know that something is very wrong when you enter the ship. 
 Soon you're separated from your group and face an alien enemy called the Necromorphs, who reanimate 
 corpses into horrific monstrosities. Clarke must get to the bottom of what is going and find his 
 love, Nicole, before he becomes a Necromorph himself. The story is actually well-written for a 
 horror game, though I wanted the protagonist to actually speak so we could identify with his plight. 
 Graphics look stunning with amazing detail on Clarke's suit. The game takes place mostly in interior 
 environments but it never suffers from repetition. There is a large sense of scale on the ship 
 as you walk through the bloody corridors, quiet flight lounges and cafeterias. You'll also encounter 
 survivors who have been driven insane, adding to the immersion factor. Sound is the best, as you'll 
 hear every little noise in the game and then swiftly turn around to see what it is, only to find 
 nothing. You feel safe again and just when you're sure that nothing is following you, you're attacked! 
 Many of the weapons in the game aren't weapons besides the pulse rifle; they're actually mining 
 equipment. Since Clarke is an engineer, he can use power nodes to upgrade his suit and his weapons. 
 Gaining new items requires you to explore and find schematics, which are then added to the shop. 
 There's also a slowness to Clarke's movement, which is deliberate because he is not a soldier. 
 You'll also encounter zero gravity areas requiring you to hop around (Right Mouse + Control) and 
 have 2 special abilities: Stasis (slows down objects or enemies) and kinesis (it's like the Force!) . 
 There's also no traditional HUD in the game. Everything is incorporated into the suit via holograms. 
 The health bar is the bar on your back and the semi-circle is your available stasis energy. The 
 amount of ammo left is a small display on the weapon. The PC controls work well enough but to get 
 a faster response time, disable vertical sync. The camera sometimes obscures enemies and you won't 
 know someone's behind you until they hit you. I also encountered a problem where my monitor would 
 lose its signal after 15 minutes of playing but managed to solve it by putting my video card speeds 
 at stock (thanks to the friendly forum members at EA!) . Yes, there is DRM but you won't use up 
 an installation if you reinstall on the same PC. Dead Space is an amazing game that'll take you 
 around 15 hours to complete. This is true terror! Better bring a pair of diapers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiSaZuL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  First off I'm no big fps fan..... yeah I do love old school fps titles like half-life old quakes 
 and so on but I'm not a big expert so take this as you want. Then again its not a pure pfs.... 
 its a mix of fps/survival and some rpg elements
  
  Entire review is from pc gamer standpoint.
  
  It is well optimized and not resource heavy game 
 but it does deliver some very impressive graphics. Controls are again very nice and don't bother 
 you at all its not a disfigured port I'm so used to seeing nowdays.
  
  Gameplay is hard to describe.... things pick up very suddenly from just walking around looking 
 at fancy space ship all of a sudden you run for your life. The story is nothing unique.... avp 
 for instance but its engaging and keeps you guessing all the way to the end movie. Levels at first 
 seem very similar except for portions but the further you get in the story the more intresting 
 and unique they get. Boss fights are great YEP there are boss fights and they are great. Weapons.... 
 while there aren't a million of them they are very different and the ability to upgrade any given 
 weapon improving different aspects of it gives it even more variety.
  All in all its a very engaging game and leaves an extremely satisfied feeling when your done. It's 
 a great survival fps.. probably best I ever seen but thats just me as far as horror aspect i can't 
 say ..... it wasn't all that scary to me I still thing the best titles in that department are very 
 old school, I haven't played a game that made me jump of my chair in about 5 years now
  
  There's a re playability value too... getting all armors all journal entries to reveal entire story 
 and such.
  
  all in all i havent enjoyed a game this much since probably half-life 2 heh..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sess1on
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:31 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is a unique title that while cliche, predictable, and repetitive, has great polish and 
 potential that is worth at least one play through by even a casual gamer.
  
  First off, this game should have been called "2001: Sunshine Aliens from Solaris on the Event Horizon." 
 Nothing in regards to the narrative is original here, nor has any depth what-so-ever. I honestly 
 do not understand where all the praise is coming from for the story and writing. It is like the 
 developers said, "let's take all the great science fiction films and combine them into a third 
 person horror game." Do game critics not watch movies? There are strikingly familiar elements and 
 aspects that the game borderline plagiarizes off of well known sci-fi films.
  
  Secondly, the game can become quite repetitive and predictable real fast. The gameplay can be summarized 
 in the following run on sentence. You get off tram, something is wrong, you need to fix something, 
 you fight your way through hordes of aliens to the fix, you fix, you get back on tram, repeat.
 
  
  The game, at times, can be quite frustrating too. During certain chapters, you're asked to complete 
 various tasks in zero gravity. At first it is a pretty fun experience. But fun gradually turns 
 to frustrating. Trying to complete an annoying task in an already disorienting zero gravity environment 
 while they throw endless waves of aliens at you (and you hope you don't run out of ammo) can be 
 frustrating to ever the most patient people.
  
  Despite its flaws, though, the game has polish and potential. The art direction, level design, 
 sound design, and interface are all phenomenal. The game's engine is both very beautiful and very 
 well optimized accompanied by top-notch atmosphere. But even these great elements are spoiled by 
 the game's flaws.
  
  Dead Space is not a bad game per-se, it is just nothing we haven't seen before. Technically, there 
 is much praise to be had for this game. But as a whole, the game is receiving a lot of praise it 
 doesn't deserve. All the things Dead Space does well isn't enough to carry its poor, paper-thin 
 cliche plot, repetitiveness, and predictability into the realm of memorable masterpiece, but it 
 sure is worth at least one play though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrTVBR
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is one of the made games shadiest already. Cost not to say that some producers had visited 
 morgues, observing corpses of truth, fatal victims of accidents, and things of horribleness than 
 if can imagine, everything so that the game was most real possible in its part ofterror" , that 
 is, the sanguinary part of carnage and deaths of possible. E they had obtained! Dead Space has 
 so realistic and frightful scenes that can move away most sensible. Clearly that this tends to 
 be positive for the game, because the censorship is even 18 years, and the white public is not 
 necessarily the people most sensible. In the generality, Dead Space is above average, with a sanguinary 
 terror, extremely visual of most beautiful, one engine that for its weight, wheel in PCs theoretically 
 very well older, and an innovative navigability. It will be plus a surmounting of success of the 
 EA? It seems that yes, since speculations say that this is the first one of that they will come. 
 If you are terror fan and like to feel scary to crap in pants off, Dead Space you were made for 
 you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusmartin23
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game it makes DOOM 3 look like mario brothers. Where to start this game has so many niche 
 elements. I had the chance to watch the movie before I played the game and o'boy am I happy I did.
 
  
  +The story is awesome every bit of it all SciFi and no Fantasy.
  +The game is fps but you can still manage to see the body of the player without it bothering you, 
 as a matter of fact it enhances the game play a bit providing one or two blind spots. To be able 
 to see aliens attacking you from behind is all worth it. 
  +No loading screens as you move from maps only with chapters.
  
  
  -If you die it takes really 
 long to reload.
  -No quick save but saving points.
  -Crappy ending screen only a single ending.
  
  
  Wishlist:
  That it had more guns and a 
 different armor.
  More endings!! c'mon we are not in the 90's.
  
  ---- My opinion is water down so I dont get punished by gamespot admins and their sponsors. Although 
 I only play adult games. ---- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Overall Dead Space provides entertainment, but the enjoyment it does provides is moderately sauteed 
 in moments that do nothing but aggravate.
  
  THE BAD: 
  
  -Clumsy controls that take half the game to get used too (Doesn't matter if you use a 360 controller 
 or key/mouse) .
  
  -Redundant boss type fights that usually consist of providing aggravation.
  
  -Load times after 
 getting axed are terrible. It takes longer for this game to load after you die, than it takes for 
 Vista to load on my computer. Absolutely destroys game immersion as you sit and wait 30 plus seconds 
 for the game to reload after you get whipped.
  
  -Graphics are kind of weak, but serviceable. Could of definately been better.
  
  -Bad inventory/map/objectives 
 screen design.
  
  -Player can't jump over objects. The only time you can get vertical is when you are in zero g.
 
  
  -Not enough ammo.
  
  -No health stations. Only med packs.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  -Upgrading weapons, suit, etc is fun and nice to be able to do.
  
  -Decent story, although 
 heavily cliche.
  
  -Nice pace to the game, not to fast, not too slow. I suppose if the pace where faster, the game 
 wouldn't be playable because of the clumsy control scheme.
  
  -Great sound (voice acting/weapons/ambience) .
  
  -Great atmoshere.
  
  -Fairly long single 
 player campaign.
  
  Dead Space is a good game. It does have its short comings, but overall it is good. Expect some 
 frustration with certain "moments" in the game that will leave you scratching your head wondering 
 why the developers go out of their way to frustrate you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortis1982
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  The story is great, but this game is full of gimmicks, first you have dismemberment...... it's a 
 good idea but you can still pump enough rounds using any guns and still get the kill with out dismembering 
 them. RE4 was the same way. I could pump 8 plasma rounds into a Ganados as I could a vile from 
 dead space and still get the same result. the only difference is the STORY!!!!.... Which was great. 
 I followed this game for almost two years before it came out and my frist trip through it was wow 
 this is just like RE4. Almost every review has some sort of reference to "This is not RE4 in space". 
 HAHAHAHA..... it is. The gravity jumping is a gimmick, granted you can jump into space. The death 
 scenes are almost the same. Depending on your health and position you could watch a gruesome death 
 of Leon....... Same with Issac. Yea this is a big disappointment. Great story other than that nothing 
 we haven't seen before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mardinn
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  THIS game Is just godly AWESOME!!!
  Great Graphics
  Great Shooting
  Great Atmosphere!!
  I have such a crappy computer compared to the other guys...
  I am playing it on 10-13 maybe 15 
 fps not more... and I still enjoyed it still with everything on Low The graphics are AMAZING!!! 
 still I love the game but the only thing they have to do is to make a patch and fix the camera 
 because SOMETIMES NOT ALL THE TIMES like other punk asses reviews say that camera just completely 
 sucks... the camera is great but need some fixing this game is easier on the PC than the consoles 
 I really recommend it I who has a crappy PC should not enjoy it but I LOVED IT!! RECOMMEND IT!!!
 
  Everything is great and I hope you guys enjoy it more because u got better Computers and specs 
 and all that.... F. E. A. R. Is like kissing Dead Space's ass... so the last words are GREAT HORROR 
 SURVIVAL GAME!! EVERY BEST RELEASE BY EA BEST !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinto20
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Really short review:
  A really good game, the graphics if not the best they do the job pretty well, sound, works fine 
 for the jumping moments and the voices are good, the story is really good even though I expected 
 it to suck, this game will make you jump, maybe not like F. E. A. R. or something like that cuz those 
 are atmospheric games and this one is more like: OMFG that thing came out of nowhere!, this and 
 more makes this game worth playing, 
  
  Now the bad side, although it's only one thing it really makes you want to leave the game, the 
 aiming in this game really really sucks, u will miss at least 2 shots with normal enemies and it 
 really bothers me that a shooter this good has this kind of problems, maybe they'll fix it with 
 a patch or something, but till then it'll stay with an 8
  
  This game would have scored 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Every now and then I decide to spend a few bucks for a scary game and some of them do not dissapoint. 
 This game did not disappoint at all. The scare is geniune and somewhat linear. You can compare 
 this game to Doom 3 but this is different. The interior design of the complex is somewhat metallic 
 which is right for a space game inside a space ship. Enemy varieties where not that much considering 
 how long the game took me to complete. I just wish there was another way these creatures came at 
 me instead of jumping out of vents in the wall and sometimes just outright appearing right infront 
 of me. The narrative in the game is done with text logs and audio logs which has been done before 
 but the storyline is quite good. The whole idea of shooting the limbs to make a kill is not so 
 good. What should have been done is this: you shoot the body, it takes a long time to die but you 
 shoot the limbs, it takes a short time to die but I have to admit that the main purpose of the 
 game was to scare and it did it well
  
  The atmosphere is surprisingly good and those guys did not forget to put a torchlight. Technically 
 the game looks very good and consumes less RAM. The sound system is one of the best out there. 
 I have a 5.1 surround and it scares me a lot when im playing at night. Great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelofDeath365
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I started out playing this game at a buddy's house a while ago on the 360, and I liked it so much 
 got it for PC, though to be honest I was nervous because my computer isn't state of the art and 
 i wouldn't call myself a hardcore PC gamer by any means, but I can run most new games but with 
 detrimental aspecs to the preformance on higher visuals. But when I decided to run this on my laptop, 
 at 1200x800 Res, at full graphics, i was met with something surprising, no lag, and exellent visuals. 
 I ended up setting it to medium settings with anti-aliasing on because for some reason i actually 
 think it looks better that way. Some of the fills, lighting, and shading might have looked good 
 on the 360, but on my rig I feel it detracted from the game a little, it made everything blurry, 
 but the visuals are still stunning, especially hooked up via hdmi to my 47 inch lcd!
  
  Controls on the other hand... you've probably heard, but no worries, plug in a usb 360 controller, 
 and its pre-set to the xbox controls. This gives it far superior controls and saved it from being 
 knocked down about .5 points in my opinion. But anyways, visuals, and controls aside, this is an 
 immensly immersive game that will have you catching your breath whenever a necromorph jumps through 
 a vent (no matter how many times I play through the same scene) . Also, though a little more fun 
 to play on medium, if you want the full experience I reccomend hard, it adds a lot of challenge 
 and therefore you may be a tad more frightened when you find yourself surrounded by enemies. There 
 are plenty of upgrades and increasingly difficult enemies to keep you improving and the ending 
 will definately not dissapoint! (my friend nearly crapped himself, if you didn't find the ending 
 scary there's something wrong with you!)
  Definately pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karateguy1
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I love wierd ass shooters. BioShock, System Shock 2, Far Cry, F. E. A. R.... I've played them all. 
 I had very high hopes for Dead Space. 
  
  It is a great idea, a great concept, but there are WAY too many detractions to make it truly enjoyable. 
 Let's start with the unmappable keys. I HATE WASB controls and every time you try to remap them 
 it goes back to default. Add in the "checkpoint" save system, where you can't save anywhere except 
 at set save points, mix in a VERY odd 3/4 "over-the-shoulder" POV, and you have the formula for 
 an extremely distracting game. So distracting, that you actually lose the point of the game. All 
 of your concentration is on working your way through these road blocks, rather than actually enjoying 
 the experience of playing the game. Health stations are way too few and far betweem considering 
 the frequency of morph attacks, and your inventory is way too small to carry all of the items you 
 need. You're allowed 4 weapons and required to use things like Stasis and Kinesis modules, but 
 there isn't enough room to carry what you need to make them work. 
  
  It's a game that had a great concept on the drawing board, that didn't quite make it onto the playing 
 field.
  
  
  [EDIT]
  
  I've played this game for several more hours since my first review and the more I play it, the 
 more I hate it. Lack of health packs and a cornucopia of unkillable morphs results in death/restart, 
 death/restart, repeat ad nauseum. I'm playing this game on EASY!!!!!!!!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkmask1991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  From the moment you set foot on Ishimura, is pretty obvious that something bizarre happened, and 
 that bizarre is going to get you sooner or later!
  You play the game as the engineer Isaac Clarke who is sent along with a computer geek and a security 
 officer to a planet cracker that lost contact with heart, but also to find Isaacs girlfriend. 
 If you played RES4 or any survival shooter before, youll feel right at home with the cramped controls 
 and heavy mouse control (those complaining about mouse lag, this is not a FPS for games sake!) . 
 You will fight numerous bizarre creatures called necromorphs that, unlike zombies or other enemies, 
 wont die from headshots. Instead, you will have to cut them apart using your weapons. Put that 
 and some  scares, this game can be really scary, 
 just do yourself a favor, dont play on easy. The game sounds are great, from the crawls of the 
 aliens on the vents to the scream of a person being butchered further, this game will put you on 
 the edge of the seat all the time.
  Excellent game, well done EA!
  
  *That didnt happen to me but to a friend of mine xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indecipherable
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  General: Dead Space is an horror/survival game published by EA, mostly known for publishing sports 
 games. You assume the role of Isaac Clarke, an engineering specialist, who was sent with a team 
 of a few to perform what seemed to be routine repairs of USG Ishimura's communication systems. 
 The truth, however, is that the vast majority of the crew have turned into blood-thirsty, alien, 
 undead monsters, who would really like you to drop dead and are very willing to help you at that. 
 You make your way in the ship, repairing the systems one by one, trying to escape, while at the 
 same time searching for your ex-girlfriend, Nicole, who was working on-board the ship.
  
  Graphics: Being rightfully nominated for first place in the "Best Graphics, Technical" category 
 in this year's Gamespot awards, Dead Space has excellent graphics. Making very good use of lighting 
 and motion blur, while keeping jagged edges and frame rate drops out of the equation, the game 
 is very easy on the eyes. The enemies may look hideous, but their animations are fluid and effortless. 
 The same can be said for Isaac, his colleagues and generally everything that moves, or doesn't, 
 inside and outside of the Ishimura. PC graphics have a slight advantage over the console ports, 
 offering higher resolutions.
  
  Sound: Another category in which Dead Space was not only nominated in but also won, sound is a 
 key factor in getting you immersed in the game. While wandering in the ship, you hear all sorts 
 of creepy sounds, things falling and people screaming, and just when you'be managed to calm yourself, 
 you hear an ominous growl much closer to you and a Necromorph comes charging towards you! Small 
 details make large contributions in this section, and you will notice that you can hear nothing 
 in the places with vacuum, such as outside of the ship or places where the hull has been breached 
 (sound can't travel through vacuum) . The only thing you can hear in these cases is Isaac's breathing 
 and the muffled sound of your guns firing (in that case, the weapon's sound travels directly through 
 Isaac's body to reach your ears) . The voice acting is also very good, with none of the actors sounding 
 bored or over-enthusiastic, effectively bringing the characters to life.
  
  Gameplay: Even when using a keyboard to control Isaac, the response is accurate and precise. Soon, 
 killing Necromorphs and manipulating puzzle-important elements will become second nature. Isaac 
 has a number of weapons at his disposal, providing you buy them first, since there was no original 
 need for them. The weapons you use are almost all mining tools that can fortunately be used to 
 happily send the monsters to the afterlife. The only exception is the pulse rifle, which was originally 
 used by the Security Officers. Added to them, Isaac is equipped with a Stasis and a Kinesis module. 
 Stasis can temporarily slow down dangerous fast-moving objects or machinery and your enemies as 
 well, making them that much easier to dispose of. However, like all good things, its use is limited, 
 unless you're close to a Stasis Recharge Station or have a Stasis Pack in your inventory. Kinesis 
 lets you telekinetically move objects, be it to solve puzzles or to throw against your enemies 
 (like claws of dead necromorphs or exploding barrels) and its use is infinite. You can also use 
 melee attacks to get an opponent just a few steps back, so that you can aim better and you can 
 finish off enemies lying on the ground by stomping on them (which is actually pretty cool) .
  
  Innovations: Never before have I used this category in my other reviews and you could probably 
 argue that what I write here could very well fit into the Gameplay category, but I feel this wouldn't 
 do the game justice. There are some things Dead Space does that I've never seen before and feel 
 they deserve special mention. In the first seconds playing the game, you'll notice there is no 
 trace of a traditional HUD. All the information you need is on Isaac's back, like the amount of 
 remaining health or Stasis. Need to see how much ammo you have? Lift your weapon in the "ready" 
 position and a hologram on the weapon will inform you. In places with no air, another holographic 
 countdown timer will appear on Isaac's back, only to disappear again when the atmosphere is restored 
 or you exit the vacuum. These seemingly minor details do a very good job at making the game that 
 much more immersive and the experience more vivid and lasting.
  
  Conclusion: Excellency in every conceivable aspect, immersive atmosphere (just for the record, 
 Dead Space won the first place in the "Best Atmosphere" category as well) , a good story with some 
 nice plot twists and the occasional good scare make Dead Space a must-own game, one of the best 
 titles of 2008 and maybe one of the best horror/survival games so far. Recommendable without a 
 second thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbishop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  One of the most satisfying gaming experiances which doenst let down as I play it to completion. 
 
  
  Graphics- Brutally gruesome with some of the angriest animations displayed by things out of ones 
 worst nightmares. Unlike games like FALLOUT 3 where you can shoot someone 31 times in the head 
 and they're still alive DEAD SPACE has realistic consequences to body hits thanks to the amazing 
 dismemberment effects with tons of gore which never feel over done.
  
  Sound- Disturbingly effective in conveying a sense of something very unnatural and evil is occuring 
 warping reality into some monstrous onslaught upon the gamers psyche. Top notch fx all the way.
 
  
  Gameplay- My only gripe with DEAD SPACE are the controls you cant totally configure to ones liking. 
 For some reason the arrow keys and num pad cannot be configured to ones style of gameplay which 
 can make things feel arkward untill you get the hang of the games controls. One you did though 
 its worth the minor hassle as you embark on a dark rollarcoaster ride of psychotic proportions. 
 The many computer interfaces and other layouts in the game are well thought out with detailed designs 
 which are very intuitive and easy to learn. The animations when upgrading ones armor is also a 
 nice immersive touch. When in combat you can use a certain weapon called stasis which slows down 
 the enemy making them move in slow motion allowing you to aim and blow away single body parts in 
 real time kind of like VATS for FALLOUT 3 but much more better in execution and with alot more 
 intensity added into combat since its still real time unlike the freeze frame targeting of VATS 
 in FALLOUT 3 with unrealistic results. Here when you aim for the head it gets destroyed in one 
 shot not 31 shots later.
  
  Story- Well done storyline with a frantic pace which never lets up constantly hitting the player 
 with mind numbing sanity breaking situations. Character responses to what is happening all around 
 them is very believable and adds to the sense of emotional realism.
  
  Sum total- Astounding merging of story-gameplay-graphics and audio mastery coming together to deliever 
 an unforgettable experiance which feels complete and never insults the players intelligence. 
 
  
  A great gift for the holidays.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sounds: 10
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 8
  Actual score: 8.3
  
  Back in 1979, the film Alien brought viewers a new meaning for deep space horror as the slogan 
 correctly states 'In space no one can hear you scream'. This brought a new form of horror that 
 viewers and later on gamers craved for more. EA Redwood Shores caught this concept and upon many 
 months of researching space horror ideas released Dead Space and the net result: a smorgasbord 
 of bloody goodness if you can get past those horrid controls otherwise the Alien's slogan will 
 change to 'In space everyone can hear you scream'.
  
  You play the main character Isaac Clarke (named after the science fiction writers Isaac Asimov 
 and Arthur C. Clarke) and with a small team of engineers, answered a SOS request from the biggest 
 and meanest Planet Cracker USG Ishimura for repairs. Instead of landing in the docking bays of 
 USG Ishimura, the pilot decides to crash land the craft otherwise if he didn't there will be no 
 story. And besides the hero Isaac also has a secondary agenda that his girlfriend Nicole Brennan 
 was actually on Ishimura as a medical expert and considering her last message was requesting help, 
 naturally one assumes that all is not rosy on the good ship. As far as a storyline goes, it's a 
 little overused however the only thing that puzzled me was that considering the repairers only 
 consists of a handful of chaps, if you do a size comparison to the Planet Cracker USG Ishimura, 
 personally I would send an armada of engineers; say at least one hundred.
  
  Dead Space revolutionised some motions of how this game should work. The ole familiar HUD is no 
 longer there as players sometimes complained about the HUD took up screen space; well to those 
 who expressed their concerns, Redwood Shores made the HUD as part of the armour; that glowing light 
 on the spine is his life points, the ammo clip is marked on the weapon itself and the stasis is 
 that circular object to the right of the glowing spine. Also all the quests, logs and inventory 
 are displayed using holographic projection and when traversing in vacuum the 'air timer' is located 
 on your neck so it's goodbye to HUD and hello to viewing the entire character which takes up a 
 quarter of the screen - very ironic indeed. 
  
  Another revolutionised concept is the dismemberment of foes. Yes I know that this is not original 
 however the easiest way to kill the enemies in Dead Space is to dismember them so forget about 
 shooting their abdomen and welcome 'Texas Chainsaw' style and please don't hold back. It's obvious 
 that the developers put ample of time in this form of killing as practically every limb can be 
 chopped away; legs, arms, head, tentacles and whatever else protruded out from these fiends. In 
 addition, dismemberment equals lots of blood so please don't be shy and try to be creative. Heck, 
 I got into the habit of 'foot stomping' the bodies just to see the blood rain heavily out and do 
 some more until they completely dried up; then telekinesis the parts for good measure over rails 
 and if possible into space.
  
  If you are as blood thirsty as I am (maybe I was a vampire in my previous life) all of these actions 
 are not easy to perform. The controls for Dead Space are nothing more than dead confusing. Every 
 combat action requires Isaac to aim and this is where the game gets really scary; if Isaac wants 
 to shoot, aim and click the left mouse button (easy) ; if Isaac want to use telekinesis aim and 
 press the assigned key (whatever that maybe and nope the left mouse button has already taken) , 
 using stasis, aim and press another key; jump (in zero g) aim and press another friggin key (and 
 so on) . Unless you have more than five digits per hand this is not cool. In addition to all of 
 this nonsense the game has a noticeable lag when 'mouse aiming' however the solution is turn v-sync 
 off. That's not a bad idea if you want extremely slow aiming motion yet when v-sync is turned on 
 the mouse speed lags a moment when moving. My solution: when you hear/see a creature, r-u-n like 
 hell then compose yourself and pray.
  
  Considering Dead Space being tagged as a survival horror, Isaac is going to work hard to obtain 
 equipment and items and it certainly pays to rummage around the Ishimura for cash, ammo, power 
 nodes (which make items upgradeable and unlock certain rooms) , systematics and logs. Money can 
 be used to purchase more items but only systematics allows you to unlock more weapons and enhances 
 armour (similar to Bioshock where you collect scraps and cash to upgrade/purchase more ammo/weapons) . 
 Also Dead Space encourages thought process that sometimes just dissecting the enemy is not the 
 only way (as it waste ammo) therefore utilising the telekinesis to fling canisters towards your 
 foes could be a much more viable option for example.
  
  The graphical power behind Dead Space is no other than the Unreal 3 engine as this engine is arguably 
 the most utilised and resource friendly to date. Everything from Isaac himself to the critters 
 are all rendered to perfection. Considering that Dead Space is also tagged as a survival horror, 
 lighting effects are very important to create the ambience and loneliness when traversing the ship. 
 The gaming optimisation (e. g. resolution, AA settings etc) is somewhat on the poorer side as there 
 are little to choose from however (and luckily) the Unreal engine is well scripted therefore any 
 mid-range PC can enjoy the visuals without too much sacrifice to frame rates. And if you have enough 
 health points or if you are a sadist and like to see Isaac breathe his last breath, the death cut-scenes 
 are really cool to watch as sometimes Isaac might punch/kick the enemy off him or simply get sliced 
 into half.
  
  The real highlight though for Dead Space is in the sounds as the entire package really brings out 
 the terror just by listening. Every creature has its own noticeable yet terrifying noise that can 
 really bring shivers down your spine as they range from moans to clicking to even scratching and 
 bone-crunching as they walk, scurry and even fly about. Also the sounds of blood gushing out, bones 
 snapping and even bodies squishing when walking/stomping on them adds disgust but in a good way. 
 What enhances this haunting ambience are the occasional whispers echoing the corridors about 'search 
 and rescue' and et al in addition there's one chapter you can hear faintly the song 'Twinkle Twinkle 
 Little Star' (with modified lyrics) can startle even the most 'ice cold' person.
  
  The musical scores are all in high quality as you expected to hear if you are watching a high-budgeted 
 film and not surprisingly the composer is none other than Jason Graves. It seems that EA really 
 want to enter the music market as you can download the soundtrack via iTunes as it's a well-deserve 
 purchase to those who likes intense compositions. The voice acting also needs to be commendable 
 as the entire cast certainly shows emotions when conversing with Isaac yet and unfortunately so, 
 Isaac is your typical mute hero but credit is due as you can hear his wheeze and suffocation when 
 getting wounded/run out of air as it's so well recorded it can even make you feel the same.
  
  As far as a third person shooter goes and the amount of activities you need to finalise (that 
 is locating all the logs, shoot hoops via the zero g basketball game or even score high in the 
 shooting gallery) this game can easily take between fifteen to twenty hours and if you are a sadist 
 like me to foot stomp at every opportunity or attempt some 'house cleaning' via the telekinesis 
 expect more hours. Considering there is no multiplayer option, completing the game does unlock 
 further features (which I'm not going to mention) and naturally there's a wealth of information 
 on the internet about the world of Dead Space. In addition, Dead Space also has a prequel movie 
 'Downfall', a six part comic series and a free 'Myst' type online game 'No Known Survivors' so 
 there's plenty to do beyond the game itself. And lastly if you are a clever duck, there's an easter 
 egg in acrostic form that explains some things and I hope this wasn't a *ahem*dead give-a-way. 
 
  
  Dead Space promised the collection of all things horror and certainly succeeded in doing so. With 
 such a talented team behind the game (e. g. the musical scores, acting, graphics etc) and all things 
 being equal Dead Space is a sure champion. But sadly though, the mechanics is something that should 
 be improved on as the game feels as it was designed for the controller only. However all is not 
 lost as if you are able to 'retrain' your thoughts to grasp these newer forms of controls you'll 
 find that Dead Space is certainly a game not to be missed. In hindsight, Dead Space is like a combination 
 between Bioshock, Doom 3 and Cold Fear; that said if you like at least one of these games, boot 
 up Dead Space and enjoy the ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:06 am PT
Review:  Dead Space for me is the Game Of The Year. And mind you i have played the others for the PC like 
 Fallout 3 etc. which follows up very close.
  
  So what is Dead Space about? Some people says its like Resident Evil. Some say its like Bioshock.
 
  
  What do i say? Its a mix of those games and also hell of a lot like Half Life 2 which is a great 
 thing.
  
  Dead Space has a weird camera angle like Gears Of War. I really love this camera angle as it really 
 makes the game more intense.
  
  Story - Dead Space revolves around a Protagonist named Issac. He and his friends crash through 
 in another planet whilst their journey. After that cutscene you just wear that mast kind of thing 
 and come out. Overall a very Good Story.
  
  Definitely GREAT Story if you haven't played other sci-fi games like Mass Effect. The Ending is 
 Epic and Story is in such a Continuous flow. You never get confused. The twists and turns are amazing. 
 You can never predict who will turn on you. You will think for a second that this guy is the Main 
 Boss but you will end up seeing him CONSUMED by some other Alien.
  
  Missions are Great and never the SAME. They are all different in their own way.
  
  Gameplay 
 - Amazing. Simply Too Good. So intense and really Scary. 
  
  You have an excellent save point system. The checkpoints in this game are also good. The enemies 
 have very FEW variety at the beginning but then there is a lot of variety later.
  
  The best thing about this game is that even if enemies keep repeating, you really don't actually 
 come to know or care about it. You are all along working hard to save up ammo and more importantly 
 Save Yourself. Remember this is a Survival Action Adventure just like Resident Evil 4.
  
  The Weapons in this game are amazing and definitely gives Gears Of War a challenge. Even if there 
 are only 6 weapons in all. Make it Double. Yeah 12. Each weapon has a Secondary. And its not Secondary 
 like in CS Short Burst mode Automatic mode!!
  
  On the other hand, the guns almost change and really give a feel as if you have a new gun. The 
 Flame Thrower in this game Sucks and that's the only bad weapon. The weapons i used were Plasma 
 Rifle (My favorite) , Saw Rifle (Superb Weapon) , Plasma Gun (Default) and Line Gun. 
  
  The Bosses are few but even if they are few they are EPIC. The last boss especially is IMPRESSIVE.
 
  
  Oh yeah i forgot. You have an Inventory of your own to manage weapons, med kits and Ammo etc. There 
 are Store in each level or chapter where you can sell and buy new Items.
  
  There is a new thing called a Power Node which is like a Power Up. You have to use it in Work Benches 
 where you can upgrade your RIG. You can upgrade your armor in the Store and also buy new weapons 
 or Power Nodes.
  
  There are also certain places where you go Off Gravity and you have to make jumps to different 
 places. Overall a Great and Intense gameplay.
  
  Remember this is not a Blind Gory Third Person Shooter. Its a Strategic one. You have to target 
 the enemy's legs or hands and immobilize them. Else they will come and eat up your legs, hands 
 or legs. This game is DAMN Gory and really FUN to watch. Best Realistic Gore i have seen so far. 
 Gore is definitely better than Fallout 3.
  
  Graphics & Sound:
  
  Dead Space definitely is One of the BEST Ports for PC and not crappy like GTA IV which demands 
 3000$ Rig for playing it. Dead Space has no Complex Anti-aliasing settings or Anisotropic Filtering 
 that will make you go mad choosing the settings. Just on or Off Settings and in a couple of minutes 
 you are off.
  
  Graphics are a BIT just a BIT dumbed down for the PC which is a very good thing. Good Job EA. Graphics 
 is Awesome and trust me even though it is not the Best Graphics of 2008 it does come close.
  
  Even if i tried hard, i never found a Single Glitch. The music, ambience, sound are all Excellent. 
 Really sucks you into the game. Especially the Enemies making big rumbling noise and coming from 
 nowhere is if not scary but a "Sudden Incidence" which literally makes your hair on your Hand Stand 
 at night.
  
  Overall:
  
  What can i say about this game. I was all ready creating my blog for top games of 2008 and was 
 almost about to name Fallout 3 the winner.
  
  This is definitely EA's Best Next Gen Game. Way better than that Crappy Garbage called Mirror's 
 Edge.
  
  So if you have played Mass Effect, Resident Evil 4, Half Life 2, Bioshock you can Definitely Check 
 out Dead Space.
  
  If you haven't played Mass Effect or other sci-fi games Dead Space is a Must Buy.
  
  My GOTY 
 of 2008. Like i said in the title. If not the Best Game of 2008 there is no Denying the fact that 
 this is The Most Addicting Game Made In Recent Years Of Gaming. A Complete Package is what truly 
 defines Dead Space.
  
  Almost Perfect Game. But since its all been already done in Resident Evil 4, Half Life 2 etc. 9.5/10.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suratharajan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  it all starts when issac an engineer who comes under a distress call from a mining ship called 
 as ishimurra ..... at the starting we collide with the mining ship and we discover that every one 
 in the ship are dead and the chase of the aliens with no weapons in our hands was very much impressive...... then 
 we tend to discover that some experiments were done and it has resulted in failure ...... but guys 
 don't ever think its just a old doom story the story gave a new subject called aliens formed from 
 bacteria and we discover that a scientist was responsible for all this and all through the game 
 we are guided by a women called kendra .......... it gives us a weird game play and at last we are 
 betrayed by kendra and we use another ship to get the marker transported where it originally came 
 from........... the rest is suspense 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decker187
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  It's too bad I'll never play this game but once I found out it wasn't an FPS I decided to pass. 
 Horror shooters, especially, should ALWAYS be 1st person. Remember The Thing? One of my favorite 
 movies, and I couldn't wait to get my hands on the game when it came out but I was extremely disapointed 
 to find myself looking over the main character's shoulder the whole time. And then when you did 
 finally shoot something it suddenly changed to a FPS but your feet were suddenly frozen to the 
 ground and you had to spin around and take out enemies like some psychotic human weather vane. 
 It was the saddest gaming experience of my life. I was never absorbed into the story, never frightened, 
 never immersed into the environment, etc. I won't make that same mistake twice. 
  
  P. S. Look to F. E. A. R and F. E. A. R 2 to see how it's supposed to be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salamander732
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  The background story given through audio and video tapes, blood spatted writing, and documents 
 really got me into world. Without these, this game would be really boring. But being able to listen 
 to dead crew members scream and discuss plot devices while walking around and shooting monsters, 
 was really intense. I wish they had more intense audio, but maybe i'm greedy. The gameplay itself 
 is okay, i felt that the game was alittle stiff moving around like if your going to do 3rd person 
 shooter, they could have incorporated more fighting dynamics like hiding behind walls, ducking, 
 and more physical movements. The only 2 physical attacks he has is a kick and a arm punch, which 
 in the beginning helped alot, but i stopped using it for the most part unless i ran out of ammo, 
 but even then most attacks were blocked. I feel like the game depends on getting upgrades, which 
 is fine cause it is sort of an rpg, but it relies on replaying the game. The amount of 'nodes' 
 you need were insufficient. Nodes are what you use to upgrade weapons, armor, and abilities, however 
 i felt like there weren't enough and all they did was increase damage, duration, and ammo quantities. 
 I felt they should have expanded on that part of the game a bit more. This game was really fun 
 to play, I felt the 10-11 chapters of game play gave the game enough length to be satisfied. The 
 story seemed pretty solid, but it really helps to collect all the audio, video, and text logs to 
 really get you into the story, and then you'll be like OMGSTORY! The creepy atmosphere was greatly 
 highlighted by creepy lighting, sounds, and blood spattered walls. The writing on the walls was 
 definitely the most influential in the atmosphere to me. The game was good, not ground breaking, 
 but a solid 3rd person shooter. I recommend highly to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeonea
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the best horror game I've ever seen, only thing making me want more. The 
 graphics are tight along with the blowing or cutting off of limbs which adds the awesomeness to 
 the game. Some parts surprised me because of the insane people corrupted on the ship. When in Zero 
 Grav area's, the sounds and visuals are just outstanding. If your wondering how the game starts, 
 you should check out the anime movie, Dead Space: Downfall, well worth the money also, especially 
 when one of those mutants rip a dude's jaw clean off when he's screaming. What's cool about the 
 anime is that as soon as it's done telling the story, the game starts, very cool stuff. I can't 
 wait for Dante's Inferno as well, these guys know how to make a horror game just the way I like 
 it. Anyone looking for a good horror game, this is the one to pick. It's worth the month, imo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yasso
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is utterly mind-blowing. Revolutionary gameplay without any clutter or something that 
 we can call a User Interface, and the incredible thing is that they've actually pulled it off! 
 I did not feel any need for a UI, because it's right there... the suit you see on yourself.
  
  The graphics could've been done a bit better. Don't get me wrong, they are next-gen and very 
 beautiful. But there's definitely room for improvement. I just cannot give this game 9.8 or 9.9 
 to accommodate the room for improvement in graphics, and I'm not giving it 9.5 because the game 
 just blows my mind away.
  
  The story is not revolutionary, but considering what other options we have today in gaming, it 
 is really a work of art. I absolutely love it, and it sucks you in.
  
  And the audio is the icing of the cake... it makes the game that much more atmospheric.
  
  Performance: 
 I have all the graphics maxed out, all of them. And the game runs flawlessly. Not a single crash 
 or problem or even sluggishness, and at a time when 2 other well-known games including a franchise 
 are crashing and simply won't run. So don't believe moronic reviews by people with messed up machines. 
 Performance is flawless and without even a patch.
  
  I absolutely love this game, and I really, really hope EA keeps developing games like this. I can't 
 say the story has been EA's strong side in the past years, and I'd love to see them building on 
 this game and giving us at least an equally lovely sequel or even another game similar to this 
 one in all its aspects.
  Dead Space is utterly mind-blowing. Revolutionary gameplay without any clutter or something that 
 we can call a User Interface, and the incredible thing is that they've actually pulled it off! 
 I did not feel any need for a UI, because it's right there... the suit you see on yourself.
  
  The graphics could've been done a bit better. Don't get me wrong, they are next-gen and very 
 beautiful. But there's definitely room for improvement. I just cannot give this game 9.8 or 9.9 
 to accommodate the room for improvement in graphics, and I'm not giving it 9.5 because the game 
 just blows my mind away.
  
  The story is not revolutionary, but considering what other options we have today in gaming, it 
 is really a work of art. I absolutely love it, and it sucks you in.
  
  And the audio is the icing of the cake... it makes the game that much more atmospheric.
  
  Performance: 
 I have all the graphics maxed out, all of them. And the game runs flawlessly. Not a single crash 
 or problem or even sluggishness, and at a time when 2 other well-known games including a franchise 
 are crashing and simply won't run. So don't believe moronic reviews by people with messed up machines. 
 Performance is flawless and without even a patch.
  
  One last note: not quite sure about replayability yet, but my advice is to really take your time, 
 explore, and live this story... you can easily get all your money's worth from really taking your 
 time with this game the first time round.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: melvinGNL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  This IS, in fact, a great game. It has everything to provide you with a solid single player campaign 
 which sucks you in completely. Downside is that mission objectives get pretty boring after a while. 
 And, plot-wise, Isaac has an incredible amount of bad luck. Hard to believe, even if zombies are 
 real. Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... 
 Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... 
 Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make 
 us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make 
 us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make 
 us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make us whole again.... Make 
 us whole again.... Make us whole again.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer911
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  For some reason, this game is bringing back a lot of fond memories of one of my all time favorite 
 games, System Shock. Yes, I know it is a different game... but I haven't been this immersed in 
 a story in a long time. Certainly can see where the designers were pulling some of the better elements 
 from that game and others. 
  
  
  
  Things I like: Immersive story line, well thought out, scary/creepy atmosphere. When I started 
 in, I had no idea as to what was going on, and wanted to keep playing just to see what would happen 
 next. Never run across a game before that made me as jumpy as this one! LOL! Great graphics, absolutely 
 superb audio quality and acting. Varied enemies with different abilities. Fun sub games. 
  
  
  
  Things I don't like: I agree with the others who said that this would probably have 
 been better executed as a 1st person shooter as opposed to a 3rd... or at the very least allow 
 the player to go back and forth between the two perspectives. Controls are clunky. Gore is a little 
 over the top in some ares, notably the hospital level. Minor graphical glitches... nothing that 
 ruins the game, just annoying at times. 
  
  
  
  Things I would have wished for: More non-linear game play, destructible environs. 
  
  
  
 
  All in all, it is really good to run across an ORIGINAL game that actually works out of the box, 
 with an intelligent and immersive storyline, and not focused on gimmicks to pull the game along. 
 Yeah, I know I'm generalizing, but considering the amount of complete crap and broken games that 
 has come out the past couple of years, I found Dead Space to be a refreshing change. Highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockmasteR-_-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  let me start with this :
  Dead Space is the best game I enjoyed playing since Crysis and Bioshock
  the game really makes 
 u feel optimistic that there are still companies that are making great games out there.
  
  first of all the graphics are amazing, I mean I'm playing the game at a 800 x 600 Resolution and 
 all Maxed and it looked really great, no lagging at all so no need for patches or anything :)
 
  
  The gameplay? WOW!! what should I say, I really loved Resident Evil 4, so how can't I love its 
 Advanced version?
  yes sir, Dead Space is an advanced version of RE4 and way better in gameplay, the first moment 
 you starts to play the game, you will like it, but there is one moment when my mouth hits the floor 
 wide open and I fell in love with the game, in Chapter 1 when the Tram explodes and one of the 
 creatures jumps on Isaac, the game tells you to press "E" rapidly and the camera starts shaking 
 and they moved to cinematic view.
  
  So if your PC fills the minimum requirements of the game, and you still didn't get it, well what 
 are you waiting for?? it will blow you away!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmanxmk
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  Ok i wont give a boring review, ill just say some things that make the game masterpiece:
  - Didnt noticed nether 1 bug while i was playing (maybe some minor things u wont notice at all)
 
  - It dont looks like any game before, but it looks like a combination (at least, i looked it that 
 way) of "The thing", "Halo" & "Doom". But it looks much much better because it has unique adjustments 
 which make it much more interesting to play.
  - Atmosphere is really chilling and for some ppl scary
  - Perfectly balanced story which makes 
 the game long enough and interesting all the time
  - Its a shooter game but combined with RPG elements which are the cherry on the top of the cake
 
  - One of the unique game parts are the interactive scenes... in which u have control of your character.. everything 
 combined with special effects & great camera motion.. makes the game perfect, it makes you feel 
 like in a movie, but you play the main character.
  - Also there are few more things like (tele) kinesis module & time slowing module, but i wont say 
 more...
  - There are lot more facts that make the game beautiful, some things should be left to be discovered 
 :)
  - Worth playing? Definitely yes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanesade
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 11, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This feels like a port. And not just a port, but a bad one. Laggy and sluggish, you feel like you 
 are walking with a tape delay. 
  You know that irritating delay that console games and controllers have. 
  I know I know, you 
 console guys are grinding your teeth, but I just can't stand the feel of console games.
  Well this has that feel I hate, along with all the lack of "control" that a shooter or action game 
 MUST have. 
  The camera seems to have a mind of it's own. You just don't get to look where you want to.
  First 
 thing after the intro, the game's camera just spins around endlessly, well I lost faith pretty 
 much right away.
  No kidding ... the camera just spun and spun. I finally found a thread that had the solution. Yup 
 ... disconnect the joystick or edit a config file in text editor. 
  You seriously have to be kidding me.
  
  I hope the patch helps .. but Im not holding my breath.
 
  
  I'm really disappointed, I was looking forward to this.
  
  No control in a shooter = used bin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kerry688
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is a survival horror game that puts you in the shoes of Isaac Clarke, an engineer that 
 is sent to the USG Ishimura on a routine repair mission. Of course, things go terribly awry like 
 they always do and Isaac is thrown into a dark and terrifically atmospheric journey that forces 
 him to fight for his survival, and possibly the survival of all mankind.
  
  Dead Space doesn't revolutionize the survival horror genre, but it's solid storyline and dreadful 
 setting set it apart from other games in it's class. Here's the breakdown.
  
  -- Graphics --
  
  The graphics are bloody, gruesome, and gorgeous. The textures have amazing 
 detail and the art direction fit the concept of the game perfectly. Guts and blood splatter in 
 satisfying bursts and animations are smooth. Aside from the rare case of limbs being stuck in a 
 wall, the graphic design of Dead Space does nothing but further engross you into the horror experience. 
 
  
  -- Sound -- 
  
  The sound design is right on the money. You can hear the Necromorphs lurking in the vents, groaning 
 and longing to rip your throat out. The weapons sound powerful, and each limb you dismember is 
 met with a gratifying crunch, slice, and/or smash. The voice actors do a good job in making each 
 character feel real. Each step you take will be a wary one, thanks to the amazing atmosphere the 
 sound brings. Along with the beautiful graphics, Dead space packs a one-two punch that makes sure 
 you never forget the USG Ishimura.
  
  Now, on to what matters the most:
  
  -- Gameplay --
  
  Taking your first steps in the shoes of Isaac Clarke is quite reminiscent 
 of Resident Evil 4. One way Dead Space differs is in how it presents information to the player. 
 
  
  The HUD is integrated into Isaac's exosuit, or RIG. Your Health and other gauges are on the back 
 of the RIG, so that there is never a fixed bar to take you out of the action. Inventory screens, 
 Maps, and etc. are all displayed on a holographic image in front of Isaac in real time, so he can 
 still move and be attacked. 
  
  These innovations make it so that the player is never pulled out of the game, and preserves the 
 horrific atmosphere very well. 
  
  Another way Dead Space sets itself apart is the way you deal with your enemies, which are called 
 "Necromorphs." These creatures are former ship crew and engineers, but they have lost all sense 
 of humanity and only wish to rip Isaac to shreds. 
  
  In order to deal with these deadly foes, you have to dismember them, and cut off their limbs. This 
 creates a sort of strategic layer to the game, as each enemy can be dealt with differently than 
 the last. For example, you can shoot off a Necromorph's head, but instead of dying, it will begin 
 to swing wildly since it cannot see you. 
  
  You can shoot their legs and decrease their mobility, but they will undoubtedly drag and lunge 
 themselves towards you with every chance they get. Maybe the Necromorph will feint it's death, 
 and strike once you walk past. The Necromorphs are bloodthirsty, resilient enemies that won't go 
 down without a fight.
  
  Dead Space also boasts a decent selection of weapons, all of which feel and sound great. Each weapon 
 has it's strengths and weaknesses, and should be utilized to as such. Isaac can wield pistol-like 
 Plasma Cutter dismember his foes with ease, or a Line Gun that slices anything in it's path to 
 pieces. Perhaps you'll use the Flamethrower to incinerate your enemies, or the Force Gun to smash 
 them into goo. Or if all else fails, Isaac can brutalize the Necromorphs with melee. 
  
  Gunplay is extremely satisfying. 
  
  There is also an upgrade system that allows you to spend 
 "Power Nodes" in order to make your weapons more deadly and your RIG and other items more effective. 
 
  
  Now onto the shortcomings with the gameplay of Dead Space.
  
  Mission objectives become quite tedious, even though each objective has a legitimate calling. You'll 
 be doing a lot of fetch missions and the routes are pretty much as linear as you can get. But don't 
 let that discourage you, you'll surely find a lot of fun in decapitating Necromorphs and learning 
 about the people that were aboard the USG Ishimura.
  
  Besides that, you'll find that many of the other characters boss you around, and you end up doing 
 tasks for them. You'll be running around being attacked while the others will be sitting around, 
 barking orders at you through your comlink. 
  
  The times in which you are actually in close proximity with the other characters are rather restrictive; 
 most of the time they'll be behind some sort of barrier in which you can't pass, or they'll give 
 you the next objective. Lame, for lack of a better word. It would of been nice to see some kind 
 of AI help in the fight against the Necromorphs, beyond them telling you what to do next. It really 
 makes you want to dismember them, but wait, every time you try to shoot them, Isaac lowers his 
 weapon. Come on EA, throw us a bone. :P
  
  These nuances detract from the game in that they take you out of the experience. When you're going 
 to grab that third Navigation card, it's a little difficult not to be annoyed. One character in 
 the game actually goes as far as saying, "I don't know how much more of this I can take." as she 
 sits in her cozy room, safe and sound from the evil Necromorphs. It really makes you think, "Why 
 the hell don't YOU do something $%#$!?" 
  
  I sincerely hope that in the sequel, (if there is one) that the player is able kill the other characters. 
 Heck, I'll take the "Mission Failed" screen. It would have made me feel a lot better playing this 
 game.
  
  Rant aside, in all, Dead Space offers about 15-20 hours of terrifying, heart pumping gameplay.
 
  
  -- Replay Value -- 
  
  In your first round with Dead Space, you won't be able to fully upgrade your gear, and some elements 
 in the story will be a little hazy. So, the game allows you to restart the game with all of your 
 gear, along with a few goodies to help you out. 
  
  Beating the game (on normal difficulty at least) gives you 10 Power Nodes and 50,000 credits, aside 
 from unlocking a few other things. Upgrading your weapons all the way also changes the way they 
 fire. For example, upgrading the Line Gun changes the color of it's ammunition, and the sound effect 
 is beefier than it was initially. It's a small change, but a cool change in any case.
  
  Subsequent playthroughs won't yield any new story arcs or content, but it gives the player an opportunity 
 to understand the story of Dead Space better, and to own Necromorphs with bad-ass, upgraded guns.
 
  
  -- The Final Verdict --
  
  Dead Space is a great game, and even if you're not a fan of the survival horror genre, you should 
 definitely check this game out. Again, Dead Space doesn't completely revolutionize the genre, but 
 it's extremely solid gameplay and enthralling story will leave you saying, "This game is awesome." 
 
  
  If you haven't tried it, go get it. 
  
  9 out of 10.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcwleblanc
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  From the user reviews i have read from the PC users you would think this game was 100% unplayable 
 on the PC. I didn't have any trouble at all with the PC version of the game, the graphics looked 
 great, the mouse was smooth from the moment i started playing (with no lag) . I use a 4:3 aspect 
 ratio and i had no problem seeing my "hud" life and statis bar at any point in time, nor did Isaac 
 take up half my screen... maybe people don't know how to change their resolution... or maybe people 
 should stop trying to game on Dells from 2004. Also with the controls being messed up on the PC 
 version.... how? again absolutely no gripes at all with the control scheme and i dont think i remapped 
 a single key. 
  
  The sound is also amazing in the game, from the score to the haunting voices throughout to the 
 sound of the creatures in the vents, overall it sounds amazing.
  
  My only problem with the game is it took less than 10 hours to complete... and there isn't much 
 making me want to play through again.
  
  meh to other PC gamers out there who are thinking of picking this up for the PC but are being deterred 
 by the people saying it runs like crud on this platform... don't listen to them, if you have a halfway 
 decent rig (aka either a newer gaming dell, alienware, voodoo or something you hand built yourself 
 to play games) then by all means pick it up, the games amazing.
  
  
  
  p. s. to one reviewer who "hit space and had his gun turn sideways instead of stomping on an enemy" 
 don't be a scrub next time and try pressing space when you arent in "aim mode" i suggest not using 
 the "toggle aim mode" button and rather stick with the right click.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Quick Note: I played this game on a mid level, one year old gaming PC, still amazing
  
  One Word: remarkable. Another word: horrifying. Add these two words and you have one of the best 
 horror shooters in years, worthy of all the positive reviews many critics have given it. You see, 
 with time it's easy to grow tired of the same FPS strategy of shooting people over and over by 
 different means or weapons. What Dead Space does is moving FPS into another dimension on a genre 
 where is difficult to do any clever innovations like the ones Dead Space does: What if, instead 
 of shooting people in the head or obliterating them with grenades/explosives, the player will have 
 to dismember its enemies to be more effective? What if we make these enemies one of the most grotesque 
 abominations seen in a game and frame them in a suffocating environment where danger is in every 
 corner and you can never walk easy and unafraid? What if, in top of that, we make you a clumsy, 
 weak and somewhat slow to react and run engineer, not a super-soldier, that would have to make 
 an extra-effort to survive the horrors he is about to face dressed on a working suit and using 
 mostly modified tools and not real weapons? And, to make matters even more interesting, we add 
 a superb soundtrack and all sort of background noises and pain laments that will make you shivers 
 and more often than not jump from your seat and scream: Jesus!?
  
  Think the original Alien movie and its superb Nostromo environments and story meet the superb mechanics, 
 gameplay and graphics of Half-Life 2, meet Doom 3 in steroids and meet horror comic books, all 
 in one package. It had been a long time for me that I hadn't enjoyed a game so much, you will find 
 that you just can't stop playing it and see how all the conspiracy and the story ends, while enjoying 
 the challenges and increasingly harder-to-kill enemies while perfecting the art of dismembering. 
 I put his game very high on my list of all the FPS games I've played, and I see few difficulties 
 for this game to become a classic and be a strong competitor for game of the year awards. Yes, 
 it's that good
  
  On the technical side, this game is pretty good. Backgrounds are carefully designed and the sense 
 you're having a horrible experience and something really bad happened on that ship is everywhere: 
 blood stains and writing including bloody handprints, flies, maggots and nothing seems to be on 
 it right place. Smoke, shadows and light flickering make a very good case to support this view 
 too. The atmosphere is dense and somber, holocaust nevertheless. Your character also looks very 
 well designed, and the weapons and its targeting system as well as the firing are pretty good. 
 Some people will complain about the 3rd person view and how complicated it is sometimes to target 
 an enemy with at least 20% of the screen seeing your back, but I believe this was done on purpose: 
 There is no other way to experience the game and immerse on it without this awkward view. Call 
 it a trade, although I can see some people with smaller than 20" or 4:3 screen ratios complaining, 
 I think the game was designed to play it on at least a 20" screen and of course a widescreen monitor 
 (there is no rendering support for 4:3) . The game is also very stable and amazingly enough there 
 is no emergency patch release or alike, something very hard to find in a game these days. A few 
 issues need improvement like the weird way to use the mouse to aim and shoot and the difficulty 
 to use stomping (a great feature) on a K+M setup, and those can be addressed on a patch, but if 
 you're flexible enough and can adapt a bit, you can play this game right out of the box. A rarity!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovka87
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  dead space is resident evil and doom combined and makes a great game and defines the word horror. 
 if you have surround sound this is the ultimate experience in sound, if you don't don't worry it 
 still just as good with regular speakers. the gameplay is very solid, and the you play over shoulder 
 of the main character (issac) like resident evil 4. the story is great as well, thats all i'll 
 say about it and you should take my word on it you won't be disappointed, unless your expecting 
 it to be as good as bioshock witch it isnt but is very good. this game gets a 10 because it's thee 
 perfect horror game and i can't find anything wrong with this game, nothing. the thing i like a 
 lot is that you can upgrade weapons and armor kind of like the way final fantasy 10 did. i didn't 
 know you could do that when i got the game so it was good surprise for me. well hope this review 
 helped somebody and if you get by buying it or rent it enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartek21
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  To start it off the game is in the horror genre to keep people at the edge of their seat. It does 
 this successfully, for instance find me someone who did not jump at least once during the game.
 
  
  The game is also a great fps game since it has a good variety of weapons which all have a primary 
 and secondary fire mode and you can upgrade them to further suit your preferences.
  The monsters are well animated, and are also varied from the common slasher to the giant brutes. 
 The idea of shooting of the limbs also works well imo since in most games - BOOM! headshot... and 
 thats the end of story.
  The boss fights are also well designed since they are totally different from the normal monsters 
 and have different stages.
  
  The graphics in the game are not the best, nor the worst. The textures used arent too amazing however 
 neither are the ones in cod4 when you go up close to them. The lightning however makes up for this, 
 you can see the lighting is very well made along with the shadows.
  The physics are also impressive in the game with the zero-g mode, the rag doll effects and just 
 generally tossing arounf objects with the kineses module.
  
  The sounds also works effectively with the visual and is amazing how much of a fright you get when 
 a monsters pops out of the vent and the sound track with the horror music.
  
  All in all the game is excellent since it achieves what its meant to, has excellent sound, decent 
 physics, amazing lighting, interesting story and appealing graphics which make the game a must 
 buy for people who like fps games or horror games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: engage999
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  if your a fan of doom or resident evil, or just horror games in general, buy this game. DEAD SPACE 
 is the creepiest, heart pounding game i've played in a long while. first off let me say that the 
 only thing you have to get used to is the camera, but after 15-20 minutes it won't bother you. 
 now for the good stuff,
  1) sound-probably the best sound (not music) in a video game to date, if you have surround sound 
 or a bose system your good. the sound is the thing that makes this game perfect for me.
  2) gameplay- is brilliant, over the shoulder view is a great way to go besides first person in 
 my opinion. you be on the edge of your seat from the beginning there is no part in the game we're 
 you are bored, stuck, glitches noting. there are also challenging puzzles in the game as well, 
 which adds a little something to the game.
  3) graphics- not much to say besides that they are great and won't be disappointed.
  4) story- 
 (no spoilers) great story great story great story. a great story makes the video game last so much 
 more and makes the 50 bucks worth it. you play a guy named issac going to a ship with some technical 
 difficulties if you know what i mean. and also there is another part i wont say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zee666
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Lets get this straight, I've been playing the pc version and yes, I do agree with many other people 
 that the pc controls are a kind of crap, at least that's what I thought at first.
  
  I began playing and immediately noticed that the camera was annoying, Isaac's movement was awkward 
 and the controls felt generally bad but after playing for a few hours and after I'd killed a load 
 of grotesque monstery things I noticed that the frustrating camera and generally awkward movement 
 got my heart pumping more than if they were perfect. The controls didn't make me want to pull out 
 my hair, they just added to the game. 
  
  The lack of HUD is a stroke of genius in my opinion and is one of the reasons that this game is 
 so immersive, it hardly ever takes you out of game and you try to hurry whenever you go into your 
 inventory or map just in case a monster attacks as your reading, trying to find a place on the 
 map or going through your items.
  
  The graphics are very good, audio is amazing and the noises in the vents are simply superb, making 
 you feel as if you are surrounded at all time.
  
  I do, however have a few major complaints.
  There are weapon stores and ammo all over and although 
 this isn't my complaint it does lead me to the question: Why has no one survived? Almost everyone 
 is dead despite the fact there are buzz saws, machine gun things and laser-type things costing 
 very little in store. And if there are survivors (perhaps I just haven't reached that bit yet) 
 why can I not hear gun fire, shouts, explosions or even attempted radio contact, it makes no sense.
 
  Another complaint, that isn't complaint for me but probably is for loads of other people is, the 
 game isn't very scary. There's lots of tension, atmosphere and creepiness but the enemy traps are 
 predictable and music tends to sound whenever there's an encounter. I like this though as I was 
 never any good at survival-horror games and this is one even I can enjoy because it's so good, 
 I don't want to hide in a safe spot, scared of what's in the next room, I want to go in there and 
 start chopping off limbs!
  My last complaint is strategic dismemberment; one, what's so strategic about, you cut off their 
 legs and arms and then they die, simple. And two, you're very restricted as to what you can cut 
 off, you can cut off the legs and arms and head and then something else depending on the enemy 
 but I just want to cut them in half through the chest, I think a super-heated laser should be able 
 to do that.
  
  My final comment is that, although there are many flaws in the game they're not technical or anything 
 vital, they're just missed opportunities so I give Dead Space an 8.8 out of 10.
  If you like shooters and want one with tension, atmosphere and super creepiness then this is about 
 as good as they get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  When I first got and started the game i was like "Ok, another Alien story. What's the big deal?"
 
  
  But I was wrong, surprisingly though the game starts with nothing new, the games moves you into 
 Fever Addiction playing it
  
  The story line gets boring and obvious sometimes but the game-play is really something else
  
 
  The graphics are fantastic, and the sound effects complete what is a new gaming experience
  
 
  throughout the missions you get to try almost every thing
  
  You get to go out of your space ship into another
  You get to use the large lazer canon of the 
 ship to shot at asteroid
  You get to walk outside the ship where any mistake could be fatal
  You even get to experience 
 the Zero Gravity atmosphere
  
  The suit is also a new touch that you even get to upgrade throughout the game
  
  The weapons 
 are strange and effective and each one has it's downs and ups making you almost forced to use them 
 all throughout the game
  
  And once the story gets together and you mission is complete 
  New modes are open making it tempting to go and try starting the whale thing again
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: izhamizan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  its a mission that went the other way around.. instead of fix a ship u ended up killing wat made 
 the ship the way it was in the 1st place..
  nice weapon and all.. but i like the kinesis power u will get in the game..
  and off course seeing 
 the limbs of the monsters that had their eye on ur juicy flesh for watever meal that call it in 
 "alien langguage"..
  and the sweet part is u get to lvl up ur "goods"..
  not like in doom.. this way u get more defence and more offence if the monster get more hungry 
 for ur flesh.. which i think it's programe to do btw..
  
  one thing tho' the camera angle got me menuevering the mouse all over the place when those hungry 
 aliens was up to my juicy meat..
  but that aside i still manage to have fun with it..
  all tho' the anime base on the game is tottally out of the games standard..
  i watch it and stop 
 it during the middle part cause it was getting boring..
  
  
  had fun playing the game.. oh.. i played the pc version cause i dun have a console.. poor me..
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_completor
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  It has been a while since there's been a decent scare game around. The last two F. E. A. R expansion 
 packs were a waste of time, but F. E. A. R itself was really good. 
  
  Dead Space is a one in a million game. A 'make-it or break-it' game. Following the recent shooter 
 trend of having less of a Heads up Display (think Call of Duty 4/5 'hardcore' multiplayer mode) , 
 Dead Space nails the formula with its innovative R. I. G. suit, complete with holographic projection. 
 
  
  The idea behind this idea is that your character's 'engineering suit' projects vital information, 
 health bars, and the works. This gives the effect that your character is reading off the projection.
 
  
  The slung-over-shoulder style camera view is a little hard to get used to, and so is the game engine 
 dynamics. At first, everything seems clunky (like one those budget shooters) , but you'll soon find 
 out why the creators chose this view. It's a dead scary way to play! 
  
  Among other innovations in Dead Space, are the abilities to upgrade weapons and ammo, solve zero-gravity 
 puzzles, and find objectives with a tracer. This last one is really cool. Instead of back tracking 
 through the entire map when lost, just hold down the 'b' key (for PC) and a holographic line will 
 appear to show you where you're supposed to be heading. 
  
  The weapons in Dead Space all have an alternate firing mode. Some of the weapons aren't even weapons 
 to begin with! Your primary weapon is your plasma cutter. A device once used for deep space mining 
 (presumably to cut through rock) . However, these mining tools are ideal for killing the various 
 monsters you'll face. 
  
  Why? Because Dead Space changes your standard shooter tactic. The creatures in the game need to 
 be 'strategically dismembered'. Shooting at the head or torso will result in minor or no injury. 
 
  
  The story line is also pretty awesome too. I will not reveal anything. You need the Dead Space 
 experience. Play this game. In the dark. If you dare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hagemann
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I initally bought this game for the PC. If you don't have a gamepad (I prefer the mouse + WASD 
 control scheme) it unplayable out-of-the-box. The camera is broken and requires modifying a text 
 file. Some changes also need to be made to your graphics settings if you run an nVidia board. Once 
 I got that working, I discovered several keys didn't work and can't be re-mapped. At this point, 
 I gave up. Luckily, the reseller let me trade it for the PS3 version, which is excellent. As a 
 longtime fan of horror games, this one doesn't disappoint. In the dark with a good sound system 
 you'll find yourself jumping out of your seat. Some of the best sound design I've ever heard in 
 a game. Distant echos and pipes clanking together are perfectly rendered. The weapons are imaginative 
 and satisfying to use. 
  
  I should note that EA was of absolutely no assistance from a technical or customer service standpoint 
 when I had trouble with the PC version. If the reseller hadn't agreed to exchange it, I would have 
 wasted $50 on a game I couldn't play.
  
  EA, this is a great game. Now, if you could improve your customer service and your QA (this is 
 an incredibly lazy port to the PC) you might be onto something... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G60-FORCE
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2009 4:10 pm PT
Review:  ADVICE1: play in daytime, i haven't but i wish i had :)
  ADVICE2: play @night ... to make it even more chilling!
  ADVICE3: make sure you have enough clean 
 pants ;)
  ADVICE4: just kiddin' but this game was FEAR / DOOM3 / RESIDENT EVIL / SILENT HILL / CONDEMNED 
 combined!!!!!
  
  ADVICE1: play in daytime, i haven't but i wish i had :)
  ADVICE2: play @night ... to make it even more chilling!
  ADVICE3: make sure you have enough clean 
 pants ;)
  ADVICE4: just kiddin' but this game was FEAR / DOOM3 / RESIDENT EVIL / SILENT HILL / CONDEMNED 
 combined!!!!!
  
  ADVICE1: play in daytime, i haven't but i wish i had :)
  ADVICE2: play @night ... to make it even more chilling!
  ADVICE3: make sure you have enough clean 
 pants ;)
  ADVICE4: just kiddin' but this game was FEAR / DOOM3 / RESIDENT EVIL / SILENT HILL / CONDEMNED 
 combined!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menthoru
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of role-play or adventure games because they have the power to create credible 
 universes, backed up by good stories.
  
  With action-shooters, most times you get the same feeling: kill'em all. But there's one sub-genre 
 that has always managed to create a good level of attraction for me: survival-horror.
  
  If the game is good, it manages to build up tension, to keep you on the edge of your seat, and 
 Dead Space did just that.
  
  The action start pretty quick and you don't get too many breaks during gameplay. You don't need 
 to simply wander the halls, mindlessly shooting alien monsters, but rather follow a different strategy 
 by dismembering them, and thus conserving ammo. And you'd better do that, because there will be 
 moment when you'll wish you would have saved ammo.
  
  The learning curve is pretty quick, in 15 minutes tops you get used to all the commands.
  
 
  The 3rd person view, with the character moved a bit to the left of the screen, with no additional 
 information on screen, like health levels (you see that on you costume) , or ammo (rounds count 
 visible while pointing your weapon) , add more to the general feeling of immersion into the story.
 
  
  The graphics are really amazing, with blood and creepy organic life forms everywhere. This is truly 
 one game that deserves it's rating: "mature".
  
  One the most creepiest scenes in the game is a small cinematic of a woman (mad scientist?) dissecting/hacking 
 a body, but as soon as you enter the room, she takes a look at you and quickly cuts her own throat. 
 You'd definitely not want your kids to see this kind of things.
  
  Another thing I really love about Dead Space is the physics engine. The way corpses float in 0 
 gravity or how you push bodies around or over bridges to hear them falling and hitting stuff in 
 their way has a good level of realism.
  
  The soundtrack add a lot to the general feeling, the ambiance "music" is perfectly fitted and the 
 sound effects make you heart race with every scream and hit on the walls you hear.
  
  If "Dead Space" would have not been done, it should have been invented and I'm pretty sure it will 
 be a standard reference for games to follow.
  
  9 out of 10 for a great action-survival-horror-scifi game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeta-luis
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  El juego vendria a ser como el Doom3 con la jugabilidad del Resident Evil 4 ... el juego en si 
 me parecio muy muy bueno, la optimisacion grafica que tiene esta buenisima , la ambientacion y 
 los sonidos son tremendos ... los mounstros muy bien logrados y bastante dificil de matar... los 
 jefes de cada capitulo estan muy buenos. Durante el juego encontraremos nodos y creditos que podremos 
 usar para incrementar el poder de nuestras armar, comprar mejores armas ,balas , botiquines y tambien 
 mejorar nuestro traje, poseemos ademas un poder para reelentisar a los enemigos u objetos que resulta 
 muy util a lo largo del juego y tambien poseemos tlekinesis para mover divrsos objetos y lansarlos 
 contra nuestros enemigos o quitar objetos del camino para poder abansar, la verdad es que quede 
 impresionado con este juego... no es para nada una perdida de tiempo jugarlo vale la pena intentar 
 salvar el USG Ishimura 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  In 1996, a landmark in horror video gaming was unleashed. I am talking of course of the survival 
 horror classic, Resident Evil. While it was not the first in the genre, much like Doom, it was 
 simply the game that made the genre famous. Resident Evil still lives on today and is still considered 
 a juggernaut of the genre. There have been many great survival horror games since Resident Evil, 
 such as Silent Hill, but for the most part, RE has kept its crown. But a new challenger has just 
 stepped into the ring, Dead Space, and it has already put a stake through the heart of RE. While 
 RE4 was a great game, it was missing any true horror. Dead Space takes much of what made RE4 a 
 great game, bakes it in the Alien mold, and then adds in a secret spice. And boy, is that some 
 strong spice. Dead Space is easily the greatest thing to happen to the horror genre as a whole 
 in years. Horror cinemas have been clogged with remakes of already poor foreign horror films, sequels, 
 remakes of classics, and lame attempts and rip offs. Horror video games have seen a slight decline 
 in quality and have become sparse. Dead Space is a breath of fresh air, and you better embrace 
 that air because once you boot this game up your going to be gasping for it.
  
  Dead Space's premise is simple and derivative at first, your an engineer who works for a mining 
 company, one of their ships has gone black, you have to go investigate and repair blah blah blah, 
 its been done before, however it is easy to ignore this because the game instantly sedates you 
 with a great sense of immersion right off the bat. Bits and pieces of Isaac's personality and motifs 
 are shown, the graphics are crisp and gorgeous, and the technobabble banter between your crew mates 
 is oddly believable. The story does get a bit less derivative and interesting once you actually 
 encounter your first baddy. The creatures in this game are the Necromorphs; polymorphic parasites 
 that resurrect and mutate the bodies of our dead. Don't think of these creatures as zombies though. 
 While some shamble and you can see the horribly twisted visage of what was once a human being, 
 these creatures are much more interesting and much smarter. They use the vents to move around the 
 ship, and often pop out at you. The interesting thing about this though, is Dead Space actually 
 makes these scares interesting. If one remembers Doom 3, while it had excellent atmosphere, the 
 monster closets got repetitious. Generally anything that relies heavy on the 'Boo!' scares get 
 repetitious. Somehow, Dead Space always manages to lull you into a false sense of safety. Sure, 
 you know at some point something is going to come out at you, but you never know when or where 
 it will happen. The game has you bowing down to its will, and once it wraps you and pulls you in 
 with its creepy atmosphere and amazing universe, it'll send out some truly memorable scares that 
 always seem fresh. The next part about the necromorphs that is interesting, is how to kill them. 
 Right off the bat you must know, headshots are NOT what you want to go for. In Dead Space, headshots 
 are bad. Don't believe me? Take off a necromorphs head and see for yourself. Don't say I didn't 
 warn you. Pummeling them with bullets won't do either. Instead, you have to cripple them by cutting 
 off their limbs. This works surprisingly well, and upgrades the player can earn will help as you 
 can freeze enemies, as well as cut off appendages on their bodies and fling them using telekinesis 
 to finish them off whilst conserving ammo. The weapons are effective, but not too effective, as 
 they aren't primarily weapons. They are mining tools, and each one explains its purpose through 
 more elaborate writing into the universe. The boss fights are epic. The scares are epic. The story 
 eventually becomes epic. This game, simply put, is an epic piece of horror. 
  
  Dead Space will leave you gasping for air, pulsing with sweat, and downright disturbed yet you 
 will crave more. Forget Resident Evil 5. The next true survival horror game is here, and its name 
 is dead space. "In space, no one can hear you scream." Never have those words been more true than 
 in Dead Space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charleQ35
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  This Game is fantastic, it didn't get the publicity that i thought it would. At E3 all they really 
 said was the game was set in a ship in space, and there were monsters, and dismemberment. Weeks 
 later it was released with a surprising bang. It feels like and plays like Resident Evil 4. Once 
 the storyline kicks in you always get the feeling of "what's going to happen next", which is a 
 must to keep the story flowing. It really was an accumulation of unexpected events, i mean, where 
 else would stuff like this happen other then a derelict ship in space. 
  Necromorphs mixed with strategic dismemberment, beautiful graphics and a fantastic storyline really 
 equals a extraordinary game. 
  Sadly, i didn't see co-op, which i hoped to see, and multiplayer wasn't seen as well.
  The game 
 never gets old, and I'm sure many hope to see a sequel in the years to pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rishi_storm
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  This is one review i don't know where to start from. let me start by saying if you have played 
 the game this review will make a lot of sense.
  
  
  I was shocked to see the local 'M tv. tickr comment about a game saying how scary it was so i had 
 to get it. Guess what 'M tv' should stick to reviewing music.
  
  Wait don't get me wrong, Dead Space is game which definitely has the creeps and some immersive 
 action but it all feels nostalgic rather than exciting.
  
  Doom fans will understand why i felt this strange nostalgia. Anyway getting to the actual review, 
 Dead Space is a sci-fi horror game which is in many ways different from the latest action games.
 
  
  It has many up's like it continuous (gameplay not paused) cut-scenes and its amazing sound quality 
 which is really the plus point of the game.
  
  The downs are the repetitive mission objectives which make you want to finish the game only to 
 find out the climax of the story.
  
  Give it a try if you have the moolah.
  
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  BUY THE 
 ORIGINAL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulfractured
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Here is a list of things that turn an otherwise good game into to a frustrating experience:
  
  1. If you are using a 4:3 aspect ratio monitor get used to seeing only part of the screen. 
 This game is made for 16:9 monitors.
  
  2. Quick-save and quick-load options not available. 
  
  3. Frustrating controls; not many re-mapping 
 options available, especially if you are using a mouse with additional buttons.
  
  4. Camera problems, specially when you are close to the walls.
  
  5. No patch from the developers 
 so far has been released. They should at the very least have addressed the resolution issues.
 
  
  6. Very linear level design and experience.
  
  7. Some weapons are useless. What good id a flamethrower if you have to cut-off limps to kill mobs?
 
  
  8. Some issues while in zero-G areas.
  
  
  Positive aspects:
  
  1. The graphics and presentation is superb.
  
  2. Score, sound and atmosphere is exceptional.
 
  
  3. No HUD approach is very innovative.
  
  4. Dismemberment is a refreshing approach to combat (but you tend to run out of ammo if you're 
 not careful) .
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apenoot
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  The 'review deck' says it all... I didn't play more than 20 minutes before I gave up on the worst 
 controls I've ever experienced in a game. Game itself is quite atmospherical with good sounds, 
 decent visuals and some cool thingies I haven't seen before. Aliens are suitably scary etc. Basically 
 I think this game would own if the controls weren't so horrible.
  
  Mouse lag is atrocious and the protagonist is so slow it's almost as if he's moving around on the 
 bottom of the ocean. The 3rd person view sucks although I got used to that quickly. The idea of 
 the game is to 'dismember' enemies but it takes two decades (oh wait, I only played 20 mins) before 
 you finally manage to line up your gun properly. I've read some comments on the net from ppl who 
 actually like the awkward controls coz it 'adds to the tension' and 'makes it more realistic coz 
 Isaac [protagonist] is supposed to be engineer not soldier' but these comments are all bull, the 
 controls are simply lacking and disabeling vsync (which is the recommended solution according to 
 the whizzkids) doesn't help at all. It still feels clunky and awkward. How much fun is a game where 
 controls are a bigger part of the 'tension' than the monsters and environment?
  
  What it comes down to is that this is a bad port from the console version (that according to internet 
 reviews doesn't have the pc's lackluster controls) that should be avoided like the plague. Or get 
 xbox controller, maybe that works... but why play on PC if you aren't going to use mouse/keyboard. 
 There's a reason I don't play console shooters xD
  
  I was gonna ebay my version of the game but decided to break the disc and rip the manual apart. 
 Oh I also cut up the dvd box. Yeah I was that pissed off with the game. 9.0 my ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastahYee
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  For PC users: you will be banging your head against the wall within 5 minutes of starting the game. 
 I am writing this to warn you because the videos and reviews made this game seem like awesomeness 
 in a box.
  
  Here's what's wrong:
  
  Mouse Lag - I spent 20 minutes trying out various graphic settings to get the mouse to stop lagging 
 behind. I quit the game and looked in some forums to find that it is fixed by disabling "Sync Every 
 Frame." Okay, granted it's similar, but why couldn't it just be called "Vsync" like every other 
 game on the face of the earth?
  
  Graphics - WIth everything maxed out, the textures appear medium resolution at best, and the anti-aliasing 
 is... almost turned off it seems. Clearly there was no concession made here for PC users who - even 
 in the budget spectrum - have more powerful graphics equipment than any console. This was an immediate 
 disappointment after drooling over the many screenshots and videos.
  
  Botched 3rd Person Perspective - Your character takes up nearly the entire left half of the screen. 
 Interface elements that appear in game are easily missed. For example, hitting a key will draw 
 a line on the ground to show you where to go for your objective. Even more frustrating is trying 
 to see the popup information if you're faced the wrong way. This is unnecessary: a game's challenge 
 should be in the gameplay, not trying to read a menu.
  
  3rd Person does work in shooters, when it is implemented properly. Mass Effect is a good example.
 
  
  Humiliating Control Scheme / Tutorial - The game tells you to press [spacebar] to stomp. I stomp 
 the hell out of a nearby corpse to test it. Awesome. Then I pickup a weapon and go on my merry 
 way. My first encounter, I cut the legs off of some mutated creature. Then I move in to stomp it's 
 face into oblivion... and the gun turns sideways. Are you serious? So this integral piece of gameplay 
 requires that I drop my weapon?
  
  Summary - I was really excited to play this game, but as it stands, it is unplayable on the PC. 
 I highly recommend staying away until such time as EA provides a patch that includes a major overhaul 
 of the control scheme - hopefully one that takes into account the PC FPS controls that have been 
 established for over 15 years.
  
  Also, Gamespot, please separate your ratings by platform. As it is, I have no way to indicate that 
 I am specifically uhappy with the PC version of this game. Likewise, I had no way of knowing that 
 the glowing ratings this game has received are for the console version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Borges2207
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  Yeah i Know Dead Space is awesome i've played it a bit on a friend's X360 and i just loved it.
 
  A few Weeks later i bought it for PC, installed the game and as soon as the main menu screen opened 
 i started to hate the fact that you can't return open software.
  
  GRAPHICS: Ok my system has C2D 2.6Ghz   2GB DDR2 Corsair   8800GTX and of course like most pc games 
 it ran smooth with all high settings, but, i noticed a problem with AA and V-Sync. AA just looks 
 like it doesn't work there are jaggies everywhere and with that not working well guess what comes 
 next BAD TEXTURES.
  The V-Sync problem is a lot worst than the AA problem, having V-Sync turned causes some kind of 
 mouse lag on the other way having V-Sync turned off fixes the "mouse lag" but you still have a 
 hard time aiming (vertically) and occasional tearing will occur.
  Its a shame how EA made a great game look bad on PC.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Well after spending hours 
 trying to find solutions for the AA and V-Sync/mouse issues i uninstalled the game and i can't 
 say much about gameplay, but it played great on the X360
  
  SOUND: At least it sounded great!
  
  BOTTOM LINE: I bought this game, i paid for this game 
 and its too late for any regrets now.
  I DEMAND EA TO FIX THIS GAME, PATCH IT, UPDATE IT OR WHATEVER, BECAUSE SOME OF US STILL PAY FOR 
 THIS SH**!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staraven
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  I've played through 3 times now, the first 2 on Medium and the last on hardest (Insane?) . 
  
  Overall Impression: The graphics, sounds, and music are intense. The story is linear - not 
 a lot of room to wander around and do what you like. The game has a good story but not stellar. 
 The mechanics of the game are easy to learn - although several times I healed myself when I pushed 
 the wrong key... happens with any game. Fixed it by re-mapping the key (an in-game option) . The 
 weapons are cool and the upgrade process is thought provoking. Upgrade armor? Weapon? Which one? 
 How about extended my Kinesis? For $10,000 do I buy ammo? Health Packs? or Buy another Power Mode 
 so I can upgrade? Choices, choices, choices.
  
  The Zero-G areas are fun. The vacuum areas make you move quickly. THere are several places where 
 you need to be able to kill quickly and not get hung up in a battle.
  
  The first time I played, I found it a little hard. But the second and third times, the game was 
 almost too easy. I would say the re-playability is low - after 2-3 times there's not much allure 
 is going back. Maybe read some cheat guide to help find a few items you missed? 
  
  The replay is nice because you get to keep all your upgraded weapons and armor, and it unlocks 
 the military grade armor and a harder level of play (I think it was insane?) That replay was fun 
 because I knew what I was doing, how to play, and when to expect certain bad guys. BUT, I still 
 got killed :) 
  
  I like the game, it has scary intense moments, sound effects, pounding heart, and good music. The 
 graphics were great. I didn't encounter any bugs, crashes or glitches. THe quality of the game 
 is tight. I'm running Crossfire with 2 Sapphire HD3850s on XP. A very stable game and fun too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danarch777
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  Just when it had all been done in the survival horror genre, Dead Space comes along.
  
  Remember the first time you played the first resident evil? Walking down the 2nd hallway and that 
 infested dog comes crashing through the window? I almost peed my pants. Imagine feeling like that 
 all the time. Never feeling safe. You never know if the sounds around you are just ambiance, or 
 your pending doom.
  
  Take resident evil 4, doom 3, and the movie Aliens, then mix them all up to feel like a ride at 
 universal studios. 
  
  The story is pretty good [No Spoilers] . You start off on a mission with some people to repair a 
 mining space ship. Only something has happened and hordes of the most gruesome monsters I have 
 ever seen infest the ship. Your job is now to survive, if you can.
  
  One thing to note is the screens. All are in real time. No matter if your checking your map, inventory, 
 or communications, you can still move and fire your weapon. This also means you can still be attacked.
 
  
  The shop is awesome, but not resident evil 4 merchant awesome. The ability to store unlimited items 
 here is invaluable.
  
  Get this game. You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAL5000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  
  Well the name says it all. DEAD SPACE.. and don't get caught sleeping because your ass is dead. 
 This game is great. I am surprised that the reviewers did not score it even higherdumb asses. 
 It is original, has great graphics, and pumps up the adrenaline. 
  It draws you into its game play and immerses you in its storyline the longer you play it. When 
 you expect it.. it happens!!!!! Make sure you are always ready and loaded. I really like the third 
 person view, I got hooked on this view when I played Outcast back in 99. But this game is unique 
 and heart pounding. The AI is really good, it will make you jump and swear like a trooper. 
  
  This game deserves a perfect score, in my opinion for its delivery and innovative action packed 
 game play. It has been a while since I played a game that got me to jump and swear every other 
 word. The wife censored me as I playeda slap in the back of the head.. dammm !
  
  You will not be disappointed, it is a must have game. Way to go EA
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koospetoors
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  In Dead Space you play as Isaac Clarke, an engineer. Flying with a group of members to go check 
 up on the USG Ishumira and see whats going on in the ship. They find it and unfortunately, they 
 also find something else.... something hostile.
  
  The Necromorphs....
  
  Dead Space is a third-person horror game that, well, it borrows a few things from Alien and its friggen 
 scary. It plays alot like Resident Evil too. One of the features that make the game worthwhile 
 is the Necromorph.
  
  These aren't your normal run of the mill aliens, they are fast, deadly, ruthless and really, really 
 scary. To top it all off, they are also tricky little bastards. You can't just kill them with a 
 simple headshot. The game uses a sort of technique called: Strategic Dismemberment, basically it 
 means that you should shoot their limbs off to kill them. It works well.
  
  The story is quite good, but the good parts are only at the beginning and end of the game, you just 
 fix the ship throughout the rest of the game. The puzzles in the game are also well done, they aren't 
 too hard and also not too simple. (Thanks to the zero G levels) 
  
  To keep the game from getting plain, you also get stasis and a kenisis module. Kinesis lets you 
 pick things up and fling them at things. Stasis slows down moving objects for limited amount of 
 time. I never used the modules during fights, only for puzzles. But they are quite nice though.
 
  
  Throughout the game you can buy weapons and items at shops and also upgrade your weapons. The weapons 
 also pack a punch (except one) and there are enough of them.
  
  The graphics are really good, there are times where you just stand in awe looking at the landscape 
 and other times where you shiver because of all the mutilated bodies in the room. The sound also 
 rocks. The weapons or tools that Isaac uses sound quite powerful and the voice acting is good. 
 The screaming of the monsters and the sounds their feet make while their in the vents makes you 
 feel uneasy.
  
  The game is really scary, with alot of in your face moments and other unscripted moments, the Necromorph 
 are the scariest bunch of aliens I have ever fought in my life.
  you always get this feeling that their watching you, following you (you hear them in the vents) and 
 are planning to attack you anytime now, just behind that door... and they never did, like I said, tricky 
 little bastards. All this uneasiness is so cool thanks to the awesome atmosphere.
  
  The game is also very gory, the walls are full of blood spatter while there are mutilated bodies 
 around the whole place, the enemies also spray blood over walls if you shoot their limbs off and 
 well, zombie babies =just wrong. (but in a cool way)
  
  The game also plays fine on the pc, no nasty bugs or anything, I just find a delay in the mouse movement 
 with the vsync on. the problem is removed when the vsync is turned off. The camera might be a problem 
 for few, but with a gamepad, you can never go wrong.
  
  One more thing: I don't know, but I found a few plot holes here and there, the ending also leaves 
 more questions than answers unfortunately and I bet EA is going to milk this game a tad too much. 
 Looking forward to the sequel.....
  
  Final word: Dead Space is a scary game, but a good scary game, with great gameplay, awesome enemies, amazing 
 sound and graphics and, well, its just so damn good that you want to play it over again (and you 
 can play it over with your old upgraded character) and its quite gory though, definately not for 
 people who get scared easily or for people who want to throw up at the sight of bloody bodies and 
 bloodier walls.
  
  Rent it: If your squeamish, yes
  
  Buy it: If your longing for a good, gory, scary game, well, why are you still reading this? go buy 
 the game, you won't be disappointed!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adnank77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  I rever liked the genre called "Survival Horror" before this game .. At first, what impressed me 
 was the graphics in web sites and the popularity level it got from reviews here and there .. So 
 I decided to give it a try and God I was right ! 
  
  The game starts with a new idea in shooters .. the basic difference here is that you are not a 
 multi-skilled superman as usual .. you are just a normal simple man working as an Engineer and 
 due to unexpected developments while you go into mission to fix a ship, you find yourself trapped 
 in middle of terrifying environment where you have to survive all the time using basic Engineering 
 tools as weapons !! 
  
  Plasma cutter for example is just a metal cutter which becomes your primary weapon against monsters 
 .. 
  
  Graphics are top class at 1920 x 1200 resolution .. Sound track is AMAZING with dolby digital 5.1 
 system, and the story line gets you really carried away .. 
  
  There are very minor glitches which are advantages for a player like me but some people might not 
 like : 
  1- Playing is way too linear .. even if you are lost, there is a laser beam that can always show 
 you the way forward. 
  2- Bosses are way too easy. There are 3 bosses only and I killed ALL of them from first try which 
 is a little too easy for a boss. 
  
  In short terms, this game is a MUST HAVE for any lover for shooters, any kind of shooters .. you'll 
 never regret any penny spent on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diioz
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  Well when I saw the preview and video for that game I said to me, looks kinda okay, nothing new 
 here. That's the feeling I had after completing the game . This game is nothing new, the only thing 
 is that they incorporate the character health status on the player body itself, and this giving 
 a '' supposedly creepy '' view. Well sometimes things come out of nowhere, sounds make it blow 
 into the tension. Well the ambiance isn't frightening at all... Metal cubic world all the way in 
 a dyed brown or so. They lost themselves between the horror survival game and the rts-shooter genre. 
 Getting yourself up to a bench break completely the suspense of the game and a shop with money... 
 this is completely stupid in space in a ship that have a so lined perspective. The story is not 
 there or almost you cannot really change something in it, it is useless you just play the game, 
 chapter after chapter, 1 step after the other... It start very early to get repetitive. One thing 
 I noticed remarkable was the Play of the actors for the sound clips that you find during the game, 
 that looked real, but didn't added much to the game. Zero gravity was seen in Crysis, this game 
 had walking on walls, okay but the view isn't always watchable. Monster are just not frightening 
 too, looking so much of a trashcan that fell down onto a zombie part likely human. Nothing bizarre... 
 or new to the kind, reminds me of old bad survival horror like resident evil 4, but with less action. There 
 was potential here and they didn't tried to use it. Im still waiting for the game that will scare 
 me enough to take 5 minutes to only put a foot in front of the other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlecruiser93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Space...... In the other words - spaceship. That's what you will see when you start the game for 
 the very first time. Isaac is the name of the main protagonist of the game which you will soon 
 meet. After his ship crashed, he encountered with something what he was never aware about... What 
 is it ? You will soon find out!
  
  From the very beginning, the game tends to be extremely innovative and you will be aware of that. 
 When you get the control of Isaac, your gaming experience will become much better :D. The main 
 reason for that is that the game has absolutely no HUD. Yeah, you heard me ! Your health will be 
 presented by fluorescent spine and for example your ammo will be shown on that specific weapon. 
 Moreover, you will never know how much clips do you have until you check it out in Isaac's inventory. 
 I can say that all this things about no HUD make one great scary atmosphere in the game since it's 
 hard to feel safe when you don't know nothing except that you will soon face some horrible creature 
 prepared to eat your brain. To complicate things, not only that you have to escape, you must also 
 save one specific lady... (I wonder why :D)
  Game play is just great. Controls are quite good, weapons are very interesting and the hole system 
 of saving makes you weep when you reach save point because you don't want to stop slaying hideous 
 monsters. You will be also able to buy or sell things on specific places. In other words, complete 
 restocking of "resources". What about design? Some of you will sure find this game little monotonous 
 due to same spaceship design through almost entire game. But, I can assure you that in this game 
 that's not the case.... The environment will vary from dark hallways to "cute" botanic gardens. 
 Every corner will be a threat, and every blinking lamp will soon darken. I just can't describe 
 this feeling completely..... Monsters are also quite scary but in my opinion.... the best thing in 
 design is Isaac's suit. It sure rocks !!
  And technical characteristics... Well the game has just excellent look. Everything is shining, 
 textures are very detailed and the audio is nothing but boring (: D) . You will be aware of this 
 spectacular graphics as soon you start your game..... Also, I haven't noticed any lags due to high 
 number of monsters which is very good news for people with older machines.... I don't really care 
 how much space does it occupies on HDD so never mind :D
  
  Now bad sides...... In my case, there was just one - lousy boss battles.... Of course the first 2 
 bosses will completely astonish you, but what about others... play and see !
  To sum up, if you want one great "time eater" game, don't hesitate and get this game, best in SF 
 horror series.... And reload often :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nichavgo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  It's been almost a year since I write a review for any game. Indeed, the last review I wrote was 
 about Diablo, on November 4th 2007. It's been more than a year. But I think that this game deserves 
 to be taken on count, so I'll take the pen again (to say it someway) and try to remember old days.
 
  I'll start like most reviewers had, with graphics. Graphics are just great and you don't need 
 a cutting-edge PC to have them running smoothly. In this sense, environments are masterfully done, 
 with a compelling feeling of darkness and monotony in color tones (this isn't a bad thing at all) . 
 Monsters are gruesome and horrific; even though at some point you feel they all look the same. 
 Yet, they design is magnificent, immersing you in the game even more...
  Sound design is just perfect. Every little sound around you makes the ship, the USG Ishimura, live. 
 Furthermore, the sounds coming from the character you play with, Isaac Clarke, are which lead the 
 design to perfection. A monster just jumped out of the vents, you get scared, now add to this the 
 sound of Isaac's own breath and heart bumps. So, in this way, you relate directly with your character: 
 you hear your heart bumping top speed, so you hear his...
  Gameplay. This seems to be the argument-raising point. Gameplay I agree with many others, help 
 you immerse in the story along with graphics and sound design. The over-shoulder display and the 
 absence of traditional HUD systems along with the live hologram display of most logistical elements 
 (map, logs, etc.) tend to have you always vigilant, trying to spend the less time as possible attending 
 them (sometimes you want to spend a lot of time on them, while on a place you think safe for you 
 don't know what you'll find later on; well, you're scared about what you'll find) .
  The story isn't a breakthrough at all, but is good enough to keep you wanting for more. Some ideas 
 are quite original, yet others are widely used across the game industry, to be more precise, across 
 the horror-genre developers. That's the reason why I didn't give this game a 10: too many elements 
 from BioShock and other games, just masterfully combined with gameplay, sound and graphic designs.
 
  Recommended for anyone wanting to jump off his seat, but who doesn't want some adrenaline rushes: 
 recommended for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luciotss
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  
  DEAD SPACE, a very good game, but it seems WITH ALL GAMES OF THRILLER, so close that resembles 
 many residents EVIL IN SOME ASPECTS.
  The FICA DOLL IN A POSITION OPTIMUM because he FICA VERY LARGE ON A SCREEN, the game has no MENU!!
 
  THIS SHOW AND THE BALL AQUESAR SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO get used.
  The monsters ARE LEGAL BUT ALL THAT HAS tread strangulation or TRUCIDALOS HIM TO EVEN FINISH FOR 
 KILLING the beast, This became CHAT UNTIL THE END OF THE GAME.
  BUT THE GAME AND VERY GOOD FOR HIM TO PERFECT GRAPHICS AND SOUND AWESOME RATA.
  Speaking on SOUND 
 BUT, EACH WITH A HOME THEATER YOU DOOR IN THE SOUND Is Much more engaging WHO is playing that the 
 sound XFX OF CREATIVE FICA more realistic, VERY GOOD THE SOUND.
  
  Gameplay GOOD, NOT PERFECT BUT HAS ARRIVED TO BE AND GOOD.
  GRAPHICS WILL BE A PERFECT tester 
 MACHINE HIGH END.
  BEST SOUND OF GENDER THRILLER.
  
  
  THIS AND MY OPINION.
  Instigating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phreek300
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The game looks good all around. The character models were done well. The textures were 
 well defined and with AA on the game looks better than the consoles by a very small amount. The 
 environments were great as well. The blood and bodies were littered everywhere and I loved its 
 look. 
  
  Sound: The game has really nice sound effects and creepy music. When walking through the halls 
 I could hear subtle moaning and far off sounds of Pe'od monsters. These sounds add to the atmosphere. 
 I wish I had a better sound system to really make the sounds pop. The sounds when Isaac stomps 
 is also extremely satisfying. 
  
  Game Play: The game honestly plays better on the consoles with a controller to me, but to each 
 their own. With that being said, the KB and mouse configuration works fine here as well. 
  
  Overall this game is solid and if your rig can handle it is well worth the pick up. This is 
 the best PC game that I have played in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skipper847
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best game ive played so far and im only on chapter 5 and with 12 chapters its 
 amazing. Chapters are long but dont no what there like when you replay the game but i will be definatly 
 be replaying this. Also the graphics are amazing 9.5/10 for that. The only problem is in area the 
 graphics look the same and same color but i guess thats how they got away with amazing graphics. 
 Also at times you can not tell your on a ship but then again it is a big ship :) . Also this is 
 the first game where i have not gotten in a modd when i have been killed as there are so many different 
 ways the enemies can kill you. If you have a 360 controller or another joypad use that as key bord 
 and mouce is so horrible. But the graphics are amazing if you have a decent graphics card.
  
  GO OUT AND BUY NOW!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_tiong
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Very terrifying game, best horrible atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible 
 atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible 
 atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible 
 atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible 
 atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible atmosphere, i like it!!
  Very terrifying game, best horrible 
 atmosphere, i like it!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tailou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  Hard to describe, so good, so immersive and the gameplay... so innovative that makes Dead Space 
 a game that would be hard to forget in a short time period.
  
  The game starts like others, a begining of a movie type game, than it takes you to a innovative 
 gameplay, not just the way you control the "main actor" but also the breath-taking gameplay, suchs 
 as the 3D "information" screens and the unique combat scenes.
  
  Afraid? Yes indeed, very afraid. Had a hard time exploring everything, because every detail look 
 suspicious, a "thing" could jump out of something. The monsters AI are acceptable and the sound 
 is incredibly amazing... specially that wispering voice... creepy, how may times i stop walking, 
 turnned my phones to max and try to understand that wispering ... loved it!
  
  A wondefull game with hours of full enjoyment, worth every penny and still thinking of a sequence... 
 maybe by playing the "lady" side? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is on tom of my list so far for GOTY this year ... amn like everyone who heard of it ... i 
 wasn't really interested in it ... I WAS WRONG ... alltough the game comes with some features from 
 Ressident Evil .... it completly shines in its own way .... it takes the atmosphere from movies 
 such as ALEIN , Event HORiZOn & SunShine & morphes it perfectly in one great pack ! I've seen ppl 
 that compared it to Bioshock & for good reassons it has more logic in to it its not exagerated 
 .... & like Bioshock it has a freeroaming level structure ! The unique thing about the game is 
 taht it keeps you interested in the story thru its unique way of telling the story to cutscenes 
 but still letting u in control in the game + the strategic dezmembrament & the way it uses pzzles 
 & the zero gravity ideea ! 
  From a presentation standpoin the game shines top HIGH ... it may not have the technology that 
 Crysis HAD but let me put this way its 100% perfect for this GAME this game & its presentation 
 were made for each other + the sound desing is the best in the buisness if have to compare it to 
 something it whould be PoP Sands of time , FEAR & Condemned its briliant just be sure you have 
 a good 5.1 system ! The only reasson that i don't give a 10 is ... the fact that you don't have 
 any cooperative or multiplayer play ... It whould have been nice to see you & your friend going 
 side by the side resolving puzzles & watching your back like an alien movie or ... imagine a map 
 full of mobs where you have to survive for 5 minutes ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spineripper
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  This is a pc game, so why am I unable to change the movement keys to the arrow keys, I have always 
 played all my games using the right side of the keyboard. I can't think of any other games where 
 I have not been able to do this. This layout for me has always worked the best. How hard would 
 it have been for the developers to include this? Also the over the right shoulder third person 
 view in game sucks. Not being straight on, makes it just a little bit more difficult to aim and 
 move around. This game gives you the feeling they just took the console version, changed just what 
 they needed to and relabeled it for the pc market, without how much thought of how pc gamers actually 
 play their games.. Hopefully a patch will be forthcoming for the control debacle. I can live with 
 the strange third person view. My low score is solely about these issues. Being able to customize 
 controls is part of what pc gaming is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_cheater34
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  Its the first game how maked anime and an comic series and the horror and the atmosfer in the game 
 its very well constructed at the game you start as issac an engineer your obejective is to know 
 what happend to the issmura when you enter the issmura you will somthings not right in that ship 
 after a few minutes entering the issmura necrofmorfs come from a lot of places and you must take 
 the elevator to escape the monsters. The game on PC is a litte problem with the aim but the game 
 is worth playing but its a litle short i finished after a day but the game realy scears you very 
 bad but after some hours the game is getting boring and the monsters then scare you it will you 
 make angry doing some misions the storyline si good. This game looks like resident evil in space. 
 but why have a chaisaw blade in a ship. But you have very cool weapons and the dismeberment those 
 necromorphs disemeberin them is very nice. But at the game is a monstre thast called the hunter 
 and its very hard to get rid of him in the game. But the Grahpics are awesome and the explosion 
 and the gore engine is cool. And the holografic menues are very inventive ideas. And the zero gravity 
 its cool how are you flying in the ship. And very inventive weapons and the plot is good. But the 
 aim si not very good is a slow on the PC version than the xbox360. Dead Space its a great horro 
 game to play its worth renting it or buying. This game is a most have. If you are a fan of horro 
 games you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microvision82
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  The most realistic atmosphere i have ever seen. compared to the most successful engine unreal 3 
 this engine is more realistic with vivid graphics with such amazing light effects and shadows .. 
 great realistic models and animation although it is very light and running very smooth on various 
 types of pcs.. 
  
  Incredible action you will really breath out from tired and scare after finishing the game . and 
 it was very talent too special with the adding of the Zero gravity for 1st time in game . really 
 made us feel as were in real space 
  Sound effect are perfect serve the horror atmospheric of the game .. it perfectly fit every moment 
 in the action of the game the ambient sounds were really horrific actually it plays the main rule 
 just to make u stop in game sayingplease stooop it ... it scared a lot".
  i hope really EA wont wast such a game which i call it the best of all this year ... waiting for 
 dead space 2 ...
  please Glenn go for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is EA's new entry into the survival horror genre and the decidedly "M" rated game, after 
 a long hiatus since System Shock 2 and Clive Barker's Undying. It is a game that takes few risks, 
 opting mostly to lift its design and storytelling from other games such as Doom 3, System Shock 
 2, and Resident Evil 4. There are worse games to emulate, and to its credit, Dead Space is a highly 
 polished amalgamation of the best elements from those titles. It adds some positive features too, 
 especially in combat. It is far from a perfect game, but the thrills and excellent combat make 
 up for the problems like boring level design and some horror game clichs.
  
  Dead Space feels, in every way, like a game that was extensively play tested before it was released. 
 It excels at minor details that are frequently overlooked by other games, and that is why it is 
 so good in spite of how much it borrows from others. It is, therefore, difficult to describe what 
 makes it work so well. One example of this level of polish is in the ammunition and other power-ups 
 that you find. On the default difficulty level, you always need health packs and ammunition enough 
 to scavenge for them, but the game is never so stingy that you are frequently running on empty. 
 The inventory is perfectly sized, so that you will occasionally need to drop or throw away something, 
 but not very much or very often. The save points are generous and the game auto saves before every 
 tough battle. The difficulty is well calibrated, so that you may find yourself low on health often, 
 but not dying repeatedly. The weapons (except for maybe the flamethrower) are very well balanced. 
 If you are carrying four of them, you will make use of all four.
  
  Speaking of weapons, the game has the best mix of weapons to show up in an action game in a long 
 time. Theoretically, they are engineer's tools like a plasma torch, but they are usually rebranded 
 weapons from other games. Regardless, they feel incredibly powerful and they are all loud, brutal, 
 and fun to use during the game's intense combat. The best weapon in the game might be the Ripper, 
 an apparatus that holds a saw blade a few feet away from you. It is essentially the Doom chainsaw 
 on steroids. If you pick up this weapon, you are sure to enjoy the frequent hacking off of enemy 
 limbs in noisy, bloody fashion.
  
  Dead Space gives you some other tools for getting through the game. Your suit comes equipped with 
 a Stasis module, which allows you to temporarily freeze objects or enemies. It also comes with 
 a Kinesis module, which is the game's Gravity Gun. You will use these tools to solve some simple 
 (and not very interesting) puzzles. You can also use Stasis to get you out of tight spots in combat. 
 Kinesis isn't very useful there. In addition, you find money here and there, which allows you to 
 upgrade your suit and buy items. You also find power nodes, which you can use to upgrade your weapons 
 or your suit. The shops and the upgrading system are simple, but well implemented and the options 
 are well balanced.
  
  Combat is the best part of Dead Space, despite how clearly the game was not designed for the mouse 
 and keyboard. It is similar to Resident Evil with its over-the-shoulder view and laser-sighted 
 weapons, but with some twists. The highly touted "strategic dismemberment" feature is a major success. 
 Instead of "pray and spray" shooting or going for head shots, you immobilize and kill the game's 
 grotesque enemies by shooting them in their legs, arms, or tentacles. It adds a layer of challenge 
 and tactics to the game that other survival horror games do not have. The game typically throws 
 you into combat with small groups (four or less) of enemies in some small areas. There are also 
 a few tougher and more memorable encounters against bigger groups. Surviving requires prioritizing, 
 quick thinking, precise aiming, and occasionally running away to gain some space. If necessary, 
 you can knock back enemies with a strong melee attack or squash them with a devastating curb stomp. 
 There aren't a huge number of enemies, but the game throws in just enough variety and mixes up 
 their combinations to always keep killing enemies fresh. Each kill rewards you with a satisfying 
 shower of blood from severed limbs. Dead Space is a gory game that wears its "M" rating on its 
 sleeve.
  
  The developers for Dead Space clearly understood the importance of audio in the survival horror 
 experience, as the game has some of the best in the genre. When you are exploring the ship, there 
 always seems to be some noise present  a creak, a whisper, or maybe the distant sound of a malfunctioning 
 door. Thanks to the creepy atmosphere that all of the noises creates, Dead Space is a scary game 
 that will have you scared of little noises or startled when your cat jumps onto your computer desk. 
 The richness in sound suddenly becomes an eerie silence during the occasional areas that take place 
 in a vacuum. The weapons all sound excellent and they combine with the screeches of your enemies 
 and your energetic grunts to make combat noisy and tense.
  
  Dead Space has very fine-tuned gameplay, but it could have been a lot better if more care had been 
 put into the level design and mission objectives. There is a disappointing lack of inspiration 
 in the design of the ship and what you do in each chapter. Almost every part of the ship looks 
 exactly the same. After about ten minutes, you have seen almost every texture and every object 
 that there is to see. Dead Space looks a lot like a next-gen Doom 3 or Quake IV. It features a 
 lot of the same style, the same color palette, the brightly colored screens, futuristic equipment 
 making loud noises and spewing bright lights, and so on. To its credit though, what you do see 
 is spectacular, at times. The textures and lighting are top-notch, and the main character's mining 
 suit is detailed and very convincing. One nice touch is the way that your health and stasis meters 
 are both contained on the back of your suit, which negates the need for a HUD.
  
  The mission objectives are stereotypical, mundane action game fare. The missions are generally 
 excuses to get you into combat. Go through this level to fill up the engines with fuel. Then backtrack 
 through the level to start the engines. Go through this level to get the keycard off the dead captain. 
 Then backtrack through the level to access a door. Dead Space pads its 10-hour length with a lot 
 of backtracking and errand-running. The lone example of inspiration in the level design lies in 
 the game's occasional zero-gravity areas.
  
  Dead Space also misses a key trait that made System Shock 2 and Bioshock so special. The ship doesn't 
 feel organic. It feels like a bunch of interconnected video game levels. Where are the living quarters? 
 The recreation areas? The kitchens? System Shock 2 had all sorts of little details like this. It 
 even had a movie theater and sex shops. You really got the feeling that people used to live on 
 the ship. Dead Space lacks this feeling.
  
  Speaking of System Shock 2, it seems to be the biggest inspiration for the game (rumor has it, 
 this game started off as System Shock 3) . The story borrows so heavily from System Shock 2 that 
 you can hardly tell the difference at times. It also borrows the storytelling style i. e. piecing 
 together a recent disaster by finding audio logs randomly scattered in each area. The audio logs 
 were a great idea nine years ago, and they worked well in Bioshock, but the convention feels stale 
 here. System Shock 2 had a better story because it had more than a few key characters whose stories 
 you followed throughout the game. Dead Space simply doesn't pull it off as well. The story doesn't 
 add much to the game.
  
  For the most part, Dead Space is a competent port, but it does have a couple of minor control issues 
 with the mouse. The menus have some kind of mouse acceleration that causes the pointer to rubberband 
 across the screen constantly. Mouse aiming in-game is very slow and insensitive. Wheeling 180 degrees 
 to face an enemy immediately behind you is impossible without taking some punishment. Most enemies 
 spawn in front of you or far behind you and then move slowly, so it's not much of an issue. Dead 
 Space was clearly designed for consoles though, and it's one of the few games that I have played 
 on the PC that I think might be better on a console. If you do play it on the PC, you will at least 
 get some very sharp graphics.
  
  The fact that Dead Space is so recommendable in spite of its flaws is a testament to how well almost 
 everything works. The weapons, the monsters, the combat, the atmosphere  they all combine to make 
 a top-notch entry into the survival horror genre. If you are a fan of this rare type of game, then 
 you owe it to yourself to play the game, or at least check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artistry_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space - This years greatest offering in survivor horror weaves a tale spanning roughly four 
 mediums (comic, animated comic, animated movie, and culminating in the end product - this masterpiece 
 of a game) .
  
  You are Isaac Clarke, intrepid yet ever strong engineer on a search and rescue mission to the USG 
 Ishimura - a CEC (Concordance Extraction Corporation) Planet Cracker, that for all intents and 
 purposes seems in the throes of hell. 
  
  A distress signal has been sent, and as Isaac Clarke you receive a personal help message from a 
 woman (Nicole) who seems to mean a great deal to you. What the hell is going on, why are the people 
 dying, will she survive, or is it already to late ? : (
  
  All reasonable questions and this is your impetus, your drive to succeed this mission which quickly 
 goes wrong as your search and rescue vessel takes irreparable damage upon arrival, crash landing 
 into the very belly of the beast USG Ishimura.
  
  You'll be running, you'll be walking so slow as to pray nothing comes along, you'll have sensations 
 long thought gone and only available to the ten year olds, you'll weep for the beauty of the monsterous 
 soundscapes this offers in stunning 5.1 surround sound. Then you'll want to do it all over again 
 on impossible.
  
  Things to note, :Third Person Perspective, :Hudless HUD, :Light RPG Elements, :no QuickSaves, :Frequent 
 Save Checkpoints, :Forgiving Death Respawn Points
  
  Media in reference to, :Event Horizon, :Sunshine, :Alien, :John Carpenter's The Thing, Doom, Resident 
 Evil, Prey
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: K-A-R-A-S
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  The creators did have a very creative and unique thought when they made this game, and surely they 
 did implement it in Dead Space.
  
  You know how some games leave you really satisfied, like you hit a new discovery or jackpot or 
 like when you have just gained a new experience, that is one of those games, I ain't saying its 
 flawless, after half of it I got really bored that I quit it for a couple of days, the story line 
 is good but not unique on the other hand the Idea of the game and the GUI are perfect also the 
 game play itself it quit pleasing especially the thrills that the game keeps giving you all throughout 
 the game play you'll find yourself in a tensed status (that is how I found myself while playing 
 it) . The game should be considered as a must play game with all the gore in it you'll be pretty 
 much satisfied.
  So to sum it short this game it is worth a SOLID 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djball
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Dead Space could have been a good game, but a few simple design flaws kill it. 
  First and foremost, your big lumbering character is 3rd person over the shoulder, placed slightly 
 off to the left. In doing so, the entire left side of the screen is blocked! No problem, I'll just 
 switch to 'first person' mode.... oh, wait a minute, that option is unavailable : ( Guess I'll just 
 have to look at his backside the entire game.... darn I cant see a thing. Yes, the hud on your 
 suit is cool, but the view is just all WRONG! I find it hard to believe that something like this 
 was overlooked, because it quickly becomes very distracting. So, take limited visibility, mix in 
 some terrible camera movement, clunky controls.... and you've got an excellent recipe for frustration. 
 
  Next issue. Arrow keys are locked! Good grief, we've been gaming for 10 years and a lot of us still 
 use arrow keys. 
  Ok on to the good. Atmosphere! Although it is basically another spaceship corridor shooter, this 
 game oozes atmosphere. Graphics, sound, and level design are top notch and chilling. There is very 
 little music, apart from screeching violins, but this is very effective in creating suspense. Gore 
 is over the top. Today's theme is BLOOD, and there's plenty of it. If you like decapitation, dismemberment, 
 and squirming arteries, this one is for you. As for 'horror', I cant help but feel that DS is trying 
 to be a System Shock 2, but suffers from Doom 3 syndrome... missed on the psych, hit on the repetitive, 
 predictable and irritating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaisellgren
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  My first reactions were somewhat like these: Oh, just another horror game, where you walk and run 
 through tunnels while monsters are chasing you.
  
  No, not at all. A rather simple story and missions do not ruin anything, actually maybe that keeps 
 the focus on the game itself, on the game-play. When you get into the game and understand how everything 
 works, you can really start enjoying it. The attacks of the monsters can end up in different endings. 
 Sometimes you manage to shoot them with a one shot, sometimes you notice that you forgot that one 
 ugly under-developer piece of flesh behind eating your neck!
  
  The difficulty of this game seems to be quite easy. At least for me. I'm playing on the medium 
 level, still I am often using the most basic weapon and can shoot the monsters with a one shot 
 to death, at least sometimes - as long as you do not panic and aim instead ;)
  
  If you are looking forward to buy this game, I would say go ahead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Deadspace... To be honest with you I couldn't wait for the game to come out. 
  I loaded the game on my PC and started playing-the first thing I noticed is a huge lag at the menu 
 screen and the gameplay as well. Turns out we have disable the AA so we can fix that. No problem.
 
  Then the camera and the close fight are pain. It really takes time to get used to them., but enought 
 criticism.
  Everything else in this game is amazing. The atmosphere, the special effects, the sound, the graphics. 
 When I start playing I am very carefull, I just don't wanna get killed. It really can scare the 
 sh*t out of you if you play it with at least 5.1 surround sound and in a dark room by yourself. 
 It is really cool when you are in zero gravity and everything just moves around you. Awesome experience! 
 I have jumped a number of time myself while completely immersed in the gaming.
  The game is a classic. I would recommend it to everyone out there who likes horror action games 
 with creepy atmosphere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azuki
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  I was one of the many people on the internet who got very excited when Dead Space was first announced. 
 Not just because I'm a fan of horror and dark sci-fi but because it represented something non-traditional 
 as far as electronic arts business practices go.
  
  Here we have the first ever violent horror game from this company, and just like Mirrors Edge it 
 gives us hope for the future of gaming as a whole. Next to Activision Blizzard, EA is the largest 
 producer of games in the world so what they do affects the gaming industry to a large extent.
 
  
  For the longest time EA have been known by most cynical gamers as the 'producers of yearly crap' 
 in that rather than spending two or three years making great games they would typically spend a 
 year or less making a single title and then produce extremely similar sequels for many years to 
 come. This would then result in almost every one of these titles being as mediocre as the last.
 
  Need for Speed, Madden, The Sims 2 Expansions, the list goes on.
  
  So it's very nice to see games like Dead Space at long last emerging from the company. While the 
 game itself is hardly the revolutionary new thing we were all hoping for it still gives people 
 like myself faith for the future and at the same time restores some of our respect towards EA.
 
  
  Dead Space puts you in the role of Engineer Isacc Clarke.
  Unlike your typical gaming protagonist he's not a super warrior nor is he packing more guns than 
 the average American firearm enthusiast.
  
  The game emphasizes strategic dismemberment, which basically means if you want to kill things rather 
 than going for the traditional head shot it is usually better to cut off the limbs.
  Because of this most of the weapons are quite different to your typical shooter arsenal. Instead 
 of shotguns, pistols and rocket launchers you get a series of cutting devices, all with alternate 
 modes of fire.
  
  My favorite is the rapid fire plasma cutter that functions similarly to an automatic rifle but 
 instead of firing bullets sends three high velocity projectiles at a single area that eventually 
 cause enough impact damage to make an enemies limb go flying off. 
  
  So on a purely shooter level the game is fine, no real problems at all. The weapons are fun and 
 easy to use and the enemies are nicely varied and usually challenging in different ways. That is 
 until you work out all there weak spots and the game gets pretty darn easy.
  
  Amazingly despite being on the same space ship for 90% of the game each area has its own unique 
 architecture and subtle style with varying looks and cool designs. You never walk through one of 
 these levels and think 'man this looks just like the last level' because for the most part they 
 don't which is nice.
  
  The main problem with the game is the enemies rarely ever emerge from different areas. They're 
 either already walking around, waiting around a corner or are climbing around in air vents and 
 likely going to fall out of the ceiling or a wall vent at some point.
  
  You will never see an enemy come crashing through a wall or effect the environment around you in 
 any way whatsoever to get to you. Heck they seem to be incapable of even opening doors. 
  
  This is the exact same problem that plagued Doom 3 and brought the games potential way down. Yes 
 that's right monster closet syndrome. Instead of having enemy encounters being varied or unpredictable 
 the developers lazily decide to just throw in a few spawn points and set triggers for the player. 
 Step into area X and monster Y spawns at point Z, rinse and repeat.
  
  The first couple of times its startling and unexpected but then it happens over and over until 
 it gets to the point where you see an enemies body on the ground, knowing you haven't recently 
 killed it and by now you've realizes its alive and just waiting for you to get near so you whip 
 out a gun, kill it, bam whole sequence is rendered pointless.
  
  Now to be fair there are some sequences that vary up the encounters you come across, like the giant 
 intestine looking tentacle things that kill you instantly if you don't hit there weak spots fast 
 enough. Problem is even these eventually become repetitious.
  One enemy in particular is a nod towards Resident Evil 3's Nemesis in that no matter what you do 
 he will continue to stalk you and force you to switch up how you play for a little while. Sadly 
 this is the only truly unique enemy as even the bosses are all basically the same 'I have a weak 
 spot, please shoot it' affair. It is such a shame as the creatures themselves are very well designed 
 and it shows that if given a little more time some good variation amongst each of these could have 
 been achieved outside the melee, ranged and swarm varieties. 
  
  Dead Space should have been a survival horror game but like Resident Evil 4 before it, it has taken 
 the 'horror shooter' angle instead. It's very violent and some times messed up but never ever scary. 
 And considering how frequently you come across ammo and health for your super weapons you can hardly 
 call it a 'survival' game at all.
  
  Part of what made games like silent hill and resident evil really good during there earlier incarnations 
 was the fact that each and every enemy was potential death and your chances of living verses dying 
 were always much more skewed towards the latter. It gave you a sense of dread and tension like 
 so few games ever seem to do anymore. Because of this you developed a connection to your character, 
 what they weren't feeling you clearly were and it made the experience so much more satisfying and 
 intense.
  
  Dead Space would have been a far greater experience if the enemies were much more dangerous and 
 difficult to kill. The game only gets difficult when you encounter many of them at the same time. 
 I wanted to be terrified of every single individual necromorph that came my way, instead I find 
 myself yawning and just mowing them down with absurd ease. When I was inevitably killed it was 
 for no other reason other than being overwhelmed by sheer numbers. Not cool.
  
  The anti gravity segments are probably the highlight of the games gameplay as no other game has 
 done this before. Having to jump around in a 3D space makes some parts of the Dead Space feel quite 
 original, a particular boss fight involving this mechanic was alot of fun indeed. Some areas like 
 this also have no oxygen so having to get things done within a time limit while also having to 
 worry about what surface you should be on added some much needed tension to these puzzle segments. 
 It did get kind of annoying though when enemies would randomly pop up to get you.
  
  Dead Space also for some strange reason features a gravity gun rip off that really wasn't needed 
 at all if the player could you know, use there characters arms to do things.
  The time slowing ability also seems a little tacked on and although gives combat a little more 
 variety the fact neither of these things are explained or make any sense within the games world 
 is somewhat jarring. Having to move platforms around with gravity manipulation is one thing but 
 moving boxes and pulling levers with it is just stupid.
  
  There are some things the game does do quite well. The atmosphere for example is very well executed, 
 especially in the sound department. There is this one room, filled with machines and a lot of air 
 vents and I swear the sound coming from them is the most messed up thing you will ever hear in 
 the history of games. I just stood in the room for like two minutes thinking; 'holy crap wh what 
 IS that?' 
  
  And every now and then you'll here whispers and you'll turn around and nothing will be there, creepy 
 yet awesome. The lighting in Dead Space is also very good, heck the visuals are for the most part 
 quite amazing. Clearly alot of time was spent making the Ishimura look and feel a very certain 
 way and in this area the game nails it. 
  
  Now as for the story of the game it is on paper very compelling, I even watched the internet comics 
 and got totally in to it but sadly the game itself does a poor job of delivering it outside the 
 typical environment clues and some text and audio logs. A little more character interaction would 
 have been nice and perhaps a story that didn't rely so much on the player walking in to rooms and 
 having to work out what happened for themselves.
  It doesn't really help that Isacc doesn't give off any emotion at all, he never speaks and never 
 seems to even look at other characters when they're speaking to him. He just stands there in his 
 looping default stand animation. Granted you barely ever get to see his face still some head bobs 
 and some hand gestures could have made all the difference.
  
  As for Isacc's motivation, it is virtually non existent. Early on you find out he's looking for 
 his girlfriend on the Ishimura and a combination of his lack of expression coupled with the lack 
 of any kind of back story or plot development as to why we should care for her leads to a character 
 to player connection that feels forced and half baked.
  
  The vast majority of the game is spent fixing various devices or locating various items so you 
 and your two other companions can find out what happened on the ship and attempt to get it running 
 again. Never mind the fact that there might be survivors worth searching for or that the player 
 character we're suppose to care about is doing nothing whatsoever to find his supposed love interest. 
 
  
  So yes an ambitious game that tried to be something brilliant but ultimately failed due to some 
 bad design choices and a handful of poor writing decisions. Despite that the game is still very 
 fun and does bring some new things to the third person genre. If all you want to do is carve up 
 some freaky mutants in a messed up place then this game is a winner for you. If you're after a 
 solid story and a terrifying experience you are going to be disappointed unfortunately.
  
  Thanks for reading my review. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GILBERTUS72
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  When you start playing, you get an impression of "yet seen". But if you go on, you'll appreciate 
 the monstrous enemies, the good interface, the great graphic complex (marvellous if you got crossfire!!!) , 
 and, in my opinion, the innovative "atmophere zero" phases. 
  Also the story is quite interesting, but similar to that of doom 3. 
  Good the necessary and 
 frequent shops to buy new (and lethal) goods. there are elements close to a RPG game type, like 
 the improvement of your suit and accessories
  Applause to programmers, who made a good job about fluidity in game and fastness in loading (lake 
 the transition from a deck to another) .
  Maybe, the only limit is the absence of a better and wider choice of wepons.
  hard level is challenging. 
 Worth playing for many reasons.
  My real vote 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 288819
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  really good game, not what I expected, thought it was just some hyped up game. they did this right, 
 creepy yes, gory ofcourse but I still think Silent Hill series owns the the freaky and creepy scene. 
 The weapons in this game well aren't really weapons, they are mining tools used as weapons very 
 smart thinking on that aspect, graphics are great, the scenery from the vacuum of space is to be 
 adored but not for long or else you will run out of air. Love the behind the shoulder shooting, 
 good story line. Reminds me of Aliens and the thing movies, very brilliant on that part. I especially 
 love it when you go out into the vacuum of space. The monsters were geniously done, this is the 
 game alien movie lovers have been waiting and wanting for! I don't know what else to say but your 
 videogame collection should definitally should have this game in there, buy it, you will not be 
 disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooya_d
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  this game is really one of the best third-person shooter I've ever played and I promise you that 
 you will experience a real horror
  game . level design is very good and most quests are reasonable .
  
  there are some good and 
 bad thing about it after all.
  
  good
  1. really fun gameplay
  2. great sound .....
  3. you must use different strategies to bring your enemy down
  4. quests are well-designed
  
 
  bad:
  
  1. anti-aliasing does not work (almost)
  2. sometimes your character location is right between you and enemy which is annoying
  3. some 
 weapons are not very useful
  
  .................
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabrielsoe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  The game starts very quickly (which is a very good thing) .
  although a lot of the game elements are familiar, like the weapon swing (Dark Sector) , Object holder 
 (Half Life) and more...
  The game itself has a feel of something new and exciting.
  The moment I started playing, the game started at a perfect pace.
  The interface is one of the 
 best I have ever seen and to my opinion will be the envy of most game designers.
  
  The Game is not as scary as everybody warned me it would be, but it still has it's moments.
  
 
  the good:
  1. Atmosphere 10/10
  2. Graphics 10/10
  3. Sound 10/10
  4. Game Play 09/10
  
  The games I enjoyed: (for reference)
  Gears of war
  Max Payne
  
 God Of War
  Fallout 1,2,3
  Call Of Duty
  Oblivion
  well you get the idea...
  
  Dead Space is a game you should buy and experience alone, at least for first 3 hours.
  "One of 
 the best games of the year"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your an engineer going to a ship to fix it. Little do you know something has infected the 
 crew.
  
  Missions: Point A-B, Kill this and that blow this up. Retrive this to open a door kinda things.
 
  
  Controls: FPS style controls.
  
  Features: Great Story, Great graphics and audio.
  
  AI: Great AI. The enemys seem to get angryer with your every shot.
  
  Graphics:. The enviroments 
 are very open and wide and are also very detailed which you dont really find in most games now. 
 Amazing graphics
  
  Audio: The sound really creates the enviroment for this game. The horror music plays when something 
 bad is about to happen and the creepy ambient adds to the creepy enviroments.
  
  Requirements: Mouse and Keyboard
  
  The Good: Great graphics, story and sound
  
  The Bad: 
 Bugs and Crashes.
  
  The Ugly: Short : [
  
  Replay Ability: Medium.
  
  The Bottom Line: a great horrow shooter that although does not last long, is still a great play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jango_monte
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I played this game, because i watched a very cool trailler on the internet, so i gave it a try. 
 I JUST LOVED IT!!! The cammera view, is refreshing, gives you the sensation of beeing inside the 
 game, being you the main character, i agree that sometimes it's not that practical to kill those 
 creepy creatures, but i mean it's realistic right? He takes some time to turn, thats how it works 
 in reality.
  Now, i've played it all on easy mode, i'm now going on medium, in order to understand better the 
 story behind the whole game, because, i don't think its a very clear story, at least in the game, 
 because only when i saw the movie, i understood more of it.
  Some great aspects i must add are the sounds and graphics. The sounds are just FANTASTIC, i mean 
 when i was walking through those corridors and i heard noises all arround me, from them running 
 through the vents? I was always stoping, waiting for something to jump right in front of me. Oh, 
 and those whispers, like prayers? I swear it, it creeped me, a lot. The graphics are perferct too, 
 i mean, the environment precision was very well made, and the suit? Its so detailed, really i loved 
 it. I prefered this one to Doom, because this one's scenario was a lot better i think, not too 
 DARK, yet very litlle lightned sometimes :P
  I think this is a game you must play, with no lights on around and the sound at a considerable 
 rate, so you can hear every litlle word by the whisperers =P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sososoh
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of genuine games with a solid story behind, and by all means this one is a winner, 
 but!!:
  
  I went to the store so keen to buy Dead Space after all the hype about it, installed it and started 
 playing through the first 6 hours, I then stopped playing and uninstalled the game!!.
  
  To me, the last thing I would ever need after a tedious day is to add more depression to my life, 
 and that is what this game is all about: Freakishly sick horror and a great deal of quality depression. 
 
  
  Dead space is almost a "Silent Hill in outer space" with extra surprise-type horror that keeps 
 going on and on during the whole 25-hour of the game play, lots of repetitive missions but with 
 different approaches to scare you out of your flesh, this may appeal to some, but may NOT be appreciated 
 by many many others. specially when there are other existing and upcoming titles having a more 
 relieving and enjoyable scenarios. 
  
  It is sad though, all other aspects of dead space are truly remarkable: the visual quality and 
 design, the depth in implementing the story ,the interaction approach, and sound quality although 
 I had to Keep the volume at its lowest in order to continue playing without getting a heart attack. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tachsniper
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  is the current generation of gamers so brain damaged and force fed their HALO and Resistance 2 
 that they have forgotten genres of games exists beyond FPS?
  
  
  Dead space is a Survival Horror game. Meaning is scares the daylights out of you and the objective 
 is to survive till the end of the story. its not a kill em all with an obnoxious amount of firepower. 
 i can't believe review after review i read calling it a FPS. do your homework kids, Resident Evil 
 , Silent hill, Alone in the dark (original) and Fatal Frame, survival horror greats that are NOT 
 FPS. Dead Space continues that tradition and continues it well. 
  
  now that the rant is over on to the review 
  
  This is a Survival horror game at it's finest. 
 paying homage to those that came before it like Silent hill and the original Resident Evil. The 
 location has changed no longer are we in a city infested with Evil. now we are on a derelict Spaceship 
 with something gone terribly wrong. After 10 minutes in the game i had the wonderful "we're not 
 in Kansas anymore" feeling along with a hefty dose of "OMG this is awesome!" Graphically i finally 
 got to see what my dual SLIed 8800's could do and it is breathtaking. Sound is solid and creepy 
 just as i would expect experienced best on a nice 7.1 set or some good headphones. Gameplay is 
 solid and works the model of RE4 before it with the close over the shoulder view. sadly the view 
 either you love it or hate it theirs no middle ground. It gets you the player close to the action 
 witch is a good thing but severely limits your view behind Issac. Maybe that's what they had in 
 mind in the first place. I love how there is no traditional HUD in Dead Space. everything from 
 your ammo count to your trusty map is done in real time holograms withing the gaming environment. 
 major Kudos for that innovation. It makes you feel as if your a part of the world, as if your a 
 spectator and not someone who is controlling the main character through this window with a health 
 meter and other non immersible nonsense in the way. a very fresh way to show the player the necessary 
 information while remaining "in the world". while the overall feel of the game is spooky and creepy 
 to get those wet your pants moments it uses the old tried and true method of sudden happenings 
 to scare you, like your walking down a hallway and before you know it the game music will stop 
 and then BANG something jumps out at you. its an old technique certainly by now but it still works. 
 Overall it's a fantastic game and i for one have missed epic Survival horror games. Dead Space 
 fill the gap very nicely and freshens up the old war horse that is Survival Horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  Dead space was looking very good before it came out, had hype, and people were interested. makings 
 of a good game. Well that wait is over and i think it is a bit of a disapointment.
  
  Good: The cool resident evil shoot the legs til they die is pretty good, makes it not just like 
 another copy of fear. Many monster makes for a adrenelin pumping adventure through the massive 
 as ship. The fact that the game starts of giving you so much ammo that you cant carry it all, then 
 basically stopping that supply after the 3rd mission is a great transition, making you feel a false 
 sense of security.
  
  Bad: Well the guns look all flash and stuff, but it basically a pistol, an assult rifle, and gun 
 that shoots a missive beam (that original) and a mine dropping.... thing, a flamethrower and a 
 thing that makes your kenitics better..... yeah. The camera angle in tight corners makes for a 
 quick death. Puzzles are just plain stupid. its DMC4 stupid. There is one puzzle that is so frustrating, 
 i took me 3 days to finish it. ONE FREKIN PUZZLE!!!! its in chapter 9 i think. you have to jump 
 to a crater to plant a bomb, but there are these revolving things that jsut crush you. the only 
 way i got to finish this was a creature hit me while i was on it right after i finished putting 
 it on the... rock. if you do see the animation, after he plants the bomb, he jsut stands there 
 for a bout a few seconds, but i basically takes the revolting things about 5 seconds to get from 
 1 place to another. story is the bare minimum a game can have. to get on the ship, and find a way 
 tog et off..... WHAT!!!!
  
  Dead space is action paced for the first few missions, but then it just gets boring from there, 
 the same ol thing over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LXRUBI1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Dead space has got to have the best story line out of any game so far. Im not gonna ruin it for 
 anybody but holy **** what a hell of a story. Also the gameplay was crazzzzy, talk about brutal. 
 This game is like a cross breed of Half Life 2 and Doom and throw in some bioshock while your at 
 it. I couldnt drop this game once i had it, right from the beginning the story starts off strong 
 and dozent let up. The creatures are gory, brutal, and above all scary! The sounds in this game 
 are really good, im never gonna play this game again with headphones on. This game is also very 
 long, so take your time cuz i doubt your gonna beat this whole game in one night. The graphics 
 are great, could be a little better I guss but they were great enough for me. The gameplay was 
 a little wired at first but once I plugged in my xbox controller it was alll goood, the camera 
 never gave me any problems that some peopl might have said. I loved the fact that thers no dashboard 
 to moniter your health, it made it seem like I was watching a movie! Anywaz this game you will 
 not regret buying, and is my favorite so far im my gaming life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is an outstanding experience; it takes ideas from many games and puts them together 
 with great implementation and polish. Dead Space is close to Doom 3 and Bioshock mixed together, 
 but it draws more inspiration from many games. You play as Isaac, an engineer set out to repair 
 the USG Ishimura; a mining vessel that has taken aboard a "marker". You find however that things 
 are not well and the dead crew have been transformed into hideous unrelenting creatures. You and 
 a few others battle to discover what has happened, get ship systems working and get out of danger.
 
  
  One of the key action elements in Dead Space is the dismemberment. You will need to target limbs 
 to slow or stop enemies. Some will pretend to die only to jump at you when you approach; the animation 
 implemented with this system is first rate. Monsters drag themselves over the floor if they have 
 no legs and get knocked back from fire. This makes the combat more involving and makes you continually 
 think during battle. Another key element to the combat is the stasis pack, it's a localised bullet 
 time effect, and you apply it to objects and creatures slowing them down greatly to give yourself 
 time to remove limbs or focus on other threats. This is used for puzzles and for monster battles 
 and sometimes necessary to progress, a recharge station will prevent you running out. Finally a 
 gravity gun style effect is attached to Isaac's suit, allowing him to hurl objects or pull in objects 
 from a distance, quite essential in Zero-G environments.
  
  Dead Space is played via a very close over the shoulder view, perhaps to increase claustrophobia 
 as you can't see what's behind you unless you turn Isaac. Isaac won't turn instantly in his heavy 
 suit so don't expect FPS style aiming. Positioning is very important not just to avoid damage but 
 to see oncoming nasties. The weapons at hand are varied and do better against some enemy types 
 than others; all have alternate fire modes which again change their tactics just to give the player 
 some more choice. The game places "stores" fairly regularly throughout, for you to sell or buy 
 weapons, ammo and items and upgrade that suit. There is a bit of frustration juggling inventory 
 items with those found on the ship just to reload a half empty weapon but it's not a serious problem. 
 All weapons can be upgraded via a node system to increase damage, capacity, fire speed etc. 
  
  The levels are fairly linear, doors are locked and unlocked as required but you have the choice 
 to explore storage rooms and side passages to find extra items, sometimes with some risk involved. 
 This might reveal more about what has happened via audio, text or even video logs. The game has 
 no HUD, health, ammo and video messages are displayed in the world or on Isaacs's suit which helps 
 immerse the player in the rich world. There is also quite a variety of enemies, again requiring 
 diverse tactics to overcome, the enemies can enter vents and reappear just beside you if they wish 
 too. Dead Space does a great job scaring the player, especially early on. Later levels are more 
 action packed with numerous enemies to conquer. Some sections bring quite a shock to the system 
 and the death scenes are quite bloody.
  
  Zero-G and Vacuum are two environments that are used throughout the game. Zero-G environments are 
 full of floating hazards but you are able to launch yourself from wall to wall which re-orientates 
 the world completely. This can be quite disorientating but the environments are kept minimal around 
 these segments. Vacuums are basically timed environmental hazards. You may need to cross an external 
 area that has no atmosphere, your oxygen meter on your suit will tell you how long you have to 
 live, and air cans aid you. During a vacuum sounds are muffled, as they are transferred via vibrations 
 in your suit, so the creatures may surprise you many times. The Vacuum and Zero-G sections are 
 well distributed and not long or tiresome.
  
  Dead Space established a detailed bask story prior to release via a movie prequel "Downfall" and 
 a comic strip, giving fans a chance to delve deeper into the story if they so wish. If you watched 
 some of it, the links between the game and back-story are very nice additions. Artistically Dead 
 Space is a class above, the engine is used superbly well, the design of the ship is outstanding 
 from the bridge to the cargo bay and the little touches in the environment really do make it stand 
 above the norm. From a sound perspective the game is also incredible, muffles in the walls, brilliant 
 voice acting, heavy weapon sounds and brilliant shrieks of pain. The horror music fits perfectly 
 although sometimes it will start before an enemy is visible decreasing the surprise when it does 
 appear.
  
  There are frequent save points, and the game does save in between them to prevent virtually any 
 back tracking, aside from a section in the middle and some key locations (like the bridge) there 
 is very little of the ship Isaac sees more than once which keeps it fresh. On normal difficulty 
 the game will kill you, but perhaps not as much as a horror game could, then again it completely 
 avoids any frustration and still keeps you on your toes. The game last around 10 hours, but varies 
 with amount of exploration. Some of the end chapters feel a little shorter, but the game still 
 retains its initial quality and creates its own unique interesting universe that you'll hate and 
 love to be a part of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  Dead Space, EA newest entry to Survival Horror Genre, which boosted the hype with its strategic 
 dismemberment & HUD less game promise, and it turns out, that everything they promised about the 
 game is actually incorporated, and it is too good to become the next hot favorite franchise, leaving 
 behind likes of Silent Hill & Resident Evil with its horrific & grotesque portrayal of catastrophe 
 which hit the crew of USS Ishimura.
  
  Dead Space Opening scenes, only tell you a very small tidbits about , how USG Ishimura , a planet 
 cracking ship (For Minerals) is out of contact, and your small engineering ship , with a crew of 
 5 (including you, as Isaac) is going to land on it to repair it. As soon as your ship comes in 
 contact with Ishimura's Gravitational pull, disaster starts to happen, and believe me , there is 
 no turning back. Background story is revealed to the player via text & video logs, which are placed 
 through out Ishimura.
  
  The Biggest achievement of Dead Space is in the simplicity of In game world interaction. There 
 is simply no HUD at all, only holograms of menu's, buttons etc. You are always in the game, there 
 are no pause menus, all the logs, benches, computer stations are presented in a clear crisp holograms, 
 and you can easily interact with them using your controls. You health bar is displayed in your 
 spine, which depletes as you get hit, along with a round stasis meter, as it is third person shooter, 
 you are always looking at the back of ISaac, and can easily find out about his health. Clips for 
 weapons are also displayed in same holographic view, so that you are always aware about the remaining 
 clip size.
  
  Make no mistake, Dead Space is a linear game, and it only lets you explore the areas, where you 
 are needed the most. The Game is divided in to chapters, and most of the chapters lets you explore 
 the new areas of Ishimura, along with old ones. Areas are pretty much diverse considering the game 
 is on a Star ship. My personal eye candy favorite is The Ishimura's Deck. The best piece of game 
 are when you explore zero gravity areas, where you can run along the walls, jump towards the roof 
 of the ship, and land on it , thanks to Magnetic Boots of Isaac. However, these zero G experiences 
 are only 1/4 of the game.
  
  Graphic wise, Dead Space is a stunner. Developers have done a very good job with the levels, Creatures 
 & Other Game assets. It is not good as Crysis, but it has its own class, and every now and then, 
 you will come across something very nice and detailed.
  
  Fighting in Dead Space is different and very intense from other shooters, in a sense, that you 
 cannot just kill the necromorphs (Creatures) with a head shoot, instead you have to cut off their 
 limbs as soon as someone attacks you, otherwise you will be in deep trouble. Cutting off the limbs, 
 doesn't mean, that the baddie is down, it can come up again from behind, or from a ventilation 
 shaft, so it is a very good idea to Stomp the creature after it is down, to kill it ones for all. 
 Ammunition conservation is very necessary, as Ishimura lacks weapon caches, that is why Isaac relies 
 on modified Engineering tools to encounter the enemies. The limitation of Ammo can be overcome 
 by two abilities Kinesis and Stasis. Kinesis lets you move the objects and the Razor sharp limbs 
 of Necomorphs as a weapon, where as Stasis helps you in solving the fast moving machinery puzzle 
 or slowing down the enemies. Both of these powers are very handy, but can deplete very fast. It 
 has some very memorable End level boss fights, including several attacks from a giant tentacle, 
 as well as a large lavathion monster with tentacles and a mouth like a squid in Zero gravity. Dead 
 space , always keeps you on the edge with its monsters stalking you when you least expected.
  
  Role playing comes in working , when you are upgrading Isaac Suit and Weapons along with abilities 
 on strategically scattered work benches, where you can spend Power Nodes for upgrade. Extra Power 
 Nodes, Weapons, Med Packs, Air cans etc can be purchased from the stores and can be harvested from 
 lockers and baggage.
  
  Every level gives you a one very good fight with a mini boss like creature, and it always comes 
 up , when you least expect of it. Creatures are very different in size and shapes, can be very 
 Dangerous looking (tentacles ) or cute little guys (baby necromorphs) , some of these are very fast, 
 and some of them are very strong. Every time, stasis ability plays a major role to overcome these 
 foes, but overall types are quite less, and the developers have just changed the skin to distinguish 
 them from one and another.
  
  Dead Space is one fine example of survival horror genre, and after playing it, you will be wanting 
 more of it, from every game of this type.
  
  A very best by EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  If any of you read my previous reviews, you'll find that I'm very fond of the Penumbra series as 
 the best horror game in history.
  
  Well, that just changed.
  
  Dead Space is one of the most engrossing, immersive, beautiful (in a sick way) , gory and scary 
 games I've ever experienced.
  
  But let's start from the beginning.
  
  You are Isaac Clarke, engineer on a rescue mission for the Ishimura, a capital mining ship. Nobody 
 answers hailing so you are part of the crew sent to see what went wrong. Needless to say, things 
 went really, really wrong.
  
  One of the things to note from this game is that, despite at first glance it may be a simple premise 
 (creeps in a ship) , the story actually goes far deeper than that. Not only you are also searching 
 for your significant other, one of the medics aboard the Ishimura, but you'll also notice the creeps 
 were people from the ship, and that whatever caused their horrible mutations is more than simple 
 sci-fi mumbo jumbo.
  
  On the technical side, this game is flawless. The graphics are not only gorgeous, but also stylish 
 and efficient. They are highly scalable and can run in not-so-beefy machines.
  
  However, the star of the show is the sound. With the help of prolific foley artist Alyson Dee Moore, 
 the ship and it's "crew" come to life in a way at least I never thought possible in a game. Not 
 only the sound variety is staggering (on 17 hours of gameplay I never noticed a repeated sound 
 more than once or twice) , but also strange in it's nature, and more than disturbing in it's design. 
 I think the closest feel this game would have would be to that cult-classic movie Event Horizon, 
 but way better.
  
  The artistic design also deserves a mention of it's own. The creeps are genuinely bizarre, with 
 slight hints of humanity in them, like some limbs and faces, but their corruption makes them an 
 ungodly sight. Plus, they can only be killed by dismemberment (they are some sort of undead creature) , 
 and most die if you chop an specific limb off, making it more intense than usual. Specially since 
 loping the heads off won't do.
  
  Another thing that adds up to the tension is the HUDless interface. Even the inventory is managed 
 in real time inside the game (with a fantastic design - no silly stuff like in Alone In The Dark) , 
 which can be quite tense if you are in air shortage or something like that.
  
  The game also holds two interesting, yet completely unoriginal concepts, which are Kinesis and 
 Stasis. The first one is a gravity gun of sorts, and is mostly used to solve puzzles. However, 
 if you are desperate, you can use it to fling objects as weapons. Stasis is a bullet time of sorts. 
 However, it freezes determinate objects, like a single creep, or a door. Also used mostly in puzzles, 
 but if you find the creep is too darn fast (and you will find most of them are) , it will slow it 
 down for you to mutilate.
  
  All this summed up make up for a fantastic, no-nonsense experience. You WILL be scared, you WILL 
 be surprised and you WILL be glad you bought this game.
  
  Best horror game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aj_marquez
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  First things first, if you want to get the best experience with this game, play it in hard difficulty 
 level. It will be tough, sometimes down right frustrating, but once you get to the end and reap 
 the rewards, you will understand.
  
  This might well be one of the best games of the year, with its gruesome, grim and gritty graphic 
 awesomeness and its top notch gameplay, flawed controls notwithstanding. The story won't win a 
 novel, but it is very good nevertheless and manages to immerse you in a desperate quest to solve 
 the mystery of the USG Ishimura's demise and to get out of the damned ship.
  
  The fact that you can save a clear game and go through the whole thing with every single item you 
 had when you finished the game just adds a whole new level to the experience.
  
  To put it in a nutshell, this game is a survival horror classic of old with a presentation of today. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexngwl
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  Is a long time since I wrote a review but this game has its own uniqueness. First of all, I wasn't 
 the type like to play horror and sci-fiction games but I tried it out and at the end, this game 
 is without any disapointment.
  
  I agreed with most of the reviewer regarding the gruesome atmospheric and certainly one of the 
 scariest game. For the first 3 hours is totally insane and will take your breath away with grotesque 
 environment, mutated human hopping from ventilation system, and much more. But I found the scariest 
 place is in the Medical Centre same goes for Bioshock. Anyone agree with me?
  
  On the other hand, I would like to give a full praise on the sound. This is very well suited for 
 this game. Background on the sound environment is superbly done that link to your heart beat, making 
 you nervous, and gone wild.
  
  While with engaging story line and plots, will keep you awake still midnight. Just switch off your 
 room lights, head on hi-definition stereo, and enjoy the game. I bet most won't turn around your 
 head while playing this game.
  
  Here is some summary:
  
  Graphic: A- (Quite good. Very fast loading)
  Sound: A+ (Superb)
  Story: A- (Just a adaptation 
 from the comics but still engaging)
  GamePlay: A (Shoulder view quite frustrating to turn around but it's actually making you nervous 
 when mutated alien attacking you from behind)
  Equipment: B+ (Very well balance and limited ammo)
  
  Cheers.... waiting for Dead Space 2 (Anyone 
 agreed?)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Babak2005
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I turn antialiasing on but there is no diffrence! no antialiasing, no graphic, no gaming, thats simple. many 
 game released these years had this problem that have no antialiasing system on them so that is 
 a total letdown on graphics in games and they wont realize that. and i want to know why they doing 
 this to new games? most of games have this problem, not all. im telling u antialiasing is the most 
 important things in graphic. i hope they fix it soon. and one more thing,,, camera control is poor, very 
 poor. they must soon release a patch for this to fix problem. im getting a headeach when im playing 
 this game because of poor camera control that i cant see well so i have to look in bad camera control, im 
 telling you my eyes get tired when playing this game. its very bad you know. so dont play this game 
 if you think it has a bad effect on your eyes because you want your eyes for better games right? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneHusky
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a horror, suspense sci-fi thriller shooter game where the player takes control in 
 3rd person shoulder view of Issac, a miner who arrives with 4 other colleagues to the planet cracker 
 mining vessel "Ishimura"
  
  Not much is known about Issac of why is he even there except maybe he has a gal in mining vessel, 
 after landing roughly it soon becomes obvious that the crew of 5 is down to 3 and that the ship 
 is infested with aliens that look and sound like zombies from space, they also have tentacles and 
 some move very quickly.
  
  Soon afterwards Issac finds himself a plasma cutter that suspiciously resembles a gun, but its 
 a mining tool, even if it can fire plasma shots from a distance with uncanny accuracy, more that 
 enough to cut an alien's arm of limb with 1 or 2 shots. He also finds other tools in the ship that 
 he can use or 'sell' at an automated store for credits that he can also use to buy new 'mining' 
 tools or a military pulse rifle.
  
  A little later on our hero finds himself a device that lets him slow down enemies or equipment 
 and another that allows him to pick up stuff in the air and move them around or use those things 
 as thrown weapons.
  
  Wait a second... I swear I have played this before in the late 90's... YES! Its System Shock 2 
 being remade in full 3D with shaders, lights, shadows and amazing textures.
  
  Lets do a bit of comparison shall we?
  System Shock 2:
  Space zombies
  Fire throwing monkeys
 
  Big running zombie
  Telekinesis
  The many
  Giant mucus growing through and on ship
  Dr. Janice Polito providing comm support
  Vending machines
  Enter the "Rickenbacker" to get 
 something from it.
  
  Dead Space:
  Space zombies
  Needle throwing baby zombies.
  Big running alien
  Force
  The church
  Giant mucus growing through and on ship
  A younger 
 chick providing comm support
  Vending machines
  Enter the "Valor" to get something from it.
  
  What is this? Are they separate games? just 
 a few years pass and we have finally a remake many system shock fans were expecting, well here 
 you go boys and girls.
  Dead Space is System Shock 2, oh sure, we have a couple of extras, we actually have a name on our 
 soldi... miner yes, remember Issac is a miner and he can walk outside ships in open space for 2 
 minutes or so and his mining equipment is far better than the real 'weapons' from the military.
 
  
  There is really nothing new in this game that has not been used before, but being honest to things, 
 what Dead Space has over other games is the way it simplifies and makes it easier to work around 
 all the aspects of the items the player uses, everything is really easy to do, no fancy gimmicks, 
 just straight on upgrading and buy/sell, not as complex as its predecessors.
  
  Overall the game is pleasant and fun to play, the entire thriller effect is always present even 
 on some areas where it should have happened, where you would expect some more action (stage 8 or 
 so) .
  
  As far as fun goes so far I liked the game quite much, it is a good remake, think will play it 
 again and see what else I have missed on it.
  
  LH.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a sci-fi horror game that reminds me a lot of the System Shock games and a bit of 
 the Alien movie series. Actually, I'd even go as far as saying that Dead Space is the closest thing 
 to a System Shock 3 we'll probably ever get.
  
  The premise is simple. You play Isaac, a deep space miner, who, together with his crew mates, is 
 sent on a fairly routine search and rescue mission. A huge planetcracker class vessel called the 
 Ishimura hasn't been responding to radio communications for some time. They think it's a mechanical 
 problem of some sort so off they go to fix it. Problem is they're wrong. The ship has been overrun 
 by some hideous creatures called necromorphs. Needless to say, docking with the Ishimura proves 
 problematic and now you're trapped on it and must fight to survive. The story is told through (usually 
 long distance) interactions with characters and logs of all sorts which you find scattered about. 
 Overall, this aspect is nothing special but it provides enough incentive to press forward and see 
 it through to the end.
  
  In terms of gameplay, Dead Space is a survival third person shooter with some interesting features. 
 First off, you can carry around up to four weapons although the game has a much larger selection. 
 You'll get to use plasma cutters, industrial saws, flamethrowers or more conventional (for sci-fi 
 games at least) weapons like energy rifles. You'll need to be well equipped if you want to survive 
 so scavenging for equipment will be important. Ammo especially. But your inventory space is limited 
 so you'll need to select only what you can use. You can also buy and sell items from equipment 
 stores scattered throughout the Ishimura, provided you have enough credits.
  
  Another nice feature of this game is the upgrade system. You can use power nodes (which you find 
 by exploring) to improve weapons and armor, but only at an upgrade bench. For weapons, you can 
 improve damage, ammo capacity and reload times. For Isaac's suit, you can increase inventory space, 
 health points and oxygen supply capacity. It's a simple system but it certainly adds to the game.
 
  
  And speaking of the oxygen supply, you'll need it because some parts of the Ishimura are badly 
 damaged and no longer pressurized. There are even some large zero G areas where you usually need 
 to use the lack of gravity to solve some puzzles. In these situations, you'll also be aided by 
 your stasis and kinesis modules, which are a nice addition to gameplay. Both of these can be used 
 in combat situations too as they're quite useful against certain types of enemies... or when you're 
 out of ammo.
  
  So I mentioned enemies. Well, they're an ugly bunch and they almost never choose a conventional 
 entrance. They'll be coming from walls, vents, ceilings or who knows where, and while you get used 
 to that after a while, they're never as predictable as enemies in Doom 3 for example. These necromorphs 
 are also pretty adaptable: some of them will break down into smaller enemies, some will grow back 
 limbs, others will even try to revive fallen necromorphs. The best way to deal with them is by 
 dismemberment, otherwise you'll be out of ammo constantly. One particular enemy had the ability 
 to regenerate right back in a matter of seconds no matter how much you shoot at it, meaning you 
 could only slow it down but not stop it, which is pretty awesome if you ask me. It made for some 
 seriously tense situations.
  
  And speaking of tense, it's probably the word that describes Dead Space's atmosphere best. It's 
 not as scary as they say but it sure manages to maintain a constant feeling of tension. The tough 
 enemies (it's not exactly an easy game, especially towards the end) , excellent sound effects and 
 creepy environments do an excellent job of keeping you plugged in. The Ishimura's corridors look 
 coarse and cold with only a few places that break this habit. Bottom line, the game succeeds admirably 
 in making you feel alone and sometimes barely clinging to life. The way the story is paced doesn't 
 help either. You want to escape this death trap of a ship but every time you take a step in the 
 right direction something bad happens. It feels like an uphill battle, and while some might be 
 annoyed by this, I'd say it works to Dead Space's advantage.
  
  Finally, the controls and HUD need to be mentioned as they are a bit controversial. The third person 
 camera is placed pretty close to Isaac's right shoulder so he kind of blocks your view sometimes. 
 I feel that a first-person camera would have worked better. The key binds are all over the place 
 and you need some time to adjust to the many controls of the game. It's certainly not an optimum 
 game from this point of view but you get used to it eventually. The HUD on the other hand is quite 
 clever. Your ammo count is displayed directly on your weapons while inventory, text or video logs 
 and objectives are displayed as projections from Isaac's suit. As for health, it's displayed on 
 the suit's back along with stasis charges and oxygen amount (when in depressurized areas only) .
 
  
  Overall, Dead Space is one of those games that achieve pretty much everything they set out to do, 
 and while it doesn't invent anything new, it's certainly competent and fun. If you're looking for 
 a good survival game then this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaren_Kuldes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Dead Space redefines the survival horror genre with a storyline that is full of suspense, intrigue 
 and surprises. Gameplay is well done, though I don't particularly care for the third-person view, 
 I would have rather had first person, but it works well for this game. Graphics are spectacular 
 overall, very nicely done and fairly realistic as well. Dead Space wasn't exactly what I would 
 call scary, but it is a gory and hellish bloodfest of carnage and death that will make any horror 
 fan ecstatic with glee.
  
  I think Dead Space would have been a bit more scary had it been done from the first person perspective 
 because with the third person view you really can see what's coming so there aren't many real surprises 
 to scare you. I did find myself lost in gameplay though, so it's very engrossing, I would start 
 playing and the next thing I knew a couple hours had gone by without me even noticing it, but only 
 a couple hours at a time is all I could stand as it's a bit repetitive with the tasks that you're 
 ordered to do. 
  
  If you're a fan of b-movie horror, sci-fi and gaming then I can highly recommend you grabbing Dead 
 Space for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saurosy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  One of the best games this year !
  Graphics - 9.5
  Audio - 10
  Gameplay - 9
  Horror - 10
  
  Difficulty - easy.
  
  
  Graphics - Great depth of field, when shopping, 
 great monster visual design. Great environment and good facial expressions ! 
  
  Audio - Monster sounds, Issac breathing sounds, heart beat ... wow ! First game in which I notice 
 quality of sounds ! I advise to You all to play with earphones ! Adventure which You will never 
 forget !
  
  Gameplay - A bit irritating gameplay in Aim Mode [ left mouse button ] . But melee hitting with 
 weapon, crushing with leg and simply shooting - they made gameplay quite good. But I don`t like 
 that You can`t turn 180 degrees fast.
  
  Horror - One of best horror games I have ever played ! I counted - I got scared only 5 times in 
 whole game, but I all most broke my chair with hitting my back against it !
  
  If You like 3rd person horror shooting, You MUST HAVE THIS GAME ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIKINGS3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  There are lots of stuff to be said about this game (most good) but i'm just gonna go trough the 
 most important in this review.
  I love it when games experiment and try to bring in new stuff, specially when it comes out well.: P
 
  K, lets start with some of the usuall: very good graphics without beeing too demanding on your system, immersive 
 sound, and a good story.
  Some of the unique features, well i'd like to talk about 2 of them. First the camera, to be honest 
 it really pissed me off at first, but it grew on me and I suddenly realized how cool it was, it didnt 
 even feel like playing a video game, it felt more like going trough a movie only with you as the 
 main character.: P Olso forget about some stupid HUD that shows your health or a minimap or other 
 silly things like that, they dont exist. There is a indicator for health on the costume of your character 
 and another little dial next to it (thats for another future i wont be covering here) and thats 
 it, if u want more, like map or stuff u just need to press a button. (You do however get a crosair 
 and ammo count when you zoom in with a weapon, thats how you'll be doing most of your killing.) This 
 game is great for taking quality screen shots or making some cool videos.
  The second feature is the actuall action, the way you kill things in this game. (This feature is 
 olso discussed in the review gamespot gave.) If you think you're usuall head shots will work, or 
 pumping a enemy full of bullets for about 30 secs is gonna cut it, then you are in for a big surprise.:) 
 This game actually has u dismembering oponents if u want them dead, take of a leg, a arm and maybe 
 it dies, take of the other arm too if you're not sure. The AI is very nice, and will use several tactics 
 against you, including playing dead.: P
  There's lots more to be said, but i'm gonna stop here, as I really feel this game should be played 
 without any spoilers. One last thing I really liked, the copy I got my hands on at least, no bugs! The 
 game played great from start to finish, I didn't patch it or anything.
  Oh well, have fun playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  If Dead Space was 2 hours long and cost $5, then it would've been a great game. Instead, what EA 
 Redwood tried to do was stretch the game's base ideas to the point that it became a 12-15 hour 
 hike. EA's definitely succeeded in that respect, but the end result is a game that constantly recycles 
 its ideas and concepts to the point that repetitive becomes a massive understatement. There's also 
 a lack of genuine, original ideas, which doesn't give Dead Space a strong sense of identity. That's 
 not to say that the developers didn't infuse the game with ideas of their own, but as a whole, 
 Dead Space is remarkably average and far outstays its welcome.
  
  The cliches and unoriginality begins with the game's set-up. You suit up as engineer Issac Clarke, 
 who is sent out with tech specialist Kendra Daniels and security officer Zach Hammond to check 
 out the USG Ishimura, a space vessel that has mysteriously gone silent. Docking lights don't show 
 up and communication is a garbled, incomprehensible mess at best. In minutes, massive technical 
 fubars forces your ship to crash into the docking bay of the Ishimura. Your ship's still able enough 
 to get you off the Ishimura after this brief, typical search and repair mission. Obviously, things 
 don't go as planned and everything goes straight to hell in mere minutes. Brilliant and unpredictable, 
 if Dead Space was the first of its kind.
  
  A third of your small crew is killed instantly by necromorphs, the once-living now turned into 
 relentless, merciless monstrosities. Separated from Daniels and Hammond, they'll constantly give 
 you objectives to complete, while the plot slowly develops into an average narrative and then reaches 
 its epic conclusion. It's a gameplay structure that works for 3 hours. Yes, your objectives make 
 sense, but this process repeats and restarts endlessly. There's little in the sense of progress, 
 because for every one step forward, you take another back because of some out-of-the-blue mishap 
 that's keeping you from getting off this ship. Eventually, Kendra's nagging gets annoying (she 
 even screams at you to kill something 50x bigger than you at one point) and Hammond's objectives 
 are almost as irritating. What all this does is sap the game's atmosphere and tension.
  
  That's an unbelievably huge problem for a game like Dead Space. Once you begin to guess correctly 
 as to what will happen next, the game's structure becomes obvious and robs it of any sort of tension 
 and atmosphere. You know there's going to be a necromorph popping out of those faraway vents, because 
 a health pack is conveniently place in front of it. You know one of the critters are going to jump 
 out of that pile of corpses and "startle" you. You know the most sterile rooms in the game are 
 going to get locked down in a quarantine, which will force you to fight waves of necromorphs. This 
 laziness from the developers saps the game of not only atmosphere and tension, but also genuine 
 fear. Worst of all, these scripted instances get really, really annoying after they occur for the 
 umpteenth time.
  
  The game's story isn't going to keep you drawn, either. Audio and text logs scrape at the surface, 
 but don't develop into anything substantial. Twists are predictable and while the conclusion is 
 exciting, there's not a lot that's really answered. You do get backstory logs after finishing the 
 game once, but they don't add to game's plot substantially. Even more lacking is any emotional 
 connection between you and Issac. Sure, he has a girlfriend, and you're told that Issac likes her 
 very much, but so what? The developers tell us how to feel, but that's nothing if they don't have 
 the emotional content to back it up and Dead Space doesn't have it. It's also hard to feel for 
 a man who's mute. Admittedly, the same complaint can be levied against the enigmatic Gordon Freeman 
 from the Half-Life series, but Valve's deft execution means you care for Freeman's friends and 
 they care for you, which creates an emotional link between you and Freeman. But enough digression.
 
  
  So, peeling back Dead Space's shallow and flawed exterior reveals a functional and fairly enjoyable 
 shooter. You start with the plasma cutter, which as the name implies, cuts stuff. That's great, 
 because the game's combat emphasizes cutting off the limbs of necromorphs in your way. In fact, 
 the game wants you to utilize this so much so that it reminds you three times in the course of 
 five minutes. It's mildly insulting, but it is an important facet of the combat if you play the 
 game on a difficultly above Normal. Besides the fact that cutting off limbs does extra damage, 
 cutting off legs will force necromorphs to crawl, which gives you some breathing room to reload, 
 run away, or use the game's inventory system, which doesn't pause the game. This basic step in 
 the game's combat doesn't change much, with the exception of a few enemy types. The larger issue 
 is that you're going to do a lot of it and there's little variation in it, because the AI mostly 
 rushes you with reckless abandon. Some fall into rudimentary patterns that are easily discovered 
 and the bosses, while huge and daunting are uncreative; shoot obvious weak spots and that settles 
 it. The game's concept of challenge is just as uncreative. Necromorphs encountered before are donned 
 with symbiote-skin, which buffs up their resilience and strength. Later on, the game sends waves 
 of these guys at you to inflate the difficulty. It's just plain lazy. Just like nearly everything 
 in Dead Space, the combat is repetitive.
  
  If you're ever in trouble, you can use a stasis charge that'll slow necromorphs to a crawl. It 
 makes combat more methodical and almost too easy at times. Still, you can only shoot so many charges 
 at any given time, and fiddling with the inventory trying to use a stasis pack gets the blood pumping. 
 It's a balanced element of the game. Dead Space also has the obligatory gravity gun, just renamed 
 to kinesis. You'll be able chuck stuff with it, like all the convenient gas canisters littered 
 throughout the ship, but you'll mostly use it to solve rudimentary puzzles. Sometimes, you'll use 
 both stasis and kinesis in tandem to solve these riddles, which is kind of neat, until you do it 
 over and over again. At best, the puzzles are a nice change of pace from all the shooting, at worst, 
 it's boring. It's a pretty even split between the two and since there aren't too much of them, 
 puzzles don't hurt or improve Dead Space. They're just sort of there.
  
  When you're not in combat or solving those intense brain teasers, you're usually traversing through 
 zero-g areas or decompressed space, the bad one that doesn't have oxygen. Zero-g is fun and basically 
 plays like a more freeform version of Prey's gravity walkways, allowing you jump and float across 
 long distances, get upside down and confused as you attempt to get your bearings with every jump. 
 The physics in action here are particularly impressive. Corpses and objects drift about and liquids 
 float about listlessly, giving a real sense of weightlessness. It's a very gimmicky element, because 
 these sections of the game aren't all that different, just a bit more confusing because of all 
 the perspective shifts, but they're unique and more importantly, fun. The space trek elements are 
 arguably even cooler, because they're presented extremely well; colors are desaturated and sound 
 is muffled and muted, giving off the impression that you're really in space. A draining oxygen 
 meter does attempt to instill a sense of urgency, but an oxygen recharge station or oxygen tanks 
 seem to be present whenever you're hoofing it out it there in space. Both the zero-g and space 
 sections don't really evolve or change throughout the game, but they're welcomed and the few twists 
 they put into the combat is refreshing.
  
  If you're not doing either, then you're spending time on buying equipment at one of the stores 
 or upgrading various aspects of Issac through upgrade benches. Credits are the game's currency, 
 and you'll find it off of corpses and whatnot or you can sell extra stuff in your inventory for 
 some cash. The store, while convenient, makes resource management non-existent, because there's 
 always enough cash to buy ammo or health on even the Hard difficulty. The store brings only good 
 intentions, but hampers the game. One thing it does do well, however, is the implementation of 
 schematics. Finding new schematics for weapons, suits and items is a great way of introducing new 
 items to the store. Simply find a schematic and the store will immediately download the new items 
 and will be included in the game's store. It's simple, but very effective.
  
  The upgrade system is executed well. Throughout the game, you'll find power nodes and you'll use 
 them on upgrade benches to upgrade your suit, stasis, kinesis, and all the weapons you have on 
 you. Each upgradeable part has their own tech tree and if you spread your power nodes too thin, 
 you'll end up with a lot of junk, especially on harder difficulties. Some upgrades are completely 
 useless, like expansion of the oxygen tank on your suit and the even more pointless kinesis upgrades, 
 but all weapon upgrades are important and it just depends on your preference. Specializing in a 
 weapon also brings consequences, because ammo drops are random and you might not get the ammo you 
 need for your gun, forcing you to run back to the store and buy some. You'll often be given the 
 opportunity to use power nodes on locked doors, which always house tons of goodies, so there's 
 some decision-making to be had. Sure, you can buy more nodes at shops, but you'll be begging for 
 cash if you do this on a regular basis.
  
  If you couldn't tell already, the gameplay and the atmosphere (which is arguably more important 
 for a game like Dead Space) are riddled with problems, big and small. On the bright side, its presentation 
 is outstanding. Dead Space looks great and while its texture quality isn't the sharpest and repetition 
 is once again present, it's nice to look at it. Its art direction is questionable  Why is everything 
 so cold and metallic? Who the hell wouldn't lose their minds living here? Admittedly, this is more 
 of a criticism directed to all sci-fi horrors that aim for this drab, depressing direction, but 
 Dead Space continues this sad tradition. The good news is that the gore-factor is huge in Dead 
 Space and a lot of work has gone into the death animations in particular. They completely trump 
 the standards that Resident Evil 4 set by a huge margin. And in general, the animations are excellent. 
 The motion-captured sequences look fantastic, character models emote incredibly well, Issac's animations 
 are spot-on and necromorphs move with menace. Also, big kudos to HUD-less interface; health is 
 displayed on the suit's spine, and the inventory opens up in real-time and is 3-D. Same goes to 
 video and audio feeds, really keeping you in the game. The immersion factor is there, only if everything 
 else in Dead Space locked into place.
  
  The audio is even better. Excellent voice-acting makes the game's so-so script sound way better 
 than it should and sound effects are expertly crafted. Weapons sound punchy, necromorphs sound 
 like savages with insane bloodlust, and scattered ambient sounds, like the distant scream, or the 
 spinning pantry makes it feel like the Ishimura still houses a few unlucky survivors, desperately 
 clinging onto their lives. The music consists mostly of high strings and it's pretty good, but 
 its implementation is questionable. Silence is sometimes the most effective tool to establish an 
 unsettling mood, but Dead Space has none of that and allows Jason Graves' score to permeate almost 
 every moment of the game. Problem aside, Dead Space has superb sound.
  
  Dead Space's length is standard for this day and age, but if you want to play it again for whatever 
 reason, you can start a new game with some extra credits, nodes and a new suit schematic. You won't 
 be able to start a new game on a different difficulty, because that'd be lame. Dead Space initially 
 wows with its presentation and stifling atmosphere, but a couple hours in, it turns into something 
 more rote and by the end, it's hard to leave satisfied. Repetition is what undoes this shooter 
 and if EA hasn't realized this by the time they start up work on the sequel, which they already 
 have, then there's little hope for this already ailing franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgicore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  First of all, you better be prepared for the great sound effects, secondly, for the ugly disgusting 
 well design monsters / mutants.
  
  All these years, the games as I've been playing, some were good, others were..... let's just say, 
 install, play, 3 minutes later, uninstall. Don't get me wrong, the sounds and graphics were also 
 very high and beautifully mastered, however, it missed the most important point, a great Story!
 
  
  Unfortunately as I've been looking and scouting around, many games companies focus their effort 
 mainly in the awesome graphics and sound effects, but when it comes to a story, it simply falls 
 apart. Shame.
  
  Dead Space, no doubt breaks all the barriers. It gives the gamer a great experience of sound effects, 
 super graphics and dialogue, but above all, presents you with a Story that makes you want to follow. 
 For me, that's what makes a game close to perfection. Not just run and shoot and only trying to 
 accomplish some silly objectives. In Dead Space your objectives have a purpose in order to pass 
 to the next section, you must accomplish those tasks first. Meanwhile, watch out... they are everywhere....... 
 keep your ears open and keep looking around you, yes... they are everywhere...
  
  Last but not least, the only reason I haven't give 10 max score to it, unfortunately Dead Space 
 AI does have some issues. For example, once you have played the first time, if you die and then 
 replay the same section, you already know where the monster (s) are. You can even get prepared and 
 star shooting on that spot, knowing when and where they will come out.
  
  Also, Dead Space seems to suffer a variety of monsters / mutants. Just wished there were much more 
 variety of them. The control for me wasn't much of an issue, since, it was only a matter of getting 
 use to it and I don't judge a game by the way a gamer should play. Unless the developed have purposely 
 screw it up.
  
  There's a bug in the Chapter 10, in which, through some research and friendly gamers replies / 
 help, you have to do your objectives in a reverse order. There are 2 doors that requires the Crew 
 Key Access Card, but the level only gives you 1 card and once you use it, it's gone from your inventory. 
 To solve this problem you must do the objectives in a reverse order. Basically you start by collecting 
 the last Nav Card first.
  The way I played was, first open one of the doors, DO NOT get in it. Then go back to the second 
 door and use the card again. There's your problem solved.
  
  There's my 9.5 score for Dead Space and the issues I mentioned above, shouldn't reflect on the 
 game quality. Not perfect, but pretty close to it. 
  
  If you like a game with a great story line, then Dead Space should be on your desk. If you just 
 like to run and shoot, look somewhere else.
  
  Look forward and stay tuned for Dead Space 2, the sequel... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pe6o_91
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I've never understood the appeal of scary games -- or movies, for that matter. Considering Dead 
 Space is marketed as a horror game -- "a bloodcurdling interactive horror experience," according 
 to the official site -- I found myself strangely comfortable with it at first. Then I realized 
 something: It isn't really a horror game. Or at least, not a very scary one.
  
  It's clear that Dead Space wants to be scary. It has the right trappings, from the lost-on-a-spaceship 
 concept to the limited health and ammo pickups, the audio and video logs you find (which feature 
 allies screaming at you) , and the blood-splattered environments and occasional disgusting enemies. 
 But it seems like -- in a few too many cases -- the designers chose to hold you by the hand and 
 make something look cool instead of making it look scary. When you're upgrading your suit (which 
 itself makes you look more like a game's boss than an everyman) , using Stasis to freeze enemies, 
 picking up explosive canisters with the equivalent of a gravity gun, and purchasing weapons that 
 dissect enemies in different ways, you don't exactly feel vulnerable. Mix in more than enough checkpoints 
 and the ability to draw a line in front of you telling you where to go (with the touch of a button) 
 and it's easy to settle in and let the training wheels take care of you.
  
  Assuming you weren't misled into expecting something along the lines of Silent Hill, however, I 
 don't think you'll be disappointed. Dead Space tries to have things both ways by being scary and 
 offering plenty of gunplay, but it's well crafted throughout. I remember debates about whether 
 Resident Evil 4 was as scary as previous Resident Evil games, and the consensus was that no, it 
 wasn't -- but it was better designed, so who cares?
  
  A better description of Dead Space is "a limited-ammo shooter." You spend a lot of time moving 
 through corridors and taking out a few enemies at a time, but the game gets difficult (and really 
 good) when it locks you in a room and forces you to kill everything before moving on. When that 
 happens, you have to use strategies such as freezing a few enemies at a time... and then punching 
 their frozen bodies just to save ammo.
  
  The much-hyped dismemberment system plays into these strategies as well, since you can shoot off 
 enemy legs to slow them to a (literal) crawl or slice off an explosive flesh bag attached to an 
 enemy's arm and then use the gravity gun to fire the bag at a whole batch of foes. It works incredibly 
 well when mixed with the limited-ammo concept, as you can almost always find a way to kill an enemy 
 more effectively than just firing quickly -- which helps keep the combat interesting during the 
 routine corridor sections of the game.
  
  Despite the combat, I still found a few too many similar-looking corridors -- the game is long 
 enough (I clocked in at about 12 hours) , but it's pretty much the same thing all the way through, 
 with a few minor minigames, puzzles, and zero-gravity segments (where you go outside the ship and 
 jump from floor to ceiling with gravity boots) sprinkled in. Find a key, unlock a door, move on 
 to the next locked door... then enter a room where you have to kill a bunch of enemies and fight 
 an occasional boss.
  
  Dead Space is at its best when it does things unique to the third-person shooter genre; the aforementioned 
 zero-gravity sequences (which feature fantastic audio effects that make you feel like you're in 
 outer space) , the storytelling method (events unfold via hovering video log monitors that you watch 
 as you walk around, rather than through traditional cut-scenes -- and it's much more impressive 
 than the events themselves) , and the dismemberment system all come to mind. Apart from the lack 
 of variety within them, the characters and environments are some of the best looking on the market, 
 with blood splatters and rusted metals all over the place.
  
  Dead Space ultimately feels like an incredibly polished and varied 6-hour game stretched out to 
 make it twice that long. While I felt like I was repeating the same objectives a few too many times, 
 the combat held up so well that I didn't even mind... too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epox1130
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been a much huger success if it wasn't for it's major flaw, the laggy mouse 
 movements. If your in any sort of high intensity fight you'll notice it hindering your ability 
 to dismember your opponents. Your every move seems to happen just too late to tolerate, though 
 it's too addictive to stop playing.
  
  The weapons in Dead space are fantastic, each has it's own strengths and the alternate firing modes 
 lend them selves to all sorts of situations, especially zero-grav. Another thing i quite enjoyed 
 was the feeling that exploring was somehow going to yield me an extra schematic or upgrade node, 
 and it sometimes did.
  
  All in all it was a good game that could have been a great game if it were not for the almost fatal 
 flaw of the laggy mouse.
  
  
  asdf adf asdf adf asdf asdf asdf asdf asf asdf fd adf adf asdf adfs dfas dfas sdf fds asdf dfas 
 dfas dfsa dfs dfsa asdf dfas dfas dfas dfa dfsa dfas dfs df asadf sdf df asdf df assdf dfasdf sdf 
 df as 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  The best aspect of this game is the atmosphere. This is what Doom 3 should have felt like. Imagine 
 the movie Event Horizon only there is actually monsters hiding around every corner ready to scare 
 the living **** out of you. Noises make you constantly wonder if something is going to jump on 
 top of you. Honestly, I found myself hesitant to enter hallways because I didn't want to be scared... and 
 I'm no pansy. The mini bosses they put in you way are highly appropriate and well scripted. You 
 will see.
  
  I agree that close combat is a bit clumsy. But it defintly makes you feel more like your in danger, 
 i cant imagine the amount of ammo i wasted freaking out when you have a razor armed freak screaming 
 and swing in my face and little baby/scorpion/dogs screaching and shooting stingers at me. It was 
 awesome. BETTER than Far cry 2, but no crysis. A surprising turn of events.
  
  Graphics: 8.5- 9.5
  Sound: 9.0- 9.5
  Gameplay: 8.5- 9.0
  Story: 9.0- 9.5
  Replay value: 
 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alclarity888
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Summary: Making a stop on the USS Ishimura to help with repairs leads to a nightmarish ride you 
 won't soon forget. The main character's girlfriend is also on the Ishimura which makes things personal 
 when you find out the whole place is brimming with creepy crawlies.
  
  Gameplay: Most of the tension is at the beginning of the game within the first couple hours of 
 gameplay. I think within the first two hours there are all of the shock scenes where things 'suddenly' 
 happen to scare you intentionally. Everywhere you go you will be peeking around corners and looking 
 both ways before you cross. The game is not difficult by any means if you have played any first 
 person shooters before. 
  
  Things that have ranged attacks barely move, and things that melee you have long pauses in between 
 attacks. Its only nerve-wracking because of the way that certain monsters approach you to close 
 the distance. Don't get me wrong, its freaky as hell but if you just calm down and focus.. you 
 can get through the whole game without getting scared once. If you get frustated at how fast things 
 move, you have an ability to slow down an objects speed (although this ability is limited in usage 
 by suit energy) that is used to complete several puzzles and defeat certain enemies.
  
  I have to admit though, decapitations and dismembering has never been so satisfying. I think this 
 game is one of the few where purposefully being brutal to the corpses of enemies and allies alike 
 is a pay off. 
  
  The graphics are amazing and suprisingly not that laggy for the quality you get (just turn off 
 vsync or you will have terrible input lag) . The hud is clean and innovative. One of my chief complaints 
 about the HUD though is because it comes out of your chest, it would be nice if you could zoom 
 out on your character sometimes or at least pause the game when manipulating your inventory or 
 accessing your map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I truly enjoyed this game. Hardly ever do I pick up a title and finish it within a few days anymore, 
 either because they are average or plain boring. I was really looking forward to finding that diamond 
 in the rough and really get that involvment out of a game. Well, Dead Space really delivers that.
 
  
  First of all, in my opinion, setting is the most important thing in a horror survival game. The 
 Ishimura is exactly that, a perfect sci-fi setting. Whoever came up with the idea of a "planet 
 cracker" needs to be called a genius from now on. Its just straight up amazing. Especially for 
 the missions and the breathtaking views that are involved.
  
  I won't spoil anything regarding story but I've got to say that its pretty amazing aswell, considering 
 it all unfolds slowly rather than just everything being out there. Also thanks to the characters 
 that really make you feel they are there in the ship somewhere trying to help you out and survive. 
 They all have a personality and are incredibly believable.
  
  I also thought the weapons and suit deserve plenty of props. I dont like the idea of having military 
 grade aresenals scattered around levels just for you to pick them up and know everything about 
 them and be a spec ops all with an M16 of a sudden. In dead space I noticed that all the weapons 
 in the game are actually industrial equipment, from your jigsaw to your energy cutter they are 
 as deadly as they need to be, who needs a granade launcher? Defenetly enjoyed that.
  
  I thought the game might have some issues with the mouse movements and/or controls but after disabling 
 vsync the mouse was just fine. Everything else just takes a little getting used to since its an 
 over the shoulder view rather than first person or directly from behind. In some cases i wished 
 the camera was a little further back like it is when there is no gravity (yes the zero g is incredibly 
 well done too) but after thinking about it the action wouldn't be so close and personal anymore 
 and it would be half the fun.
  
  The only flaw that i could really find in a game like this is the replay value. Once you are done 
 with it you unlock impossible mode but i honestly doubt anyone sane of mind would want to go through 
 all that again even with all weapons and armor maxed out.
  
  Thankfully the game offers 12 fairly long chapters, though they dont make the longest game in the 
 world, i was expecting somewhere between 7 or 8 max so props to that too even though the more the 
 better! 
  This one will probably last you a little over 10 hours. It took me about 11.
  
  Overall its a must have if you enjoy horror games. Defenetly worth your while and will keep you 
 asking for more when its over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ietam_Revan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  Well , straight to the point , if you care about your social life don't play the game , if you're 
 afraid of 7feet tall aliens with 4 arms trying to pull out your guts at night while you're trying 
 to fall asleep... don't play the game , if you don't have any kind of fears , you will have . 
 
  Dead Space is one of the most scariest horror game I have ever played , the things that make this 
 game so good are the very good and polished audio and graphics designs . The game will make you 
 fear the dark... . If you are a bloodthirsty kind of gamer , the game will not disappoint you , 
 there will be a lot of times where you can tear apart aliens . The way you command your char is 
 a little glitchy , but these glitches raise the amount of tension in the game , for example :
 
  2 aliens are running towards you very fast, you're out of ammo and you want to go back but you 
 can't cause the controls are too glitchy , tension grows , in the good case you run away , in the 
 bad case .. you get chopped in half . 
  Overall 
  GFX 9
  Sound 9.5
  Controls 8.5
  Price/Value 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamdigga
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  There are quite a lot of new games releasing these weeks. This really difficult to choose the best 
 games to own.
  
  Originally, I chose Farcry 2, FIFA09, Warhammer Online, RedAlert 3 and Crysis WH for my Sept/Oct. 
 I never think of this game before. However, the trailer of this game had just attracted me so much! 
 The shopkeeper described the game as extremely horrible and the monsters were "juicy"... She is 
 damn right!
  
  I highly recommend people who seek for excitement should play it at night, switching off lights 
 and use a great gaming headphone with it. The lighting and sound effect is better than I expected.
 
  
  This game is just great enough to fulfill my needs of killing, slaughtering and having heartattack.
 
  
  The graphic is great. Although I am using 3870x2, I believe this game can run smooth in most mid-class 
 PC.
  
  Some bugs were found in sound in some places, and could be fixed after the next load of game. Please 
 be remind that sound is vital to your survive, so I hope that EA can fix it with a patch.
  
  Story is concrete, but quite disappointed with its ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SibiS17
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Only flaw ----- close combat
  
  great weapons
  
  great zero gravity zones
  
  great enemies
  
  great sounds totally amazing game.
  
  When i heard abt this game i thought 
 it would be like the other spooky games . But actually whe i bought and played the game , i actually 
 died in the very first part of the game when neo.. (whatever) got to me . I got scared very much 
 . but after i played more and more it was great fun to slow down and shoot the limbs of the enemies. 
 JUST AMAZING NOTHING ELSE   But i found that as we increase difficulty level it was more tough 
 , with lesser ammo , stasis etc....
  
  I was really pretty afraid at certain areas of the game .
  But the zero G zones were absolutely 
 amazing .
  Killing the enemies were superb in those zones.
  Its a right game for hardcore gamers.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  
  Vista 64 bit Ultimate
  4GB DDR2 Ram
  Geforce 8800 GTS
  Intel E8400 1333 FSB
  
  
  Dead Space is a third person shooter and honestly is probably one of the best RPG'S I have 
 ever played. Everything about it is new, innovative and fresh.
  
  
  Story
  
  Without giving away spoilers this is a horror game set in space. The gist is you are going to assist 
 a distressed space ship and upon boarding it find most of the crew dead... and terror awaits!
  
  Generally they story is along similar lines to the Aliens movies. The game genre is similar 
 to the likes of Fear / Doom 3.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  GFX are literally out of this world. Not much to say here other than it is a beautiful game that 
 runs flawlessly on max settings.
  
  DS also has a very good physics engine which makes objects realistically move and collide.
  
 
  I love the 3d holographs to access inventory and maps etc.
  
  The game is full of graphic and gory violence which will have you jumping out of your seat.
  
 
  
  Sound
  
  Sound is excellent and in 5.1 surround really brings out the atmosphere of being on a deserted 
 space ship inhabited by aliens.
  
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  Yes this is a linear channelled shooter but it is the scariest game I have ever played. There are 
 so many "WTF" moments. If you like horror movies you will love this. In fact there's been a couple 
 of times I've had to turn it off. It certainly isn't for children.
  
  The game is clearly a console port, but it's been translated excellently. You cannot save the game 
 anywhere you want, but saves are made at GTA style save points, which thankfully are pretty close 
 together.
  
  Apart from being a shooter some of the melee fights are wonderful.
  
  The only bad thing I have to say about the game is console style camera which can be awkward to 
 get used to for a PC gamer and that there are far too many controls and key presses, to master 
 
  
  
  This game has so many new and innovative design features about it, it makes it a must buy. I've 
 written many game reviews and this is probably the first one that I've rated a 10
  
  
  Graphics 10
  Sound 10
  Gameplay 9.5
  Stability 10
  Value for money 10
  
  Overall 10
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edd080
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  The game is very intriguing, it makes you want to continue chapter after chapter, however a few 
 issues of compatibility need to be fixed, the lag certain users mention which affects the mouse 
 movement especially when turning around corners, is due to vsync being enabled, turn this off & 
 the lag disappears.
  
  I also noticed that the game doesn't play on my laptop even though it meets and exceeds the minimum 
 system requirements stated in the game & also from the system requirements lab site. The game claims 
 that my graphics card (Nvidia 8600m 512MB Ram) does not meet the minimum requirements to play.
 
  
  I hope EA addresses comes out with a patch, these problems aren't new to them I am sure many people 
 are complaining of having these same issues. 
  
  All in all however the game has a very good storyline especially if someone has seen the animated 
 film 'Dead Space: Downfall' which was released before the game came out for PC, it gives a perspective 
 on what had really happened to the ship (Ishimura) , & also has an effect on how the story will 
 continue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h7nichan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  There are very few games out there that can actually pull of scary moments, this is one such game 
 acomplishes it. Little details like ambushes while trying to get an open container, or when the 
 lights flciker and you know something is gonna happen are awesome touches to the game. The sound 
 design is one of the best ever done since "the suffering." It encompasses the player with surround 
 sound and is done fairly well. There are enoguh various enemies that keeps the game interesting, 
 espcially when each one has their own flaws. Experiencing zero-g in dead space is phenomenal, and 
 you can tell that EA took the time to analyze everything so everything can "float" in space. All 
 in all spectacular game that should be played whos looking for a different take on the horror franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appleipod23
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  I'm going to get the bad stuff out of the way first. Dead Space doesn't have too much enemy variety 
 and the story didn't compel me as much as it did others, but that's just me. The player takes control 
 of Isaac Clarke, an engineer who must fight off an infestation of the virus "Corruption". The virus 
 has corrupted the ship on which Isaac works, leaving only four people on the ship alive: Isaac, 
 his girlfriend, and two other crew members. 
  
  The view of the game is over the shoulder, lie in Resident Evil 4 and Gears of War, two games I 
 enjoyed ery much. The feel of the game is like Silent Hill 2 mixed with Crysis. The controls are 
 smooth, the graphics are nice, and the game scares you thoroughly, especially the final cut scene. 
 I won't spoil it for you, but it is sure to creep you out. 
  
  Dead Space has to be one of the greatest games out this year, and I'm looking forward to a possible 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargjaeger
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This game really caught me off guard. I expected it to be good, but not that good. The game had 
 me hooked the moment THE TUTORIAL spent a substantial amount of time reminding me of the benefits 
 of dismembering my enemies. And as it turned out, it did so with good reason. 
  
  The game has a lot to offer. The graphics are great. And the game will still look great even on 
 a mediocre PC, while maintaining a high frame rate. The level design is superb as well, although 
 there is some back traveling ( which makes sense since you're on a ship ) . And being a space ship, 
 the art design is a little limited by nature. having said that, there hasn't been a better graphical 
 realization of a space setting in a 1st/3rd-person game. 
  
  The sound design is OFF THE HOOK. There's the obligatory spooky ( rather terrifying ) score. And 
 not only will a monster jump at you, screeching and screaming, but to make matters worse, it'll 
 be accompanied by an overkill of violins and bass drums. 
  You'll be constantly looking over your shoulder, since this ship is NEVER quiet. The sound design 
 really does a great job by making you believe you are on a space ship and it easily surpasses some 
 major movie productions in that aspect. This game is pure atmosphere. 
  
  Now the gameplay got some mixed reactions, from what I saw in some user reviews. but first here's 
 what I think:
  
  The combat never gets old. there's a variety of enemies with different weakspots, the weapons are 
 fun to use and the gore is extreme. On top of that you have a small RPG-element, being able to 
 upgrade your suit, the gimmicks and the weapons. 
  the bold step to make this game completely HUD-less really pays off in my opinion. the screen is 
 no longer cluttered with magical displays which take you out of the world the game tries so hard 
 to pull you into. 
  
  The reason I think it was a bold a decision is linked to many complaints people had with the camera. 
 The character takes up most of the left side of the screen. This a necessary since, as mentioned 
 before, vital information is displayed on the suit. I assume that to be the reason why there is 
 no option to change the camera. I agree that it took me a few minutes to get used to the view ( 
 not even the length of the tutorial ) , but I never thought about it again after getting used to 
 it. 
  
  Another repeatedly mentioned criticism are the controls for the PC, and actually, I have to agree 
 to a certain degree. this game was clearly made with the consoles in mind. 
  Now that's only fair, since the the horror adventure genre in its modern form ( resident evil and 
 silent hill, to mention the most prominent ones ) originated on consoles. And a typical feature 
 of console games are slow enemies, since the controller doesn't give the player the pin point accuracy 
 of the mouse + keyboard kombo of destruction ( oh I would love to kick some console-pals a_s_s 
 on CoD 4 , hehe ) . 
  
  Same in dead space. Yes, enemies are EXTREMELY menacing, but usually pretty slow. even the quick 
 ones usually give the player a small window of opportunity. If you had typical "1st-person shooter"-like 
 controls in terms of turning speed and responsiveness, you could run through this game using a 
 medkit as a weapon ( actually not a gameplay feature, unless you use telekinesis ) ... which is probably 
 why it DOESN't have them. the mouse will be rather slow, even on the highest setting. Plus there 
 were some buttons I couldn't map, which won't bother 99% percent of the players ( I usually move 
 forward + backward on mousebuttons ) . Both these things combined, it took me some getting used 
 to aswell, but nothing more than a few minutes and its all second nature. 
  
  I will hook up my Playstation2 Pad the second run through, just to compare the controls. But playing 
 with the mouse and keyboard worked perfectly for me. 
  
  Last words go to the story: its good. if you're into sci-fi/horror movies and games, you pretty 
 much now the story, but the presentation is top notch.
  
  It's clear, I love the game. Can it be recommended to anyone, definitely not. Obviously children 
 shouldn't play the game ( although I played doom1 when I was 9 years old ) . But not only children 
 will be scared by that game. There are a lot of jump scares and the atmosphere is constantly morbid 
 and depressing. Some people might actually shy away from the constant pressure the player is enduring. 
 And some may simply not share the fun in slaying wicked space monsters in such an extremely graphical 
 manner. 
  
  To everyone else: game of the year candidate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r2d2c3p0
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  I've played about 10 hours so far and in general I'm enjoying the game but I will say I was expecting 
 a scary game. Thought it would be a bit of a horror game from the cover and reviews.
  Both the F. E. A. R. and the Doom series gave me more than a few frightning moments. This game has 
 little scare factor. Zombies will jump out at you and give a brief startle but spooky is never 
 established. Lots of gore, lots of blood gushing out of zombies - can look silly at times. 
  
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  1) Nice graphics ( Nothing special ) , runs smoothly, texture and lighting 
 is well done. 
  
  2) Fabulous navigation system, I hate being lost in a game. I hate being in a maze.
  
  3) Audio 
 is great. Weapon sounds are nice.
  
  4) Weapons feel powerful.
  
  5) Storyline is good. You know why and where your going.
  
  6) No HUD works well - nice idea.
 
  
  7) Some simple puzzles here and there thrown into the mix.
  
  8) Shooting the limbs off is proving to be pretty entertaining. Suprises me a bit.
  
  
  THE 
 BAD:
  
  1) Awkward control system. I'm left handed and always reprogram the arrow keys as the WASD. Arrow 
 keys are locked and are used for the Inventory etc. Just kills the game for me. Press both mouse 
 buttons just to fire your weapon. ---- duh????
  
  2) Powers require multiple keys when a single key could do. Can feel like a BUTTON MASHING EXERSIZE 
 as doors don't open as you approach them. To pick up an object you must approch it and press E. 
 Why not just walk up to it? Press M to get the Map - Press ESC to exit the map ??? Why not just 
 press M again to exit?
  
  3) Checkpoint Save System. - Does save just before your about to die tho, so not as bad as it could 
 be. Still why not have proper saves anytime?
  
  4) Has the feel of a console game. ( Console port )
  
  5) No atmosphere really, have'nt got 
 into the character.
  
  6) You go back and forth over the same parts of the ship repeatedly. Possible this map is pretty 
 small.
  
  7) Not really a Horror game, just lots of gore. 
  
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  Good game with a BAD control system.. 
  
   
 
  UPDATE: Finished the game -- Really enjoyed it and recommend it -- Still I'll keep my score at 
 7 due to a awkward control system ( I'm left-handed and the arrow keys do not re-map) and the lack 
 of a quick save. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icaro_82
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space have been a game that almos past under my radar. 
  Actually I bought it just because a few extra bucks have left after buy Fallout 3. 
  Wichever 
 the case is Dead Space have surprise me with a really good Extra DVD that was a really nice introduction 
 to the game. 
  Before see the animated dvd I jump on and install the game. 
  A very interesting story and a game that keep my at the edge of my chair, was a really nice surprise. 
 
  The sound in this game is awesome, and very inmersive, and keep you in the "mood". Always in suspense. 
 
  The audio files, and video files that you encounter along the game, give a backgroun about what 
 as have been happening in the game, given it a "backbone solid story". 
  
  Ok, similarities with Resident Evil 4, and Bioshock, are inevitable, but a "Survival horror" ambiented 
 in the space is a nice spin off to the genere. 
  On the downside, as has been mentioned several times, is annoying. 
  Playing the game with a 
 keyboard-mouse combination is also very complicated ,for not to say almost impossible, so I been 
 played with a gamepad so far (Put that torch down "fanboy") . 
  Also the enemies are kind of "repetitive" you will see a lot of "clones" walking aroud, but that's 
 is something that, to me at least, doesn't bother me too much. 
  In a bottom line: Dead space, is very efective, you will jump, and have goosebumps, almost everytime, 
 a real good argument, and a very nice gameplay, make this game a really nice addition to your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silveressa
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  (Note this review is intended to be as "spoiler free" as possible, since a good horror rpg relies 
 on suspense and plot development to provide the best game play experience)
  
  When I first got this PC game as a Halloween gift I was intrigued, and a little skeptical. Sure 
 it looked to have great graphics, dark atmosphere, and a horror theme, but could it deliver on 
 the promise of a survival horror game that was actually horrifying and not horrible? 
  After 7+ hours of game play I can say with certainty, it delivers better than any "horror game" 
 this gamer girl's enjoyed in the past 5 years.
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphically the game is beautifully sickening, providing plenty of gore and horrific atmosphere, 
 from the light refractions off of the enemies slimy bodies and the dull reddish brown of congealed 
 pools of blood and putrescence, to the metallic shine of your weapons and crevices of your EVA 
 suit.. 
  
  All of it blends well without feeling over done or unrealistic. Lighting is dim and gloomy as to 
 be expected, but not so dark you can't easily see the horrors surrounding you. (and there's a easy 
 to use brightness adjuster for those with darker or brighter than average monitors)
  
  On the highest settings at 1024x768 it ran smooth at 65fps on my NVIDIA 8600 GT PCI-EX, but those 
 with lower end cards may need to tone down the settings for good performance.
  
  
  Sound:
  
  !/2 of the horror in such games comes from not only the ambience, but the soundtrack 
 itself, both of which Dead Space delivers on perfectly. Enemies squish, hiss, and skitter about 
 with eerie echoes, and the distant hum of malfunctioning machinery only adds to the oppressive 
 and tense atmosphere as you make your way through the levels. The sound track is often dark, subtle 
 and menacing, often only playing dimly at key moments to add to the suspense without becoming over 
 bearing.
  
  The voice acting for this game is top notch, with the emotions of the actors very well conveyed, 
 and the voices fitting wit the appearance of the characters naturally. As the storyline unfolds 
 the acting feels more like that of a 5 star movie than a video game, only adding to the immersion 
 factor.
  
  
  Interface:
  
  DS takes a extremely minimalist approach to the interface, deeply adding to the atmosphere by making 
 all of the key character info as naturally appearing as possible. (health, ammo etc..) 
  
  Your health bar is displayed by a glowing energy line down the back of your characters suit, giving 
 you an easy way to gauge your relative remaining health status at a glance. Ammo count for your 
 weapons is only displayed when you raise the weapon to fire, appearing as a integrated part of 
 the weapon.
  
  Even the menu screens and video uplinks are displayed as if your character is seeing them on a 
 holographic interface, making it all fade into the atmosphere naturally during game play.
  
  The only downside to the interface is saving can only be done at a "save station" which are 
 frequently scattered throughout the game. Although a quick save feature would have been nice for 
 us pc games, when you die there is a convenient "rewind" feature, that automatically restarts you 
 about 20 seconds back from where you just died, giving you an instant "re try" without having to 
 progress all the way back from your last save.
  
  
  Play Control
  
  Perhaps the most important issue in making such a game either enjoyable or a frustration, especially 
 on a port from the consoles. DS feels a little awkward at first, but after a short time game play 
 comes naturally. The camera position is third person, set behind the right shoulder of the character 
 making it feel a little awkward for the first 10 minutes or so while you get used to it. (There's 
 also the option to remap the controls as you desire if need be)
  
  Unlike most survival horror games, juggling key items in your inventory isn't an issue, as there 
 is a separate area they are stored automatically, leaving your main inventory free for ammo, med 
 kits and other survival necessities.
  
  Movement and shooting feels natural compared to most any other fps game, and anyone who's familiar 
 with the "press and one hold button to aim then another to fire will feel right at home. While 
 there's no jump or crouch buttons, your character does have the ability to do impressive leaps 
 in zero gravity and some basic melee attacks for when enemies are close at hand.
  
  There's also the addition of two handy items you'll acquire during the first couple chapters of 
 game play. (don't worry you can't accidentally overlook them ) The first is a "Stasis Control Device" 
 which slows down time on whatever you cast it at, making enemies move in slow motion, or environmental 
 objects to respond more slowly (such as automated doors)
  
  The second is a "Kinetic control device" similar to Half Life 2's gravity gun, and provides much 
 the same function in this game, allowing you to remotely manipulate heavy objects, and even hurl 
 them at enemies.
  
  On top of all of this are "upgrade benches" allowing you to improve your weapons and armor by spending 
 modules you find throughout your adventures.
  
  Also off Interest is the in game shops, the allow you to buy extra equipment, ammo, health kits 
 etc.. with the money you find scattered through the game, and sell off extra ammo and supplies 
 you don't want.
  
  In addition the store also comes with a free storage safe, you can store extra ammo, health kits, 
 etc.. in to take with you at a later time. (you can access the same storage box it from any store 
 in the game)
  
  
  Storyline:
  
  I won't say much about it, except to assure you it's suitably horrific and suspenseful, with a 
 definite dark, almost hopeless atmosphere that leaves you scared but too enthralled to see what's 
 going to happen next to stop playing.
  
  Compared to other survival horror games it's easily among the most enjoyable and reminds more as 
 the plot of a hit movie in the way it unfolds then that of a mere game.
  
  
  I'll conclude with a quick recap of the good, bad, and ugly.
  
  The Good:
  
  -Minimalist 
 natural feeling interface
  
  -Excellent atmosphere and story
  
  -Lengthy Play time through 12 chapters (roughly 4+ hours per chapter on harder difficulties)
 
  
  -Good play control
  
  -Awesome voice acting and very good graphics 
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  -No save anywhere feature
  
  -Somewhat Linear storyline
  
  -Average replay 
 ability
  
  
  The Ugly:
  
  -The Monsters (incredibly well detailed and absolutely revolting, perhaps the best eye candy in 
 the game) 
  
  
  Over all if you enjoy Survival Horrors like the Resident Evil series, and horror sci-fi movies 
 like Event Horizon, this game is sure to give you many hours of enjoyment and some good scares.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_Martyr_x
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Graphics : 9
  
  The visuals in Dead Space are stunning. The lighting effects really stand out in the dark settings, 
 giving the ship creepy atmosphere. Accessing the HUDs is done in-game and projected in front of 
 your character, as well as your inventory or mission objectives. The character models look good, 
 especially the monsters, which look absolutely horrific. In a good way. 
  
  Sound : 10
  
  The use of atmospheric audio in Dead Space is excellent. Strange whispers can be heard in the 
 washrooms, desperate screams for help from the ventilation shaft. When everything goes silent, 
 you can still hear the thumping of your own heartbeat.
  
  Game Play : 9
  
  The game play is similar to other survival horror games, although Dead Space defines itself with 
 its own unique system. The third person view creates tension from not knowing what lies off-screen, 
 and you can often hear them before you can see them. This allows for some exciting gameplay moments, 
 usually followed by sickening limb-dismembering carnage.
  
  Replay : 8
  
  An impossible mode can be unlocked for any hardcore gamer willing. Do you have what it takes?
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexandrevitch
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  At first, i was a little confused with the mode that our character is on your screen, i mean, the 
 concept of a player not being able to change our own view of the character, and only being able 
 to play it with him on the left of your screen like a role player game, but the wide and complete 
 controls that we have made everything a matter of time to be comfortable with the original controls 
 of the player. The game has is own story and it made out of a beginning, a development and a end, 
 it's the kind of game that you match it with a great and original, or at least new story and great 
 game play, that with a high difficult level you really can spend a great amount of hours taking 
 advantage of this great game, not that we expected less from EA. And it's not heavy to your machine, 
 i mean, it has a good engine for the gameplay. Try it and you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heretic_Zero
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying, "WOW".
  
  Dead Space is the MOST intense third person shooter I have ever played. Graphically, this game 
 is stunning, and the story is for the most part, very original. 
  
  Many people are complaining about the control scheme. I don't know how many of these people are 
 new to PC gaming, but if you plan on purchasing this game because it looks better on PC, you might 
 not enjoy it. If you can't handle using a keyboard and mouse, stick to consoles. I personally found 
 the controls to be very comfortable; I had no trouble maneuvering Isaac at all. The camera angle 
 is in a very good position as well, although it may add to the length of the games learning curve 
 (if you're new to TPS's, or just don't like over the shoulder views) . The level designs are very 
 well thought out, which helps because the Ishimura is a very large ship, and surprisingly hard 
 to get lost on (especially with the innovative 'breadcrumbs'; a piece of technology built into 
 Isaac's RIG, more specifically, the palm of his hand, which shows you where to go any time you 
 activate it) . 
  
  A great thing about PC games is that you can have a much broader range of control customization, 
 so, if you're worried about the control bickering, I personally think it has no merit.
  
  The horror is, well, horrifying; it's very tastefully done (and by tasteful, I mean beautifully 
 bloody and shocking) . The atmosphere is dark and sinister, accompanied by outstanding lighting, 
 and a film worthy musical score. Your moments of solace come in form of a work bench, on which 
 you can upgrade your RIG and weaponry with power nodes.'Strategic dismemberment' is no more a gimmick 
 than it is extremely entertaining, and it's really fun. Although most of the time you may find 
 yourself ignoring the benefits of aiming for certain body parts in high pressure situations, over 
 the course of the game your focus does increase, and you will master the art of dismemberment. 
 A very handy ability is 'Stasis', a kind of freezing wave/ray that allows Isaac to slow down enemies, 
 which aids in dismembering your alien foe before they rip you to shreds. (as it is quite crucial 
 to your survival) . 
  
  I found the game experience to be very immersing -- so much so that I was able to finish it in 
 one afternoon.
  With that in mind, you may find Dead Space to be relatively short, clocking in at around 10-12 
 hours of game-play, depending on what kind of gamer you are and, what difficulty you play it on. 
 Don't let that dissuade you though, this game is by all means, a must play.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladin_1010
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Eventually, they are going to completely abandon PC games and gamers. They are desinging games 
 with CONSOLE controllers in mind more than your PC's ouse and keyboard. That means you'll get the 
 same sluggish crappy controls as a crappy game pad with it's terribly difficult-to-control thumb 
 weenie directional controls on your PC as well.
  
  I stopped playing console games due to this probelem alone.
  
  I can't stand the feel of thumb 
 controls. 
  
  This game would have been great I think, if it weren't for the terrible camera view and unmappable 
 console controls feel of the game.
  
  I wish game developers still cared about PC gamers, but it is proven over and over that they do 
 not, anymore.
  
  I will never buy a game again if they keep this sloppy, impossible PC game control setups crap 
 up.
  
  And oh, guess what, I will never buy a console game because of the same problem. This is not a 
 threat, it's a promise.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gphilli15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It's probably the best game I have bought in a very long time. The graphics 
 are sweet, the story is deep and the game play is innovative. This game reinvents the shooter, 
 the dismemberment feature creates a whole new means of combat, and is really fun too. The story 
 goes in depth a lot, I mean if you watch Deep Space Downfall along with the 6 comics you really 
 put yourself in the story. The HUD is like nothing I have ever seen before; it really entices the 
 true feeling of actually being on the ship. Other reviews for the pc say that the mouse controls 
 are horrendous; I was very worried when buying this game that I would experience the same thing. 
 However, the mouse controls are perfect, I didn't have to even touch the mouse sensitivity settings 
 on windows or the game. I just played it as is and was extremely satisfied. By the way, I have 
 a creative fatality 1010 mouse if that makes any difference. Very Good Game! If you are into shooters 
 or horror or sci-fi adventure or whatever, this game is a definite must. It changed my perspective 
 on the next gen games and I hope that stays consistent. The only complaints I have about the game 
 are: small areas make shooting enemies difficult and frustrating, ammo seems to go quick and without 
 ammo you're basically screwed, things in the store are quite expensive and money is hard to find; 
 for me at least, and sometimes when you shoot at the limbs they don't come off like they're supposed 
 to; this makes it difficult to conserve ammo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jhawksmich
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Before I got this game, I really didn't know alot about this game other than a few screenshots 
 that i saw, and that it was suppose to be scary. As a fan of survival horror games, i decided to 
 give the game a shot. I found out that this is a fantastic game that is filled with tense moments. 
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Normally, I don't think graphics are big factor in most games, but i do think they are important 
 in horror games. Dead Space delivers some grade "A" graphics, with good character/ monster models, 
 and beautiful scary environments that run at a smooth frame rate.
  
  Sound: 
  
  This game really excels in the sound department. It knows when to make creepy music and when to 
 be silent. It makes really cool sound effects, like when in a vacuum, as well as nice effects from 
 monsters and from your weapons, such as the ripper.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay is very similar to resident evil 4, but with slightly better controls. enemies start off 
 easy in the earlier chapters, but stronger, faster and different variation of monsters are introduced 
 later on. The game implements interesting puzzles into the game by using kinesis and stasis. The 
 best and most exilerating parts of this game are when you are locked in a room with poor lighting 
 and are fighting off multiple enemies at once. Tense moments like this are whata make this game 
 fantastic.
  
  Value: 
  
  This game last about 15hrs the first time through, depending on how well you do. When you beat 
 the game, you unlock a new difficulty setting and have access to a new level 6 suit. I personally 
 wouldnt get rid of this game because I love horror games. But Some people when they beat the game 
 won't find any more reason to play it.
  
  overall: A-
  
  If the value of the game after you beat it makes you hesitant to play, at least rent it. This game 
 is a definite must play that is a non-stop thrill ride
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Cdt
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Really, is anyone surprised? How many times have we seen a perfectly good game get shafted by poor 
 controls? Resident Evil4, StarTrek: Legacy, the list is endless. Why are pc gamers always forced 
 to buy a gamepad to even play these things? If i wanted to play with one, i would have bought a 
 console!
  Im sure its a pretty good game, but i couldnt get myself to play for more than 10 minutes, the 
 controls are just horrid. Just what was the reasoning to bar players from remapping keys? And whats 
 the deal with mouse sensitivy, and the terrible camera angles? Are the devs at EA this stupid, 
 to release it like this? Seems so...
  If you play with a console, you might very well enjoy this game. But if you play a PC, avoid this 
 game like the plague. Your mental health will thank you in the future.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oggy1985
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  Really good game! I enjoy playing it. At the start i was a bit by the influence of - 2 much console 
 like. But then i started to get used to game - and i love it!
  The atmosphere is great, dynamic, the graphics is really good and the sound is really adding to 
 the atmosphere.
  
  The monsters are well designed and crated, the story is good, and the atmosphere is really amazing! 
 The game is rely linear dough, but with all the monsters, the atmosphere and the gameplay, you 
 won't notice it, or it wont bother you (well, at least it didn't bother me) . The story and the 
 game just sucks you in, trough the dark corridors and large open hangar spaces. Oh, and 0G and 
 vacuum spaces, they really hit the jackpot on that! You really feel like flying in space, or feel 
 the vacuum around you.
  
  Weapons and their management are creative, i really like the weapon upgrade system, and ammo management. 
 Hell, you're the miner in the space, not some hard-core action pumped up marine with unlimited 
 ammo supply. You really have to think of how to kill each monster, and preserve your ammunition, 
 while carefully choosing the weapon type and setup of your inventory.
  
  Graphic of the game landscape is great, tight corridors are well designed, and everything just 
 looks like the real spaceship. And you can enjoy a walk in the space with which you'll be "rewarded" 
 every here and there in the game.
  
  Monsters and alien modified parts of the ship look great, bring to the atmosphere...
  
  Well, 
 to end it up - you have the game play, you have the graphics, you have REALLY GREAT ATMOSPHERE, 
 and if you don't mind the linearity of the game, you re gonna love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixrebirth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  Ok this in my opinion is the horror game of the year.
  
  The no on screen hud idea is brilliant and should be copied in future games. Everything in real 
 time. No jumping to an off screen menu to escape a necromorph (space zombie) . No sir. Even when 
 u are buying items in the store they can attack u. Really really great idea. Seriously more games 
 should utilize this. They did a good job of making u feel like something aint kosher and u should 
 be on point walking through the ship. Seriously I mean be on point. 
  
  Graphics are great, and the sound is even better. Please play this game at nite... w/ no lights 
 on w/ your surround sound turned up. Trust me. 
  
  Played everything maxed out at 1920 x 1200 res. Again game looked great. I dont know if this game 
 supports dual gpu's but on my 4870x2 (oc'd to 800 mhz core / 900 mhz ram) I was averaging 80 - 90 
 fps. Max fps I got was around 140. And yes again thats with everything maxed at 1920 x 1200 res. 
 Im running a Q9550 oc's to 4ghz, 4gigs of ddr 2 1066mhz ram downclocked to like 935mhz on an asus 
 rampage. Game ran soooo smooth. I was actually shocked it ran that smooth from gate with no patches. 
 See this is how u are suppose to put out a game. There were actually only two hiccups to be honest 
 during me playing the game from start to finish. Sound went nutz on me twice and I had to force 
 a restart. Could be the ati drivers since they still a lil buggy but those were the only two times 
 any problems occured and they were fixed w/ a reboot of my rig. It got a lil annoying especially 
 when u really into a level but the game still played even when the sound acted like it went off 
 its meds. Before both times sound went gaga I just paused... went to save game... saved my game... rebooted 
 and bam Im back. Considering I had a number of crash issues with Crysis Warhead only having to 
 reboot twice from start to finish with this game is a blessing. And after those two incidents they 
 never happened again and game ran like butter. 
  
  Story is good and gameplay is on point. The over the shoulder perspective will throw some people 
 off when u first play. Lord knows it threw me off. Had me thinking this game should have been in 
 first person, but after an hr or so of playing that thought disappears. 
  
  Again the devs did a bang up job making u feel like a necromorph can jump out at u at any time. 
 In front of u, behind u, on top of u, wherever. These bastards even climb the vents to flank u 
 if they see u coming and think they can get the jump on u. SOBs. Good AI.
  
  Oh and this is not a shooter so dont expect to go going all Marucs Fenix, or Master Chief. Straight 
 headshots arent gonna cut it here. Shoot limbs to down enemies, or on certain necros... well u'll 
 find out. Always make sure yur aim is on point cause u have limited ammo. U get to upgrade weapons 
 and yur suit but that requires power nodes which u can find on the ship or buy at the store but 
 they aint cheap. Yes the game has an rpg element. Think Mass Effects if the your ship was like 
 8 times bigger with no crew left alive and u have a sh*t load less ammo with no comminication to 
 the outside world, and zombies are all over the ship itching for u to slip up so they can make 
 u the next featured corpse on Rotten. com.
  
  In closing. IMO this game is hands down one of the best games of 2008. Im looking forward to more 
 titles from the developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game there were a number of things I didn't like...
  
  The way the character moved - too slow 
  
  The way the aiming was either too slow or too fast
 
  
  The perspective - especially in close spaces
  
  Basically if was obviously a console port with the neccesary inferiorities a console game brings... clunky 
 controls... etc
  
  Although I have heard that on the 360 it is much worse...
  
  However what is really important about this game is the story that drives it... decent voice acting 
 and a good script immerse someone like me who is a big sci-fi horror fan immediately into the game... more 
 so than a basic horror game that many would label as more scary.
  
  Not for me though, the first few hours playing this game I was as tense as I ever have been playing 
 a game, not since System Shock 2 have I needed to stop playing a game because I was getting so 
 tense.
  
  It is not just about monsters popping out... it is about the excellent and unnerving sounds... the 
 excellent plot... the in game video communications and inventory... and finally the perspective which 
 helps immerse you, even though I didn't like it in the begining.
  
  Anyhow the awkward shooting controls and perspective add to the tension so you end up getting used 
 to them and appreciating the game.
  
  It does to some extent follow a similar format of "oh no we are going to need this computer up" 
 then when you fix it "oh no someone has cut the power you will need to restart the reactor"... however 
 the games tension, story and inventive weaponry help keep it fresh throughout this repetition.
 
  
  Anyone who is a big fan of the Alien films will spot hundreds of things affectionately lifted, 
 including actual sounds if I am not mistaken. 
  
  Overall - Good game carried by a quality story... consolely controls and slight repetition but ultimately 
 worth playing through for sure.
  
  I won't however be replaying it I suspect purely because the combat system and movement system 
 is just not fluid enough for me... and the second time the story wont carry it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar2J
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Ordinarily I do not purchase a game until at least some reviews have been done, or I hear something 
 from friend that are gamers. In this case I decided it looked like it had some potential. Was I 
 wrong!
  
  Unless you are a person who likes to be on the edge almost every single second, this might not 
 be the game for you. For me a good shooter gives one time to breathe, or at least time to look 
 around to find a reasonable solution to the problem at hand. Scanning an area while under attack 
 is very difficult. To give some perspective, all of the 'Call of Duty' programs, in my mind were 
 my type of game. Not the content necessarily, but the actual game play. Even the Novice level in 
 Dead Space is like playing COD on some level above Master.
  
  The default controls and the unchangeable viewing perspective (while in game play) is cumbersome 
 at best. Trying to pick up only one item while it lies close to another is a serious challenge, 
 which most times takes walking round to come at it from a different direction. Trying to aim weapons 
 is really a nightmare, especially when there are more than one adversary. This is one of those 
 games (IMO) that should have been left in the game console format, or better yet, at the arcade 
 where one could drop some $$ and walk away with little regret and not having to look at the box 
 sitting on the shelf over the monitor, contemplating why there are anti-piracy laws, but no laws 
 on Buyers' remorse.
  
  The only plus side, I found, after being offed, I did not have to start back at some last saved 
 point. However, what offsets that plus (like in Gears of War) how many times do you have to listen 
 to some announcement? In one case, "You are entering zero atmosphere", "you are entering zero gravity", 
 "I detect impacts on the south east side of the hull", just before being splattered into space, 
 or tag-teamed by several critters, one capable of total regeneration, and then have to watch helplessly 
 for 10 seconds while your character is impaled, cut up and smeared all over the room, only to start 
 back over listening to the same transmissions warning you of impending danger. The repetitiveness 
 is very annoying.
  
  I am currently on level 5 with the thought in the back of my mind things are only going to get 
 more difficult and frustrating. Even with less than 10 hours of game play, I have decided this 
 is another one that will go up on the shelf, only to be resurrected when there is nothing better 
 to do.
  
  Great! UPS just showed up with 'Fallout 3' 
  Oh! Thank God ... I hope?!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowerpass
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  First of all this is one of the best games this year. At first I was really worried about this 
 game especially after games like Alone in the dark which was a big letdown. But dead space actually 
 exceeded my all expectations. First of all the graphics is superb. One other thing that i really 
 liked that there is no hud. So that makes the game more involving. The gameplay is also great. 
 It really feels satisfying to dismember the enemies. The story is very good and well scripted. 
 The boss fights are really epic. Then comes the sound which is one of its strongest point. Here 
 you can upgrade your weapon the way you want it to be. The game is gruesomely violent which is 
 a good thing for gamers like us. But no game is perfect so it is also true that this game has some 
 minor flaws. Like the hand to hand combat could have been made better. But even it has some minor 
 flaws it is really easy to overlook those because other things about the game are just so great. 
 So i will recommend to anyone who ever has the heart to play it ofcourse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigInc
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  When I first read about this game it was only a few weeks before it was being released so I hadn't 
 really seen any of the hype or read much about the game. I just knew after seeing a few of the 
 video's this was a must have!
  
  Just to give a little background I've really enjoyed the resident evil franchise so this game was 
 a no brainer for me to buy and try out.
  
  The first thing I noticed was the fact that it reminded me of the game bioshock as far as the elements 
 in the game. Weapon upgrades, stations to re-charge certain abilities and purchase items etc. The 
 biggest thing so far that stands out in my point of view is the zero-g area's and the overall environment 
 is just simply awsome!
  
  I've read a lot of reviews where people are complaining about lag when moving the mouse but I have 
 not experienced any of those problems. It could possibly be from having a lower end machine or 
 a hardware issues? That's the risk when you buy a PC game compatibility issues. Also, when ppl 
 complain about 3rd person view I don't understand. If you checked out the previews you would have 
 known that's how it was going to be. What more did you expect! I bought this game on the PC because 
 I knew the graphics would be better than on my xbox or ps3 etc.
  
  Overall, this game is a must have and I can't wait to see the ending and the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soundsofunknown
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  A game every1 would like.. its 2008 and every game will be like that with some more or different 
 options.. this game is a opening to 3rd generation games with good graphics.. nice cinematic s.... interesting 
 story.. and controls... remember every game will be like that in action genre.. if not check FALLOUT 
 3... This game has all the elements that 3rd generation game should have.... and the zero-gravity 
 system... makes it different from other games... A must buy game. My specifications are not to high 
 dual core 3.0 mhz ...8500gt....2gb ram.... and surprisingly it runs as smooth as Every gamer wants 
 on full graphics settings......... I am looking forward to these type of games as its a current 
 generation need and the coding is done so perfectly that it not possible to describe in few words. 
 Just play this game and u will never regret... just like resident evil 4.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SageFrenchkiss
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  This is the greatest survival horror game I've ever played. It draws heavily on the successes of 
 games like Resident Evil 4, while eliminating many of the clunkier design decisions of the previous-generations 
 versions of the genre.
  
  Dead Space is permeated by a sense of isolation and claustrophobia. As you make your way through 
 the horrors of the planet-cracker Ishimura, the sense of being truly ALONE is ever-present, and 
 adds to the atmosphere in subtle ways. 
  
  Adding to the suspense is incredibly well-done audio design, adding layers of tension to the gameplay. 
 The audio is fully tuned into the visuals of the game, to the point where the sound and music will 
 dynamically change depending on your view of the environment. 
  
  If you turn your head around a corner and suddenly spot one of the game's many writhing, slithering 
 beasties approaching, the game intuitively knows that this is a "reveal", and will immediately 
 unleash a shrill noise or shriek to accentuate the moment. It makes for a truly dynamic and unnerving 
 cinematic experience, without relying on scripted events or "monster closets" to scare the player.
 
  
  The creatures themselves can be described as an amalgam of the horrors from the movies "Aliens" 
 and "The Thing",
  truly grotesque abominations that come in many forms. You will be surprised at just how many different 
 kinds of nasty enemies there are in this game.
  
  Another big improvement over the horror games of the past is the use of in-game indicators for 
 your health and inventory. Your health is displayed as a glowing tube along your spine, and the 
 amount of ammunition left in your weapons is displayed alongside them on a small popup display. 
 
  
  Instead of switching to a menu to view your inventory and map, you call it up as a holographic 
 image next to the player's body (he turns his head to look at it and follows your cursor as you 
 navigate around the items) . This makes it so that you never really leave the action, which leaves 
 you open to attack while you're looking through the menus. It avoids breaking up the suspense, 
 which makes the whole experience even more cohesive and immersive.
  
  The combat itself is also a brand new take on targeting, since you can no longer shoot wildly to 
 kill enemies. You have to specifically target the limbs of the creatures attacking you, to dismember 
 them. Otherwise, your fruitless attacks will get them angry and they'll charge you in a fit of 
 rage.
  
  The weapons are almost all brand new designs, far from the usual "pistol, shotgun, machine gun, 
 rocket launcher" lineup of other shooters. Taking inspiration from RE4 again, you use a laser targeting 
 system to aim at the creatures limbs, blasting them apart piece by piece.
  
  It's a truly rewarding experience once you get used to it, and the weapons all look and sound powerful, 
 which is important since they're the only things between you and seemingly insurmountable odds 
 of a grisly death.
  
  Weapon, armor and utility upgrades are all available through the "power node" system, which is 
 used to improve everything from the ammo capacity and damage of a weapon, to the level of HP and 
 air supply of your suit, or the range and duration of your stasis and kinetics units (which are 
 used to manipulate the environment and slow down the speed of enemies to make them easier to kill) .
 
  
  Zero Gravity is also introduced a few hours into the game, which presents new opportunities for 
 combat and puzzle solving.
  
  
  Overall, Dead Space is an incredible experience. I can't recommend it enough to anyone who is a 
 fan of horror, sci-fi and gore. It will keep you fully immersed up until the very end, and then 
 it gives you even more incentive to play through it another time.
  
  
  I played this game on a PC, using a 360 gamepad, which seemed to work better with the context-sensitive 
 controls than the keyboard did. I'd recommend using the gamepad for PC users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a game that strives to immerse the player as much as possible in fear and anxiety 
 and it does an excellent job at it.
  
  You play as an engineer accompanied with two supporting characters sent on a mission to investigate 
 a very large planet mining ship. After accidentally crashing into the docking bay and few minutes 
 in the game, you discover that the original human crew have been mutated in various types of monstrosities 
 and the story unfolds from there
  
  The player view is a 3rd person close-to-shoulder. It can sometimes be quite frustrating for PC 
 gamers because of the mouse sensitivity and response time. A game pad would be more fitting for 
 the task; control drawbacks are forgettable though once the feel of it settles.
  
  The game play dynamics are original and innovative. The most striking feature, or lack thereof 
 is there is no HUD. Information about ammo and health are displayed on the character's gun and 
 suit respectively. a holographic PDA displays inventory, mission objectives, logs, etc. The hero 
 is no space marine or super soldier, he's just an engineer with an array of very powerful "tools" 
 used to remove limbs on the freakishly multi-limbed mutant enemy encounters. 
  
  The main weapon, or the chef's trusty knife, is the plasma cutter, it can shoot vertically or horizontally 
 for maximum dismemberment effectiveness. Speaking of limb removal, this game encourages you to 
 carefully chop up your enemies and make sushi by providing about 5 types of weapons of various 
 usage, for example a remote saw blade (unreal tournament, anyone?) , a "force" gun, which can kill 
 almost anything with one hit, and eviscerates the larger, tougher mini-bosses. The other weapons 
 are not very original as they've been seen in most popular first person shooters. The added bonus 
 is items are upgradeable through power-ups.
  
  The levels consist mostly of tight hallways (Hellways) , spattered with blood, strange text scribbled 
 all over, limbs litter the ground, it's just utterly nauseating. Huge mining spaceships usually 
 have awesome 0 gravity exteriors to venture about in order to complete missions. And oh-my the 
 missions are varied; you'll be sent around the different compartments of the ship and solve some 
 simple puzzles here and there, jump out of your seat as scripted events galore throw monsters from 
 the ceiling, floors and sometimes out of nowhere, but you never feel like you've been in the same 
 place twice due to the excellent pace of the story.
  
  The driving force behind the plot is your two diverse mates you crashed in with. They oftentimes 
 balk orders at you via video transmission, which heightens the already tense atmosphere. Along 
 the way there are some crazy twists and turns to experience and you will feel highly rewarded when 
 completing missions because each step taken means one step closer from getting out of the dreaded 
 spaceship.
  
  There are some minor drawbacks in the graphics department though: the textures are not too fancy 
 and the endless supply of retro style ugly wall vent fans do become irritating after the first 
 map (who's idea was this?) .
  
  The performance felt very solid and polished, no bugs to speak of. It ran very well with all eye 
 candy maxed out.
  
  As a sci-fi fan, I really liked this game and would recommend it to any gamer who's enjoyed watching 
 movies like Event Horizon, The Thing, Alien and played games like Doom 3 and system shock 2, you'll 
 find alot of nostalgia in Dead Space. Make sure to turn up the volume and wear headphones to experience 
 the creepy ambient sounds and mutant howls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graymic
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Now first things first, i know some people have been moaning about the game however i find it quite 
 an atmospheric game, now im not a major fan of survival horrors, i used to like RE series but never 
 found them "horror" as per say. Now this game has made me jump, it's not "surprising" like RE and 
 other games but more of a psychological game to a degree as you always think something is going 
 to jump out but it doesn't, then it does after you think everything has gone fine, even when you 
 have cleared a room you have that little uncertainty in the back of your head. Now graphics wise 
 i will say 8.5/10 not the best graphics but very good for the type of gameplay, i haven't got pass 
 ch2 yet and im playing on hard atm, it's a decent challenge well worth the pennies. 
  
  Only thing im disapointed about would have to be the purchase from direct2drive. I ended up having 
 a transfer rate of 5kbs for a += 7.00gb file. So i ended up using my paid for cd key on an alternate 
 method of obtaining the game. This was a shame, however at the end of the day the game was bought 
 i used my cd key and im happy with the product. If you are going to use an instant dl method be 
 aware this is a heavy game and will take a while to dl.
  
  Overall very good must buy and looking forward to playing this through the second time round. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nvorgang
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a really immersive game. The lack of a HUD and the having to check your inventory in real 
 time is a nice concept for the survival horror genre. I agree, the pc controls aren't perfect, 
 but I have an Xbox 360 controller hooked up to my rig and Dead Space recognizes it, so I'm having 
 no problems in the control department. My only complaint is the DRM issue, but it's not too bad. 
 If anything, legitimate owners know ways around this.
  
  If you don't have a 360 controller for the pc, I would not recommend it because the keyboard controls 
 need some tweaking, but if you have a controller for your pc, I would go for it.
  
  I'm glad EA is trying new IPs because if they put the effort into all of them like in Dead Space, 
 we will be getting some quality software.
  
  One last note, the audio is AMAZING! I suggest you have a good set of headphones or a good set 
 of speakers because the sound really helps set the atmosphere of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazawa
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  First of all, lets clear something out. In case you are a cripple or retard so you can't move a 
 mouse, you'll 
  probably whine about camera in this game. In that case press the "thumb down" for this review NOW 
 and don't bother reading after this point.
  
  This game brought me joy, after a long time ago. And I mean loooong time. I think Doom3 was the 
 last time I felt a pure horror ambient. It's full of surprises, monsters appearing from everywhere. 
 Sometimes you can guess what's gonna happen' and sometimes you get scared badly.
  
  Story i quite nice. Combination of Doom and Bioshock is present all the time. Scary as hell. Ambient 
 music and sounds are really improving the quality of horror. The whispering, sounds of metal, passing 
 by a guy that's trying to smash his head... yea, all that sounds and of course.. BLOOD. There's 
 a lot of gore in this game. There has to be 'cause the only way to kill the monsters is to chop 
 their limbs off. No further explanation needed. 
  
  There are quite a lot cut scenes of something blowing up, you being sucked by some baby with 3... 
 things coming out its back and stuff like that.
  
  All in all, 9/10 from me. Scary, dark, nice story to follow... 9 is because i haven't finished 
 it yet. I hope the end doesn't suck. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dollomite704
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I must say this game runs like a champ. Super-smooth graphics really impress me and immerse me 
 into the environment. The sound in this game is out of this world good - it will literally scare 
 the pants off you at times. The environments are great and highly detailed. It is under appreciated 
 for its innovative control panels, environments, creatures and a whole lot of other graphical stuff 
 to boot going on all at the same time very smoothly and realistically. 
  My only draw back on this game is it is short and the controls seem sluggish - something I noticed 
 others complained about as well. But do not let that hold you back - it is not as bad as it sounds, 
 just slightly annoying when you are used to rapid fast 1st person shooters. 
  Great game all around and well worth owning! I highly recommend it... with the lights on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorCream
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  The following factors make this game a must-own:
  
  
  Dead Space is essentially Doom3 in third person, with time slowing capabilities from the Fear franchise, 
 Half Life's immortalized gravity gun, and an exceptional loot / treasure type approach to skill 
 advancement.
  
  Add in a story line resembling Sunshine meets Aliens meets Doom 3, and you have an instant masterpiece.
 
  
  The game features roughly eight very unique weapons, and the ability to specialize within any of 
 them. The choice truly impacts the style of play as well, with focus on more precision and dismemberment 
 than an all out spray fest (think Starship Troopers) .
  
  
  Combat - superb pacing, with multiple options for advancement and possibly the single most satisfying 
 hand gun ever made.
  
  Graphics - very satisfying with exceptional usage of the environment and physics. Proof again that 
 value and enjoyment lays in intelligent gameplay and design, not in the use of overrated / poorly 
 optimized engines that need a $2k to $3k rig to run.
  
  Levels - superb level design, with what I believe is the single best 3-D map / tracking feature 
 ever created.
  
  Immersion - off the charts, thanks to the unique 3rd person approach and holographic imaging that 
 constantly keeps you in the game. Even participation in real time "cut scenes" separates this game 
 from the pack in terms of innovation and pathway design.
  
  
  All in all a true scare fest and cinematic-type gaming event that will keep you riveted for a good 
 10 to 12 hours through its exceptional story line and plot.
  
  Gameplay takes maybe 5 minutes to learn, including use of the holographic projector for mission 
 updates, mapped pathways, and inventory management. The style of movement is exceptional and unique 
 too, as the slightly slower pace than traditional FPS games (you are in a suit in space after all) 
 heightens combat and the sense of realism as you clear enemies / threats room to room.
  
  Loved the layout, the chapter style, the full on graphic immersion of the game, with plenty of 
 challenges, unique scenarios, and combat packing to appeal to even the most die-hard FPS lover.
 
  
  
  
  - DoctorCream
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi098
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  I'd like to start at the bad end of the game first.
  
  Controls:
  
  Many players have complained about this over and over again:
  Slow mouse well this really isn't 
 a problem just remember to TURN OFF VSYNC and then the mouse will move much much smoother. However 
 some controls really are annoying mainly the fact that you don't have mouse in inventory.
  
  View or the new HUD design.
  
  Basically through out the entire game you will have a over 
 the shoulder view much like in Mass Effect. I found this very interesting and ad's to the already 
 great atmosphere. In my personal opinion this isn't bad at all in fact it makes the game more fun.
 
  
  Now on to the rest:
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphics are amazing considering even old computers can play at high settings and enjoy the game 
 at great frame rates. Even if at maximum the game isn't really up to par with the detail of other 
 recent releases such as Crysis, Far cry 2, Call of Duty for and many others, however the lighting 
 and texture detail so an amazing job with the atmosphere.
  
  Sound:
  
  Music is perfect for a sci-fi horror game. Gun sounds are amazingly well done and monsters... well 
 they sound convincingly scary.
  
  Gameplay.
  
  The unique combination of the in-game HUD graphics sound and the ability to dismember all monsters 
 packed together with scarce ammo, make for a fun and pretty scary game.
  
  Although the storyline in it self isn't really that much it's good enough to drive this game and 
 not get in they way of amazing new gameplay mechanics such as zero-G battles and no air environments.
 
  
  All-in-all this game is a must have for any horror survival fan and I recommend that all you old 
 players of this genre pick Medium or hard difficulty as easy as the titles says truly is easy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1DdL3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  Dead Space, I didn't see the movie but the game is very good. From it's start, from it's menu actually 
 it gives you a feeling that something is going wrong.
  
  Story:
  
  You start in a space ship and you are an engineer named Isaac, (before that you see a girl named 
 Nicole in a video which must be your character's wife) and you must be in lightspeed because you 
 can't see anything outside like the Star Wars movies and games but when you get out off that speed 
 or whatever that is the view is great you see the Planet Cracker spaceship ishimura that you are 
 sent to restore communications and do some repairs. You get stuck on a magnetic field which draws 
 violently towards the Planet Cracker and then the leader sais to switch to manual drive the spaceship 
 and you land safe but your crew's ship receives some damage. Comments from your team indicate that 
 something is wrong and there is no crew in the Planet Cracker and when you check the damage report 
 and you go to another room (separate from the rest of your team) and an alien monster jumps you 
 and you just start to run. From there the action starts and the story begins.
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  
  The graphics are great, at least for me I have 1280x1024 resolution and settings 
 set to Medium and despite something I read I can say that they are quite compared to those of Doom 
 3 and even better (because Doom 3 is a legendary but quite old game) . Whatever with no bloom, antialising 
 and no blur effect and shadow being set to medium the game runs really good on my system and has 
 great graphics. The sounds are really good metals being scratched, screams, creatures moving around, sudden 
 jumps... Everything on sound is really good and wherever there is music it sounds great it's not 
 too loud neither too low it's just right makes a perfect atmosphere.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is well... After a while playable. The camera is not able to be modified. It's above 
 the character's shoulder as in Resident Evil 4. But in Resident Evil 4 you could see the left side 
 of your characters more but here your vision is a little bit closed especially in small rooms then 
 the camera is really annoying. Especially at the start of the game it made my life really hard until 
 i learned to play with it after like 20 minutes (maybe more for some people) you get used to it and 
 it's not such a big problem. The keys are easy no problem with that, your character walks and doesn't 
 run, but you can run with Shift pressed and wasd as in most action games. What I did not like is 
 some lack in tutorial like these boxes with the green glowing signal on them, you can break them (something 
 i found by luck) and it is not mentioned in the tutorial. The shooting and melee system is quite 
 easy, but enemies may block your direct attacks and it is a risk to go near them to stomp them (with 
 spacebar) . Your mouse acts like the characters right hand (keep that in mind because it will help 
 you with some unique monsters and bosses) . Some special gadgets like Stasis (which helps you make 
 objects and monsters move slower but it is expandable) and Kinesis (which helps you move objects 
 and throw them and is not expandable) are used by aiming and pressing F or C (Default Keys) . So 
 the gameplay is good with the biggest negative is it's camera.
  
  The game is quite good especially for a horror sci-fi it brings back the good moments of Doom 3 
 with the way the monsters jump at you and scare you. I surely sudgest it to people that like games 
 like Doom 3, Resident Evil 4,3rd person shooters (It has some similar points with Gears of War as 
 well) and generally to people that like sci fi and horror games. I don't suggest it to people that 
 don't like 3rd person shooters because and to impatient people because getting used to the camera 
 may take a while. From me it is a great game and takes a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbashour
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Before Dead Space, the only other horror games I had played were Resident Evil 4 and Doom 3 if 
 you count that. I thought RE4 was amazing which made me look into Dead Space. 
  
  Sure Dead Space is very similar to RE4 in its 3rd person, inventory setup, and weapon upgrading 
 but the location of a derelict spaceship creates a totally unique experience. This game is immersive. 
 For example, when I enter a vacuum and the sound changes to only Isaac's gasps for air and vibrations 
 I find myself actually feeling tense and holding my breath. It is that good. 
  
  The fighting is fun although it gets repetitive since there aren't a huge selection of enemies 
 to fight from. But slicing through the limbs is always fun, especially with upgraded weapons which 
 feature a different look and sound once they're fully upgraded. The boss battles are disappointing 
 after all the hype about them since they are so predictable and easy, but the normal combat makes 
 up for them. 
  
  As everyone says, the absence of the HUD may well be the best part about the game. It keeps you 
 right in the middle of the game as there a few cases when you're going to be attacked while scrolling 
 through menus, etc.
  
  The game does draw heavily from space thrillers like Aliens and Event Horizon as everyone has said, 
 but it feels fresh in this game. Maybe it is because I have not played other space survival-horror 
 games, but it is not trite. 
  
  As for the backtracking that Gamespot griped about, I did not find it to be a problem. Most of 
 the paths are circular so you just leave the last door in a level to come out near the first level. 
 You do revisit a few areas, but they seem to look different and the enemies are different each 
 time. 
  
  I thought the scariest points for me were when you were forced to run from an enemy. There was 
 nothing as scary as knowing that you could not take out an enemy yet you hear him gaining on you 
 while you're frantically trying to open a door. 
  
  The stasis and kinesis abilities were a nice addition although the puzzles that use them are plainly 
 obvious. I also found myself using them very little during combat compared to Gamespot. 
  
  Overall this game exceeded my expectations. The audio is great including most of the voice acting. 
 The visuals are better than any comparable game (Doom3, RE4, etc.) Especially on the PC, this game 
 looks terrific. It definitely has replayability as you can keep your weapons, although you can't 
 change the difficulty. It took me around 12-15 hours to beat the first time and about 6 to beat 
 the second time. Great stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerSS-3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Well what can i say of this game, is just amazing in every aspect.
  
  The graphics are just great and i have to say that the game is very optimized, you can run it even 
 in a low spec pc and im talking about a pc from 2002.
  The environment is very well designed with a lot effects of lighs and shadows.
  
  The sound 
 well is a convination of penumbra and silent hill, you will offen hear voice whispering things, 
 sounds of the ship very scaring or monsters noises and the music is just great.
  
  One thing you find in dead space is the possibility to upgrate your weapons and gear through a 
 system of collecting things called modules and using them you can also buy them.
  In the game you will be collecting items ammo and others kind of stuff and the good thing is that 
 you can store your items!
  You will have space in your gear to carry some limited amount of items and through the upgreat 
 system you will be able to add slots to your gear.
  
  Your char have 2 powers that you will have to use to pass some parts of the game, like miny puzzles 
 one is telequinesis and with the other you can slow down objects or anything you aim, you can always 
 upgreat your powers making them to last longer or have better range.
  
  The enemys are very well done and with your weapons you will cut them in 100 pieces the game have 
 a lot of gore and blood, to kill an enemy you have to cut they limbs or heads you cant kill them 
 in any other way, you can use the parts of your enemys like weapons with the telequinesis.
  
  Somes says that the camera is not good or is a little bit annoying but for me is fine is like 
 resident evil 4.
  
  Well the story is excelent too.
  
  So if you like survival horror games you must buy it and if you dont you have to give it a try 
 at least 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Daead Space is a game where you are in a place full of ugly monsters, just like many other horror 
 games. The story is great: on your way to repair the communications array, you encounter many monsters 
 called Necromorphs (who are the result of the transformation of your former crew-mates) .
  
  The weapons you can use are very good. You will also need to use some kind of tools to complete 
 some missions. And every different type of Necromorph will need a differebt tactic to be beaten. 
 Though they seem to be very clever at times, all of them have a weak point. The necromorph bosses 
 and the battles between them are also extraordinary.
  
  Notice, that your health bar is not shown somewhere on the screen. It is on your back (it is done 
 like that to seem more realistic) . The same is done for the ammo left, and for the direction you 
 can follow.
  
  Your aim is to escape the spaceship. But first, you will have to do a series of missions, which 
 unfortunately seem to be the same all time.
  
  The graphics of the game will left you with open mouth, just because the details are very good. 
 But the best point of the game is the sound. You can hear Necromorph coming your way without seeing 
 them, while the sounds you hear when you are out in space are different from the ones from inside 
 your suit, like breathing.
  
  Dead Space is an amazing horror game. Interesting and fearsome, the developers must be really determined 
 to do a solid strike in the 2008 awards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank_78
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  As I said, game isn't bad. Visually is very attractive and the story is quite interesting (even 
 if heavily borrowed from classics like Alien and Event Horizon) .
  
  The pain comes from gameplay and controls.
  Your main character take up half of the screen on 
 the left, and there's no way to change this stupid camera or at least to zoom a bit backward, controls 
 are some of the worst ever on a game.
  Mouse is slow as hell, even at maximum sensitivity pan around is a pain (and you must pan a lot, 
 because of your view angle that leave your left completely obstructed) , and when you try to aim 
 at targets...
  Aiming should help you in the gory task of dismembering your opponents, but due to EXTREMELY slow 
 mouse movements you cannot follow fast moving targets and most of the time you end up wasting precious 
 shots.
  
  
  Again, this is an example of gaming companies who completely lost their love for PC users. This 
 is not a port from console, this is the exact console game running on a PC.
  Maybe some developers thinks that the war is already lost for PC games, but there are still many 
 paying PC customers and this is not the way treat them.
  
  Ah, if someone like me selected the wrong language the first time and now cannot change it even 
 un-installing the game, you must search for a settings file in folder  
 Arts\Dead Space\
  That file remain even after un-installation and you must delete it by yourself if you want the 
 language menu to come back again.
  
  P. S.
  I noticed that every review that pointed at the fact that controls and camera are really badly 
 done received many "I disagree". Everyone is granted to give their point of view, but control and 
 camera ARE an issue and being a fanboy do not improve the game nor the controls... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pekkaka
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  Extremely satisfying game and there's many scary moments that can cause chills on your spine. The 
 ideas seem to be from many horror movies and games but they are very well used.
  
  The amount of violence can seem brutal but it's not overdone. You'll dismember monsters even if 
 you do they're still coming for you. Sometimes you'll see your own limbs getting torn off or worse.
 
  
  M rating isn't a joke this time, this game is not for kids and should be played at dark, alone, 
 headphones preferred. Let the game take you.
  
  Sound Effects and all the extra details with lightning and shadows is very well used to produce 
 a truly scary/living atmosphere. You can be scared just by listening the sounds without getting 
 attacked.
  
  
  There are some reviews where PC users whine about sluggish mouse and what not but they're overdramatic 
 because there is a workaround!. Forcing VSYNC on from 3d card settings and off from the game fixes 
 it. So it's not true that the controls are bad but it's true that most of the downrankers are just 
 being lazy. 
  
  In the end this is one of the gems that should be tried by any horror-fans!. It's actually funny 
 but sometimes you can be too scared to play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rap0stle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  Dead Space obviously stands on the shoulders of many previous titles, such as RE, Silent Hill and 
 Half Life. There are elements of all these titles in the game play,
  but they are executed extremely well.... and with some worthy innovations on top of that, if not 
 at least decent tweaks.
  
  i read one gaming site review that said there were no real scares.. i got to disagree.... i haven't 
 been so juddered by a game since RE1 and SH 1. The game emanates atmosphere, soaks the player in 
 sights and sounds... the levels get a bit familiar, but redeemed by walking out into the vacuum 
 of space, the carcass of a cracked planet sprawling below.
  
  Innovation cant be placed in the combat or camera system, it has all been laid before, but the 
 stream lined information, ammo, health displays get big applause, it feels like no other title 
 i have played in that respect. 
  
  The innovation in combat lies in the dismemberment buzz, which just works out to point and blast 
 at the end of the day. 
  
  ... turn off v-sync .. that will get rid of the mouse problems. 
  
  Graphics are good on my 
 8800GT, but the sound effects are the real star of this title.... adding incremental tension to 
 scenes as the level heads to the climax. 
  
  The only weakness i think, is the very linear nature of the levels... there is a lot of essential 
 exploring to do, but it is all heading one way ultimately. RE and SH are linear in their own right, 
 yet it doesn't feel so much in your face as it does here... the hand holding aspect seriously subtracts 
 from the sum of all the elements that work, .. thus it isnt a 9 or 10 title. The space seige factor 
 lets it down. 
  
  More intricacy in the plot/action paths in a sequel would be a good step up. 
  
  definitely 
 going to be playing this one over again.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0rmy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a really good game. Had I know it was a console port, I would have picked up the 
 360 version. The controls are disappointing. At most times, they feel clunky and unfinished. Console 
 interfaces just don't work well on PCs. That's really my only complaint about the game.
  
  The story is really good. The voice acting is about a B+. The creatures are really cool and very 
 different. The "dismemberment system" is pretty fun. One of the guns basically lets you slice guys 
 in half with a laser like device. The graphics look very good on the PC. That's probably the one 
 upside of the PC version. All in all, this is a game you should get but don't buy the PC version. 
 Get it for your console if you have one. I wish I had.
  
  The only reason I didn't give the game a higher score was the subpar PC controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Houd1n1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  The mood music... the lovely graffitti art on the walls... the poseable manikins scattered all over 
 the place... um, okay so they aren't manikins...
  The game is great! It can stand right up there next to System Shock 2, Fear, and Bioshock as a 
 game that can scare the bejeesus out of you. The UI took a few minutes to get used to, as did the 
 3rd person viewpoint, but there wasn't much of a learning curve at all.
  The weaponry and gadgets are fun, and the Stasis and Kinesis modules are wonderful toys. Of course 
 a few more Power Nodes for equipment upgrades wouldn't hurt, but you can't have everything.
  I'm not extremely fond of the Save Point locations, but they don't seem to be too far apart from 
 each other.
  
  The graphics and the audio effects are downright scary even when I'm using headphones, which my 
 wife insists I wear when I'm playing Dead Space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volvaga0
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Dead space, in my opinion, is above the usual survival horror games. A mass array of creatures 
 coming at you from the darkness, creeping up behind you and just plainly jumping out from corners, 
 will constantly keep you on edge and ready for anything that comes your way. In one part of the 
 game you are going about your business walking around some corridors that are apparently clear 
 and zombie free when out of nowhere a huge arm comes out of the air vents and grabs Isaac, attempting 
 to pull you in. Your job is to shoot the arm in an attempt to break yourself free from its grasp. 
 It is because of these moments that Dead Space is a must buy for anyone that is wondering if you 
 should get it or not, definitely worth the purchase.
  
  With very good lighting and very good ambient sounds to plague you in your tasks, it fully immerses 
 you into the role of Isaac Clarke. Lighting plays a very big part to this game, whether it is light 
 creating ghastly shadows or just the lighting of the room it can really set the mood for what is 
 going to happen. This combined with the sound and ambient effects will increase the fear factor 
 within the player. Walking into a room only for the lights to go out, leaving a pitch black room, 
 the player can hear screaming and monstrous sounds coming from all angles will surely make the 
 player frightened and/or ready for an attack. But being ready for an attack can be decided by what 
 weapon you have and if you have the ammo for your weapons.
  
  The weapons that Isaac has are ranged from long range cutters, to short range flame throwers. Isaac 
 is an engineer, so his weapons where meant for cutting things. This is a huge advantage as to defeat 
 the creatures you will need to decapitate and dismember their arms and legs if you are to stay 
 alive. By aiming your cutting tools and there joints you will easily dismember your foes and defeat 
 them.
  
  Along your way you will find 'logs' left by the crew of the ship (the Ishimura) , whether these 
 be text logs, audio or video logs, these provide the much needed back story to how the Ishimura 
 came to be a zombie house. Theses logs are a direct link to the anime film 'Downfall' created in 
 conjunction with EA to form the back-story. By watching 'downfall' before playing dead space (highly 
 recommended) , picking up these logs from the game will make much more sense and will be able to 
 link each one to the film. Some video logs are taken from scenes in the anime film and you will 
 be able to say 'I remember that'. Apart from that you will have a much deeper understanding of 
 why the creatures are there and where they came from, than if you just jumped straight into the 
 game.
  
  The game play is from a 3rd person perspective, this draws the player into the action as they can 
 see what is happening to the character unlike you could if it was in 1st person. You want to keep 
 Isaac alive and carry on with the investigation. With some game play tweaks and lush visuals, this 
 is a must play for any gamer that feels the need for a much needed thrill.
  
  There are some problems with the game that some people have noted and are saying ruin the games 
 immersion. These are things like camera orientation and slow aim speeds. But these are not things 
 to worry about as these can be fixed. By disabling VSYNC things speed up and will allow for better 
 aim speeds even with the aim speed turned up in the options. There are some problems with the cursor 
 but these are very nit-picky things and do not warrant passing on this game by any means. The game 
 in my opinion is top notch and will guarantee a few scares along the way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This had the potential to be the next best thing in horror survival gaming. It's graphics, music 
 and overall presentation are above par. Keyboard mapping is not the best I have seen as some of 
 the selections are hard coded and unable to be changed.
  
  What is the horrible car crash though is EAs continued use of the most intrusive form of DRM man 
 has known. Again like in SPORE and MASS EFFECT you have SecUrom with limited activations. Imagine 
 your dismay when you discover you can only activate this a set number of times before you have 
 to call and beg EA for more activations and it's always a "case by case". Many posters on SPORE 
 boards have reported horror stories trying to get more activations after using them up. Activations 
 can be burnt by trivial things like swapping videocards. Again this feels like a limited life rental 
 title that in a few years will become a drink coaster.
  
  BUYER BEWARE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinthemaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first time I played Doom. The first person perspective added with gruesome monsters 
 and those growling sounds of a nearby creature ready to rip you off, was a really scary setup. 
 Then a tons of games came out with horror theme. I have played a couple of them included Resident 
 Evil 4 (Gamecube, my favorite to date) . Now I can easily say that Dead Space is now my top of the 
 chart horror game. Resident Evil was good but when you have encountered a couple of zombies, they 
 don't scares you anymore. In Dead Space, the atmospheric sounds and this feeling of being in danger 
 constantly keep your spine in a frozen bath. At every corner there is this chance of being surrounded 
 by those frightning creatures... and you don't want that. 
  
  Technically, this game is awsome! It's a combination of the great gameplay of resident evil (except 
 for the crappy PC port) and a couple of addons signed EA. The over the shoulder mechanic works 
 really good and the fact that your closer from Isaac compared to Leon in RE4 give this feeling 
 of being a part of the caracter and you really don't want to see him die. The PC graphics are just 
 masterfull and you want to take your time to explore every corner of the Ishimura to appreciate 
 every details. The keyboard and mouse setup is the negative point of the game. There is not enough 
 flexibility for configuration, so when you made a couple of tries you'll probably return to the 
 default settings. Once your used to the default config, the game plays well. I really love the 
 mouse responsiveness when i have to point and shoot and it's that fact that keeps me playing computer 
 games. No need for Xbox controller on this game (like RE 4 PC trash port) . The story is really 
 the best part of the game. Creatures makes you poop down your pants, but you want to continu your 
 quest to discover what happens to the Ishimura crew.
  
  Finally Dead Space is a horror masterpiece and needs absolutely a sequel and/or a prequel. I only 
 hope that there is no plans for a game-to-film adaptation of this franchise... It doesn't need 
 to be stained by a Hollywood garbage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: premier69
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  Oh this game was worth the wait, I hope this game will become an inspiration for years to come 
 to other developers since this game is just too sweet to be a onetime occurrence!
  
  Collecting money for purchases and upgrades, managing some very unique weapons and terrific environments 
 and monsters leave little to be desired.
  
  It is a very unnerving atmosphere with great details to lights, shadows and mystic noises in the 
 far, is that simply a metal pipe i here dropping to the floor or what? This is pretty much my reaction 
 to everything, being afraid of shadows indeed any movement or sounds, it's not paranoia if somethings 
 out to get you!
  
  The mouse is somewhat frustratingly slow when in aim mode but I figure it's a matter of getting 
 used to, which is pretty much my only negative opinion of the entire experience playing Dead Space 
 on the PC.
  
  I would recommend this game to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feathers632
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  
  I'm not a fan of 3rd person games. They totally ruin any sense of immersion and of course there 
 are the awful camera views to contend with. I figured I would give this game a try though because 
 of the hype. Graphically it's quite nice to look at. It feels like Doom 3 and from the opening 
 sequence it is clear the game has been inspired by the original Alien movie (you can even hear 
 those Nostromo style radio comms) .
  
  Once the game begins, it all goes downhill rapidly. The mouse movement is used to pan the camera 
 and it has lag. Then your view is obscured by your character taking up a large percentage of screen 
 area to the left. So I found myself walking into boxes because I had to try to pan the camera and 
 steer the character at the same time.
  
  Aliens jump out at you real quick in this game. Ordinarily that would be a good thing but when 
 the control system is this bad, it's bad! There is lag on all controls (key and mouse) and this 
 causes you to press your mouse buttons much harder in order to try and get a response. This game 
 really will destroy your bits!
  
  I guess this pretty much sums up why I hate 3rd person, why I don't play console games and why 
 I deleted this
  game after 15 minutes of play!
  
  No doubt this game will be loved by all the console kiddies out there. You know, the kind of people 
 who play a driving game with external view of the car (I guess they drive like that in real life 
 too?) .
  
  Dead Space is deader than dead.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZwaanME
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  A lot of reviewers have complained about the awkward controls and the third person view point. 
 I haven't had any problems with the controls, but I did use a Xbox 360 compatible controller (Logitech 
 Chillstream) . And that (apparently) makes all the difference. After 30 minutes of playing I could 
 easily walk/run around, look at the environment and dismember monsters at ease. So if you're having 
 problems with the controls, get a gamepad! You'll also be able to use it to play games like Gears 
 of War, Lost Planet, Tombraider Legends, Prince of Persia, etcetera. So it's worth spending 35!
 
  As for the viewpoint, a lot of console based games use this viewpoint and it really grows on you. 
 After a while it didn't feel any different compared to playing a game like Doom3. 
  I'm playing the game at medium difficulty and for me this is just right. Killing monsters isn't 
 extremely difficult, but it's no walk in the park either. The limited inventory space you have 
 forces you to make decisions about what to take with you, what to sell and which items to put in 
 the storage space at the store.
  This game also delivers an experience I missed while playing Doom3. Doom3 started out as a survival 
 horror game, but after a few hours turned into an ordinary shoot them all, with plenty of ammunition 
 and health. It also didn't try to offer game play that was any different from the original. The 
 weapons, level design and monsters felt the same. Many games released after the original Doom have 
 tried and sometimes succeeded to give you new options and abilities. Games like Dark Forces and 
 Blood gave you weapons which had an alternative firing mode. Games like Deus Ex and System Shock 
 gave you weapons you could modify. Games like Half Life 2, Second Sight, Snow Blind gave you the 
 ability to manipulate the environment, enemies and objects with either special weapons or telekinesis. 
 Dead Space offers a lot of those improvements. You don't have a lot of different weapons, but you 
 can upgrade them and make them stronger, faster, quicker to reload, etcetera. You also get the 
 ability to freeze enemies and objects (like jamming doors) and you can grab and throw objects like 
 you could in Half Life 2. The interface is completely integrated in the game and the game doesn't 
 pause while you look at the map or your inventory thus drawing you into the game and giving you 
 a sense of urgency. Because you could be attacked at any moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antiyoupunk138
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  While I was thrown off at first by the controls, which are a bit odd compared to other shooters, 
 in the end I found them to be very useful in creating a cinimatic feel to the whole game. I rarely 
 care at all about the story in a game, but this one actually held my attention all the way to the 
 end. Jumped quite often from good little starts, and found myself completely involved in everything 
 that was going on. If you're a gamer who likes to aim for the head alot, this game is definately 
 for you. Shooting off limbs gets more fun as you go along, and all of the weapons are unique and 
 fun to use. A must have for anyone.
  
  It's absolutely necissary to play this one to the end. The story is excellent.
  
  On the negative 
 side, the whole thing is very linear, and everything in the story is laid out with one outcome. 
 While the story is fantastic, I would've liked to have seen more options at least in the meathods 
 of achieving goals. The puzzles are fairly simple, which isn't always a bad thing. The physics 
 engine also leaves a little to be desired.
  
  All of the negative is hardly noticeable next to the well polished game and mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,3266,0. html
  
  If you had told any self-respecting gamer two years ago that EA would be the creator of several 
 new and innovative IPs, then they probably would have laughed. And we would have too. When Dead 
 Space and Mirror's Edge were announced, we stood to the side, skeptical of EA's ability to critically 
 and commercially stun the gaming world. Well, the first of those titles is out. Dead Space is a 
 third-person action-horror experience that manages to provide a horror experience whose action 
 and story-telling rival the best of the Resident Evil franchise. Sometimes, it just feels good 
 to be wrong...
  
  From the onset, Dead Space tosses you into the game's unabashedly sci-fi universe. It pulls things 
 from a variety of sources, including Star Wars, Firefly, Star Trek, Alien, etc, but manages to 
 combine those elements in such a way that the world doesn't feel unoriginal. You're Isaac Clarke, 
 an engineer sent on a standard mission to repair the communications system of the USG Ishimura, 
 a Planet Cracker-class mining ship. Everything seems fine until you begin exploring the ship and 
 realize that there's no one there to greet you and your crew. All of a sudden, you're separated 
 and thrust into a conflict against a gang of pseudo-zombies named Necromorphs. To further complicate 
 things, it seems that your love interest was assigned to the ship and you have to contend with 
 finding and saving her. The story is a bit cliched, but the execution is well-done and the strong 
 voice-acting helps carry the plot forward.
  
  In contrast to Resident Evil, Isaac doesn't have access to any real weapons. Instead, he must make 
 use of mining tools that he finds all over the ship like plasma welders or buzz saws. These weapons 
 must be used wisely in strategic dismemberment, the game's combat "mechanic." Each Necromorph must 
 be taken down in a variety of ways, essentially making them puzzles that must be solved quickly 
 and effectively if you want to survive. They are terrifyingly strong and intelligent enemies, often 
 feigning death and coming in waves, always leaving you uncertain whether you have truly cleared 
 out an area.
  
  There is a range of different Necromorphs. Most of them are humans with extra appendages and messed 
 up visages. Horribly mutated undead babies also make an appearance, reminiscent of Doom 3's cherubs. 
 The enemies range all the way up to horrifying bosses, who are the catalysts for some pulse-pounding 
 sequences including one where you must fight to free yourself from a tentacle that pulls you ever 
 closer to your death.
  
  When you boot up the game, you'll find one of EA Redwood's most significant design choices: no 
 traditional HUD. Important information is communicated through Isaac's RIG suit and the environment. 
 Health is displayed in a series of segmented bars along Isaac's spine while ammo readouts are projected 
 by your weapon onto a tiny holographic display. Even inventory menus and maps are projected in 
 real-time in front of Isaac without pausing the game. This makes the experience that much more 
 visceral as you have to constantly worry about enemy ambushes even while you're flipping through 
 your inventory.
  
  Your ultimate goal is to escape the ship and save your companion and you get there by traversing 
 the ship and repairing a variety of the Ishimura's systems. The game effectively communicates a 
 sense of isolation and hopelessness as you come across crewmembers driven insane by past events. 
 Taking a page out of Bioshock's book, Dead Space offers up a variety of audio logs that chronicle 
 the crew's last moments. These are accompanied by some impressive video logs and journal entries 
 that flush the game out far beyond that of the status quo found in other horror games.
  
  After a while, you'll gain the ability to use stasis and kinesis, which serve in a variety of combat 
 and puzzle-solving applications. In particular, stasis can tip a fight in your favor, allowing 
 you to freeze several Necromorphs in an oncoming horde.
  
  The game also mixes up the standard corridor shooting with some impressive Zero-G sequences. Isaac's 
 magnetic boots allow him to launch himself at and attach to a variety of ceilings and walls, all 
 while dodging and outwitting Necromorphs. It's pretty stunning to finish one off and watch their 
 blood and body parts float off realistically in alternative directions.
  
  Befitting of Dead Space's rumored origins as a System Shock sequel, you'll find some light RPG 
 elements within the game. You'll be able to purchase upgrades for your armor, health, weapons, 
 and ammunition throughout the game. Weapons and armor can be upgraded through the use of nanotech 
 benches scattered throughout the ship that allow you to attach parts to a system of nodes found 
 on each item. These nodes allow you to add clip and damage upgrades, to improve your armor, etc. 
 Inventory space is also limited, so you'll also have to contend with managing your health packs 
 and ammo, adding another variable of uncertainty to an already-unsettling experience.
  
  Dead Space's proprietary engine is surprisingly strong in communicating both the technical and 
 artistic aspects needed to create a proper sci-fi horror experience. While character models and 
 particle effects have been neglected and consequently look out-dated, it is apparent that a lot 
 of EA Redwood's focus went into the game's incredibly immersive lighting and shadowing. Dead Space 
 isn't the best-looking game ever made, but remains quite a looker.
  Dead Space's strong suit is easily its sound design. Even though you won't always see them, the 
 Necromorphs are a constant presence in the ship, creating distant and not-so-distant sound effects 
 as they go around finishing the crew and further mutating into even more hideous forms. Environmental 
 effects such as hissing steam and the slithering of enemies as they travel through the ship's air 
 duct system will keep you on your toes. Music is minimalistic, but the Ishimura itself provides 
 a soundscape that can hardly be rivaled in the modern gaming industry.
  
  A remarkable first installment in what can become one of the premiere action/horror gaming franchises, 
 Dead Space is a game that should be experienced and heard to believe. It'll satisfy both sci-fi 
 nuts and those looking to get terrified enough to be unable to sleep after experiencing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vomexx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  I've never understood the appeal of scary games -- or movies, for that matter. Considering Dead 
 Space is marketed as a horror game -- "a bloodcurdling interactive horror experience," according 
 to the official site -- I found myself strangely comfortable with it at first. Then I realized 
 something: It isn't really a horror game. Or at least, not a very scary one.
  It's clear that Dead Space wants to be scary. It has the right trappings, from the lost-on-a-spaceship 
 concept to the limited health and ammo pickups, the audio and video logs you find (which feature 
 allies screaming at you) , and the blood-splattered environments and occasional disgusting enemies. 
 But it seems like -- in a few too many cases -- the designers chose to hold you by the hand and 
 make something look cool instead of making it look scary. When you're upgrading your suit (which 
 itself makes you look more like a game's boss than an everyman) , using Stasis to freeze enemies, 
 picking up explosive canisters with the equivalent of a gravity gun, and purchasing weapons that 
 dissect enemies in different ways, you don't exactly feel vulnerable. Mix in more than enough checkpoints 
 and the ability to draw a line in front of you telling you where to go (with the touch of a button) 
 and it's easy to settle in and let the training wheels take care of you.
  
  Assuming you weren't misled into expecting something along the lines of Silent Hill, however, I 
 don't think you'll be disappointed. Dead Space tries to have things both ways by being scary and 
 offering plenty of gunplay, but it's well crafted throughout. I remember debates about whether 
 Resident Evil 4 was as scary as previous Resident Evil games, and the consensus was that no, it 
 wasn't -- but it was better designed, so who cares?
  
  A better description of Dead Space is "a limited-ammo shooter." You spend a lot of time moving 
 through corridors and taking out a few enemies at a time, but the game gets difficult (and really 
 good) when it locks you in a room and forces you to kill everything before moving on. When that 
 happens, you have to use strategies such as freezing a few enemies at a time... and then punching 
 their frozen bodies just to save ammo.
  
  The much-hyped dismemberment system plays into these strategies as well, since you can shoot off 
 enemy legs to slow them to a (literal) crawl or slice off an explosive flesh bag attached to an 
 enemy's arm and then use the gravity gun to fire the bag at a whole batch of foes. It works incredibly 
 well when mixed with the limited-ammo concept, as you can almost always find a way to kill an enemy 
 more effectively than just firing quickly -- which helps keep the combat interesting during the 
 routine corridor sections of the game.
  
  Despite the combat, I still found a few too many similar-looking corridors -- the game is long 
 enough (I clocked in at about 12 hours) , but it's pretty much the same thing all the way through, 
 with a few minor minigames, puzzles, and zero-gravity segments (where you go outside the ship and 
 jump from floor to ceiling with gravity boots) sprinkled in. Find a key, unlock a door, move on 
 to the next locked door... then enter a room where you have to kill a bunch of enemies and fight 
 an occasional boss.
  
  Dead Space is at its best when it does things unique to the third-person shooter genre; the aforementioned 
 zero-gravity sequences (which feature fantastic audio effects that make you feel like you're in 
 outer space) , the storytelling method (events unfold via hovering video log monitors that you watch 
 as you walk around, rather than through traditional cut-scenes -- and it's much more impressive 
 than the events themselves) , and the dismemberment system all come to mind. Apart from the lack 
 of variety within them, the characters and environments are some of the best looking on the market, 
 with blood splatters and rusted metals all over the place.
  
  Dead Space ultimately feels like an incredibly polished and varied 6-hour game stretched out to 
 make it twice that long. While I felt like I was repeating the same objectives a few too many times, 
 the combat held up so well that I didn't even mind... too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artman100
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  I can't do much of a review because I have only spent about two hours on it and all that time struggling 
 with a terrible mouse control. It doesn't help that I'm left handed and cannot remap the arrow 
 cursor keys for movement (I used the less satisfying home, end, etc combo) .
  
  I found it nigh ion impossible to get a reasonable mouse reaction even after playing with the separate 
 mouse accelerator I have.
  
  Considering the fact you have to be accurate about where you aim to kill these monsters I just 
 cannot understand how such a flawed aiming design hasn't been picked on more vociferously.
  
  I also find it annoying that you cannot have the hero turn with the view so when your being 
 attacked from two sides it doesn't become a clusterf***k of key and mouse manipulation as you move 
 between the attackers.
  
  Aside from the controls it all looks nice and atmospheric but I was spending too much time in controller 
 frustration to see if the designers had put more effort into gameplay and controls.
  
  I have lost my money on this one as I can't take it back but I will be giving it to a friend who 
 was saving up for this 'product' so he can save his money and hopefully get more out of it.
  
  Last time I play an EA game before I try.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkaran
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  First of all I just wanna shout out to all the downraters having problems with the controls, Stop 
 rating a whole fricking game based on the controls! And still the controls are good, you're just 
 to lazy to get to learn them. I've played this game alot and I love it, the controls aren't bad 
 at all, they are just different. Stop downrating something because it's no the usual no-brains-shooter!.
 
  
  The game is awesome, it's really innovative with tons of new unique features put into the game 
 which makes the gameplay feel fun and challenging.
  The graphic looks great and I'm able to max out the settings with a pretty low-end computer setup 
 and it still looks great and plays great.
  The over-the-shoulder view is just something you have to get used to, it's actually really good 
 and open up lots of new possibilities compared to the first-person view.
  
  The story is good BUT the fact that your character don't have a voice really makes it feel less 
 real. There is actually a way to make a story great AND to let your character have a voice. A great 
 example of this is Devil May Cry 4.
  The audio/voice acting is really good and makes it feel even more real and immense! (Compared to 
 the Audio/Voice acting in Far Cry 2 this is godlike, but which game isn't in comparison to FC2?)
 
  
  I'd like to rate this game 15 out of 10 just because it's so innovative and finally brings us the 
 players some new unique features. It's not a lame FPS copy like Far Cry 2 or any other FPS out 
 there.
  This game feels unique and it really stands out from the rest, if you bored of all the wannabe 
 games out there Dead Space is something for you!
  Well everyone should try Dead Space and atleast spend a few hours in there to get used to the controls.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggmnewhart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  I like the game play. I am through the 1st level and find it a little slow in action, but enough 
 to keep me playing. I like the "puzzles" and the "where the heck amd I at?" feature. Graphics are 
 great. I am also not finding enough health or nodes so far. I did not figure out I could smash 
 the lit up boxes until the second level so I probably lost some cash or items in that process. 
 The book that comes with it does not talk enough about "looking" for these things.
  
  The controls are a bit to be desired. I do not like the movement when you have your weapon down. 
 You can't spin your person around without moving forward. I tend to stay in the aim mode just so 
 I can move easier through the levels. I don't like the fact you can't pull up your inventory or 
 map while in aim mode either.
  
  The mouse is way too sensitive. I turned it all the way down and am still having trouble spinning 
 around, aiming and shooting. Read some of the other posts!
  
  I will keep playing and then try it in harder modes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  After about a week of cooling down my frustration and reading tips and tricks on how to fix the 
 controls, I finally sat down with the controls and configured them more, and for reference here's 
 my settings with my rig.
  
  Mouse: Microsoft Sidewinder
  Mouse DPI Setting: 400 (Default is lowest button)
  Vsync: ON
  Sensitivity: FULL
  
  With 
 this everything is smooth and proportionately responsive, and aiming works much better. I've read 
 about lots of people having to turn off Vsync, but that actually only hurt my controls. Maybe it's 
 just with the Sidewinder mouse, but this has really worked for me, now onto a fresh review of the 
 game!
  
  Now that the controls are (mostly) out of the way, I can begin to enjoy this game, and it's really 
 great! There is a lot of blood when you dismember monsters, but the blood just disappears. It probably 
 has to do with the limitations of consoles.
  
  Gameplay is fantastic. Using stasis and kinesis are always fun and bring a unique element to the 
 dismemberment combat. Sometimes you have to retrace your steps, and, like in some games in the 
 past, things haven't changed. In here, things do change. Things happen while you are away from 
 an area; bodies are moved, lights flicker or go out, and other environment changes. Makes you feel 
 like you aren't retracing your steps, but still entering new areas.
  
  Sound is great, I'm always looking over my shoulder for random sounds, and when the monsters walk 
 on the ceiling directly over me, it gives me chills. Some of the sounds don't work though, like 
 sometimes sounds don't "move". Like I hear a loud bang on the right, but I turn to the right and 
 it still sounds like it's coming from the right. I keep turning all around and it's still coming 
 from the right, so some issues there, it doesn't happen all the time, but enough to notice.
  
  Graphics are fantastic, there is a big different with Vsync on/off, this game was meant for 
 it to be on. Lights are nice and bright and shadows and darkness are appropriate. Ran perfect on 
 my Q6600, HD4850 everything on high, no hiccups. My first experience with zero-g and space was 
 awesome, it's quite the sight.
  
  I still don't like the camera, it's sort of like a half-third-person perspective, I still feel 
 like my left side is exposed and turning is still sluggish. The camera was very unnecessary. When 
 I can look down the center of a hallway, my character is bumping the left wall, but if he's walking 
 down the center of the hallway, the camera get's caught up on things on the right. It works great 
 if you want to turn left, you can see things before your character gets there, but if you want 
 to turn right, you are blinded while your character walks into the hallway.
  
  Controls: Every knows about the controls, My first review was a 6.0; based solely on my first impression 
 with the game and the horrid controls. There is a sweet spot, and it's unique for everyone's system. 
 TRUST ME, this is a game you want to play, take the time and get the controls working for you, 
 you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VisMajorX
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  If you say that you played this game and claim that you were never scared, you are lieing about 
 having played it. I believe that a new rating will have to be developed because of this title cautioning 
 heart patients and pregnant women about playing it.
  
  I watched the film first before playing the game, and I was not impressed at all with it. I did 
 not feel I was going to enjoy the game. Then another strike against it appeared quickly when I 
 found I could not bind my movement keys the way I bind my movement keys for every game I play (first 
 or third person) . I found that the keypad that my right hand occupies to move my character around 
 just like the W, S, A and D keys the gaming industry at some point adopted as a standard had been 
 restricted from being used for anything but manipulation of the typical 'inventory and map' screen 
 that all of the 3rd person type games have to some extent or another. To do this in this day and 
 age is inexcusable. Never mind completely disallowing the player from choosing how he wants to 
 control his inventory, but to restrict a left handed individual from using the keypad for basic 
 control as any game company should know by now that its what we do is just silly on top of being 
 annoying and inconvenient. If this game had been anything less than the masterpiece it is, I would 
 not for one additional minute let it occupy my time because I take how I control my actions in 
 gameplay very seriously. I hope it will be soon resolved by a patch so that I may play the second 
 half of this title much better than I have so far played the first half of it.
  
  I'm sure the first time you jumped was when you did the same as myself; walking in to a room, weapon 
 pointed across the open space and back to the wall in order to prevent attack from sight unseen 
 only then you find out that they come out of the walls. After that you believe yourself to be braced 
 against any further scares because you have mastered the odd but effective weapons (an act of pure 
 design and creation genious by the developers) and your ability to put in to slow motion any horror 
 that is bareing down on you so that you may leasurely deal with removing its important bits, one 
 at a time until all that remains is a small mess resembling the evil which had intended to turn 
 you in to one of them minus the bits you've removed in order to make it much more harmless. You 
 think you're bad, yet it is still so early in the game and you believe that the rest of this will 
 be old hat. Until they get you again, and for the rest of the time you spend aboard the ship, you 
 spend it moving very methodicly through it, knowing full well that they attack only when your guard 
 is down or when it is very inconvenient for them to do so.
  
  Besides the ever present fear aspect, this game contains features not ever before presented so 
 well in a game of its type, and they make sense to myself although they've recieved critisism from 
 others for breaking the fourth wall of realisim. For example the device that shows you the best 
 possible path towards your next goal which stops you from walking unintentionally in the wrong 
 direction and possibly back to the begining of the game. Why wouldn't a rescue team have a heads 
 up map of the entire ship they are taking part in rescuing? In fact I beleive this is being developed 
 for firefighters right now. Some have said the guns don't work for them, but I believe the idea 
 of having to use what you have available to you, in this case mining tools as weapons perfectly 
 works within the story, and I'll add that the concept of having to aim at specific parts of the 
 enemy (other than the usual 'head shot' we're so familar with in every other game ever made) to 
 take it apart and make it harmless is again creative genious.
  
  Fighting in zero gravity with magnetic boots has been tried to one degree or another in some previous 
 titles whos names I've forgotten because they were forgettable but Dead Space pulls it off perfectly. 
 The lack of abilty to hear the scream from the creature about to attack when in a zero gravity 
 and no oxygen area or the blast of your weapon and only the sounds of your own footsteps and heartbeat 
 is again, genious. They have adapted a lot of ideas from many games and of course made them not 
 only their own but in most cases made them finally work properly. 
  
  Dead Space has a lot of positive aspects that you can read about in any review but I want to say 
 something that I haven't noticed anyone say yet and that is that these developers did not commit 
 the crime we have been seeing repeatedly made for the last couple years of not putting polish on 
 any aspect of their product that could use it. Rushing the title to the shelf. Not going that little 
 extra distence to make not simply a product but a work of art.
  
  Dead Space is indeed a work of art. A frightening one, and I can't wait until they fix the control 
 issues so that I can enjoy it as much as I would have had they not made that one major error. Unlike 
 many of the games of its genre it has a high replay value as well because there are many ways to 
 accomplish each task. It is certainly a game to buy, specially if you are right handed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: catchies
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  There has been a lot of negatives about the controls... I agree they are a little screwy, but give 
 it an honest effort and you get used to it. The aiming is supposed to be slow, later you'll level 
 up and it will target faster. In the setting don't change the mouse sensitivity or it will get 
 choppy... what I recommend is to use the Razer Lachesis gaming mouse, not only is it the most 
 sensitive mouse available but it has extra buttons that are very helpful in this game.
  
  This is truly a ground breaking game... 
  Texture mapping A+
  Character skeletons A+
  Immersion 
 A+
  Sound Quality A+
  Controls B+
  Story B+ 
  SPOOKY AS HELL A++
  
  The only thing I can mention that hasn't already been said or that you can get from the trailers...
 
  
  When creating an immersing atmosphere a lot of games neglect the audio. Not with Dead Space. The 
 background noise is the spookiest aspect of this game. The clanging of a pipe, the footsteps of 
 aliens around you, the whispering of voices, all keep you on guard. Each of the aliens have a unique 
 scream, which get more terrifying as you go through the Chapters.
  
  I don't recommend a lot of games, but this one you should't be without. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipervvviii
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I hit Best Buy, bought the game with an ominous "Oh, Dead Space. Good luck." From the clerk, plugged 
 it in to my PC and braced to enter adrenaline world.
  
  First of all, the mouse is a bit jumpy, you might want to hit the options menu to scale down the 
 sensitivity. Controls on the keyboard in my opinion are just fine, then yet again I spent $50 bucks 
 on my mouse and another $50 on my keyboard.
  
  Now for the scare factor. The game has it's fills of those kind of cheap horror movie jump-out-at-you 
 kind of moments, but the scariest thing I experienced was having my back to a wall, watching an 
 entrance where one of those mosters was supposed to come through, my shadow cast by a light in 
 a vent behind me. Next thing I knew, a shadow rose behind me, and my stomach went cold. This game 
 definitely forces you into survival mode, I have to take a break ever hour and a half to let the 
 adrenaline wear off.
  
  The RPG elements in this game are refreshing, and more often than not you feel like you're living 
 medpack drop to medpack drop trying to get to the nearest save point or store to refill on precious 
 ammunition.
  
  Having no HUD is quite a plus in my opinion, and the real time map reading and inventory checking 
 teaches you to get your back to a wall real quick.
  
  Overall, if you're a survival-horror fan and know you can do better than those dinks in the movies, 
 grab a copy of Dead Space. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomadski69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  
  
  Being the cynical old man that I am, i'd completely forgotten that games can occasionally surprise 
 you in their quality. We live in an information rich age where everyman kid and his dog knows everything 
 about a game before release, to the point that very little surprises can remain, and only dissapointment 
 from the hype is certain.
  
  EA really pulled one on me with this one - I'd heard about it, seen the previews and watched the 
 trailers. But when I actually played the game I was blown away by the quality in the title. Graphics 
 are great, and optimised waaaay above most current releases (so all those people posting Can I 
 Run It..... for 99% of you - YES! REALLY WELL!) and i'm on an old AGP system with an AMD cpu screaming 
 for an upgrade in most titles.
  
  Atmosphere is fantastic, aided by some incredible sound. People seem to be overlooking this aspect 
 a lot in games, but in a survival horror title its absolutely essential and IMO this game has the 
 best sound ive heard in a game for a very, very long time. I actually jumped at one early point 
 in the first level, something FEAR never managed to do for me.
  
  Perhaps its the deep space setting so well executed right from the beginning, but I really do feel 
 the tension while exploring the levels here, EA have managed to ge that balance right between "enjoying 
 it" and "fearing it", fun and trepidation mixed together seemlessly.
  
  And for once its a title which hasnt been hyped beyond belief, I only hope this doesnt become one 
 of those unseen gems for many people, for me its right up there with the very best AAA titles released 
 on any platform this year. Theres certainly nothing else to comapre to this game on the "survival 
 horror" front this year, perhaps Left For Dead will take that mantle but who knows.
  
  So EA, for what its worth, theres a little KB or two on the internet that wants to applaud you 
 (did i just say that?) for making a supremely atmospheric, and fun game, that noone should miss 
 out on, unless you really hate shadows....
  
  *steps back slowly into game*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Succumbus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is good. I'm going to start out with that. It has decently well made gameplay, the atmosphere 
 is creepy and has an amazing feel to it at first. You start out as the main engineer going to fix 
 a seemingly broken down space ship (theres no real reason at first why contact was lost and it's 
 systems are down) . The story is good at unfolding itself, the voice acting is decent as well. There 
 are some moments in the game where the audio logs you find scattered around seem a bit cheesy, 
 but the main characters do a great job.
  
  As you progress you collect money, ammo, schematics, parts and others misc. objects along the way. 
 This gives the game a little more value in parts to where the story seems repetitive or slow. The 
 story is not bad at all, by the way, just sometimes it seems like you backtrack all the way to 
 where you started only to find more enemies in different areas.
  
  On to my next point, the combat. It's a great reflection of sitting back a little bit and concentrating 
 on where your shooting, not just seeing the freakin enemy and opening fire on the widest part of 
 it. Strategic Dismemberment is a great twist, plus it really seems real, you shoot an enemy's leg, 
 it eventually comes off (on harder enemies for some reason it takes a couple shots with an un-upgraded 
 plasma cutter) . 
  
  You start out with basic suit, a few minutes in the beginning you find your first weapon and start 
 to advance in the game with your new equipment. As you progress you have the opportunity to buy 
 new things from stores randomly around and build your weapons and suit up for more ammo, better 
 damage, more health, more air storage for outside (in space) , etc... This is a great additive to 
 the game, again, it gives it a little more to do than just traveling from one point to the other 
 and blowing your way through enemies.
  
  The game has some cons though. It seems like the flamethrower eats up the framerate a little bit, 
 so when you're blowing out fire towards four charging enemies you can lose where your going or 
 become disoriented with the drop of fps. The ship is cool, artistically it was excellently done. 
 Sometimes the same hallways or same scratch patterns on elevator doors makes it seem a little stale 
 after a while. Zero gravity is awesome, no doubt, sometimes when you make a jump though the camera 
 gets wack and annoying, but that's just a minor thing. It still handles amazingly well for a new 
 concept. 
  
  The gore in this game is awesome as well, it just makes the game so much more intense. You hear 
 everything you blow to shreds too. Liquids oozing and squirting everywhere from your enemies wounds 
 or you smashing in their skull with your magnetic boots makes it all a memorable experience.
  
  This game has done an amazing job, and I give it a one and a half thumbs up. It's not revolutionary, 
 but it certainly deserves credit for being excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnogden88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review, and I hope I do this game justice. This is by far the best horror game 
 I've played, yes surpassing Resident Evil and Doom 3. Great graphics, not a horrible port (resident 
 evil) , and scares the crap out of me. It's nice when you have to conserve ammo, instead of getting 
 loads of it... adds to the realism and horror of the game. Here's some things I thought about the 
 game, and at the end is HOW YOU TWEAK THE CONTROLS!!
  
  PROS
  
  - Storyline is really good. Sucks you into it. Trust me, I haven't even finished the game and I'm 
 stuck on the story.
  - Gameplay is good. Scares the crap out of me even when I know what's coming. Only thing repetitive 
 is the monsters. But think of other shooters... the only thing you get to kill is Nazis.
  - Monsters are fairly original. I'm fascinated by the crawling on walls thing. Oh, and the bat 
 looking creature. 
  - Music/noises. This is the atmosphere, this is what makes the game scary. Without the music, I 
 would just be popping around corners not worrying bout nothing... but the music scares me.
  - GRAPHICS are amazing, very advanced. Watching videos here on gamespot just doesn't do justice... when 
 your in big rooms, or in space, look around a little bit, and appreciate. They did really good 
 with the engine.
  - Gun selection is good, and the whole "store and buying stuff" idea seemed lame at first, but 
 it makes the game more interesting. You realize that you've gotta conserve ammunition... Stomping 
 is good, although the AI is pretty smart. They'll scoot back if you try to stomp them, it's really 
 annoying.
  - Powers, like time-rendering and levitation are really useful, really useful. The controls make 
 them really easy to use.
  - Scenes where you are killed are pretty interesting.
  - Holograms are really cool, and helpful when gathering ammo.
  - ZERO G IS SO FUN!!!
  - Lack 
 of cutscenes. I'm on chapter 6, and I've only seen 2 cutscenes so far. Yet story is still awesome...
 
  - NO LOADING SCREENS!!!!! Except for when you first load the game. BUT STILL!!!!
  
  CONS
  
  - No multiplayer... I think... : (
  - It sucks being scared, but it's also cool.
 
  - In zero g, the camera angle kinda messes with you, but you just gotta adapt to it.
  
  
  FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO NEED HELP WITH THE CONTROLS!!!
  
  When you first come to menu, select 
 options, turn off V-SYNC, that'll get rid of the mouse lag. Now, when you go into the game, the 
 aiming will be really slow, and we can't have that or else monsters gonna be eatin' us alive. Go 
 to options again, Control Settings, and set the sensitivity all the way up. The moust will go crazy 
 fast in the menus, but during the game, it's perfect. 
  
  Sweet. Enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftstrike5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start with the most well-known issue with this game. 
  
  Controls- 
  Are fine. Disabling Vsync removes the "floaty" feeling that everyone complains about. This game 
 wasn't meant to me a FPS/Quake style game where you could jump head shot everything. Issac is an 
 inexperienced engineer wielding extremely heavy mining tools. (If you look through the reviews, 
 this is everybody's main reason for lowering the score. Give it a few minutes and you'll realize 
 it's fine) .
  
  Graphics-
  Overall are very good. Fire doesn't look that realistic and there are several smaller objects that 
 are rendered in 2d (worms, tentacles that appear after dismembering a creature, asteroids, etc.) . 
 They don't detract from the overall graphics at all because they're hardily noticeable. 
  
  Sound-
  Best Sound in a game since the beginning of time. The game seems to have the ability 
 to detect when a enemy enters your line-of-sight. When it does, it sets off a variety of sounds 
 causing you to jump. One moment, I was concentrated on an enemy and after killing it, I turn around. 
 Standing right behind me was another one. I nearly shat myself when the sound when off and it attacked. 
 There's always something scurrying around in the background noise. Half the time you'll turn around 
 to find that there's nothing there. 
  
  Gameplay-
  Atmosphere is great. There were several moments where I just quit playing the game instead of going 
 down a dark hallway. Dismembering really doesn't get boring and there are enough enemies that it's 
 not repetitive. Enemies "evolve" as the game progress and become quicker and stronger. There are 
 hardily any repeats of scare tactics. The only one that is repeated often is the "faking" dead 
 necro, but you'll be surprised when they're hidden among enemies you've already killed. There's 
 minimal backtracking, but all you'll be focused on is not dieing. 
  
  I originally compared this game to System Shock 2. It's a lot like System Shock 2, but you can 
 tell the developers pulled from a variety of games. I'd say that Dead Space carries the atmosphere 
 better. In SS2, you lost it as soon as you upgraded your weapons and became the baddest thing on 
 the ship. In Dead Space, you will never have that feeling of superiority over the enemy. If you 
 fool around, you'll find your arm missing when you turn the corner. 
  
  
  Complaints-
  
  2d Graphics in some places (opening scene has some)
  
  Too Easy, even on the hardest settings. 
 PC controls are far superior in reaction time and accuracy then analog joysticks. 
  
  A bit on the short side (longer than most linear single player games though. , but you can replay 
 and upgrade more weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  WARNING: Contains spoilers.
  
  
  First off, I want to know how this game didn't get banned down here in the rating foresaken land 
 of Australia. How hipocritic is it, that a game with this much swearing, decapitations and gore 
 doesn't get banned, but others with much less DO. Even a scene near the end where you watch somebody 
 inject something into their arm, killing themselves. I dont care if the things you just happen 
 to be tearing apart are mutant things reminiscent of the Flood combined with the Tyranids (even 
 controled by a Zerg "hive mind") , why is it not banned when lesser things are?
  
  Don't get me wrong, I'm not opposed in any way to anything in this game (hense why I'm giving it 
 a good rating) , but come on!
  
  ANYWAY, that little rant over, lets get to it.
  
  This game is the first actual shoulder-cam shooter I've played, and I liked it. I felt like it 
 gave it a more "edgy" feel in the way being an FPS wouldnt have been able to do. Something about 
 hanging over Isaac's back like a creature crawling along the roof following him gave the game an 
 even greater sense of environment and chills in my oppinion.
  
  Like I said in my rant back there, I'm a little iffy on the originality of the creatures. Granted, 
 you cant be completely original all the time, but I feel like you can be more original that taking 
 the two biologically engineered killing machines (Flood and Tyranids) from two of the largest sci-fi 
 game followings (Halo and Warhammer 40K) in the world and mesh them together. Even if you DO want 
 to do that, you could at LEAST change the name of the telepathic overlord to something OTHER than 
 the "hive mind" (Zerg) . There are only so many coincidences that you can accidently make, and 3 
 "coincidences" from 3 of the most popular sci-fi things on the planet is perhaps going a little 
 too far.
  
  The game has an interesting take on killing things though. In fact, I'm not even sure if you actually 
 KILL anything in the game at all. The idea is to rip off the limbs of your enemies, which made 
 me think "is this thing actually dead, or is it just a living torso now that I've ripped off it's 
 head, arms, and legs?" Some of the weapons confused me in this respect also. Why is it that you 
 can get a gun that shoots a single thing, like a harpoon gun sort of idea, when the point is to 
 tear off limbs? Especially considering the first gun you get (which is also free) , PERFECTLY achieves 
 the purpose by being a purpose build "tear the limbs of creatures" gun, WITH the ability to fire 
 either vertical or horizontal shots, making it even MORE perfectly suited to the role. I found, 
 that of the 7 or 8 guns actually in the game, I used 2. The perfect plasma cutter, and the slightly 
 less useful but faster firing assault rifle. Though, like an idiot, I bought all of the other weapons. 
 I don't know why, when the aim is to remove limbs, there is a flamethrower, but I digress.
  
  The game was really well set out. In a day and age where grind missions and "go here to do 
 this to get this to go there" missions, I wont go into any detail or specifics, but every mission 
 you go on feels like it actually does have a point in maintaining your survival.
  
  The schematic idea is a good one, I think. You can only buy new things from the store if you find 
 the scematics on how to make them then upload them to the system. That makes a lot more sense than, 
 on a ship with no surviving crue inhabited by mutants that want to kill you, the store magically 
 getting new stock items since you got back from the crew deck.
  
  Something else I noticed that I really liked was the fact that the storage boxes throughout the 
 levels are not all open at once. You will go into a room with 6 containers the first time you do 
 a level and only 3 will be open. The next time you come in on a later chapter, the other 3 are 
 open. This, I feel, helps you from wasting things, and keeps a little hope alive for the future. 
 If you were able to go through and collect everything the first time, what would happen when you 
 came back to this section of the ship and youve already harvested all the ammo? You DIE, thats 
 what happens.
  
  Environmentally, the game is fantastic. I cant think of any way they could have made the game more 
 atmosphericly horror or space. The inclusion of zero-g and vacuum areas was great, especially the 
 fact that while in a vacuum, all you can hear is a dull thud when you fire your gun, since sound 
 doesn't travel within a vacuum. Zero-g areas are terrifying to be in, because you have NO idea 
 where an enemy is going to come from, and that is multiplied when in a zero-g vacuum, because you 
 cant even HEAR the enemies for a hint. A silent killing machine flying at you from directly above 
 that you didn't see is enough to make you at least jump, if not wet your pants and scream like 
 a little girl.
  
  Walking around the thin halls and passages of a spaceship definately is one way of making a horror 
 theme solid, and it is done quite often, but Dead Space does this without over-doing it, or making 
 it seem like you only walk slightly different versions of the same hallway for the (approx.) 10 
 hours of gameplay. This is magnified by the fact that the creatures can come out of the roof, floor, 
 vents, or any other manner of ways in order to kill you.
  
  The environments themselves are beautifully detailed, right down to the death notes written in 
 blood to their loved ones or praising God. The darkness, flickering lights, quarantine areas, the 
 biomass, and everything else all synchs together perfecty to create a completely believable and 
 immersive environment.
  
  One REALLY annoying thing is the fact that chunks of enemies seem to have a habit of getting stuck 
 in the way of things that need to be moved with the "kinesis module", and one thing about that 
 module is the fact that if your targetting one thing, and there is ANYTHING else in the general 
 area that the kinesis module can grab onto, it inevitably grabs that instead of the target. Along 
 with that, the dead body physics can be incredibly irritating. In a hallway of dead bodies, they 
 all seem to think it would be fun to accompany you to the end of the hallway, getting stuck on 
 your body and being in the way.
  
  Characters are believable, the woman who helps you is a b****, you get drawn into the relationship 
 between Isaac and Nichole, and the others you meet are believable and work so well in their roles.
 
  
  All in all, Dead Space is a very good game, with some disappointing concept aspects and some physics 
 that leaves a bit to be disired. All up, I give it an 8.5.
  
  Edits: I just remembered that the Zerg are controlled by the OVERmind, and Tyranids are controlled 
 by the hive mind, my bad.
  
  I also forgot to mention the inability to turn off tutorial hints and the inability to change difficulty 
 levels in-game. I earned so much stuff, had so many upgrades, and UNLOCKED things by finishing 
 the game, but then had to either start a new game without any of that on a higher difficulty, or 
 play through on the same difficulty again. Not game breaking issues, but irritating and inconvenient 
 ones, to say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weewalio
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I've barely scratched the surface of Deadspace (in terms of time played) , and yet I'm already suffering 
 from Buyer's Remorse. Had I known that such a stunning looking and sounding game was going to be 
 saddled with console-style controls of this type, I wouldn't have bought it. Had I known that the 
 camera was going to be this sluggish and fickle, I would not have bought it.
  
  The camera can almost be forgiven. Once you realize that Deadspace is a survival horror game close 
 in theme to Resident Evil than, say, Doom or Bioshock -in other words, a third-person survival 
 horror game and most definitely NOT a first-pershon shooter- then and only then can the camera 
 angles and viewpoints be forgiven and lived with.
  
  But the control scheme is simply unforgivable. It is a direct, literal, unmodified copy of the 
 console versions' sloppy-for-the-PC controller system, and mouse control is simply ridiculous and 
 unnatural. 
  
  That's my only gripe, really, but I can't overstate how serious it is. The graphics, story, sound, 
 and voice acting in Deadspace are polished, high-quality stuff. But the controls which are meant 
 to let you participate in those things is beyond horrible. 
  
  I'm sure they work fine on the consoles, but the PC version of this title is to be avoided at all 
 costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerken
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This game has a good graphics and yet the environment of the area is very suit the story plot and 
 so as the background music. Actually the whole game will be prefect if they just re-configuration 
 the control because the mouse control is really bad. What i mean is that when i was aiming at the 
 monster is going really slow to move the cursor and by the time i have already cut 1 parts of its 
 limb ( nodded u have to shoot the monster to pieces in order to kill it) , it has already near u 
 and i can tell u that better don't use the melee attack because it won't cause more damage and 
 second sometimes the monster will hit u back more faster than u trying hit it again. And i always 
 get order around like ask me go here and there, check this and that item. WTF!!! Can't i just go 
 investigate or explore the place myself?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diebye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Its a good game overall, might have been a tad bit better if the interface had been build specifically 
 for the PC, but its not enough of a problem to hurt the game too much, you don't have to go digging 
 through your inventory or maps in the middle of a fight. All your weapons are bound 1-4 health 
 is q and the mouse and wasd keys do the rest.
  
  Biggest problem i had was when i started playing V-sync was defaulted to on so my mouse lagged 
 all the time except while aiming. But after i turned it off the lagginess went away and my load 
 screens went from about a minute to under 10 seconds.
  
  Its worth getting this game, it looks very good on a PC with a higher resolution setting, I'm running 
 it at 1440x900 and its beautiful. Sure the aliens in space genre has been done before but not to 
 the point where it keeps you on edge like this game. The shadows, music, and ambient noises keep 
 you constantly on your toes, and the in game HUD and on weapon ammo counters keep you so immersed 
 in the game that you might not realize how long you've been playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Byrd910
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  This game sort of came out of nowhere, it's an EA title, which, at least to me, usually says that 
 it's a good game but not too polished. This game therefore surprised me, because it's a very high-quality 
 game.
  
  This is definitely a horror game. From the ambient music, which is great, down to the look of the 
 spaceship, you can really get into the game, which adds to the horror experience. This game also 
 has some truly unexpected things that happen, and the boss battles are amazing.
  
  However, for the PC version, you really need to have an xbox 360 controller. The game automatically 
 switches over the controls when you plug it in, no keyboard mapping to do, and even the instructions 
 inside the game switch to the Xbox 360 controller layout. If you try to play without the xbox controller... 
 it's simply really hard. It was rated the second worst PC controller scheme for a reason. To jump 
 in zero G you have to hit both left and right CTRL? How are you going to do that and yet still 
 shoot zombies with your mouse?
  
  All in all, the PC version is just as good as the consoles (if your computer can handle it, like 
 mine, it looks even better) but if you don't have an Xbox 360 controller, I would suggest buying 
 it on the console instead, because the control scheme is simply horrible for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiny_Elvis
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are gorgeous and the gameplay looks to be pretty cool. The way the HUD works sort 
 of unique adds to the tension. I'm not sure I like the whole 'cut off the limbs' idea though, it's 
 sort of gimmicky to me, but I can probably live with it.
  
  However the camera is wonky; it feels like you are watching through a telephoto lens from about 
 30 feet behind. It feels very unnatural. Also the mouse aiming is terrible. You have to disable 
 vsync to get it to be playable at all. Even then it is still hard to manage. When you press "AIM" 
 (rmb) the mouse suddenly slows down. It is nearly impossible to move it fast enough. This is very 
 bad in close quarter fighting since the game requires you to cut off the limbs of the baddies attacking 
 you. I hope the camera and mouse are addressed in a patch.
  
  One other problem: the game did not at all recognize my Logitech wireless rumblepad II.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vargre666
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I was REALLY looking forward to this game for the PC, and finally the 21st came, I picked it up, 
 installed, and waited for it to get dark. All ive heard is how terrifying the game is. How truly 
 scary it is, so I wanted to get as much bang for my buck as possible. Lights off, headphones jacked, 
 I started out my quest to find what went wrong on the USG Ishimura (or whatever its called.) 
 
  
  Ive read about how difficult the game is, so I decided id play it safe and start on the "normal" 
 setting. It was far too easy, so I bumped it up to "high" and started getting the play id read 
 about, where you need to really concentrate on ammo conservation, the 'morphs run through heating 
 ducts and what not (AI is more intense) etc. I didnt get that on "normal." I had more than enough 
 ammo and creds enough to buy 4 weapons, plus the new suit, by the first store. I want a challenge 
 in the game. If you do too, i sincerely suggest playing on the hardest lvl. Normal is just too 
 easy... anyhow...
  
  Ok, the game IS beautiful. Graphics are superb as we have all been told they would be. The controls, 
 i. e. camera, take a bit of getting used to, but the learning curve is slight and you pick it up 
 fast. No real complaints there. It is however sometimes a total pain to use the curbstomp on enemies. 
 Often times youll find yourself stomping THROUGH them with no effect; even when your using your 
 time slow ability, which lasts a few seconds and then the 'morph is ripping your ankles off again. 
 
  
  The pro's
  Easy to play, cool HUD, cool weapons and fx. Good story. Im like halfway into it and its def. an 
 interesting storyline. 
  
  The con's
  Not nearly as scary as everyone makes it out to be. When i played DOOM 3 I had to take a break 
 after playing for awhile... my nerves where frazzled. Literally. I couldnt take anymore. I HAD to 
 stop. I was expecting at least that much from Dead Space if not more and honestly, its a hell of 
 alot less. Its simply NOT scary. Its cool. But cool isnt scary. Thats actually my biggest complaint. 
 I wanted something that would make me pee myself and this is far from that. So far anyhow. I will 
 revise my review if that somehow changes but for now, i give Dead Space a 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oscar_the_Spaniard
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  First of all I enjoy playing shooters on the PC.
  
  Have no doubt that Dead Space is an amazing game and the story is immersive. On the PC as expected 
 the graphics are absolutely beautiful and better than the console versions.
  
  I've been playing this in the PS3 for about 5 hours, and I didn't really enjoyed the surgical dismemberment, 
 specially when you cannot aim too well using a console controller. 
  
  I decided it was time for me to wait for a PC version, since I enjoy using mouse to aim at things 
 better.
  Opened the PC Dead Space and to my surprise, the controls were totally retarded.
  
  Things that I found:
  
  - No matter how sensitivity you set in the options, the camera 
 rotation gets totally wrong, specially when you are close to corners. It gets slower while you 
 are in corners and faster when you are in the center of a wider space.
  
  - The worst. AIMING. NO matter how much sensitivity you have... I've set mine at maximum. Once 
 you right-click to aim, YOU CAN BARELY MOVE THE CROSSHAIR TO AIM, just a few inches. 
  
  This really affects gameplay. When you have a zombie approaching to you, this means you better 
 have your character positioned in a direction close to where you want to aim. Once you right-click 
 the laser crosshair, will barely move up, down, left, right. Making your "surgical dismemberment" 
 feature even harder than on the console.
  
  What's up with this PC version for god sakes?
  
  Once you have a really really close zombie (monster) , 
 the once that actually "surprise you". When they get too close to you and you want to aim with 
 your mouse, then is too late. Since the crosshair will barely move, you wont be able to target 
 a head, an arm or a leg, unless you start moving the mouse so badly, that it will go outside your 
 desk.
  
  Really, AIMING in this game is broken, which really turned off my excitement to play this game 
 on the PC for the first time. This is really bad and should be corrected by a patch.
  
  Other than that the game shall be all the greatness it should be, as a port, it is very solid, 
 except for controls.
  
  If you don't believe me, try it at your own risk, you will notice how retarded the AIM gets on 
 the PC.
  
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theaznfish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  Several aspects of Dead Space give off a somewhat nostalgic feel while at the same time presenting 
 many revolutionary concepts to which future games in the 3rd person franchise must now live up 
 to. Much like Resident Evil 4, nearly the entire game is played with the camera basically mounted 
 over the shoulder of the protagonist Issac Clarke. Yet unlike nearly all the games of the past, 
 your HUD is no longer a pause button for which you may take your time preparing for the next battle. 
 No, instead it is a hologram in real-time. This innovation removes the feel that this is just a 
 game and emphasizes the immersion of the player into the game. This "No HUD" policy applies to 
 everything [except the pause button] ~ inventory, video uplinks, weapons, maps, objectives, etc.
 
  
  A second plus to the game's story is the many influences to which it has been derived. "Event Horizon", 
 "The Thing", "Aliens", and a touch of "Metroid" are just a few famous movie/game titles that come 
 to mind when playing this game. If you are into sci fi horror, this is definitely a game you have 
 to play.
  
  One of the big major concerns over this game (particularly in the PC realm) was the controls. If 
 you are the type who plays many FPS's and hopes that the mouse/keyboard combination will react 
 just as fast in this game as Half-life or the sort, prepare to be disappointed. Initially it may 
 seem that the controls are a bit laggy due to the creator's neglect, but in fact the controls are 
 only like that because it's supposed to intensify the feeling of vunerability in the game. A piece 
 of advise which seems to allieviate the "floating" controls problem: turn off the vsync. If you 
 feel that you cannot adjust to the controls of a mouse/keyboard (which would only take 5-15 minutes 
 tops) it's highly recommended you get a gamepad like xbox360 controller and the like. Another concern 
 not on the game's part persay but the publisher's and distributor's is the DRM. Yes you are limited 
 to the number of installations you can do in a computer [like Bioshock] . If you're an honest Joe 
 and only intend on playing this on one computer at a time, there should be no problem. A word of 
 warning for those who wish to buy this game for the PC, be sure you're computer can meet the recommended 
 requirements. I say this just because the graphics of this game are something not to be missed.
 
  
  Overall, Dead Space is a great must for the gaming community on consoles and PC's alike. If you 
 like the genre's of gore, science, mystery, and horror; pick up your copy of Dead Space today! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikey3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Its the small things, in no particular order...
  
  I use a Nostromo Belkin controller for the left hand and the mouse for the right. I cant seem to 
 back out far enough from the back of Issac's head to suit me. This game uses the mouse in very 
 strange and unique ways for firing weapons, which for me was a little hard to get used to at first. 
 The mouse pointer does drift a bit in game, until its used for aiming at which point its rock steady. 
 I have had a few crash to desktops for some strange reason, which I dont get on my other graphic 
 intense games. Crashes seem to be associated around the save areas within the game, but this also 
 could be just where I was when it happened. Now, It doesnt do this alot mind you, but is worth 
 a mention here, and I do believe after a patch or so things will smooth right out.... This would 
 have been a 9.5 for me had they not done the weird mouse controls like they did, and the close 
 to the back views, but I did get used to them, after a bit... Knowing all this would I have still 
 bought it? Yep.
  
  Now The Good....
  
  My God- someone did their homework when designing an evil looking atmosphere for us to play in. 
 The graphics, shading, colors and textures is all there. Think haunted house in space, and you 
 might get close. And I kid you not, its scary as Hell! Where you might expect the monsters to be, 
 there isnt one, but your still puckered up and shaking and making those sqeeky noises, ready to 
 be eaten alive. No one there... Then from out of no where BAM! yer face gets ate off. Yea its gory 
 AND its scary. Did I say it was scary? It also feels big inside the game, and you do get a sense 
 that your really lost in a huge place and in deep trouble... The way they string you along with 
 videos and messages is first rate so far, and Ive caught myself jumping and cringing while going 
 around a corner. Its the scariest thing I have ever played, and like Martha said, thats a good 
 thing...
  
  Edited: I see where some write about having aiming problems. I do not have this issue.... My PC 
 aiming reticle moves as expected. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spleenis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  My biggest reservation for purchasing this game on the PC was the controls, which I had heard were 
 sub-par to the console versions. While this is the case with the keyboard and mouse configuration 
 because the mouse feels floaty on certain occasions, it is by no means a deal breaker for purchasing 
 this game. The mouse is a little annoying in the menus, but the actual aiming controls with the 
 mouse are tightened and precise. The free-look mode is a little weird because the camera is SO 
 close to Isaac, but there really isn't a major complaint here. The only reason I even mention the 
 slight complaint concerning the mouse is because, in my opinion, using an Xbox 360 controller with 
 this game is the best option no matter what. I plugged my 360 controller in after a few minutes 
 of trying out the mouse and... Wow, smooth as butter. And this game is not a bad port. There are 
 plenty of graphic options to fiddle with. I jacked everything up on my single GTX 280/q9450 system 
 and there have been ZERO slowdowns and silky smooth framerates. If you had any doubts about the 
 PC version of this game you can safely put them aside and make a very sound purchase. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
