-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dead Man's Hand
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deadmanshand/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.4, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 220 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Human Head Studios
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Mar 18, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dead Man's Hand isn't a bad use of your $20, and for what it's worth, the PC version of this first-person 
 shooter is substantially better than the previously released Xbox version. 

  Much in the way the real-life frontier lands of 19th-century America were untapped territory for 
 land developers, the Wild West remains largely untapped territory for game developers. Sure, there 
 have been a few notable Western-themed action games over the years, from old ones like Capcom's 
 1985 arcade shoot-'em-up, Gun Smoke, to later ones like LucasArts' stylish 1997 first-person shooter, 
 Outlaws. Be that as it may, gamers simply haven't had many chances to play as gunslinging cowboys 
 over the years. Nevertheless, the Wild West is great material for a game, judging by the sorts 
 of action and dramatic tension on display in some of the best movie Westerns -- but a game needs 
 more than just a good premise to succeed. Take Dead Man's Hand, a new first-person shooter from 
 Atari and developer Human Head Studios: It's got a surly cast of characters, a selection of old 
 firearms, and a good musical score, each befitting a Western. Yet in spite of a few noteworthy 
 twists, the game's execution (especially its multiplayer component) leaves a lot to be desired. 
 Still, Dead Man's Hand isn't a bad use of your $20, and for what it's worth, this PC version of 
 the game is substantially better than the previously released Xbox version.  

          Dead Man's Hand features a single-player campaign and an online multiplayer mode, though 
 neither portion is particularly impressive.     

  Dead Man's Hand is a conventional first-person shooter, so if you've played one of the countless 
 number of similar such games in the past few years, you'll have no trouble picking it right up. 
 The game features a fairly brief single-player campaign, playable on three different difficulty 
 levels, and an online multiplayer mode for up to eight players. Online play includes your standard 
 deathmatch and team deathmatch modes, as well as a mode called bounty, in which one particular 
 player becomes the target of everyone else, and another mode called posse, in which players join 
 forces to hold their position against waves of computer-controlled bad guys.  

  There aren't many multiplayer maps to choose from (especially for posse mode) , though what's more 
 problematic is the overall feel of the action. There's little discernible feedback for when you're 
 taking damage, and hit detection is generally flaky, making the core multiplayer gameplay rather 
 unsatisfying. One way of squeezing a little value out of the game's multiplayer features is to 
 start a "posse" session all by yourself, if you just want to shoot at some targets. That may be 
 your best bet, as after several days' worth of attempts, we encountered only a handful of players 
 running about in Dead Man's Hand's multiplayer offering.  

  The single-player portion of Dead Man's Hand casts you as El Tejn, a Mexican outlaw who's 
 been double-crossed by his gang. You'll guide El Tejn through a linear series of missions 
 (there are some optional bonus missions along the way) in which he'll track down and take revenge 
 on his former allies one by one. For the most part, these are straightforward, by-the-numbers first-person 
 shooter levels. They're all relatively short and noticeably scripted, meaning you can expect your 
 enemies to pop out from exactly the same spots each time you play each mission. And, at least at 
 the default difficulty, you'll often need to retry missions a few times, because it's quite possible 
 to instantly get killed in many situations, such as by standing in the vicinity of a powder keg 
 when it goes off. You'll also sometimes lose a great deal of health trying to shoot foes that, 
 due to the game's somewhat flaky hit detection, you just won't be able to hit (though, for what 
 it's worth, this problem isn't nearly as severe as in the Xbox version) . Your occasional showdowns 
 with boss opponents will yield mixed results, too. Some of them are tough, while others are total 
 wimps just waiting to get shot full of lead.  

          There are some twists to the game, such as sequences that take place on horseback and lifelike 
 physics modeling, but these can't make up for the lack of good, solid action.     

  Enemies demonstrate little in the way of convincing behavior, unless you count ducking behind some 
 boxes as convincing. You'll sometimes see your foes do downright absurd things like go running 
 right past you. This is not to say your foes are complete pushovers, since when it comes to shooting, 
 their aim is just fine. There's no ability to save in the middle of a mission, so each time you 
 die, you'll have to start from the beginning of that scenario. The scenarios themselves aren't 
 that long, though, so this isn't necessarily as frustrating as it may seem. Some missions lay the 
 bad guys on pretty thick, but Dead Man's Hand tempts you by allowing you to choose your difficulty 
 setting on a per-mission basis. The easy mode, which really is easy, is always available if you 
 just want to press on through.     

  Dead Man's Hand does have some cool features. Most of all, it boasts a physics model, which is 
 becoming more and more common in today's games and has been seen previously in games like Max Payne 
 2 and Deus Ex: Invisible War. During the course of the action, you'll see crates and chairs get 
 knocked over by explosions or double-barreled shotgun blasts, you'll see enemies get knocked backward 
 or sent flying head over heels, and so on. Some of these effects can be pretty impressive, and 
 they add a bit of variety and visual flair to the action. Dead Man's Hand also features a trick 
 shot system, which rewards you with bonus points for doing such things as shooting the hats off 
 of enemy cowboys' heads or shooting thrown weapons out of the air.  

          You'll unlock new weapons over the course of the campaign, but most of them are too slow 
 to be practical.     

  Moreover, there's a "shot chain" system, which encourages you to shoot multiple targets in a row -- not 
 just bad guys, but also things like glass bottles, tombstones, and other breakable objects -- as 
 though you were at a shooting gallery at a county carnival. The more stuff you shoot, the more 
 you fill your power meter, which allows you to use each of your weapons' alternate firing modes, 
 most of which simply allow you to shoot faster or do more damage than you would regularly. What's 
 more, prior to each mission, you get to play a hand of poker. Draw a winning hand, and you'll earn 
 bonuses to your ammunition and your power meter. You can keep pressing your luck, but if you come 
 up without so much as a two-pair, you'll lose all the bonuses you've racked up.  

  It's nice that Dead Man's Hand features these twists in what's an otherwise standard first-person 
 shooter. In practice, though, these extra features aren't well implemented. It becomes obvious, 
 for instance, that El Tejn's luck at the game of poker is unreal. You'll regularly draw incredibly 
 good winning hands, but who cares? In most missions, you don't benefit from having extra ammo anyway. 
 And the game's point system isn't very interesting, either, since it's in the context of an average 
 first-person shooter. You probably won't want to revisit these levels to earn high scores, for 
 the same reasons mentioned above -- the core action and the enemy artificial intelligence just aren't 
 particularly good.  

  Despite the occasionally cool-looking use of physics, Dead Man's Hand really doesn't look all that 
 great, though it does look fairly good. The characters you'll run across predominantly look like 
 the ill-tempered gunslingers you'd expect, and being able to shoot their hats off their heads is 
 certainly a plus. The settings are predictable for a Western-themed game, and perhaps the drab 
 textures are to be expected given the dusty, run-down environs of the game. The weapons, which 
 mostly include a few different pistols, rifles, and shotguns, also look decent. The game runs nice 
 and smooth even on relatively old systems.  

          Dead Man's Hand has the basic sights and sounds of the Wild West down, but it rarely delivers 
 much excitement.     

  As for the audio, Dead Man's Hand notably features a nicely done soundtrack, reminiscent of classic 
 spaghetti Westerns. And the weapon effects are fine. But there are some problems with the sound, 
 otherwise. The voice work in the game's  cutscenes sounds like 
 it's all being delivered by just a few guys trying to make their voices sound as gravelly as possible, 
 but it's not bad. What's more unfortunate is that the in-mission audio mostly sounds like it's 
 all happening right next to you. In other first-person action games, you'll use your sense of hearing 
 to discern where enemies are coming from, but in Dead Man's Hand, every time you hear a bad guy 
 announce himself with a one-liner of some sort, you'll wonder where he is. Fortunately, onscreen 
 threat indicators, showing the direction from which you're being shot at, make it easy to find 
 the culprit, but at that point, you're just watching for a yellow or red onscreen icon rather than 
 getting immersed into the experience of a first-person-perspective game. The game's nicely done 
 instruction manual, which is designed in the fashion of 19th-century postings and advertisements, 
 is perhaps the most authentic aspect of Dead Man's Hand.  

  As an entry in one of the most competitive and most popular genres of gaming, Dead Man's Hand does 
 not truly succeed on any level, despite a few nice touches. The multiplayer component is weak, 
 and the single-player action isn't going to blow you away, though it has its moments. Fans of Westerns 
 would get a kick out of the game and should consider it, given the budget price. However, they'll 
 just have to keep holding out hope that a truly great Western-themed game is somewhere on the horizon 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: G3N-Wylde
Rating: 1
Date: May 15, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  i bought the game for $10 dollars new figuring a game to play for fun you know what i mean. then 
 i install it says it is not compatible with my windows program. come to find out cant play it with 
 service pack 2 unless you install the patch. no big deal i said till i downloaded the patch went 
 to install it and it did not accept the patch. garbage if you ask me i would be real pissed if 
 the game just came out and i paid $40-$50 for it and it didn't work. i am just disgusted with this 
 setup if anyone knows how to get the patches to work please let me know i would appreciate it greatly. look 
 me up in game spot if you can help and i will definitely play the game if i can get it work  
 is how i feel right now i am very discouraged and i would not wish this problem on any foe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a nice FPS, kind of western, very funny &amp; action-packed sometimes, with a superb &amp; 
 funny multiplayer. The graphics are just nice, although nothing delights you. Only the phisic engine, which 
 is very very good for that time. The sound is really great. But the voice of El Tejon, the main character, is 
 annoying. You'll enjoy shooting bandits, mexicans, canibal soldiers &amp; a lot of bosses, each one 
 with new weapons, etc. At the start of each mission you'll get to play poker, to make more ammo or 
 health. The action is really good, but there are some problems with the pathfinding. The story isn't 
 the good point of Dead Man's Hand. It's not interesting, although the ending missions are really 
 good (&amp; funny) . It wasn't meant to be an award-winning game; it isn't. It's just good,&amp; it's 
 been a pleasure playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XanderKage
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I always liked the Wild West. I thin it has great potential when it comes to computer games, although 
 it wasn't fully used. Dead Man's Hand is another one of those could_have_been_better games. It 
 has a good story base: a hombre left for dead by his former gang-mates looking for revenge. It's 
 a good base, but the storytelling could've been better. Missions seem random, only tied together 
 by short cutseens and players monolog at the start.
  The sound, where maybe not of the greatest quality, but sets a good Wild-West mood. Explosions 
 and gunfire sounded also good. The only turn down was the main character's cheesy accent.
  Graphics aren't that good. They seem dated and could have used a bit more color...
  Gameplay..... 
 This is where the game is most disappointing. Again, it not bad, it is a pretty fum run-and-gun 
 first person shooter (kinda reminds of Doom in 3d) . You get to choose you weapons: one for each 
 kind, a pistol, a rifle and a shotgun. You also get to play a little game of poker to increase 
 (or lose) your ammo. Then it goes bleak. You run through the level killing endless number of foes 
 until you get to the boss. Boss battle are different from one another, but still not very interesting. 
 The game offers nice moments, like riding a horse through the level, but again it's not in it's 
 full potential. And the only puzzles the game offers are little searches of where to go next... 
 Oh, about the difficulty. it's very easy on the easy level, as the enemies die from a single shot, 
 but punishing already on the medium level, as the enemies become sharpshooters.
  So if you like Wild-West and want some fast and pretty mindless fun you might wanna check it out. 
 If you want depth look some where else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  When I was a kid, my parents would take me to Six Flags Over Georgia several times each summer. 
 Although my dad wasnt fond of throwing his money away on the games of chance at Six Flags midway 
 -- you know the ones: the ring toss, penny pitch, and water-guns -- there was one booth over by 
 the Great Gasp that even he couldnt resist. It was an Old West-style shooting range set in a dusty 
 saloon, complete with animatronic gunslingers and a piano player. Every object scattered around 
 the set was a target, from spittoons to shot glasses to the bartenders bowler hat. I loved that 
 game immensely (definitely an early sign of my affinity for first-person shooters) , far more than 
 a boring bean bag toss or Whack-a-Mole, to the extent that I would beg to stay and play even as 
 the park was shutting down for the night.
  That old, long-gone park attraction was the first thing that came to mind the moment I looked through 
 El Tej&oacute; ns eyes. Every whiskey bottle, window pane, box, and barrel presents itself for 
 a rampage of Yosimite Sam-like proportions. Blasting some items will occasionally lead to a gratifying 
 chain reaction of destruction, and not even the buzzards flying overhead are safe. The real targets, 
 of course, are the villainous cowboys and pistoleros who are loyal to the protagonists former 
 peers, a group of sneering Old West archetypes who revoked El Tej&oacute; ns gang membership in 
 grand fashion and left him for dead. The enemies are suitably detailed and competent with their 
 own weapons (although their limited artificial intelligence tends to make them suicidally stationary) , 
 so the game doesnt consist of just standing around shooting at inanimate objects. Doing so, however, 
 lends power to El Tej&oacute; ns attacks through a shot meter which, once it is maxed-out, activates 
 such features as a sniper scope and the Dillingers four-bullet combo.
  The games detailed backgrounds of desert buttes, redwood forests, and mountains were expansive 
 and attractive. Havocs ragdoll physics are always welcome in any game, and theyre especially 
 effective in Dead Mans Hand with the proper application of exploding barrels and collapsible balconies. 
 However, I do have one MAJOR complaint (and this is directed toward any game developer) : omitting 
 the quicksave feature -- something to which we PC gamers, in particular, are very accustomed -- 
 is just not cool. Starting over entirely from the beginning of a level does not constitute a challenge, 
 its a direct line to jaw-grinding frustration coupled with a bout of vengeful software uninstallation.
 
  
  Notable Feature: The shot meter. Including it wasnt terribly essential, but the power enhancements 
 that the meter activates provide an excuse to blast everything in sight to pieces.
  
  Favorite Weapon: I got a lot of mileage out of the Pepperbox pistol. Its fast firing rate makes 
 for easy trick shots even at long range and the secondary mode is useful for a quick ambush from 
 behind cover.
  
  Favorite Level: The very last battle, which takes place (minor spoiler alert) amidst the wreckage 
 of several train cars at the edge of a massive and well-rendered desert.
  
  Dead Mans Hand does a very good job of satisfying my love of virtual breakage. The games variety 
 in its sound effects, environmental details, and character textures outweighs the minimal story 
 and conspicuously absent quicksave function. Aside from the latter problem, the tale of El Tej&oacute; ns 
 redemption made for an entertaining diversion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 24, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  This game is the most boring, bland, lifeless excuse for a shooter I've seen in some time. The 
 graphics are ok, the sound is ok, but the gameplay such as it is, is driven by a rather contrived, 
 lame story of vengence ala Clint Eastwood Western: The main character is grievously wronged (not 
 that you ever see this) and has returned to exact justice on those who wronged him. Not long into 
 the game, in a nauseatingly corny scene he meets up with some girl who wants to help him and informs 
 her this is too dangerous for her and he must go it alone, etc. It wasn't long after this that 
 I exited the game and uninstalled it.
  
  The cut scenes are done in faded, blurry, low resolution, black and white, as if this is supposed 
 to be a very old Western film reel I suppose. Rather than pull off any sort of authenticity however, 
 they simply look terrible, not that the story they present is worthy of your attention anyway.
 
  
  In highly linear fashion, you move from point A to point B, killing various bad guys as you go 
 until you reach the end of the level and kill some boss character and then lucky you gets to see 
 the next cutscene for your reward. In one level I'd killed them all I thought and kept wandering 
 about trying to get the damned boss to just spawn so I could kill him too and end this torment, 
 but no.... I must have wasted some 10 minutes screwing around before I stepped on the magic spot 
 that caused him to appear and begin tossing knives at me.
  
  If the game has a save system, it wasn't readily apparent to me so I found myself having to reload 
 multiple times to get through the early levels on standard difficulty. Getting sick of this, I 
 wimped out and took the easy level of difficulty for the purpose of seeing some more of the game 
 before abandoning ship altogether.
  
  I tried the multiplayer which also is lacking and played a little western shoot-out briefly, became 
 bored and left. I tried again the next night I played and found nobody home. I guess they all feel 
 asleep too and were perhaps still taking siestas after time spent with this title. I feel thier 
 pain.
  
  On a bright note, I only paid a few bucks for this in a EB Games clearance bin as a used title. 
 I guess somebody with little conscience sold it back so some other hapless gamer could suffer - 
 misery does love company.
  
  It isn't often I have such disdain for a game but I've long wanted to enjoy a decent Western themed 
 shooter and basically there hasn't been one since Lucas Arts gave us Outlaws. Maybe Gun will be 
 better. I certainly hope so.
  
  When it comes to this game my advice folks is to get the hell outta Dodge right now! You're gonna 
 need to saddle up and ride elsewhere if you want some real western themed shooter fun as there 
 isn't any to be found here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofgames90
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  The game of dead mans hand had a nice idea wich the developers didnt use well i mean this game 
 doesnt look a 2004 game dome is much better 
  
  Story: about an indian ho revenges from the gang that he was a member in as the gang tried to kill 
 
  
  Graphics: bad graphics wich give a feel of some bad pixels and one more besides the story its boring 
 the same ones you kill they get out again that's not good where is the fun of 1rst person action 
 shootem up game this doesnt have what it takes to a good one this game may let you like it at the 
 begining altugh some will throw the Cds as soon as he see how the game looks sow once again some 
 of you will like it at the bigining but after a while you will say thet this game is borring and 
 play with the Cd as a twister 
  One last thing try to compare this game with HALF LIFE 2 wich came at 2004 as well as DEAD MANS 
 HAND and you will see what i ment about the graphic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r1crawford
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  Having experienced the excellent game 'Outlaws', I was left wanting more. But western shooters 
 just arent that plentiful. Actually they're extremely rare. So when 'Dead Man's Hand' came along 
 I was delighted that I had another chance to play a FPS in a theme I really enjoy. That delight 
 didn't last long.
  
  The cons greater outweigh the pros in this game. While the game looks ok, it's not what you'd expect 
 from a modern shooter. Maybe 2-3 years earlier, but now it looks kind of bland. There are a few 
 touches, such as barrels that will move as you shoot them, and lots of bottles and other objects 
 to shoot away at. But these just get boring, and are just distractions to cover up a poor game.
 
  
  The game itself it totally linear, and is very short. An experienced FPS user will have this beaten 
 in a day. So while its a budget FPS, you still aren't getting value for money. Even the online 
 play is poor, and very few people seem interested in participating.
  
  The story? Basically your gang betrays you and now it's payback time. So you track through various 
 level shooting and blasting away at the dumbest AI you'll find. Their aim can be quite good, but 
 there's usually plenty of health packs about, so it's not a big deal. Otherwise, apart from the 
 odd dash behind some cover, they'll pretty much stand there like dummies and you mow them down. 
 And it's a one shot kill, so no matter what weapon you use, if you hit them in the leg/arm/ass 
 theyll drop like flies. No real challenge. It can be tougher to deal the 'bosses', but in this 
 case its just repeated shots that'll put them down, no real tactics.
  
  If you want to spend you cash on a western FPS then use your money to buy 'Outlaws'. It doesn't 
 look as good (Outlaws is from '97) but the experienced is much more rewarding. If you have 'Outlaws' 
 already, then don't waste you time, money or abilities on this, just replay 'Outlaws'.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiecutter
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 28, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  Dead Man's Hand is your classic Western tale of revenge, greed, love, and making things go "BANG!" 
 - all in one nicely priced computer game.
  
  The story is a familiar one - A hero (El Tejon) is left for dead by his gang, but survives and 
 swears revenge, hunting down each one in turn. Along the way, you can unlock weapons, perform trick 
 shots, ride horses, minecarts and trains, and generally act like your common-or-garden cowboy-on-a-mission.
 
  
  Perhaps the coolest thing about the game is the physics engine. There's a bundle of stuff in-game 
 that can be shot, blown up, cut, smashed and broken - all with surprisingly realistic effect. The 
 game's ragdoll models also work well. 
  
  For all its cool points, the game just doesn't ever rise above the level of mediocraty. The game's 
 linear, predictably scripted levels aren't terribly inspiring, and while there's an occasional 
 flash of brilliance, you can pretty much walk through most levels without running into anything 
 memorable.
  
  There's a problem with character as well. This type of game / story works better when the hero 
 is at least likable or well developed but with El Tejon this just isn't the case. The Nine (the 
 gang which you set out to kill) are nicely developed but ultimately rather cliched.
  
  Sound-wise, the game sports a remarkably decent soundtrack. The sounds are spot on and capture 
 the atmosphere of the Old West. Unfortunately some of the dialogue in the game is pretty terrible.
 
  
  Graphically, the game isn't terribly exciting .. but then again a game set in the Old West is bound 
 to have that handicap. For what it does, the graphics are quite good - however the character models 
 could have used a bit more detail.
  
  All in all, Dead Man's Hand is a perfectly fun runaround in the Old West .. it's just a shame it 
 isn't anything more than a simple linear 3rd-person shooter with an Old West setting. It's a good 
 game ... it's just let down by an overall sense of blandness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartlebytheon
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 16, 2004 10:55 am PT
Review:  This sure isnt how the west was won, and certainly isnt how the west was fun. Ive always liked 
 westerns, so I didnt let a few bad reviews stop me from getting Dead Mans Hand. It was real disappointment. 
 Starting with the graphics, the awkward positions corpses got into when they fell were ludicrous. 
 Perspective really became distorted at points when moving through mountains and through mines. 
 As bad as the graphics were, the sound was worse. The voice over track was ridiculous at times. 
 The game itself was enjoyable but repetitive, and the actual movement through terrain was difficult 
 at times, it didnt work smoothly. It was a decent attempt, but it could have been so much better. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
