-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Deadly Dozen: Pacific Theater
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deadlydozenpacifictheater/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.8, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 152 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Nfusion
Genre: Historic Tactical Shooter
Date:     Oct 31, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may be a little rough around the edges, but it's both exciting and technically impressive enough 
 to stand up to its full-priced competition. 

 The first Deadly Dozen was a budget-priced World War II-themed tactical shooter that, despite some 
 problems, was surprisingly good. Almost exactly a year after its release, developer nFusion has 
 released a follow-up, Deadly Dozen: Pacific Theater. As the title implies, the sequel moves the 
 setting from North Africa and Western Europe to the jungles and cities of the Pacific campaign. 
 It also improves on the original in every way -- it's longer, it's better looking, it includes a 
 multiplayer component, and it addresses several of Deadly Dozen's most serious problems. It has 
 a few notable problems, but Pacific Theater stands on its own merits as a unique and entertaining 
 shooter with a skillfully realized jungle setting.           Pacific Theater features some impressively 
 rendered jungle environments whose dense foliage actually provides cover.    

  Even though they share similar themes, Pacific Theater's design is almost a complete reversal of 
 the design of the recently released Medal of Honor Allied Assault: Spearhead. While Spearhead presents 
 you with what amounts to a heavily scripted, interactive amusement park ride, Pacific Theater sets 
 you down in a series of huge environments, gives you a set of goals, and then pretty much leaves 
 everything else up to you. You can choose your equipment and your team, the order in which you 
 tackle the mission objectives, and what routes you take through the level.   

  Before each of the 12 large missions, you choose a squad of up to four soldiers out of a roster 
 of a dozen. Each man has 11 attributes, up from Deadly Dozen's seven. But just like in the first 
 game, unless you're planning on performing some sort of stunt course through the mission -- like 
 completing it armed only with a knife -- the sniping and infiltration skills rule the battlefield. 
 Some of the new weapons such as the samurai sword and a good-looking flamethrower are nice additions, 
 but they're relatively useless.   

  This is largely because Pacific Theater, even more so than the original Deadly Dozen, is a game 
 about creeping around and killing enemies from a distance. Thankfully, the environments and enemy 
 AI make this style of play extremely satisfying. Pacific Theater's jungle environments are its 
 most impressive feature. The levels are enormous -- most appear to encompass perhaps two or three 
 square miles of terrain. The diversity, density, and constant swaying motion of trees and undergrowth 
 create a jungle atmosphere that's entirely believable. The fog curtain that plagued Deadly Dozen 
 has been pushed back a little, but it's still around. As in the original, you won't be getting 
 any panoramic views of your surroundings. However, the haziness seems more appropriate in the thick 
 tropical foliage of Pacific Theater than it did in the bright sunlight of Deadly Dozen's desert 
 levels.   

  Unlike Deadly Dozen's superhuman enemy AI, the enemy AI in Pacific Theater is no longer infallibly 
 accurate and can no longer see you while it's still shrouded in fog. As a result, fog isn't a gameplay 
 problem anymore. And as such, your computer-controlled teammates are actually an asset rather than 
 the liability they often were in the original. Instead of waiting until one of their squadmates 
 gets shot in the head from afar to take any action, in Pacific Theater, your teammates will often 
 spot enemies and fire on them first.   

  But in general, the teammate AI is the area in which Pacific Theater is least improved. You can 
 still give your squad basic commands such as "follow," "hold position," and "hold fire," but as 
 in the first game, their pathfinding skills aren't especially refined. Sometimes, teammates will 
 easily navigate a thick maze of logs and rocks. Other times, they'll get stuck behind a single 
 boulder sitting by itself in the middle of an open stretch of flat ground. Their behavior is pretty 
 unpredictable, which makes the problem more annoying. Since you can still actively control every 
 member of your squad and manually guide them where you need them to go, it's not as big a problem 
 as it could be, but it's still something that the developer should address if it plans to develop 
 a Deadly Dozen 3.   

  The Pacific missions range from blowing up a bridge in Guadalcanal and infiltrating a Japanese 
 airbase to destroying tanks roaming the streets of occupied Manila. One mission even takes place 
 in the snowy Aleutian Islands, a setting overlooked by other World War II-themed games. Most levels 
 feature a drivable vehicle or two, such as scout cars, transport trucks, and fully operational 
 tanks, though you'll spend most of your time on foot. Unlike some games that have featured similar 
 jungle settings, Pacific Theater's well-rendered environments actually provide believable cover 
 for both you and your opponents, lending every mission a tangible element of paranoia. The game 
 makes leaving the relative safety of lying on your belly in the weeds in order to sprint across 
 an open field a legitimately thrilling gamble.   

  Even though the game's orchestral music score is excellent, you may want to turn it off for the 
 simple reason that it occasionally intrudes on the gameplay. A "suspense" theme plays when enemies 
 are near and stops when they're either gone or killed. This may work great for games that are less 
 interactive, or for shooters that involve less use of camouflage, but it undercuts a lot of the 
 tension the game works hard to build.           A few levels take place entirely in urban environments, 
 such as this mission through occupied Manila.    

  By far, Deadly Dozen's best (and most stable) multiplayer feature is the ability to play through 
 the single-player levels cooperatively. With two or three players, the co-op mode works pretty 
 smoothly. But as more players join a game, the server stability appears to take a serious nosedive. 
 This makes Pacific Theater's other multiplayer modes (including deathmatch, capture the flag, and 
 an interesting version of the single-player levels in which one team takes the Japanese side in 
 an attempt to keep the American team from completing the mission goals) largely exercises in getting 
 disconnected every two minutes. A patch is evidently in the works, but if you're planning to purchase 
 Pacific Theater just for online deathmatch, you might want to hold off for a while.   

  There's a lot to like about Pacific Theater, not the least of which is its budget price. It's a 
 little rough around the edges, but it's both exciting and technically impressive enough to hold 
 its own against its full-priced competition.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Music: N/A
  The music at the menu is pretty good, otherwise there is no music. This is incredibly realistic 
 because of the sounds.
  
  Sound: 9.7
  The gun sounds aren't to special, but the background sounds are pro. You hear bees buzzing around, 
 bird noises, background shooting, frogs, bugs etc.
  
  Gameplay: 8.9
  It's pretty good gameplay but its pretty hard and you can't sneak up on people. They can just see 
 you if you try, so you have to stand far away and snipe them, It's pretty hard because you have 
 the same amount of health as they do, good thing you can send in a squadron of up to four in to 
 kill. It is incredibly realistic though, because if you character dies in battle, he's dead for 
 the rest of the game. It's for the patient lot of you, then it's fun.
  
  Graphics: 7.8
  Not the best, but it was made in 2002, what do you expect?
  
  Multiplayer: 9.8
  Very fun 
 stealth multiplayer
  
  Replay Value: 7.8
  
  Value: 9.3
  Very cheap off eBay, got it for $9 + postage AU
  
  PROS:
  Sounds
  It's cheap!
  Multiplayer
 
  
  CONS:
  Can't sneak
  Hard
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Few games were as frustrating to review as Deadly Dozen. Regardless of what approach was attempted, 
 nFusion's Nazis in its third and first-person shooting take on World War II would peg you and your 
 three deadly buddies with startling precision. Call it the blessed foresight of the Master Race. 
 Call it the heightened awareness of a battle hardened German army. Call it sloppy AI. Whatever, 
 it was unfair. So unfair in fact that the game quickly degenerated into a painful and tedious exercise 
 in elementary trial and error. I got shot from the fog, shot from the bush, shot from that nook 
 a mile away in a building hidden behind the fog and the bush. It was quite terrible and needlessly 
 difficult to best. Mix in the completely disrespectful omission of any and all multiplayer and 
 drop in the typical gaming downfall of brevity and the result was a budget title that tried hard 
 but accomplished little.
  
  Seize Deadly Dozen's core in your clammy hands. Pull the world at war right out it and spin that 
 beating globe of the mid twentieth century so that the South Pacific is in plain site. Land the 
 American army there. Take the magically endowed spectacles the Nazis had away from this entirely 
 different Japanese threat. And, throw in a multiplayer mode. Could it be greatness? When the gripes 
 of the original are all but gone in the sequel, shouldn't what's left be utter bliss? Theoretically. 
 But as is usually the case, what's excellent on paper isn't necessarily perfection in practice.
 
  
  Let's take the fight to the Japanese. War buffs have been craving an action title set in the Pacific 
 Theater for some time. Battlefield took us there admirably, but that game sorely lacked the cohesive 
 singleplayer experience to keep fans enthralled in the era. Ultimately that stellar multiplayer-centric 
 title amounts to red vs. blue gaming. What we have been and still are hoping for is a proper Medal 
 of Honor delivered under the baking sun of the Philippines. Since Spearhead all but devastated 
 that hope for the short-term, solace must be sought in Deadly Dozen: Pacific Theater (sometimes 
 also referred to as Deadly Dozen 2, depending on where looked) .
  
  Unfortunately, this game suffers from the same disjointed assortment of missions syndrome that 
 afflicts many other wartime, history-based, or militaristic action titles (think Delta Force, Comanche, 
 Medal of Honor, and Battlefield) . Even though at any given moment players are charged with leading 
 and being four from of a pool of twelve rough and tumble Dogfaces, Leathernecks and Swab-Jockeys, 
 they never really assume or care about the personality of one or any of them. Live or die, they're 
 all cannon fodder.
  
  This is no Band of Brothers. There is no evolving story, no personality, no care for one individual 
 over another. The very strict beat this and then undertake that attitude is off and unwanted. Where 
 passable in other titles, here it is not. Pacific Theater's band of lowlifes gone patriots, like 
 Lee Marvin's own crew before them, beg for further development. But that is a fleeting qualm, as 
 the 12 missions undertaken are clever and varied enough in premise to do away with whatever lacking 
 development there is.
  
  Delivery is where it truly hurts. Even though the AI in this new iteration is far more forgiving 
 than before, the game devolves quickly to a tried but not true approach to action. However sparsely 
 populated and unbecoming of World War II, the universe of DD nevertheless necessitates very, very 
 slow movement, lots of sniping, and even more laying down. Approaching every single problem the 
 same exact way for all 12 of the titles missions bores. Even though the objectives and locales 
 differ (beach landing at Tarawa, urban rubble of the Philippines, snow of Alaska) the gameplay 
 is never frantic or up close and personal enough to be exhilarating. It's a tiring trek through 
 a jungle, livened up only by the occasional, superfluous vehicle (sometimes even hard to control, 
 as is the case with the oddly pivoting turret of the tank) .
  
  No scale. There is simply no sense of war. Had I not been told beforehand, I would have suspected 
 this to be a revision of some Chuck Norris movie where the karate master with his own fitness system 
 had to infiltrate and kill folk all by his lonesome. Aside from a few scripted events and the Furious 
 Four (since four of the Deadly Dozen are only controllable at any given time) , the game is just 
 you vs. them. Admittedly, your small squad lends to a more covert style of play, but battles could 
 have been larger. War could have been raging.
  
  Even further hampering the underlying concept of the title is the fact that you're prohibited, 
 by punishment of death and reload, to ever get close to anyone. Bad guys here are not as frighteningly 
 accurate as they once were, sure, we've established that already, but one hit from a machinegun 
 still means several hits from a machinegun, which still means death. The Japanese also like to 
 charge, a lot. Insistent on advancing, they'll always, always, always try and narrow the gap between 
 you and them, outnumbered or not, which is never a good thing. And, even though the shrubbery is 
 there in glorious abundance, once you're seen, you can't practically be unseen. The other three 
 on team America point out baddies by brutally murdering them and hit indicators, enemy indicators, 
 and a slightly polished positional audio system help spotting the legions of Japan's best a bit 
 easier, but the brush will help conceal them more than it will you. What to do? Snipe and crouch 
 walk, all the damn time.
  
  Despite being underdeveloped, the setting manages to still in some way save face. Skulking through 
 the dense underbrush of a steamy and still barbeque mist ridden locale (now more appropriately 
 so than before) , all the while firing off eloquent bursts of small gunfire can be a real hoot, 
 one that with a few tweaks would be consistently delightful, if not for the fact that atop all 
 other problems, gamers are constantly having to cater to the needs of untrained comrades. Like 
 it was before, simple orders force the three perishable members of the Deadly Dozen enlisted for 
 a specific assignment into formation, holds, firing postures, and target specific attacks. Still, 
 just as these genes were inherited, others were as well. Whomever is chosen to help win the day 
 for the Allies matters very little (attributes and weapons that can be customized and carried based 
 on weight and stamina individualize each soldier) . In the end they all perform and act the same, 
 which is to say they get caught in silly areas, die a lot, shoot with precise aim, and do nothing 
 constructive but walk, pull the trigger and act as human shields or human walls. Having to backtrack, 
 fetching the computer powered incompetence from a place they cannot get out of, or holding up the 
 entire unit to switch to a lost one and recover him is painful. Indicators clearly tell when each 
 is out of shouting distance or not following an order. Likewise, the functionally sound map (no 
 mini map?) helps pinpoint them, but the problem remains.
  
  So with its bugs and inherently straightforward, redundant play devoid of any scripting to add 
 tension and diversity and no raging battles to thrust players headlong into the brutality of the 
 time, Pacific Theater remains average, clasping firmly to its objectives, vast landscapes, premise, 
 and somewhat enjoyable, pseudo-stealthy approach to gaming. Neither its vehicular nor squad-based 
 components are enough to warrant any particular merit, but the fact that they are included in this, 
 what is a budget title by nature and price, help push a resoundingly ho-hum and particularly uninteresting 
 combat system up into the levels of solid decency, a considerable bit above its predecessor.
  
  Graphics and sound have gotten a fair bit of work since last year, but not so much to warrant 
 excessive praise or commendation. Character models are substandard, poorly textured, stiffly animating, 
 and strangely out of place. They fall bizarrely, suffer from some rather odd collision detection, 
 and are never seen in large groups. Weapon models seem marginally improved, but still lack transitional 
 animations. Most improved is the terrain. Inexplicable slowdowns still mar what little indoor activity 
 there is, but a slightly extended draw distance (still pretty darn close) and a hell of a lot more 
 flora make the world as a whole believable. But it would be nothing without ambience and pistol 
 fire.
  
  Still pleasing and appropriate, the wide range of audio present pumps adrenaline, places players 
 in the jungle, and preludes any and all action, dynamically changing from one mood to another. 
 All the while, gunshots ring out, thuds of lead impacting flesh echo, and ricochets piercingly 
 zing through one ear and out the other. It was quality stuff before and it's quality stuff right 
 now. I'd like to have seen more range based audio, more varied dialog, and more blood curdling 
 enemy yelps and alarms. Maybe in the next one. What did you think of The Pacific Theater? And now, 
 completely left out of the first game, is this fully implemented, full-blown multiplayer support. 
 Standard modes we're all familiar with accentuate two real sellers, cooperative play and counter-operative 
 play. Cooperative, as the name suggests, allows friends to partake in the entire singleplayer experience 
 together, making the ride that much more enjoyable. Hell yes! Pacific Theater's version of counter-operative 
 play (a name I take from Perfect Dark) , is essentially the same kind of mission-based play, only 
 people can also opt to be Japanese and prevent the American advance. You're right, that is very 
 cool. Guess what? It doesn't work well. Even dedicated servers on LANs with more than a couple 
 of people are hit and miss and prone to irregular crashes. Playing online is virtually impossible. 
 Patches are supposedly in the works. When they come, this will truly be one of Pacific Theater's 
 most endearing aspects. I'm not the king of netcode, but even I recognize problems when I see them.
 
  
  Closing Comments
  Far from perfect, Pacific Theater is a phenomenal step over the original Deadly Dozen, which fell 
 far short of quality gaming in nearly every single respect. Fixing many of the woes and wrongs 
 of its father by improving enemy AI and including multiplayer support is commendable, to say the 
 least, as is the focus on the oft overlooked Pacific Campaign complete with an Alaskan mission. 
 However, this second World War II outing from the developers at nFusion has many miles to go before 
 it can comfortably and rightly sleep next to the big boys.
  
  Dropping players into relatively nonlinear missions where they are free to roam about and murder 
 the Legion of Honorable Doom sounds like a good idea, but is delivered with little direction and 
 thus little excitement. Sporadic firefights with never more than four or five enemies are also 
 sadly kept at distances. Consequently, the suspense of storming a village or hut, or even a simple 
 line of trees is all but extinguished once the tedious, unforgiving nature of the game sets in. 
 Walk, prone, snipe, walk.
  
  Still, its redeeming qualities (price included) manage to overwhelm buggy performance, nagging 
 AI issues, somewhat lax graphics, and a surprisingly unstable but enjoyable multiplayer component. 
 In the end, Pacific Theater is sure to become another wanted action title by those rabid war buffs 
 who simply cannot get enough carnage and patriotic drama. For gamers stout of heart and full of 
 little desire to relive wars of yesteryear, there are better offers, certainly. But, none perhaps 
 aspire to become more than they are as much as Deadly Dozen does. For that, and the fact that there 
 are few glaring faults and many, many improvements, the title comes recommended.
  IGN Ratings for Deadly Dozen: Pacific Theater (PC) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marttiva
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 29, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Music: There is no music at all ingame-this does in fact add some realism to the game as there are 
 enough sounds in the background to make you feel like you were really in a jungle. besides music 
 in the menu is splendid and fits the theme quite well, you'll find yourself spending more time 
 in the menu that you might think-mostly preparing for the upcoming mission./7.6
  
  Gameplay: Definetly the best aspect of a game like this, however this case does have some faults. Gameplay 
 isn't too complex yet still fun. It's similar to what you'd expect from any other tactical shooter-you'll 
 get the map and objectives before you start the mission and you can choose a team of up to 4 men. You 
 can choose them from 12 existing men and if one of them dies in a mission, he'll reamain dead for 
 the rest of the game. Every character has aset of abilities (altogether 10) like explosives, rifles, 
 handguns, sniping, medicine etc..
  You'll also get to equip them with a variety of weapons:
  Thopson, m1 Garand, M1 carbine, Colt 
 1911, Flamer, Browning Automatic Rifle, Springfield M'03 Sniper, Frag grenades, army knife. You can 
 also take weapons from killed japs, those include: ariska rifle, ariska sniper rifle, smg type 100, 
 mg type 100, machete, katana, nambu pistol. besides that, there are items like a coin (for whatever 
 reasons) binoculars, dynamite, ammo belt, medical kit etc..
  you will also get to drive some vehicles like a tank and a japanese car but only in a few missions 
 and it takes some time to get used to aiming with the tank.
  It's alsoy quite hard to make use of some things like: Frag grenades (raraely come in use and difficult 
 to hit target) binoculars (just use a sniper scope) . It's unrealistic that the AI doesnt spend any 
 ammo at all when they fire, only you do when you take control of a character. you can order commands 
 the AI teammates like: Cease fire! or hold position! (and their opposites) . maps in deadly dozen 
 2 are mostly large open outdoor areas, which in fact is a good thing.9 of the 12 missions in the 
 game take place in jungles so this can get repetitive. objectives in the game are often destroying 
 a specific target like an AA gun. The biggest problem is the AI which is very poor, a AI character 
 will often times get stuck behind an obejct, so you must take control of him and get him out, ths 
 can be frustrating. Another thing is that AI will try shooting enemies through ground that are on 
 lower ground than you are. Overall its fun but frustrating./6.8
  
  Graphics: Obselete by now, but otherwise very playable, the weapon models are quite nicely done, 
 the jungles look realistic (though not as good as in Vietcong ) , you can switch between first person 
 and third person and overall looks fine./7.1
  
  Sound: Nothing special here, weapon sounds are fine, but all mg's and smg's use the same sound and 
 some rifles do as well as both pistols. barrels make sound when they explode, but that is only in 
 one mission, your AI controlled teammates will often scream something when they see an enemy or 
 hit one. You can hear your own footsteps etc.. Overall, it feels quite realistic when you are in 
 the jungle and quietly trying to locate a sniper on a cliff with the birds singing in the background.. makes 
 up for the absence of music./8.3
  
  Overall:7,45 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cj-shisno7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I used to own this game. I played online as "Leader (Chris. J) *CJ*". I owned a clan that was very 
 good too. The online is great, you can play co-op levels with up to 12 other people, you can have 
 awesome deathmatches, and you can meet alot of cool people. When i was starting there was a guy 
 named Zach that helped me out. There are also allways people playing, even though there was only 
 about 50 people who really played. Enough about the online, the offline modes are really good too. 
 You got to pick from rather 12 american troops or 8 japanesse troops and you can pick from over 
 20 authetic WWII weapons, not including grenades, health packs, and machete's. I recomment this 
 game to any WWII lover or anyone who loves PC online games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
