-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dead Reefs
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/deadreefs/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Atmosphere as thick and chilling as a London fog.
 Evocative pulp story.
 Detailed visuals and sparse, eerie musical score combine to build tension.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Clunky keyboard-only controls.
 Obtuse puzzles with little direct feedback to provide any hints.
 Visuals frequently get in the way of solving puzzles and finding crucial items.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.9, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 99 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Streko-Graphics
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jul 3, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Puzzle problems and a terrible interface land Dead Reefs on the rocks. 

  Gothic atmosphere and a creepy haunted house aren't quite enough to keep Dead Reefs in the land 
 of the living. While the look and sound of the Streko Graphics-developed adventure are guaranteed 
 to send shivers down your spine, these chills are offset by the aggravation caused by terrible 
 controls, dingy scenery that obscures items vital to your quest, and the near-total absence of 
 feedback and hints. A delightfully spooky tale has been run aground due to second-rate execution. 

  This pulpy yarn about an 18th-century investigator looking into a mysterious death on the English 
 island of Dead Reefs is moody and effective, with glimmers of the cult movie  The Wicker Man  (not 
 the Nic Cage version) , the classic survival horror game Alone in the Dark, and the stereotypical 
 gothic romance shining through its shadows. Virtually all of the story has been culled from earlier 
 tales and games, so it resembles more of a patchwork quilt than anything original. This means a 
 lot of clichs like a haunted mansion with secret passages, a ghost that seems to be trying to 
 tell you something, a mysterious curse involving pirates, a visionary witch who brews potions in 
 a bubbling cauldron, and even dark family secrets best left buried. Still, this is a reasonably 
 inspired rip-off that doesn't creak (too much) under the weight of its borrowing. About the only 
 lame aspect of the story is the almost certainly intentional resemblance between protagonist Sir 
 Amadey Finvinerro and the ridiculous fop played by Johnny Depp in the 1999 crime against cinema 
 known as  Sleepy Hollow.   

           Gazing into the gloom establishes a sinister air, but it also makes it virtually impossible 
 to see many objects needed to solve puzzles.      

  All of the sinister stuff is further accentuated by visuals and sound that really up the tension. 
 Although the 3D visuals aren't cutting edge, and most settings are a little barren when it comes 
 to added background details like furniture, lighting and shadow effects set a great gloomy tone. 
 First-rate animation and art provide some lifelike characters as well. Everyone you meet has a 
 slightly quirky look that builds on the strange atmosphere that envelops the island of Dead Reefs. 
 Only the camera system is a drawback, as it provides cinematic drama at the expense of playability. 
 Angles switch so often and in such an abrupt fashion that you frequently get disoriented. Music 
 and sound effects add menace. The plucky score is a fine accompaniment to your explorations, as 
 are understated atmospheric noises like crashing waves, seagulls, and various haunted-house creaks 
 and groans. Dialogue is merely average. The voice acting is about what you'd expect, and maybe 
 even a little better than the norm when you consider that the first language spoken at developer 
 Streko is Russian. But all of the lines are awfully brief, which causes problems when trying to 
 work out puzzle solutions.  

  So, Dead Reefs sure does a great job of setting up story and mood. Shame about the gameplay. For 
 starters, the interface is atrocious. Even though the game is rendered in full 3D, you're stuck 
 moving around in the third-person with an archaic keyboard-only system reminiscent of the first 
 Resident Evil games. Sleuth Finvinerro rotates and jerks forward more like a tank than a human 
 being. There isn't any precision in his movements, either; he seems to instantly lurch from a standing 
 position to a run. As the doorways and various hot spots in the game are generally fairly small, 
 this forces you to tap-tap-tap your way into position a lot of the time and carefully retrace your 
 steps in rooms and corridors to see what you might have missed the first time through. The interface 
 is a constant annoyance here. At least the arrow keys that control talking, interacting with the 
 environment, and accessing your inventory work reasonably well (though even they seem clumsy when 
 it comes to combining objects) .  

  Puzzle structure makes things even worse. There is virtually no feedback given when exploring, 
 which leaves you in the dark when checking out desks, chests, clocks, and the other repositories 
 of secrets usually found in adventure games. You'll walk up to a desk, for example, and all Finvinerro 
 will say is something like, "A bureau," or will give a meaningless description that amounts to, 
 "Hmm, a bunch of stuff." You have to actually use the hand icon to pick up objects to discover 
 what may or may not be present, as you generally can't see items like keys. Important objects are 
 frequently hidden in the scenery as well. Very little in the game is highlighted, and every scene 
 is shrouded in shadows. Going into the limited first-person view available helps locate points 
 of interest when stuck, but you still need to conduct careful pixel hunts and watch for icons to 
 show up indicating that you can look at or interact with something.  

           What would a gothic story be without a ghost beckoning you to solve its mysteries?    
   

  The sad part of all of this is that the puzzles in the game are actually pretty good -- you just 
 aren't given enough quality information to solve them. There is a good blend of object-combo challenges 
 and set-piece puzzles like hitting the right notes on a piano (gee, never seen that one before) , 
 arranging runes, solving a fishy problem posed by a little kid, and so forth. The game never falls 
 into a routine where you're eternally collecting objects in a de facto scavenger hunt, or solving 
 one drab logic puzzle after another. Still, good luck finishing this one without a walk-through. 

  You can't exactly say that Dead Reefs arrives DOA, but the game is a waste of a lot of potential. 
 This is a solid spook story coupled with beautiful visuals and a perfectly peculiar musical score. 
 If the developer had just laid these elements atop the foundation of a proper interface and added 
 some visual clues and feedback to help with puzzle-solving, it would have had one excellent adventure 
 on its hands. Instead, it's got something of a mess -- a sometimes captivating mess that makes you 
 wonder what could have been, but a mess nonetheless.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  Good parts:
  
  - The atmosphere is heavy and creepy and is exactly what you can expect from a XVIII century foggy 
 british island - decent looking graphics
  - some good puzzles, but few - are related with the game's action
  - good soundtrack Bad parts:
 
  
  - the game lacks something to be a really great adventure game - maybe the pacing, maybe the suspense 
 is not well dosed, or the action lacks dynamism - some minor graphical glitches
  - some puzzles are bad realized (the one with the pigeons, for example) - a certain felling of 
 low production values - characters and dialogs are forgettable - the action is interesting until 
 a certain point, then it became supernatural (of course!) and I have seen this in too many games, 
 this is becoming very dull and annoying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  It has been a long time since a decent adventure game came out, and Dead Reefs fits the part 
 quite nicely, as long as you focus on the puzzles and not on the gameplay or controls. Its not 
 the first time an adventure game does not support the use of a mouse and, like most of them, its 
 take a while to get used to the keyboard-only interface. Other then that its a smooth sailing 
 through the game, hitting ruff waters only towards the end, when the camera starts acting up; there 
 were times I actually got motion-sick because the whole game gets out of focus when the camera 
 moves.
  
  Our story begins, as so many other great stories, with a murder. Sir Amadey Finvinerro is send 
 to the island of Dead Reefs to solve said murder and bring the culprit to justice. After speaking 
 with the local authorities and a little investigating the islands grim history is revealed, piece 
 by piece, as the murder victims list keeps on growing.
  The Island itself isnt big, and you can get around pretty easily once you acquire a map, which 
 allows you to jump of specific, highlighted locations. Unlike other adventure game, Dead Reefs 
 focus more on the puzzles then on the dialog. Dont worry, the dialog is still abundant, you get 
 most of the clues through dialog, but to actually progress through the game you have to solve various 
 puzzles, being logic based (figuring out the right order of symbols) or inventory based (scaring 
 the grave keeper with a hand made demon) . You never have to do the same type of puzzle twice, so 
 there is always something fresh and challenging right around the corner.
  
  The characters in the Dead Reefs and not as life-like as youll expect from a new, 2007 released 
 game. Most of the models are, lacking better words, ugly and even slightly disfigured. Most of 
 them look like actual people, but some characters look more like a caricature then anything human.
 
  The voices are equally as bad. There is only one well voiced character in the whole game, and 
 you speak to her only twice throughout the whole game. The protagonists British accent sound fake 
 and his lines get annoying really quick, which makes it very hard to relate to him.
  
  If you are looking for a classic adventure game with lots of puzzles, and can tolerate some controls 
 issues, Dead Reefs can be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  When I first clicked the icon on my desktop to start this game, my expectations were high. Investigating 
 a murder on the sinister island of Dead Reefs? A Curse? A Witch? Necromancers? This plot seems 
 great!
  
  At first glance, you see the visual side of the game delivers... Great water effects, scenarios 
 fully transmitting the pirate-like depressive mood of a cursed island, characters' detailed clothing 
 and faces...
  
  Then, when all things look well, you hear the main character, Amadeu Finvinero (quite possibly 
 the worst name ever to be given to a hero) , and his calm, soothing voice. Every single action he 
 takes, whether intimidating a suspect, or simply being surprised at some evidence, he comments 
 with the same tone of voice. He seems almost pleased at what he says, no matter how grim the issue 
 may be. Though, as a whole, the voice acting is not that bad, as the secondary characters' voices 
 are well made, their rough accents further immersing the player on the 18th century atmosphere 
 of the island. The overall sound effects are well made, both in background music (a sinister tune, 
 that eventually becomes quite repetitive) and environmental effects (everything you touch sounds 
 damp and rotten, much like a pirate island) .
  
  Some claim the keyboard-only controls are a problem. At first they are somewhat confusing, but 
 quite frankly it's not something adventure gamers have never seen before. If you've played Broken 
 Sword 3 on the PS2 you'll know what I'm talking about. Grim Fandango (adventure classic) and Monkey 
 Island 4 have also used similar controls, the only significant difference being in the arrow-based 
 interactive options (up for talk, left for seeing, right for action, down for inventory) , but after 
 a while, you get used to it, and it even makes it easier for you to play. Agreed, cameras are often 
 a problem, but that's too little a fault to blast the game on it.
  
  If you're into puzzle solving, this game may very well be what you were looking for. Dead Reefs 
 varies from simple matchstick puzzles, to complicated riddles you must decipher in order to figure 
 out how to advance in the game. Finding items rarely became a problem, and the good old 'try everything, 
 look everywhere' adventure gamers are so familiar with will solve at least half the puzzles in 
 the game.
  
  But then comes Dead Reef's greatest flaw: The plot.
  
  Remember when I said my expectations were high? Well, it ends there. Throughout the entire game 
 you gather clues about a Necromantic cult, witchery, murder, magic, demons, everything that would 
 make a 'fair adventure game' into a 'great adventure game'. Unfortunately, the plot touches ever 
 so slightly on those subjects, leaving a great 'And then?' feeling on the player that carries out 
 until the end of the game. A storyline that was supposed to immerse you into a sinister feeling 
 with logical conclusions coming out of every puzzle fails to make you feel anything. A sense of 
 danger everywhere? Nope. The feeling of satisfaction after solving a puzzle and revealing an important 
 story element? Nope. All in all, the plot of Dead Reefs feels like filling for a sequence of puzzles, 
 and nothing seems there to 'stick' them together.
  
  Overall, if your experience with adventure gaming is limited to ''Monkey Island/Sam and Max/Day 
 of the Tentacle type of games, Dead Reefs will provide an interesting change of style. If you have 
 played more 'adult' games, as the Gabriel Knight series, Dead Reefs comes as a disappointment. 
 Truly analyzing it, it's a bridge between the two. Liked the sinister 'plot'? How about playing 
 'The Beast Within'? Liked a lighter plot? How about trying 'Sam and Max'?
  
  Dead Reefs has something for everyone. Unfortunately it's not enough to fully please those players 
 on its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottAdams
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, the game is a typical adventure-style game. Walk around. Talk to people. Pick things up. 
 THE GOOD:
  
  1.) The graphics are excellent. 2.) The mood is somewhat creepy and well done.
  3.) The voice 
 acting is surprisingly good.
  
  THE NOT-SO-GOOD:
  
  1.) The controls are very difficult to use. There are not many buttons needed, but walking and 
 interacting can be very confusing and eventually frustrating.
  2.) The linear storyline -- which is typical in most adventure games -- is frustrating. You spend 
 much time walking back and forth talking to people again and again. If you overlook one thing in 
 a huge room, you may stall the whole storyline. For example: Miss one line of conversation with 
 one character and the door ro unlock the next room will never unlock. BUT: Which character was 
 it? You get to try them all! Very displeasing.
  
  So, all-in-all, not worth more than maybe $15. -- just to see the graphics and story. I suggest 
 finding a nice walkthrough, and just strolling through the story. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
