-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Deal or No Deal
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/dealornodeal/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Howie Mandel is in it.
 It's got the style and pacing of the show down pat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Howie Mandel is in it.
 Once you've played through the TV game a couple of times, the novelty has disappeared.
 Minigames are pathetically bad.
 Multiplayer doesn't add much to the overall impression.
 The people in the game look kind of mutated.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.1
Critic Score: 2.5, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 110 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Genre: Trivia / Game Show
Date:     Nov 6, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Take this deal and you'll be out $20 and minutes of your life you'll never get back. 

  Deal or No Deal presents a bit of a conundrum. Yes, it's a fairly accurate PC-game rendition of 
 the uberpopular NBC game show starring Mr.  St. Elsewhere  himself, Howie Mandel, and yes, it is 
 a budget-priced game. Fans of the game show are likely to squeal with delight at the prospect of 
 being able to play their favorite game at home -- but before you run out and drop a twin on this 
 one, stop and think. Think to yourself, why? Why pay for a Deal or No Deal game, when dozens of 
 free flash games with the same formula exist (on NBC's Web site, at that) ? Is it for the cheap, 
 lousy minigames included? Is it for the promise of multiplayer action? Is it because you're hopelessly 
 in love with Howie Mandel's soul patch? Ponder these questions as we delve deeper into the enigma 
 that is the value of owning Deal or No Deal.  

          All those failed modeling careers...     

  Deal or No Deal offers the exact game you've 
 probably seen on TV numerous times. In this, the world's most skill-free game show, contestants 
 are offered 26 metal briefcases, each containing a dollar amount. You start the show by picking 
 one, and that one becomes your case. Through of series of rounds, you then begin selecting the 
 other cases on the board. The idea is to try to eliminate all the low amounts currently displayed 
 (though the high amounts tend to disappear as well) . At the end of each round, a mysterious "banker," 
 who sits in a dark room staring at a computer screen, offers you an amount of money (seemingly 
 based on your play style, and the aggregate average of the amounts still left on the board) to 
 buy your case. From there, it's, "Deal, or no deal?" Get it? Good. This PC game offers precisely 
 the same game formula, but without the hope of winning real money. Perhaps the one advantage is 
 that this game offers the same pacing of the show, as well as many of Mandel's trademark lines 
 (though not all of them, and the dialogue tends to start repeating after just a few plays) , but 
 apart from those bells and whistles, there's not much on offer here to set the game apart from 
 the many, many freeware versions of Deal or No Deal that exist all over the Internet. Why buy the 
 cow when the milk is free just about everywhere?  

  Hopefully, it isn't for the "bonus features." Multiplayer and minigames are also offered in this 
 package, and neither are very good. Minigames consist of little more than a cheap slider puzzle, 
 a memory game, and a three-card monte variant. None of them are fun for more than a single play. 
 The multiplayer is perhaps the most intriguing option, since it futzes with the main game formula 
 a bit and has you and another player trading off turns, trying to make the best deal possible. 
 There's also a "family-friendly" version of the game, where players can create custom prizes. Some 
 of the default options include household chores and tasks for new parents (changing diapers, feedings, 
 and such) . While this might work for the most boring people alive, the rest of you can opt to create 
 your own prizes. Perhaps those with more active imaginations (or, at the very least, filthier minds) 
 can create more-sordid prizes with their significant other (s) . Clearly, this is the most useful 
 function the game has to offer.  

  But is that enough to make Deal or No Deal worth paying for? Hardly. Sure, it's amusing for the 
 first one or two plays, and maybe there's a bit of devious amusement to be had with the custom 
 prize mode, but the fact remains that the necessity of owning a Deal or No Deal game just isn't 
 there. There isn't even that level of trivial skill involved that you tend to get with most game 
 show games, because there's no trivial knowledge required. There's no skill required at all! You're 
 just picking random numbers and hoping for the best. It's all well and good to watch on TV when 
 there's real money involved, and there's nothing wrong with playing something like this for free 
 on the Internet. But actually going to the trouble of paying for a fake-money version of it? That's 
 a poor deal any way you slice it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  The graphics well #1 The models look like plastic, #2 The Models don't look real, #2 When you open 
 a high amount in the case like 750,000$ the model just grins and I'm very offended of that because 
 when you open a high amount like that the model should not grin. And the sound effect's: #1 when 
 you open a high amount like the million when the crowd goes "AAaaaaaaaawwwwww" it sounds like a 
 chain saw. So this game puts you in the game and when you play it it's so fun to play. I would 
 have to say this is the game for the whole millennium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yman173
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 31, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This isnt the kind of game that youre going to spend hours playing, nor is it going to stretch 
 your mind by any means. But, if you like the game show and always wondered what it would be like 
 to actually be in the hotseat, its a good play! Plus, if you just have a little time to kill and 
 want to play something that will ease the boredom of your day, this makes for the perfect diversion.
 
  
  It is what it is... not a super-terrific-awesome-must have game. But a fun little slice of diversion 
 that proves its not quite as easy to win the big prize as it may look when you watch the TV show. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Every great TV show, game show, movie, even a toy gets his own game. There are also the games that 
 become a TV series tough sadly they dont end up being so good like the games. In this case we 
 are talking about a game show where you can earn a lot of money and its none other than Deal or 
 No Deal the game show that has everybody thinking and screaming all day. So just how well does 
 the PC game adapt the show, it will obviously be not the same because you will not receive the 
 money because its a game but does it adapt the rest of the show nicely? Keep reading and find 
 out.
  
  In deal or no deal the goal is to choose first a case from numbers 1 to 26 in which the models 
 will be holding the cases. You have to choose a case that you think there its a lot of money in 
 it then hold it. After that you will start opening 6 cases from the models and you will see amount 
 of money disappearing and you can start thinking what could be in youre case. After those 6 cases 
 the banker will call you. He wants to buy you the case you have for the most little money has possible. 
 Depending on the amounts of money you uncovered on the cases you open the certain amount of money 
 the banker will offer you. If you choose Deal you take the money the banker offered you but if 
 you choose no deal you continue playing but the amount of cases you have to open drops to 1 every 
 turn meaning that next you will open 5 cases.
  
  It can be pretty confusing at first and it can also be understood better in visuals but you get 
 an idea. The game is more of a matter of luck, risks and a lot of thinking. Now the game itself 
 in terms of the gameplay its quick and easy to play. Its all using the mouse to select the cases 
 you want to open, decide deal or no deal and thats about it. Technically you will spend lots of 
 time looking at the ladies, and I didnt say that was a bad thing. Besides the normal gameplay 
 you also have the option to customize the prices. Instead of money make it prices and the 2nd player 
 can be the banker and decide what prize to offer you. This is truly a nice family fun feature.
 
  
  The most useless feature however its the helpers. They spend time of making these many different 
 type of shadows of different style of people to make them has youre helpers. The reason that its 
 pointless its because they repeat sometimes the same dialogue and also sometimes just say random 
 stuff. I know that the point was to make it funny, yet I think they should just ignore the idea 
 and never put them because they really dont do anything more fun on the gameplay.
  
  The most important thing in these game shows adaptations is the graphics. Why? Because you have 
 to cover just about every detail of the show in order it to make it feel just has exciting like 
 the game show. In deal or no deal they did a pretty great adaptation of the feeling of the show 
 with Howie Mandel saying all the things he always says on the game show. You get the models which 
 look pretty nice and change their clothes every time you play, of course eventually they will repeat 
 clothes later on. The phone will appear ringing; they will show the banker thinking and when he 
 is seeing that you are winning you can see him hitting himself which is really funny to see.
  
  That being said graphically it still has a fair amount of problems. First of all and most notable 
 is the fact that some models have the same face has others like if they had a clone and not to 
 mention also the hair. And to be fairly honest the models here dont look so sexy in this game 
 they dont look real. Another concern is when you end the game. The crowd always appears applauding 
 no matter what you win and I think if you win 1,000,000 they should make a bigger celebration not 
 just another ordinary one. Those issues are small but still can affect a bit the feeling of the 
 game.
  
  In terms of the audio the soundtrack is exactly like the TV show. The nice dance song with the 
 models, the slow thinking song when you have to decide which case to open, the sound of everyone 
 happy you got a low number of money and of course the sad sound of opening a high number of money. 
 Howie Mandels voice is great yet he repeats stuff so much. These lines will probably get on youre 
 nerves: Hello Banker, That wasnt great but not horrible. This probably happens with this type 
 of games a lot but still more lines would have been nice at least different lines just like the 
 ladies have different clothes.
  
  This game also features a pair of mini-games that are pretty simple and more of the usual stuff 
 you can find on the internet. One of them its a memory match game that has you opening cases that 
 have pictures of the models and you have to find the same picture. Another one its finding where 
 the 1,000,000 is in which 4 cases will be moving around and you need to pay attention to the one 
 that has the 1,000,000. The last one its a jigsaw puzzle where you move the pieces to the empty 
 space. The other featured mentioned before its putting your own prizes and play on both normal 
 game or prizes game you can play has 2 players, one will be the person playing and the other the 
 banker. There is also another one with both players being the person playing and you have to open 
 a case and then you will get an offer and so on. Whoever did the biggest deal wins. Its a bit 
 of confusing and its just better taking turns in the normal TV game.
  
  Overall Deal or No Deal adapts nicely the game show from TV with all that excitement. It also offers 
 a pair of other type of games but they just feel more like putted in because there is no depth 
 to them. It has a few errors here and there through the adaptation. Yet Deal or No Deal for the 
 PC is a must buy for any fan out there of the TV series it adapts everything nicely and its on 
 a great price. Plus those that dont have a computer with good capabilities of playing games there 
 is also a DVD version on sale that its the same thing but without all the extras, only the normal 
 game to play with 1 or 2 players. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
