-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Death Track: Resurrection
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/deathtrackresurrection/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tracks are well designed.
 The car combat can be chaotic fun.
 Good sense of speed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No multiplayer of any kind.
 Too much frustrating randomness.
 Production values are behind the curve.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 16, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.1, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 59 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Sky Fallen
Genre: Car Combat
Date:     Mar 31, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This car combat racing game provides some high speed fun, but numerous frustrations and a lack of 
 online play put the brakes on. 

  You've probably wished for a forgotten game franchise to be brought back from the dead. Chances 
 are, however, that the Death Track series of PC car combat games was not on your list of nominees. 
 Yet as unfamiliar as you may be with those racers, there's something to be said for Death Track: 
 Resurrection's simple brand of motorway mayhem. Nevertheless, while the game can be fun in spurts, 
 its budget roots are obvious: there's no multiplayer, the production values are inconsistent, and 
 some small but glaring flaws hinder the enjoyment. The game offers some light entertainment, but 
 it's not a strong argument for the series' return.  

  One thing Death Track: Resurrection does well is nail its postapocalyptic vision. You'll race through 
 the streets of a number of real-world cities, though you'll discover that in the future, Paris 
 is, literally, burning. The courses are designed well and are presented with a nice sci-fi flair, 
 and you'll glimpse familiar landmarks as you zoom and battle through them. When you're in top form, 
 the game delivers a good sense of speed, which enhances the occasional burst of chaos. Yet Resurrection 
 isn't visually up to date: vehicles don't exhibit a lot of detail, explosions look terrible, and 
 the reddish brown haze of a few environments makes them look washed out and somewhat unpleasant. 
 Settings like Tokyo and New York, on the other hand, look appealing and provide glitzy backdrops 
 for all the vehicular violence. The pulsing but inoffensive soundtrack contributes to the futuristic 
 ambience as well, though the song that plays in the menu screens is not easy on the ears.  

  There are several ways to tackle these tracks, most notably in Scenario mode, which presents 
 an absurd but easily dismissed story about murdered tournament drivers. The dryly dubbed live-action 
 newscast is an unintentionally campy hoot, however, so you may want to follow along for the occasional 
 giggle. It's also the best way to introduce yourself to the car combat at Resurrection's center, 
 though some slightly awkward keyboard and mouse controls will inspire you to plug in (and configure) 
 a controller first. Your vehicle is equipped with primary, secondary, and rear weaponry, and you'll 
 need to take down your competitors while chasing them around the track. Courses offer multiple 
 routes, and the slick sensation of speed can make the game quite fun at times. The potential for 
 madness is further enhanced by the ability to take aim at certain environmental structures and 
 other objects, like blimps. Should you take a building down, a slow-motion cutaway may dramatize 
 the event, or the destruction may be depicted in a window on the right side of your screen.  

 
  Resurrection loves these bits of drama, perhaps a bit too much for comfort. Hitting a ramp generally 
 causes time to slow and the camera to pan about with cinematic spectacle. It's cool at first, but 
 when it interferes with your ability to adjust your landing or grab a power-up floating in the 
 air, this bit of design hubris is more annoying than exciting. In fact, grabbing a power-up is 
 often a pain, since some of them jump around or sway to and fro. This isn't too problematic for 
 speed and repair enhancements, but when you're low on ammo and desperately need that pickup, this 
 kind of randomness can be frustrating. Other aspects of the game feel similarly left to chance. 
 For example, vehicle respawns are handled poorly. There's practically no safety period once a vehicle 
 reappears, so you could crash into an enemy that spawns directly in front of you, or you might 
 respawn directly behind a divider. These and other missteps (what's with the laser-spewing hoverbots?) 
 mean that no matter how well you drive or battle, matters of chance still decide the outcome more 
 often than they should. If Resurrection offered more forgiving finishing conditions, the randomness 
 would be easier to stomach, but in Scenario mode, you need to finish at least in second place to 
 reap any monetary rewards and advance -- and in other modes, you must be the winner.  

           It's Istanbul, not Constantinople.      

  Earning that dough is important, because 
 you'll be able to beat the story only if your vehicle is properly upgraded. There aren't a whole 
 lot of choices, but the different weapons and cars provide a bit of variety. To pad your pocketbook 
 (or just to mix things up) , you can race in Tournament mode, enter a one-off race, or compete in 
 drag races. More interesting is Challenge mode, in which you must complete a series of objectives, 
 such as destroying a certain number of opponents in a particular lap or finishing a lap within 
 a certain time period. Unfortunately, you won't find any kind of multiplayer mode, which is a big 
 blow to a game that begs for human competition. Without online play, Resurrection simply doesn't 
 offer much replay value; its single-player offerings are sometimes fun but are too unoriginal and 
 short-lived to keep you coming back for long.  

  Nevertheless, Death Track: Resurrection's very low discount price makes it worth considering for 
 a day's worth of amusement. The tracks are put together well, and the game delivers the occasional 
 rush. The small frustrations, however, can really add up, and there isn't enough content here to 
 help offset them.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nosferatuu666
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 2:17 am PT
Review:  So, i picked this game up with the idea of picking up a game that could entertain me for a while 
 and than maybe give as a present to a friend or something, my expectations weren't all that high, 
 though i must say, that friend can buy his own copy, im keeping this one for sure!
  
  the game is very much alive, you drive to cities you've seen on tv or maybe even been to, you'll 
 see all the buildings you love and some which are less known yet still do exist, everywhere you 
 look you see the result of the 3rd world war and its amazing how they done it, making you able 
 to destroy some of the buildings yourself is very amuzing, when you destroy a building, you'll 
 get to see how the building collapses in a nice cinematic at the edge of your screen so you can 
 keep on driving, or the game pauses and lets you see it in full view, depending on the building. 
 The cinematic at the edge of the screen can be very distracting cuz its very well done and makes 
 you look at that instead of the road,
  
  the controlls are anoying at best, so i do recommend you change them as soon as you know all the 
 options, i usualy use my right hand to steer with the arrow keys and the left hand to shoot / choose 
 weapons / nitro boost / etc, however, you can also use the mouse to shoot... which would make me 
 switch my left hand to the arrow keys, and my right hand to the mouse, leaving me no option to 
 change weapons anymore cuz that was the left hands job...
  though this isn't all that bad, for one, you can change the controlls yourself so no real harm 
 is done, besides, the auto-aim is a great job, making the mouse useless anyway, you can choose 
 which targets you would rather fire upon, cars or buildings, (buildings include small generators 
 used to unlock some shortcuts) with just the press of a button, the auto-aim takes half a second 
 to a second orso to find its target, which can be a bit anoying at times, but once he has a target, 
 it won't let it go unless its out of reach
  
  storyline, normaly this is a small detail not really worth paying attention to, however, this storyline 
 actualy makes you curious on whats going on, and the result of what you see in the clips before 
 and after a scenario-race is actualy seen in on the road (less and less drivers, whom disapear 
 under suspicious cauzes)
  
  weapons, the weapons are simple, yet elegant, you have a choice of 3 primary weapons, 2 secundary 
 and 2 rear, the primary weapons are machine-gun, lazers and energy-shooting-thingies, where the 
 machine gun is the standard, with normal damage, normal accuracy and normal ammo, the lazer has 
 low damage normal accuracy and unlimited ammo, and the energy-thingy has high damage, low accuracy 
 and not to much ammo,
  as secundary weapons you have rockets and tracking robot-thingies, rockets have more ammo but aren't 
 to great when it comes to tracking enemies, when it does it gives a nice blow though, the tracker 
 robots are almost a certain hit and actualy do a nice amount of damage, but you only have few of 
 them, oh, they supposed to shoot at other enemies who come to close to it, haven't noticed it though,
 
  and as rear weapons you have mines and spikes, mines blow up and spikes make the car suddenly 
 go left or right for a second (in an attempt to make it crash or something) but do no damage themself,
 
  like i said, not to much specials going on, but it works like a charm, things are balanced and 
 the best weapons are usualy what you feel most comfy with,
  of all the weapons are 4 different versions, each getting better and better, which is why you need 
 to unlock them
  
  downsides,
  
  well, at the start of a game, you only have a single car, and all the basics of weapons and upgrades, 
 leaving you with little choice on what to pick, and forcing you to do the story-mode (called scenario) 
 or tournaments, to unlock more stuff and earn money to buy them. the storyline is done nicely so 
 it isn't that bad you need to do it, i just wish it would be a bit easier,
  when somebody is behind you and you have no mines or spikes, your basicly screwed and the best 
 thing you can do is let him pass and blow his ass up before he blows yours off, as most primary 
 weapons do a great job on tracking the enemy, plus side though, if you can evade the mines / spikes 
 and have plenty of ammo in your primary weapon, your almost sure to take the opponent down
  
  overall,
  
  if you like blowing ppl and buildings up while racing in ruins of famous cities, 
 this game is a must. This game works great on low-end computers like my own and i'm still able 
 to enjoy the cinematics which this game has plenty off, 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
