-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Deathtrap Dungeon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deathtrapdungeon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  4, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.5, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 66 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Asylum Studios
Genre: Action
Date:     Jul 31, 1998
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you didn't care for Tomb Raider's third-person perspective and camera angles then Deathtrap Dungeon 
 will probably leave you cold. 

 Thanks to a racy ad campaign featuring a whip-wielding dominatrix in a skimpy leather outfit and 
 sporting some wicked thigh boots, Eidos Interactive managed to get a whole lot of action fans revved 
 up for - or at least aware of - the imminent release of Deathtrap Dungeon. Of course, such a strategy 
 can backfire: A lot of publicity often leads to unrealistic expectations. But with the exception 
 of online play, Deathtrap Dungeon delivers nearly everything that Eidos promised.  

 Whether or not that's a good thing is a matter of taste. Deathtrap Dungeon follows the Tomb Raider 
 formula, and if you didn't care for its third-person perspective and camera angles then Deathtrap 
 Dungeon will probably leave you cold.  

 Don't take that to mean that Deathtrap Dungeon is simply Tomb Raider with a fantasy veneer, though. 
 The graphics are superior, ranged and handheld weapons make for more intense combat, the addition 
 of spells adds depth to play, and the number of enemies - the ads claim there are more than 50 
 - is almost mind-boggling.  

 Based on the Fighting Fantasy books by Ian Livingstone, Deathtrap Dungeon's premise is about as 
 simple as it gets: Playing as the female warrior Red Lotus or the hulking ChainDog, you've got 
 to fight your way through a dungeon chock-full of critters ranging from pesky imps to rock creatures, 
 demons, killer bees, snake women - the list goes on and on. And those aren't the only things that 
 stand between you and survival; countless booby traps can spell instant death just as you think 
 you've made it to safety.  

 Given the fantasy setting, Eidos could easily have made Deathtrap Dungeon a gloom-and-doom affair, 
 but a host of humorous touches brings some welcome levity to the action. Those imps I mentioned 
 earlier snort and giggle a lot like Beavis (of Beavis &amp; Butthead fame) ; clowns laugh as they 
 wait for you to advance and fight; some enemies even slap their hands under their armpits and make 
 the classic noise schoolchildren have known and loved for years.   

 There are a few puzzles thrown into the mix, but nearly all involve pulling levers and finding keys. 
 It feels as if they were added out of obligation rather than to make gameplay more immersive or 
 exciting. The real puzzles are the levels themselves - huge, complex mazes that'll have you scratching 
 your head trying to figure out where you should go next. There's a nifty "chalk mark" feature that 
 can help you keep your bearing, but if that's not enough there are several spots on the Net that 
 have fairly detailed maps to get you back on track.  

 Mastering the weapons and magic system is a little confusing at first - you have to hit a function 
 key then a number key to determine which weapons and spells are active - but given all the stuff 
 you're dealing with there's probably no other way it could have been done. And once you memorize 
 which number to use for each weapon, you can almost switch on the fly.  

 Yes, it's true that Eidos enhanced nearly every facet of Tomb Raider, but unfortunately for many 
 fans there was one issue it didn't address: character control. The lack of improved control is 
 mysterious, considering that it was probably the single biggest complaint lodged against Tomb Raider, 
 but what's even stranger is that Deathtrap Dungeon might be even more aggravating than its predecessor. 
 Walk into a room with enemies on your right and left, for instance, and frequently you'll start 
 taking a pounding without even being able to see who's dealing out the punishment; try to run down 
 a corridor, and just as you've got up a head of steam, the angle will switch, and you'll find yourself 
 slamming against a wall as you try to figure out the new perspective. Even when you do figure out 
 where the bad guys are, you'll continue to get hit because it takes so long to turn around.  

 
 At first I tried to play using the keyboard, figuring that would provide the finest degree of control 
 over my character - but then I was stunned to learn that I couldn't use the directional arrows 
 on the numeric keypad. Yes, you can assign nearly any key for movement, but the only arrow keys 
 you can use for movement and turning are the four cursor keys to the left of the numeric keypad 
 - and I hate using those because they're all bunched together.  

 Next I tried a mouse, but found that if I didn't center it exactly after turning left or right that 
 I'd invariably jump in one of those directions when I really wanted to jump forward. So I plugged 
 in my trusty Gravis GrIP, and while it made combat much easier I had major problems traveling in 
 a straight line - just like in Tomb Raider. Even more annoying when using the GrIP was the first-person 
 view option, which is supposed to let you look around (but not move) from a Quake-style perspective. 
 When playing with the keyboard, you can look up, down, and left or right - but for some reason 
 you can't use the directional pad to scan the vicinity. Instead, you have to take your hand off 
 the controller and use those damn cursor keys. Considering that this is obviously a direct port 
 of the PlayStation version, this is a sign of some fairly lackadaisical coding.  

 Another sign of laziness is the save-game feature. You can only save at certain spots, and sometimes 
 you need to have gold coins to "pay" for the privilege of saving. Look, this game is very tough 
 even if you don't have a problem with character control, and no one wants to cover the same ground 
 over and over again just because someone didn't bother to take advantage of the PC's capabilities. 

 I'd love to check in with a report on how the game's multiplayer mode stacks up, but unfortunately 
 the shipping version only features play over a LAN - and like most of you, I don't have access 
 to a LAN. It's disappointing that Eidos wasn't able to include at least TCP/IP support - something 
 that DirectPlay should have made easy to implement - but to its credit the game will soon be supported 
 on Mplayer.  

 I've got to give credit to Eidos for pushing the Tomb Raider formula to its limits in Deathtrap 
 Dungeon, and for serious Tomb Raider fans the issue of control is probably a moot point. For many 
 of us, though, all the extra weapons and enemies seems like a case of Eidos not seeing the forest 
 for the trees.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KangLao
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Deathtrap Dungeon is an adventure game where the Warriors chosen ("Chaindog the Barbarian" or "Red 
 Lotus the Amazon") have to fight, hack and slash their way thorugh a dealy dungeon filled with 
 Ugly monsters and deadly traps.
  
  The Hacking and Slashing in this game is great, you can hack the crap out of any monster until 
 they are dismembered bloody piles of body limbs. You can also use Magic spells to burn or tear 
 them them apart.
  There is alot of blood in this game and when a monster is dead, its body dissappears but its hacked 
 off limbs and blood splattered all over the wall stay during gameplay indicating a sense of 'You 
 have been here', you can also use chalk to mark where you have been.
  
  If you play this game for the first time, I can full on guarantee that you will not make it through 
 without being killed... this game is quite tough to get through, but unfolding further makes you 
 wonder either 'when will this level end?' or 'Whats behind that door?'...
  
  I only reccomend this game to Medieval Fantasy lovers of the 1990's, I grew up with this game and 
 it scard me when i was a kid, but I wanted to know what was behind the next door, This game is 
 awesome I rate it 10/10.
  
  Many people hate this game, but I say play it for yourself and see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 28, 2005 7:33 pm PT
Review:  One of the worst games I've ever played in terms of graphics, but the characters, traps and sound 
 effects were highly amusing. Enemies are hilarious, including a reoccurring insane laughing troll 
 that is very fast and sometimes hard to kill when attacking in packs of 3 or more. You have a limited 
 choice of characters to play in this dark comedy; just 2 in fact, the hero or the heroine. There 
 are many weapons to pick up throughout the game, but not as many close combat choices as I would 
 like there to be. Ranged weapons, spells, potions and charms, on the other hand, are plentiful. 
 Ranged weapons, although plentiful, can only be carried one at a time, which causes a lot of tracing 
 back to find them later in the game. Picking up gold pieces and other treasure throughout helps 
 to earn you a greater score but are seemingly useless in terms of gameplay. 
  
  Controls are basic PC controls and accessing menus is a little cumbersome, but still manageable. 
 One good feature about this title is you can cast spells while having a ranged or close combat 
 weapon equipped. It's a big time saver. In-game menus are easy to navigate and simple to understand. 
 Overall, the plot is simple and there aren't any interesting surprises in the game. You are the 
 hero/heroine and must make your way to killing the dragon. There is also a LAN multi-player mode 
 just like in Baldur's Gate II, which adds to the games value. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
