-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: DeathDrome
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deathdrome/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 17, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 5.2, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 23 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Viacom New Media
Developer: Zipper Interactive
Genre: Action
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Try as I might, I could find little fault with DeathDrome beyond its addictive nature. 

 As game reviewers continue to face the glut of 3-D first-person shooters bloating the market each 
 season, some may rue the day Doom or Wolfenstein ever shipped. Nowadays the impulse, I believe, 
 is to find fault with any but the best examples of the genre. Try as I might, I could find little 
 fault with DeathDrome beyond its addictive nature.  

 A heavily armored super bike, some missiles, and a countdown to scrub - this simple scenario is 
 the basis for one of the best games of its kind to arrive on the scene in quite some time. The 
 story is vaguely reminiscent of Stephen King's Running Man: The year is 2057 and you are serving 
 hard time for the odd crime against humanity. Unfortunately for you, a special interest group bent 
 on eradicating the overpopulated superprisons in the name of entertainment is about to disrupt 
 your peaceful existence. You have been selected to compete in the DeathDrome, an arena free-for-all 
 where convicts fight convicts to stay alive. You were not given a choice.  

 As the game begins, you choose from a variety of "Runners," motorcycle-like vehicles (looking like 
 something out of the Japanese animated film, Akira) with different levels of performance in four 
 categories - speed, armor, weapons, and handling. All Runners have their strengths and weaknesses 
 so you'll want to test a few before you settle on a favorite. Runners can jump and all come with 
 two identical basic weapons, lasers and an "electro-barrier" which acts like a traveling wall that 
 you deploy from the rear of the vehicle as you drive - a great alternative to the old oil slick. 
 Beyond those two primary weapons, as with every other first-person shooter I've ever played, secondary 
 weapons and other goodies appear as pick-ups during gameplay.  

 There are five secondary weapons, all creative, my favorite being the "Nitro Ram" which allows you 
 to lock on an opponent and ram him to oblivion if you are within striking range. (Very satisfying.) 
 In addition, there are shields, power-ups, extra life credits, and keys to locked areas lying around 
 the area. The pick-ups represent one of my few gripes about this game. All the weapons and other 
 pick-ups are outlined in the manual and all appear in the first few levels of the game. The designers 
 effectively give everything away too early, leaving us no secret weapons to find and use in the 
 higher levels. Consequently, the skill level of opponents becomes very important as you climb up 
 levels. Thankfully, the program's AI does a good job of dealing with this inevitability.  

 Each arena level has three rounds - all arenas start with rooms one and two wide open, with rooms 
 three and four opening in successive rounds. When a round begins, all the Runners start on a podium 
 in the center of the arena, facing out. When the clock starts, they head for the arena's side rooms 
 in search of better weapons and their first kills. As you go up in levels, the arena rooms become 
 more elaborate and difficult to navigate.  

 Scattered throughout the arena to wreak added havoc are many "fusion towers." These small pyramids, 
 if glowing, will set off a deadly radius blast when struck by a laser or Runner (very similar to 
 the "shockwave" weapon available for Runners) . One trick is to sit back and shoot the towers from 
 afar, killing your hapless opponents. My favorite maneuver, however, is to drive right into one 
 while being chased and jump up at the last second. The blast expands under you and takes out the 
 enemy - you land after the blast and live to seek another kill.  

 The object, not surprisingly, is to rack up a certain number of kills before time runs out. Once 
 you've taken out your quota, simply head back to the start podium and the warden will open the 
 exit. One of the slickest parts of this game occurs when your time runs out. If the clock hits 
 zero, the system begins the "scrub" - a cleaning process that will kill any player in its path. 
 The scrub manifests itself like slow-moving, traveling lightning and converges on the center podium. 
 When you see it coming, you'd better head for the center room - even the computer opponents are 
 smart enough to do that. The real race occurs when you have one kill left and you see the scrub 
 enter the podium room. Nerve-racking doesn't begin to describe it.  

 Perhaps my biggest gripe with this game is its obvious gameplay loophole. In single-player mode, 
 rather than racing to the side rooms in search of secondary weapons, you need only to stay in the 
 main room and gun down your slower-thinking computer opponents. And, as all Runners restart at 
 the center podium, you have an endless supply of fodder - watch that old high score go down in 
 flames. Further, even if you do play the game as it was intended, in single-player mode, you will 
 probably finish the game in an afternoon; I reached level seven (of eight) in my first few hours 
 of play. Clearly though, the most fun to be had with this game, like many other first-person shooters, 
 is in multiplayer mode. DeathDrome may be played with up to eight players over a LAN using IPX 
 or TCP protocol.  

 The rave music soundtrack is, well, rave music. On a positive note, it didn't give me a headache 
 until about the end of the three-hour session. The graphics are outstanding. I was duly impressed 
 by full screen 320x200 before I even knew there were two higher resolution levels. The developers 
 suggest a Pentium P166 for the highest resolution (640x480) and, while it is beautiful, I wouldn't 
 use that resolution with anything less than a P200. This game is so smooth on the lower resolution 
 settings, it seems a crime to trade playability for a few more dots per inch.  

 A bit different and a bit innovative, this 3-D first-person shooter is very well done. Get a copy 
 for the criminal on your holiday gift list - it'll make the hard time just fly by.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game, and it's really addictive. You're a prisoner who's only way to freedom is 
 to compete in the DeathDrome, like being a gladiator in a colosseum. Every round starts out with 
 you and a few others killing each other and once you get a certain kill count, you can leave the 
 arena. If you get killed, you get respawn, but there's a limited amount of respawns. If you fail 
 to meet the kill requirement within the time alotted, the arena starts to close in on your point 
 of insertion with an electricity wall that kills you instantly if you touch it. It will eventually 
 trap you in your insertion point, leaving you nowhere to hide, and you die if you didn't get the 
 kills. This was definitely one of the intense moments of the game, everything is fast paced. The 
 graphics weren't bad for its time, and the weapons offer different ways to kill opponents. There 
 are plenty of mazes to run through, but the enemy AI isn't really out to get you. You may get killed 
 here and there, and they'll definitely come after you if you get too close. Otherwise, they tend 
 to go after each other. There's multiplayer on this thing too I believe, which can make for a few 
 good fights. This isn't really that much of a multiplayer game, and some games that feature multiplayer 
 just doesn' t do well in that department. It's like this, think about you and your buddy who you're 
 going to duke it out with. You both have the same stuff, and the map is flat with no obstacles. 
 It's basically whoever gets the first shot off that wins, it's that kind of thing. There's also 
 a flaw in this game that once discovered, makes it seem like childplay. Think about how you never 
 used those blasters after you got the lightsaber in Jedi Outcast and you'll get a sense of what 
 I mean, except the lightsaber was given to you in the beginning of the game. This was my first 
 Pentium game and even though I played it 10 years ago, it still is fresh in my mind, that's how 
 good this is. Oh yeah, the soundtrack will please fans of techno. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
