-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Death to Spies
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deathtospies/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Realistic game mechanics.
 Incredibly challenging.
 Detailed mission design varies between commando exploits and playing spy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Overly difficult in spots.
 Artificial aspects of the stealth interface get in the way at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.0, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 337 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Haggard Games
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 16, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may not be easy doing sneaky dirty work in the Second World War, but it is more entertaining 
 than you'd expect. 

  Although the name SMERSH sounds like something out of an old  Get Smart!  episode, nobody laughed 
 at this counterespionage organization during the Second World War. Translated into English, this 
 acronym means "Death to spies," which pretty much sums up the no-nonsense nature of this precursor 
 to the Soviet Union's dreaded KGB. The game of the same name from Russian developer Haggard Games 
 doesn't mess around either, presenting some of the grittiest stealth action to hit the sneaker 
 genre since Agent 47 first shaved his head. Open-ended mission objectives, smart level design, 
 and extreme difficulty also add to the realism, proving that developers haven't wrung all of the 
 good game ideas out of WWII quite yet.  

  Gameplay itself isn't as original as the story or setting, however. Even though Death to Spies 
 is the first game to put you in the shoes of a SMERSH counterespionage agent tasked with stamping 
 out Nazis during Hitler's adventures in the USSR, the game is reminiscent of such games as Hitman 
 and Splinter Cell, crossed with the more puzzle-oriented stealth served up in the Commandos series. 
 So even though you creep around in the third person, knocking out bad guys, as well as playing 
 dress-up, you can also check an overhead map that tracks sentry positions and vision cones depicting 
 how far guards can see. If you've played sneaky games in the past, chances are good that this will 
 seem like familiar ground.  

           Sometimes you play as a commando, sometimes you play as a spy. Missions vary between assassinating 
 Nazis and snooping around a hotel to find a traitor.      

  Well, with one big difference: Death to Spies is more true to reality than most of its forebears. 
 The design is packed with grim authenticity even while sticking close enough to the stealth game 
 template to feel just a tad formulaic. Missions feature a lot of par-for-the-course assignments, 
 such as infiltrating a bombed-out town to snatch secret plans, sneaking into a Nazi prison to assassinate 
 a compromised comrade, and blowing up an enemy-held bridge, but these generic missions are spiced 
 up with such noirish escapades as checking into a Moscow hotel to kill an ally selling secrets 
 to the British. All of these locales feature fairly typical office buildings, stone fortresses, 
 military encampments, railyards, and the like. However, each site is elevated above the average 
 by good attention to detail, as well as a graphics engine that does a superb job with lighting 
 and shadow effects (the core visual components of any sneaker) .  

  Most levels are wide open, leaving you free to blaze your own trail to the end goal. In theory, 
 anyhow; in reality, you generally have just a couple of paths to start off with when heading out 
 to each mission objective because there are simply too many guards to make experimentation viable. 
 Although you're skilled at the usual stealth exploits, such as moving silently, cutting throats 
 with a knife, killing quietly with a choke cord or silenced pistol, and disguising yourself to 
 better fit in with the locals, there is so much opposition that you can't freely employ your talents. 
 Sentries typically patrol in pairs, but most corridors feature at least one guard at each end, 
 typically bolstered by another grunt (or three) walking back and forth between them. Even when 
 you're all dolled up in an officer's uniform and able to walk right past enlisted men, you can 
 guarantee that rooms in key locations will always feature at least one or two superior officers 
 who can tell you're an impostor on sight.  

  It all gets a bit ridiculous at times. Many challenges in Death to Spies are insanely difficult. 
 At one point in the third mission, you're tasked with sneaking down a corridor filled with a dozen 
 storm troopers and slipping unseen into a room to silently murder two alert officers, as well as 
 a guard. It can be done, but you've got to time your movements absolutely perfectly to have even 
 a shot at success. Things get even worse later in the game. Mission seven has an objective where 
 you have to kill two senior officers in a room packed with their buddies and a bunch of machine-gun-toting 
 guards. Simply shooting your way through these tough scrapes is virtually impossible too. If you 
 respond to a screwup by going Rambo and trying to kill everyone in sight, you'll get gunned down 
 in moments by the spectacular number of enemy troops on hand to respond to alerts. Unless you're 
 in one of the rare isolated spots on the maps and can take out the bad guys in a few seconds with 
 a silenced pistol, getting identified as an intruder just once means  das vadanya , comrade, so 
 get ready to reload a save.  

  Still, even though this unceasing difficulty cranks up the frustration factor, it never seems like 
 the game is cheating you. While it's a bit cheesy that officers seem to have the ability to see 
 through disguises almost instantaneously, just about everything else is rooted in reality. Guards 
 will spot you if you try to hide in the shadows a few feet away. Strange noises are always investigated. 
 Entire platoons seem to respond whenever shots are fired. An alarm is immediately raised as a result 
 of a body being discovered. You can only carry two weapons, generally a rifle and a pistol of some 
 sort. Every object in the game has weight, so you can't run around with dozens of ammo clips or 
 chloroform bottles. And so on.  

           So I says to Hitler, I says...      

  Not everything feels totally natural, though. Interactions with enemies come off as a bit artificial. 
 Few sound cues are given by guards except for the odd "Schiesse!" or "Was ist los?" and those lines 
 are usually only heard when you've either been spotted or it's too late to avoid being spotted. 
 Most of the time, everything is so silent that all you can generally hear are atmospheric noises, 
 such as a gramophone playing in the distance and the wildly out of place Euro disco that kicks 
 in during combat. Because of this, you rely more on the vision cones displayed on interface amenities, 
 such as the overhead map and a danger bar that appears then fills up when you're on the verge of 
 being detected in your actual surroundings. Seeing as most of the game is so brutal and uncompromising, 
 these issues really stand out. A few more organic touches would be a big help even if it came in 
 the form of cheesy stealth-game conventions like guards muttering "Maybe it was just rats."  

 
  Even with some missteps, Haggard Games accomplishes a lot with Death to Spies. Deeply difficult 
 and absolutely remorseless, this game isn't for the faint of heart. But it is definitely worth 
 the struggle, as long as you've got the patience to appreciate such a rigorous design.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Death To Spies came to us from Russia with love in 2007. Pretty bad time for a stealth-action game 
 financed by the developers' allowance money to hit the market, if I may add. I mean, with stealth 
 beauties such as Splinter Cell series or Metal Gear Solid 3 and 4, what hope of success can this 
 game have? A fool's hope, maybe...
  
  Well, be that as it may, Death To Spies actually turned out to be a lot better than I expected. 
 In fact, it turned out to be surprisingly good! 
  
  When I was a 12-year-old kid, one of the first games that I played on the first PC I ever owned 
 was Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines. And that game still has, and always will have, a special place 
 within my heart. Why am I telling you this? Well, simply because Death To Spies looks, feels and 
 plays just like Commandos, only from a third person perspective. And this time you're not leading 
 a whole team of commandos, but just one man. Apart from that, this game is simply Commandos in 
 3D.
  
  Which is a good thing. In this game, you play as an agent (I forgot what his name was) of SMERSH, 
 a notorious Soviet counter-intelligence service that was in a way a predecessor of Cold War era 
 KGB. The whole game is actually nothing more than a debriefing your character is giving to his 
 comrade general after the war. So expect a lot of boring scenes with two guys sitting in a dark 
 room and talking about what happened on a certain date at the certain place. Remind you of anyone? 
 Hitman, anyone? Well, that wouldn't be so bad if the voice acting wasn't simply horrible. All the 
 "actors" deliver their lines with an emotional expression of reading a grocery store shopping list. 
 I swear, next time I hear such lousy voice acting I will buy a plane ticket, fly myself to the 
 game developers' home town and kill the guy who decided to get his family and friends to read the 
 lines for the game's cutsceenes at the very last minute. Up to this date, this is the worst voice 
 acting I ever heard in a computer game (and I heard A LOT) , and it completely kills the atmosphere, 
 as well as your willingness to hear how the story turns out. 
  
  But that's about as bad as it gets. When you set yourself on a mission, you will truly learn how 
 to appreciate this game. The missions themselves are huge, well-balanced, with a lot of interesting 
 objectives to achieve. I'm not gonna say "challenging", because I'd only be making a fool out of 
 myself. The missions are insanely difficult. Commandos-style difficult. 
  
  I swear, this game hates me! It simply HATES me! 
  
  It's extremely realistic when it comes 
 to historical facts, as well as the number of guards on each map. They rarely patrol alone, often 
 in groups or pairs, always covering each other. There are holes in their lines, of course, and 
 it's up to you to find those holes and exploit them. You have to be very careful not to be seen 
 as you're killing a guard, or disposing of a body. You have to be mindful of how you dispose of 
 him as well. If you want his uniform, you'll have to stun him, or choke him in order not to leave 
 any trace of violence on the uniform, such as blood or bullet holes. You have to be careful not 
 to carry any Russian weapons while in a German uniform, or they'll figure you out. You even have 
 to dispose of your backpack sometimes. It's this kind of realism and attention to details that 
 modern stealth games lack. Unfortunately, some other problems are there to annoy you. Very often 
 your disguise won't even fool the half of enemy guards, only enough to let you find a way through. 
 It's simply stupid that some guards, as well as officers, can recognize you in an instant, even 
 if you're be disguised as an SS general. I know, I know, the game would've been too easy otherwise, 
 but this just about kills the entire realism. I'm sure they could have found a way to make the 
 game challenging without that. A lot of weapons in the game are useless as well, such as sub machine 
 guns. For God's sake, this is a stealth game. All you need is a knife, a choke cord, silenced pistol 
 and a lockpick. Why the heck do you need to carry a sub machine gun on a mission? Every attempt 
 of run 'n' gun will result in a painful death, so I see no point in having one, except as a show-off.
 
  And there's one other thing that nearly made me throw this game out the window - your character 
 is SLOW! He's fast enough when he's walking, sure, but when he's sneaking or carrying a body, he's 
 as slow as a guy from a retirement home in a wheel chair. Makes you wanna shoot him. Honestly... 
 he's supposed to be a highly trained spy, I'm sure he knows how to sneak up on someone, and I'm 
 sure he has enough strength to carry a body a little bit faster than a snail. Especially when there's 
 a guard just waiting to peek around the corner. 
  
  That said, I have pretty much told you all the bad things about this game. The gameplay is great, 
 and the game sucks you in so hard you won't be able to leave it until you finish the mission. And 
 then see what comes next. The sound is good, altou it gave me some troubles. Probably need a patch 
 or something. Or my sound system's busted. Well, never was too good anyway. The graphics are surprisingly 
 nice, and doesn't take an insane hardware power to run it. Unlike Hitman, on whose engine this 
 game was made. The uniforms, the weapons, they are very detailed, environment looks great, and 
 even your opponents are smarter than those in Hitman. Yes, the game is brutal, even frustrating 
 at times, but the atmosphere is so great, the missions are wonderful and the controls are good, 
 and most of the times the game stays on "realistic" side of things. You just have to play it until 
 the end. It lacks replay value, sure, but nobody's perfect. After all, this is a budget-priced 
 title, not some Splinter Cell-style game blockbuster. 
  
  Despite the first negative impressions, I realized this is a game you can truly enjoy. 
  
  
 Death to spies, comrades! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZaKAISER
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  Yeah, Death To Spies is more like SC games In Stealth Environment, and the Walk/Run Controls (Mouse 
 Wheels) and Hitman in Action Controls and Camera View.
  
  But The graphic is totally Amazing, The Lighting ,The Water and The Textures.
  
  But if we 
 want to enter the depth of the game,
  we will find that this game is a very Difficult,
  you can't think you're a in war, when you enter the battle with the soldiers, that's mean you're 
 dead, yes there is no other choices..
  
  And The Ai System sometimes realistic, if we compared with Hitman
  
  In hitman even you are 
 wear the enemy uniform, they will detect you
  
  but here, there a good percantage to stealth out without any problems.
  
  -Wanna some game 
 to make you think about every little action you would make ?
  This is yours 
  --------------
  Finally i can say that if anybody like the hard games
  this one is the best...... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 6, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Death to Spies (DTS) is the story of a Russian spy who is being investigated by Russians to tell 
 what he had done in World War II. The game is based on the spy memories. 
  
  The game is a combination of Commandos and Hitman: Codename 47. Being released in year 2000, Hitman: 
 Codename 47 became a great game and it had some novelties in third person view shooter. Likewise, 
 the Commandos was also a great game in its genre. After seven years, Atari built DTS. The game 
 has no novelty. At least the players who loved Hitman series don't see anything new about DTS.
 
  
  Unlike Hitman, DTS contains many graphic bugs. For example, the guards can detect a dead guy throw 
 a thick wall. Another example is the character looses its calibration and can hit the targets 90 
 degrees from him with just pointing ahead. At least some testing may solve some of these problems 
 before releasing it to the market.
  
  The game story is great but the development is really weak and the game is a total letdown 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImJasonBourne
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  The game is awesome. The only problem are the controls. They are so primitive because you have 
 to chose an option from a pull down menu that makes it really hard to perform something that the 
 stupid computer thinks is the best.
  
  For example, when you stun someone and a there is a door next to it, the computer assumes that 
 you are gonna open the door and not to pick up the body. This is crucial specially if there are 
 guards coming near you and time is being wasted. There are games that are far more advanced in 
 this area because they have actions for each key and not from a dumb pull down menu.
  
  The game is great but IMHO, this pull down action menu ruins all. I hope there is some kind of 
 patch for this game because is highly addictive. Most of us like versitility in a game but this 
 one makes moving around with assumed actions worse than you can imagine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXenolith
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 8, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  - Great environment
  - Above average graphics
  - Nice ambient sounds
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Unrealistic AI
  - Ridiculous difficulty
  - Awkward dubbing
  - It is 
 a Hitman clone
  - Irritatingly slow character
  
  Play it if:
  
  - You like saving and reloading games hundreds of times
  - You like flawed game mechanics
  
 - You like bad interfaces
  - You choose difficulty instead of entertainment
  - You like slightly open ended approaches to finishing a mission
  - You expect your character 
 to move like a snail
  - You like suspension of logic
  - You enjoy mediocre plots
  
  Don't play it if:
  
  - You are spoiled by Splinter Cell, Thief, and Hitman
  - You expect 
 reasonable realism where there should be
  - You expect an agile, elite spy
  - You hate unrealistic weapon recoil
  - You like going Rambo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _alberto_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  I bet that most of the users who wrote reviews on this game didn't play it for more than one hour. 
 Well, that's wrong. You have to finish at least 3 missions to realize how great this game is. Most 
 of the games in these days look like this: amazing graphics, effects, explosions, and so on, aim, 
 shoot, kill, next, next, next... In two days the game is over. Of course there are exceptions, 
 thanks God. 
  In Death to Spies you have to USE YOUR HEAD and think every move you want to make. It is like Hitman, 
 but the story is in WWII and it has some improvements. You have to investigate, look everywhere 
 you can, watch and learn what the enemies do and what are their patrol routes (by the way, sometimes 
 they stop at random, so if you plan to sneak in a particular moment you will have a surprise) and 
 plan your actions. You can take the enemies' clothes but only if you knocked them down. Killing 
 them will not let you do that. The weapons are the one used in WWII - grenades, mines, dynamites, 
 pistols, rifles, machine guns and sniper rifles. At the beginning of every mission you can choose 
 every weapon you want. Choosing the main weapon is useless (except the very first part of the mission) 
 because if you take a german uniform you can't wear a russian weapon for example. All i needed 
 was the knife, the pistol with suppressor and the choke cord.
  The action and the story are very good and captivating. You have a very large number of possibilities 
 to achieve your goals and i think this is what makes this game so good. The graphic is ok (it uses 
 the Hitman engine) but it leaves room for more. But if feels and looks more realistic than Hitman. 
 
  As a big fan of Hitman series, i would go for a 9, but the graphic doesn't let me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caleb367
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Others already pointed out similarities between DtS and the Hitman series, however, let me add 
 that this has none of the absurdities of the latter. Graphics also deserve praise, as lately it's 
 very hard to find a decent-looking game which doesn't need a quad-core and a super-video card to 
 boot. 
  Other than getting the work done and being nice to look at, this game's graphics are also surprisingly 
 detailed, with historically accurate uniforms (example: in one mission, American officers wear 
 a Screaming Eagles patch on the shoulder... SS have a different uniform from militia, Wehrmacht 
 and Luftwaffe soldiers... and so on) and decor for the setting (however it lacks swastika and Hitler 
 portraits, and puts in their place an odd-looking cross and a Punisher lookalike in a Nazi uniform) .
 
  
  Physics are also excellent, with a nice recoil effect adequate to the weapon (a little too strong 
 for submachine guns perhaps, but the whole point of the weapon is to shoot in short bursts, not 
 mow down everything like an action movie) .
  
  I've to say I did not find this game to be so absurdly difficult as the Gamespot review says, but 
 the minimap is a HUGE help to the player, marking hostiles and neutrals before the player sees 
 them.
  
  But where DtS shines, it's the setting. After tons and tons of shooters and RTS's with a WW2 setting, 
 it's refreshing to play a stealth game this accurate from a seldom-used point of view.
  
  To sum it all with a personal note: I've always found stealth games impossibly boring. Except this 
 one. DtS has that special "oomph" that sucks you in and doesn't let you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This should have been what Commandos Strike Force was not, a stealth game. It obviously borrows 
 from Hitman as many will say. But its much more difficult than hitman. It takes persistence and 
 TIME to get through some of these missions. I struggled in a couple spots that seemed impossible. 
 Had some trouble planting explosives on a bridge, and that last mission I took 3 hours to get through. 
 I recommend it to players who like stealth, but bring some patience and SAVE a lot because otherwise 
 you will rip your hair out! You might anyways, given the tough spots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebebebebebe123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  The main thing of this game is it's realism. They don't fool around or be lenient at all. 1, you 
 are highly vulnerable and med-kit is highly scarce, which means you have to be stealth all the 
 time.
  
  2, the enemy is ruthless and often come in pairs, they will flank you almost immediately in any 
 gun fight.
  
  3, large map w/ a realistic amount of NHPs. Most of them are doing something meaningful.
  
 
  4, the enemies are strategically placed which means they are always covered by others.
  
  The only break they give is the map system. It will tell you who can blow your cover.
  
  Cons:
 
  Lack of options: It's painful from time to time that you are killed not because you are not good, 
 but because you are lack of options. I would like to have both dragging and fireman carrying options 
 when dealing w/ body. Limited speed variation: Sniper Eilte and Splinter Cell have very good speed 
 control of the character, but this one is pretty stupid. Why can't I walk silently w/ my upper 
 body bent?
  
  Where's the empty shell?: The intro movie shows this motion to distract enemy, but it is not adopted 
 into the game. I can still throw stuff, but I have to steal them from someone first.
  
  Common stupid AI glitch: sorry for knowing the exact term, but the stick-to someone's-back-and-hide 
 trick still apply to this game. Short and same cycle time for NHPs: I really prefer a long cycle 
 time for most of the NHPs, which gives me more options to execute and plan my move. Because if 
 the cycle is short, I will just wait for it to repeat itself. But when the cycle is long and full 
 of opportunities, it gives me reasons to replay the level and experiment which is the best timing. 
 No actual conversation: In Splinter cell, I can overheard some sensitive or just funny info by 
 eavesdropping. I really would like some comic relief when I have been waiting on the same spot 
 for a few minutes.
  
  Boring intermission: All the intermissions happens indoor and in a typical office room that you 
 see thru out the game. I would appreciate to get more visual reward when i just finish an hour 
 long mission. More objectives: I would like to see more accidental objective and side objectives 
 as difficultly increases or whatever. In sum, it is a game worth playing at least twice. Even though 
 there are quite a bit of cons, they still can't out weight the amount of realism the developers 
 put in. I recommend this game to someone like to take Hitman one step further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punk-Master
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Death to spies is a cool hot tempered game. It&acute; s interesting the way it was made, because 
 in the beginning you can think it don&acute; t have a very good visual art and its not very realistic, 
 but after some gameplay you figure out what a good game it is. All the logical things like not 
 using an soviet weapon while in disguise were carefully made on this game. The most shiny spot of 
 the title is no doubtly its difficult. Prepare to make good use of the quick save and quick load 
 feature because in some spots you are going to need to use it repeatedly.
  
  In my opinion it&acute; s a game worthing the shot but don&acute; t expect to much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickaje
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Poor graphics, Hitman engine. Bad characther control in game play.
  If you play Hitman and really enjoy, you will enjoy this game, otherwise don&acute; t bother trying. 
 I think Hitman 2 is much better than this because Hitman 2 at least had a story.
  The only thing different from hitman is that now you know the field of vision of the enemy guys.
 
  This game should be released at minimum 3 years ago to become something competitive.
  The worse thing here is the really old engine repack to sell it like new.
  
  Nothing new
 
  Nothing that worth play.
  Nothing at all
  
  Just a bad HD space investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bakuzi
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The overall game is great and i suggest if u like stealth game like Hitman series then u will really 
 like this game.
  
  But the bad thing that may be improved easily is the map !!!
  the map contrast is very bad as in some positions u can't see it clear.
  The second thing is 
 the detection bar at the top of the screen the same problem as the map
  
  At last if the game have a multi player Co-operative mode it would be awesome :D
  
  The game 
 offers many ways to finish the game
  you can end the game with a just shotting any one who stops your way
  this end will make u a 
 Hitman 
  the second way is to stealth your way to the objective and enjoy the beauty of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kttdestroyer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to not compare this game to Hitman games. Well, the diffrence that is very noticable (and 
 sometimes (many times) confusing) is that you cannot change clothes when you shoot someone, you 
 have to knock ( stun ) him down. Also, guards will randomly seperate in two groups (when you change 
 clothes) the one that is friendly (easy guards) and the one that will still see you as hostile 
 (of unkown reasons, sounds like no big deal, but it does make the game unlogical and so it makes 
 it harder to think freely to achive missions) . You will get stuck in places in which you didint 
 think you would get stuck in (you might die once that way too, probobly) , so keep yourself in open, 
 out of tigh places. Traps (out of standard granades, so you will have quite many of them, if you 
 collect that is) that you can place on doors or dead boddies keept me going. The graphics are very 
 impressive, some places better then others but mostly very good. Controls are just broken, i have 
 died many times just becouse the character didint do what i intended for him, especially when you 
 have little time. Shooting is terrible, you think you aim at somthing, but in reality you are aiming 
 somewhere else, which ends up missing in often cructial situactions and your death.
  
  
  Overally this game is quite irritating. Not very well polished talking about gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eveningsky_eric
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This game emulates aspects of several other stealth games such as Splinter Cell and Hitman. However, 
 this is not necessarily a bad thing, because the context of the game makes it feel like an entirely 
 new and innovating product. I was surprised at the similarities it had with other games and yet 
 how new it feels. Besides, it has many features of its own that sets it apart from other games 
 in this less-than-crowded genre. Overall, it has enough of the old and the new to make it a great 
 game.
  
  One of these features is the incredibly open-ended gameplay. Let's say you encounter a sentry standing 
 guard in front of a doorway. You could do many things to fix this problem. You could A) knock him 
 out with chloroform, B) give his lung an extra airway with your knife, C) steal an officer's uniform 
 and just walk past, D) find another way in, and E) shoot his freakin face to the moon. This really 
 gives you a respect for the grizzly creativity that these spies had.
  
  Another thing that I really enjoyed about this game is the fact that it is more a simulation than 
 a run-and-gunner. It has a huge emphasis on realism, and I love it when games are more realistic 
 than not. (Though that is a matter of opinion, and some people may not like this.)
  
  I've traveled many roads in my stealth gaming career, and this game holds its own against all the 
 others. If you like games of this genre, I recommend it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
