-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Death Rally
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/deathrally/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 14, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 8.8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 278 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Remedy Ent.
Genre: Racing
Date:     Dec 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is simply the best top-down racer to come along in years, maybe even ever. 

 When game reviewers get all misty-eyed and start fondly using phrases like 'old school,' 'back to 
 the basics,' and even that most moronic (and oxymoronic) label of 'instant classic,' Death Rally 
 is the kind of game they're talking about - a straightforward arcade-style workhorse with the kind 
 of no-crap efficiency and shiny good looks of a car buff's rebuilt, bored-over 400 - all snug belts, 
 steam-cleaned heads, and chrome-mesh tubing. Essentially, Death Rally is Sprint, grimed over and 
 going into the final hairpin with evil on its mind (and maybe a few well-placed mines for the poor 
 slob just a few lengths behind) .   

 In this top-down racing gem, one to four players take the roles of racecar drivers vying for fame, 
 money, prettier cars, and uglier weapons in an automotive competition so corrupt and dangerous 
 it makes most of the ones Speed Racer drove in look like the Harvard Cup Chess Challenge by comparison. 
 (Come to think of it, the driver faces you can choose from in the selection screen even look a 
 little Speed Racer-ish, except for Duke Nukem. Yes, he's here too) . After selecting your driver 
 and the color of your Volkswagen Bug - for that's exactly what you get, at least to start with 
 - you select various improvements such as armor, better tires, etc., most of which will be beyond 
 your financial reach until you win a few races (for people who have played Sprint, this screen 
 will be like coming home) .   

 You can forget buying a better car for a while, as immediate repair and survival will be your chief 
 concerns early on. Your first car has only a single machine gun, but you can give yourself some 
 teeth in the Black Market screen, purchasing such goods and services as mines, spiked bumpers, 
 rocket booster fuel... or even out-and-out sabotage on the car of the current race-circuit favorite 
 (for people who have played Sprint, this screen will be like coming home, except you discover that 
 Dad is running guns and Mom is operating a murder-for-hire ring out of the breakfast nook) .   

 
 For the desperate, there's a shady loan shark who will front you some cold-hard if you look promising 
 - at 100 percent interest. In fact, there's all kinds of shady stuff going on in Death Rally - 
 you'll have the option to accept side-gigs to run drugs or off particular racers before they reach 
 the finish line. Just remember that the kind of guy who asks you to do this kind of stuff is probably 
 also the kind of guy who'll give you grief if you fail.  

 But on to the meat of the game - the races. The tracks are gorgeous, presented in a locked-to-the-car 
 overhead perspective. Buildings, hills, trees, and other features seem to leap from the screen 
 as you drive your little Matchbox-looking car, godlike, from above: It's Micro Machines with seven 
 priors for homicide. Each track has its own particular attributes, and cars will handle differently 
 depending upon terrain type and available modifications. At the start of each race, weapons are 
 temporarily disabled, to give the cars a few seconds to scatter. Immediately, you must consider 
 your strategy. Just roaring out ahead of the pack will put you in first place... and smack in the 
 sights of three cars' worth of machine guns, all blazing away at you - do you really want that? 
 You could drop some mines behind you and hope your armor holds up long enough for it to pay off, 
 but if those mines aren't run over at once, they'll still be there on the next lap, just as likely 
 as not to cause you problems. Of course, you could hang back and try to take out your opponents 
 with pure firepower, but if you come in last, even your race sponsors won't have anything to do 
 with you, and the money power-ups you nab during the race will be null and void. Other power-ups 
 include the expected ammo, repair-wrench icons, and a really nasty psychoactive mushroom which 
 induces a screen-warbling 'trip,' which must be endured for a few precious seconds as you try to 
 maintain control of your vehicle - hit one of those whilst in the sights of two or three unfriendlies, 
 and it's One-Eight-Seven on Player One.   

 Death Rally has the great and simple nostalgic tension of arcade racers like Sprint and Off-Road 
 Rally, especially in that final lap when your junked and battered car is limping grimly along just 
 ahead of or behind an opponent, and one power-up, botched turn, turbo-boost, or well-placed land 
 mine can make all the difference. With a few honest (or not-so-honest) wins, you can work your 
 way up to the automotive top of the line, the "Deliverator" - the kind of Mach Five-style racer 
 that would be favored by a guy like Duke Nukem - armed with twin machine guns and annoyingly fast 
 (especially if the vehicle that just got shot to hell and outraced like an electric pram was yours) . 
 If you're steering with the keyboard, you're even likely to get those Atari 2600 kind of calluses 
 and blisters on your fingers, and the Old School game experience will be complete. If it seems 
 like I'm waxing romantic about this game, it's because I am. This is simply the best top-down racer 
 to come along in years, maybe even ever. And any game wherein you can lose tire traction in the 
 blood of a bystander you've just run down - well if that doesn't make your eyes go all soggy, I 
 don't reckon anything else could.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sturdyboard
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Death Rally is an awesome top-down racing game that was released in 1996 by Apogee Software and 
 Remedy Software, the creators of Max Payne!
  
  In each race, you try to get through to the finish line first, and you can shoot at the other cars 
 with your weapons. If your car or one of theirs is destroyed, it will burst into flame and be out 
 of the race. You will sometimes be offered extra challenges, like winning the race by destroying 
 all of the other cars. It has different cars available to buy, and you can customize the color 
 of the vehicles. Each time you get enough money and move up and buy the next vehicle, you get more 
 speed, more firepower, and more armor. You can upgrade each vehicle with more armor, better tires, 
 and more! The toughest of the vehicles, the Deliverator, is completely awesome and has dual guns 
 on each side. It's also the fastest of all the cars in the game.
  
  You can select from a group of racing characters, including Duke Nukem! Some of the different characters 
 have special abilities. Duke, for example, is the toughest character to beat, and his car in the 
 game will be harder to shoot up than the other vehicles of its level. Another character is faster 
 than anyone else.
  
  The graphics in the game are nice, and it actually has a couple of cool cinematics!
  
  You 
 play the game by joining races for money after you've chosen a character, and you race around interesting 
 tracks with the other computer controlled opponents. There are different classes to race in, and 
 you move up as you get better cars and more equipment. The other players in each race are randomly 
 selected, their stats are all displayed after each race. The stat board shows how many points you 
 have earned, and your ultimate goal is to get to the top. You cannot ever catch up with the top 
 racers and take first place unless you move into the final racing class. That's the only one that 
 awards enough points to get there. Each race also gives you money, and after every race you can 
 go to the shop to buy repairs, upgrades, and powerups. Once you take the number one spot on the 
 points chart, you have to battle and defeat a boss, which is really cool. You could just keep racing 
 forever without getting the number one status, but once you beat the boss, the game will end. Death 
 Rally is one of the best racing games that I have played, and it's extremely addictive and fun 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 27, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I thought it was going to be Need for Speed with weapons attached. And 
 from the first few menu's in the game you'd be hard presses to blame me! So imagine my dissapointment 
 when it was an oldschool top down racer. Don't get me wrong, as its a great and fun game in its 
 own right, but its just not what I expected. Here's hoping for a sequel though ;) . You get to choose 
 you're persona, even the great Duke Nukem which is fully sick, because when you win a race you 
 hear one of his once liners Hail to the King etc etc. So that's a nifty little thing (too bad its 
 not like NFS though!!) . You start off with a VW bug, a little putt putt bang kind of car. Depending 
 on if you've played it before or not, you probably won't win the first round of the beginners circuit 
 (don't even try the higher levels yet!!!) , but if you're good you'll get 2nd or 3rd. As you get 
 more money you can buy a pick up truck, a porche, and a suped up car called the Deliverator. In 
 between races you can buy mods for you car including mines, front bumber spikes, better tires, 
 engines etc etc, so you can upgrade your car even if its a little bomb. There is no storyline in 
 the game, you just keep racing until you get to number 1 position (which is pretty darn hard) . 
 When you reach #1 you face off against The Adversary, a masked racer with a suped up deliverator 
 which is pretty fast. Beat the adversary you get... satisfaction, and the credits. Big wow I know, 
 but its a racing game so you can't expect much. If they did make a sequel however, they could certainly 
 learn a few things from NFS Most Wanted though. All in all, its a pretty good game, a little dissapointing, 
 and frustrating, but its great when you get the hang of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebbderelict
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  One of my favourite racing games of all time. Death Rally gives you a top-down-view racing experience 
 that's fantastic.
  The courses are fun, there's lots to race on, and they look good. Looking just as stylish are the 
 cars, of which there's plenty to pick from. Throughout the races you'll earn cash to buy new cars, 
 upgrades for your car, and new weapons, both defensive, and offensive. 
  The difficulty matches the level you pick accordingly, however the final race will "drive" you 
 a little mad. Although, there is a great sense of accomplishment when you win. The sound is well 
 done, the music is catchy, and there's a good selection of driver profiles to pick from.
  For a DOS-based-BLAST, pick up a copy of Death Rally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuParNovA
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 24, 2004 3:16 pm PT
Review:  You start with a silly car. Wich can win with some luck the easiest league.
  In the race you can get firepower by riding over some fire icons or you can purchase some mines. 
 Then you'll have to make the finish buy shooting the other guys, corrupt some people or purchase 
 heavy engines and better cars.
  If you succeed you get some money so you can do these things or you can spare for a new car with 
 better firepower, better grip, faster ...
  You can also use the money to repair your (possible) damaged car.
  When your car is a bit heavier 
 you can participate in the second league, with other heavier cars. If you get higher ranked and 
 you got one of the best cars you can finally participate in the hardest league. Of course the entree 
 money is much more, but you also win much more.
  In the hardest (third) league your enemies are mostly the ten first people of the tournament, so 
 they're extra difficult, they are very rich and have the fastest cars. If you finally get the top 
 of the tournament you'll have to fight against the 'boss'. He drives in a special car you can't 
 get and has his own map. If you finish first, ... you win.
  I played this one when I was 6 and I completed it in 6 hours (on New year eve's I was playing this 
 till 9.30 p. m. so I guess it was fun) 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
