-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: DEFCON: Everybody Dies
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/defcon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's the <i>WarGames</i> simulation you've been waiting 20 years for.
 straightforward objective and intuitive interface make it good for novices.
 simple and elegant visual style.
 online and offline games are seamless.
 low price point makes it a bargain.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No real dedicated single-player campaign.
 no online leaderboards or tournaments.
 computer opponent difficulty doesn't scale.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.3, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 809 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Introversion
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 29, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though not a complex strategy game, Defcon's specific sense of style makes for a compelling and 
 unsettling experience. 

  In a sincere act of tribute, developer Introversion has taken the deadly global thermonuclear warfare 
 simulation from the classic 1983 Cold War film  WarGames  and fleshed it out into a full game called 
 Defcon: Everybody Dies. The game stays true to the message of its source material, which is that 
 there are no winners in nuclear war, though it does posit that perhaps with the right strategy, 
 you can lose  less  when it finally does happen. The game's abstract visual style is absolutely 
 striking, presenting Armageddon with a certain cool detachment, and the simple, clear-cut objective 
 makes it an easy game to pick up. Defcon's biggest weakness is that beyond the queasy thrill of 
 simulating full-scale nuclear war, there's not much structure.  

          Missile Command reaches adulthood.     

  A big part of what makes Defcon so intriguing 
 is its presentation. The game's interface consists almost entirely of a flat, horizontally scrolling 
 map of the world and how it looked around 1983, which means that if you look closely at borders, 
 you'll see that East and West Germany are still divided, countries like Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia 
 are still in one piece, and most importantly, the U. S. S. R. is still united. Vector-based visuals 
 and a purposeful lack of geographical detail on the map give the game a very clean look, and the 
 simple icons used to identify radar arrays, missile silos, airbases, and naval fleets further the 
 game's abstract feel. It has the look and feel of a pure military simulation, and touches like 
 the dotted lines that trail a missile's trajectory and the white blots and kill-count numbers that 
 accompany a successful nuclear strike lend a certain sense of authenticity.  

  One of the most chilling aspects of Defcon is the subtle ways it suggests that it's more than a 
 simulation, something it does almost entirely through sound design. The sounds that accompany the 
 action are appropriately blippy, and there's definitely something sinister about the Klaxons that 
 sound when you reach a new Defcon level, but it's the ambient sounds that really set the mood. 
 There's not so much music as there is a drifting, ominous instrumentation, and mingled with these 
 dark sounds are the light hum of computers, the hollow wash of recycled air, some indistinguishable 
 radio chatter, and the faint sound of someone coughing. Or is it crying? The ambient sounds end 
 up looping after a while, but that doesn't lessen their effect of making you feel like you're holed 
 up in a bunker, helping dictate how the world ends through a remote computer terminal. As a minor 
 note, the game also features a pretty good manual, which comes off like a Cold War survival guide 
 with explanations of what fallout is and some half-serious suggestions on building a shelter and 
 fabricating your own fallout suit.  

  As a real-time strategy game, Defcon strips away all of the economic systems that arguably make 
 many modern RTS games impenetrable to nonveterans, so it becomes purely a matter of military might. 
 The world is divided up into six territories -- North America, South America, Europe, Africa, Asia, 
 and the U. S. S. R. -- and in a typical game, you'll take control of one of these territories as you 
 attempt to dish out as much radioactive damage as you can while minimizing collateral damage. The 
 pace of the game is dictated by the five different Defcon levels. The game starts at Defcon 5, 
 which is when you build. There are radar stations you'll need to see enemy units, silos that can 
 act as either antiair installations or missile launch sites, and airbases from which to launch 
 fighters and nuclear-capable bombers, as well as fleets of battleships, nuclear submarines, and 
 carriers stocked with fighters and bombers that you'll need to place in the waters controlled by 
 your region.  

  You can continue building into Defcon 4, which is when your radar stations will begin functioning. 
 Once you hit Defcon 3, you lose the ability to build any more structures, but by this time you 
 should be exploring enemy territories with your naval units and maybe attempting to engage your 
 enemies' naval units. The setup continues in Defcon 2, but it's not until you reach Defcon 1 that 
 you can actually start deploying nukes, which is when the game really gets interesting. Be default, 
 every region starts out with the same number and types of units, which further simplifies the fundamental 
 rock-paper-scissors dynamic. You'll find that it makes your job easier when you destroy your enemies' 
 military forces, but the real goal is to make successful nuclear strikes on your enemies' cities, 
 as the basic scoring is predicated on the number of civilian deaths you've caused.  

  The first four Defcon levels are timed, while Defcon 1 lasts until a certain percentage of the 
 world's nukes have been deployed before it goes into the final two-minute-warning-style victory 
 timer, which gives the game a unique pace, though you can speed up or slow down the action at will. 
 It's seamless enough to play against artificial intelligence opponents, but Defcon seems very purposefully 
 designed as an online game -- simply choosing "new game" from the main menu puts you into a three-player 
 game that anyone from the Internet can hop into. What's interesting, though, is how many different 
 variables you can set before the start of a match, and what a profound impact these choices can 
 have on the feel of the game. Simply altering the number of players can radically affect how a 
 game plays out, since playing with the full six tends to cause players to form strategic alliances. 

  There are also a number of alternate modes that you can choose from. There's the accurately named 
 office mode, which runs in a window with no sound that can be instantly minimized by hitting the 
 escape key, and which runs strictly in real-time, meaning that it'll take you a good six hours 
 to play a single game. Speed defcon works almost the opposite, running the game at an accelerated 
 rate so that a single game will last no more than 15 minutes -- not much time to go from relative 
 tranquility to the end of the world. Diplomacy starts the match with everyone part of the same 
 alliance, which means that everyone can see everyone else's units, creating a metagame of chicken 
 to see who will break off from the alliance and start attacking first. BigWorld mode stretches 
 out the length of the game by doubling the number of units but halving their size and radar range. 

          Would you like to play a game?     

  Beyond even these preset modes, you can choose different scoring methods that don't penalize you 
 for the deaths of your own civilians and tweak a number of other granular options such as the number 
 of territories each player is allowed to hold, the number of cities per territory, whether the 
 territories are randomly assigned, whether players have a fixed number of units or if they can 
 choose to spend "credits" to customize their resources, and more. All these options give a lot 
 of life to a strategy game with one map and a handful of different units, much more than you might 
 expect, and our experiences with the game online were consistently good. Unfortunately, there's 
 no dedicated single-player scenario mode, and the AI opponents, while fairly capable, aren't scalable 
 and don't really play on an advanced level. Even when playing online, it's just a one-off match, 
 with nothing in place for leaderboards or tournaments or anything of the like. There is a mode 
 called tournament, though that's a bit of a misnomer, as all it really does is prevent spectators 
 from chatting with the players. As hypnotic as the visual style and subject matter can be, eventually 
 the lack of a greater objective makes the game feel a bit listless.  

  Even though the main source of inspiration for Defcon is more than 20 years old, and Cold War paranoia 
 is a thing of the past, the game feels disturbingly relevant, and much like developer Introversion's 
 past work, Uplink: Hacker Elite and Darwinia, there's truly nothing else quite like it today. It 
 doesn't do any heavy-handed sermonizing about the price of war or the blurry lines between games 
 and reality, but the game's matter-of-fact presentation of nuclear holocaust makes it hard not 
 to ponder these topics anyway.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: archoniam
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:56 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the game DEFCON on Steam, I thought it would be a masterpiece in the making. Unfortunately, 
 its lack of multiplayer and repetitive gameplay make it a sore loser.
  
  The Good:
  -Controls are RTS-style
  -Very nice "whiteboard" option, allowing for drawing points of nuke 
 hits/movements
  
  The Bad:
  -Slow without speed-up buttons
  -Multiplayer lacking active servers and players
  -Hard
  -Confusing gameplay
  -I would expect 
 a lot more from a free flash game.
  -No storyline
  -Kind of sad, if you consider what you're doing
  
  In my humble opinion, DEFCON was a big letdown. 
 There's probably a similar flash game out there that is free and much better than this. For an 
 RTS, it passes the bar for a fair game, but not enough to be in the league of top RTS games. If 
 you want a good RTS, i would consider Dawn of War or Warcraft III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The chorus echoes into your brain as you push the trigger. Slowly the little icons representing 
 large nuclear explosives soar through the European sky finally hitting their Russian target. The 
 chorus jumps higher in anticipation as the display reads5 million dead. And slowly, you back away 
 from the display, and the game makes you wonder: who really won?
  
  This is the deep, dark truth of Defcon, the game by Introversion (makers of Uplink and Darwinia) 
 that pits you into strategic waters, where you have to create allies, expand your fleet and prepare 
 for the inevitable, because as soon as the timer hits Defcon One, as the subtitle implies, Everybody 
 Dies. From the atmosphere to the intricate online and offline battles, the game becomes its own 
 genre, beyond an RTS. It's war.
  
  The game is eerie in this way, when it places you in such a power that you have two conflicting 
 morals: the virtual landscape with the cold efficiency that the game tells you its death toll, 
 and the final hour when missiles are on every side and your enemies are closing in. It's a very 
 surreal experience, regardless that it's completely fabricated, because it feels plausible. The 
 game is a very emotional one, because you know it could happen.
  
  You know that America could start launching its supply at South America, because there's the capability 
 for it. But what if you decide that you want their aid as well? Open up a private channel and inform 
 them of your alliance offer. Maybe they will accept. Perhaps you could offer your friendship and 
 tell them to start launching many, many nukes at an enemy, while you go behind their back and tell 
 the enemy that they should defend. While the nukes are in the air, blast that former friend to 
 smithereens, all in the name of politics.
  
  But then after the launching is done, and nukes sail through the air and the entire continent is 
 green with radiation: five million, six million, ten million dead. The soundtrack comes in when 
 the smoke has cleared and everyone is over and done withthe distinct chorus sings and slow, mournful 
 tune beneath an odd, out of key note. Then you gaze over the display and look at the war, and you 
 realize that this isn't a game at all, no matter how simple it may seemIt's actually quite real. 
 The plausibility has never really penetrated you before, until this. It affects you.
  
  The simplicity is part of it, as well. With a very straightforward set of units, there's no complexity 
 here. The real focus is on who your friends are, and how you deal with what you have. An apt metaphor 
 is chess, because of the balance, ebb and flow of the games you play. It's a fun game, abet simple, 
 and it has a message.
  
  Defcon: Everybody Dies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Full review and score breakdown, here: 
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2357,0. html
  
  The trend in the gaming market has been a move towards more and more sophisticated games with even 
 more detailed and realistic graphics than have come before. While these games strive to provide 
 the next level of immersion, they ignore the power of a more simple representation. DEFCON: Everybody 
 Dies provides a chilling view of a modern world war through the most removed view possible in such 
 a game.
  
  The premise of DEFCON is simple: you're presented a digital representation of the world and your 
 territory and your allies. Both sides start with the same amount of forces and resources available 
 to them, meaning that placement of forces and platforms is key to winning the game. The game moves 
 through several stages as time progresses, called DEFCONs. As each stage expires, the game moves 
 on and allows players to take more and more hostile actions. From DEFCON 5, where you are allowed 
 to place your installations, silos, fleets, etc, in range of your territory; you move up the ladder 
 through increasingly destructive stages until you reach DEFCON 1, allowing all sides to start nuclear 
 launches. At this point, its a war of attrition, finding yourself hoping that your AA defenses 
 will hold out long enough for your nukes to completely level an opposing continent. After the game 
 reaches DEFCON 1, you'll have a set time in which to gain as many points as possible by nuking 
 the enemy's population and keeping your own citizens alive. By default, the game is weighted towards 
 killing more than protecting, so the action gets very hot very quickly.
  
  There's some simplistic RTS play in between these stages, where players pitch air forces and navies 
 in order to weaken each others' defenses to open up the stage for a devastating nuclear assault. 
 There are three types of ships, each of which is vulnerable to another in a simple rock-paper-scissors 
 mechanic. You'll want to make sure that you don't spend too much time fighting, however, since 
 carriers and subs are better used to launch nuclear attacks at your enemy once you reach DEFCON 
 1. Since they can sail right up to your enemy's coast, they'll often fire your first shots against 
 an opponent. Knowing just where and when to launch your first strike can make or break your whole 
 game.
  
  Where DEFCON truly succeeds is its representation and depiction of the worldwide battlefield. Everything 
 is seen as if it was on a real-life tactical display screen, with little 2D icons representing 
 forces and nuclear missiles blipping across the map. When a city is hit by a nuclear device, the 
 computer coldly reports the amount of dead resulting from that strike. It really is chilling to 
 see a city such as Berlin light up for a few seconds, with the words: "1.8 MILLION DEAD" appearing 
 over it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHasselhoff
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  Though certainly not a game for everyone, who can fault the concept of CREATING nuclear war instead 
 of the tired and formulaic good-and-evil fight against it? If anything, DEFCON goes further than 
 any game in recent memory to show just how depersonalized and utterly possible a full-scale conflict 
 could be. One finds themselves putting a great deal more thought into strategic planning and future 
 hostilities than originally imagined, and the kitschy "political incorrectness" of DEFCON quickly 
 melts into a very solid strategy and combat simulator.
  
  There is no reason why a gamer who finds Civilization or Age of Empires compelling would not find 
 something to like about the nail-biting strategy and heated decision-making the player is forced 
 into during a single play-through of DEFCON. If only it were still free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, you'll probably think DEFCON is some low budget game that you shouldn't waste 
 your time on, as its graphics are seemingly completely old fashioned and the gameplay looks extremely 
 simple. Do NOT judge this game by its cover dang it! DEFCON is a low budget jewel that strategy 
 gamers of any kind should be able to enjoy.
  
  The premise of DEFCON is based off of old movies such as WarGames, and Fail-Safe. So in DEFCON, 
 you play as a military commander with control over the entire nuclear assets of your chosen country. 
 You aren't given a 3D view of the entire world however- instead, your inside a bunker, with an 
 interface that allows you to view the entire nuclear conflict as it unfolds. Its more interesting 
 than it sounds here, cause DEFCON has many subtle touches with its interface and sound design that 
 make the entire theme surrounding DEFCON feel rather moody.
  
  In a basic match of DEFCON, your goal is determined by several DEFCON stages, numbered 1-5. The 
 game always starts at 5, which is when you deploy your navies and buildings such as radar, silos 
 for both nukes and defense, and airbases. When DEFCON 3 rolls in, naval and aerial combat begins 
 between all players unless you've set up an alliance with them. And DEFCON 1? That's where the 
 fun begins, as the nukes come out in full glory. Your ultimate goal is most commonly either to 
 kill as many enemy civilians as possible by hitting their cities with nukes, to defend your own 
 cities as best you can, or a combination of the two goals.
  
  How you go about all this dirty business is where DEFCON shines. At first glance, the variety of 
 what you are given to work with is a little simplistic and limited. However, the aspects of where, 
 when, and how you pull off your attacks almost never works out the same way every game. Every game 
 will play out differently- especially online. Will you make any alliances? Will you crack first 
 and let loose all of your nukes leaving your backside vulnerable? Will your allies betray you? 
 Will you betray them? The number of possabilites is very impressive, and turns a seemingly simple 
 game into a surprisingly complex experience.
  
  If you want to experience DEFCON in its full glory however, you'll definitely want to play online. 
 You can of course practice against the AI, but DEFCON isn't nearly as entertaining without some 
 other human brains working against you. The AI in DEFCON is decent, but it plays rather predictably 
 and doesn't interact with the game's diplomacy interface in any fashion, making single player matches 
 much less entertaining. Fortunately, online matches from my experience almost never suffer from 
 any lag.
  
  Graphically, as I've already stated, DEFCON looks simple, but it has many subtle touches that help 
 elevate its atmosphere and theme. The entire game board looks like a digital screen in some isolated 
 bunker with all of that big white text and white blips. Sure, its simplistic, but its effective. 
 Sound wise, DEFCON's music is heavily undertoned, but still fits the theme perfectly. The faint 
 sounds of nukes exploding and technical blips in the game all help to support the theme DEFCON 
 goes for.
  
  Ultimately, DEFCON is absolutely worth a look for any strategy gamer looking for something new. 
 Get past the low budget look, and your in for a treat with DEFCON.
  
  Pros: Simple, yet deceptively complex and unpredictable gameplay. Simple, yet effective graphics 
 that fit DEFCON's theme perfectly. Great sound design.
  
  Cons: Decent, but ultimately predictable AI.
  
  Recommendable for: DEFCON's deceptively complex 
 gameplay should appeal to just about any strategy gamer. Those new to strategy games should also 
 enjoy DEFCON. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAgmoore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  The Gamespot review was "right on the money" ( which is miraculous, given CNET's acquirement in 
 2001-ish and henceforth, usually hyperinflated or underrated reviews. )
  
  This game will appeal to those looking for "something different".
  
  I think that this game 
 will appeal to older gamers (25+) because the game can last 1.5-3 hours ( with the longest game 
 that I ever played being 6 hours long ) . To put it into perspective, it takes about 20-30 minutes 
 for ICBMs ( Inter Continental Ballistic Missiles) to hit their targets due to the long distances 
 / lengthy flight times.
  
  Submarines, the slowest moving vehicles in the game move at a rate of 1 pixel per minute so the 
 game requires a lot of patience, initial pre-planning and readjustment of playing style, relative 
 to today's RTS ( real time strategy ) games . I think that this slow-fast, stop-start combination 
 of fighter planes and bombers versus submarines makes the game more realistic and always tactically 
 frantic in a "who will outrange and launch ordinance first?" kind of way.
  
  You can speed up time but because of the stop-start, time-critical nature of the game, and the 
 importance of defending against attacks, I found myself playing the game in real-time ( rather 
 than using the "fast-forward time" button ) .
  
  The ambiance of the game is very attractive: minimalistic graphics and sound; so as an art project, 
 this game is very successful.
  
  Strategically the game is not very deep because of the static nature of the world map. After figuring 
 out the nuances of the tactical combat. You will figure out an overall winning strategy within 
 a few games and after that, unless you play multiplayer (and even after) , you will most likely 
 uninstall the game.
  
  I bought the game based on the fact that I couldn't stop laughing after reading the outside of 
 the box ( British humour / Physics humour ) .
  
  Pluses:
  
  The cheap price point.
  The low resource requirements ( there is a linux version on the developer website ) .
  The art 
 style.
  The humour in the manual and on the box.
  
  
  Minuses:
  
  You cannot make the game more challenging.
  Once you figure out the rock-paper-scissors nature 
 of the game, you won't feel the need to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrickyBird
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  DEFCON has a great title, really. Everybody Dies. It's fantastic, because it shows the key idea 
 behind the game. Ever bored in the office and in need of something over than Football Manager? 
 DEFCON is your game.
  
  
  It's got a certain degree of beauty to it, whether its the wonderfully crafted visual style, like 
 a neon sign of terror, or just the sheer giddiness you get when you destroy a city and '6.5 million 
 dead' pops up on screen. It's such a simple strategy game, but the essence is so deep, almost like 
 modern warfare itself, with its laser targeting and almost AI-controlled bombs, it still requires 
 a degree of skill to know just what the hell you are doing. Playing a power-hungry genocider has 
 never been this fun.
  
  There are setbacks, however. The fact that this is multiplayer focused means that single player 
 is just not as fun, almost boring. It also seems a little confusing at first, I struggled with 
 the general concept and took a while to understand what was going on. 
  
  
  Overall, DEFCON is a great game to run in the background, it's fun, it's great to look at, and 
 it turns you into a temporary mass murderer. What's not to like? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorkclub
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Ever since WOPR asked Matthew Broderick shall we play a game? in 1983s Wargames, an entire video 
 gaming generation has wanted to respond with a resounding yes! With DEFCON, the third game from 
 independent British developer Introversion Software, we finally get that chance. The game allows 
 you to play against up to five other opponents in a game of global thermonuclear war, a sick, perverted 
 fantasy to be certain. Played out on a white-on-black version of Dr. Strangeloves Big Board, DEFCON 
 is a simple but moody real-time strategy game that proves a big budget isnt a prerequisite for 
 big accomplishment.
  
  Like the 1980s computer interfaces that inspired it, DEFCON is a game defined by its minimalism. 
 Clean vector graphics represent units and structures with stylized flair  dotted vector exhaust 
 trails stream behind fighter jets, fleets of neon-outlined ships do battle on darkly juxtaposing 
 high seas. The soundtrack is made up of distant industrial rumbling and the beeping of unseen machinery; 
 the sound builds and resonates to form a brooding, ominous tension. Just when you youve chewed 
 your last fingernail to the stump from anxiety, relief comes from the punctuating blast of a nuclear 
 detonation and the subsequent screams of the dying. Never has so much atmosphere been created with 
 so little.
  
  This same overall minimalism translates to the gameplay as well, creating a very approachable real-time 
 strategy experience. Finding human opponents is as simple as clicking a single button, and when 
 the game begins, all players start with exactly the same number of units and structures. Because 
 theres no resource gathering or unit building  you start the game with all your weapons ready 
 for war  the game rewards thoughtful use of available tools over speedy reaction times or uber 
 micromanagement. All players are locked to the same timetable, as the titular DEFCON level drops 
 over time, from 5 to 1, with tension and hostility rising as the number lowers. At DEFCON 5, players 
 place their structures and units  radars, missile silos, air bases, and fleets made of up various 
 ship types. As time passes and the game reaches DEFCON 3, air and naval combat is allowed. By the 
 time you reach DEFCON 1, the nukes are in the air.
  
  While this simplicity makes for an engaging first experience, unfortunately the same minimalist 
 approach that aids the overall presentation does little to mask the shallow gameplay. Once youve 
 mastered sending your warheads in waves to overwhelm enemy defenses  a technique that should require 
 no more than a game or two to perfect  youve already seen the most complex the game ever becomes. 
 With our planet as the games only map, and six continents acting as the only playable positions, 
 the only real strategic considerations required from game to game comes from deciding when to transform 
 your stationary anti-air defenses into death-spewing missile silos. Honestly, there just isnt 
 much here, but then again actual nuclear warfare doesnt require much thought either.
  
  Pressing the big red button and watching the deathtoll rise, hoping to take as many lives as you 
 can before your own population is decimated by nuclear holocaust, is a sickly engaging activity, 
 but it quickly wears thin. DEFCON is essentially multiplayer only; the only offline option pits 
 you against computer-controlled players with no scalable difficulty settings. Even the added paranoia 
 stemming from lose online alliances isnt enough to give this game the depth or longevity of any 
 other strategy title on the market. Thankfully, DEFCON is cheap at just $15 through Steam, but 
 even at the low price theres barely enough meat on these bones to justify a purchase.
  
  With a demo that virtually includes the full experience, its hard to recommend a game with so 
 little to offer, especially in a genre renowned for its depth and replayability. Easily activated 
 mods offer new visual themes and maps, but still arent enough to classify DEFCON as a successful 
 game. Still, for those first couple of matches, DEFCON instills the sort of tense fear even the 
 best in the survival horror genre can barely imitate. While DEFCON may fail as a game, it succeeds 
 as an artistic achievement and as a social statement. As a game where there are no winners, only 
 degrees of losers, it manages to convey a clear message entirely through gameplay, never resorting 
 to preachy, 30-minute cinematics. From a presentation standpoint, other developers could learn 
 a great deal from DEFCON, but for a rewarding strategy experience, youre better off randomly selecting 
 a game from the local bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saibot216
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Today I got the game Defcon mainly because I was interested in a new innovative RTS. Believe me 
 when I say it is. There's nothing better than coming home from a stressful day of work or school 
 and nuking a bunch of cities, lol.
  The game is simply put war on the entire world. You build your Silos, Radars, Hangars (ya' know 
 for planes and bombers) , and your naval units (Battleships, Submarines, and some other ship I'm 
 not familiar with) and after all of the creation you go out and attack your enemy players.
  Onto the gameplay, the best part. As you build your territory of war you go through the different 
 steps of the Defcon system until you get to Defcon 1 and you nuke every city that belongs to your 
 enemy killing millions of Binary Bastards. The game has no story (which can be nice and relaxing) , 
 it's skirmishes 100% of the time and it can be single player or multiplayer (co-op and free-for-all) . 
 A miss in the game is that politics aren't involved.
  Overall the game is definitely a refreshing, new, innovative RTS. The game came with a patch that 
 reads Defcon, Global Nuclear Domination Game, Everybody Dies. This little piece of 'shwag' is very 
 cool and awesome. I give Defcon a 9 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocksteadyRA
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This is the game I play for pure fun...
  It sits running on an older computer like a screen saver...
  A darkly demented Screen saver...
 
  It's easy to slide into and play.
  Mastery is another story all together.
  Graphics what you looking for?
  Stay away then as this is as basic as you can get.
  Lots of 
 mods out there for the unit and world maps.
  Basic concept is place your units in the field and begin preperations for the countdown to extinction.
 
  Everyone gets the same type of units so no one side has the advantage.
  Lots of replay ability aslong as you don't mind finding someone to play against but the computer 
 AI after awhile gets easier to predict. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brood_aliance
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to nuke a major city? Well in this game you can. DEFCON's objective is to destroy cities, 
 and kill as many people with nukes. The game includes only 5 units, and 3 structures. That may 
 seem little for a strategy game, but it keeps the game simple. The units, in my opinion, are balanced 
 and all have important functions, unlike some units in other RTS games that can just be forgotten. 
 I can't say much about graphics, since it is just a map of the world, with a few units and structures 
 on the map. But the map of the world does look good. Again, I can't say much about sounds. There 
 aren't many combat sounds in the game. The highlight of the game, is the online multiplayer. Even 
 though there aren't many people playing this online, it is still great, especially with friends. 
 What is more satisfying then blowing up your friend's New York, or Moscow, and watching the kill 
 count hit 60 million. Another great thing about the game is the mods. Some are very simple, like 
 adding the names of the cities, and some could change strategy, like playing in space. It keeps 
 the game from getting stale.
  
  If you are looking for a new, different, refreshing strategy game, this is the one to get. Although, 
 I would of hoped for more players online to nuke, this is one of those hidden gems, which sadly, 
 nobody know of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-queen
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  Global Thermonuclear War, we all know that this word is connected to the 1983 film WarGames, put 
 the word in Wkipedia and WarGames is listed. And now British devolper Introversion Software, the 
 self-proclaimed last of the bedroom progammers , is recreating the bigboard of WarGames and the 
 scare of a global nuclear war.
  
  The game is most probably set in the Cold War shown by the USSR and a split Germany. When starting 
 a game you first have to choose a territories, there are six to choose: North America, South America, 
 Africa, Europe, the USSR and Asia. Then choose a colour, if you choose a colour that is the same 
 of another player then you are in an alliance with that player.
  
  When you start the screen is a simple lit-up world map, you start by placing the three buildings: 
 radars, airbases and missile silos, then place your fleet made up of submarines, battleships and 
 carriers. The game uses a DEFCON system similar to the real US Military DEFCON system, first is 
 DEFCON 5: no hostilites. Can move naval units within international waters. DEFCON 4: Radar will 
 show enemies
  DEFCON 3: Can no longer place units. Can engage in naval and air combat
  DEFCON 2: Continued and more aggressive hostlites.
  And the one we all look forward to, DEFCON 
 1: Nuclear attacks allowed. Launch nukes from missile silos, from bombers and submarines. Points 
 are gained through megadeaths, 2 points for a megadeath you cause, lose 1 point for megadaeths 
 against you, this is for default mode. Genocide mode is one point for each megadeaths and Survivor 
 mode is 1 point for per million survivor.
  
  There are also other modes of play; In Diplomacy mode all players start as members of a single 
 alliance, and attempt to stay on top as the alliance disintegrates. Score is determined not by 
 enemy population killed, but by which territory has the highest percentage of survivors at the 
 end of the game.
  In Office mode the game runs in real time and cannot be sped up. The game can be quickly forced 
 to the background making the computer available for another use, or simply to make it appear the 
 gamer is actually working. While the game continues to run in the background, a system tray icon 
 will notify the gamer of certain events as they occur. The office mode hotkey, sometimes referred 
 to as the boss key, is activated by striking the escape key twice in rapid succession. A game in 
 office mode lasts no more than six hours. In fact, the boss key is available in all game modes, 
 but it is designed for this mode in particular.
  
  But nothing is crafted perfect and DEFCON does have its bad side, one is the lack of a scoreboard 
 to show your wins, loses and your rank wich usually exists in a multiplayer game which DEFCON allows 
 and another is the repeated gameplay, nothing is new in the next game.
  
  In total DEFCON is a stroke of genius which makes us paranoid and live the possibility of causing 
 the Cold War to be more hotter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IvanKomarov
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Even if you havent seen the classic film Wargames, nothing can beat the satisfaction you get 
 when you push a button and moments later, seven or eight million lives end in a little white heat 
 blossom on a beautifully-rendered wireframe map. That's right, people, it's DEFCON: Everybody Dies. 
 Although it hasn't really been on shelves very long, and it's not exactly a frontrunner in sales 
 or promotion, its amazing gameplay, incredible atmosphere, and simple graphics that'll run on any 
 computer make it a purely amazing game.
  
  It really shines in customization - although there aren't many gametypes per se, you can change 
 how many territories each player gets, how many cities there are, the scoring system, even the 
 fonts, colors, and shadings used by the games engine; modding, too, is fairly prevalent amongst 
 the very strong and supportive community. You can play real-time, and have a game last a full day 
 - should your boss show up, double-tap the Esc key, and DEFCON will vanish to the system tray, 
 and will show you little alerts like Enemy Subs Detected or Player 2 Launch , and doesn't bog your 
 computer down while doing so. You can also play Speed DEFCON (by default, the game runs at the 
 lowest speed setting requested by a player) where more often than not, the game runs at speed 4, 
 and it's all over within minutes; the only real problem with Speed mode is that any AIs will have 
 a serious advantage because they don't need to actually move and click a mouse, and are thereby 
 capable of reacting to many things at once.
  
  So sure, it's got its downsides - non-scalable AI opponents that, when they're not annihilating 
 you, they're just plain boring to play against; a few graphical and even fewer gameplay exploits 
 (which are so hard to pull off it's kind of a waste to try them, especially since a new patch is 
 about to be released) ; and the occasional times of day and night where there's simply no-one playing. 
 Its also arguable that the game should have a campaign mode, although how this would work is beyond 
 me.
  
  However, you'll most likely forget about all of the shortcomings once you immerse yourself in the 
 atmosphere Introversion's provided in this game's spartan style  somewhat along the lines of the 
 Harpoon series, and frighteningly realistic; your aircraft must be fuel-managed, alliances can 
 be broken from minute to minute, and missiles take agonizing minutes to fly. And, whereas most 
 games would go for loud explosions, flashy mushroom clouds, grinding, militant music, and general 
 cinematics, DEFCON stays low-key. You're a general in a hidden, safe bunker somewhere, a witness 
 to the apocalypse, and the game keeps you that way - its the kind of triumph that doesnt feel 
 right; all you see is Cairo hit, 7.6 million dead , and there's just a faint rumble as Cairos 
 diamond on the map dissolves into a white glow. You feel detached from the deaths, so omniscient 
 and above it all, that theres no satisfaction here, but it's a necessity for your people to survive, 
 and therein lies the game's motto - It's global thermonuclear war, and nobody wins. But maybe, 
 just maybe, you can lose the least. There's a haunting soundtrack arranged by Alistair Lindsay 
 and Michael Maidment [both worked on Introversion's Darwinia ] that manages to stay quiet and backstage, 
 yet manages to be wholly frightening and epic; and as the missiles start arcing over the globe, 
 you hear nothing but the submarines' sonar ringing, the hollow wind, and women and children pitifully 
 drawing their last breaths as black rain falls from the sky. You're not sure you want to return 
 fire anymore, but you have to if you want any of your people to survive, and that's the most eerie 
 feeling of all - this is a game where satisfaction doesn't lie in retaliation. You might be psyched 
 to get the missiles flying at first, but then you realize that the winning move  as in Wargames 
  is not to make a move at all.
  
  It's an odd feeling, and you may shy away from the premise at first. I did, too, but this is the 
 only game Ive ever given a ten out of ten, and its because it doesnt rely on visuals, stunning 
 cutscenes, or dry gaming archetypes and the general hype thereof, but in teaching a lesson through 
 its strange, detached style and gameplay  no-one really wins in nuclear war. So give DEFCON: Everybody 
 Dies a try, and I guarantee you'll find it to be one of the most uniquely unsettling, yet tense 
 and intriguing, gaming sensations ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aveiga1000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Defcon is another amazing work of art by the folks at introversion software. It breaks the mold 
 on what an RTS should be by bringing a new concept to it, nuclear annihilation. What sets it apart 
 is the presentation, as opposed to having a super-sleek 3d dimensional look, it gives you a 2D 
 look to what The folks at missile command might be looking at. In addition, the dramatic mood the 
 game sets is amazing yet simple. As opposed to a heavy metal track or epic sounding orchestra; 
 it uses a slow droning music supplemented by background noise ranging from the occasional radio 
 chatter to a woman crying in the background. In addition to the music, the interface also shows 
 in big, bold lettering how many people you just killed nuking the city. The interface is easy to 
 use and lets you play right away without worrying about gathering resources or other micromanagement. 
 While you may enjoy playing the game, you may get so into it you might pause and think My God, 
 what have I done? It is definitely worth playing even if your not that interested in the RTS genre. 
 The Downside is that the AI may be too hard and you might be a little unnerved by the sheer scale 
 of destruction, so its really not for the easily frightened or paranoid. The Game really is true 
 to its name, 'EVERYBODY DIES'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cronjob
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  This is a good game that could have been great. The graphics are simple, but beautiful and lend 
 to the ominous and creepy end of the world is coming atmosphere. However, you will tire of the 
 poor AI opponents quickly and when you go online for multiplayer, you'll find that there just aren't 
 that many people to play against.
  
  It isn't a complex game, but some great games against real people would be enjoyable. Last time 
 I checked, there were probably two dozen people online and only three or four actual games going 
 on. This would make an excellent XBOX Live Arcade game and would draw a lot more people into the 
 competition.
  
  If you have someone to play with at home, buy a copy or two and play via LAN. Otherwise, realize 
 that you may not get a lot of gameplay out of your $20 or $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirk04
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  I realize nothing works on Vista but I would like to see a patch released soon for this. I play 
 at home on my XP machine but playing on my work laptop would be better and make the day go buy 
 much faster, there's even a work mode of play! In addition to all of this It's also $10.00 cheaper 
 if you buy a direct download from the website. Hope this review helps.
  
  (I'm not sure if I have 100 words yet.)
  
  DEFCON DEFCON DEFCON DEFCON DEFCON DEFCON DEFCON
 
  
  I realize nothing works on Vista but I would like to see a patch released soon for this. I play 
 at home on my XP machine but playing on my work laptop would be better and make the day go buy 
 much faster, there's even a work mode of play! In addition to all of this It's also $10.00 cheaper 
 if you buy a direct download from the website. Hope this review helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hex_ten
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Anybody that has ever watched the film 'wargames' should be able to recognise the quote in the 
 intro to this review, but have you ever wondered what it would be like to play 'global thermonuclear 
 war'?
  
  Defcon from introversion software is a game of mutually assured destruction, the basic premise 
 is to wipe out as much of the enemy population and reduce their capacity to cause your population 
 harm. However protecting your own population can become difficult once the silos go live and there 
 are tens of nukes heading your direction.
  
  The game starts you off in defcon 5 where you are able to place your radars, silos, airfields and 
 fleets within the borders of your territory (which on the world map could be North America, South 
 America, Europe, USSR, Asia or Africa) . Each territory has its own distinct advantages and disadvantages 
 - like being spread out? Try Africa or Asia; prefer defending a smaller area with a larger concentration? 
 Go Europe or South America.
  
  The game includes a few tutorials that will cover everything you need to know to competitively 
 play the game online or with computers. The simple and easy to use interface gives you all the 
 control you need to successfully manage to juggle a variety of complex plans and tactics on the 
 fly.
  
  The one downfall of this game is the sound or lack of variety, the soundtrack is brilliant and 
 really adds to the atmosphere and there are a few ingame sounds. I feel that there could have been 
 a few more sound effects put in; such as countdowns or some voice overs for certain events, the 
 sound is a very small part of the game so this is an insignificant pitfall.
  
  The graphics are sharp and suit the mood of the game perfectly. And because of the simplicity of 
 all of the icons this game does not take a hard toll on your graphical or processing power. Even 
 with 6 players launching at the same time I experience no lag on my mid range pc, the results of 
 a 6 player total launch are eerily beautiful, the skies fill with colour and death as everyone 
 scrambles their jets to intercept.
  
  The game is best played online with the tactical unpredictability of other human players to second 
 guess. It is much like a more complicated game of chess with a set number of pieces but millions 
 of tactical possibilities.
  
  Over all this game is outrageous value for money and will give avid tacticians hour after hour 
 of enjoyable gameplay. I would recommend downloading the demo today and giving it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  DEFCON: Everybody Dies is a game of innovation, and very fast-paced gameplay, taking the meaning 
 kill or be killed to a whole new meaning as you struggle to click fast enough to land you nukes 
 befores your enemies do.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  A very addictive gameplay, consisting of placing units, silos, and radars, and then attacking your 
 enemies with your arsenal.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics here are it's very innovative interface, with customizable colors, and icons representing 
 your units move creepingly along, until the missiles and fighters start flying.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  Kind of empty on sound here, except for the melancholy music it plays while you 
 blow stuff up.
  
  Value: 7/10
  A good price of $17.95. Not good for those Internet-challenged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I was scared off at first while playing DefCon, it did seem alot to learn and soo hard to learn 
 something new when your sooo used to the normal format of playing RTS. However afetr awhile i got 
 the hang of the game and it ended up being pretty simple. It has quite alot i'd put into my perfect 
 RTS game and i love using the real world and the whole world map. I also love the idea of diplomacy 
 settings aswel altho it doesn't go as far as i'd like it to in this game.
  
  Only realy problem i have with this game is it gets very repetitive and you'll probaly not replace 
 your current RTS for this game. Thats cool though cause i think the developers were just aiming 
 for a small fun game to give you something innovative and fun.
  
  The graphics are very clean and nice too and really make the game soothing to play. You wont be 
 on the edge of your seat and doesn't need you to pay attension like other RTS.
  
  The sounds are really nice and soothing too however theres a lack of it but i think thats just 
 the nature of the game and i can't really fault them for what they were wanting to do.
  
  Overall the it's a fun and very simple side game you'll play once in awhile and it's pretty innovative 
 and i think future RTS games may even borrow from it. For like &pound;10 it's a bargin too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fecing
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  To begin with, when the demo landed on my lap, i thought 'oh noes, heres another one of those crazy 
 cheap game builds that will break every 5 minuites' However, i was pleaently surprised when the 
 engine was very solid, albeit, basic. the idea of Defcon is to obliterate your opponent with Nukes, 
 from carriers, subs, airfilds and your own ground based silos. against the AI, you dont have a 
 hope. they have the massive advantage of being able to calculate strike times, and i have never 
 beaten them. not once. on easy. so, dont play on your own. Playing with freinds on the other hand, 
 is a totally different story. since you all have the same handycaps, you can play on a level playing 
 field, and get really stuck in. It's especially satifying to hear towards the end of the game, 
 ok, who has nukes left then you answer with a full scale barrage across an entire contenant while 
 they scream like their populus into oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkuman09
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  DEFCON subtitled Everybody Dies is a real time strategy game by the indie gaming company Introversion 
 Software. Introversion already has a good reputation for making other unique games such as Darwinia 
 and Uplink. The game is based in the Cold War and is greatly inspired by the movie Wargames. You 
 start each game at DEFCON 5 and eventually get down to DEFCON 1 in which the game turns into all 
 out nuclear war. After around 80% of all the players nuclear weapons have been used a winning timer 
 starts (45 minutes by default) and whoever has lost the least civilians and inflicted the most 
 damage by the end of the timer wins. Really you can't win in you can only lose less (just like 
 what it would be like a real nuclear war) . Either way you are going to lost millions upon millions 
 of people, it's a good thing there has never been a all out nuclear war before! DEFCON really has 
 a great atmosphere to it, it's disturbing a tense. The very clean and undetailed art style really 
 make you feel like your controlling the the end of the world from inside a bunker deep underground. 
 The very tense instrumental music really helps contribute to the whole end of the world type feeling 
 the game is trying to evoke. There are some very subtle ambient sounds too you can hear someone 
 coughing every now and then and I believe near DEFCON 1 you hear a woman crying which really evokes 
 the seriousness of the game's whole idea. DEFCON is a good strategy game that really makes you 
 think, even after you done playing. About how close we were to this really happening, and about 
 how horrible nuclear weapons really are. It's really just outright disturbing the first time you 
 see something like London 2.4 mil. dead . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterpimp69
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  ... hopefully a lot more than me.
  
  the game play mechanics are very simple, the graphics are very simple and the sound is eerie. on 
 a morale side of view this game is instant death for flower power hippies or pacifists.
  
  BUT IT IS AWESOME!!!
  
  i never played a game this rudimentary and deep like defcon. style 
 gets defined by this game... i mean... what does a general see when he orders the global thermonuclear 
 first strike? i bet he would look at a greenish earth-alike screen with symbols for missile silos 
 and ships just exactly like you do when playing defcon.
  
  the first time i played against human players i was totally hyped to nuke my foes into stone age 
 and furthermore to loose less people than them. it is a long time ago i felt something like that 
 in a computer game.
  
  very nice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cacapoopoodoodo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 17, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  defcon makes a change in game development with old school tactics with high tech weapons but it 
 is also a incredibly difficult game if you do not know what but if you do know what to do you will 
 have the pleasure if blowing the heck out of the Americans one my life long dreams (im not a terrorist) 
 all in all the thrill of killing millions but the learning of where your opponent is and planning 
 a stratigical strike in the heart of there country and defending the certain strike on your own 
 cities high tech power and BIG explosions you can not go wrong with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobthomas101
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Defcon: Everybody Dies is cool if you are into no graphics all strategy. I personally like more 
 fast past games and can deal with slow paced ones if they have payoffs. This however is neither 
 fast paced nor rewarding. I am normally into both FPS and RTS games. However this RTS is very boring 
 and not very fun. You control a country of the world with their nuclear arsenal and have to decide 
 which losses are necessary. There are nuclear subs and you have to place your radar and silos and 
 strategic points, but it is still very unexciting. It is a cheap game and goes for about 15$ on 
 steampowered. com but its still a waste. Don't purchase this game unless your having trouble sleeping. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pushy2
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  Awesome game really....... has to be played..... the graphics are low whit a big L but in this kind 
 og game it does'n matter..... this game is worth buying... at least for me . Hope this review will 
 make you buy and play this game.... see  
 as a sa as as a sa sas a s as a s as a s a sa as asaasa as asa s as as a sasa sa asa s a asasa 
 sa sa asa sa sa sa sas as a sas asdasda asdasdasdasd. asdasdasdasd asdasda sdasd asd ad aaa a a 
 aa a a aaa a aa a aaaaa aaaa aaaaa a aaa aaaaa aaa aa aa a aa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grarap
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  DEFCON is based on a great idea, lets get that straight. There's nothing more satisfying than nuking 
 a city and causing millions of innocents to evaporate. Unfortunately that situation doesnt come 
 round much. The game is extremely hard to master and territories are inexcusably unbalanced. For 
 instance Europe is nearly impossible to hit as all of its cities are covered by anti-missile sites. 
 South America is usually forgotten whilst Africa is normally the first to be anhialated due to 
 the proximity of some its major cities to borders and the sparse distribution of the rest. Learning 
 to play each side correctly is a long task. Either you time your attack perfectly and win by miles 
 or, as in most games, get nuke'd. You can only really stand a chance by launching either a coordinated 
 attack (fat chance says your ally) or sending off all your nukes at once. Watching 100 missiles 
 hit a country within a few minutes is only fun for the first few sittings; having to use brute 
 force the whole time is hardly tactical.
  
  Not only that but some game modes are a nightmare to play. The first that springs to mind is Diplomacy, 
 where all sides start off on the same team. One unlucky played will be kicked out early which consequently 
 leads to strife amongst the rest as they waste nukes or refuse to fight. Then there's the backstabing, 
 the constant defection, the wasting of missiles, tension: its just ARGH. It doesnt work, and considering 
 games last +30 minutes DEFCON is a deeply unsatisfying experience.
  Buy at your own peril. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_spread
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Hunkered down in an underground bunker, you gaze at the monitor and contemplate what those symbols 
 actually mean. Thousands of feet above you, hundreds of Inter Continental Ballistic Missiles are 
 raining down on your country. The aggressor? Africa. Who the hell would have expected that? The 
 first warhead glides towards the East coast, to be shot down by your air defence silos. A couple 
 more are taken down before your defences are overcome and the bombardment hits home. The last thing 
 you read before the screen erupts with white is NEW YORK: 14.6M DEAD.
  
  The scenario is simple; it is the end of the world, and you must kill as many of your enemies 
 citizens as possible whilst trying to defend yourself from them doing the same. Global Thermonuclear 
 war is never as clear cut as there being winners and losers, but DEFCON plays on the principal 
 that one side can lose less. You begin a round by selecting a region which has got The Bomb, North 
 America, South America, Europe, Africa, The USSR or Asia. Gameplay is controlled through the different 
 DEFCON conditions, with five being peace time and one being World War Three. Every game starts 
 during DEFCON 5, where you will place airbases, missile silos, and satellites and deploy naval 
 infantry such as aircraft carriers and nuclear submarines in tactical areas, both offensive and 
 defensive. This carries on throughout DEFCON 4, and DEFCON 3 is where you can send fighter jets 
 over enemy territory for reconnaissance, and possibly begin scrapping it out in the sea, and DEFCON 
 2 is more of the same. But with DEFCON 1 comes the time to break out the Jammy Dodgers, nail your 
 furniture to the wall and cower under the stairs, as its time to nuke the hell out of everything
 
  
  DEFCON is about detached as a game can get. There are no cut scenes, no voice over, and no music 
 other than the sounds of the bunker you are sitting in; the hum of processed air, the distant sounds 
 of a tannoy system giving orders to the bunker, garbled radio chatter, the weeping of a fellow 
 government employee aware of what is happening outside, and the shrill interruption of a claxon, 
 indicating the launch of a missile. It really makes the game feel more than just a computer simulation, 
 and that you are actually dictating the final devastating actions of the modern world before it 
 all ends with a blinding flash.
  
  The presentation is equally uninvolved, reporting the details of megadeaths caused and received 
 with complete indifference. Aside from the pop up text, the only other report of a nuclear hit 
 is the white cloud left behind a minute or so after impact. It doesnt elaborate on what has happened, 
 leaving your mind to contemplate the destruction it signifies. The presentation is simple but undoubtedly 
 sharp. The computer simulated world map shows the earth and key locations like cities with a cool, 
 clinical blue interface. Coastlines outlined with jagged edges, and populated zones filled in with 
 colours, the brighter the colour the greater the density. This is interrupted by the presence of 
 enemies and allies missiles arcing their way across the sky. When every nation launches simultaneously, 
 the screen becomes awash with neon confusion. When you zoom out for a moment and look at the arcs 
 blazing across the sky, it all seems menacingly beautiful, even if it does mean your cities are 
 about to become slightly less populated.
  
  To mix things up a bit, there are various different game modes available. Office mode takes a minimum 
 of 6 hours to play, and comes with the ability to quickly minimize the action, perfect for giving 
 the impression that you are working rather than nuking the world. Speed DEFCON by contrast takes 
 only 15 minutes to play. Here, carefully planned strategy is pretty much thrown out the window 
 in exchange for frantic nuking action. Then there is Alliance mode, where every player begins on 
 the same team, but after some backstabbing and a break down of communication the coalition will 
 eventually crumble and everybody will kill each other. These can all be played with AI players, 
 but they fail to offer the challenge and unique fun an online match can offer. For instance, you 
 can attempt to kick someone from your alliance, but if too few people agree with that notion then 
 the whole group will be aware of your traitorous intentions, and you will have to think fast to 
 worm your way out of a nuclear retribution. Or you can stick with an alliance right the way through 
 an entire match, only to completely turn on them and unleash that silo primed with nukes on your 
 unsuspecting friends as the victory timer begins to tick. Of course, you will have to deal with 
 one or two jerks, and sometimes the person hosting the server will close it down, exiting the whole 
 game, but these are normal irritations that come with online games.
  
  DEFCON is an immersive experience. The first couple of times I played it, I found it genuinely 
 unsettling, and whilst that did give way after a while, it still remains one of the most memorable 
 games Ive played in a while. You can pick it up for a steal from Steam for about &pound;10, which 
 does reflect the lifespan; with only one map, there are only so many strategies before it starts 
 getting repetitive. But at that bargain price, you really shouldnt care. Its a lot more interesting 
 than a nice game of chess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaimzl
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  although this game is chilling it has a bad side to it.
  
  gameplay is to basic for my standards but very fun. i also find its slow paced until defcon 1 where 
 nuclear missiles fly everywhere.
  the graphics are basic but they fit the style of the game perfectly like your looking at radar 
 and telling your **** where to go.
  sound is chilling the music in the backround makes you feel as if you were one of those people 
 that just died out of 10mil in tokyo japan when you bomb it. the one thing i dont like about the 
 sound is the effect when a nuke hits. it doesn't make your body shake but it does suit the music.
 
  Great Bargain totally worth the money
  overall i think it is a fantastic game so im giving this an 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 6, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  There are few other games like this out there. It's quite an original approach to the concept of 
 Nuclear War. It's certainly an emotional experiance to play it. You're torn between it being feeling 
 elated at a victory... but haunted that you are simulating the genocide of MILLIONS of people in 
 the game. The graphics are simple, but VERY effective, meaning it can run on almost any computer. 
 The sounds is good and the music haunting. The gameplay is fun, but perhaps only for the first 
 10 to 15 times you play a match. After which, things get a bit samey and repetitive. Overall, a 
 very interesting RTS game. The multiple Defcons flavour the experiance and the multiple time speeds 
 allow for skipping boring interludes in the fight.
  
  Very reasonably priced, made by a good Developer: Introversion. Get it from Steam or the Introversion 
 site. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexChec
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Like Pac-Man, Missile Command, or any other of the great arcade games, DEFCON shows that you don't 
 need a lot of flashy graphics, a John Williams soundtrack, or a Hollywood feature budget to make 
 a good game.
  
  There is only one goal in this game: Nuke 'em all while minimizing your own casualties as much 
 as possible - and when the s*** hits the fans, it's not going to be too possible. That's all you 
 need to know, that's all you need to learn.
  
  But that's not to say there isn't any strategy involved. Do you focus on a first-strike approach, 
 or wait for everybody to let their guard down as they launch Armageddon to slip in some of your 
 own fireworks? How long is your ally going to be your ally before he decides that, yeah, it's time 
 for him to win the game at your expense?
  
  Introversion has minimized complexity so you can focus on just playing the game; and because it 
 only takes 22 minutes in real time for a missile to find its way from Siberia to New York City 
 (and while you can speed up the end of the world in the game, there's something to be said for 
 watching all 22 minutes it takes for impending doom to explode brilliantly over your city) , you 
 can pack in a lot of games in a day, either with your friends or against a decent AI.
  
  Because the point of the game is basic, the graphic and sound quality has to be considered in that 
 context. For this game, all you need are wireframe map and units with some somber music in the 
 background; after all, you're about to watch hundreds of millions of people die. So, no, there's 
 nothing cutting edge going on here, but there doesn't need to be, and so you don't miss it.
  
  DEFCON allows you to play out all those Armageddon scenarios you watched Joshua simulate in 
 WarGames, and its simple presentation in favor of what can be a rather complicated game makes this 
 a welcome change from the almost endless line of MMORPGs and FPS' which are flooding the market 
 today.
  
  And, to be sure, the first few games you play will make you feel... odd. You will find yourself 
 both detached from and eerily pleased by the deaths of all those people outside of your private 
 war room just so you can play the unwinnable game.
  
  However, if you're the kind of person who can't stand to lose, you should avoid this game. You 
 will be nuked, millions of your people will die, and in the end there's nothing you can do about 
 it. You don't win in DEFCON, you lose the least - and Introversion has made that strangely satisfying.
 
  
  ~*~*~*~
  
  Reviewers system specs:
  
  Toshiba Satellite P105-S921: 1.83 GHz processor speed (Centrino Duo) , 1 GB RAM, NVIDIA GeForce 
 Go 7900 GS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  this game is an average joe.
  the hilarity of nuking washinton can only last for a few minutes, then you move onto tokyo, then 
 london, then egypt, iraq for kicks, then afganistan just to be sure.
  overall, this game takes you back to the older years of gaming. the retro 'wargames' film to game 
 is what i would of expected from a sharewre company, not introversion. look at introversion's history, 
 uplink, the best oddball of the century. then darwinia, also the best oddball of its time. but 
 they sort of lost it here. it seems like they just didnt know what to do.
  its good for a few hours, then you think why the hell did i buy this game? .
  it just doesnt 
 feel like a proper game. i would have expected this to be better than what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swillard888
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I found this game extremely good, in the way that it shows that you do not need amazing graphics 
 or 1000s of people working on a game for it to be good. It has such a simple way of playing, but 
 as soon as you hit defcon 3 or 1 make sure your straight in there or someone will be on you!
  
  A good quick game, which you can set up AI in seconds to play. Also the quantiy of modes for 
 what you get is good value. I bought my copy off steam for $14.95, which is around &pound;8. I 
 would say that there needs to be a build up on multiplayers, most of the room s are demo players 
 or passworded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoaDKiLLD
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  The map and the ambience really makes you feel like you are ordering a massive nuclear strike and 
 dragging in the four horsemen before their time.
  You start to feel queasy as the white blips engulf your cities, radars, and most importantly, silos. 
 The strategy in this game is amazing; its simple, to the point, and easy to operate. Sure theres 
 some micromanagement, but it wouldn't be global thermonuclear war if there wasn't. The graphics 
 are cold and retro like they are in Wargames. A plane looks like a plane, a boat looks like a boat, 
 and a nuke looks like a nuke. The only thing that could have been better would have been a way 
 to manually change the defcons at certain pre-determined points in the game, or at least to have 
 the defcons change at random intervals within a set. But all in all, it was a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goN_PL
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Defcon was made by Introversion Software. It's their third game (they also made Uplink and Darwinia) 
 and first game that featured multiplayer. Although it features only multiplayer (up to 6 players 
 +3 spectactors) it is made fairly through. Without having any storyline 'cept for overwhelming 
 whole world it loses its potential. Defcon isn't a game that can give an excuse for no storyline 
 because of it's gameplay. It's no Battlefield. The graphics are quite elegant but it doesn't change 
 the fact that whole game is a mess. You would assume that Defcon is based on WarGames movie of 
 1983. Yes. That's right. It really does but it's a really slow and boring game. Don't touch it 
 if you don't like games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunammer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 24, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The game that is just like the wargames movie! This game amazes me. I can't believe how addictive 
 this simple game can be. I love the environment! Most of the people I play with online are friendly 
 which makes my experiences with this game that much more enjoyable. This game is similar to the 
 game chess. I mean that it's really easy to learn and play overall, but it is difficult to actually 
 master the game. You can do what you want and it will have an effect but you will need strategy 
 if you want to win or lose the least as they say. You basically can't win in this game. The objective 
 is to lose the least amount of people while killing everyone else. I know that it may sound rather 
 unsettling when you talk about how you HAVE to kill innocent civilians to win , but you will get 
 use to it =P
  
  Anyway let's just talk about the pros and cons about this game shall we?
  
  Pros:
  - Easy to pick up and play! That is after the tutorial of course.
  - Great, simple 
 gameplay. Has incedible depth and potential.
  - Even the graphics aren't 3d with all of these crazy effects you see in many games, it's really 
 good for what it is. It gives you that computer simulator feel and i think that its over all good 
 graphics.
  - The sound does it's job well at setting the mood with the sound effects and music playing in 
 the background. Very cold-war like!
  - Small file size and over all good performance on my computer. This game can really bog down on 
 low end computers even though it's 2d.
  - Great online play and environment.
  - Excellent interface and environment. Sets the cold-war theme/mood.
  
  Cons:
  - Can bog 
 down on low end computers which is really strange.
  - There seems to be some connectivety issues for some users when playing this game online. Hasn't 
 happened to me yet but it's been posted on the forum.
  - Graphics can be bad if these things aren't you're thing.
  - Rather limited sounds and music 
 can be annoying somethings. There's a sound of people crying and that tends to annoy me at times.
 
  
  If I were you, I would pick this game up. For only about $20, I would say that this is a pretty 
 good deal with the things you are getting out of it. I fyou aren't sure, then I suggest that you 
 download the demo (only 50 megs) which gives you a good idea of what the gameplay is like. However, 
 it restricts you to only two players in a game rather than 6 players (Which is so much more fun) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptisth
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  One of the few games that these days offer a strong experience. Kinda reminds us of our high-school 
 days when WAR GAMES came to the movies. I almost weeped when I saw the GUI and made the connection 
 with the 90's movie about the global thermonuclear war game between the boy and the machine... 
 Anyways the game is as challenging as a good game of chess, bluff and intuition always playing 
 a strong part in the multiplayer experience. A final thing I have to note is that either u win 
 or loose the game there is always a bitter feeling in your gut that remains no matter how much 
 you think to yourself that this is only a game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacktalon81
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  http://www. everybody-dies. com/downloads/
  
  Very few games evoke such deep feelings, and do it so subtly. It is worth it to feel the sadness 
 for the state of this world. To walk away from the game ill at ease and a little scared. It is 
 subtle, but let it affect you. We do not have to become desensitized to this.
  
  The pace is radically different from most games. The real-time speed is majestic. It takes 20-30 
 minutes for a nuclear missile to fly over the ocean. Do you think someone would tell you if one 
 was launched? How would you spend your last half hour? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeapstab
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was designed from the same team as Uplink. Like Uplink they bring you awesome entertainment 
 in the simplest game platform design possible. No big fancy computer needed to run this, great 
 for travelers with laptops. For such a small size game this packs a punch with fantastic simulated 
 graphics and game play. I sat here for hours playing this over COD2 or Oblivion. The sound and 
 music is also really good but the music gets old after a while. If anything I think Introvision 
 should add the ability to play custom mp3 tracks or have a bigger set of similar songs. Good job 
 Introvision A+. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenalinDragon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  DEFCON: Everybody Dies? Not a very big budget game I see? I've never even heard of it! were the 
 many replies I got from friends and relatives about the game. Yes, you won't find DEFCON sold in 
 the shops, but I can tell you now that this is easily the best strategy game of the year. So you've 
 seen the screenshots and you're probably thinking Jesus Christ those graphics are rubbish! but 
 have you ever had a second thought that graphics don't need to be top of the range in this present 
 day to make a good game? Well, DEFCON proves that the old looking strategy games are still around 
 today and are better than the majority of games in this current generation.
  
  DEFCON is a game where you control a basic world map in the sky. It's 2D and you must choose a 
 territory to place your units. There are six to choose from: Russia, Europe, North America, South 
 America, Asia, and Africa. Once you've chosen your territory you must place your units somewhere 
 in your territory. You have Radars, Missile Silos, Airbases, and Fleets. The Radars are used to 
 increase your range and accuracy. The Missile Silos are used for air defense and lauching nukes. 
 The airbases are used to shoot down fighter aircrafts and bomb cities with nukes, and finally, 
 the fleet are used to attack on water. Once you've done that, you have 5 DEFCON stages to strategize. 
 You cannot rebuild or build any more units after DEFCON 3. If your units are destroyed then you 
 can't get them back, simple as that. DEFCON 3 allows you to attack with aircrafts and fleet, but 
 when DEFCON 1 comes up, this is where all of the fun (and disaster) begins!.
  DEFCON 1 is truely where the game starts to play. This is where you can launch nukes and bomb cities. 
 The trouble is, you've only got a limited amount of nukes you can launch with your silos, so you 
 have to use the nukes on the subs and bombers as well, which requires alot of strategy. You also 
 don't know where the opponents' units are either. However, you can see their cities, and they'll 
 probably reach yours first. You must use fighter aircrafts and air defense to defend your territory. 
 The game starts to get hard when they start to launch a seemingly countless amount of nukes at 
 you at the same time. Your air defense just can't shoot them all down. However, while they are 
 doing this they become more vunerable to attack, so there's a better opportunity for you to attack 
 them back with nukes.
  When the nukes and bombs hit the cities, you lose a large amount of population, usually in the 
 millions. Each million of the population lost gives you 1 point, so if they bomb your city and 
 take out 3 million people, they get 3 points. If you bomb one of their cities and get 15 million 
 kills, you get 15 points. It's a good scoring system, and can be modified on how you want to score 
 in the full game. Once you and your opponent (s) have nuked a certain amount of cities, the victory 
 timer appears, and when that reaches zero the game ends.
  
  It's a pretty complex strategy game, but it's pretty fun online as well. With the demo, you are 
 limited to only play 1 opponent and 1 game mode. You can't change the options either. While DEFCON 
 is still fun on the demo, it's just not as great as having 5 opponents on the full game. IT'S A 
 BLAST! is how I would describe it. Spectators are also welcome to join the game as well, however 
 they'll miss all the fun if they do that.
  Strangely enough, there isn't a single player mode anywhere to be found on DEFCON. There's only 
 a Join Game or New Game option. Anytime you do the New Game option, the game always assumes you 
 want to play against someone online, so it just goes to show that DEFCON was always supposed to 
 be online anyway. However, you can turn online mode off in the options so it's not too much of 
 a problem. You can choose how many computer opponents you want, but there doesn't seem to be a 
 CPU difficulty setting, so the CPU is more balanced out on here. Also, the Join Mode lets you join 
 an internet or LAN game online. DEFCON has many different game modes. One of them is the Office 
 Mode, where you play a match for 6 hours and you can't pause the game at all. Even when you minimize 
 the game it's still running because you get told what events are happening in the game. It's a 
 great mode to use if you work in an office because you can just minimize the game by pressing the 
 escape key. Other than that it's pretty much the same as the original mode.
  The other mode named Speed DEFCON is almost like the original mode except you only have 15 minutes 
 to finish the match, because the game is always at a fast speed and you can't change it. Pretty 
 fun nevertheless. BigWorld is literally a world that's twice as big, and you get double the amount 
 of units as well! The only catch is that the units range have halved and it makes the game harder. 
 However, the best mode in my opinion is Diplomacy, where all of the teams are the same alliance 
 but then they break up slowly (or fast, it depends) and the last survivor wins the game.
  
  The graphics in DEFCON are actually really good! They may be 2D but the sleek and flash presentation 
 of the game makes this game look modern. Sure the units arn't detailed at all but I think it's 
 pretty cool seeing a nuclear world map launch nukes all over the place without being too detailed. 
 My only complaint would be that everything moves super, super slow if you don't speed the game 
 up. Plus, the style editor lets you change the colours of the map so you could have a green map 
 or a red map if you wanted to. You can literally customize all of the graphics in this game.
  
  The sound in DEFCON is probably the worst part of the game. There's only one music track and 
 although it works pretty well it would be better if there was more music in the game. In Office 
 Mode all of the sounds are turned off, so that's ok and in a way the game is better without the 
 music. However, it's not too much of a problem. There's not many sounds but when you bomb a city 
 you can hear some sort of explosion noise which is pretty cool. Other than that there's not really 
 that much sound in the game.
  
  I think it's amazing to see a game like DEFCON become a huge success. The developers arn't really 
 the biggest in the market and they've managed to pull off one of the best strategy games ever made. 
 Having them sell this game for only 10 quid is amazing, and it's an offer you can't refuse. You 
 won't find it in the shops, but if you go to www. everybody-dies. com you'll be able to buy this 
 awesome game from there. I think it's funny to see how a game I've never heard of until this week 
 became my favourite game of 2006. (so far) Just goes to show, you don't need top of the range graphics 
 to make a good game like this. Maybe the developers will release this in the shops, but whatever 
 happens, don't miss out on DEFCON. Best Strategy game of the year no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 13, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  A first glance DEFCON may look like a nintendo 64 game or even worse. But behind its simple graphics 
 DEFCON is a crazy fun game that will have you and your gaming friends laughing and playing for 
 many hours. DEFCON is a very small game at 64 megabytes and rumors say that if you delete the sound 
 files you can get the game to 2-5 megabytes! The game has realistic sounds of children crying and 
 alerts when a nuke fires. Gameplay is loads of fun and there is nothing more exciting than watching 
 a mass of your nukes smash into your foe's large cities killing millions. For only $15 it is worth 
 its price. DEFCON also has a message in the end, in nuclear war no ones wins its just who survives. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kastanok
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 11, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  Hear the one about the six super-states, the 300 nukes and 6 billion civilians? The nukes were 
 launched; everybody died. Not very funny, is it? No, but it's a hell of a load of fun.
  
  Based upon the 80's film Wargames, DEFCON is Introversions third game. It's half way between chess 
 and Risk, meaning most games are won or lost before a shot it fired. The player controls one or 
 more regions of the world and a set number of buildings and units for the entire game. Once you've 
 lost those units, or the civilians populating your cities, you can't get them back.
  
  Over the course of about half an hour (using the standard rules) , the game progresses through DEFCON 
 levels 5 through 1. Each level allows you greater access to your units abilities. DEFCON 1 and 
 2 means you can only move your naval units (including destroyers, carriers and submarines) . At 
 DEFCON 3 and 4 your navy and airforce (fighters and bombers) will engage enemy units. And at DEFCON 
 5, it's thermonuclear war. Anything goes as nukes fly across continents and oceans, wings of bombers 
 bear down on cities and submarines surface off your coast to wipe out key cities and outposts.
 
  
  They key to the game is timing and placement. Spend half an hour directing your submarines to the 
 enemy's coast and they'll be in place just in time to surface at the very moment that their missile 
 bunkers switch from air defense to missile deployment. As is the case with most units, these missile 
 bunkers have two states. Each has its own strengths and weaknesses and takes minutes to switch 
 between, leaving them vunerable for an age.
  
  DEFCON, like Uplink and Darwinia before it, is packed full of atmosphere. Minimalism is the word 
 with the world map displayed in simplistic, angular lines and units represented by arrow heads, 
 boxes and hemisphere type symbols. When a nuke lands on a city, there's a white blot obscuring 
 the map for a while, green radiation spreads across the land and plain white text which politely 
 informs you how many million people have just died. A low rumble marks the detonation of such a 
 missile, which brings me to the music. The music is about the only sound at all in DEFCON and it's 
 limited to strains of something similar to Barber's Adagio for Strings and the off cough or sob. 
 Yet this simplicity is remarkably engaging. While a singleplayer option is available, the true 
 game is in multiplayer. Team up with friends or strangers for a tense 3 on 3 match, wondering if 
 they'll stab you in back and whether you should stab them first, or pile in on a free for all game, 
 where the world attempts to obliterate itself.
  
  There are a range of different and fully customisable rule sets for both singleplayer and multiplayer 
 games (which both use the same menu system) and it's easy to find a random game to join. However, 
 it's very difficult to find a particular server or friend at this point. There are no options to 
 filter servers and the servers shown to you is intentionally restricted so Introversion's machines 
 can cope with the massive demand. Hopefully, these niggles will be fixed in future but for the 
 time being they do hold the score back.
  
  Buy it, start it, find a stranger... then blow the world to pieces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerrALtheIBLE
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I have played DEFCON for several days now. It's a great concept and beautiful to watch unfold. 
 However the game has one major feature that will make you Love it or Hate it.
  
  DEFCON was designed with micromanagement as its Primary gameplay feature. I'm not exaggerating. 
 Here are the specifics.
  
  None of your mobile units move without Individual Unit orders from you.
  
  All orders must 
 be given One Unit at a time.
  **Exception in a naval group all of the same type of unit can be set to one type of mode at once**
 
  
  Each carrier and airstrip can only launch One unit at a time with a long delay between launches.
 
  
  Fighters almost invariably crash from running out of fuel unless you give them orders to land earlier.
 
  
  You cannot assign movement way-points.
  
  You cannot synchronize attacks using any type of in-game mechanic.
  
  What will the game do 
 without being told?
  1. Silo's will perform air defense.
  2. Aircraft carriers will sink subs (but only in anti-submarine mode)
  3. Submarines will sink 
 ships (but only in active sonar mode)
  4. Battleships will attack any surfaced ships and aircraft.
  5. If an aircraft is inside the 
 fighter's combat range then the fighter will engage.
  6. If a naval unit is inside the bomber's combat range AND the bomber is in naval combat mode. 
 The bomber will engage.
  
  Things you must micromanage completely:
  
  Launching any aircraft
  Bomber interception using fighters
  Making fighters land instead of 
 crash
  Defending specific units
  Patrol routes
  
  These have all been pointed out already in the DEFCON patch request forum. And they have all been 
 shot down by the Devs because they reduce micromanagement. Please read the forums at www. everybody-dies. com 
 and see for yourself.
  
  Now for my scoring.
  
  Difficulty: HARD
  You are fighting the interface to gather information and give unit orders every single moment of 
 game-play.
  
  Learning Curse: 4+ hours
  It takes 4 hours just to figure out how to orchestrate movements and attacks with multiple units. 
 If you want to do any large strategy expect to spend more time learning how to Coordinate your 
 mouse clicks.
  
  Classification: Mixed reactions
  
  This game is all about micromanagement. Some people like that, some people don't.
  
  Gameplay: 
 5
  All hinges on micromanagement, that's it.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The graphics are simple but well implemented.
  
  Sound: 6
  Appropriate music and sound effects. 
 Only noticed 2 songs and about 7-10 sound effects total during game-play.
  
  Value: 8
  DEFCON multi-player implementation is average, but missing some features like the ability to chat 
 after a game or play with the same group again.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 7
  I admit not liking this game. However I know that's just because I don't like micromanagement. 
 It's easy to see how other people may love the gameplay so I'll give a sorta average-good score 
 of 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelibertyjap
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Defcon is an RTS with a unique twist. Unlike traditional RTS games, Defcon requires no laborers, 
 resources, or population limits. At the start of each game, allowing up to 6 players playing on 
 teams or individually, each player is given a set amount of radars, silos, airports, and naval 
 fleets. There is a clock which countsdown from Defcon 5 to 1. With each stage in defcon, a new 
 level of assault is allowed. Defcon 5 is peaceful, 4 allowing view of the enemy within range, 3 
 non-nuclear combat, 2 being much like defcon 3, and finally 1 allowing for all out nuclear warfare. 
 The gameplay is solid with no noticeable glitches and offers a variety of users to enjoy this game. 
 The graphics, although simple, are very polished and look great even if they are 2D. The sound 
 is on par with the graphics, simple but polished. The game offers a very in-depth and intuitive 
 tutorial to get you into the action quickly and help you learn the controls. The downside to this 
 game, like most RTS, is time. If you play online in a room using real-time, games can last as long 
 as 2 hours or more. Luckily Introversion thought of this problem and added a nice speed adjustment 
 interface at the top of every player's screen. If all players request the same time acceleration 
 the game will comply. Game speeds include real-time, 5x, 10x, and 20x. Overall this game is very 
 solid with a great price tag of $15. I would like to see some more variety, in the content department, 
 released in a future patch. There are several game modes and options to help mix up gameplay but 
 the map is always earth and it tends to become repetitive after several hours of continuous play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorlin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Defcon is Introversion's answer to the public's plea for a multiplayer game. Everyone wanted to 
 see Uplink go MP and maybe some wanted Darwinia to do the same but neither had the network code 
 to do so. That's fine since both of those titles are classic hits in their own right and Defcon 
 brings to the table a very simplistic game: play online or against the computer to form alliances, 
 break apart your enemies, break said alliance and tear down who used to be on your side before 
 they counter-attack.
  
  Nobody wins at this game and that's probably the most intriguing point. In a world of WWIII, everyone 
 is going to nuke everyone else and it's your sole goal to lose the least and by that, that means 
 more of your cities surviving, hence your civilians survive longer. Destroy more cities of your 
 enemies and lower his score by burning out his civilians.
  
  It's a bit detached the first couple of games because people really don't think about what they're 
 doing until it starts flashing up things like Tehran hit: 1.8m dead or London hit: 2.3m dead or 
 New York hit: 3.9m dead . I know I sat back and reflected what true nuclear holocaust would have 
 been. Very addictive game and very light-weight, proving yet again, the bedroom programmers of 
 Introversion can make games in this era of realism and graphics that don't require a $400 video 
 card. Amazingly done! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SniperWolf9090
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 15, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Finally a good game of the end of time as we know it. This game is good in many ways. It is innovative, 
 realistic, destructive and is still fun to play! But it has some problems with finding servers 
 on-line. Or maybe it is only me that have that problem;-) . What can be more fun then to exterminate 
 whole cities? It is just like the movie WarGames . But here YOU are in control of the destiny of 
 the world! This is an instant classic... worth your money. All 10$. Too bad it is already a game 
 that has the name WarGames. but the name DEFCON is ok but it is still not the same.... well can`t 
 get all you ask for. The soundtrack gets annoying after some time, but all other sound effects 
 are really exciting. Make sure to turn the bass all up! All i have to say is buy it and play it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amagill116
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 4, 2006 11:42 pm PT
Review:  When i play this i think of the movie war games . This game should be played on a 12 foot tall 
 screen. Music is superb, and changes pitch depending if you are winning or not. Style is great, 
 makes you feel like the president ordering full release of all nuclear weapons. Gameplay is great, 
 different units and buildings, and how you use them can make or break you. Strategy and counter 
 strategy. This game is a must for RTS players, its simple and satisfying. The demo is almost fully 
 functional. Also try out another game from this developer, Darwinia. Great game there too. Totally 
 unique stuff but still strongly rooted in strategy. RPG players stay away, this doesn't have cute 
 little pets, or happy dwarves. The title says it all, Everyone Dies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 4, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  The lads at Introversion are genius. They have created a game of mass destruction which for all 
 intents and purposes should have the anti-gaming lobby up in arms. But they have created such a 
 surreal, almost mellow gaming environment where this carnage takes place. And while DEFCON is a 
 fast-paced and quick thinking game to play, watching DEFCON is akin to a gaming representation 
 of Hamlet. And it works so well. Whether playing against the tough computer opponent, or online 
 against the growing number of players, DEFCON will please to no end the majority of gamers. DEFCON 
 puts you in the shoes of a general of a country on the brink of inevitable global thermonuclear 
 war. It's going to happen, so don't fight it. At DEFCON 5 you are required to place installations 
 and heavy weaponry through your territory to both attack your enemies and defend your cities. From 
 DEFCON 3 you position, strategize, re-position, strategize and at times spa with your opponent 
 with some aerial or naval combat. By DEFCON 1, the gloves are off and anything goes. You have an 
 extensive nuclear arsenal at your disposal and (with a bit of thought) it's time to unleash this 
 arsenal whilst being prepared for similar attacks or the counter-attack. Points are awarded for 
 enemy cities (population) hit, lost for home cities that have been hit, and collateral damage is 
 a double point loss. But in the end, it's about wiping out your enemy.
  
  The graphics, like all of Introversion's games, are simple, effective, haunting and beautiful. 
 Sticking to the Tronesque style of parts of Darwinia, the world map of DEFCON glows a resonant, 
 charming glow. Representations of cities, units, installations and nuclear explosions are simple 
 but effective. Wait until you've seen five or so players launch a massive attack simultaneously. 
 It's a spectacle. There's no 3D models, no HDR, no super special stuff here. Just a simple, effective 
 and surreal interpretation of the apocalypse.
  
  The sound is also sparse and haunting. The music settles into the background and then unsettles 
 with it edgy soundtrack as things really start to happen in the game. The nukes gentle sizzle and 
 explode away and the in game bleeps and effects are a retro delight. However, the women and kids 
 coughing is one of the few major errors of this game - the developers had done so well to make 
 the whole experience an otherworldly and almost impersonal experience, but it does come back to 
 earth with this effect.
  
  DEFCONs gameplay probably cannot be ultimately judged so soon after release, but there is no doubt 
 there is a serious amount of strategy, tactics and gamesmanship that will keep this game ticking 
 over both against the computer and online for some time come. There is a wealth of options to formulate 
 your attack and there is the added factor of alliances made and destroyed which will lead to desperate, 
 ad-hoc measures. Its going to be easy to shaft an ally, as easy as it is for an ally to shaft 
 you. This will be a treacherous game online as you seek the right moment to turn on your erstwhile 
 brethren that maximizes personal advantage.
  
  The units are well balanced and provide warfare and battles on a number of fronts. Setting up installations 
 correctly is essential to protecting your population. Radars, silos and airstrips have both attacking 
 and defensive qualities and in partnership they can be devastating. Silos can launch multiple 
 nuclear missiles, but they are a defensive unit if not undertaking this task. Radars need to be 
 maintained and well placed to give you enough warning of an enemy attack. The airstrip has the 
 exploratory fighters and the nuclear capable bombers ready for action. There are also battleship, 
 tankers (that can carry fighters and bombers) and nuclear capable submarines that can take the 
 battle to the sea.
  
  Strategy and tactics are a must. Each team has strengths and weaknesses and this will lead to some 
 interesting match-ups. You have no choice but to use trial and error when you start, and you 
 wont be able to resist a full on nuclear launch on your first game. Its great fun, but you will 
 be caned by the counter attack. Timing and positioning is everything. And ultimately, so is the 
 score. Getting in front is hard and staying front is harder. But there will be memorable gaming 
 moments in DEFCON. One particular example is a game where I was held at bay by my opponent, with 
 my last resort a 15 + nuclear strike in a populated area I hadnt done any reconnaissance on. It 
 just happens that there was only one airfield protected the surrounding cities, so the barrage 
 led to a 50 point turnaround and a lead to be protected, which I did but only just.
  
  Without a doubt there are limitations to DEFCON. There is only one map with six possible team options. 
 I am a bit disappointed I could not defend my mighty home country, but I'm going to put faith in 
 the modding community to not only tweak the current map that is available, but also create some 
 new ones as well. It really can be quite confusing at first, but once you've crafted a style it's 
 an easy game to play. But it's also a hard game to master.
  
  However, the detached, surreal environment won me over. One should real back in horror when Lima 
 is hit by a nuke killing 6 million innocent people. However, it occurs in almost an operatic style, 
 with melancholic music playing in the background as the offending apparatus glides almost glacier 
 like to its target. A white dot appears, the bass of the explosion is barely audible and the toll 
 appears on the screen, almost matter-of-factly. And so the game glides on, an irresistibly charming 
 alternative to the overt violence of other war and online battle games.
  
  I have played quite a few games against the very tough and aggressive computer AI (I am just starting 
 to get the wood on him in a few scenarios) as well as some games online. I can see myself coming 
 back to this on a regular basis, with the average game taking 45 minutes to one hour. It's a very 
 good length for a single game, actually.
  
  I purchased DEFCON for US$9.95 on Steam. Great value for any game. At a mere 65mb it doesn't take 
 up precious space on the hard drive and it is the sort of game to come back to every week or every 
 month.
  
  DEFCON is more fresh and innovative gaming from Introversion. I was a bit apprehensive when learning 
 this was primarily multiplayer based, but it certainly works very well for the time being. Its 
 main limitation may have the ultimate say in the life of the game, but as it stands the game is 
 a must play for any serious gamer. This is war. But despite the map of our humble planet, this 
 is a very surreal, otherworldly war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 8, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I first checked out the demo and was very intrigued by this game's unique strategy style, and odd... lure. 
 Despite the fact the graphics and sound are relatively dated compared to any RTS game today, they 
 do exactly what everyone has been saying graphics are meant to do (in most cases) ... enhance the 
 overall game experience. And the neat looking neon blue map, with all the sharp and simple unit 
 icons are very fitting for this type of game. Though the gameplay may seem limited at first, once 
 you begin to dive deeper and deeper into the game, hundreds of strategic questions begin to cross 
 your mind. How should I build my fleets? , How many subs should I group into a fleet? , Where should 
 I place those subs? , Should I strike first at the toll of DEFCON 1, or should I hang back until 
 he has exhausted his nukes, only to then launch an all out strike on his cities? The list of questions 
 go on and on and on and on. So even though on the surface this game appears as simple as a game 
 of checkers (not even chess) , you soon find it does become an intricate game of Chess. Moving the 
 right pieces to the right spots to provide the opportunity for the ever so pleasing checkmate :-D 
 haha.
  
  For some though, this game will get mundane and boring quickly if you are not patient enough to 
 try different facets of the game, try different strategies (going from overly aggressive to more 
 passive) , and much more. I'll admit sometimes this game might get boring. But for the most part, 
 even in the beginning when you have to decide what to do with your units is extremely involving. 
 You truely feel like a Cold War general who has just been handed an executive order to prepare 
 for all out war with the Commies. And when those nukes begin to hit your cities (cause some are 
 bound to get through) it turns into a frenzy to save as many as you can, and take down the silo's 
 before they go back to their air defense mode.... I could go on and on, but now I shall retire. 
 Try the demo for a while before deciding if this is the game for you. If you do decide it is, then 
 you are in for one heck of a ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlfaSub000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  This is hands down the best game I have played this year. The strategy is deceptively simple: deploy 
 your bases, maneuver your units, and when the game reaches DEFCON (defense condition) 1, nuke the 
 holy $#!% out of everyone else. The innovation in this game results from how they perfected the 
 gameplay, graphics, and mood of the game. You might think from the basic nature of the units in 
 this game that it's simple and repetitive. Nothing could be farther from the truth. The nuances 
 of base placement, unit deployment, and each of the game's seven regions can make each match feel 
 very different. And if you want even more variety, you can experiment with the game's different 
 play modes. These modes changes the rules in a small way, but often radically alter the strategy 
 needed to win. For those of you who look for more than just gameplay, the graphics in this game 
 are great too. They don't excel in the holy crap, that looks real way, but in the same sort of 
 simplistic beauty that Darwinia, the company's previous game, captured. The world is displayed 
 in neon wireframe sure to make you feel like you're in an underground bunker, directing the last 
 war the world will ever see. Look at the screenshots. My description here just doesn't do the game's 
 beauty justice. These graphics are a big part of the mood of the game, which also is perfect. The 
 haunting soundtrack and subtle ambient cues bring the game alive. Meanwhile, the stark, white messages 
 proclaiming New York hit, 22.8m dead convey, in a brilliantly detached way, the scope of the conflict. 
 All of these pieces come together to make you feel like one of the last people alive on Earth. 
 The final bonus of this game is the price. I could buy two games like this for the price of one 
 mainstream game, and spend twice as much time playing them. If you don't have this game, go buy 
 it. You'll never think about global thermonuclear war in the same way again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oirish_Martin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the boys and girls (the very small number of them) at Introversion have done it again and 
 released yet another unique masterpiece - and they've even very kindly classifed its genre for 
 us - DEFCON is a genocide-em-up. 
  
  Set in the style of the Cold War classic film Wargames, you take the role of a general in a bunker, 
 whose only view of the outside world is a large map of Earth with all its major cities. Within 
 a few short minutes of starting a game, the world will inevitably spiral towards a nuclear war 
 of mutually assured destruction as DEFCON 5 becomes DEFCON 1..... or will one side come off the 
 victor of a battered world?
  
  DEFCON divides the world into several territories - Europe, North America, South and Central America, 
 Asia, the USSR (although bizarrely ex-Iron Curtain countries like Poland and the Ukraine are part 
 of the European territory) , and Africa. Australia presumably continues having barbecues in an effort 
 to stave off the cold of nuclear winter.
  
  It is your duty to defend the citizens of your territory's cities from the many horrors of nuclear 
 attack. In a rather callous fashion, you gain one point for every million enemy citizens slain 
 and lose two for every million of your citizens you fail to protect.
  
  The first two DEFCON levels (5 and 4) are relatively peaceful - this time is used to deploy all 
 your allocated units (either from a fixed pool or a customised one) on the world map in order to 
 attack and defend. Each unit is critical to success in its own way, and like many other games, 
 there is a fine balance involved with all of them.
  
  Radar dishes are your first priority, as they have the longest line-of-sight of any unit in the 
 game and can see almost everything coming their way . This allows you to spot incoming nukes from 
 a long distance so they can then be shot down. Their weakness is they are totally defenceless and 
 one nuclear attack will destroy them, so there will always be a tradeoff between how much you want 
 to defend some of your more distant monitoring stations and how far you want to be able to see.
 
  
  The most important decision you will have to make is where to deploy your missile silos. Not only 
 do they have a stock of 10 ICBMs capable of hitting targets anywhere on the planet, they also double 
 as anti-aircraft defences, so you may want to place these near your population centres. Critically, 
 they cannot fire nukes and down enemy nukes simultaneously, and transitioning from one ability 
 to another takes several minutes. Not only that, but firing an ICBM permanently marks the silo's 
 location on enemy maps, so picking your moment properly is essential.
  
  The next most important assets are your airfields. These launch both fast short-range attack fighters, 
 good for engaging most naval and airborne targets, as well as shooting down nukes if you're lucky. 
 If you lose some, don't worry, they are replenished at the airfield itself, albeit very slowly, 
 so don't be too reckless with them. Each airfield also houses five slow moving bombers, which can 
 either unleash a powerful anti-naval attack, or use their long range flight abilities to fly to 
 enemy cities to drop short range nuclear missiles. Despite their weakness, you will resort to using 
 bombers a lot more often than you think you will - their range and the fact that their nuke launches 
 don't trigger huge alerts on enemy maps make them very useful.
  
  There are then three classes of naval unit - battleships, carriers and subs. Battleships can attack 
 naval and airborne units but are very vulnerable for subs. Carriers are essentially mobile airfields, 
 but without the ability to regenerate fighters. They can also depth-charge enemy subs. Subs have 
 average anti-naval ability, which improves with their active sonar ability, but makes them vulnerable 
 to counterattack. You will most often use subs for their onboard medium range nuclear missiles, 
 however bear in mind this forces them to the surface where all units can attack back at them.
 
  
  All of this may sound tricky at first, but the tutorial covers all aspects of gameplay while giving 
 you the chance to launch a lot of nukes.
  
  While DEFCON does not have the complexity of C&amp; C Generals, don't be fooled by the simplistic 
 units - the balances between units and the tradeoffs you have to make in order to attack and defend 
 properly make you consider each battle properly. If you order your bombers to repel a naval attack 
 early on in the game and you fail, you will then have five nukes sitting uselessly in your airfield 
 for the remainder of the game. If you are not careful with your carriers, five more nukes will 
 sink to the bottom of the sea. Each tactical decision must be weighed up - even moving your fleets 
 can be risky, as due to their slow movement, by the time you realise you've let a wolfpack of subs 
 into your waters, your cities be crumbling.
  
  DEFCON's gameplay has an interesting dynamic in that the nuclear missiles you have are for all 
 intents and purpose, a resource. How you deploy them can make or break you - firing missiles from 
 your silos too early leaves you unable to defend yourself from a similar counterattack. Firing 
 a few of your missiles too early can also illicit a panicked response from your enemies, and sometimes 
 50 nukes too many then rain down. The game duration also revolves around nukes - when the total 
 number of nukes remaining is less than (usually) 20% of the original, a timer starts counting - 
 the person with the highest score at the end of this timer is the winner. 
  
  Scoring is computed via a very callous system; which is just one example of how Introversion have 
 gone out of their way to bring home how sterile warfare waged in this fashion can be. Sending your 
 first nuke against a city and seeing NEW YORK HIT: 25M KILLED flash up on the screen gives some 
 a chilling feeling. The one aspect of the game set up to deliberately contrast with this tone is 
 the ambient soundtrack - a melancholic set of tracks, overlaid with the wooshing rumbles of nuclear 
 explosions, and occasionally, the coughings and screamings of suffering human beings.
  
  The game is graphically very simple, but the map has some very useful overlays that depict territories, 
 radar coverage, orders given (movement and target lines) , population density, and units with nuclear 
 weapons. Other neat little details are the trails all units leave behind them, and the slight green 
 tinge of radiation left behind. The sights of dozens of missiles creating arcs over the Pacific 
 Ocean, with luminous green clouds and glowing white fireballs floating over ravaged cities is sometimes 
 an intriguing and downright perverse beauty of game design.
  
  The game allows you to play against up to 5 CPU opponents, but you can also play online, with several 
 different game modes besides the basic one described here. Most games have a couple of spectator 
 seats, so you can watch the proceedings unfold and learn and discuss tactics as you do so. Naggingly, 
 there seem to be no filter options in the game listings as of yet, but as this game is being supervised 
 by the ever-more present Steam, an update can't be far away to fix this - and it's a testament 
 to how good DEFCON is that I have to resort to this for a criticism!
  
  So, there you have it. Introversion game no. 3 - DEFCON. It's cheap, it's easy to obtain over Steam. 
 Buy it, and let it blow you away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  It can be safely assumed that it is not many peoples dream to devastate the world in a cataclysmic 
 nuclear war. Well, Ronald Reagan and his Soviet counterpart may have been the general exception 
 to that rule. After all, the idea is simply M. A. D. (Mutual Assured Destruction, or a lose/lose 
 scenario) , surely? However, that is exactly the situation which the players of DEFCON must face. 
 Inspired both by the 1986 comedy/drama WarGames, and the 1964 satire Dr. Strangelove, DEFCON 
 delivers an experience which is both ironically good fun, and ultimately a poignant emotional experience.
 
  
  The basic premise of DEFCON is that you are a military general, or some other such leader, knuckled 
 down in your secret underground bunker, and for some unknown reason, the diplomatic negotiations 
 have failed, and all-out nuclear war has been declared. You are tasked with defeating your enemy 
 by killing that largest number of civilians using your nuclear arsenal, whilst the enemy does the 
 same. Introversion Software likes to call it loosing the least. Sounds quite cheerful, no? The 
 overall game is very simple right from the get go, and also very small, only taking up about 60mb 
 of hard disk space. However, this does in not in any way dampen the experience.
  
  Controls are easy, simple to use, and quick to learn, and the tutorial levels spell it all out 
 very nicely. However, it is clear from the outset that this is a difficult game to truly master, 
 requiring lots of detailed strategic thinking. In fact, strategic thinking is really the nub of 
 the matter. Many questions will circle round your head while playing, causing constant internal 
 debate. Should I strike first? Should I counter-strike? Should I launch the entire arsenal all 
 in one go or keep a reserve handy? It is all up to you, and your decisions may be crucial in deciding 
 the overall outcome of the war. It is in many respects simply a nuclear combat game of Chess.
 
  
  You are able to play as one of six continents, North or South America, Africa, Europe, and North 
 or South Asia. There are many different options which can be adjusted to change your game to how 
 you see fit, meaning that the game can be played in a number of different ways, including a nifty 
 mode where the game plays in the background over six-hours; perfect for a dull day at work. Peculiarly, 
 I experienced a quite nasty guilty pleasure when raining down the apocalypse upon the enemy. You 
 cant help but feel some subconscious guilt whenever there is a direct hit on a major city, and 
 writing flashes up calmly informing you that: London hit, 8.9 million killed. It really is quite 
 unnerving at certain points, such as when you zoom back to view the entire map, with numerous missiles 
 arching across the sky. I doubt there is another game in existence where you can exterminate more 
 innocent virtual people. However, the game is designed purposefully so that you experience this 
 guilt, and realise how fruitlessly useless and stupid nuclear holocaust actually is.
  
  Graphically, the main game window takes the view of a two dimensional map of the world, an extremely 
 similar layout and style to the 1980s command screens used by the Pentagon in the film WarGames. 
 It cannot be understated that the game looks wonderfully cool, feeling crisp, militaristic and 
 clean. The blue tinge to the world and basic graphics add to the 1980s feel. There are no flashy 
 animations whenever a bomb drops. Instead, the area whites out, just like a radar map, with an 
 ominous dull rumbling noise. The many moving objects leave dotted trails behind them which gradually 
 fade over time. Overall, it almost convinces you sometimes that you really are controlling a superpowers 
 military armoury.
  
  The sound is really superb, and it is clear that choosing a more sombre and subtle soundtrack was 
 a master stroke. The music is fantastically haunting, and really adds to the overall atmosphere, 
 making me wish there was a lot more of it! All the time in the background, there is the humming 
 of the bunker machinery, radio chatter, distant footsteps, machinery bleeps, and occasionally the 
 quite disturbing sounds of people coughing and crying. By the sounds of it, they could be suffering 
 from acute radiation sickness. It is mostly the sound which really gives the game its poignant 
 side, and shows the real futility of this type of warfare in real life.
  
  Overall, the moral message of DEFCON is similar to both the films of Dr. Strangelove and WarGames. 
 Global Thermonuclear War may seem like a good idea, and is fun as a game, but ultimately in real 
 life it is just plain idiotic. Once you have learned this message, you can really experience the 
 full value of this game. It has wonderful replayability, a genuinely classic format and excellent 
 multiplayer. The only slight negatives are that a longer soundtrack would have been really great, 
 and that if you wanted to play as Australia or the continent of Oceania as it is now known, forget 
 it, as it is an ultimately redundant landmass in game. There is still the slight chance of this 
 being resolved however, as Introversion is continually updating and perfecting the game. These 
 really are only slight quibbles, which if included, would have made the game really superb.
  
  DEFCON is truly a game that shows that it is actually possible to fight in the War Room. Now, 
 how about a nice game of Chess? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolutionbr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 1, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This game proves that small companies can make great games. It's fun, simple and provides hours 
 of explosive fun! A masterpiece for strategy game lovers!
  
  It proves that good games don't need uber-realistic 3d graphics. It's simple graphics make us feel 
 just like a General on his underground bunker on the 80's, ready to nuke the entire western continent. 
 The game is really simple and it's an interesting concept. It may be a bit confusing on the beginning, 
 but you can learn it fast by following the included tutorial.
  
  It's a great game, small companies aren't dead and great games can be done with low budget. This 
 game is surely worth it's price and the mix of its elements and turning out your room lights surely 
 makes you really feel like a general sitting on his chair and ready to nuke half of the world. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergamer1289
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  JUST A GREAT GAME! Gameplay is simple. Sound is amazing and might bring you to tears. The graphics 
 are great for what is needed. For $15 it feels like you are steeling. BUY THIS GAME! The gameplay 
 is a simple click the unit then click where you want it to go. UNfortunatly there are not that 
 many units to pick form. THe graphics are a simple 2d RTS but this game is not going for 3d supergraphics. 
 THe backround music is nevershaking in a good way. When your nukes hit the city there is no giant 
 explosion just a white flash and the words New York Hit 10.6 million dead depending on the city. 
 The value is one of the best parts of this game. ONLY $15 off steam. This game is just plain SUPERB! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wamzip
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  I read about this game a few months before it came out and downloaded it the day it was realeased. 
 I was not dissapointed. It has everything Darwinia had and more; Great retro graphics, simple but 
 intuitive interface, great gameplay. What it does better than Darwinia is induce a range of emotions. 
 I don't know about you but I've played so many games over the years that involved killing so many 
 people that it just feels plane ordinary to kill digital characters now, I don't even hesitate. 
 Defcon does things differently, it takes killing to an all new level. There's no blood, no gore 
 and the people you kill aren't even rendered but it's a hugely different experience than your standard 
 game. When those nukes start flashing over the enemy cities and the body count starts coming in, 
 there's a huge sense of satisfaction and guilt all mixed in.
  
  I've already had a good few hours play out of it and I haven't even gone online yet. I think I'll 
 be getting plenty of play time for my &pound;10. My only gripes about this game are 1-it's not 
 possible to set yields on the warheads (Although I can't see how they would have fit that in with 
 the gameplay so It's a minor gripe) 2-There's a rather annoying sound of a crying/coughing woman 
 in the background sometimes 3-You can get most of the game via the demo without paying the &pound;10. 
 If I'd known that I possibly wouldn't have bothered paying for it. All in all, a great little game 
 with some very exciting gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  Despite not liking any of Introversions previous titles such as Darwinina. Defcon is innovative 
 and fun. After only recently becoming aware of the game, i instantly pre-ordered after i saw the 
 screenshots and video's. Perhaps it was nostalgia for the 80's movie War Games, but i just couldn't 
 say no to world map like Defcons, the blue-ness, the.... coolness!
  
  Defcon, for it's price, is brilliant. Although it appears to my very simple, as you play through, 
 you become aware of the intricate strategy that is involved. Where do i position my nuclear subs? 
 which silo's should remain Anti-missle? All these questions, and more, plague the mind of the gamer, 
 eager to nuke south asia to hell and back.
  
  Defcon looks great, the 80's style blue tinted world map is a pleasure to look at and the units 
 suit the games style and work well with the map. The single player is varied in many ways, you 
 can change the number of continents each team starts with, you can change the gamemode, how many 
 players you want to go up against. The first game i played was against 5 CPU's, and after the timer 
 reached defcon 1, well lets just say watching Star Wars Revenge of the sith was relaxing in comparison. 
 However i really did enjoy having the traditional N. America VS. Russia conflict, and much to my 
 distaste, Russia won.
  
  The multiplayer is easily accesible as when you create a new game, it automatically becomes shown 
 on the internet server browser which enables easy access to your friends games.
  
  The sound featured in Defcon is very.... appropriate. Dull music with the occasion womens scream 
 when you nuke a city, it's depressing, yet accurate. It almost makes you feel guilty for launcing 
 3 nukes at Paris. But then again, it is France.
  
  The only downside to Defcon is that after playing for a few weeks, it could be quite repetitive, 
 and although the content is fun, there isn't all that much of it, and the strategy involved could 
 become quite boring. However, for the &pound;10 ($15) pricetag, it's well worth it.
  
  So for a month of thermonuclear goodness, download and play Defcon now. It's cheap, it's simple 
 and it's fun. Buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hmuda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  There are more than Great Multiplayer in the list that could describe Defcon. It's also Amazing 
 , Ambitious , Highly Addictive , Innovative , Instant Classic and Just Plain Fun .
  
  What is Defcon all about? In short: Global Thermonuclear War. But it isn't that simple. Even if 
 the game only features 3 land, 3 naval and 3 aerial units, Defcon still offers an amazingly deep 
 strategy, that will make you think why does the high-budget titles require so many different kind 
 of units.
  
  But lets get down to business and start reviewing the things that always need to be reviewed. First 
 of all: graphics. I can't count how many people bashed the game because it lacks the flashy (and 
 unnecessary) shader effects, they can't go berserk by counting the polygons on-screen and they 
 couldn't get over the fact that you don't see and high-resolution textures all over the place. 
 They miss the point. The graphics in this game is more than enough to do the job. The neon-glow 
 world-map, the simplified unit icons, the simple white flashes after nuclear blasts really give 
 the feeling of the player being in an underground bunker, commanding the region's nuclear arsenal.
 
  
  Next stop: sound. Just like the graphics, it's simply there to do its job and nothing more. The 
 whole tone of the soundtrack really amplifies the feeling of guilt when you successfully manage 
 to earn a simple Moscow hit, 6.7 million dead text on your screen. It gives the game an atmosphere 
 of the slowly approaching apocalypse. The occasional background sounds like a man coughing or a 
 woman crying allows the player to feel that he/she is inside the fallout bunker and he is not alone. 
 Men and Women are around him handling all the required instruments needed to orchestrate a nuclear 
 war (and women loosing their grasp occasionally) .
  
  The last and best thing about Defcon is: Gameplay. With a capital G . As I said in the beginning, 
 this game is easy to learn, but hard (if not impossible) to master. The game features DEFCON (DEFense 
 CONdition) levels ranging from 5 to 1.
  
  5: peace and unit placement.
  4: still peace, but naval units can sail into enemy waters and this is the last time to place your 
 units.
  3: war breaks out. Naval units start shooting each other, you can start sending fighters over enemy 
 territory to scout out where his silos and radars are or send bombers from your airfields to help 
 win the naval engagement.
  2: virtually same as Defcon2 but with the tension of the nearing Defcon1.
  1: World War 3. From 
 now on, Subs can launch their MRBMs, bombers can release their own surprises and the best thing: 
 silos can switch from defense to launch mode and send 10 ICBMs each to any part of the wolrd.
 
  
  The very few unit types make sure that no side gets imbalanced. There are subs, who are very effective 
 at making the first nuclear strike by parking next to the enemy coasts but are extremely vulnerable 
 while surfaced and easily sinked by nearby battleships or even depth-charged by carriers even when 
 underwater, there are bombers, that can harass naval fleets or in Defcon1 launch their single nukes 
 onto enemy cities or installations, etc, etc.
  
  The only negative thing about the gameplay is that it features our real world-map, and it will 
 create some advantage and disadvantage for some people fortunate or unfortunate enough to get certain 
 regions. So conclusion: If you like deep strategies that require quick (and often hard) decisions 
 then you shouldn't hesitate to buy this game.
  
  Introversion deserves it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelanismoria
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Introversion has done it yet again with defcon, providing a game thats easy to learn with a surprizing 
 amount of depth offered.
  
  Starting off with the obvious, the graphics: Yes, they are simple, but so what? Graphics should 
 enhance gameplay, not be all that the game has to offer. The classy and sharp graphics provide 
 an appealing and easy to look at interface, its also clear whats going on, and the sharp angles 
 and neon colours definitley make the game appear like that of the 80's cult classic wargames that 
 it was based off of. The music is also excellent for a game of this type, subdued, and morose, 
 adding quite a bit of atmosphere, but is also not intrusive into the game environment, and in my 
 opinion never distracting. The sounds are minimal, but this isnt really an issue in a game of this 
 type.
  
  As for gameplay, its great, its easy to learn, but there are tons of potential strategies available, 
 do you sneak your subs in in ones and twos to try to avoid detection and minimize losses, or do 
 you bring them in in one group for a massive coordinated strike, should you leave your defenses 
 active and rely on your bombers to chip away? and so forth. The only disappointment ive had so 
 far is with the diplomatic system, and thats mainly cause at this point , though its too early 
 to make any real judgements, feels underutilized, but hopefully that will change as more players 
 come in, and players become more familiar with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandro909
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  One look at DEFCON, and you may think it's just some cheaply made freeware game. You'd be wrong. 
 Not only is this a graphically slick looking game, it's also a blast to play.
  
  Gameplay is arguably the most important part of a game, and DEFCON has heaping amounts of awesome 
 strategic action. First off, there are no loading times at all (Thank you God, and by God I mean 
 Introversion) . You can play online or alone, although you may want to stick to MP, as the SP AI 
 is a bit on the hard side for some people. Players can set up alliances, and break them. This creates 
 some tense Cold-War moments, when you really fear whether or not your ally is going to turn on 
 you, but you know they are thinking the same thing about you. Of course, you're always afraid of 
 the enemy launching an attack on you at any time. There are only a few distinct units in DEFCON, 
 but there is so much depth that games can last from a few minutes to a few hours. Games start with 
 players placing their radar stations, airbases, silos, and naval fleets. Once the countdown reaches 
 Defcon 1 status, nukes are usable. The winner is determined by whoever causes the most collateral 
 damage. However, to get to the cities, you usually have to take out some AA units, which actually 
 reduces your score, which is an interesting tactical desicion by the developers.
  
  The game takes place from a 2D top-down perspective, but the presentation and slick look of the 
 game compensate for this. You're given a Tron-style map of the world at the beginning of each game, 
 which shows your territorry, and the territory of your opponents in a different glowing color for 
 each player. Watching the tiny fleets, aircraft, nukes/AA battle it out is actually really amusing 
 to watch. I was surprised how sleek this game looked once I played it for myself.
  
  The game features a mellow but apocalyptic soundtrack, which gets more intense when the fighting 
 starts. And, of course, there are the sounds of nukes exploding, and, as a nice touch to make you 
 feel guilty, you'll hear coughing, screams and crying after nuking a city. However, there aren't 
 any sounds when fleets or aircraft are fighting, which kind of makes sense, because it's like you're 
 watching a radar screen.
  
  DEFCON may have only a few units, but games can have a great amount of depth if you know how to 
 use them properly. It's satisfying once you master each unit's strengths and weaknesses and learn 
 to use them against your opponents to nuke them back to the stone age. Multiplayer games are always 
 interesting, because everyone plays a little differently, and its cool to see people make alliances 
 and set up assaults, on a constantly evolving battlefield.
  
  Overall, DEFCON is a blast to play, if you don't care about uber-graphics. It's definitely one 
 of my favorite games of the year so far, and it's a must play for those wanting to play a game 
 for the gameplay, because in the end, it's all about great gameplay. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
