-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Defender of the Crown: Heroes Live Forever
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/defenderofthecrownheroesliveforever/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Battle cards are a slightly interesting addition to gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't update the 20-year-old original as much as it just repackages it.
 dreary, repetitive kingdom management.
 no tactical depth to battles.
 awful visuals and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 2.0, 3.2 Review (s)
User Score: 3.2, 105 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: E-Games
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jun 26, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Any Defender of the Crown lovers from the '80s should leave their good memories intact and ignore 
 this desecration. 

  Another childhood memory destroyed. Remaking the 1987 Cinemaware classic Defender of the Crown 
 (and giving it the cheesy subtitle of Heroes Live Forever) might have been a great idea on paper, 
 but the game crafted by TechFront Studios is so awful that it tarnishes whatever happy memories 
 you might have of the original. This is more of a repackaging of the first game than a true remake, 
 and the production values are so far below the bottom drawer that they're in the basement. Do yourself 
 a favor and leave this game in the back of your mind's closet along with Reaganomics, Cyndi Lauper, 
 and the rest of the 1980s.  

  While the game box bears a colorful retro look indicative of a reasonably big-budget production, 
 the game within looks and plays like it was cranked out over a long weekend in somebody's shed. 
 The main screen's map of England is blurry and blocky, while battles are brought to life with tiny 
 pixelated stick figures. The action sequences, such as archery contests, jousting, and rescuing 
 princesses, feature animation so jerky that you have to wonder if the developers have ever seen 
 a human being move in real life. Sound effects are practically nonexistent, aside from a trumpeting 
 musical score that's so insistent and annoying you wish that the developers had paid as little 
 attention to it as they did the wimpy smashes or bangs that accompany battles.  

           Actually, you lost the moment that you hit the install button.      

  Defender of 
 the Crown: Heroes Live Forever is every bit as ugly to play as it is to look at it and listen to 
 it. As with the way-back-when original, the goal here is to guide an English hero with a colorful 
 name like Geoffrey Longsword or Wilfred of Ivanhoe from lowly lordship over a single territory 
 to the kingship of the entire country. You do so by killing your five rivals for the crown, conquering 
 all of their castles via turn-based management and battle sequences. Game mechanics retain all 
 of the simplicity of the 1987 classic, making for an awfully austere campaign to claim the throne. 
 Basically, you raise armies at your castle, invade neighboring territories to raise the gold needed 
 to buy even more infantry, archers, cavalry, catapults, or the like, and repeat until you either 
 slay all of your foes or your foes slay you.  

  No serious strategy is involved in any of this; you just buy as many troops as you can then set 
 out to cut a bloody swath across England's green and pleasant land. You can only have a single 
 army, so you can't launch even something as basic as a two-pronged attack. There is no way to save 
 the game, which means that you can't experiment with radical approaches unless you're up for a 
 lot of restarts. Even if you could draw up plans and take risks, your tactics can be quickly ruined 
 by random events that pop up unannounced every few turns. For example, you might be just about 
 to unleash a horde of infantry on Wolfric the Wild's castle when a bunch of your knights decide 
 to go off chasing the Holy Grail. Or you might wind up with a budding leader who lets you buy two 
 units for the price of one for a turn. Who knows? You might as well just roll the dice to see who 
 wins.  

  Enemies who display little artificial intelligence make everything even more of a crapshoot. Some 
 sit back on the defensive until they're wiped out, while some get crazy aggressive and slaughter 
 rivals from the get-go. Generally, your enemies tend to stick to attacking one another through 
 the early stages of matches, as long as you aren't being so expansionistic that you pose a threat 
 to a rival's castle. So you're best off taking just a couple of territories to boost your income 
 then simply sitting back and buying lots of armies. Of course, this tactic is as dull as it is 
 effective.  

  All you can do to liven things up is take on the arcade-style side missions where you shoot an 
 arrow at a target in an archery showdown with an enemy lord, hit the tournament field for some 
 jousting, besiege fortifications with catapults, and try to rescue or kidnap princesses from rival 
 castles. These assignments seem to have been pulled out of the 1987 version, but with no ornamentation. 
 All you do to fire arrows or joust is juggle the cursor, while you launch rocks with the catapult 
 by clicking on a meter and rescue fair maidens by choosing attack methods to dispose of her guards. 
 Robin Hood you're not (although you can visit Sherwood Forest and barter for the help of Robin 
 and his Merry Men) . After one or two rounds of this dreck, you'll find yourself turning down all 
 challenges and leaving those Rapunzels to rot in their castle towers.  

           The original Defender of the Crown was created in 1987, which was about the last time 
 graphics like these looked current.      

  Battles themselves take place in turns on a separate tactical screen, although there isn't any 
 need to think here either. There are just five different types of units available when buying armies, 
 and there are no commands available when heading onto the battlefield. You just select attack or 
 flee and then everything runs on autopilot. Players can alter the outcome with hands of battle 
 cards (the only significant change to gameplay introduced in this remake) that can be purchased 
 on the main screen, but these deal entirely in simplistic tricks that either boost your stats or 
 reduce those of your enemy. Also, they're drawn randomly until you hit your hand limit of four, 
 so it's pure luck whether or not you're going to get one or two that will help buff your chosen 
 complement of troops. For instance, getting cards that crank up the damage of your bowmen don't 
 do you much good if you're loaded up on knights. However, cards admittedly do add depth to the 
 game. If you get the right ones in your hand, you can lead a smaller army to victory against superior 
 opposition, so at least this feature means that battles involve a little more than straightforward 
 number crunching.  

  There's no reason why this remake had to be such complete trash. Sid Meier's Pirates! showed that 
 you can revive and update classics for a contemporary audience, so there's absolutely no excuse 
 for the terrible effort demonstrated here. A game with such an impressive reputation and lingering 
 fan base deserves better treatment than this reheated regurgitation that only serves to show us 
 how far gaming has come during the past 20 years.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: in-somnia
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Couldn't agree more with the reviewer that this was a complete shambles - and whilst vaguely following 
 the plot of the original - prompted me to actually go and get WinUAE and get the original Amiga 
 image from the Cinemaware website! There are thousands of us out there with nothing but the finest 
 memories of the Cinemaware stable of games so why not just do us a favour and bundle all the titles 
 up and release 'The Cinemaware Collection' on XBLA or something - classics deserve to be treated 
 like classics, not disrespected like this. I gave 2 points for this conversion, only as it bought 
 back memories of the great days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adarmus47
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 26, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  What an absolute disaster. Why did I do it. It is like renewing a relationship with that ex partner 
 of who you hold such fond memories only to find that all the things you loved about them now annoy 
 the crap out of you. The point is the past is best left in the past. Our memories are always grander 
 than the reality and this holds true with this game. I remember being enchanted by this game in 
 my youth and was exstatic when I saw that a newer version was being released . Despite the less 
 than enthusiastic review on this very site I excitedly acquired it anyway. Oh why, oh why didn't 
 I heed the warnings of Gspot. If I had those fond memories would never have been tarnished. Make 
 no mistake this game is rubbish. The gameplay elements are pretty much unchanged. What seemed brilliant 
 then now just seems unsophisticated and shallow . It hasn't grown at all. The only things to really 
 change are the graphics and even they are outdated and totally mediocre.
  
  And just like that ex girlfriend who was obsessed with Friends you will soon be leaving it in the 
 past where it truly belongs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allenw007
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  I don't normally write reviews but this is the worst game I have ever purchased. What a waste of 
 $20. 800 x 600 max resoultion? Stupid archery contests where the competitor gets a score of 1 the 
 first shot and then the max score of 5 on the next 4 shots while you must just click the mouse 
 randomly resulting in a score of 2-4. You will lose every time. I didn't get deep into the game 
 as its looks terrible and the gameplay is stupid. Everything the Gamespot reviewer said is correct 
 except the final score. It should have received a 1. This won't even be in the bargain bin, they 
 will probably give it away at Taco Bell next year. So much for Cinemaware classics, as I will never 
 buy another classic from these guys again. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
