-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Delta Force 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deltaforce2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  9, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.4, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 948 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NovaLogic
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It will keep you on the edge of your seat and tuned to the action at all times. 

 In the original Delta Force, you played as a soldier in the US Army's elite commando and counterterrorist 
 military force. The game overcame its graphical shortcomings by delivering top-notch action in 
 both single- and multiplayer modes. Apparently NovaLogic was willing to bet on the same horse again, 
 as Delta Force 2 uses yet another voxel-based graphics engine, but like its predecessor, its gameplay 
 is good enough to buoy its less-than-stellar visuals.  

 Delta Force 2 offers around 45 single-player missions, including 25 sorties split between two campaigns 
 and 20 stand-alone scenarios, in which you must prove yourself against large and heavily armed 
 terrorist armies. In most cases, you'll work alone or with a handful of computer-controlled support 
 teams. Most scenarios involve a clandestine attack-and-destroy mission against enemy bases, though 
 many also include hostage rescue, recovery of stolen assets, and other commando-style objectives. 
 The game also contains a powerful mission editor that lets you craft complex scenarios with relative 
 ease and even provides thorough documentation for it.   

 The mission design in Delta Force 2 is generally excellent. Not only are most scenarios more difficult 
 than the missions in the original, but they also seem realistic and believable. Although some are 
 definitely influenced by Hollywood (one stand-alone mission conjured memories of the train attack 
 scene in Lawrence of Arabia, for example) , even these are a lot of fun from beginning to end.  
 

 Gameplay is very similar to the original Delta Force; once again, it emphasizes lots of long-range 
 sniping punctuated by the occasional close-quarters ballet of full-auto panic fire. In many missions, 
 you can work your way slowly towards the objective by moving and sniping until only a handful of 
 indoor defenders remains. In other missions, time is more of a factor. Direct assaults are almost 
 always a sure recipe for disaster, despite the game's ludicrously dangerous default mission waypoints. 
 For this reason, most missions tend to last awhile - 30 to 45 minutes on the average. Also, you 
 cannot save during a mission, so a lucky shot fired by the final bad guy requires you to start 
 over from the beginning. Another potential problem is a glitch that lets some enemies see and shoot 
 you through wooden or even stone walls. Fortunately, this bug only reared its head on a handful 
 of missions, and always in the same place, but it will undoubtedly irk some players.  

 Yet another possible problem is the graphics engine. By using the enhanced Voxel Space 32 3D engine, 
 NovaLogic made a design decision that adversely affected both Delta Force 2's gameplay and its 
 viability on store shelves. Because the game uses grainy voxels instead of crisp polygons, much 
 of the long-range combat in the game boils down to hunting for moving pixels. Also, because of 
 the exclusively 32-bit graphics engine, Voodoo3 owners are left out in the cold: The game will 
 only take advantage of hardware acceleration (which really only affects objects like trees, buildings, 
 and vehicles anyway) on 3D cards based upon 32-bit graphics chips.  

 Fortunately, Delta Force 2 looks pretty good on a fast system. Even with the inherent blockiness 
 of the voxel engine, the settings and characters look fairly lifelike. In fact, the gently rolling 
 hills and impressive water effects make many of the maps quite beautiful, especially with 32-bit 
 color enabled. Still, the frame rate was very choppy at 800x600 resolution on a 450-MHz Pentium 
 II with a TNT2 card, though it looked fairly good and ran smoothly at 640x480. It took switching 
 to a GeForce 256 card to make the game playable at 800x600. Unlike its graphics, Delta Force 2's 
 sound effects deserve special praise, since they are some of the most convincing weapons effects 
 you're likely to hear in a computer game. The M249 SAW in particular has to be one of the coolest-sounding 
 weapons ever. Other effects, such as the zing of near misses and the bloodcurdling screams of your 
 victims, help to create a highly believable environment that will keep you on the edge of your 
 seat and tuned to the action at all times.  

 In addition to the sound, the gameworld itself is immersive and dynamic; enemy units respond in 
 various ways to gunfire - some come running, some drop prone, and some seem to ignore the offending 
 noise completely. These varied reactions ought to keep you on your toes, since you'll never know 
 in advance. Also, because many of the missions are chock-full of enemies - dozens in some cases 
 - you are forced to hide in tall grass as often as possible, which is a new addition to Delta Force 
 2. Though the grass looks like little more than big pixelated blobs on the ground, it does add 
 a welcome element of stealth. It also works for the terrorists in some cases, as bad guys who drop 
 prone in tall grass become nearly invisible.  

 Other new features include airborne insertions for particular missions. This is simply an automated 
 parachute drop at the beginning of some of the scenarios, but it does add a little element of excitement 
 - especially when you find yourself dropping right on top of an enemy patrol. Also, the game's 
 interface has been cleaned up and improved; you now have access to a minimap at all times without 
 sacrificing room on the screen.  

 However, much like in the original Delta Force, your computer-controlled allies are virtually useless 
 if you deviate from your preplanned mission waypoints, which nearly always take you on a suicide 
 run directly through the heart of enemy defenses. That's because they move based on triggered events, 
 most of which require you to walk over a waypoint. Thankfully, you can modify the waypoints using 
 the new commander's screen. You can also use this screen to coordinate the movements of your teammates 
 during multiplayer games, which are one of Delta Force 2's greatest strengths.  

 Online sessions on NovaWorld are lively, frenetic firefights that are almost certain to turn the 
 game's harshest critics into fans. Delta Force 2 is one of the most exciting and enjoyable online 
 gaming experiences out there, despite the fact that some of the promised features haven't yet been 
 implemented. The game supports as many as 50 players at once and features a wider array of weaponry 
 than before and a new armory building that lets you change your weapon loadout without logging 
 out. However, the new game modes, including attack and defend, search and destroy, and team flagball, 
 are not yet available on NovaWorld. Fixed gun emplacements, which are by far the most intriguing 
 of the new features, are not yet available either. But NovaLogic plans to roll these features out 
 over the coming weeks. Performance on NovaWorld is good over 56K connections and even better over 
 a fast pipe like ISDN, cable, or DSL.  

 Delta Force 2 is a great single-player game with an impressive multiplayer component. Owners of 
 incompatible video cards should make sure the game is playable and palatable before buying it, 
 but otherwise the game should have a widespread appeal among fans of tactical action games. While 
 it doesn't deserve as high a rating as the first Delta Force since the two are so similar, Delta 
 Force 2 can't be beat for free-ranging commando combat.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (38 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force 2 hardly makes any improvements on the First game. With all the glitches of the previous 
 game remaining, this game doesn't even try to do bring in some new changes to the gameplay. But 
 yes, it does bring in a few changes to the Game menu. With two campaigns and lot of quick missions 
 being the only difference to the first game, I wouldn't advise anyone who has bought the 1st game 
 to even think about it.
  The graphics engine is the same as 3 years previous to it's release in 1999. The 1996 engine obviously 
 degrades the graphics quality beyond redemption.
  The AI for and against the player is also horrendous. The team members of the two most common teams 
 - Alpha and Charlie are hopelessly lost. When I need them to draw away the enemy attention, they 
 are not anywhere near to be seen and when I am stealthily creeping behind the enemy lines, they 
 start firing at random alerting the enemy to my presence.
  Old guns and Old terrorist costumes make the game look right out of a dress-as-you-like competition. 
 However the campaigns are comparetively better than the previous game, but it hardly tries to be 
 different.
  So if you own Delta Force 1, then don't waste your money on buying this game. If you don't own 
 any of them, even better don't waste your bucks on either of them. However if you have a 1996-1999 
 computer (10 years old PC) and you can't run a single damn game, then you can buy DF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Justiciero
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  I paid for a game that i already had. That was my first impression. Delta Force 2 is with really 
 little changes Delta Force 1 with new missions. I think they could name it Delta Force 1 v2.0 or 
 something like that.
  
  But i really liked the first one so now i have the same with better graphics and new maps. And 
 i think this one has a map editor , i can't remember but i downloaded the editor for the first 
 game so i don't know if the new map editor was included with the game. Anyway, it's the same but 
 improved. So i changed the 1 for the 2 and played online with better graphics.
  
  No much to say. I commented the first Delta Force so if you want to know more go and see that review, 
 the game is the same, great fun online.
  
  When i was playing this one they released Joint Operations, hahaha, my computer couldn't run that 
 game :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slingrefitte
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  delta force 2 i a damn good game. it is off course wery old, but it was the first game that i played 
 almost all the time. you play some time as a part of a time with four others with you, they get 
 wery often killed so they are not that helpfull, butt its fun to know that you are not allone. 
 the gameplay itself builds up. it is not that hard in the begining, but it gets really hard at 
 the end. the thing that i loved about the game was the multiplayer. the best i have ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryoshi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Despite the glitchyish graphics, this game is amazing. You can play either single or multiplayer, 
 which of course multiplayer is best. You can create your own maps and host them to show them off, 
 or you can simply join another game while going through a varity of many types: deathmatch, king 
 of the hill, capture the flag, team deathmatch, search and destroy, and more. There isn't too much 
 lag surprisingly in the multiplayer game at all, unless there's several explosions and lots of 
 gunfire going off at once. As far as single player goes, there's two campaigns full of missions 
 along with several quick missions. You can also use the mapmaker to create your own single player 
 missions. You can do pretty much edit whatever you want like the enemys' AI, the fog levels, anything.
 
  
  This is by far one you'll have fun with if you're a FPS fan, or just getting started with the FPS 
 genre. Go for it, I highly recommend it. You'll probablly spend hours online with it. Also, the 
 reason I chose 100 or more hours is because the combonations are endless. You can make new maps, 
 play online on new or known maps for however long you want! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: startrek934
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 11, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  This game is a cool old game. I loved the gameplay. I like that you can make your own singleplayer 
 missions but i had problems. First i dident know how to use the map editor but that all changed 
 when i found www. mapmakersheaven. org. That website had tuterials &amp; lots more. Then i was able 
 to make some good singleplayer maps. It is almost impossible to make mods for it. Overall i loved 
 it. I like that in the map editor you have the ability to make the ai hard or easy. It has a good 
 length campian. It also has a thing called quick missions. It has some short missions to play. 
 The quick missions is where all your maps you made go. the amount of players online for delta force 
 2 (df2) is low recently. It stays at about 200 - 650 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GibboViper
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 15, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  Delta Force 2
  
  Ok one thing we have to remember here is that Delta Force 2 is a very old game, released approx 
 1999 2000. Its graphics are very old so I am writing this review from the perspective of what 
 this game was like on its initial release at that time. In delta force 2 you have about 45 single 
 player missions, Each fairly tough to complete and in the style of taking out terrorist installations, 
 supply lines and freeing hostages etc. Again one of the fun things about this game is the weapons 
 and especially the sound of the weapons. The saw sounds amazing and you can almost feel the weight 
 and force of this gun when you let off a volley of bullets. Very impressive. Like wise the 50 cal 
 sniper rifle sounds fantastic and you really feel that when you let off a bullet it is going to 
 change the course of the battle whether it hits or Misses. You are also aware that in Multiplayer 
 mode you can be located by the sound of the rifle going off such is the nature of the game and 
 leave yourself open to knife attack. The weapons certainly draw you in and remain a very attractive 
 feature of the game. One possible downside is the graphics on the game. Yes it is old now but at 
 the time Novalogic chose to go with the voxel space 32 3d engine. This means that instead of using 
 nice polygons that we all so dearly love instead we get grainy voxels which can lead to raggy edges 
 on some objects such as people, vehicles trees and buildings. This was a shame, but again, the 
 weapons and game play as well as its fantastic multiplayer feature online at Novalogic made up 
 for this, making the game hard to stop playing at the best of times. All in all Delta force 2 wins 
 on the design, Multiplayer, and weapons side of things and is let down slightly by the graphic 
 side of things. If you search through the Novalogic servers today I believe that there are still 
 some DF2 servers up and at least a couple of hundred people still playing. Surely this speaks volumes 
 about a game that is 3 years short of a decade old, indeed a timeless classic and set the bar high 
 for this type of genre. Congrats Novaworld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thk123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game was made in 1999, so it is really old. Some people say the graphics let it down, but 
 you have to remember, at that time, these were revolutionary graphics. It has a lot of ups, but 
 quite a few downs.
  
  In Delta Force 2, you are an elite solider working for an American elite group of people. In some 
 missions you work alone and in others you work with a team of 2-4. Although it is to be noted you 
 cannot command them, they just help. There are two campaigns to take on, both with different stories 
 although in both you basically have to save the world from a nuclear war. Deja Vu.
  
  Graphics, they are dismal, really dismal. Everything is pixilated. The gun is 1 colour. Having 
 said this, the game has the best trees I have seen in any game bar Halo2. The scenery interaction 
 is good. For instance if you shoot at the top of a tree it will come spinning of. The gunfire is 
 interesting. Not the explosion at the muzzle of the gun but these strobe lights flying around which 
 represent the bullets. One of the highlights is that if you are on the blue team in multiplayer 
 the bullet lines are blue, if you are on the red they are red. It is obviously deliberate.
  
  The story line is almost as bad as the graphics. It is the same thing in and out, time and 
 time again. Could they not have employed a professional author to write them a cool story. It would 
 have cost relatively little and would have improved the game greatly. They use the terrorist with 
 nuclear war heads story because it is a simple story. It is very easy to base missions around, 
 people feel they can relate to it and it can have a clean finish.
  
  On the other hand, the game play is stunning. If graphics are all that matters then you won't be 
 able to play, but if you can get it in proportion with the game play then you'll love it. The missions 
 are imaginative and rarely repetitive. For instance, in one of the missions you get on a helicopter; 
 fly on it for a couple of minutes with free control, not a video; then you jump out of the helicopter 
 at about 100m onto a moving train. Finally, you then have to clear the train, blow up the tanks, 
 survive the helicopter attack and go through an enemy base then get off the train. You might say, 
 first person shooters aren't original or hard to make, this one has done something, I don't know 
 what it has done, but I LOVE the game play.
  
  The sound is kinda basic, gunfire and the mission briefs do make use of sound but there is only 
 one voice. What is impressive about the sound is that when you wear headphones you can hear what 
 direction the fire is coming from, remember this a 6 year old game. If you play this game, always 
 wear head phones, it makes it soo cool, it is like stepping into a war zone. Noisy and scary.
 
  
  The multiplayer is one of this game's strong points. Some of the novalogic servers support 50 people 
 simultaneously and the games include voice over net technology. Which means you can conduct live 
 speech to people through the game. Not only is this a cool feature but only Xbox live games can 
 do it 6 years later. The multiplayer games include: Death Matches, team death matches, CTF, King 
 of the hill and co-op. The downside is when you host a game you can't just block cheating or kick 
 cheaters. This is a major downside as there are people who become invisible, go to your base and 
 knife you continually.
  
  The weapons are simple but fun. Most of the time you will take a carbine, which has a scope and 
 a built in grenade launcher. Alternatively, for your first weapon you can have a sniper rifle or 
 a variant of the carbine which has a shotgun attachment instead of the grenade launcher. You can 
 have two secondary weapons which can be anything from explosives to armour suits; missile launchers 
 to extra ammo. There are other options but they pretty much fall into those two groups.
  
  Overall, I think it is a great game and that someone should remake it with better graphics and 
 it would be better than any first person shooter. It is a well lasting game (there are still 500+ 
 people on the server) and although there are sequels I haven't played on them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Major_Gamer
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  ok so I might be giving it a low rating but it Sucked the guns were no vary good and when you used 
 a Scope you could not zoom in on your target you could not do much with a Rifle that you could 
 not see your target vary well with the night time jobs were no good you could not see anything 
 with out being six foot away but being that close you would be dead before you see them this games 
 Graphics are so old I see people from the 70s seeing them as the best there was the Sound was a 
 little better but not good I played it and beat it to fast and easy I would say this game is the 
 worst I have ever seen or played but it's not but close to it now I know why I have not played 
 it tell now it's a bad game its old Stuff and there was no Difficulty in the game so I'd have to 
 say it was Vary vary easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatPainTypo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  I played this game so much one summer that I was only sleeping 3 or 4 times a week while working 
 overnight shift. The multiplayer games were unlimited fun. Sadly hackers and cheaters started running 
 rampant on all the NovaWorld servers. At the time, I was on dial up, so i couldn't host games very 
 well. The weapons were quite fun. Knife kills were the most rewarding. Followed by a head shot 
 with a bazooka... lol. I loved run-n-gun with the SAW because of its 250 round belt capacity. But, 
 the M16 with grenade launcer was the next best for fast action with its useable scope for short 
 range sniping. I always enjoyed sniping. I don't think I really ever had a clear favorite between 
 the 2 sniper rifles. It was a lot of fun being a counter sniper. Find a little hiding spot just 
 outside of the main action, and check out all the regular sniper hiding spots.
  
  This game was awesome. Now it falls behind in terms of graphics, but is still a very solid game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king12kong12
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  NovaLogic's successor to it's original Delta Force, is Delta Force 2. This game is quite enjoyable, 
 despite its flaws.
  
  The single player has a decent campaign mode, with two story lines to follow. The plot of these 
 two stories isn't great, but the broken up, individual mission style of the game doesn't require 
 it. These alone are not overly long and difficult to complete. Fortunately, there are a ton of 
 stand alone missions thrown in there, that you can do at any time.
  
  The gameplay is quite enjoyable. Every level is huge and there are no invisible walls to stop you 
 from going anywhere, which adds to the realism of the game. The landscapes are normally very open, 
 with scattered buildings, trees, and other objects. While there are checkpoints laid out for you 
 in each mission, they are not necessary to follow, as long as you still complete all the objectives. 
 In fact, by straying from the waypoints, you can often come up with a much more tactical and fun 
 way of completing the mission. At the start of each mission, you have the option of choosing which 
 gear you would like to equip yourself with, which can also vary the way you go about doing the 
 mission. The AI is not particularly intelligent, and once you learn everyone's position, it often 
 just becomes a matter of sniping everyone off. Still, the game can throw some challenges at you.
 
  
  The graphics are where this game especially lacks. While this game is quite dated now, the graphics 
 were lacking even in it's time. The graphics can actually become a hindrance to gameplay, as it 
 can be difficult to make out enemies if you are sniping them from a far away. The sound is decent, 
 nothing worth mentioning about.
  
  DF2 really shines with it's online multiplayer aspect. With up to 50 players being able to play 
 at once, the action can get quite intense. There are a few different game modes available, asides 
 from the basic deathmatch, which are all quite exciting and fun in their own ways.
  
  Delta Force 2 has both its ups and downs. Still, the game is well worth giving a try, even just 
 for the multiplayer aspect alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcee
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  One of the best online fps for it's time. If you could find a non-cheat server it rocked!!! It 
 was a kool to run around the back of the opfor and come up from behind to snipe to pick up 6-10 
 kills. Also the LAW and SAW were awsome. As for the mission editor,.. well one could make some interesting 
 maps. I've played and made some great arenas and SP maps for this game. This game started my FPS 
 career. The graphics aren't great compared to today, but it was a good time. Voice on net was also 
 something to be considered, back then there weren't alot of games supporting this feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  In delta force 2 there are over 40 single player missions for you to go through. Some of the missions 
 allow you to have a cpu controlled team. Usually you are just killing people and destroying things 
 for your missions, but you will run across a few rescue missions in your journey. The tactical 
 shooting in this game is done very well for a game that is over 6 years old. The saving in this 
 game is lacking though. You can't save while playing your mission. You have to either get all the 
 way through or start back over from the beginning. That is very tedious when these missions aren't 
 short either. All in all though this is a very good game and I would really recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerzrulez
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force 2 is an okay game because its fun to shoot a lot of people but the disappointing things 
 is that the weapons have no recoil and the enemies act like they are brain dead. The graphics looks 
 a little horrible because it as alot of big pixels and when you die you sink into the ground. Also 
 the characters look horrible and not detailed. The sound is pretty horrible because the weapons 
 sound unrealistic. The value of this game is good because there are a lot of single player missions 
 and the multiplayer is good too. I don't really recommend you get this game unless you are a fan 
 of tactical shooters such as the other delta force games or rainbow six games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripcord23
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This is my first PC shooter game and it felt like it could of bin mad today i got it back in 2003. 
 Before that i manley played flight sims i got it in a four pack that came with 3 other games. Delta 
 force 2 gives you the experience of a US solder in the Delta force a elite unit in the army you 
 play around 60 missions based on fictional events around the world. you usely lead a squad of men 
 who you can give commands two they give you good help allot of the time and dont make you feal 
 a lown wolf. you can also use about 8 diffrent athentec specel forces wepons including the M-4 
 M-16 M-40 M-82 M79 MP-5 and lots of others you also get saport from blackwedow a Blackhawk helicopter 
 armed with a 50cal. As you carry out your missions you engage enemys on land sea and air you learn 
 to shoot down helicopters before they get clous there guns are deadly. In the game you fight along 
 side other squads of solders like marines and spetzas. You can also have fun sneaking into a enimy 
 base my truck or bout. The game is generly fun and no matter how old it is you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inimene006
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Ok. The first goos thing aboutm the game is the low price - 3-4 us dollars. 
  The enemies in the game are really stupid, but sometimes it is good to just practice sniping without 
 any alerts or something like that.
  And then the mp. Eaven with a slow connection or while downloading, you can play it. And the graphics 
 isn't the most important thing.
  In some games (like quake 4) , you cant eaven start playing and just enjoy sitting down and sniping. 
 You just have to run and shoot like some freak. But here you dont have to shoot like some psycho, 
 if you see someone, then one shot and that's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoonUnit
Rating: 7
Date: May 17, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I played this ages ago and it wasn't the best game ever, but it did pass the time between 
 DF1 and DF3: LW. What DF2 did tell us is that software accelerated 3D graphics are not the way to 
 go. Say good bye to the Voxel engine!
  
  I did really enjoy playing this game multiplayer with my room mate in college. We wasted plenty 
 of hours on this one and the original. I'd recommend either the original or the third installment 
 (Delta Force Land Warrior) over this one. It's definately the lard in the middle of the oreo. 
 
  
  I'd also recommend Aliens vs. Predator 1 and 2. Very creepy. Don't play them alone in the dark 
 unless you want to wet yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Back to the old times!
  As for the previous Delta Force, this newer version has outdated graphics and gameplay. However 
 the single player missions are still playable. The major positive point of this game is the multiplayer 
 (headshots can be quite frustrating though) . Especially the king-of-the-hill multiplayer is a 
 lot of fun, but the deathmatch and co-op also provide a lot of fun. If you're looking for a shooter 
 with simple but addicting single and multi-player, get this game. You will not regret it. DF and 
 DF2 are still a lot better than the versions that have been released later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force 2 was a fun FPS for its time and should be remembered for it. I played quite a bit 
 of it online and enjoyed all the maps and guns they offered. I remember servers always said "NO 
 SAWS" and if you took one when you entered people would scream and ban you for it. Very funny.
 
  The gfx and sound were decent for the time, but defiently old for todays standards. I wouldnt 
 really recommend this game to anyone anymore because it is so outdated, however if someone was 
 looking for something kind of classic and fun, this could give the flavor their looking for.
  Overall this game defiently deserves a "good" rank, but there are many new and better choices today. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4ya
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty slick but the graphics disappointed me quite a bit. I like the game because 
 it has a create a soldier mode and the single player and quickmissions are fun. This game has probably 
 the worst graphics out of every game I own.
  
  Gameplay: Excellent single player and quickmission allthough I havent played the multiplayer yet 
 but gameplay rocks!
  
  Graphics: Did someone say PS1?
  
  Sounding: Pretty good sounds like the gun fire you can here the ricochet off the ground, the PING 
 sound when you shoot a metal barracks or tank, the explosion noise when you blow up a tank or shoot 
 somebody with a Rocket Launcher. Excellent!
  
  Replay value: This will have you play for maybe 1-3 times through.
  
  overall: Pretty good game 
 allthough it can be better in some ways!
  
  I just got one thing to say about the difficulty. The game is challenging when you have to take 
 out a base and there are hundreds of people surrounding it and when they see and your shot, you 
 usually die if you get shot once or twice! So it is pretty tough!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This was my first on line game I ever played! At the time the graphics seemed ok. The 50 vs 50 
 was real fun! There were a ton of people playing. I even went on line not to long ago, and there 
 is still people playing this damn game! I guess it's a classic, but come on! The graphics now are 
 so choppy. I don't know how anyone could even make out a guys head for a head shot kill. The missions 
 for the single player were boring, and not enough content to keep you busy. It had it's (few) moments 
 though. There's something about this game that I like though, but I can't seem to place my finger 
 on it at the moment. I wouldn't recommend this game for anyone. Just because there's so many newer, 
 and improved games out there. This one is just dust in the wind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Saddler200
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The graphics r very very very pooooor in this game, they just dont look so good at all!!! When 
 your playing multiplayer its pretty hard to c the enemy, so you'll die alot, GRAPHICS DISSAPOINTING!!!
 
  
  Sound:
  Everything sounds so realistic, im mean like y cant they make the graphics more realistic too? 
 No matter the sound is perfect a big 10/10 from me.
  
  Gameplay:
  The singleplayer wont win any oscars or anything but the multiplayer's acually quite fun, but u 
 know wat will make it more fun??? Making the graphics better!!!! OH and theres some confusing points 
 in the game, wich i donno wat it is but yah.
  
  Value:
  Good value if you like multiplayer but if u want it for singleplayer, i suggest u skip this one, 
 and get something like ummmmmmmmmmmmmmmm, acually i dont know so srry.
  
  Overall: 
  u probly would wont to get this game if u have a good internet speed (for multiplayer) but if u 
 dont, dont even bother lookin at this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force 2 is a fun game when you go crazy in a battle field. In the game you are a paratrooper 
 who kills terrorists. The terrorists hav bad AI and bad aim but they stick together in big numbers 
 so there is a possibitly you will die from time to time, your team is a bit smarter and have better 
 aim. Multiplayer is the hardest thing in the game, there are many good people on servers and u 
 will be shot quickly by a sniper, machine gunner or a grenade from a grenade launcher ( the nades 
 look cool when they fly over head) . Sound is average and so is everything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force 2 offers around 45 single-player missions, including 25 sorties split between two campaigns 
 and 20 stand-alone scenarios, in which you must prove yourself against large and heavily armed 
 terrorist armies. In most cases, you'll work alone or with a handful of computer-controlled support 
 teams. Most scenarios involve a clandestine attack-and-destroy mission against enemy bases, though 
 many also include hostage rescue, recovery of stolen assets, and other commando-style objectives. 
 The game also contains a powerful mission editor that lets you craft complex scenarios with relative 
 ease and even provides thorough documentation for it.
  
  The mission design in Delta Force 2 is generally excellent. Not only are most scenarios more difficult 
 than the missions in the original, but they also seem realistic and believable. Although some are 
 definitely influenced by Hollywood (one stand-alone mission conjured memories of the train attack 
 scene in Lawrence of Arabia, for example) , even these are a lot of fun from beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtdewtag
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  As the title denotes this the second Delta Force game in the series. Once again you become a Delta 
 Force solider and it's off to defend the world again.
  
  Gameplay: No real surprise here Novalogic kept with the original game and just slightly upgraded 
 part 2. Number keys were use to quickly call up items you wanted or needed to use. 
  
  Graphics: I felt the graphics in the original Delta Force was better then the ones here in Delta 
 Force 2. But with some fresh scenery not seen in the original Delta Force. I still give the graphics 
 of this game an above average rating.
  
  Sound: Not too much here. A few voice commands from your command center. The enemy would cry out 
 but unless you were on top of them they were pretty hard to hear.
  
  Value: More single player missions plus online play was updated made this game a worthwhile addition 
 to your collection.
  
  Tilt: This game is good to own if you want to collect the Delta Force series. This one is a keeper 
 as the later versions will show some wear as nothing really new is added to the series. That is 
 until Delta Force Extreme.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kq167
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is good. It has a adddictive multiplayer mode and a smart AI in single mode. The sound 
 in this game is extremelly well done in this game. So that if some one is fireing at you, you will 
 know where he or she is. This game brings a hole new meaning to sence of hearing.
  
  The downfall in this game is the single player. Although the Ai is smart, the full single player 
 mode doesnt follow any story line. It's as though they just put a bunch of random missions to make 
 it seem like the game is complete. Thank god that this game has a solid multiplayer otherwise this 
 game would be broken. The graphics are nothing special either.
  
  So if you have the internet, you should wait until this game is worth $2 on the market. Then it 
 would be a real deal!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bond007dude
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Story: No more story about me.
  
  Gameplay-Intense, edge of your seat immersive action. Although there are only a handful of weapons, 
 you can choose want you want at the beginning, but unfortunately you cannot steal them off of dead 
 people. The game is intense, bullets whizzing past, people shouting, screaming, realistic death 
 animations, just awesome! For a game with average AI that often gets stuck on walls this game does 
 one hekk of a job. The helicotpers shooting at you making you want to wet your pants, and you must 
 be a good rocket launcher to take 'em out. Although because of the resolution, the snipering isn't 
 the greatest, it still does the job. Helk, it even comes with a mission editor after you beat the 
 game! 
  
  The mission objectives are well done as well as masking the poor AI on both sides, and the levels 
 are big so you REALLY wet your pants when your getting shot at! And there is some strategy involved, 
 too. The only thing I dont like, however, is the game has the absolute dumbest ending ever, and 
 the enemies always die after one shot. But anyhow this is the first game that I appreciated it 
 having no ingame saves!
  Did I mention the game has realistic death animations?
  
  Graphics-Poor. The guns have many clipping issues, there is no texture interpolation, the textures 
 are poor to begin with, nothing has enough polygons, the terrain is slightly blocky, the resolution 
 is terrible, it runs horrible if you put it on a decent resolution. The tracers and blood are good 
 though. I forgot to mention the game skips frames.
  
  Sound-Great! Makes you scared and feel like Mr. or Mrs. Adrenaline. Although the enemy dialogue 
 is repetitive, it is realistic along with the whizz sounds and shooting noises. And as usual Novalagic 
 does a superb voice acting job.
  
  Value-Since I have no LAN, and Novaligic is EVIL! , I have not played with anyone. But from what 
 I hear it is really good. 
  The single player is good and if your stuck on a level, you can do the single missions, make your 
 own, or do the other campaign.
  
  Tilt-Tis a good game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:51 pm PT
Review:  This is simple: take whatever was in the original Delta Force and imagine that almost every aspect 
 has been kicked up a notch - but not quite there yet. The enemy still show up as dots or specks 
 barely visible or distinguishable even when looking through your scope. The vistas are improving 
 somewhat. Things are looking a bit better such as detail. The graphics are now bearable, but the 
 sound is still very primative. New weapon additions like the Masterkey. The good thing is, Novalogic 
 continues to improve on these issues with the next Delta release in the series. It's like a game 
 people grew up with, even if you dislike it, it is still a part of FPS history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mankvill
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I can't remember how many times I blazed through the campaign or took this game online. If you're 
 looking for a shooter with simple but addicting single and multi-player, get this game. You will 
 not regret it. The single player has missions that will keep you coming back to them. The King 
 of the Hill mode in multi-player alone is worth this game. Best thing is, it's probably no more 
 than 10 dollars now a days! The graphics might be dated, and so do some of the missions, but it 
 doesn't matter. This game is still fun! Go out and get this if you like first person shooters of 
 any kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  Delta force 2 is fun. 
  
  The gameplay: Frustrating singleplayer campaign there is but actually its pretty good too. You 
 cant save thats sad. The multiplayer is much more fun. Wild gunfights its so fun. You can also 
 play COOP which is great its so fun too mow dont terrorists with some of your friends.
  
  Graphics are perfect even today the look amazing. It beats Doom 3 it beats everything. You can 
 see enemys from far far away. The trees also looks very good everything about the graphics are 
 perfect.
  
  The sound is Perfect too you can hear voices you can hear alot. The terrorists when the scream 
 is just play funny too listen too. Man this is also perfect.
  
  You will get sickly much for you money here. Atleast 70 singleplayer missions. And multiplayer 
 that plays perfect with no lag at all ive never seen so much for money before. 
  
  Lating appeal the game is perfect no mistakes only bad ai in singleplayer. Game is just simply 
 a masterpiece.
  
  And i will also add that i like this game better than you even you. 5year old or 70 i like this 
 game more than you either you like it or not Ha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dieasgrey
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2005 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I played this game more than any other game in my life. Squad based fighting at its best. Proves 
 gameplay   graphics
  the strongest trait of this game was the vast size of the multiplayer maps. I think its 4 square 
 miles? Snipers had room to hide and gunners had there areas to fight. Nothing is more satisfying 
 than sneaking up on a sniper youve been hunting for 15 minutes and knifing him in the back.. Cheats 
 quickly became this games downfall though.
  Another greta feature was the map editior. Could make 100's of maps base on one terrain . That 
 combined with no download times for customized maps really encouraged makeig a set of your own 
 unique map sets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 8, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  great fun, if you like fps and more importantly, killing bad guys, then this is the game for you 
 , and with a greast peice taag you can't go wrong soldier, online is far from disapointing too, 
 its great, pure wisdom on a plate, oh yer did i mension great fun, i admit, the graphics are a 
 bit eighteenth century but that doesnt matter in a game of pure genius, and seen as it is a pretty 
 old game you cant blame them, i think they did a bloody great job with the hit, i play this all 
 the time and its an endless classic so i bid you farewell buy and enjoy, thats an order!
  
  BOOM HEADSHOT BOOM HEADSHOT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: predalienX2460
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game was the first shooter in my collection. As soon as I installed it I couldn't stop playing. 
 There are some flaws like the sysdump. txt glitch, which only happens to me when I play online. 
 Delta Force 2 makes the original obsolete.
  
  Graphics-: 6
  Not the best around, might look better if played on older PCs. Sometimes you can see right through 
 the hills and spot enemies and buildings. The terrain looks kind of grainy sometimes.
  
  Sound-: 7
  The sound is pretty good. Bullets hitting metal or whizzing just past your head sounds 
 like it would in real life. The sound of rockets being launched from their tubes is perfectly designed. 
 Dying gurgles and painful yells sound pretty realistic, but not all.
  
  Gameplay-: 8
  Like in real life, rounds can pierce through tents and take down enemies in one shot. With a sniper 
 rifle you can kill three people in one shot if they're lined up perfectly. One flaw is that when 
 you fire your grenade launcher that's attached to your M4 carbine, it disappears when shot directly 
 at people or just doesn't explode. I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys realistic shooters 
 and taking down terrorists with some cool weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_devil52
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 1, 2005 11:32 am PT
Review:  Delta Force 2 is a six year old game created by Novalogic. At the time it was a great game. It 
 gave you smart team mates that could take care of themselves and had a huge online fan base.
  
  Today it's still a good game and at off-peak times there are usually about a hundred people 
 playing.
  
  Not bad for a six year old game.
  
  The singleplayer campaigns are a good place to warm up before you go online. They are challening 
 missions but sometimes you get a bit frustrated because the only thing stopping you from completing 
 a mission was some enemy who wasn't where he was supposed to be.
  
  As a follow-up from the original DF, the single player is a great improvement.
  
  Graphics 
 wise, it's dated yes but that shouldn't stop you from buying it. Look at HL. Those graphics are 
 pretty rubbish by today's standards, but you still get people playing it and it's expansion packs.
 
  
  The sounds of everything are good. From chat between you and your team-mates to the sound of the 
 enemy dying. Very realistic in my opinion. 
  
  Now to the multiplayer side of things. Nova recently added two more servers to its list so it shows 
 they still take care of their old games. DF2 doesn't allow you to have Nova-hosted stats but your 
 character in the game has a basic kills, deaths, games won stats on the 'Choose Character' screen. 
 I don't play in Nova servers because too many cheats are there and it gets boring having someone 
 wall hack through a wall and knife you. Instead i turn to the public servers and there are some 
 pretty good ones there which are dedicated and some have language filters so you can be sure that 
 whoever is playing the game won't be seeing any of that whilst they're shooting people in thehead. 
 ;-)
  
  All in all, it's a good game where the multiplayer is better than the single player but not by 
 much.
  
  Get it if you see it in the bargain bin somewhere, it'll be worth the 5 dollars/pounds/euros/whatever.
 
  
  Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrustyKids
Rating: 5.1
Date: Aug 31, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Delta force 2 is barely worth 5 bucks its singleplayer just passes okay and multiplayer the same 
 the game is boring to watch and play for more than an hour. Its just one of those games you get 
 for christmas say thanks play it once and never touch it again.
  
  you get a few guns that all suck and are the same graphics suck its and glitchy (you can shoot 
 though walls and the AI suck what more bad can be said about this game there are no special things 
 about this game it sucks try hard not to buy.
  
  summary: well it sucks its boring and has no weapons the only reason you should buy it is for the 
 free headset that comes with it uterly appaling
  
  graphics
  looks ugly
  6/10
  
  gameplay
  boring
  6/10
  
  sound
  tinny and fake
  4/10
  
  value
  pay me to play 
 it
  5/10
  
  tilt
  4/10
  
  my score 5.1
  waste of time
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMR597
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2005 1:45 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay on single player campaign is very repetitive just snipe the enimies and dont get shot, 
 since this is a tactical shooter you could die very easily in this game. Multiplayer is great but 
 you always get that one guy that always knifes people.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are crap when it comes to looking for enimies just look for blobs of pixels. The character 
 desgins are horrible. The graphics just suck okay.
  
  Sound
  The guns sound very realistic in this game. And the voice acting is all right. 
  
  Value
 
  This is a good game and it should be very cheap and if you dont mind graphics anyone wanting to 
 get this game should get this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 26, 2004 7:04 pm PT
Review:  It's a horrible looking game, i never really tired the online of it, once i played the first level, 
 i put it back in the box and left it. It's just not a really good game at all, i liked Delta force 
 land warrior alot more then this game. Any First person shooter person i woudn't reccemd this game, 
 it's just plain not fun at all. Don't waste your money on this title, it's a horrible shooter and 
 i think it was one of novalogics worst games ever. I could go on forever about how this game sucks 
 in every way, but i'll just stop here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelsBeast
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2004 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Huge battlegrounds and great weapons, what more could you ask for? The controls are simple and 
 you can learn them in minutes. The weapons fire pretty close to the way they do in real life and 
 one shot with about any weapon will take anyone down. The enemy AI could be improved. If you are 
 any distance away from them they will just drop to the ground and wait for you to find somewhere 
 you can shoot them from. Up close they can be difficult to fight more than 3.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics could defiantly use some improving. The land is all the same and bland 
 with nothing but a few trees or structures where your mission is located. Also the level of detail 
 is extremely low. But the good part is that even on slower systems the game will not skip or lag. 
 Also the graphics really dont take away from the gameplay but they still need improving.
  
  Sound:
  There really isnt any ambient sound, and the gunfire should be louder than it is. 
 The enemies practically give their position away all the time by talking, which brings the difficulty 
 level down some. The worst part about the sound is that there isnt much of it, between gun fights 
 all you hear is your feet on the ground. Insects, birds, dogs, etc would have improved this some.
 
  
  Summary:
  This is my favorite game series, I love to use the 50cal. Sniper rifle and take everyone down before 
 I even get near the objective. If you want a game were you get to play with sniper rifles and a 
 little close combat to go along with it than this is it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  Delta Force 2 is as you guessed it the sequal to the first Delta Force. It's a first person shooter 
 that has some problems but it multiplayer saves it. 
  
  Chose your soldiers face, country of origin, make up a name, and you are ready to go. The single 
 player in DF2 is bad, the missions are boring and lame. The enemy AI is horrible, they just stand 
 there and don't really move much. There is alot of glitching when you go up ladders and run up 
 stairs. It just plan sucks, don't waste you time playing it. The multiplayer is what this game 
 is all about. There is deathmatch, team deathmatch, king of the hill, assult and defend, and my 
 favorite, capture the flag. Novalogic was nice enough to put a custom map editor in with the game 
 so you can make your own maps or there are fan sites with tons of pre made maps. I almost never 
 played in the same map twice unless I was hosting a game. There are that many maps out there, and 
 some of them are really good. That's one thing that makes the multiplayer so great, it always feels 
 new. Your not stuck with the same 12-15 pre-made maps that are in the game. The maps are huge, 
 you could be running around the battlefield and get killed by a sniper 1000 meters away from you. 
 And it only takes a few shots to get killed in DF2.
  The graphics arn't great, the building look bland. Your gun will glitch and blink. The enemy soldiers 
 have some detail but animate very bad. If you like things looking nice and pretty you won't be 
 impressed by this game. But one thing about the graphics being bad is that the tall grass or weeds 
 is nice and thick for snipers to hide in. The sound isn't that great, the guns sound a little weird 
 and the explosions sound weak.
  This game is about the multiplayer, don't even waste your time with single player. If you can look 
 past the poor graphics, sound, and just about everything else you can enjoy this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
