-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Delta Force: Xtreme
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deltaforcereloaded/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 32-player multiplayer that can be pretty fun.
 Good, solid graphics.
 Weapons have a satisfying feel to them.
 It's only $20.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Single-player is short, and fairly repetitive.
 Audio effects have a bad habit of looping obviously.
 The AI for your squadmates isn't especially good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  7, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.7, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 713 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NovaLogic
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Apr 22, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're a shooter fan on a budget, Delta Force Xtreme isn't a bad way to go. 

  While the tactical shooting series has had its ups and downs over the years, the original Delta 
 Force, released way back in 1998, was arguably one of the best tactical first-person shooters of 
 its era. Jumping on the recent trend of taking classic games and remaking them with modern technology, 
 NovaLogic has recently released Delta Force Xtreme, a budget-priced director's cut of sorts of 
 the very first Delta Force. While we'd normally tell you to run screaming from any game with the 
 word "Xtreme" in its title, Delta Force Xtreme holds up surprisingly well for a game released when 
 Clinton was still in the White House. In fact, when you toss in its 32-player multiplayer modes 
 and modern graphics, Delta Force feels perfectly suitable for a budget title.  

          The mutliplayer's definitely more exciting than the solo campaigns.     

  So, to answer 
 your first question right off the bat... yeah, Delta Force Xtreme feels a little barren for a modern 
 shooter. In 1998, "tactical shooter" meant you got to have computer-controlled teammates, and occasionally 
 they shot at the bad guys. Nowadays, there are all sorts of crazy cover-fire mechanics and unit 
 commands and what have you to take into account, so anyone expecting a tactical shooter by today's 
 standards isn't going to find it here. Essentially, the premise of the game is that you're a nameless 
 soldier in the Delta Force. There's really not any plot to speak of, save for little bits of mission 
 briefings that occur before and after each individual mission. There are three campaigns and about 
 20 missions total in the single-player, which is actually less than what was in the original game, 
 which featured five campaigns and roughly 40 missions (though a few missions have been added to 
 the included campaigns to pad out the length a bit) . While that might initially seem disappointing, 
 the focus of the game really isn't the single-player gameplay, and after spending some time with 
 it, it will become abundantly clear why.  

  We're not saying the single-player is terrible by any means, but there really isn't much to it. 
 You pretty much run from waypoint to waypoint on the map, shoot all the guys in the vicinity, and 
 occasionally stop to blow up a helicopter, some weapons caches, and other bric-a-brac. However, 
 even though you're just running around blasting away at large groupings of enemies, it's still 
 fairly enjoyable. The enemy artificial intelligence, while not exceptional, is reasonably challenging. 
 And because you're fighting against sizable groups, many of which are hidden within small buildings 
 and other covered areas, you'll have to be mindful of where enemy fire is coming from, so you can't 
 just run into an area with guns blazing. The AI for your teammates isn't nearly as good, but it 
 doesn't really need to be. You only have two, and in some cases, four teammates, and they're scattered 
 throughout the map, so you'll have to meet up with them at specific waypoints. Unlike in the original 
 game, they won't get stuck in certain sections of the map. However, they still only occasionally 
 take down enemies and you still have to hit specific trigger points on the map to actually get 
 them to move with you. The game also contains a limited array of weapons and drivable vehicles, 
 though the weapons are fun to shoot and the vehicles are fun to drive/pilot despite the lack of 
 variety.  

  The whole of Delta Force Xtreme's single-player experience won't last for more than a few hours, 
 but where you'll really end up having your fun is with the multiplayer, anyway. When you're playing 
 competitively, Delta Force Xtreme can be quite a chaotic, but fun experience. Up to 32 players 
 can play online, and whether you're playing team deathmatch, capture the flag, or king of the kill, 
 the action is always frantic and full of people getting shot in the face. It's especially enjoyable 
 in the maps where an abundance of vehicles can be found, as it is quite fun to climb aboard a helicopter, 
 or into the mounted gun position of a jeep, and roll around blasting guys. There are also a number 
 of cooperative missions in the game, where you and some player-controlled teammates essentially 
 do the exact same thing as in the single-player, which is running from waypoint to waypoint, clearing 
 out terrorists. Though not quite as engaging as the competitive aspects of the game, the co-op 
 certainly has its moments.  

          Graphically, Delta Force isn't much to look at, but it gets by.     

  With all of that 
 said, the one question probably still nagging at you is, "Exactly how much better does the game 
 look?" Even in 1998, Delta Force wasn't exactly a looker. By today's standards, Xtreme is on roughly 
 the same level -- it looks good, but not exceptional in any way. The soldier models all look pretty 
 generic, but move reasonably well, and if nothing else, they die convincingly. The environments 
 are typically quite large and spacious, though sparsely decorated. The areas occupied by enemies 
 tend to have some buildings, exploding barrels, and so on. But anywhere else, you're usually just 
 wandering around open desert or jungle for long stretches without seeing much of anything beyond 
 some decent ground and vegetation textures. The audio is similarly repetitive, but with a few more 
 problems. While the basic sound effects are generally OK, some of them tend to repeat rather blatantly, 
 to the point where you can tell they're on a very specific looping track. Like when you're driving 
 a motorcycle, for example, the sound of the engine revving up as you change gears just goes on 
 over and over again, even if you've reached top gear. There's really no voice work or music to 
 speak of, save for a few minor instances, and none of it is really impressive.  

  Actually, nothing about Delta Force Xtreme really sticks out in any meaningful capacity. The PC 
 is packed from front to back with quality shooters, so while Delta Force Xtreme is perfectly capable, 
 with so much competition available, it's tough to really get excited about anything it does. But, 
 with that said, for a $20 game, you could do a hell of a lot worse. So if you're a shooter fan 
 on a budget, Delta Force Xtreme isn't a bad way to go.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  With classic First person shooter, since the original delta force it's the best graphic in series. 
 but that a same looking with delta force 2?
  
  =gameplay=
  
  it's very interesting to play with 32 multiplayer, good enough to battle each others. but the single 
 player campaign not bad, but very terrible. enemy AI's not excellent. and poor Ai team mates. 
 
  in Delta Force Xtreme u play as a Elite team which called Delta Force
  there are 3 main player map in Columbia, Peru, and Rusia. u can choose a few standard weapon. not 
 many but enough too shot down ur enemy.
  
  =graphics=
  
  much better than older series, but with poor environment. enemy and ur teammates have a good detail 
 (but the enemy have a same face model??!!) , good but not briliant. u can run this game with minimum 
 pentium IV processors, vga card with 2.0 shader model, 512mb ram enough but not recommended to 
 play in notebook. 
  
  =All performance=
  
  very cheap, and fun to play, if u fans of delta force series i think u will add this gane to ur 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRaider1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I own the Demo Version of Delta Force Xtreme and I can only imagine that the real version is so 
 much better. The game is worth playing if you cant afford something like Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 
 or Rainbow Six games. Its Interesting to note that, in the game, you require only about fifteen 
 bullets to take down an entire black hawk helicopter. That is the MOST unrealistic game to ever 
 exist, under my opinion. Delta operator offers a reasonable number of weapons which are handy in 
 thier own ways. One thing I hate about Delta Force Xtreme is that it lacks what all the other games 
 have: Strategy. I mean, aren't Delta Operators one of the More stragetic soldiers of the day? One 
 thing you can credit Delta Xtreme for is the fact that it does have a huge array of Vechicles: 
 about 6 choppers, HMMVVWs, bikes and Dune Buggies. Overall, get a better game, thats all Im going 
 to Say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrasher505
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  one thing the df series has always been great for is gameplay. for some reason the graphics have 
 always been a little behind the times in these games but the actual fun of the games and the wide 
 open nature of the maps (excluding df blackhawk down) is just fantastic. 
  this remake is no exception, obviously, since its a remake of the original that started it all. 
 it brings back some classic missions but with notable additions to freshen them up. if you liked 
 the original df1 then playing through familiar fun missions with the added bonus of manning a 50cal 
 on an fav as it speeds around or tearing across the landscape to your objective on a motorbike 
 will definitely be thrilling. 
  i found the weapons pleasing to the ears and eyes. i found the kills quite satisfying and quite 
 numerous. i found the option of approaching objectives from whatever angle i preferred to be great 
 for replay value. 
  its also nice to see that the whole df series has a thriving online community of people creating 
 their own maps with the map editor that comes with each game. the eds are easy to use and there 
 are more sp and mp maps all over the internet to keep you playing this game than one could ever 
 actually play through. this is especially nice as you get to see what kind of creative scenarios 
 fans have come up with that novalogic may have never even considered. creating my own maps has 
 definitely kept me playing each df game long after finishing the sp campaign and spending hours 
 in mp servers. 
  so, the bottom line here is, if you want a game based around fun gameplay and can put up with slightly 
 dated but still nice looking graphics then go for this game. if you want precisely scripted, strictly 
 linear gameplay in tight indoor environments than you will find no enjoyment with dfx. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlracing
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  no wind effect or gravity to the bullets, no tactics of the enemies. playing this game is simple, 
 shallow. sniping most enemies from far away then get close to take down the rest with pistol is 
 an easy way to win. in fact that's the only tactic i use to go through the whole game. because 
 getting close to enemies when there are still many, is very dangerous, and there is not any enemy 
 sniper in this game. so my tactic works easily. i can stand still on a top of hill for a long time 
 and kill all enemies that i can see - the enemy bullets mostly miss.
  sniping is what i enjoy, but in this game, lack of physics makes sniping boring soon.
  the M40 
 is the only sniper that sounds interesting, M16 rifle sounds strong, all other guns sound weak.
 
  and 20 missions in total is short comparing to DF2. so the single player of this game has low 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 6
Date: May 12, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Kill enemys then kill some more. Ride vehicles from point a to point b. Destory Objective. 
 Mission over.
  
  Graphics: OK graphics but nothing special. Nice snow, desert and jungle enviroments. Player Models 
 look very nice and enemys do to. Guns are accuartly moddled.
  
  Sound: Gameplay is sometimes ruined by the use of cheap sounding metal music. Guns and explosions 
 sound very good with the guns sounding like there real life counterpart.
  
  Value: The game is only 10 to 20 dollars and is a good buy for the gamer with not alot of money. 
 The game is a good buy for people looking for a game to hold them over until games like quake wars 
 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripcord23
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I have always bin a fan with teh novaworld games i started way back with DF2 and then Blackhawk 
 down and joint ops. So i then chose to by delta force Xtream. It is a grait game you play capture 
 the flag missions king of the hill and death matches. Already beign a seasonded vetren in the joint 
 operation and black haw down i found it very fun and easy to fight on DF Xtream. You can drive vehicles 
 like little birds, Dune buggys, and Dirt BIkes,. The graphics are nice and gamplay is smooth there 
 are no prblems with thr game not even long loading. The vehicels help make the game very intense 
 like its prequls. I well never get tired of these games. If like Playing on novaworld get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ginga-Lightnin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  I know what your thinking. Novalogic isn't exactly renowned for FPS. In fact, i'd never even heard 
 of them before I bought this game. Knowing this, I didn't exactly have the highest of expectations 
 for it. Boy oh boy was I surprised!
  
  Delta Force is one of the few game I've played which has a fair balance between Single and Multiplayer. 
 In both modes, the gamelay is exactly the same. You can keep the same tactics from Single, bring 
 them straight into multiplayer and get the same kill count.
  
  Firstly, lets focus on Single Player mode. The missions span out across three campaigns, each one 
 covering a different type of terrain. Lush, Desert and snow. There isn't really so much of a story. 
 The basic gist of the campaigns is that your a soldier in Delta Force. You rteam is deployed all 
 over the world in order to deal with different terrorist threats, from disbanding a drug lord's 
 private army to reclaiming nuclear warheads. Each campaign increases in difficulty, with the first 
 few missions fairly easy, and the last couple of missions so frustrating you'll be lucky to come 
 out of there without a smashed monitor or two. At the beginning of each mission, you are breifed 
 on the situation, and given the options of which main and special weapons you wish to take into 
 the battlefield. Your main weapons range from sniper rifles to heavy machine guns, whilst your 
 special weaponry consists of a rocket launcher, claymore mines or satchel charges. Once on the 
 battlefield, you and your team are given objectives (your team-mates are NPCs) , and are directed 
 towards those objectives. Each of the missions requires a different strategy, as the layout of 
 your enemies forces you to significantly change which way you go about disposing of them. For example, 
 in the opening mission of the second campaign, you are faced with countless enemies holed down 
 in blast bunkers on the other side of a dried up river. Of course, diving head first into the ditch 
 and hoping you make it to the other side probably wont get you very far, so you could choose to 
 either go round the base and attack from behind, killing each enemy as you enter their bunker, 
 or climb a hill and snipe them off from a distance. Of course, you could just run in all guns blazing, 
 but only if you have a high tolerance for virtual pain.
  
  Single player also has a host of vehicles at your disposal, ranging from jeeps with gun emplacements 
 to attack cycles to Blakhawke attack helicopters with minigun emplacements (the latter is rarely 
 avaliable) . In some missions, these vehicles are vital to completing your objective, whilst sometimes 
 they're just there to help you get around quicker.
  
  Now lets move onto multiplayer mode. I've heard many ay that the community for Delta Force is poor, 
 and the gameplay dull. I can assure you that this is definitely wrong. It all depends on which 
 servers you pick. I recommend the Delta Force servers or the Public D$ server. The multiplayer 
 experience varies in lots of ways. Depending on which servers you pick ,and which maps are being 
 played, you could be forced to move to a good sniping point, or as is the case in some missions, 
 you could be forced to run head-on into the fray and see how many enemies you can blow up before 
 you get blown to peices by a rocket launcher or a stray grenade. Although whether your gunning 
 down the opposition by the dozens, or getting blown to peices left right and centre, multiplay 
 is surprisingly addictive. You could play for hours without realising, and still be craving for 
 more within a few hours.
  
  In all, Delta Force XTreme is a definite good buy, with lush graphics, addicting gamepay and endless 
 variety to how you go about your missions. well worth the low price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 10, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the budget title. For $20 or less, you can find games youve never heard of to Popcap Games 
 to very old games on clearance such as Half-Life and Hitman 2: Silent Assassin. Sometimes a more 
 familiar game hits this section, and that game here is Delta Force Xtreme. The title is a bit of 
 misnomer; its not even close to Xtreme.
  
  In the game, you play a marine from Delta Force, and you are out to eliminate enemies and complete 
 objectives through twenty different areas. Thats it, basically. There are missions where you go 
 out and save a hostage, obtain an item or destroy something, but in every mission, youre basically 
 killing as many grunts as you can.
  
  Heres a problem with this game: Its very boring and repetitive. The level structure looks very 
 plain, with various hills in many terrains in places like the jungle, desert or snowy area. Problem 
 is, these areas look almost all the same. Even things like buildings and bunkers are literally 
 carbon copies of each other. Its as if Novalogic took a backseat in level design, and probably 
 whipped these levels up in a week. Youre given a large arsenal of weapons such as the M4 assault 
 rifle and M249 SAW, plus a knife, a MK23 pistol, grenades, and an item of your choice such as a 
 rocket launcher or satchel charges. Honestly it doesnt matter what weapon you go out there with, 
 as theres very little differences between weapons. One weapon shoots slower or faster than the 
 other, but enemies go down in one hit with any weapon and they all have virtually no recoil.
  
  The graphics of everything look like theyre from a 2001 game. Models for characters and weapons 
 look pretty non-detailed. While there are objects that can be destroyed, they cannot be moved, 
 and players do not have ragdoll physics. Now, I wouldnt complain if the game actually was released 
 in 2001, but it was released in 2005! Im expecting at least some quality here! In addition, the 
 weapons sound pretty uninspiring and lack oomph, plus reload sounds are a bit clunky. Even a reload 
 sound is recycled for two weapons, the M4 and the MK23. It sounds very awkward. The game only has 
 one techno music track that plays during the menu and when you complete missions. Its not a good 
 track. There are a few fanfares but you rarely hear them unless youre doing multiplayer.
  
  The A. I. is very dumb. Many times Ive shot enemies from a distance and saw their buddies sit 
 there doing absolutely nothing. Enemies and allies alike cant hit the broad side of a barn if 
 theyre far away, but they got near hack-like aim in close ranges. Most of their concept is run 
 to the hostile, not even taking cover or doing other common sense maneuvers like in other games. 
 There are times even where enemies would just stand in position until they saw somebody and shoot. 
 And since some objectives will only be considered complete when youve killed all the enemies, 
 you waste your time looking for one lowly grunt to pop off, although this sometimes is a little 
 flawed as it says an objective is complete but yet theres still a handful of undead enemies. In 
 addition, you can shoot through mostly anything, being able to kill grunts without having to even 
 see them.
  
  Another problem is if your character dies, you have the option to continue or restart the mission. 
 This makes the game INCREDIBLY easy to beat, because you can take a few potshots, continue from 
 a checkpoint and just keep moving. There is literally zero challenge. In addition, youre given 
 Experience Points that are neigh worthless, and dont do absolutely anything except as a futile 
 attempt for scoring. And those experience points go away if you die and respawn, unless you killed 
 somebody after you died, where youre given the experience points the moment you spawn back in.
 
  
  The game also gives you vehicles like a motorbike and a buggy with a machine gun, but thats all 
 you can really drive in the single player campaign. There are bugs where if you continue to press 
 the gas button on bikes while in the water for instance, the moment they hit the ground, theyre 
 off like a greyhound. This is a bug that can be easily exploited in multiplayer. The Multiplayer 
 can be described as a lighter version of the Battlefield games. Theres the standard deathmatch 
 and capture the flag, but also a King of the Hill game mode, and co-op through the single player 
 missions. Capture the flag is a bit different than CTF in other games, in which you grab flags 
 strewn around the map and take them to a flag capture point. A nice twist on capture the flag.
 
  
  The game requires you to have an account with Novaworld, Novalogics online community. Its a painless 
 registration, but I found it a little silly after playing countless games that did not do this. 
 In addition, this game also has rankings, in which every time you gain experience in multiplayer, 
 you go up ranks and get medals. As far as I know these have no effect or give you any form of advantage 
 like in Battlefield 2, so its pretty worthless and is only useful if youre a stats whore.
  
  So the single player is an utterly boring portion, and the multiplayer is a low-calorie Battlefield. 
 Even for a budget title, this is a disappointment. Dont get this game if you like games like Delta 
 Force: Black Hawk Down, because youll be disappointed.
  
  Pros: Decent multiplayer modes, vehicles.
  Cons: Just about everything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Granted this version of Delta Force was released a while back, but I have just recently decided 
 to install it.
  
  This game is exactly what needs to happen for sequel games. If you have an initial platform, and 
 it does well, you should release the next version of the game with the quality that DF: EXTREME 
 has provided. Same exact maps as the first one, with the graphic improvements of a New release... Extremely 
 impressed with this older game. 
  
  The only downside to the game is LAN play. Unless you go through NovaWorld, there is no support. 
 
  
  Guess I'll need a crack or Patch to resolve a local LAN instead of sharing my computer to the sharks 
 of the hacker world.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 29, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  After two disappointing games Delta Force is back again. Delta force is one of the long running 
 mission based military action games and mainly renown for its multiplayer part but single player 
 missions are also appealing to those people who like to play with computer controlled player.
 
  
  In Delta Force Xtreme you will play as a member of bravo team with other two teams alpha and Charlie. 
 There are total 20 single player missions in three different campaigns-Peru, Chad and Novaya Zemlya. 
 Though there is no connection between these campaigns, you can start with the first one because 
 that is the easiest.
  
  When you first click the single player missions you will find campaign name and one mission under 
 each campaign. You have to finish mission to unlock the next one. And you will find all unlocked 
 missions in instant action menu. At the beginning of each mission you will find a map, small briefing 
 and weapon selection option. There are several weapons to choose from, in all mission you will 
 get a knife and pistol automatically, though they are not very useful. For primary weapon you can 
 select from different assault sniper rifle and machine gun. And in accessory section there are 
 only option  C4, mine and rocket launcher. I strongly recommend the default selection of weapons 
 for each mission.
  
  Now something about missions, those are very much straight forward, the only thing you have to 
 do just follow the line, I mean order and in your way kill the enemies. There will be other two 
 teams but they barely help during the mission because of poor A. I. design. And thank god in most 
 cases enemies also behave like dumb and show no intelligence. For this reason single player part 
 of this game is not popular.
  
  There is a point system for killing the enemies; you will get 5 points for each kill and 10 points 
 for destroying vehicles. But there is no significance of this points except if you want to break 
 your own high score. After each missions you will see the current missions and the highest score. 
 There should be an option to view the missions high score and some other stats like playing time, 
 kill, head shot from the mission select menu but there is no such option, though you can see these 
 stats in multiplayer game.
  
  Graphics and sounds are the two big let down for this game. Visuals are outdated and game environment 
 doesnt look any good even in highest detail settings. There are many rough edges here and there. 
 There is nothing to mention about sounds  during game you will heard instructions, gun shot thats 
 all, there is no music except the menu sound track.
  
  There are also few funny things happen during game. Like the commander talks with dead teams, I 
 mean two other teams reply to commander instructions after they went down (dead) in battles! And 
 also no save option, though game automatically save once after you finished the first objective. 
 That mean lots running to be done if you killed by the enemies near the end of a mission. One 
 thing I should mention  despite of poor A. I., enemies targeting capability is exceptionally well 
 and you can take just 2-3 shots before hearing this  Bravo is down  I repeat bravo is down .
 
  
  Multiplayer  the best of delta force game and also popular too. There are five competitive game 
 types: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, king of the hill and Team King of the Hill. 
 And you will find many servers to join and lots of people still play this game. The ranking system 
 added attraction to this mode. When you will play online match, I am sure single player missions 
 will become uninteresting to you, so think its a bonus. The last thing I am going to mention is 
 mission editor, with the help of this tool its possible to create your own map, though there is 
 a manual for map editor, its not for everyone and complex. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sneaky7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The game is full of lag and glitches but its still a great game to play, when you have no lag!!
 
  I'm from Holland so when i play against guys outside Europe the've got an bunch of lag so it's 
 very hard to kill them.
  Sometimes you need 2 or 3 nades to kill someone and when you killed someone with a nade they call 
 you a "noob", a gunner is a "pray and spray noob".
  So when you see the fun of this all than it's a nice game to play......
  Our squad was a DFX 
 squad but we decided to go back to BHD, because there are more people who plays BHD than DFX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  The game is not like Delta Force: Black Hawk Down according to me I think they have created the 
 game according to the original delta force games with the scope of the weapons on the left which 
 really sucks. The only improvement as I see it is the graphics which are OK. The game I believe 
 can be played on any normal graphic cards. It has three campaignes and the game is fairly short 
 and you could finish all three campaines in less than 7-8 hours of game play. The game is easy 
 as you never fail mission because there are spawn points wher you can continue. The enemy is dumb 
 just like Black Hawk Down and when they don't have RPG's it getts even easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  We're not saying the single-player is terrible by any means, but there really isn't much to it. 
 You pretty much run from waypoint to waypoint on the map, shoot all the guys in the vicinity, and 
 occasionally stop to blow up a helicopter, some weapons caches, and other bric-a-brac. However, 
 even though you're just running around blasting away at large groupings of enemies, it's still 
 fairly enjoyable. The enemy artificial intelligence, while not exceptional, is reasonably challenging. 
 And because you're fighting against sizable groups, many of which are hidden within small buildings 
 and other covered areas, you'll have to be mindful of where enemy fire is coming from, so you can't 
 just run into an area with guns blazing. The AI for your teammates isn't nearly as good, but it 
 doesn't really need to be. You only have two, and in some cases, four teammates, and they're scattered 
 throughout the map, so you'll have to meet up with them at specific waypoints. Unlike in the original 
 game, they won't get stuck in certain sections of the map. However, they still only occasionally 
 take down enemies and you still have to hit specific trigger points on the map to actually get 
 them to move with you. The game also contains a limited array of weapons and drivable vehicles, 
 though the weapons are fun to shoot and the vehicles are fun to drive/pilot despite the lack of 
 variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_the_Clown
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  I've been playing the Delta Force series for awhile now, starting in 1999 with Delta Force 2... then 
 I played that... Singleplayer, as in all Delta Force games, sucked then... and still is pretty bad 
 now... see, when I played Delta Force 2, I played in one of the best clans... we dominated until 
 most of the rest moved on and the last of us had to move on to an on-going clan that we battled, 
 but stayed friends with... but, enough of the past, now for the present.
  
  Delta Force Xtreme's Singleplayer... sucks... I refuse to play it, I bought it for the multiplayer 
 anyway, and was I impressed!
  
  See, the multiplayer was quite impressing for the price, tons of people to play with, now see I 
 LOVE a good 'ol Team Death Match, but over the years I've drawn away from those and more towards 
 King of the Hill or Capture the Flag, because there's an actual goal... anyway, the vehicles are 
 easy to learn, and if you don't know and HATE reading through the options, just ask someone openly, 
 they'll sure lend a helping hand and attempt to answer any questions.
  
  Graphics... they're not bad... but they're not the best, I like 'em, but I have seen better... but 
 for the price tag of $19.95!!! I say, pick it up!
  
  Gameplay... is actually good, they strategically place everything around the same areas on the keyboard 
 so anyone can play with the default keys and play they will!!!!! :) Movements are clean and only 
 everyonce in awhile will something choppy or unusual happen.
  
  Weapons... Let's see we've got the M4 Assault Rifle, the M16 A1 with the M203 grenade launcher, 
 and MP5 SMG, a M249, known to the military world and veteran military game players as the Squad 
 Automatic Weapon... or should I say... the SAW, M82 .50 Cal Sniper Rifle, and some other, less important 
 (LOL) Sniper Rifle... so anyway, you have knives, LAWs rockets, claymores, satchel charges, flashbangs, 
 smoke, and explosive grenades on the side... along with some kickass, heavily armed, vehicles, and 
 you've got a recipe for pure, addrenaline filled, fun, D154573R!!!!!
  
  Overall... The game is great for the price, I say pick it up, weather you be a n00b to online FPS' 
 or a veteran, you're sure to enjoy this game with your buds... or complete strangers...
  
  So go ahead, buy it, have some fun, and remember...
  
  YOU CAN'T SPELL SLAUGHTER WITHOUT LAUGHTER!!! 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 29, 2005 1:08 am PT
Review:  first
  The gameplay: is very fun at times but the Ai is very bad but its always bad in DF. Sometimes the 
 game was fun sometimes not and the multiplayer is the big thing thats the reason for the score.
 
  
  Graphics: looks great but not perfect, the enviroment is the big thing here.
  
  Sound: The weapon sound is terrible! and the sound is fake and poorly done.
  
  It has good 
 value you should buy this game if your a fan like me. And kids should buy it.
  
  I had great fun sometimes sometimes it was boring too the graphics looks pretty good everything 
 is just okay. Its a good game that only somebody will buy. 7,7 GOOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrustyKids
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Singleplayer
  Delta Force Xtreme is better than all games the delta force series and a bit more fun the joint 
 operations. DFX has very bad AI the single player campaign is not something i would buy the game 
 for although it has 20 missions all of witch the same thing go here and kill this protect this 
 destroy this and get to the extraction point makes the single player and the AI are just plain 
 stupid.
  
  Multiplayer
  Now the multiplayer in DFX is just fun, fun and more fun. It has 3 main parts of the game 
  they 
 are combat, sniper, and cooperative. coop is when you beat AI with a team of your buddies sniper 
 is the same as combat but it enables you to have snipers, and combat is machinegun, smg, assault 
 rifles only. In sniper and combat there are 5 types of game types tdm, tkoth, ctf, koth and dm. 
 dm is a hugh free for all, koth is a free for all but you stand at a point for as long as possible 
 tkoth is the same but with 2 teams, tdm teams fighting each other and ctf capture the flag.
  
  Weapons
  DFX is not very good for weapons it has an m4 assault rifle, m16 assault rifle, 
 mp5 smg and M249 SAW machine gun and thats it in combat mode and you can get 2 snipers the m82 
 and another one. it gives you a sidearm of the mk-23 and a accesory item you have a choice between 
 claymores, satchel charge (C4) and my favorite the AT4 rocket launcher.
  
  vehicles
  DFX also has a few vehicles like a buggy with a mounted machinegun a motorbike and helicopters 
 like the minigun helicopter and the passenger helicopter
  
  gameplay
  The game play is great in dfx the is teamwork involved and the action is just superb!
  rating: 
 9/10
  
  graphics
  the graphics are not the best for 2005's standards and at times it will look like a 2003 game unless 
 you have the quality on max it adds cool effects like helicopter exhaust and other things
  rating: 8/10
  
  sound
  the sounds are quite good the explosions sound quite real and the 
 sounds of the bullets flying past and hitting the dirt sound belivable.
  rating: 9/10
  
  value
  DFX is much better value compared to bf2 because its only 20$ and bf2 is 50$ and bf2 just 
 has fancy visuals and more guns the gameplay is the same only minor diference price
  rating: 10/10
  
  reviews tilt
  i like it i think its fun and a cheap game and a good buy 
 if you don't have bf2 this is a good alternative. rating: 9/10
  
  My score: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcerikson
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jun 20, 2005 1:36 am PT
Review:  What we really need is game well done and well put together, not more mediocre, remade and incomplete 
 titles (bugs) , such examples like DFX from Novalogic, BP from the shamely sinking Atari and many 
 others. DFX is just another penny in the neck title with nothing to offer except for its price 
 tag, no story, light cheap graphics and rather quickly death motion animations, with some what 
 i call midi sound and that's not all of it. When you play a FPS you focus on the graphical detail 
 of the weapons, weapons sound, recoil and many other things.
  Many games have succeed on this aspect not to perfection but yet brings lots of excitement and 
 taste for the eyes, ears and gameplay, unlike Novalogic's franchise thats makes no sense and when 
 shooting a terrorist with an m-16 grenade launcher that wont miss for anything in the entire world, 
 there is no joy in that, too easy, to fake.
  For me the only game that raised me the approval was SOF franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asylumsys
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 8, 2005 2:18 am PT
Review:  Ive been in the NovaLogic Community for years. This is just another old game in a new box. Its the 
 same graphics thats in Joint Operations and Escalation! Save your money because if you bought one 
 Novalogic Product you have bought them all!! Comanche 4, Taskforce dagger, Blackhawk Down, Joint Operations, and 
 the Expansion escalation! All have the same map terrains, buildings, player skins. Frame rates are 
 better then in the previous Joint Operations. But keep in mind its a 20 dollar game so you get what 
 you pay for! Just like it says on the box enhanced game engine. Meaning old game engine tweaked. Theyve 
 been tweaking it for years ,its tweaked all out. Plus you could visit Novalogics forums just read 
 up on the  Gunning!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2005 12:36 am PT
Review:  I think this is a great idea: Developers re-doing old, successful titles with the latest graphics 
 and sound effects. If only more companies released updated, budget-priced classics  for instance, 
 how about a true re-make of the first Half-Life? The one included in the collectors edition of 
 Half-Life 2 was half-assed, with water being the only upgraded component. Thats pretty cheap. 
 It made me sorry for spending the extra money. That would be cool if Lucasarts released Secret 
 Weapons of the Luftwaffe Xtreme, and defunct Ion Storm held a reunion to complete Daikatana Xtreme. 
 Okay, maybe some games should be left to die.
  
  Featuring three of the single-player campaigns from the 1998 original (Peru, Chad and Russias 
 arctic islands of Novaya Zemlya) , Delta Force Xtreme provides basic shooter gameplay. You select 
 a mission, read a short briefing, then kill everything that moves. Like all the titles in Novalogics 
 Delta Force series, the artificial intelligence in Xtreme is brain dead, but single-player missions 
 are still fun. Theres something satisfying about picking off scads of enemy troops. Pop, pop, 
 pop... its like whack-a-mole in combat. Each mission tends to run hot and cold, with longer stretches 
 of uninhibited target practice, punctuated by moments of difficulty, when enemy troops suddenly 
 rush you from the flank or employ world-class marksmanship. When hit, death comes quickly because 
 you cant absorb much damage. Dont fret, though, because you can resume each mission at the point 
 of your demise. Time for payback.
  
  Xtreme is a budget title, and it shows in the games production values. Theres no printed manual, 
 just a skimpy PDF document. The menu screens are bare-bones, with briefing maps actually illegible. 
 Does it really cost extra money to make computer text readable? Some keyboard functions dont work 
 as advertised. For example, there should be a third-person view, but for some reason it only functions 
 when youre inside a vehicle. The voices for enemy soldiers in Chad sound exactly like the voices 
 of bad guys in Peru. If Xtreme was a full-priced game, Id be less inclined to cut it some slack, 
 but considering the $20 price ($25 in Canada) , these foibles are forgivable.
  
  Xtreme includes one oddity worth mentioning: Dont shoot any birds. If you eliminate a hawk or 
 buzzard flying overhead, the mission automatically ends in failure because you killed a non-combatant. 
 When it comes to wildlife, apparently the dudes at Novalogic would rather make love, not war. Wait, 
 that doesnt sound right. You know what I mean.
  
  Multiplayer adds welcome meat to Xtremes single-player bones, giving it replay value. You can 
 select deathmatch, capture-the-flag, king of the hill and cooperative missions. Vehicles like dune 
 buggies, helicopters and dirt bikes are available, making Xtremes multiplayer feel like a light 
 version of Novalogics popular Joint Operations. Joining multiplayer sessions is easy. You sign 
 up for a free NovaWorld account and then perform a quick search for servers, which are ranked according 
 to game mode, ping, and number of players. You can dedicate your computer to serving an online 
 match, or host a LAN session. It all works smoothly.
  
  Graphics are good, but not outstanding. You can recognize the threads in your uniform sleeve, cracks 
 in the sun-dried earth, and patterns in the wind-swept snow. Except for the handgun, each weapon 
 looks detailed. The game engines ability to render vast outdoor distances deserves special attention. 
 I loaded a multiplayer map, jumped in a helicopter and flew in a straight line to... infinity. 
 It appears the engine can create limitless vistas filled with hills, trees, grass, lakes and rivers. 
 Other graphical aspects arent so good, like the drab emptiness of buildings, and repetitive textures 
 and architecture.
  
  There isnt much variety to Delta Force Xtremes sound, but youll never grow weary of the games 
 booming explosions and the pleasing bass note of your weapons. Each time you pull the trigger, 
 youre rewarded with a sharp crack or heavy thump-thump.
  
  Overall, Delta Force Xtreme is a budget game that delivers real fun. Youll be disappointed if 
 you expect AAA graphics like Doom 3, atmosphere like Half-Life 2 or gameplay like Splinter Cell: 
 Pandora Tomorrow. But if you lower your expectations to match Xtremes reasonable price tag, youll 
 find an enjoyable shooter that stands above the budget crowd.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
