-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Delta Force: Land Warrior
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deltaforcelandwarrior/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.3, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 691 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NovaLogic
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Nov 7, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you want to mow down terrorists using the latest firearms in a variety of colorful settings, 
 then this is your game. 

 When most other shooters had you locked indoors, hunting for power-ups as you fought fantasy creatures, 
 Delta Force helped usher in the hard-core tactical shooter. Delta Force and its sequel focused 
 on relatively realistic Special Forces actions. Single shots could kill, stealth mattered, and 
 you could engage targets outdoors from extreme distances. While marred by weak enemy artificial 
 intelligence, the new third installment, Delta Force: Land Warrior, builds on this formula. It 
 introduces a new graphics engine, some of the latest military firearms, and 30 colorful single-player 
 missions.   

  In real life, Delta Force is the US Special Forces unit that carries out the most difficult and 
 sensitive counterterrorist and commando operations. In Delta Force: Land Warrior, you can play 
 as five different Delta Force operatives, each with his or her own specialties. Characters have 
 detailed backgrounds, and they're pretty interesting; for instance, heavy gunner Pitbull was a 
 heavyweight fighter from the Bronx, while Gas Can, the resident demolitions expert, is a good ol' 
 boy from Texas. These characterizations have little bearing on gameplay, but each character's special 
 abilities do: One is a swift swimmer, another can hold heavy weapons steadier, another is a superb 
 knife fighter, and so on.   

  You'll want to pick a character for each mission who has abilities suited to the task at hand and 
 who can most effectively use your favorite game weapons. One of the biggest strengths of Land Warrior 
 is the inclusion of more than 20 different firearms. You get to lug quite an arsenal around, including 
 a sidearm, primary and secondary weapons, explosives, and grenades. For pistols, you can choose 
 9mm and .45 caliber models from Glock and Heckler &amp; Koch, as well as a dart pistol for underwater 
 combat. There are submachine guns with different effective ranges, magazine capacities, and options 
 like silencers. You can snipe with the Barrett .50 caliber rifle or a silenced PSG-1, among others. 
 When you need to break out the big guns, you can use the M249 SAW (squad automatic weapon) , the 
 Jackhammer automatic shotgun, the MM-1 automatic grenade launcher, and even the AT-4 anti-armor 
 rocket launcher. You can rig explosives, set booby traps, throw grenades, and paint targets for 
 artillery strikes. You can wield famous assault rifles like the AK-47, the Steyr AUG, the Heckler 
 &amp; Koch G11, and the futuristic OICW of the US Army's Land Warrior program.   

  The real-life version of Land Warrior is the US military's attempt to create high-tech soldiers 
 who will use an integrated electronics system to increase their combat effectiveness. Currently 
 under development, the system will likely include advanced radio equipment, night vision, a global 
 positioning satellite unit, a laser range finder, and a portable computer that jacks into the soldier's 
 helmet. The system also includes advanced "interceptor" body armor to protect against high-caliber 
 rifle rounds. Much of this is modeled (if loosely) in the game in the form of heads-up displays 
 with dynamic map readouts, friend-or-foe indicators, a night vision view, and so forth.   

  In game terms, one of the most interesting features of the Land Warrior system is the OICW, or 
 objective individual combat weapon. It fires both 5.56mm rounds and 20mm air-bursting high-explosive 
 grenades. The air bursts allow shrapnel to hit targets hidden behind cover, and the OICW has a 
 farther effective range than most current assault rifles, which increases your chance of engaging 
 the enemy before coming under fire.   

  The Delta Force series is known for providing huge outdoor combat environments in which to use 
 such long-range weapons, but in the previous two games, NovaLogic's voxel terrain technology had 
 drawbacks, like sluggish frame rates, pixelated graphics, and compatibility issues with certain 
 video cards. Land Warrior's new 3D-accelerated graphics engine now renders both expansive outdoor 
 areas and tight building interiors quite effectively. Areas vary widely from high, snowy hills, 
 to deserts spotted with huge cacti, to tropical lakeshores. So you may need to snipe at a guard 
 hundreds of meters away from a stand of pine trees on a mountainside, or you may need to swim below 
 a lake's surface, knife in hand, to silently infiltrate a base on the far shore. While the graphics 
 - particularly the skies - are good, don't expect the same quality from Land Warrior as from games 
 based on the Quake III Arena, Unreal Tournament, or even LithTech engines. Grass textures in Land 
 Warrior look muted and monotonous, trees are sparse, and textures on hills shimmer as you run. 
 Indoor areas tend to lack textural and architectural imagination, though there are some notable 
 exceptions such as the pyramids and Sphinx of Egypt - yes, you get to fight in them! Also, the 
 character models in Land Warrior are a bit blocky, and the animations look stilted, while the weapon 
 graphics tend to look slightly blurred in first-person view. Still, there are many nice visual 
 effects in the game, such as birds soaring overhead, little plumes when bullets strike water, and 
 flashes from ricocheting rounds. The graphics may not be gorgeous, but they involve you in the 
 gameplay, which is ultimately more important.    

 Like the graphics, the sound effects in Land Warrior are good but not great. Weapons effects are 
 vivid, and the heavier guns sound weighty and powerful. The sounds of footsteps, while too quiet 
 overall, vary from softly padding across grass to crunching through snow. Unfortunately, environmental 
 sounds are very limited in Land Warrior, which makes most areas seem lifeless - yet you'll hear 
 enemies shout or cry out in pain from extreme distances. The menu music is nondescript and doesn't 
 add much to the game.   

  Delta Force: Land Warrior offers 30 missions, including a training course to familiarize you with 
 game conventions, ten quick missions, and 19 linked campaign missions. There's also a mission editor. 
 Missions take place in exotic locales across the world, including Africa, Indonesia, and South 
 America. You'll have to destroy the power plant of a mercenary group, eliminate an assassin about 
 to join forces with a major drug cartel, and rescue VIPs from a fortified compound. Night missions 
 create lots of tension: Shots ring out, but you can't place the shooter, and enemies can appear 
 right next to you before you can react.   

  Before missions begin, you get a briefing and a chance to select appropriate gear. However, you 
 don't create any detailed plans like in the Rainbow Six games. Missions often open with you being 
 inserted by helicopter or even parachute, which really immerses you in the scene. You'll then use 
 your HUD to navigate to preset waypoints that you can edit while in the mission. For practical 
 purposes, most missions are solo adventures, though you may have a computer-controlled teammate 
 or two accompany you. The interface makes issuing orders to them awkward, however.   

  As you close on your objectives, you'll discover that most maps are a sniper's dream, as there's 
 plenty of natural cover from hillcrests. This is important, since success in many missions benefits 
 from long-range sniping. Weapons physics realistically add to the fun. Higher-caliber rounds can 
 penetrate thicker walls. Recoil, firing stance, and movement all affect your aim, though jumping 
 doesn't seem to affect your shot placement in close combat.   

  The artificial intelligence for your allies is quite good. Your Delta Force teammates have decent 
 situational awareness and know to crouch for steadier aim or duck for cover, though they follow 
 mission waypoints too strictly. On the other hand, enemy artificial intelligence is painfully weak. 
 Enemy placement and actions seem to be largely scripted, which limits the replay value of each 
 mission. The terrorists universally have poor aim and even worse reaction time, even on the hard 
 setting. They don't effectively work in groups to flank you, nor do they make much use of cover. 
 They often don't react intelligently to their buddies getting shot or to combat sounds. So, many 
 missions seem like shooting galleries. You just go prone at a distance, look through your scope, 
 and light into the bad guys. Indoors, enemies basically just wait for you to come to them, and 
 when you do, they rarely stand a chance against you. This poor artificial intelligence is a real 
 shame, since the missions themselves are so interesting.   

  Fortunately, Land Warrior has a full multiplayer suite. There's a cooperative mode that lets up 
 to four players take on the computer in the standard missions. Up to 50 players per server can 
 join in old standbys like deathmatch, team deathmatch, king of the hill, and capture the flag. 
 Then there are search-and-destroy and attack-and-defend modes that require teams to infiltrate 
 enemy territory and take out specific targets. The flagball mode lets up to four teams try to grab 
 a single flag in the center of the map and then rush it back to their base. Setting traps and ambushes 
 is great fun, and the huge assortment of weapons keeps play exciting. However, there isn't much 
 to Land Warrior's multiplayer gameplay that hasn't been done before, and the available multiplayer 
 modes don't take strong-enough advantage of the more realistic military setting of the single-player 
 game. Land Warrior's multiplayer mode is lots of fun if you want massive and wild firefights, but 
 it doesn't particularly encourage realistic infantry tactics or teamwork.   

  Delta Force: Land Warrior is a compromise between the complexities of tactical shooters like Rainbow 
 Six: Rogue Spear and the more basic designs of traditional shooters. Land Warrior is easy to learn, 
 but there's enough subtlety and diversity to the weapons to maintain your interest. In fact, the 
 huge arsenal is half the fun, the other half being long-distance engagements and sniping. The vivid 
 settings of the single-player missions are immersive, though the missions generally aren't challenging 
 enough. Multiplayer is frantic and fun, though not as sophisticated as it could be. If you want 
 subtlety and complexity, Delta Force probably isn't for you, but if you want to mow down terrorists 
 using the latest firearms in a variety of colorful settings, then this is your game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  With the first two games being a total let-down, Novalogic surprised me with this brilliant game. 
 I wouldn't have bought this game seeing the plight of the previous two games, but then I would 
 have missed an entirely wonderful game. I actually got it along with the rest of the 2 in a compendium 
 edition.
  Delta Force 3 almost corrects all the previous glitches of the previous two games and stands tall 
 on it's own merit. The graphics had been improved with a totally new graphics engine and new guns 
 improved the gameplay a lot. A better AI meant that the team mates would improve on their strategies. 
 It could also understand my line of thought and act accordingly. It would stay put while I was 
 creeping behind them and then would suddenly attack drawing away their line of fire.
  The enemies however only improved in their looks. The enemies would die even when shot in their 
 legs and took two shots in the head from a silenced gun to die. The campaign improved manifold 
 and so does the particle effect.
  So Delta Force Land Warrior can be called the beginning of the whole new set of games from Novalogic.
 
  
  FINAL VERDICT: Get this game to start off with, if you are new to FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassySloth
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  This game has got to be one of the best (if not THE best) first person shooters of its time. The 
 single-player wasn't much to brag about, so if you don't have internet on your home computer and 
 never plan on getting internet, then don't buy this. But the online play is to die for. 5 Soldier 
 classes, and enough weapons to make a terrorist organization give it a nod of apporval, not to 
 mention an endless amount of maps, thanks to the map editor (which didn't work in Win2000/XP, but 
 a fix is available at www. dfbarracks. com or www. novahq. net) . There are a few cheaters out there 
 but nothing big. The graphics are slightly outdated but still easy to look at. I'd recommend this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  The Delta Force. They are a highly trained group of soldiers specializing in anti-terrorist combat 
 missions. They get in and they get out and are capable of causing hellacious amounts of damage 
 in those short amounts of time. This is definitely ripe territory for a computer game and NovaLogic 
 has known this for years now releasing the first Delta Force game in the fall of 1998. NovaLogic's 
 follow up to Land Warrior acheived little success due to very choppy framerates and very pixilated 
 voxel terrain. Now NovaLogic is back and trying to do the series right with an updated graphics 
 engine that supports 3D acceleration. The engine certainly does its job; the game runs very smooth. 
 Unfortunately, NovaLogic seems to have spent too much time on the acceleration issue and not enough 
 time on more important AI and realism issues.
  
  Delta Force: Land Warrior takes its name from a project that is currently being developed and utilized 
 by the U. S. Army. It basically provides more information for ground troops in the form of smarter 
 weapons and real time tactical information, but you can read more of the details here. DFLW borrowed 
 a couple of things from the program besides the name. The first and most important, is the GPS, 
 which is a heads-up system that will give real time information on enemy position on the field. 
 This is an extremely important addition to your screen as it provides you with all of the info 
 you could need on troop movements, building locations, waypoints, and targets. You'll be using 
 this a whole lot in the game. The second most important addition from the program is the OICW, 
 a powerful new assault rifle that not only allows for long distance sniping, but also has a high-explosive 
 grenade capable of exploding and launching shrapnel that can hit targets behind obstacles.
  
  The graphics are certainly improved over the Delta Force 2. The terrains are very nice and 
 as expansive as the voxel technology allows. There are no more huge pixels either so the terrain 
 is nice and smooth. Add this with the ability to use 3D acceleration and you've got a pretty smooth 
 game with fairly slick terrain. The addition of large, seamless indoor environments also adds more 
 interest and variety to a largely outdoor combat game.
  
  While the character, vehicle, and building models aren't up to par with many of the games available 
 on the market today they still do the job plenty satisfactorily. Unfortunately the animations can 
 leave them looking a bit blocky and lifeless at times. For example, the transitions between standing 
 and prone positions are virtually instantaneous and choppy with under par crawling, running and 
 swimming animations. They do the job, but barely in some cases. Deathimations, however, are decent 
 most of the time. The problem with the deaths is in another area altogether. Collision and clipping 
 problems are everywhere in this game. Not since EverQuest have I seen so many bodies poking through 
 the ground, through buildings, through other bodies, out in midair... While it may seem like a 
 small thing, there were a whole lot of people walking by my desk laughing at that very thing and 
 saying how shoddy it was.
  
  Well, I wrote in my first impressions of Delta Force: Land Warrior last week that I was having 
 a bunch of fun with the game but it seemed a bit too easy. I also made the excessively brilliant 
 comment that games usually get harder as you get farther into them. Well, that held true for Land 
 Warrior, but for all of the wrong reasons. Instead of having the AI get increasingly harder and 
 smarter, NovaLogic took the easy way out by throwing millions of enemies in your face. While it 
 was a quite a bit of fun in one of the missions to defend yourself against an onslaught of Soldiering 
 101 failures, it certainly didn't fit the mold of the highly trained terrorists that you are supposedly 
 battling.
  
  The AI just never got better in the game. Even in the later missions, I found myself walking around 
 a corner right into the path of a terrorist pointing an A-K 47 at me only to back away without 
 the bad guy even trying to take a shot. He would say something in whatever language I'm guessing 
 meant, No, no, it's okay. You weren't ready so it's a do over. And then I would shoot him. And 
 he would die. No do overs now, eh? Not only was that annoying, but when sniping enemies and missing, 
 enemies would most often:
  
  A) Get in a prone position
  B) Run for cover
  C) Go get buddies and round up a posse
  D) Look around for the sniper
  E) Stand there looking 
 like a dumbass
  
  Can you guess? Correct! The answer is E. You win a big fat, you're so smart award. There were some 
 times when the enemies actually fired back, but usually they didn't do a thing. Should we move 
 onto friendly AI. Teammates, which are supposed to be helpful, ended up getting killed within the 
 first couple of minutes in a mission half the time. They were reckless and really just annoyed 
 the crap out of me. But every now and again they would manage to run by an enemy, standing up, 
 at full speed, and the enemy would ignore it and run headlong at me instead.
  
  There were also some other little problems with the single player game that didn't make sense. 
 You can save anywhere in a mission, but when you use that save to come back into the game, you'll 
 be replenished with all of the ammo you need. And when in a mission with an AI teammate, when coming 
 back in using the save, the teammate won't respond or participate in the mission anymore. Little 
 bugs, but they add up.
  
  But even with all of these problems, I did manage to have fun with the game, as long as I put any 
 hope of realism out of mind. All of the different specialties did add a bit of replay value to 
 the single player as long as you tried to stick to using them as you're supposed to because you 
 could easily use all of them in whatever role you wanted and still get through missions. Each of 
 the characters is better with certain weapons and better in certain situations but not quite enough 
 to really force you to change your tactics so you end up forcing yourself to try something new.
 
  
  This also comes into what is probably the most popular part of the Delta Force series: the multiplay. 
 NovaLogic hosts games over their servers called NovaWorld that hold up to 50 players per game. 
 There are several types of games although none of them will be unfamiliar to a first person shooter 
 veteran. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, King of the Hill and all of the other regulars 
 make their way into the game. Multiplayer in Land Warrior certainly is addicting however and solves 
 all of the AI problems in single player unless you are playing against really bad players. Every 
 specialty can play a part in this one. I had the most fun with a sniper rifle, but I was killed 
 plenty of time by close quarter specialists using knives and machine gunners and grenadiers. Yeah, 
 I died a whole lot, but it happens. When playing teams, organized groups of diverse weaponry and 
 specialists can do a lot of damage. The point is that I had a lot of fun playing multiplay, and 
 that is what is important when it comes down to it.
  
  Unfortunately, the single player game didn't quite stack up to what I had hoped for after playing 
 the game for a little while. Even though I did have a modicum of fun, the bad AI and graphics problems 
 made the game pretty disappointing at times. If you can put up with those collision problems, and 
 enjoy playing online, you'll find a pretty good group of people to play with over NovaWorld. If 
 you really loved the first two Delta Force games (although you're suspect if you liked number two) , 
 and you just want the vastly improved multiplayer, you'll surely enjoy NovaLogic's latest outing. 
 But if you were hoping that this incarnation would solve all of the past issues, you'll be a bit 
 disappointed even with the new improved 3D accelerated engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Prior to my move across the globe I undertook a stock-take of games on hand to decide what I should 
 take with me or leave behind. Delta Force: Land Warrior was a game which I thought should stay 
 at home, due to the fact the some of the missions were based in countries nearby and perhaps such 
 politically fictional stories and games would be best left in storage. So it got a run in the final 
 days at the Top End, when I probably should have been focussed on other things. In the end, it 
 barely mattered, as the first computer game store I entered in my current place of residence had 
 multiple copies of the game, in the old-style oversized boxes. However, the game itself is, like 
 most of the Delta Force series, almost stuck in No Mans Land with the tactical approach compromised 
 by some very marginal AI and the ease in which the player can snipe away from a distance. Having 
 said this, its a solid game that offers a variety of missions, weapons and challenges that will 
 keep most FPS fans happy, even in contemporary times.
  
  In Delta Force: Land Warrior you play as a combat operative involved in special operations and 
 missions around the globe. The missions are objective based as you clear hostile camps, disarm 
 ordinance, free hostages and take down other undesirable characters. Youll get a large and fairly 
 impressive array of weaponry to undertake these missions, but keep that sniper rifle close. Whether 
 playing the isolated missions (ten of them, where you can save progress) or the official campaign 
 (19 missions based around the scallywaggery of a disparate group of souls from the stereotypical 
 hotspots - and where you cant save progress) the aim is to eliminate the 1000+ bad guys youll 
 cross paths with. It isnt quite run and gun, as a couple of hits will result in death, but the 
 wide open spaces of the large and detailed maps offer plenty of options on how to approach missions.
 
  
  Remembering the game was made in 2000, the graphics are still reasonable enough. Land Warrior introduced 
 a new engine for the Delta Force series and is no doubt graphically superior to its predecessors. 
 The maps remain large with plenty of open spaces, trenches, elevated positions and structures. 
 However, although missions take place in different areas of the world, it doesnt look that different, 
 merely changing the colour of the ground, the style of building or throwing in a Pyramid for good 
 measure. The graphics are reasonably defined, with some extra attention given to the weapons you 
 are carrying. There are day and night missions, with the night vision effect being quite cool, 
 but I also experienced some unstable rendering when using this feature. The enemies look reasonable 
 enough as do the vehicles youll come across during missions and the interface and title / missions 
 screens all do they job they need to do. Seven years on, Land Warrior looks dated but not disastrously 
 so.
  
  The sounds are solid. The crack of gunfire and the holler of the enemies is the main source of 
 sound during the game, but its quietness that at times provides real atmosphere to the game, especially 
 as you inch your way closer to a compound in the darkness of night. Vehicles hum along appropriately, 
 the voice work with the mission briefings is professional and the title music is disposable mood 
 music. Nothing special, but it does its job.
  
  Land Warriors gameplay appears to try a best of both worlds approach to attract both the tacticians 
 and the gunners. And to be honest, with just a little more expertise in programming and AI, it 
 could have pulled of it off.
  
  The missions provide multiple objectives and do provide some interesting scenarios that can be 
 approached in several different ways. It also provides and extensive array of weaponry to chose 
 from, which is detailed to the point of profession. While you generally need to follow the compass 
 to trigger subsequent waypoints, there is plenty of freedom to scope out enemy positions and the 
 best way to approach. Youll occasionally be accompanied by computer controlled allies, but they 
 cannot be relied on. They are on a set route and will take out of a few enemies, but will rarely 
 see out a mission and be with you at extraction point. The missions range from clearing enemy camps, 
 securing documents, destroying infrastructure and liberating hostages. But the approach and the 
 skirmishes are all the same. Enter, neutralise and depart. Or with the sniper rifle  neutralise, 
 enter, tidy up and depart.
  
  There is no doubt that, especially during the campaign where there is no in-mission saving, Land 
 Warrior provides an appropriate environment as you inch forward towards objectives. And while you 
 can eliminate a fair proportion of your opposition from the distance with the ridiculously over-powered 
 trump card, the sniper rifle, in most missions you are going to have to get up close and personal 
 with enemy combatants in buildings, tunnels and other enclosed spaces. This part of the game does 
 provide a far more level playing field. But then the AI issues come to the fore and, quite frankly, 
 spoil the tension. Whilst at times the enemy will react appropriately (or perhaps just surprise 
  and it a genuine shock when one flanks you) , you can basically be guaranteed that you are going 
 to have 3-4 seconds to dispose of an enemy before they shoot at you. At times they will run at 
 you. At times theyll stand in the corner in the manner we were sent there as naughty kids in kindergarten.
 
  
  Ultimately, there are a few levels where the tension is fever pitch. Special mention has to go 
 to the campaigns penultimate level, where you crawl your way through savannah and darkness before 
 confronting the mother of all sieges in a heavily fortified building. An attack on a large airbase 
 was also a tense, challenging level and some of the stand-alone missions, even with the save feature, 
 provided some seriously good competition. But take away these, the missions are essentially a shooting 
 gallery, with the enemies either presenting as sitting ducks or poorly trained infantry, with only 
 the odd tense moment thrown in. An enjoyable shooting gallery, but a shooting gallery nonetheless.
 
  
  It took about ten hours to complete all the missions on the default level. There is (or was) extra 
 value with an online component or those looking for a tougher challenge could go to the highest 
 difficulty level. I purchased the game for about $AUD8 (second hand) in 2006, which is more than 
 reasonable value for money for what the game offers. Most Delta Force games can be found at reasonable 
 prices these days.
  
  Delta Force: Land Warrior is perhaps like most of the Delta Force series  its in the main an 
 enjoyable shooting gallery through some large environments. However, the enemy AI is simply not 
 consistent enough to provide a solid challenge, especially when coupled with the several hundred 
 metre pot-shots that can be taken with a zoomed apparatus. But ultimately, its still an enjoyable 
 romp through a number of scenarios and settings which will be appreciated by those who enjoy FPS 
 games and the like. One could choose to be critical of the fact that with a bit of extra quality 
 in programming, Land Warrior (or perhaps the whole Delta Force Series) could have been an extremely 
 polished product, but ultimately it provides a decent gaming experience as it stands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: startrek934
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 7, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  This is one of those newer old-school games; it has some great multiplayer action &amp; some good 
 missions but there not to hard. This delta force has some brand new features that i loved; one 
 was the saving during a mission if you die. I also liked that there was a better weapon choice 
 than the older df games. Now the weapon view looks fuzzy &amp; but it still has better weapons. 
 Also when you make maps in the included map editer; you can make the enemys have any weapon that 
 you can use. Has some great multiplayer game modes but everybody just goes rambo on you and its 
 kinda hard to be a sniper but if you get really far it works. Overall this is a good tactical shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theKJ0012guy
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  aaaa... well its a decent shooter for a pc game worth the rateing given buy gamespot. you start 
 off somewere in iraq i think (i may be a little off with this review because its my bros game and 
 i dont play it that much.) and so you in iraq shooting people tell you beat the level basicaly. 
 good gameplay good grafix well put togather game great sound. and this game is worth what i and 
 gamespot have given it. if you like black hawk down then get this.
  but what i think they should do is adda few team mates to help you like a demoliions and a sharp 
 shooter or something and mabey a useable veichel too.
  that was another amazing review from kj0012. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GibboViper
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force Land Warrior.
  
  Well this is a decidedly aged game now but I would like to write a review despite the passing of 
 time because DF3 was one of my first major games that I came to play and eventually dedicated 2 
 years to playing Online in spare time, eventually becoming No:1 in the world for a game called 
 Capture the Flag or CTF the pros will know this as. Well the graphics then in 2001  2002 were 
 pretty inspiring to say the least and with a fast pc everything flowed and you really believed 
 you were in a war environment. In both single player and multiplayer you have a choice of characters, 
 which have an effect on your abilities in the field. For example, Gunner shoots like hell, especially 
 with the saw, but boy running from danger is slow. Other characters will have good knife fighting 
 abilities whilst others will be better swimmers. Weapons range from the 50 cal sniper rifle, the 
 oicw, the M249 saw, Jackhammer, MM1 grenade launcher, ak47 and Psg sniper rifle. Side arms are 
 good too with a choice between the Glock and traditional pistol and always your trusty knife for 
 back up. You also get to play around with sophisticated equipment such as radios, night vision, 
 a global positioning satellite unit, a laser range finder, and so on. One Nifty feature is calling 
 in an airstrike on a target in the single player mode and moments later watching the target go 
 up in flames while you are safe behind cover! Land Warrior offers 30 missions, including a training 
 course to familiarize you with game conventions, ten quick missions, and 19 linked campaign missions. 
 Most of these Missions are solo missions but occasionally you get a couple of AI guys that can 
 come with you and you can control which is always fun. The missions themselves are quite interesting 
 but the AI enemies is quite poor so if you take your time, even on a hard setting you can pick 
 them off one by one and complete the mission. You never quite feel fully challenged although you 
 are careful enough to make every shot count never the less. Whilst Single player is fun, it is 
 really the multiplayer that will engross you. When I last played a couple of years ago NovaLogic 
 had plenty of servers up covering CTF, search and destroy, team king of the hill and so on. The 
 idea is to join a server and join in the fun. However for many it was a case of join a squad and 
 go to war with another squad. This was fantastic fun and ill never forget the days of being on 
 the mike with the whole squad, and formalising a strategy and moving in on the opposite team. This 
 was amazing fun and the multiplayer really works well on this level. To sum up whilst a relatively 
 older game Delta force Landwarrior can still give you real enjoyment and stimulation for as long 
 as you want to play and still able to deliver the occasional adrenalin rushes. Of course there 
 are many more competitive games on the market now but surely Delta Force Landwarrior deserves a 
 medal for being a true inspirational classic that would captivate an audience for many years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotdarkcloud
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Now Delta Force Land Warrior is an odd game, but it does have its moments. The graphics are fairly 
 plain and repetitive, and when sniping an enemy often appears as little more than a small black 
 line. The sound is fairly non existent, but the odd whoosh of a rocket and sound of another enemy 
 biting the dust will satisfy. The characters are great and lovable, but also easy to forget (I'm 
 playing as whats-its-face... dynamite??) . The weapons are where this game really picks up. A strong 
 selection of true life weaponry ranging from a trusty inaccurate AK to the ability to call in air 
 strikes during certain operations. All that said this game is a great pick up and play, and easy 
 to jump into a multiplayer game to frag a few while on high speed or dialup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Delta Force series since the first game. Land Warrior is a vast improvement 
 over previous attempts.
  
  The graphics sadly aren't as good as they could and should have been for the time but the Delta 
 Force games have never had top notch graphics anyway. The graphics are an improvement over previous 
 games with much more diversity of the textures and art in the different missions.
  
  The sound effects in Land Warrior haven't really improved over the previous games but they're still 
 enjoyable anyway.
  
  Land Warrior does have it's problems though. The biggest problem with Land Warrior as with all 
 the previous Delta Force games is the enemy AI. The enemies can do some really stupid things such 
 as keep trying to walk through walks, get stuck in walls, shoot through walls, automatically know 
 you're in a certain place, shoot at walls, kill themselves etc etc....
  The other major problem with the game were the characters. They all seemed to play very similar 
 to each other.
  
  Land Warrior does bring some good features to the Delta Force series, such as save games (not every 
 fan though it was a good idea) , more diverse missions, the ability to reload your ammo or pickup 
 a different weapon etc etc.. In my opinion the ability to reload your ammo and pickup weapons was 
 the best thing about the game. In the previous games it felt really stupid killing all these enemies 
 and not being able to pick up there weapons or even get more ammo.
  
  All in all Delta Force: Land Warrior is the best in the series and even though it's got the same 
 old problems it's still worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImpaledDecade
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Delta Force has to be one of the greatest military based shooter series available on PC. Land Warrior 
 is leaps and bounds away from Delta Force 2, but dosen't carry the same score. Face it, DF2 is 
 better then Land Warrior. Theres about 30 guns, and you'll usually end up using 5 or 6 different 
 ones.
  
  Gameplay: Single player is fairly easy and boring at times. Multiplayer has gone from more long 
 range combat (DF/DF2) to CQB. The way the weapon recoil and hit system work is disgusting in my 
 opinion, but its effective and still fun.
  
  Graphics: Major improvement over DF/DF2. You'd have to be blind to not tell the difference. The 
 only problem is even though its prettier it looks kinda bland on the textures.
  
  Sound: Each weapon sounds like it would look. Fast, powerful, silent, slow, etc.
  
  Value: 
 Its a decent game, not a big fan, but its worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TallicaFan2005
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:45 am PT
Review:  The singleplayer as in any Delta Force game is nothing special. You can enjoy it for a limited 
 time but there are much better experiences out there. Now does that make this game not worth the 
 money? No. The Delta Force series, to me at least, has always been about the multiplayer. I've 
 been a dial-up gamer my whole life and Delta Force was my first online shooter.
  
  The online community is good, however since newer games have come out, the amount of players online 
 has fallen. Cheating is a minor issue as in the previous games but for the majority of the time 
 you will find the servers are cheat free. If the occasional cheater does bother you, simply head 
 to the Public games where the host is usually active and able to boot cheaters.
  
  The graphics aren't amazing, but seeing as you can play fairly on dial-up it shouldn't bother you. 
 I can finish in the top 5 of most games on dial-up which means I'm on par with those with better 
 connections and you can be too. For $20 or less there is no reason you can't enjoy the experience 
 with me. An added bonus is to pick up the 'three-pack' if you can find it which includes the first 
 two games in the series as well for the same price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andch17
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force 2 was a huge accomplishment and made a lot of fans happy. Delta Force Land Warrior 
 is basically the exact same game except it looks better and has more features.
  
  Delta Force Land Warrior is a very good first person shooter, it has all the makings for a classic. 
 The gameplay is basically the same as Delta Force 2's except with a little more details, an example 
 is that you can pick up guns off gun staches off walls and stuff like that. The graphics are improved 
 from last year's game, all the textures look sharper and the details in the game are very good. 
 The game still has its flaws from last year's game, like if you shoot a terrorist in the toe they 
 will die, or you'll sometimes see enemies stuck in a wall or something like that. The game has 
 5 characters to choose from, each of them have traits that will help during missions, the campaign 
 is pretty good and is very fun to play with friends.
  
  Delta Force Land Warrior is a decent shooter, but if you have Delta Force 2, then you might want 
 to play this game before you buy it because it isn't much different from Delta Force 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcloudestine
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  If you have alot of time to play you will find its navigation more difficult than the game itself 
 i. e the shooting, it woven into network of nots and mase.
  
  Selection of weaponery of high importance here since each game has its own unique scenery and adaptational 
 attributes which is best suited for certain weapons.
  
  Selection of any game is of no importance here since each game has its own story to tell. Best 
 to play it like an alian on mission to another planet unknown to it.
  
  Shooting is true to reality in certain respects, you actualy aim and shoot to kill, than hitting 
 without aim, i. e. it feels like a real gun in your hands with its shooting effects and its side 
 effects, like trowing off the gun when the weight on it is lower than its load.
  
  Sounds is also true to reality, you hear as it sounds even at your back. Best you listen.
  
 
  Imagery is off high quality here, but with little unseen ghostly imagery underneath it.
  
  The game is your game when you buy it, you are the hero and the enemy is in your hands, you win 
 to keep the enemy out.
  
  Yours if you want to fight the enemy, at your own mercy, there is no law in it than your own law, 
 your are the judge of your enemy, its up to you to judge him right or wrong and if you realy want 
 to play it, then the enemy is at fault here and you must win at all cost.
  
  Without you there is no law, and the enemy wins solong as you lose.
  
  King 6 is fantastic, 
 without him or his assistance, you will be in very wild mase or on the middle of Sahara desert. 
 His instructions are like oasis for those in need of help.
  
  Over all a win is possible and a loss is also easy to come by.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force offers around 45 single-player missions, including 25 sorties split between two campaigns 
 and 20 stand-alone scenarios, in which you must prove yourself against large and heavily armed 
 terrorist armies. In most cases, you'll work alone or with a handful of computer-controlled support 
 teams. Most scenarios involve a clandestine attack-and-destroy mission against enemy bases, though 
 many also include hostage rescue, recovery of stolen assets, and other commando-style objectives. 
 The game also contains a powerful mission editor that lets you craft complex scenarios with relative 
 ease and even provides thorough documentation for it.
  
  The mission design in Delta Force is generally excellent. Not only are most scenarios more difficult 
 than the missions in the original, but they also seem realistic and believable. Although some are 
 definitely influenced by Hollywood (one stand-alone mission conjured memories of the train attack 
 scene in Lawrence of Arabia, for example) , even these are a lot of fun from beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtdewtag
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force: Landwarrior is the third game in the Delta Force series. With a few upgrades and some 
 minor improvement on sound and graphics. This tactical shooter moves the bar up on the series.
 
  
  Gameplay: Similar to the previous Delta Force games. With some minor differences. For starters 
 you now have 5 different characters each with unique abilities to pick from and perform the missions 
 for you.
  
  Graphics: Improved slightly for this game. More scenery and different locations made this game 
 some nice eye candy to view. Different missions from being in the desert to being in a foggy swamp 
 will test the limits of your graphic card.
  
  Sound: Slightly improved but still average overall.
  
  Value: After 2 previous editions and 
 few others to follow. This is the best in series in my opinion. Online play was improved and Novalogic 
 took cheating very serious. You could also find lots more user maps that would allow you to improve 
 your techniques with this game. Plus this is a good game to add to your collection if you want 
 to collect the Delta Force series.
  
  Tilt: This was the first game of Delta Force I decided to venture online with to see how decent 
 the game was compared to the others. Overall I enjoy and still enjoy playing this game. I have 
 found myself more into the single player levels but online is still fun when you are up against 
 others that want to play fair.
  
  Only downer about single player mode is that your 5 different characters will act and feel the 
 same way in single player mode. The game claimed each one had an unique ability that made them 
 more suited for certain missions. What I found out is by playing only one character all the way 
 through I was able to complete the game with no problems. I was sniping with the heavy gunner and 
 the sniper I used him later and in close quarters combat he was just as good as the gunner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Unlike the previous games, Delta Force and Delta Force 2, people were actually talking about this 
 game in the year it was released in 2000. Whether it was single player or multi, this was simply 
 the best and most solid Delta game Novalogic offered up to 2000. The graphics have greatly improved. 
 You can now see your enemies as people rather than a black speck. The backgrounds, whether indoors 
 or out, look much better, same goes for the weapons and how they are used. Everything is just better, 
 Delta Force and Delta Force 2 will no longer be put into your computer again... they have been rendered 
 obsolete with Land Warrior. The real life Land Warrior, soldier of the future idea didn't go through 
 though, and the OICW was deemed too cumbersome for a soldier. I disliked the character selection 
 because it won't let me create my own character but rather forces me to use others. Having a female 
 in Delta was either to be politically correct or draw female gamers - there are no females in the 
 Spec Ops community, not that I know of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ottomus
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Great game what can I say, I mean the single player is not all all that fun. But what makes this 
 game great is the online gameplay or what it used to be. Well if you would have gotten the game 
 about a year ago you would have had fun. Although some of the Delta Force Land Warrior faithfull 
 still play, it is is not as jam packed with players as it used to be. But you should still get 
 it and try the multiplayer out because it was a great game, the best of its time. d d d d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougsan
Rating: 5
Date: May 10, 2005 1:27 am PT
Review:  I couldn't get Delta Force 1 to play with graphics that are worth viewing and opened tyhis game 
 with a lot of trepidation. Graphics are OK -- for 2001 -- but lousy for 2005.
  
  Lots of different weapons and many different ways to play each of the numerous "levels". The easiest 
 way is to blast your way from start to finish. If your reflexes are spot on you'll be done in a 
 few hours.
  
  The levels themselves show some originality relative to settings (Egypt, Africa, US West, etc.) 
 but the actual feel is that you're playing the same topography with different colors.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelsBeast
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2004 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Huge battlegrounds and great weapons, what more could you ask for? The controls are simple and 
 you can learn them in minutes. The weapons fire pretty close to the way they do in real life and 
 one shot with about any weapon will take anyone down. The enemy AI could be improved. If you are 
 any distance away from them they will just drop to the ground and wait for you to find somewhere 
 you can shoot them from. Up close they can be difficult to fight more than 3.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics could defiantly use some improving. The land is all the same and bland 
 with nothing but a few trees or structures where your mission is located. Also the level of detail 
 is extremely low. But the good part is that even on slower systems the game will not skip or lag. 
 Also the graphics really dont take away from the gameplay but they still need improving.
  
  Sound:
  There really isnt any ambient sound, and the gunfire should be louder than it is. 
 The enemies practically give their position away all the time by talking, which brings the difficulty 
 level down some. The worst part about the sound is that there isnt much of it, between gun fights 
 all you hear is your feet on the ground. Insects, birds, dogs, etc would have improved this some.
 
  
  Summary:
  This is my favorite game series, I love to use the 50cal. Sniper rifle and take everyone down before 
 I even get near the objective. If you want a game were you get to play with sniper rifles and a 
 little close combat to go along with it than this is it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  Land Warrior is the third Delta Force game from Novalogic, there have been some graphical improvments 
 but not alot has changed. 
  
  The gameplay is the same as the last two DF games. The single player is ok, I thought the missions 
 were better in this game then DF2. But the multiplayer is where this game really shines as with 
 any DF game. The enemy AI was a little better, they would still just stand there for a few seconds 
 if you ran up to them. If you arn't wern't using a silenced weapon soliders will come running to 
 your position. And their snipers would take you down from 500 meters away. This makes the difficulty 
 go way up, I found myself under alot more fire and getting killed alot more in this game then in 
 past DF games. You can now chose from different soldiers with different abilities which makes the 
 game more difficult. I chose the sniper because he is accurate with a sniper rife and scope but 
 he can't hit anything if it's right in front of him and he is using a machine gun. The weapons 
 are a little better, you now have a silenced sniper rifle, the PSG-1. And you can carry a sub machine 
 gun as secondary weapon and still have your pistol. But the problem I had was I didn't have enough 
 ammo, I always had to take the extra ammo option which doubles your ammo. So for your main weapon 
 you will get like 12-14 clips, 2 for your sub machine gun, and 2 for your pistol. And you can't 
 take two law rocket launchers any more, there is a selection box for only explosive items.
  
  Graphics are alot better, I've been playing alot of DF2 and when I loaded Land Warrior up I 
 was impressed. The menu looks better, it still has a audio recording for your mission briefing. 
 As I started the first level I was surprised by some of the detail they added to the buildings. 
 In DF2 most of the walls of the buildings have no textures or detail, this game does, even the 
 lights look better. Your weapon looks better and is more detailed, and it doesn't flicker and glitch 
 as much as it did in DF2. And because the graphics are better, the tall grass that was in DF2 that 
 was great for hiding when you were a sniper is gone.
  
  Overall I enjoyed the game, it has good improvments over DF 1&2, and if you can get the game cheap 
 enough or borrow it like I did I think it's worth it. But it's not as good as the new games out 
 now, so don't expect this game to be super awesome. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
