-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Delta Force: Task Force Dagger
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deltaforcetaskforcedagger/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 16, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.2
Critic Score: 5.1, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 268 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NovaLogic
Developer: Zombie
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Jun 27, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It offers one or two vaguely entertaining features, but in the end these things are buried under 
 the weight of the game's many disappointing traits. 

  While Red Storm Entertainment's Rainbow Six series often gets all the credit for establishing the 
 tactical shooter genre, games like NovaLogic's long-running Delta Force series deserve some credit 
 too. With a focus on real-world weaponry, long-range sniping, and quick kills, the early Delta 
 Force games helped create a new level of realism in shooters. Nevertheless, the Delta Force series 
 has since been left limping along the gaming wayside, surpassed by superior tactical shooters like 
 SWAT 3, Operation Flashpoint, and Ghost Recon. NovaLogic's latest release, Delta Force: Task Force 
 Dagger, simply can't compare with these games and marks a real step backward for the Delta Force 
 series.           Lots of weapons don't actually amount to much.    

 It may sound like doublespeak, but NovaLogic is billing Task Force Dagger as a "stand-alone mission 
 pack" for 2000's once-decent but now-dated Delta Force: Land Warrior. This seeming contradiction 
 means you'll get the same fundamental game engine featured in Land Warrior, but with 25 new missions 
 and a bunch of new weapons. Unfortunately, none of them are particularly entertaining.   

  In Task Force Dagger, you head to Afghanistan to fight in missions inspired by Operation Enduring 
 Freedom -- which may suggest to some that NovaLogic is simply trying to profit from tragic real-world 
 events. NovaLogic touts the game as a tribute to the heroes of the conflict, but Task Force Dagger 
 simply treats the subject matter with cold, boring sterility. As far as story and setting go, it's 
 one of the most uninvolving tactical shooters in a long time.   

  In Task Force Dagger, you'll head to places like Kandahar, where you'll destroy SAM sites. In Mazar-e 
 Sharif, you'll try to capture an enemy commander. In Bagh-e Daud, you'll try to rescue a journalist. 
 Despite this seeming variety, many missions play the same: Approach a compound, snipe a bunch of 
 guys who are just standing around, move in, blast a few remaining guys who are just standing around, 
 and grab some documents or blow something up. The fact that you do most of these things without 
 any AI companions is both dull and unrealistic. As for multiplayer, it's decent enough for a short 
 spell but ultimately just the same sort of thing you've played many times before: capture the flag, 
 king of the hill, deathmatch, and the like.   

  Delta Force: Land Warrior is probably most remembered for its atrocious enemy AI. The utter ineptitude 
 of your opponents often made the game feel more like a glorified shooting gallery than a true tactical 
 shooter. Task Force Dagger offers little, if any, improvement to the AI. If the enemy beats you, 
 it's only because they grossly outnumber you. They're brainless pushovers who yell out for no reason, 
 only drawing attention to themselves, or who stand motionless when you shoot one of their buddies 
 in the same room.   

  You'll get to "fight" these enemies as one of 10 different Special Forces groups, like the US Green 
 Berets or the British SAS. Each force has special abilities, like enhanced swimming (not exactly 
 in demand in the mountains of Afghanistan) or the ability to withstand more damage (apparently 
 Marines have thicker skin) . Each group also has its preferred weapons, though how exactly these 
 preferences affect gameplay is never made clear, since it's easy enough to hit targets with any 
 weapon.   

  The overall selection of weapons in Task Force Dagger is enough to make a firearms fanatic giddy -- at 
 first. You'll get an alphabet soup of killing machines, including the cutting-edge OICW combination 
 assault rifle/grenade launcher. Then there are the M24 and PSG-1 sniper rifles, the M249 SAW, and 
 the M16A2 assault rifle with 40mm grenade launcher, among others. You'll also get plenty of secondary 
 weapons like the HK MP5SD6 submachine gun, the SOCOM pistol, and the LAW antitank weapon. You'll 
 even get to call in air strikes in some missions. An interesting nonlethal tool at your disposal 
 is live, overhead video footage of the mission area from unmanned aerial vehicles.   

  With an admirable nod to realism and player preference, Task Force Dagger offers toggles for crosshair 
 spread, scope drift, recoil, and even the effect of wind on ballistics. Unfortunately, the way 
 the game handles weapons isn't quite as admirable. Task Force Dagger gives you so many firearms 
 that it becomes difficult to even tell the difference between them. It would probably have been 
 better to offer fewer weapons and more strongly emphasize their tactical differences. Also, the 
 game gives you precious little control over throwing grenades, and you can literally switch weapons 
 instantly -- an astounding trick that real soldiers would surely love to learn. What's even more 
 ridiculous is that bombs from air strikes explode with about the same force as a grenade. An explosion 
 right near a guard tower will leave both tower and guard miraculously unscathed.   

  On top of that, the game's physics suffer from a severe lack of realism. You can fall great distances 
 without so much as a sprained ankle, and when you jump, you seem to actually  float  through the 
 air. When prone, you can casually and quickly move sideways for hundreds of yards without getting 
 fatigued.           Bland and boring locales, bland and boring gameplay.    

 Task Force Dagger features the same core graphics engine found in Delta Force: Land Warrior. This 
 means that you're going to get a game with some dated, problematic visuals. On the bright side, 
 the engine can render sprawling outdoor levels. Then again, the game's textures appear simple and 
 boring, generic buildings tend to be inexplicably devoid of furnishings, explosions can look downright 
 silly, and the terrain shimmers like mad whenever you move.   

  The audio won't win any prizes, either. When you fire a gun outdoors, it sounds like you're shooting 
 inside a cave. Enemy voices carry too far and too clearly, and the commander who briefs you at 
 the beginning of each mission sounds oddly bored -- maybe he just finished playing this game.   

 
  Delta Force: Task Force Dagger offers one or two vaguely entertaining features, like aerial reconnaissance, 
 but in the end these things are buried under the weight of the game's many disappointing traits. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bigbomb2
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I never really loved this game. I played it for a while and liked it when i was younger, but now 
 I see what it really is. It is an incompetent shooter which isn't really too great or even good. 
 I barely like it. It does have some fun moments, but overall, it really isn't worth your time.
 
  
  Positive- Lots of guns, decent looking skins to choose from.
  
  Negative- Bad graphics, poor sound, bland maps, bad AI, weak singleplayer, takes a while to actually 
 fight someone.
  
  It's not a really good game. It may have some moments, but it isn't too recommended to anyone. 
 Only Delta Force fanatics will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Here is what the Official website has to say about the game:
  
  BECOME THE BEST - Play as any one of these Special Forces units: SFOD-Delta, 2/75th RANGER, SEAL 
 Team 6, SFOD-SF Viper Team (Green Berets) , CIA Special Operations, UK SAS 22 Regiment, Australian 
 SASR, Canadian JTF-2, Marines Force Recon, and USAF CSAR (Air Force Pararescue) - all the actual 
 Special Forces units deployed in Operation Enduring Freedom.
  
  INFILTRATE ACTUAL LOCATIONS - 25 new Delta Force missions! Take over the Kandahar Airport, raid 
 rebel headquarters in Mazar-e-Sharif, ambush a convoy near the Pakistani border and demolish bunkers 
 in the foothills of Kabul.
  
  OVER 30 WEAPONS TO CHOOSE FROM - Gear up with a huge arsenal of machine guns, assault rifles, sniper 
 rifles, pistols and rocket launchers new to the Delta Force series.
  
  SPY ON THE ENEMY - Plan your attack with the element of surprise using visual intelligence gathered 
 from Unmanned Aerial Vehicles.
  
  RAIN DESTRUCTION FROM THE SKIES - Call in devastating air strikes to take out key SAM and SCUD 
 missile sites.
  
  LARGE-SCALE MULTIPLAYER - Create your own multiplayer games and maps with the mission editor. 10 
 new multiplayer maps included! *Battle online via NovaWorld.
  
  Review Scores: 4/5 PC Arena - 8/10 GameZone
  
  Whatever you read above is just plain nonsense. 
 I dont know what kind of an imbecile would give this game 8/10.
  
  To being with, there is absolutely no difference that I could find between this game and Land Warrior, 
 and thats not a good thing. Land Warrior was released in the year 2000, and Task Force Dagger 
 was released in 2002. The game play, graphics sound have remained virtually unchanged, and yet 
 IGN gave this game a rating of 7.3/10. I have no doubt in my mind that the review is biased, but 
 I am not here to discredit anyone. Ill just put forth my opinion.
  
  There isnt much to be said really, the graphics are dated, and the game play is just the same, 
 no difference at all. Aparnt from locations I couldnt find any difference between Land Warrior 
 and Task Force Dagger and considering that the games are released two years apart, that is something 
 to think about.
  
  The huge arsenal, really won't make much of a difference, the weapons all handle alike (poorly) . 
 I couldnt find any difference in the way the weapons worked, and using one or the other has no 
 impact.
  
  There is no scope of planning your strategy. I just took my weapons and shot everyone in sight 
 and went from one way point to another, calling an Air Strike whenever needed. Game Over.
  
  The game is a disaster. Don't bother playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Why do people hate the DF series so much. I dunno but I like it and I thought that this was an 
 ok addition to the series. First of all I would like to say that this was the first full version 
 of a DF game that I played. I would like to say right away that the were good and I always liked 
 that you had the sniper zoom to the side of you. I also liked the weapon selection and the fierce 
 combat that this game has. This game does have some problems that were in the other DF games like 
 sometimes where the game doesnt read that you've gotten to a checkpoint but since you can browse 
 through checkpoints, thats only a problem if you dont have a instrution book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 1.2
Date: May 26, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Horrible. Gameplay is borning ho here kill 3 guys at a camp then walk for an hour to 
 extraction point... Set in **** Graphics: Horrible as well even for a 2002 game. Delta force games 
 are know for there pretty graphics. The guns dont even look like a gun usuauly u can only see the 
 tip of the barrel. terroists look like pirates.. everyone of them has a turban and a eye patch. 
 They differ little to none.
  
  Sound: Amazingly bad guns sound like pea shooters and the screams of the dying sound like 3 gorrils 
 are having a orgy. Voiceacting is horried as well.
  
  Value: Can you believ this POS used to be 50 bucks.. i would not even download this off a torrent.
 
  
  Replayabilty: None: My advice is dont play it all ALL!!!
  
  The Good: Set in afganistan the only game to be.
  
  The Bad: everything except for the above 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  The developer Zombie should be ashamed of themselves, this game is a steaming pile of trash!
  
  The graphics on Task Force Dagger are seriously out dated, it in fact looked exactly the same 
 as Land Warrior. The game was released in 2002 and by that time we'd had games like Red Faction, 
 Unreal II (yes I know it's crap but i'm trying to make a point) , Return of Castle Wolfenstein, 
 Serious Sam and the list keeps going.
  
  The sound effects are completely average and aren't any improvement over the previous games.
 
  
  AI AI AI or lack of. The AI in this game is as bad as Land Warrior and worse (if that were even 
 possible) . They still do stupid things such as keep trying to walk through walks, get stuck in 
 walls, shoot through walls, automatically know you're in a certain place, shoot at walls, kill 
 themselves. Even with all that your own team members join in and try their best to get you killed 
 as well. On several occasions I had one of my team members kill me with a grenade in the face.
 
  
  Task Force Dagger brings nothing really new to the series or the genre.
  Do yourself a favour if you see it, immediately ask a sales assistant to seal off the area, remove 
 the offending item, throw it in the bin and then decontaminate the area! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtdewtag
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force: Task Force Dagger is the 4th game in the series. Where once again you play as a Delta 
 Force commando. The big difference with this game is now you can pick your commando. Want to be 
 Marine? Or a Navy SEAL? Or a British SAS? The list goes on.
  
  Gameplay: Straight forward first person shooter with the same controls as the previous versions. 
 The big difference here is that you can choose a specific type of commando that fits you. However 
 after playing most of the characters they are basically the same except graphic wise.
  
  Graphics: I put this at just above average because one of the best features about this game is 
 you now can have a unique looking character without modding your game. However after that the graphics 
 are just average for a shooter game. Nothing spectacular that sticks out. But you do get a few 
 different battlefields so to speak to defend or attack.
  
  Sound: Nothing special here. Like the rest of the series sound is not much. 
  
  Value: If you 
 must own the whole series then buy this game. Replay is about average but only because you can 
 take this game online just like Land Warrior.
  
  Tilt: Delta Force: Task Force Dagger became a disappointment to me shortly after I got this game. 
 As a single player game I like it alot. However when I went online to play it I was immediately 
 turned off by the game and have not returned. I was standing in a bunker out of sight of others 
 and at the spawn point for my team. When suddenly another player scored a head shot on me. I respawned 
 went into the bunker again and this time layed down on the ground. About 2 minutes later the same 
 player scored yet another head shot on me. I decided maybe it was the map and the other player 
 was not scoring head shots on everyone of his kills.
  
  The next map comes up and before I can even move from the spawn point I find myself getting head 
 shot again by the same player. Now this player is scoring a head shot on every other kill he makes.
 
  
  I left that map and tried a few others but most of them were the same. Way too many cheaters. I 
 know this is a lame reason to give up on a game but if you can not enjoy a decent game on a public 
 server. Then alot of the value is taking out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_devil52
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 29, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok well first off lets start with what's good about Task Force Dagger...
  
  
  
  ... Now on to the bad stuff.
  
  TFD is a game who's graphics really annoy me. I can barely play 
 the game for 15 minutes without wanting to throw up.
  
  The weaponry, which although is vast, seems rather samey and it gets hard to tell the difference 
 between guns. In fact, the only difference seems to be their rate of fire as one bullet from an 
 M60 can do about the same damage as a SOCOM.
  
  The missions are also very much alike. Go here, kill some pathetic AI-enemy, destroy this, get 
 out. The only way you can die is if you get overwhelmed by the enemy or you just accidenty throw 
 a grenade at your feet.
  
  Online, although it does pick up a bit, it is nothing special. You get a Nova account with stats 
 if you play on Novaworld servers but after a while it won't matter because you'll have given up 
 anyway.
  
  My advice is to avoid this like the plague or, if you like a bit of torture, pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanderstag
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 18, 2004 6:37 am PT
Review:  No wonder this game was being sold so cheap. I thought I was getting a good deal until I started 
 playing it. The graphics are terrible and the gameplay in single player, pretty sad. I played this 
 for a while, being a fan of the DF series, but eventually grew sick of the bad gameplay. The landscapes 
 are pretty bland and the missions very boring.
  Some glimmer of hope can be had for multiplayer. While it's nothing to admire too much, it does 
 offer some redeeming hope for the value of the whopping eight dollars I spent. Then I encounter 
 the various cheaters inherent to online DF gameplay and that leaves a sour taste in my mouth.
 
  I'd sooner spend my eight dollars watching some horrid melodrama at the movie theater than spend 
 it on this. Definitely something to re-gift if you receive as a present. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2004 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't help the delta force series at all, it's just plain not fun, theres alot of weapons 
 and all, but it's just not fun to play, I'd rather watch paint dry then play this game. At first, 
 I thought it would be a good game and all, but it's just plain horrible. THe missions aren't inspriting 
 at all and nothing is really interesting about the game from start to end. Don't bother with this 
 game, it's not worth any of your money. The graphics aren't great, the sound is horrible. It's 
 another one of novalogics bad games, It's another delta force 2 game, which i think they tried 
 to do in this game, but weren't sucessful at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelsBeast
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2004 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Huge battlegrounds and great weapons, what more could you ask for? The controls are simple and 
 you can learn them in minutes. The weapons fire pretty close to the way they do in real life and 
 one shot with about any weapon will take anyone down. The enemy AI could be improved. If you are 
 any distance away from them they will just drop to the ground and wait for you to find somewhere 
 you can shoot them from. Up close they can be difficult to fight more than 3.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics could defiantly use some improving. The land is all the same and bland 
 with nothing but a few trees or structures where your mission is located. Also the level of detail 
 is extremely low. But the good part is that even on slower systems the game will not skip or lag. 
 Also the graphics really dont take away from the gameplay but they still need improving.
  
  Sound:
  There really isnt any ambient sound, and the gunfire should be louder than it is. 
 The enemies practically give their position away all the time by talking, which brings the difficulty 
 level down some. The worst part about the sound is that there isnt much of it, between gun fights 
 all you hear is your feet on the ground. Insects, birds, dogs, etc would have improved this some.
 
  
  Summary:
  This is my favorite game series, I love to use the 50cal. Sniper rifle and take everyone down before 
 I even get near the objective. If you want a game were you get to play with sniper rifles and a 
 little close combat to go along with it than this is it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  Delta Force: Task Force Dagger is the forth game in the Delta Force series, and it's by far the 
 worst and most uninspired game yet. It probably only took them a month to create the game.
  
  They didn't improve on anything, this game is nothing more then Land Warior with new missions 
 and a little detail added to buildings. So if you have played Land Warrior you pretty much have 
 played Task Force Dagger. It uses the same hud, the same dated graphics engine, and the same terrible 
 enemy AI. You can chose from more soliders now, but who cares. You don't get a audio recorded mission 
 briefing now like in all the past Delta Force games. You do get a silenced assult rifle, I would 
 say that's the best improvment in the game. The sound is the same as in Land Warrior. The buildings 
 are the same as in DF2 and Land Warrior, just with a little more detail to them. 
  
  This game is a letdown, I didn't even bother with the multiplayer, I'm glad I borrowed it from 
 a friend. I don't know why Novalogic doesn't want to improve their Delta Force games, they just 
 shine it up as little as possible, create new missions, think of a new name for the game and new 
 box art and ship the crap to the stores. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
