-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Delta Force
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deltaforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 11, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.1, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 977 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NovaLogic
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Sep 30, 1998 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If ever there was a game that proved the value of gameplay over graphics, it's Delta Force. 

 
 At first glance, NovaLogic's Delta Force doesn't look like the sort of action game you might expect 
 to see here at the tail end of 1998. After all, a game in this genre has to be 3D accelerated to 
 be good, right? Not necessarily. If ever there was a game that proved the value of gameplay over 
 graphics, it's Delta Force.  

 Delta Force is a game of special forces combat against terrorist and insurgent forces. You can play 
 the game from either a first- or third-person viewpoint. You can even do both at the same time, 
 thanks to the picture-in-picture feature that lets you see your first-person view in a small window 
 while playing the game from a third-person POV.  

 While comparisons to Rainbow Six are inevitable, Delta Force bears only a passing similarity to 
 Red Storm's tactical shooter. For starters, you do not plan your own operations in Delta Force; 
 they are assigned to you. You also do not have the luxury of working with seven squad mates. You 
 will typically have two to four other soldiers in the field with you, but they make up separate 
 assault teams that you cannot control (and which often have separate, specific mission goals) . 
 Finally, each of the game's 40 missions takes place in the great outdoors. The only real similarity 
 between the two games is the special forces angle and the semirealistic action where one shot translates 
 into one kill.  

 Delta Force includes five single-player campaigns, each against a different foe in a different theater: 
 a drug lord in Peru, terrorists in Chad, terrorists in Indonesia, insurgents in Uzbekistan, and 
 more terrorists on the Russian island of Novaya Zemlya. The foliage (which is universally sparse) , 
 the buildings, and the bad guys all vary from region to region, though the landscapes are all pretty 
 much the same except for color changes (green for jungle, tan for the desert, white for the snowy 
 arctic circle, and so on) . Rolling hills and plains pitted by deep, smooth canyons are pretty much 
 the standard terrain type here.  

 Most of your missions involve finding and eliminating an enemy base, but these are well varied because 
 of differences between the many bases you attack. At the beginning of the game, for example, you'll 
 encounter enemy strongholds that are typically guarded by foot soldiers, a few roving patrols, 
 and maybe a guard tower or two. Later on, these bases become much more formidable, with bunkers, 
 razor wire fences, increased patrols, and even a few enemy helicopters.  

 The attack-and-destroy missions are interspersed with a healthy number of other scenarios. For example, 
 there are a few missions where you will have to infiltrate a base to steal a laptop or some other 
 source of intelligence data. Others include rescue missions, convoy ambushes, and (in one of my 
 favorites) laser-designating targets for naval bombardment. Overall, the mission design in Delta 
 Force is very strong. Another positive note is the fact that you have a lot of control over the 
 order in which these missions are completed. You can even skip around from theater to theater, 
 if you like. And even though the basic goal is pretty much the same throughout (kill all the bad 
 guys and make it to your extraction point alive) , the mission specifics are varied enough to keep 
 things exciting, challenging, and reasonably fresh.  

 One point where Delta Force could stand some improvement, however, is in the mission-planning phase. 
 As mentioned earlier, you have no say in the mission plan itself. You can alter your starting equipment 
 and weaponry, but the mission waypoints are fixed - and suicidal. Nearly every mission is planned 
 out so that your first dozen or so steps will take you straight into the heart of heavy, concentrated 
 enemy fire. The best way to complete most missions is to ignore the waypoints entirely and make 
 your way slowly around the objective, sniping all visible bad guys from extreme range before moving 
 in to mop up the survivors. Unfortunately, the movements of your fellow soldiers seem to be triggered 
 by the waypoints, so they will not always move if you don't walk over a particular spot on the 
 map. This was especially evident on the last mission in Novaya Zemlya, where my pals in Charlie 
 Team stayed safely hunkered down in a ditch - about 10 feet from a group of four terrorists - throughout 
 the entire mission.  

 Then again, the computer-controlled good guys aren't often much help anyway (particularly Charlie 
 Team, which was about as useful as red shirts in Star Trek) . For some reason, these poor fools 
 got wiped out early in almost every single mission, often before I could even make it to my first 
 few waypoints (maybe that's why they wouldn't leave their hole on the last mission) . The 
 AI for enemy troops, on the other hand, is quite good. Unlike in Rainbow Six, a bad guy in Delta 
 Force will most certainly respond when you blow away his buddy - and so will a dozen or so of his 
 comrades. Opening up with an automatic weapon from an unprotected spot is sheer suicide, as the 
 bad guys will quickly home in on your stream of fire and wipe you out. Also, a few shots in the 
 wrong place or at the wrong time will bring in hordes of reinforcements to make your job more difficult. 
 Still, for the sake of playability and game balance, the bad guys generally present you with a 
 good target and pause enough between shots to give you ample time to react to an attack.  

 Your ability to locate and kill your enemy, however, is directly proportional to the speed and power 
 of your PC. Based on NovaLogic's highly tweaked Voxel Space 3 engine, the unaccelerated graphics 
 in Delta Force are functional, with even an occasional hint of brilliance - but only on a well-equipped 
 Pentium II machine. The game's minimum spec calls for a Pentium 166 with 32MB RAM, but on a Pentium 
 233 with 64MB RAM and a 12MB Voodoo 2 card, the game crawled along at any resolution higher than 
 512x384 at 256 colors and looked just plain ugly at any of the lower settings. Unless you have 
 at least a Pentium II 300 with 64MB RAM and an 8MB video card, you will have a hard time picking 
 out enemy troops from the multicolored chunks that make up the landscape. NovaLogic is reportedly 
 working on a 3Dfx patch that will accelerate the character animations and the building rendering 
 (all of which is polygonal) , but no release date has been set for that patch.  

 Still, the tepid graphics engine does not ruin this game. So long as you have the hardware to run 
 it at 640x480 with 16 million colors (the aforementioned Pentium II 300 can do this just fine) , 
 Delta Force can actually be quite impressive from a visual standpoint. The maps are all very well 
 designed, as are the various bases, airfields, and other objectives you'll encounter. The player 
 and enemy animations are excellent and realistic. The death animations even vary depending on where 
 a character is shot. And the rolling terrain makes sniping a real challenge, as you often have 
 to wait for a bad guy to pop up from behind a rise before pulling the trigger. The idea was to 
 create believable outdoor environments where combat could take place at extreme ranges (we're talking 
 about distances of up to a kilometer here) , and Delta Force truly delivers in that respect.  

 
 The game's Dolby Pro Logic 3D positional sound and excellent sound effects make the battlefield 
 even more realistic and immersive. The sound of bullets whizzing by is often the only indicator 
 you have that you're under fire. When you hear slugs hitting the ground all around you, you know 
 that it's time to move and move fast. Also, the shouts of your enemies (which come complete in 
 a language native to the theater) will let you know whether or not you've been spotted. Once, after 
 shooting a Peruvian at point-blank range, I heard him yell "Medico! Medico!" before crumpling to 
 the ground.  

 The weapon sound effects, from the suppressed H&amp; K MP5 to the mighty M249 SAW, are utterly fantastic 
 - possibly the best I've ever heard. In multiplayer games, the weapon sounds of 32 players combine 
 into an unforgettable din. When you enter a multiplayer game of Delta Force on NovaWorld, NovaLogic's 
 free gaming service, you will feel like you're entering a real combat zone.  

 In general, multiplayer games of Delta Force are incredibly fun - when they work. NovaWorld is very 
 obviously lacking in the bandwidth department, and reports are flying all over the Net about difficulties 
 getting this game to work well over modem and generic Internet links. Still, if you catch NovaWorld 
 on a good day and at a good time, you're in for a treat. Delta Force online is one of the most 
 enjoyable and thrilling multiplayer experiences I've ever had. Game variants like capture the flag, 
 king of the hill, and team deathmatch are a real blast no matter how many players are in a game. 
 While the game has several flaws, such as horrific warping, questionable stability, and bizarre 
 scoring glitches, it's still a lot of fun. Hopefully, NovaLogic will address the game's problems 
 in a patch or two. One feature it should add is the ability for players to start their own games 
 on NovaWorld (currently, you are limited to a set number of games already in progress) . And for 
 all you deathmatch purists out there, forget all that crap about the evils of camping. Sniping 
 is the key to victory in Delta Force. If your CTF team does not have a sniper or two in the hills, 
 for example, you simply will not win.  

 Delta Force is a very impressive game overall, despite the limitations of the graphics engine and 
 the multiplayer flaws. The excellent single-player gameplay, the solid multiplayer component, and 
 the incredibly immersive battlefield environment make for a truly impressive game. Any action fan 
 who is open-minded enough to look past the graphics engine will see a game that easily ranks with 
 Rainbow Six as one of the year's best "alternative shooters." Just make sure you have a powerful 
 system, otherwise you'll waste all of your ammo firing at pixels you could almost swear had just 
 been moving.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Acurate_Bob
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  For me this game WAS the best FPS going, its environments were massive and the viewing distance 
 was extremely far, and so is the drawing distance (how far you can see them on the screen) . 
  
  And the distance is not like i t is today, in GRAW a good shot with a sniper rifle is around 
 500 meters or so, a CLASS shot on this reaches into the kilometers, I saved a screen of my longest 
 kll on Delta Force, 2314 meters! get that on GRAW!
  
  So packing a sniper rifle usually worked for me, and from this game i LOVE being the sniper, and 
 still do.
  
  This class caried on through the whole series, i was always the sniper.
  
  But, its only a small but too, the graphics arent that good, but to be honest, from 1999, what 
 DID look good in games???
  
  aside from Rainbow Six, there was nothing...
  
  I reccomend any FPS fan should get this game, cause these new games like Raindow 6: Vegas, GRAW2, 
 HALO 3, Gears Of War2, all of them great, but also very liniear, always follow this path to get 
 here, then kill this blah blah blah.
  
  Delta Force series right the way through, except Urban Warfare, follows the You must do this, but 
 do it in your own way style.
  
  Its just a shame hat you HAD to follow the checkpoints to actually finish the missions, still, 
 its open for literally MILES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force has got to be the most overrated and most disastrous game I have ever played. There 
 are far too many glitches to rate it properly.
  
  First, the graphics. If you want to see the worst graphics of 1998, then go buy Delta Force. Compared 
 to modern games (like FarCry, Crysis, Halo) it seems like an ape. The texture quality might make you 
 think that you are in some alien world.
  
  Second, the gameplay. In spite of having a good theme of a special commando, the gameplay was more 
 than disastrous, it was catastrophic. When you shoot an enemy in the leg, he dies murmuring something 
 in a foreign language (I thought it was Arabic) . Even if you shoot him in the head from the front, 
 he will still keep murmuring it. If you shoot from a silenced pistol in the head, he will take 
 two shots to die while one shot from a normal pistol in the hands will kill him. The commando can 
 jump like a kangaroo and yet is carrying a large variety of weapons including pistols, assault 
 rifles, SMG, bazookas, grenades, mines, C4 charges and a laser designator (even Arnold Schwarzenegger 
 can't do that) . A poor array of weapons to choose from and hopeless sound effect makes the game 
 even more intolerable.
  
  Third, the game's campaigns are disastrously small. I finished of all the campaigns in 18 hours 
 in the max. difficulty mode. Just for fun I tried playing it with cheat codes in easiest mode and 
 it took me less than an hour.
  
  Lastly, I HATE THE HOSTAGES. The hostages seems to have an affinity of getting themselves killed. 
 If I lead them in one direction, 9 out of 10 times, they will wander of into enemy fire and get 
 themselves killed (At one point I got so irritated with them that I blew up all the hostages with 
 a bazooka and happily failed my mission) .
  
  FINAL VERDICT: Don't buy it. Wait for someone to gift it to you if you at all want to check it out. 
 However if your computer is around 10 to 15 years old, then I waiver that is the best buy you got. 
 Either you buy Delta Force or get a high-end PC and believe me getting a PC will help you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Justiciero
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  I played this game only until i finished it offline. It was great fun. 40 missions with so different 
 locations and enemies. I would like them to be 400 missions. So i replayed it a couple of times.
 
  
  Later i played online through Novalogic and it was really fantastic. 100% action and some tactics 
 to stay alive. I played capture the flag and was almost always the first in points (no one went 
 to take flags, i don't know why) . And other funny game i didn't played before: sniper only. Yes, 
 only your rifle (no authomatic) and your silece to try to catch the others before you receive a 
 headshot.
  
  The maps were huge and you can take the missions as you wish. They are scripted to run around your 
 waypoints but you can forget your designed way and go on your own. The buildings and huts, the 
 vehicles, the towers, the fences, all makes each mission different. And you can make your own with 
 the editor, there are great users maps around. The weapons' sounds, the shouts, haha, i am spanish 
 and it was hilarious hearing the southamerican voices. The night missions and the stealth missions 
 really well done, not Metal Gear but this is a action oriented game, not like Hidden & Dangerous.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintballman97
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Well ive been playing this game for a long time now. The first thing I wanna note is that it counts 
 up ur kills which is awesome. The graphics arent the best but who cares? It was made it 1998 people! The 
 game play is very fun, adding different objectives almost on all the 40 missions. Yeah i said it,40 
 missions! Playing 40 missions is very fun. The sound is very accurate. You can hear sniper rifles 
 going off in the distance! So the question is, why buy this game.1. Its fun 2. Its fun and 3. Well its 
 fun, nothing much else to say! Buy it, you know you want to. Cause if you dont buy it, your missing 
 one heck of a game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GibboViper
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  Delta Force
  
  Ok, for Delta force first thing we have to do is remember that this game was released in 1998. 
 SO we are talking almost a decade here. Yes a decade! Time has passed us all by!
  Once again you are Special Forces against terrorist forces. You have to work your way through various 
 undercover operations with occasionally 3 or 4 additional soldiers helping you in the field. You 
 have approximately 40 missions to work your way through each one a varying difficultly. Theres 
 plenty to do in Delta force from recovering items at the end of missions, rescue missions and search 
 and destroy. All of which are pretty fun to play through. The AI enemy is pretty good in Delta 
 force with a good barrage of bullets coming your way as soon as you show yourself. Your AI buddys 
 seem to give you away on coming up to mission waypoints and trying to keep them alive proves difficult 
 most of the time. Sometimes they even prove to be a hindrance in certain missions. The graphics 
 arent 3 D accelerated and run using a voxel space 3 engine. Your basic pc back then would play 
 this game just fine. The graphics, still look just fine and really do give you the feel of being 
 in an outdoor environment. The scenarios are wide and spacious and you feel you have the ability 
 to roam far and calculate exactly where your going to execute your attack from. Again the sound 
 effects are spot on and you can calculate exactly where an enemy is shooting at you from by the 
 sound of the bullets whizzing by or even that tell tail bang of that 50 cal going off 200 meters 
 to the right!, yes its that precise. The weapons and environment really draw you in making it a 
 pleasurable experience to play. The multiplayer feature is fantastic and hooking up onto one of 
 novaworlds servers is always going to be hugely fun and no doubt you will make numerous friends 
 there. All in all Delta force set the trend for one of nova logics biggest success stories and 
 give millions of fans years of gaming fun on servers for years to come! A true classic!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  From a distance, DF doesn't look that great. That's true, but the gameplay is pretty good though. 
 You start off by making an ID, and even choosing your country which is kind of neat. Throughout 
 the game you'll be doing a bit of globe hoping, indonesia, a few african and south american countries 
 etc, but there's nothing distinguising them other than the fact that the missions are different. 
 You have a selection of weapons including pistols, machine guns, rifles etc, but you also have 
 other inventory necessary for mission objectives (claymores for example) . Gameplay wise the game 
 is... kind of stupid, but you get over it pretty quick. The one thing it does right though is putting 
 you in the shoes of a DF member, you'll feel pretty cool with your trusty sniper rifle shooting 
 the crap out of drug lords etc. Which leads me to another little tidbit. Shooting. Basically, if 
 you shoot someone in the foot, they're dead, same goes with the hand etc. Even if you use the pistol 
 (which is craptacular by the way) , you'll still killing them left right and centre. But don't think 
 your invincible, one shot is all they need to know where you are. They must have hearing like bats 
 I tell you! They will then procede to shoot you wherever you are and they won't stop. In the real 
 world it would translate to wasting bucket loads of ammunition, but howsoever. AI is pathetic, 
 but again, they can still kill you, and will. My tactic in most of the games was just to get a 
 sniper rifle and shoot everybody from a hill. Kind of chicken of course, but you can't do that 
 all the time. Sound is sub-par, there's no music, and the guns sound tame and feel like cap-guns 
 really. The radio chatter with your squad mates is ok though. I mean, they won't be discussing 
 their fear of chickens or anything like that, they'll just give you the basics Charlie one is down. 
 Get to the pick up point etc etc. The other gripe is running speed, its a little bit slow for my 
 taste, I think its going for realism or something like that. Which is funny seeing as apparently 
 being shot in the foot is a death sentence.
  
  All in all, its an ok game, but not one I could say its a MUST play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GU-Trooper92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Well here is my little review on DELTA FORCE and it basically covers everything that I want you 
 to know:
  
  Gameplay:
  9/10 because it features dozens of realistic stuff that make you wanna play more and really see 
 te action.
  
  Graphics:
  8/10 not the best but hey we all played mario with choppy graphics and graphics dont always matter 
 when it comes to gameplay.
  
  Sound:
  9/10 because it resembles lots of machine gun firing and pistol shots. Very realistic sounds that 
 always are in this game
  
  Value:
  10/10 this game proves that only gameplay matters not the graphics
  
  I would recommend this 
 game to everyone who has a PC because it doesnt need a powerfull PC to play. The rest is up to 
 you!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Although this game is already 8 years old at the moment I am writing this. It still gives me a 
 lot of good memories. It was my first encounter with a tactical shooter and a relief after playing 
 shoot-em-ups like Wolfenstein or Doom. It was also the first shooter I played on a (small) LAN 
 party. Both death-matches and co-ops were a large succes. At this moment the graphics are outdated 
 of course and the AI could be better. But it is sometimes just a lot of fun playing this kinf of 
 oldschool games. So check out the bargain bin and see if you can still find this game. It is still 
 a lot better than its successors DF2, Land Warrior and Task Force Dagger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I put Delta Force on with absolutely no expectations. Released in 1998, it wasn't until April 2006 
 that I played this. And while it looks very dated compared to more recent releases, it still has 
 a decent game at its core.
  
  Essentially, you play the 'Bravo' component of one of the military's elite crew - Delta Force. 
 Just short of saving the world, you are sent to different locations in the world to neutralise 
 a hostile force. Spanning five campaigns and forty missions, the action ranges from eliminating 
 all hostile forces, to eliminating infrastructure, to securing important items and protecting or 
 destroying a convoy.
  
  While the mission briefings are detailed and informative, they are specifically structured. You 
 need to go from way point to way point before reaching an objective and then moving to an extraction 
 point. The briefing will advise of the type of hostilities to expect and where / when you team 
 mates will be situated and move. While you can deviate from the mission path, generally you do 
 need to go from way point to way point to trigger an action in the mission, and I found myself 
 backtracking 500 metres or so on some occasions just to tick that box.
  
  While you do have others working with you, they cannot really by relied on. They will take out 
 one or two of the enemies for you before being knocked over themselves and most of the time you 
 are entering the objective site with no backup. 
  
  The AI is certainly dated, I've seen enemies run straight past me, and I've also stood in a room 
 with an enemy looking the other way for ten seconds before deciding to put him out of his misery. 
 The enemy does flank reasonably well, and can take some form of cover, but they are also sitting 
 ducks on some instances as well. Having said that, they did knock me over on quite a few occasions.
 
  
  The graphics and sound also show their age, the voxel engine is certainly one for the time machine. 
 However, the outdoor environments are very large and very well designed, with plenty of useful 
 locations to bunker in or launch and offensive, and there is a clear view of a fairly long way 
 through the scope of one's weapon.
  
  Delta Force's strength is in the gameplay and the variety of missions. While the first campaign 
 is quite easy, by the time you get to the fourth it is quite challenging. There are a number of 
 missions in a variety of settings and with a variety of objectives. A couple of personal favourites 
 include guarding a convoy and sneaking into camps and securing important items. There are more 
 defensive units (bunkers, wire, towers) as you progress through the campaigns - and it is usually 
 one or two hits and you're finished. There are no magic medical packs and no save points. You learn 
 to value your life. While some probably could go into the missions all guns blazing, some caution 
 and planning is needed to keep yourself alive.
  
  There is a good variety of weapons available, but you will find yourself sticking with one or two 
 of them only. There are also useful maps and a variety of viewpoints you can refer to during the 
 missions. The enemies speak in their native languages - which is a good idea. I liked hearing one 
 of them saying in their language 'I'm confused!' when I was picking them off from a difference.
 
  
  After 40 missions you have seen it all, but in the end it's an enjoyable ride getting there.
 
  
  I am glad I've played Delta Force. I have some other more recent and no doubt more attractive titles 
 in the cupboard that I am yet to play, but I am waiting to upgrade a bit before playing those. 
 Instead I am going through some of the older titles and it is worth it. I picked this up for $AUD6.78 
 (which also included Alien vs Predator and Hidden & Dangerous + Expansion) on Ebay, so value for 
 money is pretty good.
  
  If you don't expect the next big thing, you'll probably enjoy Delta Force. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  One of the good shooters to come out I mean the talk was Delta Force at that time, the game is 
 pretty good except that the AI is pretty dumb and you end up shooting a whole army of enemies all 
 by your self, not that much of a hard game..
  
  The graphics are prtty lame and not so good the sounds in the other hand are not so bad. But does 
 not give the expected feeling that you are in a real war, I mean that's dumb you have to shoot 
 a whole enemy army with a small group of soldiers.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force offers around 45 single-player missions, including 25 sorties split between two campaigns 
 and 20 stand-alone scenarios, in which you must prove yourself against large and heavily armed 
 terrorist armies. In most cases, you'll work alone or with a handful of computer-controlled support 
 teams. Most scenarios involve a clandestine attack-and-destroy mission against enemy bases, though 
 many also include hostage rescue, recovery of stolen assets, and other commando-style objectives. 
 The game also contains a powerful mission editor that lets you craft complex scenarios with relative 
 ease and even provides thorough documentation for it.
  
  The mission design in Delta Force is generally excellent. Not only are most scenarios more difficult 
 than the missions in the original, but they also seem realistic and believable. Although some are 
 definitely influenced by Hollywood (one stand-alone mission conjured memories of the train attack 
 scene in Lawrence of Arabia, for example) , even these are a lot of fun from beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtdewtag
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  Delta Force is your basic first person shooter. You are a solider in the Delta Force sent off on 
 a series of missions.
  
  Gameplay is your standard first person shooter. You will equip your solider with your choice of 
 weapon and gear and off you go. The number keys are used to access an item quickly. Like most first 
 person shooters you just move around the screen and attempt to take out all the bad guys.
  
  Gameplay is also set so as you will need to use some stealth and patience to get through most 
 levels. However on many levels of this game you can use the run and gun technique.
  
  Graphics even on a game this old the graphics are good. When you switch to your rifle scope it 
 allows you to examine stuff more closely. Some of the backgrounds are not quite up to today's standards. 
 Overall though the graphics for this game does rival some of the newer games out today.
  
  Sound is okay. Not much here mainly you will just hear your weapons and the occasional enemy shouting 
 out to warn others of your attack.
  
  Value: If you are into the Delta Force series this a good game for your collection. A straight 
 forward single player first person shooter. It does have some replay value as you can add some 
 user created maps to extend the life of the game. But overall the included maps will make you want 
 to play the game a couple of times through.
  
  Tilt: When I first got to play this game it was at a friend's house. When I saw it I my reaction 
 was here we go again yet another Doom clone. However after playing the first level I knew I needed 
 this game for my collection. The gameplay is good and you will find yourself trying all the weapons 
 and seeing how good you are with some. Imagine sniping with a M60. This game is about stealth and 
 sniping is a huge part of that type of missions. Some close quarters combat is added in but expect 
 to be stealthy most of the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the game that started off the whole Delta series. There's a lot of sniping, very little up 
 close and personal confrontations, which reflect how you'd fight across open terrain realistically. 
 The damage system is realistic as well, however the graphics are bad. Very bad. The vistas and 
 enemy soliders are poorly rendered when they are out of your proximity. They blend in together 
 and it takes a while to figure out that the slightly lighter shade of green on that hill is actually 
 an enemy soldier. I guess you can refer to that as real combat, to think of the enemy as wearing 
 camos. However this is a game after all so if you have to squint, it's not fun. Enemies are sometimes 
 little specks on the map, even after zooming in with your .50 cal rifle. You'll constantly be engaged 
 in zoom or scope mode because if you see an enemy without seeing him through your scope, chances 
 are game's over. Everything is blocky, but this was released in '98 after all and Novalogic does 
 address the above issues in later Delta games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Burly_
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  As I stepped into the realm of what Delta Force had to offer, I was set into a show that instantly 
 hooked me. Right from the first level, Delta force displayed some of the elements that showed me 
 why war games are fun. The atmosphere is the first element I noticed, though the graphics are not 
 as smooth as they could be, and from only about 20 feet away from an enemy, their face blurs into 
 a pixilated mess. What did bring the atmosphere out was the size of the parameter, and what the 
 designers did to make that huge space seem realistic, other than just a move to make each level 
 seem longer. The terrain itself is what creates this; it feels like each level flows naturally, 
 each crevice, hill, mountain, valley, every part of the terrain looks completely different, and 
 unsymmetrical. While the terrain also does this, it acts as the guiding point for each mission. 
 In order to pass missions, the most important thing is to utilize your surroundings to your advantage. 
 By taking cover, ambushing or what ever the situation may call for, the terrain is always there 
 to guide you. Not only does the terrain work well, but each mission is so different from the next, 
 the game really keeps you going from one type of game plan to another, one minute you'll be walking 
 along in a convoy while swarms of enemies come from either side of the valley your walking in, 
 and the next minute you could be sneaking up on a terrorist drug lord's mansion. The other element 
 that comes together somewhat nicely in Delta Force is the team mates that assist you in your mission. 
 Though they mean well, and sometimes can be a big help on missions, their movements are a little 
 to calculated, and they will go their exact same route, every time you do that certain mission. 
 After their route is done, they will crouch in one spot and never move again.
  
  Replay value is one thing that Delta Force gets right. One of the main factors for this is that 
 here is no certain way to complete each objective; actually, sometimes the planned objective isn't 
 the best way. The most common example of this is when you fire at enemies from a distance and miss; 
 they will run towards, or away from your location, depending on how far away you shoot from. Even 
 if you don't shoot at them, they will still be able to hear your gun fire and will quickly locate 
 you and light you up like a Christmas tree like there's no tomorrow. The other replay supporting 
 factor is the amount of missions that the game has, which is over 40. These aren't any half assed 
 missions. As you play on, more missions will be available, depending on which missions you complete, 
 which is a fairly daunting task. There also is online with Delta Force, which was very popular 
 at one time, but it has since then been deceased for a good few years now, considering the game 
 has been out for 7 years now, it's not a surprise.
  
  
  Among the presentation of the game, lies not all too impressive graphics as I stated earlier, there 
 still is a level of detail that supports the game's look. As when guns fire, their blue and red 
 streaks across the sky might not be the most realistic, but each gun's bullets do travel in parabolic 
 paths, allowing for a level of realism that makes you think twice before just aiming and shooting. 
 Even the inside of buildings, huts, and hutches are dressed up with little things like boxes, beds, 
 tables, chairs, radios, and other little things. Though it's nothing special, it's nice to see 
 that they put a little effort into buildings that you're only in for about like 5% of the game. 
 Other details include being able to shoot up trees and cacti, until they explode, or being able 
 to shoot down birds in the sky. Those are small things to care about indeed, but the sound is what 
 really plays a huge part in the game. As guns go a blaze'n, enemies talk and shout, helicopters 
 attack, and convoys of tanks, hum-v, and trucks ride along, the sound is a very important tool 
 in the game to let you know what's going on in your surroundings. Teammates even talk to you as 
 you complete your objectives, with a sense of competence too, they will let you know if they've 
 been hit, if they've secured a "package" (hostage, or whatever is trying to be obtained) ; they 
 also let you know when you need to go to your extraction point (when you finish a mission, a helicopter 
 will pick you up at this point on the map) . Overall the teammates, as well as the sound in general, 
 picks up exactly what the graphics are lacking, and adds to the game play while it's at it.
  
  As Delta Force is a FPS at heart, its controls aren't too much of a surprise. Though, there 
 is numerous camera angles, the 3rd person camera is almost useless and just seems like something 
 that's just for fun. But the controls work quite well, and are fully customizable as like most 
 PC FPS' controls are customizable. Each gun has different modes and such it can go into at the 
 touch of a button, like the grenade/sniper rifle/semi automatic machine gun. And if you don't feel 
 like going on the intended path, at the touch of a button, you can skip past intended check points 
 shown on the map. There really isn't much to complain about with the controls here, everything 
 just flows together, and rarely will a death result from a control problem.
  
  I loved every minute of Delta Force, from its huge landscapes, to it's in your face gorilla war 
 fare action; it was amazing and still is today. Though many might take it to be outdated, if your 
 looking for a less realistic war game, with a realistic feel to the action, this game is a must 
 have for your PC collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  If you like FPS, this has to be part of your collection. The author found this game in a bargain 
 bin at Shopko. It said First Person Shooter and the screen shots always had a weapon showing (real 
 clue that this is truly FPS) . There are a number of scenarios (8-10) to a series of campaigns. 
 Therefore, this can turn out to be a lengthy game, until the player finishes all the possible sorties.
 
  
  Weapons range from handguns to hand grenades. Usually there is a secondary weapon, like a light, 
 silenced submachine gun. The terrain varies greatly from snow in the arctic, to the desert, and 
 even a swamp scenario. The game play is exceptional for the cost of the game. Sound is great, mimicking 
 that of the weapons fired. Graphics are reflective of the time (1998) .
  
  Overall, the author though this was excellent game. Apparently, so did the rest of the gaming community, 
 since there are vast proliferations of sequels to expansion packs. The author thought the most 
 challenging part of this game was - NO SAVE features. If you got to the end and there was one enemy 
 there to kill you, the player started over.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximummaker
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2005 11:43 pm PT
Review:  As I stepped into the realm of what Delta Force had to offer, I was set into a show that instantly 
 hooked me. Right from the first level, Delta force displayed some of the elements that showed me 
 why war games are fun. The atmosphere is the first element I noticed, though the graphics are not 
 as smooth as they could be, and from only about 20 feet away from an enemy, their face blurs into 
 a pixilated mess. What did bring the atmosphere out was the size of the parameter, and what the 
 designers did to make that huge space seem realistic, other than just a move to make each level 
 seem longer. The terrain itself is what creates this; it feels like each level flows naturally, 
 each crevice, hill, mountain, valley, every part of the terrain looks completely different, and 
 unsymmetrical. While the terrain also does this, it acts as the guiding point for each mission. 
 In order to pass missions, the most important thing is to utilize your surroundings to your advantage. 
 By taking cover, ambushing or what ever the situation may call for, the terrain is always there 
 to guide you. Not only does the terrain work well, but each mission is so different from the next, 
 the game really keeps you going from one type of game plan to another, one minute you'll be walking 
 along in a convoy while swarms of enemies come from either side of the valley your walking in, 
 and the next minute you could be sneaking up on a terrorist drug lord's mansion. The other element 
 that comes together somewhat nicely in Delta Force is the team mates that assist you in your mission. 
 Though they mean well, and sometimes can be a big help on missions, their movements are a little 
 to calculated, and they will go their exact same route, every time you do that certain mission. 
 After their route is done, they will crouch in one spot and never move again.
  
  Replay value is one thing that Delta Force gets right. One of the main factors for this is that 
 here is no certain way to complete each objective; actually, sometimes the planned objective isn't 
 the best way. The most common example of this is when you fire at enemies from a distance and miss; 
 they will run towards, or away from your location, depending on how far away you shoot from. Even 
 if you don't shoot at them, they will still be able to hear your gun fire and will quickly locate 
 you and light you up like a Christmas tree like there's no tomorrow. The other replay supporting 
 factor is the amount of missions that the game has, which is over 40. These aren't any half assed 
 missions. As you play on, more missions will be available, depending on which missions you complete, 
 which is a fairly daunting task. There also is online with Delta Force, which was very popular 
 at one time, but it has since then been deceased for a good few years now, considering the game 
 has been out for 7 years now, it's not a surprise.
  
  
  
  Among the presentation of the game, lies not all too impressive graphics as I stated earlier, there 
 still is a level of detail that supports the game's look. As when guns fire, their blue and red 
 streaks across the sky might not be the most realistic, but each gun's bullets do travel in parabolic 
 paths, allowing for a level of realism that makes you think twice before just aiming and shooting. 
 Even the inside of buildings, huts, and hutches are dressed up with little things like boxes, beds, 
 tables, chairs, radios, and other little things. Though it's nothing special, it's nice to see 
 that they put a little effort into buildings that you're only in for about like 5% of the game. 
 Other details include being able to shoot up trees and cacti, until they explode, or being able 
 to shoot down birds in the sky. Those are small things to care about indeed, but the sound is what 
 really plays a huge part in the game. As guns go a blaze'n, enemies talk and shout, helicopters 
 attack, and convoys of tanks, hum-v, and trucks ride along, the sound is a very important tool 
 in the game to let you know what's going on in your surroundings. Teammates even talk to you as 
 you complete your objectives, with a sense of competence too, they will let you know if they've 
 been hit, if they've secured a "package" (hostage, or whatever is trying to be obtained) ; they 
 also let you know when you need to go to your extraction point (when you finish a mission, a helicopter 
 will pick you up at this point on the map) . Overall the teammates, as well as the sound in general, 
 picks up exactly what the graphics are lacking, and adds to the game play while it's at it.
  
  As Delta Force is a FPS at heart, its controls aren't too much of a surprise. Though, there 
 is numerous camera angles, the 3rd person camera is almost useless and just seems like something 
 that's just for fun. But the controls work quite well, and are fully customizable as like most 
 PC FPS' controls are customizable. Each gun has different modes and such it can go into at the 
 touch of a button, like the grenade/sniper rifle/semi automatic machine gun. And if you don't feel 
 like going on the intended path, at the touch of a button, you can skip past intended check points 
 shown on the map. There really isn't much to complain about with the controls here, everything 
 just flows together, and rarely will a death result from a control problem.
  
  I loved every minute of Delta Force, from its huge landscapes, to it's in your face gorilla war 
 fare action; it was amazing and still is today. Though many might take it to be outdated, if your 
 looking for a less realistic war game, with a realistic feel to the action, this game is a must 
 have for your PC collection.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
