-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Delta Force - Black Hawk Down: Team Sabre
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/blackhawkdownexp/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 23, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.7, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 590 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NovaLogic
Developer: Ritual Ent.
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Jan 20, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may not be realistic, but Team Sabre is packed with explosions, wild gunfights, and quite a bit 
 of fun -- though it's also extremely frustrating at times. 

  If it were a movie, Delta Force - Black Hawk Down: Team Sabre would be a Jerry Bruckheimer production. 
 Of course, the movie that Team Sabre is based on  was  a Bruckheimer production, but this expansion 
 pack has more in common with Bruckheimer's wildly over-the-top  Bad Boys II  than with the grittily 
 authentic  Black Hawk Down . Team Sabre may not be realistic, but it's packed with explosions, 
 wild gunfights, and quite a bit of fun -- though it's also extremely frustrating at times, due to 
 a limited save system coupled with some excruciatingly difficult gameplay.  

          A Black Hawk swoops low to provide support. You have to neutralize enemy RPG gunners or 
 they'll shoot it down.     

  Having exhausted the Somalia setting of  Black Hawk Down  in the original game, NovaLogic splits 
 the 11 missions in Team Sabre between fighting Colombian drug lords and defeating a rogue Iranian 
 general. In total, these missions should take most players 15 hours or so to complete. Like the 
 original game, the expansion offers a wide variety of mission objectives, like rescuing hostages 
 on an oil platform, blowing up drug boats, seizing an Iranian airfield, and saving the crew of 
 the occasional downed Black Hawk helicopter. There's little room for subtlety or stealth in these 
 missions; when you get down to it, everything basically devolves into shooting and blowing up virtually 
 everything you see.  

  To say that things explode gloriously in this game would be an understatement. Team Sabre looks 
 and sounds about as good as Black Hawk Down did last year -- so it's still looking and sounding pretty 
 good. However, in Team Sabre, vehicles blow up spectacularly; chassis fly up, bodies fly out, and 
 burning tires arc across the screen, all with convincingly loud and dramatic explosions. Even armored 
 personnel carriers burst into flame after you shoot them with your M16. It's certainly exaggerated, 
 but everything is consistently over-the-top. In the midst of all this mayhem, Team Sabre really 
 does convey the chaotic mess of modern-day combat. Enemy infantry charge at you, rocket-propelled 
 grenades streak by your head, technicals (pickup trucks with machine guns mounted on them) race 
 by, and Black Hawk helicopters fly past on strafing runs. At its very best, Team Sabre makes you 
 feel like all hell is breaking loose around you. The expansion's best moments involve desperate, 
 Alamo-like last stands, frantic convoy runs through enemy territory, or urban combat on the narrow 
 streets and alleyways of an Iranian town.  

  But there are also times when the game becomes insanely difficult. The single-player game consists 
 of six Iranian levels and five Colombian levels; the Iranian levels are reasonably challenging, 
 but the Colombian maps border on being unfair -- they may even remind you of the infamous Sniper 
 Town map in Medal of Honor Allied Assault, in which you could get picked off by enemies if you 
 made even the slightest mistake. Since all the missions are heavily scripted, the game's pace often 
 slows to a crawl as you figure out exactly when and where your enemies will appear. The Colombian 
 jungle missions are particularly tedious; the thick foliage and the steep hills serve to hide snipers 
 and RPG gunners until it's too late, turning the game into an exercise in trial and error, where 
 you have to load and reload your last saved games until you memorize the locations of all the hostiles. 

  Unfortunately, you have only a limited number of save-game slots, so you have to carefully ration 
 them out, and you may find yourself constantly replaying a certain section until you get it right. 
 Even if you do everything perfectly, in some missions, especially the Colombian ones, you may still 
 lose because your dumb teammates, or the dumb hostage you were escorting to safety, didn't know 
 how to duck when enemy fire was incoming. Or, you'll take a hit from an insanely accurate rocket-propelled 
 grenade from out of nowhere -- and this is all on the easiest difficulty setting -- or, on occasion, 
 the game will even crash.         A technical explodes gloriously into flames after taking only 
 a few shots from an M4 carbine.     

  Though it adds 11 new levels, Team Sabre adds only three new weapons and a few new vehicles. The 
 box claims that you can even play as a member of Britain's elite SAS, but that's only for one mission. 
 You can, however, play as an SAS operative in multiplayer. There are five new multiplayer environments 
 in the expansion, most of them drawn from the single-player campaign. Online play is where Team 
 Sabre breaks out of the frustrating scripted sequences of the campaign. It's not much different 
 from the multiplayer in the original game, but like the original game's multiplayer, Team Sabre's 
 multiplayer is fast, furious, and unforgiving, and it emphasizes the need to use proper team tactics. 
 With human teammates, you really do get the sense of being a member of a highly coordinated fighting 
 team, especially as you maneuver down narrow alleyways covering each other.  

  The $20 expansion has some stability problems in a few missions, but it's otherwise quite stable, 
 as is multiplayer play. Team Sabre will obviously appeal to Black Hawk Down fans looking for new 
 multiplayer content, but if you were frustrated with the gameplay in the original, then you'll 
 probably want to steer clear of Team Sabre. Then again, if you haven't played Black Hawk Down before 
 (the expansion requires the original game to play) and you're looking for a fun run-and-gun experience, 
 and you're willing to put up with some real frustration in some of the missions, you may want to 
 give Team Sabre a try.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  ==goodness== 
  
  it's excellent expansion of delta force black hawk down, with a new campaign map such as columbia, 
 iran. with a few new weapon u can choose. a few new vehicle and choopers with many various place. 
 and a hundred enemy out of there also. but u must spent much ur time to end this campaign. 
  
  ==badness==
  
  a few bug on there. but it's not main problem. hard difficulty. with the 
 bad Ai's combat for enemy and ur team mates, and have terrible sound also, why novalogic not release 
 mod or patch?? i think if novalogic release patch or mod, it will be fun and enjoyable to play, 
 the graphics not increase significly, but i f u fans of delta force series and like to play with 
 classic First Person Shooter, but and paly the expansion!!!. between the price and his compability, 
 it's not bad to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  I found the original Delta Force: Black Hawk Down a bit of a letdown. It lacked polish and the 
 grim setting (present for the whole game, which was something new for the series) and questionable 
 AI made it a fairly unsatisfying single player experience. Delta Force: Black Hawk Down  Team 
 Sabre was released about twelve months later and its better than Black Hawk Down, no doubt about 
 that. It offers dual campaigns, a much more effective take on outdoor combat and some impressive 
 special effects. It is a short game where fundamental problems with the AI remain, but it is action 
 aplenty otherwise.
  
  In Team Sabre you play as the usual highly trained combat operative taking on vast numbers of enemies 
 with a couple of team-mates in tow. The missions are based in (for different reasons) known hotspots 
 as the usual objectives of securing / destroying posts, capturing persons of interest, destroying 
 ordinance and rescuing hostages are undertaken. Whilst there is the odd bit of corridor crawling 
 and on-rails shooting, most of the gameplay is standard FPS and is undertaken in some vast and 
 well presented outdoor environments. Enemies come thick and fast and there are more explosions 
 that you will find in a John Woo movie.
  
  Graphically, Team Sabre presents very well. The original Black Hawk Down introduced a new engine 
 that did bring a fresh new look to the franchise. Team Sabre extends on this by providing some 
 excellently presented outdoor environments to operate in, both at day and night. Structures and 
 NPCs / enemies look reasonable and accurate enough and the arsenal you carry is certainly well 
 defined. But it is the huge outdoor environments especially through the Columbian missions, where 
 Team Sabre excels. Expect to do plenty of crawling through dense jungle with enemies littered across 
 the terrain. As already said, there are some seriously massive explosions during the game, and 
 whilst one does wonder whether a single bullet could initiate such an event, its an impressive 
 effect nonetheless. The in-game interface and title / options screens are all well presented and 
 easy to navigate.
  
  The special effects sound as good as they look. Explosions and gunfire rip through the speakers 
 and the environmental sound effects are appropriate. There is the usual opening / closing music 
 and the voice acting presenting missions and advising of new objectives in mission is effective. 
 Youll hear you opponents in dialogue from time to time and at times it is the silence which creates 
 as the tension before a skirmish. The sound works very well indeed.
  
  The gameplay is more of the standard Delta Force fare. Whilst its not traditional run and gun 
 with health packs and ammo abound (though both can be found on odd occasions) and where the avatar 
 can absorb monumental amounts of punishment (two to three hits is all you can take in a mission) , 
 its also not tight tactical action either. It sits in a strange void in between. As usual for 
 the Delta Force series, there is a serious arsenal available for you to choose from and all items 
 have their own nuances. The opportunity costs have to be weighed as you can only carry two items. 
 Sit back and snipe and run and gun (and hope for the best) are basically the two options available. 
 For the first time ever in the Delta Force series, I found the need to use smoke grenades to enable 
 progress.
  
  The missions are generally well thought out with a series of skirmishes from start to completion. 
 Without a doubt, the firefights are big in numbers and big in effects with explosions and gunfire 
 abound. There are also some night-time missions that add a sense of claustrophobia and crawling 
 through the villages is fraught with danger.
  
  I personally enjoyed the Columbian campaign as the jungle environment and large mission plans provided 
 an immersive atmosphere. Of the second campaign, there was an excellent mission involving storming 
 an oil rig, which (if it wasnt for some issues about to be mentioned) could have rated as one 
 of the top missions of all time. However, the eternal bogey of the Delta Force series, AI, is as 
 inconsistent as ever. Enemies still face corners, run from one scripted spot to the next and at 
 times dont even fire. Sitting ducks. And then youll be picked off at 150 metres by someone you 
 havent even seen yet. The game would be a more consistent and stable experience if the enemies 
 attacked Serious Sam style! Allied AI is not much better, but at times the do make important contributions 
 to the mission  and they do generally follow directions.
  
  This inconsistency is mirrored in the mission difficulty and save game structure. There are eleven 
 missions and two of them are horrendously difficult. Whats even stranger is that one of those 
 missions has (from memory) three save slots, where the easiest mission on the game has seven! Ultimately, 
 you will breeze through a majority of the missions, enjoying the firefights, carnage and impressive 
 effects the game offers. But then youll be crawling through the two or three hardest missions, 
 rote learning enemy positions, wondering if now is the time to save, or even restarting the whole 
 mission again as with the health left it is impossible to finish. And this wraps up the game perfectly, 
 generally good fun to play as you waltz through the levels, only to be ground to a halt by some 
 infuriating inconsistencies.
  
  I purchased the expansion pack for $AUD20 and that is reasonable enough for the half dozen hours 
 of gameplay on the default level for single player. For those who like to mix it up online, the 
 game comes with multiplayer and is still very well patronised today. It does add extra value for 
 money. The highest difficult level would be a challenge (perhaps even impossible on the most difficult 
 missions) for those motivated to do it all again.
  
  Delta Force: Black Hawk Down - Team Sabre serves up plenty of action in some impressive outdoor 
 environments. Some big time production values make it a Hollywood style experience as well work 
 your way through some serious special effects. But like the entire Delta Force series, the game 
 is positioned in a void between no holds barred run and gun and the more purposeful tactical 
 shooters. Add to this the AI problems that are present in the entire franchise and the frustratingly 
 inconsistent difficulties from mission to mission, Team Sabre sits basically where the entire series 
 does. Good but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTEEagleflight
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This game has been around long enough for people to realize that there can be no greater Multi-player 
 game that you can play without having to buy an all new PC. I have played Delta Force games since 
 its conception and have Enjoyed this version the best! And it is proven by over 3,000+ players 
 at a constant rate online! BHD and TS are the two games that have the most mods created for it 
 because of how much gamers love these versions! If you haven't played any NovaLogic Games I recommend 
 Whole Heartedly this one (and I feel sorry for your loss) Welcome to the real world boys and girls! 
 This is the game that has blown away all others! It may not be the best at graphics.... but the 
 gameplay more than compensates for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  I remember i first heard about this game a bit after i bought the original BHD game and i was so 
 excited and from that moment i turned to be a gamer . I was so excited to see the Buggy vehicles 
 and the Jungle Uniform and i so wanted to play the game!!!
  I remember that the day after i installed the game there was a little earthquake in Israel (nothing 
 happenes) .
  
  The game has 2 Campaigns. The Colobmia and the Iran as both of them has the same amount of levels.
 
  
  The Graphic is of course the same since it's an EP as well as the sound but the gameplay is so 
 much different now. the AI has been improved (a bit) makes the game harder only 3 new weapons (German 
 made) which for some reason has better reloadingas you see yourself cock it while the rest of the 
 guns lack the cocking when you reload the weapon. You can, in addition to the Delta and the 10th 
 Division, to be a SAS Commando for one cool mission (The 1st mission of the Iran campaign) . And 
 also there's a part in that mission where you can OR destroy all the ships silencly and smoothly 
 and by that when you'll reach the beach you won't find a platoon of soldiers waitng for you but 
 if the ships finds you before you find them there'll be an alarm that will set the platoon to come 
 and fight with you. There also few incidents like this in the game that make for you 2 ways to 
 complete the objective!!!
  
  The Jungle missions are Hard because you to fight agains tens of rebels everytime The missions 
 are also as i said before are much more varied which is good and the missions aren't repeatable 
 which is also good but the graphic and sound are same as they were before which mean the ARE repeatable... VERY 
 repeatable...
  
  In addition to the vehicles from the last game you'll have a Special Boat and a special Helicopter. 
 The game has about the same length as the first one but it's better than the first one even though 
 the missions aren't real as they were in the first game but it's still highly recommended game 
 as the Multiplayer mode is still awesome with more maps and options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  Delta Force: Team Sabre was perhaps the worst first-person shooter I have played in a long while.
 
  
  I saw this game for sale for under $20 at a local game shop, and figured Id try the demo for Delta 
 Force: Blackhawk Down before laying down the ducats. I must say that I am glad that I waited.
 
  
  The demo began with the player and his team of Delta Force operators choppering in to some locale 
 in Mogadishu, Somalia. As the choppers are moving in, numerous Somalis are firing RPGs at the choppers, 
 which the Delta operators are expected to dispatch before the choppers can land.
  
  The graphics were not what I expected for a game released only a few years ago, and from what I 
 experienced through the demo version, the gameplay was not what I would consider enjoyable.
  
  There are so many other better first-person shooters out there, Delta Force: Team Sabre is 
 really not worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  Movie is just fantastic with its special effects and environment.... Team Sabre is the british 
 expansion pack for Delta Force: Black Hwak Down game, and it is in the same range with original 
 game. I felt a bit diffrence in difficulty, this version is difficult than first one, but it makes 
 game more playable. 
  
  If you played first part dont miss this one, actually you won't coz they are always together when 
 you will get one you will get other one as a exp. pack.
  So you will enjoy full power of Somali environment and deadliest zone of earth in that time.
 
  
  Grapic in the game not saying too much but games scenario makes it secondary priority for us sound 
 is in adequate level. 
  
  Enemies, bl**dy hell so much them that if you will have a time to spit you drink for a second, 
 well by that time you will die. hahaha!!
  
  Enjoy high tence of warfare in heart of Africa!! 
  
  P. S. Whatch for RPG's man. They are all 
 Around!! lol
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: advracer
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  If you enjoyed BHD (Black Hawk Down) and for that matter - even if you didn't, you owe it to yourself 
 to find a way to play this game. If you like to blow things up and shoot everything in site, you 
 are in for a treat. 
  
  For me, it was a bit much. Some of the explosions were so exagerated that they took me off guard. 
 It would take c4 to produce some of the explosions my m16 sparked.
  
  The visuals are stunning and the sound lives up to is predicessor. 
  
  The save game functionality 
 is really frustrating though. In much like a console, you are given only a few slots to save your 
 progress. So it is a gamble each time you save your game. 
  
  Some reviewers said the game was too difficult. I think that is b/c a lot of gamers are of the 
 run and gun style not taking the time to asess and supress. I found the gameplay just right. I 
 was way more frustrated with newer titles like Gun with difficulty.
  
  It is cheap and fun. It looks and sounds great. No reason to dust it off and give it a spin. I 
 have already ran through it two or three times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suprman2184
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 31, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  the multiplayer has better weapons that you can use, like the new sniper rifle it is about 20 times 
 better than any other rifle. there are also better submachine guns that are nice to use. in single 
 player mode it still kinda seems you a one man army, with trigger happy reenforcements. you have 
 to give them a command not to shot to stay hidden. its is kinda hard when you have a mission and 
 you are doin most of the work. the enemy in the single player has what seems to me better aim, 
 they actually hit you with their ammo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crowdevil
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force: Black Hawk Down: Team Sabre
  
  A truly addictive online game. You have many accessories you can download to make your online gaming 
 more pleasurable. You have only four different characters you can pick from, which is one downfall. 
 Also Novalogic has many glitches that are an issue, even after the update. There are many different 
 kind of games you can play, Team Death Match, King of the Hill, Attack and Defend, Death Match, 
 Co-Op. You have many weapons to choose from, any ware from snipers to medics. The single player 
 games are enjoyable. BHDTS has very realistic sound. I strongly recommend this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  Well let's break it down like I do in all my games. So here we go:
  
  Gameplay: Much the same as in the original Black hawk down. Just you get jungle setting, which 
 is nice if yo uhave gotten tired of the desert scenes over and over again. Not much else is different. 
 the bad guys have different clothes but they still move in a predictable way, and rarely take cover 
 behind anything, they will however duck on occasion.
  
  Graphics: again not much different from the original, just new textures thrown on the same engine.
 
  
  Sound: Still crisp and realistic weapon sounds.
  
  Value: Not much in the way of value, as I said in the gameplay section it is much different from 
 the original, just a different setting.
  
  Tilt: I am not going to tilt this much, because after playing through the original, i found this 
 one to be quite boring, In this add-on you merely just hide behind a tree rather than a brick desert 
 textured wall. And because this add-on didn't bring much to the table, i think the tilt is going 
 to hurt more, than it does good.
  
  This was an EHHHHHHHHH add-on, didn't really bring much new to the mix. Get it only if you plan 
 on playing online. The solo missions as I have said over and over, are nothing but the original 
 missions, with a new texture.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mongoose689
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  If you want to know about the single player portion of this game go to another review. I have no 
 clue really, played the campaign for 5 minutes then went to online play, and i never left! The 
 online play is incredible because you can be whatever class you want, medic, sniper, support, etc. 
 and use any of the weapons you want, as long as they fit your class type. You can play the maps 
 already made for DFBHDTS, or play in a room in progress on a custom map (they are usually better) . 
 You have every type of person in one room at once and it adds for awesome gameplay. You have the 
 suicide medics who run at you with knives drawn ready to slice you open or revive their friends, 
 the watchful snipers who guard every corner, the trigger happy machine-gunners blowing up everything, 
 and the casual riflemen who use the basic Run-N-Gun tactics. This is the ultimate Delta Force game, 
 really a couple million steps ahead of its predecessors, and now Novalogic is screwed because of 
 it. How are they going to make this game any better? It puts them in a real pickle but hey, i've 
 got the game and im loving it so its not my problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:44 am PT
Review:  DFBHDTS is the great exspansion too a already good game.
  
  The good: Its fun, the sound is real, fun too fight in the woods, cool new characthers, The Ai 
 is getting better, Nice enviroments, gives you 20-40 hours of gameplay, youll get much for the 
 money. Youll get 3 more weapons. Great multi.
  
  The bad: The weapon sounds are still not good. The gameplay is worse, Still bad but better ai, 
 Graphics on the faces of people are still looking bad, your teamates are not doing a thing, if 
 too many of them die your mission is over so you need too babysit the almost. and lets not forget 
 its too hard. And has some notable mistakes. 
  
  Even if there are plenty of mistakes i think you still should buy this game. Its so fun at times, 
 but this game is not for you if your a guy that gets angry too easy.!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srickert12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 23, 2005 10:26 pm PT
Review:  To start out I feel that the original game got a bad wrap. This expansion was just as good as the 
 original with a lot more action and a better AI for the other members in your Ranger Chaulk. I 
 feel this game added a lot to the original. I liked the original because the story was so realistic. 
 This added new missions in two different campaigns of action. You start in Columbia with the mission 
 of taking down an evil drug lord. The second campaign puts you in Iran with the job of taking back 
 oil refineries. This expansion gives you 11 new single player missions and adds 30 new multiplayer 
 maps. It also includes different vehicles and weapons. This game is a lot harder then the original. 
 Just like the original I love the way you infiltrate. You either start in a Blackhawk, Rigid Hull 
 Inflatable Boat (RHIB) , Little Bird, or a CH-53 Pave low. While onboard these vehicles you can 
 mount either a Mini-Gun or a .50 Caliber Machine Gun to clear you landing zone or soften up a target. 
 I found this game to be extremely satisfying when I completed it finally. The original game also 
 included all the vehicles except for the Pave low and RHIB. I forgot to mention that you also get 
 to man the .50 cal in a mission to protect your convoy. The original game gave you a brief feeling 
 for that in the first mission. I really feel everyone should reevaluate their opinions of these 
 games. They actually give you a feeling for what are military deals with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 10, 2005 4:10 am PT
Review:  Team Sabre offers some slight improvements and some good multiplayer maps but nothing to impressive. 
 It offers a few new weapons and several new campaigns. I personally feel this is a typical expansion 
 pack that offers nothing really new... but it isn't terrible like some of the other disasterous 
 expansions.
  
  Team Sabre offers some new weapons that really help, they add more sniper rifles and some new heavy 
 machine guns. The addition of these weapons improves the multiplayer. Now with the newly added 
 semi-automatic sniper rifle you can hit more targets, quicker. 
  
  All in all there isn't much to say about Team Sabre, refer to my Black Hawk Down review for more 
 information. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2004 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Great game, But this expansion is very hard. It fixes most of the errors in the first delta force 
 black hawk down, and does a great job with the game. The single player is about the same, the missions 
 aren't entirely deep but it is good. The graphics are ok, the reflextions are nice, the water looks 
 good, and this is the one game that i realized that they actually put a reflection of whats behind 
 you in the sniper scope. Overall it's a decent game, the multiplayer is fun and fast. Sounds are 
 nicely done and the weapons sound like the well real guns do. Level design is great and the maps 
 are forever going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2004 9:10 pm PT
Review:  BHD Team Sabre adds in lush Columbian jungle and very well done Iranian locations to the proven 
 BHD foumula. The graphics are even better than in BHD, and Ritual Entertainment has done a very 
 nice job with the music and game sounds. The AI seems to be little stronger and more reactive than 
 before, and there's no lack of it in the SP missions. Combine that with the limited saves, and 
 the missions can be challenging. The sounds for the new G36 assault rifle and PSG 1 Sniper Rifle 
 rock. The lush vegetation in the MP jungle maps really brings on the in your face mayhem! One thing 
 that struck me was how well the Comanche 4/BHD/TS 3D engine looks while maintaining very smooth 
 frame rates in both SP & MP; compared to BF1942/Desert Combat. I don't know code, but I'd have 
 to say TS's is much more efficiently written. Excellent expansion pack, and a real bargain at $20.00. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
