-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Delta Force: Black Hawk Down
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/deltaforceblackhawkdown/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 25, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 7.6, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 1,948 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NovaLogic
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Mar 23, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Black Hawk Down is a deeply flawed shooter that has a moment of disappointment or frustration for 
 every moment of fun. 

  Novalogic's Delta Force was originally one of the foremost tactical shooter series in computer 
 gaming. However, if last year's Task Force Dagger is any indication, the series is in decline. 
 The newest game in the series, Delta Force: Black Hawk Down, focuses on the UN intervention in 
 Somalia in the 1990s, as portrayed in the popular novel and motion picture  Black Hawk Down . The 
 new Delta Force game makes some improvements to the series, but it's difficult to take seriously, 
 especially considering some of the game's action sequences, which resemble old arcade games more 
 than they do actual military operations.           One of Black Hawk Down's massive environments. 
    

  Black Hawk Down is loosely inspired by missions undertaken by elements of Delta Force, the US 75th 
 Ranger Regiment, the 10th Mountain Division, and the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment. 
 The game is also filled with real-world vehicles and weapons, but don't let that fool you. Black 
 Hawk Down is mostly a straightforward, simplistic action game with some real-world trappings.  

  The game's first single-player mission provides a good idea of what you can expect from Black Hawk 
 Down. It lifts ideas from the movie and throws them together in an unrealistic and clumsy fashion. 
 The mission itself resembles a rail shooter, an arcade-style shooting game in which you're forced 
 to move along a predetermined path while shooting any enemies in your way. For whatever reason, 
 developers insisted on using this idea over and over. In the first mission, you take part in a 
 rescue operation for a UN convoy that's come under attack in the countryside. You operate a .50-caliber 
 machine gun on one of a group of humvees that blithely drive right into hordes of enemy foot soldiers 
 and vehicles approaching from all sides instead of slowing to properly engage the enemy, stopping, 
 or taking an alternate route. You have no control over the foolish humvee drivers, but instead 
 simply have to blast each new target that appears.   

  Once you've finished this shooting-gallery segment -- and most of the game seems like a glorified 
 shooting gallery, since Somali gunmen will often stand in neat little rows --you run on foot to 
 a small enemy camp to snipe more bad guys. Then, it's a return to more rail shooter action, as 
 you use a minigun mounted on a Black Hawk helicopter to slaughter more unthinking enemies. All 
 this in the span of 5 or 10 minutes.           You'll wish that Black Hawk Down's gameplay were 
 as dramatic as its visuals sometimes are.    

  Anyone looking for a realistic military simulation will be very disappointed with Black Hawk Down. 
 But if you're looking for a simple, old-fashioned shooter, you may enjoy parts of it, assuming 
 you can put up with some major problems. The single-player mission goals often seem contrived or 
 repetitive, and the campaign as a whole seems disjointed and amateurish. It's poorly balanced too -- most 
 missions are far too easy, but a few require endless and endlessly frustrating retries. The missions 
 are also unoriginal. Understandably, they lift ideas from the Black Hawk Down book and film, but 
 without doing them any justice. One mission even attempts, however poorly, to re-create the Omaha 
 Beach landing sequence from Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, of all things.   

  As in previous Delta Force games, Black Hawk Down's AI is extremely poor. The supposedly "elite" 
 Delta Force and Ranger troops shoot each other, push you into the line of fire, and repeatedly 
 miss targets literally right in front of them. Their aim is so atrocious that they can actually 
 walk right past an enemy in a narrow tunnel and not hit their target. The Somali fighters are just 
 as bad. At point-blank range, these militia soldiers often turn away from you and shoot a nearby 
 wall instead. So, it's basically up to you to play Rambo, running around and shooting all the sitting 
 ducks. In fact, the game even keeps score for you -- you can expect to kill more than 1,500 Somalis 
 during the campaign.     

  Still, Black Hawk Down at least tries to immerse you in the action and actually does a half-decent 
 job of making you feel like you're in the middle of a war zone. Amid the mass starvation and clan 
 fighting, you'll need to make your way through poverty-stricken towns filled with innocent civilians 
 and gun-toting thugs alike. Some agitated civilians even hurl rocks and shout at you to leave them 
 alone. The missions at least have some superficial variety, since you'll have to complete objectives 
 like securing weapons caches, assaulting strongholds in towns, destroying bridges, and taking part 
 in the climactic fighting of the Battle of Mogadishu -- but once you actually play through them, 
 you'll find that the missions are either too easy or too frustrating.   

          Some good lighting and smoke effects do a little to make up for the lack of exciting gameplay. 
    As it is, the solo campaign is hard to take seriously, given all its problems. Black Hawk Down 
 at least offers fairly extensive multiplayer options. Though there are no cooperative modes, the 
 game does include deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, king of the hill, and other competitive 
 modes. These don't break any new ground, but the game's unusual setting and large maps make them 
 more interesting than they'd otherwise be. Then again, the large maps can encourage tedious sniper 
 duels, and they also make it incredibly easy to sit at an enemy respawn point and repeatedly kill 
 opponents off before they can react. The multiplayer maps do let you control machine gun emplacements 
 and vehicle turrets, but you can't actually drive or pilot the vehicles yourself. Rather, you hop 
 aboard them as they automatically make their way along predetermined paths. In fact, these vehicles 
 may remind you of a slow-paced amusement park ride, just with automatic weapons.   

  However, Black Hawk Down does look much better than any previous Delta Force game. Though it's 
 no Unreal Tournament 2003, and it has some bizarre polygon clipping problems, Black Hawk Down does 
 have very good outdoor lighting and good environments. Somali towns look believably run down, since 
 they're full of rusted tin roofs, shattered windows, and other signs of damage and dilapidation. 
 Bodies of water look impressive, reflecting the sun and frothing under helicopter prop wash. At 
 times, Black Hawk Down's presentation actually excels, especially depicting chaotic combat in huge 
 outdoor areas. Bullets kick up sand and tear leaves off palm trees, and vehicles erupt in brilliant 
 explosions. Black Hawk helicopters come roaring in low, throwing up a cloud of dust and causing 
 the trees to sway, while their minigun bullets spark off metal roofs. Also, the game's vehicles 
 and weapons look decent enough, though the game's character models and animations could have used 
 a lot more work. The Somalis look like armed circus performers, as they die a variety of comically 
 acrobatic deaths.           The game's cities look convincingly large and run down.    

  The game's audio isn't quite as good as its visuals. Black Hawk Down has varied music that helps 
 add a little intensity to the action, but some of the guns sound too similar or too bland. Much 
 of the game's spoken dialogue is presented with almost cartoonlike exaggeration, and a lot of the 
 dialogue is downright cheesy and may remind you of a black-and-white John Wayne war film.   

  Genuinely intense action is hard to come by in Black Hawk Down, and the game suffers from too 
 many major gameplay faults, but unlike the last Delta Force game, this one begins to move the series 
 in the right direction. While it often fails, it at least tries to immerse you in the gameworld, 
 and it features some attractive visuals and a few particularly dramatic scenes. Still, Black Hawk 
 Down is a deeply flawed shooter that has a moment of disappointment or frustration for every moment 
 of fun.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (91 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 6
  Gameplay: 4
  Multiplayer: 8
  Storyline: 4
  Impression: 4
  
  Score: 5.5 (5.6 real)
  
  Delta Force: Black Hawk Down is the fifth installment in the Delta 
 Force Series. A series that started out with a reputation of substance over style, but by the time 
 this game arrived the tables had turned completely. Gone are the horrible graphics, which have 
 been replaced with a decent engine that provides a realistic and believable battlefield. However, 
 also gone is any form of tactical combat, as Black Hawk Down is almost arcade-like in its delivery. 
 There are tactical options, but even at default level they are almost an afterthought as you can 
 blast your way through sixteen (mostly straightforward) missions. And at barely six hours in length, 
 Black Hawk Down lacks in challenge, balance and genuine gameplay (most in part to poor AI) to recommend 
 above a wealth of similar games on the market.
  
  Black Hawk Down is based on the U. S Army missions in Somalia in 1993. You play as a member of numerous 
 divisions, with allies (usually) by your side. There are a variety of missions, involving escorting 
 convoys, destroy enemy weapons and bases, rescuing prisoners, capturing criminals and the obligatory 
 'Black Hawk Down' scenario. Presented in the first person scenario, whilst on occasions there will 
 be the need to man a turret on a moving vehicle, most of the work is done of foot as you engage 
 a never ending supply of enemies as you go from checkpoint to checkpoint. There are squad orders 
 available, there a variety of weapons available and there is a decent playing environment. However, 
 don't expect a realistic military scenario or the need to use any tactical options whatsoever.
 
  
  To the get good things out of the way first, the graphics are quite impressive and this is easily 
 the best visual presentation of the Delta Force series. Based on a new engine, the environment 
 is large and quite well defined, providing the potential some challenging and engaging combat. 
 Whether moving through open land or in the urban environment, the presentation is quite realistic. 
 The squad mates are well defined and the enemies look decent enough. Vehicles, turrets and structures 
 also look the part and the arsenal of weapon is well defined. Explosions are 'over-the-top' but 
 impressive nonetheless, and other effects (water, dust, sun) are used quite effectively. The game 
 moves along well also. At no stage did I experience any slow down in framing, even when there was 
 plenty happening on screen. The sound effects are also reasonable. The missions are usually accompanied 
 by in equal parts atmospheric or intense, combat-driven music and when looked at as a whole, the 
 combat sounds engaging and realistic. However, individually all the weapons basically sound the 
 same, as do vehicles and explosions. Whilst the in-game dialogue is professionally executed, it 
 isn't quite in tune with the environment and the pace of the game. It's also inappropriate at times, 
 with stupid, cheesy comments. The opposition sounds realistic, sometimes yelling at you in their 
 native language, so it seems a bit out of place when the civilians say 'leave us alone'.
  
  The gameplay is where this game ultimately falls down. Where earlier Delta Force games provided 
 a more realistic, tactical approach to combat missions, Black Hawk Down goes for the mindless action 
 approach. And for most of the sixteen missions, that is exactly what occurs. You find yourself 
 moving from checkpoint to checkpoint, and whilst there will be plenty of enemies, they won't be 
 that much resistance. The enemies tend to miss at point blank range (as do you allies, but I will 
 get to that) , making them easy prey. It's is almost shooting gallery stuff at times, and you can 
 tap enemies on the shoulder, being how close you can get without them actually noticing you or 
 engaging you. On most of the missions, there is next to no challenge at the default level. The 
 game also does allow a set number of saves which makes it easier again, and then there are health 
 packs lying around as well which makes it even less of a challenge. Having said, that the games 
 throws its balance out the window by making two missions in particular infuriatingly hard. The 
 missions themselves are structured, with a set amount of objectives that need to be completed in 
 sequence, so you will never get lost. It is always clear what you have to do. It's just you'd expect 
 a bit more opposition form multiple enemies and a bit more care in planning you missions. No joke, 
 at times you could mistake this for Serious Sam  a good game, but it's not meant to be like that. 
 And whilst the missions themselves are structured, there is no real structure overall campaign. 
 Whilst it does climax with a multiple-mission 'Black Hawk Down' story, before that it almost feels 
 like a bunch of maps glued together with no apparent progression or direction.
  
  The AI of the both the enemies and your allies is appalling. Only the element of surprise or carelessness 
 on your part will led to your demise on most missions, as your enemies stand out in the open and 
 fire (inaccurately) on you, making it almost like a shooting gallery. RPG's always miss the first 
 time, making it easy to get them before the fire the second round, if they actually fire it at 
 all. Enemies will face and fire into walls, run straight past you and at times almost do a dance 
 of sorts as they don't know what they are supposed to be doing, or where they are supposed to be 
 going. To make it worse, your allies AI is the same. You'll lose track of them several times, and 
 find them facing the corner of a tin shed or similar. They push you into the line of fire, engage 
 the enemy from about 5 feet and miss with 20 rounds and are actually a nuisance to the missions. 
 There are some interesting missions and there is an element of 'WOW' to some of the set pieces 
 and gameplay, but ultimately the gameplay flaws really let the game down. When you have completed 
 the final mission, an act of payback for the event of 1993  as you wipe out several targets that 
 run at you like it's a football game, it is clear the game doesn't offer enough genuinely satisfying 
 gameplay and gets too much wrong for it's own good.
  
  Black Hawk Down takes no more than six hours to complete the 16 mission single player mission at 
 default level. There is an 'operator' level that can also be attempted and a multiplayer component, 
 but there is not much replayability from a single-player perspective. Team Sabre, the expansion 
 pack to Black Hawk Down, whilst having some of the same issues, is actually a better gaming experience 
 - so that's where you would go if you are looking for more single player action. But being an 'add-on' 
 you'll need to have this game first.
  
  Overall Delta Force: Black Hawk Down is disappointing on a number of levels, which is a pity.
 
  
  The Good:
  -quite cool for like about an hour of playing it
  -graphics
  
  The Bad:
  -buggy
  -checkpoints
  -bad AI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smaradax
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  The single player is disappointing. There is not enough of it and it just isn't that good. Levels 
 are fun to play, but they are usually too short. Enemies die with one shot. There isn't really 
 anything that gives it replay value. No unlockables or anything, except for missions.
  
  Multiplayer takes a while to get used to and it is nothing like Unreal Tournament or Counter Strike. 
 Instead, the gameplay is slowed down a bit. It requires a bit more thought than just rushing straight 
 into battle, or jsut being cautious. There is a good Aussie server. There are servers with good 
 player statistics. There are, unfortunately some glitches that players can use to their advantage, 
 but players who get caught will get banned from most servers. It takes a while to get used to, 
 but I found it fun. I think that the multiplayer is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: szytar1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is so much better. even though there both shooting games call of duty has a reason 
 for fighting and the objectives vary every time. In Black Hawk its always get in, kill and get 
 out. The weapons are good and some of the missions are accualy fun. i like shooting games and this 
 is defenatly not the best one. If you want a good shooting game try call of duty, medal of honor 
 and battlefield. if you like tactical shooting try splinter cell, ghost recon or rainbow 6. those 
 games are awsome. this game is fun at the firs time but it gets worse as you keep playing it over 
 and over again. i need more words in this article so i'm writing this. i need more words in this 
 article so i'm writing this. i need more words in this article so i'm writing this. i need more words 
 in this article so i'm writing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flicker66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Coming to the Delta Force series from ubershooters like the Half-Life and Call of Duty series, 
 I wasn't sure what to expect in terms of immersion, challenge etc. I needn't have worried as it's 
 a decent game.
  
  There's a good deal to keep you on your toes and while it's not creepy like F. E. A. R Perseus Mandate 
 is (I was playing this alternately with FPM) , the fact
  that you can only save a limited amount of times per mission makes it damned hard in places! None 
 of the established cheats work for it either if you upgrade to v.1.5 so you'll need to be at your 
 very best to get through some long and challenging missions. The attention to detail is really 
 good, especially the depth of field. Some of the maps are huge but if it thinks you're taking the 
 long and evasive route, it'll tell you that "desertion is not tolerated" and end the mission! 
 
  
  I paid 5 for it in my local Game and it was well worth the outlay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  Delta Force Black Hawk down is a game which the idea take on a real 
  story about Elite team Delta force who working his job in somalia. 
  Delta Force Black Hawk Down 
 has been a phenomenal movie and a the game 
  too. In america the film and game is embargo by local government. 
  but that just issue.
  
 
  =game play=
  
  you fall down into middle of somalia city which many terrorist on 
  
  there,
  with a many mission. you can choose a few weapon that you can carry 
  
  out
  like 
 m 16, CAR 15, M249 saw, or M21, and many others. This is very 
  
  difficult game
  you can die in 3 shooting. life indicator is showed at left bottom. 
  The green color show u 
 all healthy, if u shooted teh indicator can 
  
  change into yellow, 
  or red and u must find medic which hiden in a few place. it's very hard 
  
  game with 
  a 
 lot of bug and terrible sound. u can shoot ur friends if u can shoot 
  
  the enemy very well
  and is a one of the game who have many enemies.
  
  =Graphics=
  
 
  not bad and very well than other series. but with a lot of bug in there 
  
  and on there.
  environment detail very bareness, with ugly player performance.
  u must have 
 graphics card with minimal direct x 8.1 installed.
  512 mb ram and processors 1,6 ghz is enough to run this game faster.
  
  =All performance=
 
  
  better than the older series, but have very hard difficulty.
  yah.. not bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRaider1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  When Playing Black Hawk Down, I discovered the value of working in a team, with Co-Operation availible. 
 And thats what Black Hawk Down really is, a game which Forces you and Puts you in the Postion of 
 working in a team. There is nothing I can really say about the game, even though I like it. The 
 Multiplayer is just a bit cheesy but still fun. If you dont own a Xbox 360 than this game for the 
 PS2 is right next to SOCOM. Whats not sogreat is the limited amount of team commands availible. 
 If you plan on playing SOCOM, consider sharpshooting practice, becasue youll need it. Another disadvantage 
 to SOCOM is that there is no 3rd Person view. So there it is, all I had to say. Black Hawk down 
 also fails to stress the elements of Surprise and stealth, which other games portray so nicely. 
 Its nice to remember the Scenes of Black Hawk Down the Movie, and the book. I also like the feedback 
 from the AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satorn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  place : Somalia
  year: 1996
  operation code: irine
  target : head leader m. farah aedied and local militias
  
 
  
  this game is for the action and army game lovers , with good experience in weapons and tactics 
 .
  
  inside the war zone : 
  you will be leading a delta team from 4 to 5 teammates that takes orders from you as you continue 
 your way to the goal of the missions , you need to keep them alive and don't shoot civilians ! 
 
  
  the good : 
  1. the visuals and the textures are good enough , good selected army 
  2. weapons and interesting army weapons .
  3. the ability to make your own map .
  
  the bad 
 : 
  1. you can't change your weapon or take any one from the dead enemy .
  2. killing civilians will make you restart the mission from the start .
  3. few game saving times 
 ( 3 or 5 ) times only then you continue without saving .
  4. when leaving the mission zone you will fail , so keep walking on the map line and don't miss 
 the way points.
  
  best regards
  satorn
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ginneh
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Black Hawk Down isn't a twitch shooter and neither is there enough accuracy/realism to be classed 
 even as a softcore tactical shooter like Ghost Recon et al.
  So it occupies a middle ground in between the two which I found reasonably interesting - combat 
 requires intelligent target selection and use of cover, but you still mow down heaps of enemies 
 (which may be in keeping with it's portrayal of actual events) . 
  The graphics have dated somewhat and the look of some objects (eg. palm trees) are a bit jarring, 
 but overall there is a satisfyingly gritty look to the environments. The environments are big enough 
 to allow multiple paths to objectives when the game permits.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NateoPotato94
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force: Black Hawk Down is one of the most interesting games you could have. An ok singleplayer 
 campaign, but lacks some potental while the multiplayer kicks it's own butt. The graphics are fairly 
 well and could use a touch up but still fine for it's time . Basically it gives you a barrage of 
 weopons to choose from for different real missions that took place in real life, but are a little 
 different then the real missions. As you go on the missions you perform them in night and day, 
 against foriegn enemies. Muliplayer: KICK BUTT style team, CTF, etc. The best thing about the multiplayer 
 is the Lan and onine connectivity... awsome i know... try it sometime!
  
  System Requirements:
  
  Video Card: Direct 3D video card with 32MB, compatible with Nvidia 
 TNT2, GeForce series, ATI Radeon series.
  
  Operating System: Windows 98, ME, 2000, XP (Not sure if VIsta will read it)
  
  CPU: Pentium 
 III 733 MHz equivalent, Pentium IV Recomended.
  
  Hard Drive Space: 750MB available
  
  System Memory: 256MB or greater
  
  CD-ROM Speed: 4x CD-ROM drive
  
  DirectX: DirectX 8.1 
 or greater
  
  Sound Cards: WIndows Compatable
  
  Thanks for reading NateoPotato94's review of Delta Force: Black Hawk Down! Hope it helped any problems! 
 And have fun gaming! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-Man2006
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force: Black Hawk Down is a very disappointing shooter from NovaLogic. It does use some historical 
 accuracy, but no doubt this was disappointing. You basically play a solder in 1993 when Somalia 
 was attacked by the rebels, you get the idea that you have to kill enemies with modern day weapons 
 (and you'll also get to shoot from vehicles along the way) . Although the idea sounds neat, we can 
 be honest and say that its single-player is disappointing. Although the graphics were decent in 
 those days, but still, there are better choices than this in my opinion.
  
  However, to prevent this from getting a 4.5 rating, there's MP. If anything, the game was possibly 
 made for its MP values. Trust me, there are some moments in the MP that makes you forget the disasters 
 of SP. This is a fair game, but I think it could have been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Flying in a helicopter, manning a Vulcan gun with unlimited ammo, and shooting down untrained Somali 
 militia riding around in pickup trucks is the stuff of great gaming. In fact, Black Hawk Down is 
 full of thrills, spills, and massive explosions  I expected a title card at the start that said 
 A Jerry Bruckheimer Game.
  Nevertheless, the single-player campaigns end up being more exhausting than exhilarating, which 
 is why its a good thing that the multiplayer modes are so good.
  
  Perhaps the single-player exhaustion has something to do with the 16 missions ramping up exponentially 
 in difficulty as you reach the end of the game. Or maybe it has something to do with your AI-controlled 
 teammates who  while supposedly highly trained elite warriors  never completely grasp the concept 
 of evasion or aim. I watched several times while one of my men simply stood motionless as a combatant 
 at close range casually gunned him down in short bursts. When my men did engage in combat, I couldnt 
 fathom why it took them an entire clip of ammo to take down an enemy standing right next to them. 
 Your tax dollars at work!
  
  BHD has an immersive visual appeal and the trappings of a Rainbow Sixstyle sim, but make no mistake 
  this is a pure action game. It lacks such fine details as, oh, say, believable AI, consistent 
 squad tactics, or even location-based damage. (You can kill a man by firing a couple shots at his 
 foot, for example.) The arcade-like feel extends to boxes of ammo and health on each map.
  
  Balancing the dreadful squadmate AI are equally ludicrous enemy responses that seem limited 
 to standing around, sprinting to and fro, and spontaneous drop-and-rolls. What makes the huge levels 
 interesting are the sheer numbers of people running around, not any sort of tactical cunning. You 
 face the constant tension of needing eyes in the back of your head because the enemy is everywhere. 
 Guys lurk in the windows, in the alleys, behind a pillar  sometimes armed with those nasty little 
 RPGs that can end your mission in a loud salvo.
  
  Yes, your war buddies will end your mission if enough of them die, so you cant simply kill them 
 off at the beginning to avoid complications, like you could in earlier Delta Force games. Its 
 also a soft limit  sometimes it takes only one death, sometimes the whole squad has to be wiped 
 out. In any case, your teammates are an albatross around your neck.
  
  At the same time, however, the weapons are dynamite, from the gleam of the barrel to the visceral 
 firing effects. Radio chatter is constant: You know when one of your squaddies is getting shot 
 at or has died, and the subtle audio cues add immersive flavor to the chaotic and violent environment.
 
  
  Those details dont make up for the stupid AI, however. Since adversaries exhibit such a basic 
 and inflexible pool of actions and reactions, I was able to breeze through all 16 missions in about 
 12 hours.
  
  Online NovaWorld encounters do make up for the single-player campaign. LAN play isnt all that 
 hot because the levels are vast and require a lot of bodies to fill them out: unless you have at 
 least a dozen people hooked up for play, its going to be a ghost town. The NovaLogic servers are 
 stable and fast, although the connection interface could use some streamlining (failed connection 
 attempts dump you all the way out to the main menu, for instance) . But the fighting is thrilling 
 once the balloon goes up.
  
  The sniper plays a significant role both due to map size and because its much easier to take someone 
 down with only a few shots. Bullet physics are modeled to the point where you have to lead your 
 moving targets, rather than make instant contact. Explosives have a much larger and more accurate 
 damage radius than in most other games: this isnt a game where you can fire three rockets point-blank 
 at a bad guy and not kill him.
  
  Multiplayer options include deathmatch, team deathmatch, team King of the Hill, capture the flag, 
 and two new modes that no ones playing online at press time, Search and Destroy and Attack and 
 Defend. You can choose from four different player types, &agrave; la Team Fortress: medic, gunner, 
 close-quarters combat (basically the standard soldier) , and sniper (my personal favorite) . Each 
 class has varying inventory space to
  fill and a different loadout to choose.
  
  The NovaWorld ranking system uses actual military ranks to promote you up the ladder. Each game 
 type is explained extensively while the map loads, so you shouldnt feel lost once it comes time 
 to spawn.
  
  Multiplay also includes vehicles and gun nests. Youll get to man a minigun in a helicopter and 
 a Humvee, but there is currently no option to control the vehicles  they simply move about the 
 map by themselves, on a pre-planned route, and you have to jump in. Still, the heavy weapons make 
 for some hellacious multiplayer battles amid the accurately depicted blighted desert apocalypse 
 of Somalia.
  
  Black Hawk Down has environmental richness to spare, and lots of flash and thump. But dont buy 
 it hoping for a down-to-the-sweat-bead re-creation of the movie  buy it for its multiplayer carnage. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyed
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 8, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Before i start this review i must say i am not a big fanh of PC games. the only ones i have really 
 got stuck into are the sports management games like championship manager. but when i saw this going 
 for cheap i thought i'd get with my friend and trying out online multiplayer gaming. i must say 
 i'm glad i did.
  
  I also must state that i have never actually tried to get stuck in with the story mode. the missions 
 are pretty boring in the story mode and i spend all my time playing online. If your a beginner 
 with PC shooters like i was when i bought this, then you will find the controls a bit hard to master. 
 luckily though you can change the defaukt settings for the controls to make it more your style.
 
  
  the graphics are good and hold up nicely and the games characters look alright.
  
  guns sound realistic and the overall score holds up well.
  
  overall if your a fan of multiplayer 
 shooters then this game is definetly for you. if your looking for a great story campaign, then 
 avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppelin1977
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic, based on the film of the same name it's single player is very entertaining 
 and will keep you busy for along time, you even get to play missions that were in the film.
  Has alot of weapons to fit every type of player, from the infantryman to the sniper to the heavy 
 weapons. The single player works really well and will keep you hooked for hours.
  The Graphics are brillient for the time this game was realesed but probably do look a little dated 
 by now.
  The Multiplayer is really where this game comes into it's own, it's fun, theres plenty of maps 
 and weapons and technicals.
  This game is seriously underappreciated and I strongly suggest purchasing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpectralDoubt
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. I don't understand why gamespot thought so little of it. If I could put 
 some sense into their minds. This game was an amazing shooter. It had good graphics for its age. 
 Maybe a terrible single player but, mutliplayer changed everything. Any true Delta Force player 
 can remember the fun of playing 'Delta Force 2' online. This game deserves much more credit. The 
 gameplay was a bit off... But this game doesn't deserve such a weak score. The sounds were good. 
 One thing that really pissed me off were tracers. The game made it look like Star Wars with the 
 tracers. It could have been done more skillfully.
  
  Maybe I am just a true delta player but, this game was something that kept me busy. I still play 
 it. I have beaten Single player without and with cheats many times. It isn't a terrible game. I 
 believe it is just misunderstood.
  
  ~~~~Spectral Doubt~~~~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 11, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Overall it remarkably catches the essence of the Black Hawk Down movie, complete with intense pacing 
 and storming soundtracks. A lot of opportunities to experience tactical shootouts from humvees 
 and black hawks true to the movie scenarios.
  
  But again, why is it not fun? Even those diehard fans to the movie may find this game a nuisance 
 to play given the brutal difficulty. For one, it's quite ridiculous that all the enemies are one 
 shot one kill, which makes sniping at a sniper on the rooftop with a handgun fairly easy to achieve 
 in this game, but again, the enemies' accuracy are notorious as well with their AK-47s, where you 
 always encounter normal street patrols fragging you the moment you turn a corner.
  
  Also, the missions tend to repeat itself after the first few ones, where it's either sabotaging 
 via planting bombs or protecting convoys. This numbs whatever excitement that's left in a player 
 eventually, which translates to bad taste. However, this is the case for the single-player campaign 
 only, the multiplayer's a hit from what I've heard, but I'm too busy playing other games to be 
 bothered with that already.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bill900
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- The singleplayer campaign sucked, for starters you could stand next to a doorway and 
 shoot a guy in his gun, then his buddy would stand there doing nothing as he fell to the ground, 
 dead. Furthermore this guy would then stand there as you reposition ever so slightly and repeat 
 the trick on him.
  
  Graphics- Pretty good, nothin to complain about really.
  
  Sound- Good, the sound effects are decent, and the music is nice.
  
  Don't let the terrible 
 singleplayer deter you, the multiplayer on this game is incredible. There are still a multitude 
 of servers for both this game and its expansion. Furthermore the support for custom maps is great. 
 The custom maps for this game can be amazingly fun. I've played some maps where there are huge 
 structures in the sky made out of shipping containers, and that is just awesome. So if you're looking 
 for a good singleplayer game go somewhere else, but if your into multiplayer go ahead buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Ah, Black Hawk Down, this is in my opinion one of the greatest movies ever made. It was intense 
 and action packed and know it is in a video game, and although quite late to pick it up, I still 
 did. First off, I love the Delta Force series, and this is the first one to really have a story. 
 I like that it had a story though, because those who watched the movie, will know the story wuite 
 well. I know what you are thinking though how can they make the movie into a game, to make it long 
 enough to be worth it? Well simple, they put in levels that happen before the actaul Irene mission. 
 There are ten missions that are not in the movie, five that are, and one that takes place three 
 years later. The story in the five levels based on the movie and book are quite close to game's 
 and the difficulty soras. This game is quite hard towards the end, and you really almost get a 
 I Was There type feeling when you finish the game. It is very rare that a game makes you feel like 
 you actually accomplished something when you beat it, but this game sure does. There is multi-player 
 but I couldnt get it to work, but I still had a blast with the single player campaign. The graphics 
 are ok, but since it is two years old, you have to cut it some slack. The voice-overs are there, 
 but they are nothing great, but they do not suck though. This is one of the great military shooters 
 that has come out over the past years, and is becoming my favorite genre. I look forward to playing 
 the xbox version as well for the multi-player, but the PC version is still very worthy of your 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TedBob
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  I don't understand why some people are rating this game so low. Gamespot says 5.6 To me this is 
 one of the best war shooters there is. The best of the Delta Force series too. I like Black Hawk 
 Down better than Call of Duty. I origionaly bought the game when it first came out, loved it right 
 away. After a year or so it got pushed aside for other FPS games I bought. Then it was given to 
 my son when he moved out a little over a year ago. 3 months ago I started jonesing for the game. 
 I asked for it back and he said he lost it. So since I wanted to play the game so badly again, 
 I just went out and bought it again. It's worth paying for it twice in order to be able to play 
 it again. Granted this time the game was only $9.00 but still, I would have paid more just to be 
 able to play it once more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathersalan
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 16, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  The multiplayer is the only good thing about BHD you can have your own stats and a good number 
 of weapons to go from. Single player is a bit annoying but BHD is good.. It would be better if the 
 company supported it and release updates to help kill the cheats off a bit.. The multiplayer is 
 the only thing great about BHD overall, it looks good for a 3 year old DirectX 8 game, sounds not 
 the best in the world but it does it, gameply feels like that fast move around shooting sim, easy 
 to handle your AR while running and turning but only thing that kills the multiplayer is the chammers 
 and aimbots and that chams and aimbots are easy to get for BHD if you know how to look for them 
 or look for a cheat community for BHD. But if you play on the NovaWorld stats it will have a moderator 
 in each one every now and then to keep a look out and ban anyone who might be cheating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwardLau
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  After seeing the film for the first time, I remember craving for the Delta Force title. And I have 
 fond memories of playing their previous war games. First impressions: The first few missions were 
 very fun to play. They include defending convoys, raiding an enemy warehouse in a crowded city 
 and evading crocodiles during one mission! The graphics are good, and there are numerous cool ambience 
 effects, such as VERY nice water, people throwing stones at you, smoke and explosions look very 
 nice too. Some other cool stuff include a CSAR blackhawk helicopter landing when one of your allies 
 are incapacitated, and are dragged to safety by a medic.
  
  Sadly it seems Novalogic rushed or ran out of ideas on some missions, making some nearly impossible 
 to beat unless you retry a lot of times. But what truly shines is Novalogic's mission editor. This 
 allows you to make scripted events etc.... It might take some time to learn how to use it, and 
 if you can't be bothered...
  Download user-made missions! They are truly great. I downloaded one lengthly mission which showed 
 what this game was capable of. It was the whole Operation Irene in one mission, and was copied 
 straight from the film. Numerous scripts made it seem lifelike, including a soldier falling when 
 rapelling down. Multiplayer is also very fun. You get all that standard stuff, but you don't have 
 to be good. I was a medic the first time I played and healed and revived players to earn points. 
 In all, it has a decent single-player experience, and with the addition of user-made missions its 
 even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBIRD7280
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Granted, this game was my first online experience ever, but still, I feel it's deserving of a high 
 score.
  
  There are just tons of missions in this game, and you usually have a choice out of 3 different 
 missions to pick from at one time. A cool kind of sid enote is the fact that civilians throw rocks 
 at you ( even though they can't hurt you ) and they scream Go Away! and Leave Us Alone! 
  
  The online is truly awesome. It has all your basic multiplayer modes, captrue the flag, deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and a sort of captrue the base mode. This is one game that has no cheats available. 
 It's not laggy, and it's just plain fun.
  
  Some of my most fond memories are of playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSix6075
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  great game just so full of cheats now ... ... .. ... ... .... ..... .. .. ... .... .. . .. .. .... 
 ..... ... .. .... ..... ... ... .. .... ... ... like i said i played this game from 2003 -late 
 05 was super great fun decent graphics really helped make multiplayer pings good for everyone even 
 if you were using 56k ... played recently and its just so easy for people to get hacks now its 
 really nothing special anymore.... anyway its an easy way to get in a squad people are usually 
 cool rather then bad like in some games ... decent single player not to much story worth the cheap 
 price now if your looking for fun at a decent price ........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripcord23
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I got this game a year after it came out and i enjoyed every molment of the game although some 
 levels were hard it was great. In delta force blackhawk down you play the role as a US army special 
 forces soldier in Somalia 1992-1993. It starts small were you must provide secuerty for UN forces 
 then you are sent on raids witch lead up to the battel of mougedeshu. You can use severel wepions 
 as the game prcoceeds you are given or your teem is given better wepions. You can use the M-16 CAR-15 
 M-249 M-60 AT-4 and lots of other wepions. You also lead a squad of or fireteem of soldiers and 
 you can give cammands. If you have beaten single player that is just half of the game online is 
 the best part you play on maps based on levels and otehr maps exclusivce to single player. Your 
 teem is typicly the Delta force wile the enemys apear in diffrent uniforms. You can also ride in 
 Humvees and Blackhawks. Delta force black hawk down is a great game both the PS2 XBOX and the PC 
 are alike split screen can be fun wile playign the consel games. The only problem is the graphics 
 can be better and the AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jogirider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  While the singleplayer is extremly fun and chalenging, once thats done, you may get bored. Thats 
 why the multiplayer feature is amazing. With countless maps, constantly being upgraded, and alot 
 of users online, gameplay is amazing and chalenging. Multiplayer is difficult at first, but it 
 helps build alot of skill. Multiplayer is this games most addicting feature. Make friends and play 
 online. Further more, the weapons scheme is great. Every class, medic, gunner, sniper etc... has 
 great and proportianal advantages. All in all, this game is worth the money. Ive spent more than 
 24 hours playing the multiplayer, and im not even bored yet. The players online always present 
 a challenge that will keep you running back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddsrdre
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Whilst the graphics initially do look impressive, you soon realise that there is not much more 
 substance to the game itself. I get the impression that if anybody had the patience to use this 
 engine to create an decent online multiplayer mod there could be a great potential realised. Storyline 
 is predictable if you have either read the book or seen the movie, and even if you haven't, the 
 title gives it away. Whilst there are many more titles available out there today, which will wipe 
 the floor with this game, Black Hawk Down should almost be viewed as a nice introduction to the 
 FPS genre. Given its ease of play, anybody new to the genre will be able to get into the game fairly 
 quickly and start laying waste to the greater part of the Somali population. If you find this game 
 in a bargain bin for a few quid and are currently at a loss what to play, there are worse things 
 you could spend ur loose change on. And if you are particularly good at modding, then please do 
 us all a favour and at least get some use out of this game and use it as a foundation to build 
 something grand from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Delta Force: Black Hawk Down is the fifth installment in the Delta Force Series. A series that 
 started out with a reputation of substance over style, but by the time this game arrived the tables 
 had turned completely. Gone are the horrible graphics, which have been replaced with a decent engine 
 that provides a realistic and believable battlefield. However, also gone is any form of tactical 
 combat, as Black Hawk Down is almost arcade-like in its delivery. There are tactical options, but 
 even at default level they are almost an afterthought as you can blast your way through sixteen 
 (mostly straightforward) missions. And at barely six hours in length, Black Hawk Down lacks in 
 challenge, balance and genuine gameplay (most in part to poor AI) to recommend above a wealth of 
 similar games on the market.
  
  Black Hawk Down is based on the U. S Army missions in Somalia in 1993. You play as a member of numerous 
 divisions, with allies (usually) by your side. There are a variety of missions, involving escorting 
 convoys, destroy enemy weapons and bases, rescuing prisoners, capturing criminals and the obligatory 
 'Black Hawk Down' scenario. Presented in the first person scenario, whilst on occasions there will 
 be the need to man a turret on a moving vehicle, most of the work is done of foot as you engage 
 a never ending supply of enemies as you go from checkpoint to checkpoint. There are squad orders 
 available, there a variety of weapons available and there is a decent playing environment. However, 
 don't expect a realistic military scenario or the need to use any tactical options whatsoever.
 
  
  To the get good things out of the way first, the graphics are quite impressive and this is easily 
 the best visual presentation of the Delta Force series. Based on a new engine, the environment 
 is large and quite well defined, providing the potential some challenging and engaging combat. 
 Whether moving through open land or in the urban environment, the presentation is quite realistic. 
 The squad mates are well defined and the enemies look decent enough. Vehicles, turrets and structures 
 also look the part and the arsenal of weapon is well defined. Explosions are 'over-the-top' but 
 impressive nonetheless, and other effects (water, dust, sun) are used quite effectively. The game 
 moves along well also. At no stage did I experience any slow down in framing, even when there was 
 plenty happening on screen. The sound effects are also reasonable. The missions are usually accompanied 
 by in equal parts atmospheric or intense, combat-driven music and when looked at as a whole, the 
 combat sounds engaging and realistic. However, individually all the weapons basically sound the 
 same, as do vehicles and explosions. Whilst the in-game dialogue is professionally executed, it 
 isn't quite in tune with the environment and the pace of the game. It's also inappropriate at times, 
 with stupid, cheesy comments. The opposition sounds realistic, sometimes yelling at you in their 
 native language, so it seems a bit out of place when the civilians say 'leave us alone'.
  
  The gameplay is where this game ultimately falls down. Where earlier Delta Force games provided 
 a more realistic, tactical approach to combat missions, Black Hawk Down goes for the mindless action 
 approach. And for most of the sixteen missions, that is exactly what occurs. You find yourself 
 moving from checkpoint to checkpoint, and whilst there will be plenty of enemies, they wont be 
 that much resistance. The enemies tend to miss at point blank range (as do you allies, but I will 
 get to that) , making them easy prey. Its is almost shooting gallery stuff at times, and you can 
 tap enemies on the shoulder, being how close you can get without them actually noticing you or 
 engaging you. On most of the missions, there is next to no challenge at the default level. The 
 game also does allow a set number of saves which makes it easier again, and then there are health 
 packs lying around as well which makes it even less of a challenge. Having said, that the games 
 throws its balance out the window by making two missions in particular infuriatingly hard. The 
 missions themselves are structured, with a set amount of objectives that need to be completed in 
 sequence, so you will never get lost. It is always clear what you have to do. Its just youd expect 
 a bit more opposition form multiple enemies and a bit more care in planning you missions. No joke, 
 at times you could mistake this for Serious Sam  a good game, but its not meant to be like that. 
 And whilst the missions themselves are structured, there is no real structure overall campaign. 
 Whilst it does climax with a multiple-mission Black Hawk Down story, before that it almost feels 
 like a bunch of maps glued together with no apparent progression or direction.
  
  The AI of the both the enemies and your allies is appalling. Only the element of surprise or carelessness 
 on your part will led to your demise on most missions, as your enemies stand out in the open and 
 fire (inaccurately) on you, making it almost like a shooting gallery. RPGs always miss the first 
 time, making it easy to get them before the fire the second round, if they actually fire it at 
 all. Enemies will face and fire into walls, run straight past you and at times almost do a dance 
 of sorts as they dont know what they are supposed to be doing, or where they are supposed to be 
 going. To make it worse, your allies AI is the same. Youll lose track of them several times, and 
 find them facing the corner of a tin shed or similar. They push you into the line of fire, engage 
 the enemy from about 5 feet and miss with 20 rounds and are actually a nuisance to the missions. 
 There are some interesting missions and there is an element of WOW to some of the set pieces 
 and gameplay, but ultimately the gameplay flaws really let the game down. When you have completed 
 the final mission, an act of payback for the event of 1993  as you wipe out several targets that 
 run at you like its a football game, it is clear the game doesnt offer enough genuinely satisfying 
 gameplay and gets too much wrong for its own good.
  
  Black Hawk Down takes no more than six hours to complete the 16 mission single player mission at 
 default level. There is an 'operator' level that can also be attempted and a multiplayer component, 
 but there is not much replayability from a single-player perspective. Team Sabre, the expansion 
 pack to Black Hawk Down, whilst having some of the same issues, is actually a better gaming experience 
 - so that's where you would go if you are looking for more single player action. But being an 'add-on' 
 you'll need to have this game first.
  
  I paid AUD$15 for Black Hawk Down, which isn't a lot. However, I have paid less for better games. 
 Also, it did originally retail for about $AUD60, and that is way too expensive for what's on offer. 
 They may have just got away with half that price on release. In the end, Delta Force: Black Hawk 
 Down, has moved to far away from what made the series an engaging and enjoyable gaming experience. 
 Whilst the graphics have been spiced up, looks arent everything. Its devoid of tactical gameplay, 
 genuine challenge, balance and ultimately enjoyment to recommend over other games in the saturated 
 shooter market. And whilst there are some worthwhile missions and gaming moments, its too much 
 like an arcade game. Overall Delta Force: Black Hawk Down is disappointing on a number of levels, 
 which is a pity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  I remember i was pressing enter to shoot instead of the left click in of mouse. I was so n00b in 
 this game til' i started to play with my left hand on the mouse and right hand on the key board 
 while the mouse is in the right side of the keyboard... Yeah it's very weird but it seems like now 
 i am used to it...
  
  Every level you pass a a new level comes. There more than 20 weapons in the game from Colt 0.45 
 through CAR-15 with and without M203 Grenade Launcher to M249 SAW, but all of them are pretty same 
 in the meaning of how they shoot but it isn't really disturb me to enjoy the game. The graphic 
 is also very recycled same buildings all the times and there are only less than 5 different types 
 enemies although it was pretty good at that time in 2003 and the sound still very lame.
  
  There is no plot but the idea is to play as Five-One , a soldier from the Delta Force Unit, and 
 complete objectives by order from the Restore Hope operation in Somalia of 1993.
  
  The game is very simple and solid and even though only one shot can kill the game sometimes get 
 harder a bit especially when it comes to battles against armored vehicles. In the game you can 
 also control armored guns such as Browning M2 50. Cal HMG and the M134 Minigun that attached to 
 Black Hawk Helicopters. You can order your teammates to do some moves such as throwing flash bangs 
 or open fire.
  
  The game also has a very solid and addictive Multi Plater mode. as you can play in Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Team King of the Hill, Capture the Flag and Attack and Defend.
  
  The game is very recommended if you really love simple games with solid gameplay and you can be 
 very addicted to its MP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kowloon-sniper
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Well I only really play this game online as I dont mind the mission there ok but i mainly like 
 playing online why as it is more intense especially playing a all out sniper server i would recommend 
 this game to any one but only to play on multiplayer as it truly is great online but in all out 
 I do give it a thumbs up Ive only completed a few missions on single player and they have been 
 rather good the graphics could of been alot better but its still playable plus could of added alot 
 more weapon types well thats it from me have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Condor23
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  In the Black Hawk Game, you play the events that happen before Black Hawk Down, so I don't know 
 why they call it Black Hawk Down. You get to choose 1 out of 3 missions when you first play the 
 game, it doesn't matter which one you choose though. You get to select your weapons and then you 
 click on load. The worst part of the game is the enemy AI, they spend their time running into walls 
 and shooting in the air. But the good part is, the game has massive levels with rich detail. So 
 there's always a bad guy somewhere to snipe you. GRAPHICS:
  The game's graphics are great, rich enviromental detail, water reflections and brrilant water effects. 
 The one thing that got me the most is that the weapons in the game were realistic. The guns had 
 a nice effect to them, in the way that they looked real. The gun shots were also realistic. The 
 only disappoiontment, was the background effect. The background looked like it was just something 
 drawn on a piece of paper. Didn't really have much inspiration to it. Overall, the game had good 
 graphics.
  
  SOUND:
  Gunshots seem so quick and end with a sharp noise, which can sometimes bother you when you're playing 
 a mission. The soundtrack is nice to listen but the voice acting is terrible, with simple dumb 
 phrases like Get over there! When there's nothing going on. The sound is a simple let down.
  
  VALUE:
  It features online multiplayer which can be fun since you can play other people's 
 maps or create your own map and have people play on it. But if you get the game, do not expect 
 intense battles on every level, expect dull AI and crappy acting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WKK
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 7, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I got this game long ago and sold it because due to the lack of replayability and other features.
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay was poor for the single player missions because the A. I pays no attention to you and 
 it acts totally absurd. It's like for an example you take your weapon and walk in a building with 
 somalians, they don't notice you quick enough. A. I in this game dissapointed me alot in this game. 
 For the Multiplayer, It was definately better than the single player because there are live players 
 with live like human minds so you will have fun on multiplayer but eventually it gets boring and 
 you get sick and tired of killing people and etc etc and the objectives is very boring and the 
 effects and physics suck in both single player and multi.
  
  Sound: 
  The sound was okay. I couldn't have enough points to downsize and tell you about it since i sold 
 it long ago, but for sure i remember they don't sound like professional sounds.
  
  Graphics: They were better than DF 1 and 2 but still this is modern timing now! We need good kick 
 ass graphics! If you want good graphical and good action shooter don't get this game!
  
  Value:
  The value of this game is low. No one cares and no one wants it! I went to EB games one 
 time and well, they had a copy with the expansion for this game, i bought i played and i was very 
 dissapointed and i sold it for jack.
  
  Honestly if you want a good, decent action shooter i suggest you buy Battlefield 2 or for the money 
 savers, download America's Army or check your local stores for some good cheap games.
  
  Thanks for your attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  Admittedly I have never player the full version of this game, only the downloadable demo from GameSpot. 
 Be that as it may, Delta Force: Blackhawk Down was perhaps the worst first-person shooter I have 
 played in a long while.
  
  I saw this game, and its expansion pack, Delta Force: Black Hawk Down: Team Sabre, on sale together 
 for under $20 at a local game shop, and figured Id try the demo before laying down the ducats. 
 I must say that I am glad that I waited.
  
  The demo began with the player and his team of Delta Force operators choppering in to some locale 
 in Mogadishu, Somalia. As the choppers are moving in, numerous Somalis are firing RPGs at the choppers, 
 which the Delta operators are expected to dispatch before the choppers can land.
  
  The graphics were not what I expected for a game released only a few years ago, and from what I 
 experienced through the demo version, the gameplay was not what I would consider enjoyable.
  
  There are so many other better first-person shooters out there, Delta Force: Blackhawk Down 
 is really not worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  this game is a really good game i think. 
  Gameplay 9/10
  The single player mode is awesome cause you can use real weapons and you can save in the missions. 
 The terrain is also very immersive.
  Graphics 9/10
  The graphics are good for a game made in 2003. I can run this game at pretty high settings with 
 still 50 fps.
  Sound there is many verbal missions. Instead of some text telling you what to do you can hear your 
 allys yell out the command.
  Value 9/10
  This game offers great single and multiplayer modes and is preyy cheap too. At 10$ its a great 
 deal. So if you like fps war games then you have to buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnterYourName
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Game Play- The single player in this game is pretty boring and easy. The reason this got a bad 
 score from GS is they didn't even review the multiplayer. The online multiplayer is great, all 
 of the maps are cool and unique. There are so many weapons to choose from, you can be a sniper, medic, gunner, etc, 
 each with their own set of weapons to choose from.
  
  Graphics- They are pretty average in most parts but in some parts they are great, you can just 
 stare at it.
  
  Sound- Bad voice acting, but other than that it's pretty average.
  
  Value- Very good you can play multiplayer all day without getting a membership (membership not 
 required) . And this game is cheap too
  only like $20 at your local Best Buy. I reccomend getting this game you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Fist
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 27, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I was a fan of Delta Force II and I expected this game to be a little better. This game is just 
 dull, the death animations, the mission design, the textures, the gunfighting, everything about 
 this game is rather boring. It generally only gets interesting right before you die. Not that this 
 game is completely without merit, it does have some pretty impressive cityscapes and desert terrains. 
 Unfortunately these large open environments only further decrease the game's intensity. The AI 
 in this game is the worst I have ever seen in a first person shooter, both your enemies and friends 
 walk out into hostile fire and sacrifice themselves for no reason. The AI also gets stuck running 
 into walls quite frequently. I haven't tried multiplayer but I was very disappointed in the single 
 player portion of this game.
  
  Pros: Large environments and good effects, faithfully depicts some scenes from the movie, included 
 mission editor is decent.
  
  Cons: Horrible AI, boring gunfights, uninspired graphics, can be quite frustrating.
  
  Overall: 
 Don't expect this game to get your blood running. Not a suggested buy unless you can find it for 
 really cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I played through a couple of the missions single player and found them to be ok, if nothing exceptional. 
 But the multiplayer is where I felt good about the 10 bucks this now budget title cost me. As of 
 this writing, finding active servers with plenty of players on Novaworld enjoying the multiplayer 
 game was easy.
  
  Of the few maps I played tonight, each one was fun and had some good choke points where there was 
 plenty of action to be had. The sounds and graphics are decent and I had a very good time playing 
 as did everyone else it seemed.
  
  It's usually a good sign when I have been playing something for hours and suddenly realize it is 
 after one in the morning.
  
  In the end, I think Gamespot was right to be tough on this title because of the single player issues 
 they cited but today for some cheap and very fun multiplayer action, it's hard to go wrong with 
 this one from the bargain bin.
  
  Please keep in mind, my rating is mostly for the multiplayer as I spent little time on the single 
 player. I took off points for value as half the game by all reports is pretty well broken in single 
 player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erock7
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game was very disappointing. In addition to the fact that the game has very little 
 to do with the movie, it also has plenty of its own problems. The biggest glaring flaw in the game 
 has to do with the AI. At points in the game the enemy AI is absolutely terrible, they cant hit 
 you point blank and usually are facing the other direction as you come around the corner. Then 
 at other points the enemy AI will be able to spray you down with an AK from so far you can barely 
 see them. Not to mention the fact that the AI of your teammates makes them completely worthless. 
 Half the time they just end up pushing you out into the line of fire, and the other half of the 
 time theyre too busy getting gunned down trying to bum rush machine gun nests. These few things 
 lead to some extremely easy and extremely frustrating missions.
  To make matters worse, there really isnt a storyline linking any of the first 10 missions together. 
 The last six have a loosely fitting story, however by that time the objectives and the game play 
 is so repetitive that all the luster is gone. If that wasnt enough to make you want to quickly 
 finish and uninstall this title, the cheesy voice dialog certainly will.
  This game isnt all bad though. While it is a cookie cutter FPS, it does hold some entertainment 
 value. The game play is smooth, and running through the streets gunning the militia down is always 
 fun. The multi player is probably the best aspect of the game, even though that also quickly gets 
 repetitive. Dont expect too much out of this title because it definitely follows the saying, you 
 get what you pay for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newc
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 31, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the single player SUCKS! Dont play it, no challenge, no fun. But multiplayer is amazing! I'm 
 sick of all others games (besides Unreal, great game) huge maps, tons of aircraft some almost unbeatable 
 when on foot, walking 10 miles to nearest single enemy (which kills you) , then doing that over, 
 too many hiding spots, too many deaths, no fun, no skill. But playing BHD (black hawk down) has 
 none of those, and its amazing! This game takes something games are lacking now, and that is pure 
 skill and nonstop action. You must be able to run and gun down online players, and that is hard 
 to do, also learn to take cover, and not just sit and camp (nither though they do throw maps in 
 to do just that, such as the mountain levels for snipers, and in those levels there is also close 
 combat) but this game has closed small maps, which i love, tons of non stop action, quick spawn 
 times, great ping, great graphics, and is overall fun. I've been playing for 6 years and its amazing, 
 by far this and unreal is the only game i can't put down. Yes others beat it in map sizes and vehicles 
 and graphics (usually those have bad ping time too) , but who really needs that when instead of 
 driving around, you can fight and kill people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newromulanorder
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 14, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  o. k granted that black hawk down isnt the cutting edge grafical game and has quite a few glitchs 
 on single and multiplayer maps, its a lot better than quite a few others, the interface contorls 
 are so easy to master. the button set up means you dont have to mess around with the key board 
 to switch weapons and get the map up, the messager on it is not the best but it allows for talking 
 with everyone or just your allys on the battle field. the guns dont do a huge amount for me as 
 they could be more realistic. all in all i love the game and surprized that gamespot only gave 
 it a 5.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 12, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Well after the not so great "Task Force Dagger" game, the boys at Novalogic went back to the grind 
 and put out a fine game for its time: a game based loosely on the real events of Somalia (UNOSOM 
 II) 1992-1996 and also the famous Bruckheimer classic of the same name.
  
  They did succeed and got the Delta Force ball rolling again and where it is now with the excellent 
 follow ons "DF: Team Sabre, Joint OPS and Joint OPS Escalation". All came out on the very nearly 
 same engine BHD intro'd and was improved upon. 
  
  Those claiming this is just another "Rail run and gunner" game are not really half off, but the 
 end product was always satisfying to me. There is a level of immersion here as the graphics do 
 a great job of rendering a literal armpit of a city that Mogadishu has become but on a smaller 
 scale. You have control over your three man fire team somewhat but the orders you give are pretty 
 basic. You can space your team close or far apart, order them to suppress or hold fire, also you 
 can have them hold their current 20 as well. It's like the set up they used later in the good (not 
 great) Ghost Recon 2 game for XBOX. I prefer this game to that one any day. Mainly cuz your team 
 speaks but very seldomly. GR2 has too many blabber mouths onboard. 
  
  The voice overs are borderline, the synch is off at times but it does not bother me much. The guy 
 you control mostly is a guy can't remember his name right now (lol) but he sounds pretty gung ho 
 and the voice is decent. Other team members sound good and do make the necessary exclamations to 
 further the plot along.
  
  Gameplay is right on too. You do NOT just go run and gun there is a tactical approach to this game, 
 YOU HAVE TO there are hidden enemy everywhere! The MOUT (urban ops) battles are all just like they 
 should be -360 degree asymmetrical warfare. You have baddies with RPG's, AK's, Technicals, and 
 there are tons of them. You and the US side have MH-60's, AH-6's and Humvees on your side and there 
 are great instances where you get help from them as they strafe the enemy to keep their heads down. 
 You do have to be cautious and methodical and scan those rooftops. Tell me how that CAN'T be immersive?
 
  
  Another cool feature is the ability to have a fallen man get a casevac, although I have only seen 
 that feat done like three times. Usually your guy is gone he is gone, but no big loss cuz a new 
 soldier takes his place in later missions. I don't even remember if those guys were even given 
 names but whatever.
  
  The single player ends with the infamous October 3rd, 1993 snatch and grab from hell. The mission 
 is named Irene as the go word was really "Irene" that day for that particular mission. The final 
 final mission is one set in 1996 I believe that has your guy go back to Somalia and offing Farah 
 Aidid personally. Talk about payback.
  
  This game was very well made, it did not offend I think to have a game based on a day where 18 
 US servicemen were KIA as long as it was done in taste. This game is not a tribute per se, but 
 it does put the player in a mindframe to appreciate the hardships some of those men did face. But 
 this is only a game and their hardships and courage were indeed the real deal.
  
  "Copy. Irene."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I finally got down to writing this review after I don't know how many eons of owning the game. 
 Once in a while I play it and its still worthwhile. Sure it doesn't have all the jazz of some of 
 the FPSes out there but at least its authentic. You don't take multiple bullets and keep on going. 
 Like real life. You take a bullet or two in the wrong spot and you're down. In my opinion the Delta 
 Force series started this trend to keep in touch with realism and even though the gameplay can 
 get a bit annoying with the missions seeming to come from a very small set of varied ideas, replayability 
 is not too bad. Multiplayer of course is where the fun is. I didn't dwell too long in the campaigns 
 - in fact I was too impatient (or maybe bored after long enough) to finish the campaigns. 
  And I know there are a lot of newer games out there with better effects and a greater variety of 
 weapons but seriously how many of them are not made up? Even though I can hop on to only a couple 
 of vehicles, I am happy enough with my chaingun up in the BlackHawk.
  Of course I did also wait till the game came out with the expansion pack in a discount set. :) 
  Yep, I think I am familiar enough with the series to know when to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightforglory
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Over time novalogic has had their share of good games and bad games. This is not one of their best. 
 Ill give credit where credit is due though. They did a decent job with the engine. The models are 
 not neccessarily the best but the water and a lot of the textures looks pretty good. Offline this 
 game is just a walk around towards an objective and have people run out in front of you and you 
 shoot them and keep in mind this is basically as advanced as the combat is offline. It doesn't 
 really make it feel like its based on the movie although some parts a similiar. The movie is much 
 more entertaining if you are looking for 3 hours of fun or something to do just go watch the movie 
 it never gets old i can watch it every day. The online in this game is much better and is what 
 most people play it for although there is a game made by logitech called Joint Ops which runs on 
 the same engine and is much much better and you can play with 150 people online on the biggest 
 maps ive seen in any game. Yes joint ops maps are bigger than battlefield 2. Anyway you can get 
 BHD for 10 bucks now so its a good game for that price and the expansion is much better and you 
 can get both for 20. Dont buy this if you are expecting it to be the greatest modern shooter since 
 at the core it is really jsut another run and gun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  this is one of these games that got a bad review and i can't understand why. I mean ok its not 
 a call of duty beater but it still works well (on mulitiplayer) . The single player is ok but the 
 maps feel to bland and needs a bit of change now and again. On a plus side the graphics are good 
 and seems to run on some lower end systems computers i. e mine. This game really gets fun when you 
 online thought in 50 player battles. theres a good amount of weapons and the game seems to perform 
 well online with a max of 50 people at once. the game in a way seems not compleate as there so 
 much that could be improved but deep down there is a good game there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  Chugga chugga chugga, goes the machine gun. Booga booga, up pops an enemy. Chugga chugga chugga, 
 enemy down. Chugga.
  
  Black Hawk Down is a loopy railshooter/fps loosely based on the movie of the same name, although 
 it's more of an excuse for a game set in Somalia. 
  You will be taking on various missions on foot and sometimes switching to a humvee or helicopter. 
 You don't pilot these vehicles but man the machine gun instead, firing on various loony enemies 
 as they take shots at you. These bits are somewhat fun, although they may seem too much like an 
 arcade game for most. They appear, you fire, pilot flies machine. Since you don't have a say in 
 where the vehicle goes, the strategy consists of getting them before they get you. Miss an RPG 
 guy and things'll get fiery. The humvee sequences do feel like the movie, to be fair. Driving between 
 two buildings while enemies on take shots at you.
  The on-foot sequences would be captivating, considering the environments, but the experience is 
 bogged down by the AI. You could forgive the enemies for having bad aim as they're probably a bunch 
 of thugs off the street who've been armed by a warlord, but your Delta Force teammates behave similarly. 
 I was in a rundown building, running for cover with only a handgun left, with enemies closing in 
 and my teammates bringing up the rear. I lunged for the corner and turned, ready to make a final 
 stand against enemies with machine guns, while my Delta buddies caught up. It was then that I noticed 
 the chaos inherent in most of the game. Both sides were running around like headless chickens and 
 firing into the walls. Elite training, you say? Delta Force must be suffering from budget cuts. 
 What the enemies lack in intelligence they make up with numbers and you'll be mowing them down 
 like bugs. You start feeling like you're in an 80s action movie, and wondering if there'll be any 
 Somalis left to enjoy their free country. 
  While the environments are captivating enough, in the end it's the goofball gameplay and AI that 
 drag the game down into mediocrity. You may have some fun running through the slums and there are 
 nice effects from the helicopters, but you'll probably soon be reaching for other games that offer 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soad_kickass
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was great game cause i watch the movie so coool, but when instaled the game 
 and i played 1st mission, i know i was wrong. In the car in 1st mission i like must to be move 
 like their scenario if i didn't shot the RPGman i'll die, so i must find them and destry emall. 
 And the most bad thing of this game is 'one hit kill'. You just need one shoot tho kill enemy soldier 
 so what type of your weapon doesn't matter.
  
  The graphic and sound i just give 6 even the graphic worht enough to be played.
  So if has buy 
 the DVD movie of BHD and after watch it you want to buy this game tou should think twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tagger04
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Well to start the games realism was shot by the run and gun technique. Too many snipers. The M-60 
 is used by nearly everyone i saw. I have had the game for a year or two but never played it much. 
 Any other game by Novalogics was good and I own many of the others such as Joint Operations: Escalations 
 (My favorite) and Delta Force: Xtreme. Even some of the older games Delta Force and Delta Force 
 2. I would suggest playing anyone of those. If you find the right server on Novaworld you may have 
 fun but other than that I think its mainly a arcade shooter without and drivable vehicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I thought that BHD was good, it had some kind of realistic sequences, though not any gore. It had 
 lots of terrain to fight on, there was urban combat, making your way through a city to reach any 
 survivors, being a jeep gunman, or in a helicopter seat covering your allies. It's fn how you can 
 choose how much space between each soldier in your squad, 2 meters 9 whatever, or order them to 
 threow a grenade. The multiplayer wasn't too great though, the maps were usually miscolored or 
 very plain, like the 40 building city with a green sky surrounded by land mines, or the flat desert 
 where you can get shot as soon as you spawn by someone across the map. I don't play the multiplayer 
 often, but I enjoyed the singleplayer a lot and think it's worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  after watching the film and reading the book i would be lying if i said i was only a little bit 
 excited about the release of this game.
  the hole point of the story is how 100 us rangers and delta units managed to hold off a whole city 
 of mental somalians, the game simply doesnt have this. for technical reasons the game isnt bad, 
 the graphics are decnt and the gameplay is smoooth but the story lacks waaay too much. with some 
 missions which are too easy and some which are too hard, the game can get frustratiing at more 
 than one point. the city is also not busy enough, ok, you comer across the odd enemy ad the odd 
 civilian but it should be so you are never away from an ememy or a civilian. the sounds too arent 
 really good, they are a bit tinny and the guns sound less powrful than they should do.
  online isnt bad, its quite fun but gets quite repetetive. if you are a fan of then delta force 
 series (as i am) think twice before buying this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acountddd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Single Player:
  Delta Force: Black Hawk Down has some fun gameplay and a solid feel for controls, but the flaws 
 and glitches really drags it down. The missions are well designed and are quite immersive, however 
 problems like stupid teammate AI and the run-at-you style of enemies pretty much make you a one 
 man army taking on another army. To remedy this most enemies will die in one shot. Overall the 
 single player part of the game is quite good and the enviroment created is amazing but the characters 
 in the game stop it from being spectacular.
  
  Multi-Player:
  The Multi-Player is the same old Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture The Whatever, etc. The community 
 is pretty good, but you have your average dick heads and wise asses, but apart from them there 
 are alot of willing players to make the multiplayer generally enjoyable. There are also plenty 
 of official and custom maps to play on.
  
  Misc:
  A great bonus that made me enjoy this game the most was the mission editor, it has a pretty long 
 learning curve, but once you get past that there are tonnes of things you can make. However the 
 biggest problem with this once again are the default AI of characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superpolo007
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  AWFUL!!!!!!!! It was so bad ans so repetitive escpacially the last missons... The multiplayer was 
 very bad. Graphics were not okay and the soldier you were playing didn't even move. The gun would 
 always stay at the same place and not move... The AI is sooooo easy and all of them arre the same, 
 i mean when the AI are soldiers, they all have the same uniform, but when they are just african 
 militia, i don't ecxpet them to all have the same uniform. They are only a few diferent faces for 
 each men. The only positive stuff is the number of weapons altough they are not very nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: advracer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  After reading the review here at GS, I was a little taken back. I played this game some time ago 
 and remember enjoying it a great deal. It is not the best we have seen, but then again, every combat 
 style game does not have Tom Clancy's name on it.
  
  From what I remember, the first mission opens up right in the action. I know I played that mission 
 a few times just because I enjoyed it so much. The sound coming from the .50 cal is very realistic 
 - it made you almost feel like you were behind the trigger -- really. One reviewer complained that 
 you have no control over the humvee driver while shooting. But this is the case in MANY MANY shooters 
 where are the gunman. Even in Mafia, the same is true and it is not war related at all.
  
  One fault I give the game is the lack of character development. 
  
  If you remove the movie 
 element and play the game for what it is, I think you will enjoy it. Especially at the prices the 
 game can be found now. I have gone back and played it a couple more times and after writing this 
 review, I think I will do it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot323
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Even though its a true story on true events novalogic dropped the ball on this game. Graphics suck 
 easy to play can not set a stratergy. If you go to do something that would make it easier you cant. 
 Sometimes felt like a three stooges show where a bot would be on your tell (a teammate) that hardly 
 helps sits their watches you get shot while your reloading. The AI blew it seemed like they just 
 pushed the game out the door. Online play is a joke cant even join a game. If they took their time 
 and spent more money it would have been an awsome gam but its a midlevel game that 7 year old can 
 learn in 15 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Many tout the film Black Hawk Down as being one of the best war movies of our time (it's not hard 
 to beat a remake of McHale's Navy) . As debatable as that is, the film's allure is undeniable. Soldiers 
 are our heroes. For men in touch with themselves, and thus content with the nature of their dark 
 nature, the rank of supreme ass kicker in the world's most supremely ass kicking army is the highest 
 achievement possible. It's where dreams come from. They are the ones who transcend mere thuggery. 
 They are the ones that take simple violent competition to a new, contained, professional, and admirable 
 level. They protect us and go where no one else will. They stand up against opposition that no 
 one else would dare to go toe-to-toe with; then, with the might of their arm and the power of their 
 M16, they bend the foe to do their bidding. Is it any wonder why it's so fun to play the part of 
 the hero, of the soldier? While still embracing latent human tendencies -- violent urges woven 
 into every line of our genetic code -- we get to become that which we never thought we had the 
 metal to become. Be the hero. Be the conqueror. Put everyone in a coffin. Play Black Hawk Down. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  In some missions you have a squad that follows you, which you can command using a clunky interface. 
 But for the most part you probably won't even bother with squad commands, because your teammates 
 are good enough at following you around. However, you'd think that since they're badass Rangers 
 and Delta Force operatives, they'd be much better shots than they are. They aren't; so the onus 
 is on you to gun down most of the baddies that you encounter. The general simplicity of the single-player 
 campaign in Black Hawk Down may appeal to those looking for an uncomplicated shooter to while away 
 the time, but for the rest of us, it leaves a lot to be desired.
  
  There's some salvation to be had in the multiplayer aspect, which offers support for 32 players 
 online on the PS2 version, and 50 players online over Xbox Live. Split-screen cooperative and deathmatch 
 modes are available for up to four players on each, but the game's primary draw should still be 
 the team-based and competitive play offered online. Novalogic's network offers a wealth of statistics 
 to peruse, and the action in the game can actually be somewhat fun, albeit simplistic and chaotic. 
 When servers are full, the action gets fast and furious, with dozens of players running around 
 and gunning each other down while they're trying to capture spawn points and achieve objectives 
 at the same time. On the downside, the extreme power and blast radius of grenades leads to a lot 
 of spamming and abuse of these weapons, particularly the underslung M203 grenade launcher on the 
 M16 rifle. The more-open maps offer more rifle play, but the indoor maps with hallways and rooms 
 can often degenerate into grenade duels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banzino_gothic
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Black hawk kicks asson a limited bases forget what other people say .its graphics are great guns 
 gameplay story line is great and it's Black hawk down helicopters are the best ,thats what makes 
 the Beginning of the mission soo great since you enter the battlefield in it but ,but enemies poorly 
 build they shoot like crap they even close there eyes when shooting come on. You can even stand 
 in front of him and not get shoot I mean what da hell .but in overall the game is great and guns 
 ,missions are wonderful .and the you can easily control your team and the multiplayer game is great 
 since you will have a good opponent to shoot .Unlike Co Malians in the game (the enemy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_1234Anderson
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first shooting games i ever played. it deserves better than other reviewers 
 rate it. the graphics and sound are very good. yes the AI cant aim. oh well. if you turn up the 
 difficultly it puts in more of a challenge. some missons are long and unbeatable, others are the 
 opposite. all of them run on a pre-determined track though. often when you could get a good snipe 
 shot on a hill or building the game wouldnt let you. the vehicle mounts are fun but it would be 
 nicer if you could steer. many glitches with AI and other small things that make the game annoying. 
 multiplayer is madness but there are many empty servers. i RECOMMEND this game highly. if you can 
 put up with small glitches and bad AI but want a good shooter game then get this. also GET THE 
 EXPANSION. it adds a lot more missions fighting drug cartels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vietnamgamer
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you mix terrible graphics, horrible gameplay, a retarded storyline, and a 
 game that is based on a tree event, but yet is very far away from being even close to the detail? 
 Delta Force Black Hawk Down for the PC. Trust me, they didn; t add anything but the graphics to 
 the PS2 version either. This game was probably the second worst computer game I have played. You 
 have a command menu, but when you issue orders, your teamates just sit there and give a non-blinking, 
 square faced stare. Even Delta Force 1 was better than this game. I am very terribly sorry Novalogic 
 for saying this, but all the DF: BHD's for all the systems were, well screw ups. Well I am gonna 
 cut this review short, and not waste both our times. Key point, don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suprman2184
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  if you are looking for a game that has great open mulitiplayer maps, this is the game for you. 
 the single player mode is good to learn the controls and f you want to play it for fun. the difficulty 
 of the game changes from how good you are at the game. easy mode is easy but the harder mode is 
 pretty hard. when you play in the single player mode the enemy can be killed with only one shot 
 anywhere in the leg or arm head anything can kill them. the mulitiplayer mode, killing the enemy 
 is harder cause your facing real people and they pick there weapons to kill you with. mulitiplayer 
 mode is great because there is a lot to do, blow up, hide to snipe from. the maps are the biggest 
 that i have played on so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake289
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 3:50 am PT
Review:  delta force black hawk down is the third delta force game in the seris which came out in 2003, theres 
 lots of new fetures in the game, the gameplay good playing mutiplayer rocks on novaworld wat i hate 
 is the cheaters, the graphics are good they r using the commerdoe 4 gfx engine so it does look good 
 but the BHD should have had rag dolls and the player models hands look cheap, the players arm looks 
 good very detailed, the sound is good u can get the sound of battle in mutiplayer if everybody is 
 shooting and in 1 mission in single player its like D-day, this game is great value its also 7.99 
 now, the AI short a sucks and there could have been a few more weapons and vilcals but if u want 
 more get team sabre its expantion pack: ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jondavisx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game a lot, sure its not the most advanced in graphics compared to todays standards, 
 but they don't seem to get in the way. The online multiplayer is free but its not that great do 
 not buy DFBHD if you are a serious online shooter freak, however if your looking for a game that 
 has a decent single player campaign this may be the one for you. DFBHD has 20 plus missions and 
 the expansion pack adds about the same amount on top of that. You get to select the gear you want 
 from M24, Barrett, M4, M16 203, And other type of gear. The AI seems not to smart at times & Clairvoyant 
 at others most of the AI's actions are scripted, and are always ( 99 %) in the same spot. So that 
 is one draw back to the replay value. You basically do not have any team mates who really are very 
 useful to you although it appears they help you in the scripted advents. For the most part though 
 this game is fun and worth the time playing it. Best of all I'm sure you can find it dirt cheap 
 with the expansion pack.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djguns
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the graphics and the realism of the game. Some missions were more complex than others 
 like landing on the beach trying to make your way through a mine field while having mortars dropped 
 on you from above.
  
  Overall I feel the game has good re-play value and I will be playing it again in the future. The 
 down side was that you could only carry 1 or 2 main weapons, there were times I didn't need C4 
 explosives and would've like to been able to carry another weapon in it's place. However you get 
 use not being able to carry 2 main weapons during the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_love_Harmony
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually pretty cool inspite of the fact that gamespot gave it a 5.5. T he graphics 
 re amazing and the gameplay is fun. The levels are good too, the environments look cool. Although 
 the game does not have much of a story or plot. It probably is nowhere near as good as all the 
 other great first person shooters out there but i still like it as a fun game. If your looking 
 for really intellgent AI or immersive gameplay then this probably not a fps game worth getting 
 but on it's own merits the game holds up pretty well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:21 am PT
Review:  I watched movie and I just impressed by movie. And I was hardly waiting for game of the movie. 
 When I bought the game and start playing it was what I expect from game. May be I just too much 
 excited about it. DF: Black Hawk Down is in my collection with it is deserved expansion pack Team 
 Sabre. I am glad that I got this game and for the good I would say I really enjoyed it, especially 
 Team Sabre. 
  Graphic was in right way and game play definitely was best one, with unexpected situations as it 
 was in movie or maybe even real time. Documentary during game process was brilliant and you could 
 know why you are here and why the hell this people are attacking you or other. 
  I liked also music in this game it was right chosen to the place. Weapons, enemies, allies and 
 environment was just incredibly real and if you will shoot you own team member he will die, that 
 was one of the realty aspects of the game. 
  Also in this game you just dont run and shoot or save you own life, you should also think, 
 protect or work with you team members. It was a bit frustrating that in some points they didnt 
 do that, but however it was really good game and I enjoyed it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgeASD
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  DF-BHD review by georgeASD
  
  Hi guys, lm a fan of delta force series but l have my reasons.
  In this case lm taking about 
 DF-BHD. the people of gamespot gave to the game a low ranking and am not agreed.
  The game is frustrating like they say, but is not a bad game, in efect the game is very hard and 
 that is a challenge, is realistic, and very good for players like me, anyway no one says war is 
 easy.
  But the problem comes with the AI, is to bad, In the enemy maybe not, but in friendly soldiers 
 is abysmal, they shoot slow and they not do much damage to the enemy.
  Everything else is fine, the sound, the graphics, the history and the game play. 
  My rank to 
 this game is 8.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The game is good. However, single player has its own problems, like AI is stupid, and graphics 
 picture in some objects is suck. But ! But! The Multiplayer DF BHD is one of the coolest. You have 
 plenty of weapons to choose as well as characters to play. U can be sniper, or gunner... etc
  Game can run at any modern computer Graphics any Ge Force 2-4, Ram 256MB...... . Gamestory in the 
 single player is very interesting and fun, so you will enjoy the game. Never saw any buggs or laggs 
 in game so no reason to download any patches. I like the reality in Multiplayer DF, its usually 
 one shot in leg and you are wonded , one shot in head or chest you're dead. So you better be a 
 good shoter to play DF BHD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shootamon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I actually think this game makes you feel like you're in the middle of a battle. But, considering 
 I, myself, have only completed one level, know it can be upsetting, but if you're deep into this 
 stuff like I am, you may find it fun. These missions actually make you, yourself go in and stay 
 as long as possible. You always have to infiltrate the battle first, THEN complete the objectives. 
 They never drop you off in the center of a battle. That can be good, but can be bad, too. This 
 game really makes you work, and thats good. I do reccomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joojoo500
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 9, 2005 7:48 am PT
Review:  At Last I got ya Gamespot guys , i got ya .... 
  With all my due respect for the great gamespot team ,
  the score u gave to the game sux , u r 
 completely WRONG this time ,
  I GOT YA 
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:08 am PT
Review:  Well first of i started playing this game two years ago i think it was great fun in september i 
 stopped playing it and im not gonna play it again i think. so now im writing a review i think it 
 deserves one. 
  
  The good about the gameplay: The singleplayer is fun and when you done you got a cool multi to 
 play. Its fun too walk inn the streets of mogadishu. You can make your own maps. 
  
  The bad about the gameplay: Very bad Ai, Frustrating single player campaign at times.
  
  The 
 good about the graphics: It still has good graphics after all these years.
  
  The bad about the graphics: it looks outdated at times, the characthers faces look horrible, the 
 buildings are poorly done.
  
  the good about the sound: There are plenty of real sound in the game, i love the sound of desert 
 critters.
  
  The bad about the sound: The sounds on the weapons are horrible.
  
  This game is well worth the money. even when it camed out it had good value. 
  
  I never played 
 a game more fun in my life i hope there comes more games like these. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: srickert12
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 23, 2005 10:02 pm PT
Review:  As far as true history goes this game is very accurate. I have to admit it had a lot of downfalls, 
 but overall it was a game worth playing. The AI in it were not as good as they should have been 
 but if they were all perfect shots the game would have been to easy. At least the men in your ranger 
 chaulk (team) took commands and did there job. I don't feel it was just a shoot-em up game though. 
 I believe the game was well written and carried out. The interface was a bit clumsy however. The 
 graphics could have been better. I didnt like the fact that you had a limited number of save games 
 at first, but end the end I liked it because you had to plan your saves for when you really needed 
 them, therefore adding a strategic part of the game. You had some complex missions that you had 
 to achieve. It did get a little repetitive is some spots, but I never lost interest. It had a lot 
 of bugs on the first release, but the patch resolved most of them. You team would sometimes shoot 
 you on accident or would run into the line of fire, but that happens in real life situations. I 
 feel this game wasnt really given a fair chance. Also there are no real cheats available for the 
 game which a lot of people were turned off by that. Overall for the date it was released in early 
 of 03 I would say give it a chance. From what I read I almost didnt, but when I did I was glad 
 I did. I got many hours of enjoyment in it. I overlooked the flaws and understood the story line. 
 In the true story they were outgunned and outmanned which leaves a very hard game. I hate to see 
 the rating on this site for this game, because its a lot better then given credit for. If you 
 get the Platinum Pack that contains Team Sabre you are really in for a treat. The original game 
 came with 15 very fun missions that utilized authentic military tactics. The Platinum Pack came 
 with 2 bonus missions that are so realistic they are almost impossible to complete. The game was 
 actually used by the military for training. The two bonus missions were from what I understand 
 the ones actually used for training soldiers on urban combat. You have to use strategy on how you 
 approach your target. You send you squad into rooms to take and secure the room. In my opinion 
 this game got a bad wrap and deserves a second look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbygurung
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2005 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Black hawk down is set in somalia you are an american soldier and have to complete various missions 
 to help your team. 
  Black hawk down is an ok game if you like shooting and team based games like swat 4.
  Graphics 
 are ok for a 2003 game but lacks on some features they are a bit outdated nothing like metal gear 
 solid 2.
  Gameplay is pretty solid at times but sometimes is quite rubbish like they dont respond to commands 
 if you order them to.
  Sounds are pretty nice like the crack of the barret 50. cal and the m16 fire but the voices are 
 
  repetative and also gets boring easily.
  Value is pretty good value but i recomenned that you rent the game first to try it, the game has 
 pretty low replay value on single player mode.
  Multiplayer mode is the only thing keeping it alive it does lag but mostly fun if you have a good 
 server. 
  A. I SUCKS in the game your team hardly ever helps you even if the enemy is 2cm away 
  Pointless 
 note: the landmine bit is the most IRITATTING bit in the whole game
  Overall delta force black hawk down is a thrill 1st but then runs out quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neomatrixspider
Rating: 1.4
Date: Aug 10, 2005 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game, and man. I feel like a complete moron. This looked so fun, but it is terrible. 
 The environments are bland, at best. The characters look like crap (like first generation PS1 games) . 
 Oh yeah, and the AI is the worst ive seen in a while (worse than war zone for the n64) . Online 
 gameplay is choppy and always crashing and has a whopping 3 characters to choose from. The game 
 is also way to easy, one shot and they are dead. You also can predict exactly where the enemies 
 are going to be, every time. It is the disappointment to the very end. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Eagle_2004
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2005 5:03 am PT
Review:  I don't understand why Gamespot gave this game a low score. It's one of the best multi-players 
 out there. Black Hawk Down take you to Somila, Africa during Operation Restore Hope in the early 
 1990s. You start out as the team leader of group known as Delta Force. Delta Force in one of the 
 top elite forces in todays military. Besides the fact, the game starts you off in doing missions 
 it doesn't take you straight forward to incident that everyone saw in the movies. The missions 
 are ok but not the best. You get a few squad members that you take with you on missions but since 
 the enemy AI are one shot kills there pretty much are back up. Not saying that the enemy AI are 
 not intelligent. The game does get harder after the first few missions and that the game gives 
 you a limited number of game saves. Besides the gameplay, the graphics aren't the best in the world 
 and the music and sound fx are just great. The voice overs could of needed a bit more work. But 
 besides the single player there is multiplayer. Multiplayer is the best out of the whole game. 
 In multiplayer you rates you on how good you do in it and awards you with medals like for headshots, 
 medic saves, or capturing the most flags. Plus it promotes you through the Army ranks on how well 
 you do. So I recommend this game to anyone new to novalogic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 15927
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 14, 2005 1:36 am PT
Review:  This game is unbelivable and I think probably the best military game out there. Sure the graphics 
 aren't the best but the gameplay is unbelivably fun. 
  
  Gameplay- Even after all the recent releases I still go back and play this game. No matter how 
 many times you play the game the replay value never seems to go down.
  
  Graphics- I have seen better but, they aren't the worst.
  
  Sound- Very realistic sounding 
 weapons, vehicles, and just about everything else.
  
  Value- This thing is cheap now. At this price you gotta get this one.
  
  This is one of my 
 favorite games I own and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 4, 2005 4:00 am PT
Review:  First of all I think why people don't think that this is as great a game as say half-life 2 or 
 Rainbow 6, is for the simple reason this game was based around a movie, a book, as well as an actual 
 event. I have yet to beat the game because i just recently purchased it. However, I get the sense 
 and feel that I am in a real war. If you move to fast through the mission, you will get punished 
 by some somali with an AK47 that you missed. And for the 1000's of somali's coming at you in the 
 game, it follows very well with the movie of where an entire city fell upon them. This game really 
 bring across that grit feeling of war.
  
  Well with that being said lets get down to business.
  
  Gameplay: One thing I enjoy about this 
 game is you start with one objective but then you are trucked in game to another part of the map, 
 to meet up with another unit, and perform a mission there. The fact that you perform multiple missions 
 that are important sounding really adds to the immersion for me. The lack of health and ammo "packs" 
 also add some very nice realism. Yes the somali's AI is very terrible, however, i think that goes 
 well because the somali's were not trained, they were simple men given guns and told to fight for 
 this cause, so it goes well that the Aim of the somali's isn't that great, and that they turn in 
 wierd ways. I think its the developers way of showing panic in the computer controlled characters. 
 Now for your own side, there's no rhyme or reason why your team mates can't see a somali and shoot 
 them efficiently. They will waste several rounds shooting the object in front of them rather than 
 moving around and shooting them. However this could be to allow the player to rack up more kills, 
 which takes away from the realism.
  
  Graphics: This is nowhere near half-life 2 or doom 3 but hey the graphics are fine for me. Plenty 
 of detail on the weapons, and the other characters in the game. The walls look real, and the city 
 landscapes are quite realistic with bombed out sections. One thing I like is that the soilders 
 that you kill stay dead, they don't disappear from what I can tell. The computer controlled teammates 
 could move a little more fluidly but thats forgiving. The one thing I can not tolerate however, 
 is in some parts of the map when it gets tight, be it a corner or surrounded by mean, some clipping 
 issues can occur.
  
  Sound: This is to me what makes a FPS game. The weapons ring off with great clarity and realism. 
 My father who knows from expierence the working end of an AK47 heard me playing the game and while 
 i was behind cover could hear just the AK's firing and he could recognize that as an AK47. The 
 US weapons as well sound true to form. The music I am not a big fan of. I am a purist when it comes 
 to FPS games, i would rather hear more of the ambient noise of the enviroment rather than music.
 
  
  Value: This is where i am glad it has multi-player mode. Once you play through the campaigns the 
 replay value is very low for the single player game. The multi-player takes up this replay-ability, 
 and if you either play with your buddies around your office, or you go onto the novalogic server 
 (haven't tried yet) , you can get hours upon hours of cat and mouse action.
  
  Tilt: I am going to have to tilt this up some. I really enjoy the story and the sounds are very 
 real. I also want to give it a plus because of the non-combatants that throw rocks at you, thats 
 a nice touch, as well as teh aligators. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 10, 2005 6:30 am PT
Review:  BHD is no way the best 1st shooter as anyone can recommend at the moment, well, i am not saying 
 its totally crap but, in the end it gets a total bore and only thing that kept me going for a wee 
 bit more, was the multiplayer.
  
  The detail on the enemyies are the year 2000 graphics, they are CR@P, and, you can't even pick 
 up there weapons.
  
  There isn't much more to say in this, because everything else is rather the same as what i wrote 
 above, not my best game at all.
  
  I prefer games like COD, and BIA and Far Cry, there the real games to play for 1st shooters, and 
 in the end BHD is a total waste of time AND money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 10, 2005 4:24 am PT
Review:  Black Hawk down is an average FPS shooter that continues the Delta Force legacy. It has a decent 
 single player campaign... well there are several campaigns spanning several countries. There is 
 a great multiplayer which is my favorite part. Another plus is the mods... this game has so many 
 mods that there are several compelte remodels of the game to create new games with the BHD engine.
 
  
  Out of these mods I think the Band of Brothers BHD conversion is the best. It keeps the engine 
 and adds all new player skins, weapon skins, a new campaign and visuals. It changes the menus, 
 the hud, everything. It turns BHD into a WWII fps with the same easy controls and fairly well made 
 engine. The levels have more detail and are a bit more fun than the original BHD levels.
  
  The Black Hawk Down campaign is pretty good... the missions range from recon and assaults to defensive 
 missions and assassinations. The game takes place in several countries, including: Pakistan, Afghanistan, 
 Columbia, Kuwait and South Africa. 
  
  The missions involve many scenarios from ambushed convoys to protecting food supplies from rebel 
 forces. Several missions include intense fire fights and others include stealthy night-time recon 
 missions. There is a wide array of weapons in your arsenal from a silenced stealthy MP5 to a hardcore 
 Rambo-esque M60. 
  
  There are 4 character classes aswell, Medic, Demolitions, Sniper and Gunner. This gives teamwork 
 a chance and the ability to use tactical assaults whether your doing a single mission offline or 
 a massive online clan battle.
  
  Black Hawk Down doesn't offer the greatest FPS experience but it is a cheap game that is a great 
 buy for it's exceptionally low price of about $9.99... a great bargain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_devil52
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 4, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Many people may have regarded Mogadishu as a big failure for the Americans. In fact, it was a big 
 success because the American force went in and did what they had to do with minimal casualties.
 
  
  Blackhawk Down pays tribute to those who fought there and in my opinion Novalogic do it pretty 
 damn well. The graphics have had a major overhaul from previous versions, the AI has been improved 
 and people who fought in Somalia were brought in for reference and to help create some missions 
 that were actually done. The enemies come and seek you out and they make use of the cover well. 
 Your teammates arent so bright so expect to do most of the work yourself.
  
  There are four character types: CQB, Gunner, Medic, and Sniper. The CQB, Close Quarters Battle, 
 had access to most of the weapons and has an extended reach when using the knife. The gunner uses 
 all of the heavy machinery like the M60 or SAW, the medic can only use the M16 or CAR15 but he 
 can heal his comrades. The sniper has access to the sniper rifles. Each character is specialized 
 with their type of weapons and using something different might result in lower performance. Unfortunately, 
 the character types only come into play when youre online, which I will explain later.
  
  The weapon set has had some additions to it since Delta Force 2. You can use mounted .50s on Humvees 
 or trashed cars, miniguns on blackhawks and a wide variety of weapons. Theres the M60, M21, and 
 AT-4 to name but a few. Youll find something to suit your needs.
  
  The single player campaign takes you from protecting a UN supply convoy in the countryside to fighting 
 in the underground tunnels of Somalia. Most of the missions are along the line of protecting this 
 and destroying that and at times they can get very frustrating when you think you have killed 
 everyone only to be taken out by some grunt who appeared out of nowhere. Novalogic have included 
 the ability to save in-game, so if theres someone mounted on a .50 just round the corner you can 
 hit F5 and go and take him on. If you get killed youll have the ability to return to the menu, 
 restart the mission or continue from a save point. I like this feature and it saves a lot of anger 
 and tears.
  
  Blackhawk Down begins to shine when you take it online. When you first connect, you will get a 
 welcome screen, which encourages you to join up with Novaworld, but it isnt a necessity. From 
 there you will either get to a screen with all of the servers for Blackhawk Down or you will get 
 a screen showing what you can do with your account. This is all self-explanatory. The list of servers 
 has the server name; the region the server is based in and how many people are playing in that 
 server. Obviously, the closer you are to the server the lower your ping time will be and I personally 
 recommend NOT playing with dial-up. Itll only lead to frustration and hatred of the game.
  
  When you get in to a game with 30+ people the experience is unbelievable. It almost feels like 
 youre experiencing what youve seen in the movies. Grenades blowing up on your left, your allies 
 being picked off by snipers on your right, and someone firing their AT-4 right in your face. Itll 
 make you come back for more every time.
  Although Blackhawk Down definitely isnt the best Tactical FPS out there, it set out what it intended 
 and did it well. If you are a fan of the series then youll get a lot of enjoyment out of it, but 
 if youre a newcomer then rent it before you buy it. 
  
  Red_devil52
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cruzedwfc
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 2, 2004 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Well i saw the movie and read the book and i loved them (you should get them too) So when i heard 
 there was going to be a game i was enthusiastic. Well i got the demo and it was pretty good so 
 i got the game. Well to start things off let me just say the signle player sucks.
  The AI is horrible, the somolians will just stand there and not shoot you and the missions just 
 arn't that fun. It is also very easy because of the AI and the fact that its just so unrealistic. 
 The guns have almost no recoil even when you fire the largest weapons while running.
  
  Well after I finished the single player i figured that i had just wasted my money and put the game 
 away for a while. Big mistake. I forgot to play the multiplayer and it is great. I finally got 
 around to playing it, and although it still isn't that realistic it is just plain fun. With many 
 different game modes like TKOTH, TDM, DM, CTF, SD, AD and COOP you will be busy for a long time. 
 Since there is no AI in MP you wont have to worry about it being to easy. Whats also great about 
 the MP is that it incorporates a very elaborate stat system. As you gain 
  stat points while you play you wil go up ranks. You can go anywhere from PVT to 5 star general. 
 There are also several otehr awards you get for kills, knifes, headshots and other things making 
 it even more addicting, you will play for hours just trying ot gte that next rank or award and 
 when you do it a very rewarding feeling.
  
  The graphics are mediocre. Although the weapons are pretty well modled the terrain is very repeative 
 and boring, especially on desert levels. Explosions look look horrible and the physics arn't stunning 
 either.
  
  If your a fan of just some fun manic shooters with little realism this gaem is for you. If you 
 want a serious tactical shooter look else where, overall this game is a great value just for the 
 multiplayer but if your not into multiplayer look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luzzu
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Black Hawk Down is a pretty decent game especially when you look at it's multiplayer counterpart. 
 The single player campaign has it's ups-and-downs; some missions you can get into and enjoy playing 
 - while others you just can't (happens more often than you'd like) . BHD would be more apt to please 
 if the Artificial Intelligence featured in the game were actually a bit more, uhh, intelligent. 
 For the most part, you'll just let the bullets fly and watch the bodies falls like magic, cheesy 
 magic too - like the kind your kid nephew buys in toy kits.
  
  Anywho, everything that's done in the single player mode is simply better in the multiplayer mode. 
 Online, the play is both more challenging and quite a bit more fun; except for those tricky little 
 cheaters that pop up on occasion (they refuse to die, grr) . This is where most of the gameplay 
 value is, it's likely that you will be playing online more than you will be by yourself against 
 the half-witted AI. There are also various online games that you can join, it's your usual arrangement 
 of matches you've come to expect when playing some sort of gun-type-shooter-game, eh? You have 
 your deathmatches, capture the flag, and whatnot. You'll have a good time getting your Terminator 
 on and all that good stuff, although some of the levels (e. g., night vision boards) put a damper 
 on things.
  
  The graphics in the game are average. There's really a broad range of visuals to experience, that 
 is, you may encounter 'pretty nice' and 'holy ugly, Batman! in the same working. More specifically, 
 most of your weapons and environments (especially the water) look just fine. However, your enemies 
 and fellow soldiers don't look just as good but it's nothing that will stick out at you too much 
 . . . well, usually.
  
  The sound does what it's supposed to do. This isn't Final Fantasy or Beethoven's Fidelio. You have 
 the explosion sound, the bang-bang sound, and the rapid fire sound. That's all, and that's all 
 that is necessary.
  
  En masse, if you desire a nice, fun online experience, then this is your bag of potato chips (or 
 whatever kind of bag you like best, I'm impartial to potato chips, okay?) . Otherwise, if you'd 
 love yourself some single player soup, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 25, 2004 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Black Hawk Down is a good game, but the single player part has alot of glitches, Gamespot says 
 that it's hard to paly also because of the glitches, I however did not find this, yes the game 
 was somewhat hard, but the glitches had nothing to do with it!. I liked the single player, But 
 the multiplayer is the big thing here, it's so addicting, the game may be old, but it still has 
 a big online gaming community. I still play it, and so do alot of people!. The graphics are good, 
 and sound is good, the gameplay is fast and it'll always leaving you wanting to play more!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Delta Force: Black Hawk Down is the fifth Delta Force game, and it's the best one yet but it's 
 still not that great compared to other first person shooters out there.
  
  The single player campain is better then in past Delta Force games. It's made up of about 10 fictional 
 missions that you will have to complete before getting to Operation Irene and the main story of 
 Black Hawk Down. The first 10 missions are lame, you will be clearing out towns, riding in a convoy, 
 you won't really be doing anything related to Operation Irene. Once you do start Irene the missions 
 are better and somewhat follow the events the real events that happened. You will mostly be walking 
 down allleys and trying to pick off your enemys which isn't really that hard. The enemy AI isn't 
 as bad as in past DF games but it's still pretty bad. There are scripted enemys that are triggered 
 when you reach a certian point, they have some what of a good chance to hit you but their first 
 shot usually always misses. The other enemys that patrol around are really bad shots, about the 
 only time you will take damage is when you are out numbered. You do have squad mates for most of 
 the missions and they do kill people and will sometimes take action own their own, you can also 
 command them if you want. Black Hawk Down isn't a realistic shooter either, it's more of a arcade 
 style shooter, you will be killing a ton of enemys which the game keeps track of.
  
  The graphics are much better then in past DF games. Buildings, objects, and enemys all have good 
 detail and textures to them. When you use your night vision it gets a little grainy and is hard 
 to identify targets. The guns, RPG's, vehicles, and explosions all sound ok but not that great. 
 The .50 cal machine gun probably sounds the best.
  
  When comparing this game to the other DF games it's pretty good, but when comparing it to other 
 FPS's out now it's not very good. As with the other DF games they are just not done as well as 
 other games out there. It's a good bargin bin game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 27, 2003 6:02 am PT
Review:  The Delta Force series has always stunk in the single player department. This new entry in the 
 franchise is no different. You can get an occasional few moments of fun during single player missions, 
 but there are dozens of better alternatives out there. 
  
  Where the Delta Force series has always performed well was in multiplayer. I really can't explain 
 it, nothing about BHD or any of the DF games have any real unique or outstanding features. Yet 
 for some reason, they've always offered some of the most intense and fun multiplay you can find. 
 King of the Hill is probably the most basic multiplayer concept next to deathmatch, but it can 
 have some incredibly intense games. Isn't this the reason you play? 
  
  If you use the "Reviewer's Tilt" and compare this to the other games in the DF series, it compares 
 very well. I think the 5.6 Gamespot review was a bit rough. I think maybe on single-player alone 
 it would deserve that. Factoring in a truly enjoyable multiplayer game with good weapons and maps, 
 I think the game is more worthy of a 7-7.5... I think the Gamespot reviewers have always disliked 
 the DF series for it's joke of a single player game and have never given props to the truly enjoyable 
 online component the series has always had. 
  
  If you're looking for a realistic simulation, go play Flashpoint or Ghost Recon. If you're looking 
 for a wham-bam, fast-paced, less realistic but just as intense multiplay game... You could do a 
 whole lot worse than Delta Force: Black Hawk Down.
  
  My only real knock on the multiplay game: Elimination of regular King of the Hill, now you can 
 only play team-based KotH and not "Every man for himself" mode. Not a big deal... but the everyman 
 for himself mode was great for small groups of friends playing private games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandpoobah
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2003 11:29 am PT
Review:  Gamespot got it WRONG this time! The GS review reeks of a bias against precisely what BHD is: a 
 fast-paced FPS characterized by some rails and some arcade style elements. To my knowledge, BHD 
 does not pretend to be anything else. What it does pretend to be - and with great reason - is a 
 hellaciously fun action game that sucks the player right into the fury and works him over with 
 a baseball bat. I was exhausted after the Besieged single-player mission! If I want to pretend 
 I'm a combatant in a "real" war, I'll pop in BF1942 and think my way around the map. But when I 
 want to really rock 'n roll the bad guys, blow things to high heaven, and feel the power I grab 
 BHD and run a mission. It's great. And, get a clue GS, BHD multi-player kicks holy butt! The environments 
 are huge, the weapons are plenty, and when you're a gunner on a Humvee you're SUPPOSED to be on 
 rails!! And your opponents are living, breathing humans so the suspect AI that you just bashed 
 to hell and back is not an issue to the online gamers.
  While the AI is typically dumb and predictable, it is in most other games, too. But, as one reviewer 
 pointed out, with real-life kill ratios of 200 to 1, it may just be that Somalian rebels are dumb 
 and predictable also.
  BHD is not without some weaknesses, but a score of 5.6 is just ridiculous. BHD excels in the FUN 
 and EXCITEMENT departments, which is why I buy games. C'mon GS, get off your high horse, play the 
 game again, and write an accurate review.
  
  jakesnake66 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chutney_Ferret
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 7, 2003 5:37 am PT
Review:  I'm not averse to an arcade shooter, but there's something about BHD that leaves a nasty taste 
 in my mouth. 
  
  Maybe its because I was hoping for something like a more action-oriented Rainbow Six or Operation 
 Flashpoint. Maybe its becuase I've spent the last six months spoiled by just how good Battlefield 
 1942 is, and how shooting hordes of mindless computer-controlled drones no longer hold any interest. 
 Then again, maybe its because portraying actual events in Somalia as some gung-ho fragfest where 
 Somalians just hang around in ones or twos to get shot is plain distasteful. 
  
  Whatever, if you like brain-dead shooters with questionable morals, this is your man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Guitarplayer-
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2003 11:55 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome arcade style game. It has everything you need and you can play it over and over 
 again. The game does remind you of the movie and does a great job of getting you involved in the 
 game. The multiplayer is the only thing that could have used a little tweaking. It isnt bad though. 
 If your looking for a game thats quick and easy to get into, then this is your game. Sure its not 
 realistic but most video games arent so who cares, its still great fun. Gamespot got it wrong 
 this time. This game is awesome!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheckMate
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2003 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. That is all you really need to know and that is all that is really important. 
 It isn't complex, it isn't a simulator and I don't think it was meant to be. The missions are short 
 but good, and you usually have a few companions along the way. They aren't very smart, but they 
 cover your six when necessary. Occasionally they will get in your way, but just ignore them and 
 do what you bought this game to do: shoot some skinnies!
  
  There is nothing groundbreaking in the game, though the water effects look excellent. The AI for 
 the skinnies is simple and they certainly don't employ any tactics. But the really didn't in the 
 movie either. It is a very standard FPS game, nothing more. Mogadishu provides some tense urban 
 combat areasand the levels are huge. The game is fun plain and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbryant73
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 8, 2003 11:17 am PT
Review:  GS's review is totally unfair. Black Hawk Down is an arcade-style rail shooter through and through. 
 GameSpot realizes this, but they seem to have forgotten one tiny point: such games can actually 
 be incredibly fun.
  The reviewer makes the following observations:
  -"some of the game's action sequences... resemble old arcade games"
  -"unrealistic"
  -"The single-player 
 mission goals often seem contrived or repetitive"
  -"you can expect to kill more than 1,500 [enemies] during the campaign"
  Forgetting for one moment 
 that the same could be said of Doom and Quake II, two of the greatest and most venerable shooters 
 of all time, let's put this in perspective. In 2001, GameSpot named as Game of the Year... are you 
 ready? Serious Sam. Serious Sam! Twenty hours of shooting endlessly at two hundred billion aliens. 
 Talk about an arcade-style rail shooter. And that game wasn't near as fun as BHD! Does anyone else 
 detect any kind of stupefying hypocrisy? (For true ironic value, the GS review of BHD also says 
 "the solo campaign is hard to take seriously." Nice.)
  When Serious Sam won (read: inexplicably stole) the 2001 GoY award, it beat out Commandos 2, Return 
 to Castle Wolfenstein, Civilization III (!) , Operation Flashpoint, Black & White, and MAX PAYNE! 
 And now they knock _BHD_ for being unrealistic?!
  In fairness to the GS reviewer, he does admit that "if you're looking for a simple, old-fashioned 
 shooter, you may enjoy parts of it," but even that is too harsh. If that's what you're looking 
 for, youll enjoy most (if not all) of it.
  True, the graphics aren't bleeding-edge, but that is what it is. Unreal II looked phenomenal, and 
 I had way less fun playing it.
  BHD's main flaw is its horrible AI, for which I really have no excuse. But an incredibly fun shooter 
 with one main flaw is something I can certainly live with, and something that deserves much better 
 than a 5.6. (And I don't mind bad AI on the Somali side, considering that in the real battle, 19 
 Americans were killed for about 1000 Somalis.) But ultimately, Black Hawk Down is a very light, 
 frenetic arcade-style shooter that IS unrealistic... but a ton of fun to play. If GameSpot is going 
 to knock this game for its lack of "reality" (remember that it is a GAME) , they should first denounce 
 95% of all the other shooters ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trinfan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2003 6:23 pm PT
Review:  The key thing to keep in mind about BHD is that most people buy it for the multiplayer, not the 
 single player. Novalogic does single player well enough, but it doesn't excell like Soldier of 
 Fortune II or Medal of Honor. But they really shine in multiplayer where they provide enough good 
 material to keep many people playing it 20 or more hours a week. Novalogic couldn't make smart 
 enemy AI to save their lives, but human players make up for that lack online. I was shocked at 
 the low score for the Gamespot BHD review when Gamespot reviews of previous Delta Force games have 
 gotten reasonable high scores and the single player for BHD is actually better than in the previous 
 games. I think the review should take into account things like the fact that BHD CTF includes multiple 
 flags and Progressive Spam Points placed at strategic places over the map which make for excting 
 game play while games like Soldier of Fortune II have only one flag per side placed at the enemy's 
 respawn. That is so boring you might as well just play TDM. Its obvious the reviewer never played 
 the stock CTF maps with 10 or more people online because they are mostly CQB and medium range gunning, 
 with very little s****ing. If the reviewer was getting raped at the respawn, he must not be a very 
 good player if he couldn't figure out a way to stop or avoid it. And the reviewer was wrong when 
 he said the Black Hawk Down was based on a novel. It started as a newspaper series by Mark Bowden 
 and then eventually got published as a NON-FICTION book. As far as I'm concerned the BHD game does 
 gets the feel of the book and movie right and is a worthy testament to our soldiers past, present, 
 and future. 
  
  Trinfan*Zero*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RorqualMaru
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2003 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Like many of the reviewers have noted, I customarily put great stock in Gamespot's reviews - but 
 not in this case. I read the review by Parker and watched the Kasavin video review. The focus seems 
 to be on what Black Hawk Down isn't - it isn't Splinter Cell, Ghost Recon or Rainbow Six. I've 
 played those games and, frankly, I'm no big fan of the gameplay. Crawling through grass for half 
 an hour only to get shot in the head by an enemy I never saw is not my idea of fun. Guys, Black 
 Hawk Down doesn't pretend to be or want to be those games. It wants to be an action shooter which 
 captures the intensity and drama of the source material - and on that count it succeeds admirably! 
 Good job Novalogic!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordsArmy
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 28, 2003 12:21 pm PT
Review:  OK... you can blame the Unreal series for this one. This game, by most peoples standars has great 
 graphics, but compared to UT2003 they are horible. The gameplay is decent, but that is expected 
 in a FPS. I mean if it has crappy gameplay it shouldn't be released in the first place right? (ie. 
 God and Generals) So after you look at the gameplay (wich should be good if its being released) 
 that leaves things like sound, multi player options, good story (if there is one) and-most importantly-GRAPHICS. 
 Some may not agree with me, but in a FPS I think the grphics make all the differance. BHD's aren't 
 that horrible but, again, compared to UT2003... strike that... there is no comparison. That said... 
 it is an enjoyable game. And as I always say... if your a fan of the genre you'll probably have 
 fun. But is it worth the money? I say no. I returned my copy after one time through the singel 
 player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2003 6:52 pm PT
Review:  A great FPS that finally revives the DF franchise after the very disappointing LW & TFD games. 
 Novalogic has done an excellent job of capturing the flavor of Operation Restore Hope (one can't 
 help but remember the courage and sacrifice our troops made to actually perform in this environment) . 
 In the missions that feature it, BHD is the best example I've seen of a ruined third world city 
 envrionment with many non-combatents mixed in with the baddies, represented in a PC game. The other 
 missions offer a good variety and while the graphics may not be state of the art-they are very 
 good and way ahead of any previous DF title. As usual in the DF series; one of the big attractions 
 is the wide open expanses of many of the maps; giving the flavor of really being out doors. The 
 BHD MP experiance tends to be a very much run & gun blast fest; with the added attraction of being 
 killed by unseen s****er adversaries from great range. All in all; a most satisfying game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramid
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2003 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I just started playing this game and what a surprise it was. The graphics are beautifull and the 
 sound and music is spot on. I've only played the single player missions, because I'm not really 
 a multiplayer fan. The single player missions reminded me of my own military training, intense, 
 confusing, exciting and pretty grim at some times. Especially the friend or foe aspect of this 
 game is awesome, there are some big firefights in this game with all the action and explosions 
 you could ask for, and it doesn't really help you're own orientation (just like the real thing) .
 
  
  PLay it ! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
