-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Demigod
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/demigod/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Deceptively deep, addictive fun.
 Different demigods have interesting, unique abilities.
 Great music and sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Major online connectivity problems.
 No tutorial or story-based campaign.
 Only eight arenas.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 15, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 261 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Stardock
Developer: Gas Powered Games
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Apr 14, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Online connection issues and a dearth of content keep this fun hybrid game from reigning supreme. 
 

  Demigod is an action role-playing/real-time strategy hybrid that is notable for both what it does -- and 
 what it doesn't do. It  does  offers an addictive, click-happy gameplay model that combines elements 
 of two genres into an appealing, competition-focused package. As one of eight demigods, you join 
 either the forces of light or the forces of darkness and exert your hammer-swinging, spellcasting 
 prowess, all while streams of AI-controlled reinforcements rush at each other on predetermined 
 paths. If you're familiar with the popular Warcraft III modification Defense of the Ancients, you'll 
 have an idea of what to expect here, even if the details and nuances don't correlate perfectly. 
 Demigod  doesn't  offer what you would expect from a full retail product. Without any story-based 
 single-player campaign, the intriguing backstory and heaven-gone-haywire atmosphere go disappointingly 
 unexplored. Worse yet, online connection issues may alienate the game's target audience of competitive 
 tacticians. It's too bad, because Demigod is a good-looking, great-sounding game that has all the 
 right ingredients; it just can't quite combine them into a complete meal.  

        var shown = false; function syncRoadBlock (adTag) { if ( shown ) return; 

  On the surface, 
 Demigod plays simply: you choose from one of eight hero characters called demigods, and you and 
 your fellow deities (either other players or the generally smart artificial intelligence) attack 
 the opposition in a mouse-centric scheme reminiscent of action RPGs like Diablo. Additionally, 
 you might cast elemental attack spells, perform healing buffs, summon minions to do your bidding, 
 swipe at enemies with your sharp demon claws, and more, all depending on which demigod you select. 
 There are two types of demigods. Assassins are solo warriors, geared toward direct damage, while 
 generals can summon troops to aid them in their cause. Because you manage only one unit, playing 
 as an assassin is akin to playing an action RPG, though each assassin plays quite differently from 
 the others and offers even more variety within its own skill tree. For example, Unclean Beast specializes 
 not only in fast melee damage, but also in damage over time, spitting poisonous goo on foes or 
 emanating an ooze that diseases nearby foes -- but reduces his own health as well. The Beast's skill 
 tree opens up a number of possibilities, and as you level up during the match (a quick progression, 
 as befits the generally quick matches) , you'll choose from several paths. If you like spitting 
 poison, you can focus in that area, but you could potentially disregard that range of spells entirely 
 and focus instead on your frenzy skill, which unleashes melee mayhem for a limited period of time. 
 Or, of course, you can combine them in ways that befit your play style and benefit your team's 
 needs.  

  Playing as a general requires a bit more battlefield strategy, allowing you to summon minions to 
 aid your cause. This entails more micromanagement (but not much) , and it also makes these demigods 
 more flexible. To summon minions, you equip idols, though you can possess only three at a time. 
 There are multiple idols (and therefore companion types) available, so you can choose which minions 
 will accompany you in battle. As with assassins, each general brings various nuances to the battlefield, 
 which in turn leads to more variety than you might perceive at first glance. The paladin called 
 Oak can place a flag on the battlefield that summons the ghosts of defeated reinforcements in its 
 radius to rise and fight, while the healer Sedna can conjure trolls. The gameplay requires a bit 
 more finesse when you're playing as an assassin, but it's still satisfyingly addictive.  

           Online play is incredibly rewarding...      

  Your upgrades aren't limited to spell 
 trees, however. At your team's base, you can purchase a variety of gear and items that let you 
 further tailor your strengths or assuage your weaknesses -- and even apply universal upgrades that 
 benefit your entire team. As you play, you earn gold by killing other demigods and capturing flags 
 that control nearby gold nodes. In turn, you purchase equipment that improves armor stats, health 
 regeneration, movement speed, and so on; consumables like teleport scrolls and health items; more 
 expensive damage and buff items called artifacts; and fortress upgrades that, for example, increase 
 the amount of experience team members receive or that improve the amount of damage defensive towers 
 do.  

  This sounds complex, but the options come in a pleasing trickle, so they aren't as overwhelming 
 as they sound. As matches progress, you'll return to base from time to time (either by foot travel, 
 teleport, or, sadly, death) , make a few purchases, and return to the fray. Nevertheless, you'll 
 need to make tactical decisions based on how you prefer to play and to make up for potential weaknesses. 
 Perhaps those speed-enhancing boots aren't your first choice of gear, but if crossbow master Regulus 
 is on your heels, you may appreciate the boost. And you can't discount the strategic value of the 
 AI-controlled reinforcements that flow from the portals on the map. These grunt armies make the 
 battles feel even more epic, for when enemy grunts meet, chaos often follows -- as do more possibilities 
 for the warring demigods. Not only are they the best source of experience points, but they even 
 have great value as damage-doers if you take advantage of their predetermined routes. It's a pleasant 
 balance: simple, addicting, and flashy fantasy battles in one corner, and flexible, strategic progression 
 in the other.  

  This mix provides an excellent, if not quite original, basis for some enjoyably anarchic battles. 
 Demigod is tailored for competitive play, and online battles should, in theory, provide an unending 
 tug of war between the forces of light and darkness. A semipersistent multiplayer mode called The 
 Pantheon lets you earn favor points for your faction, and you can participate in one-off skirmishes 
 with others. The big problem? Online play was barely functional at the game's launch, apparently 
 due to the peer-to-peer networking mechanism that drives it. Connecting to other players takes 
 an inordinately long time, if it happens at all. A connection dialogue window indicates which player 
 is connected to whom, and there are invariably multiple players who cannot connect to others. As 
 a result, the larger the match, the less likely you are to actually play. Furthermore, the game 
 client may hang should you try to exit while the game attempts to connect players, leading to an 
 unhandled exception error dialogue (and a game reboot) . Connection issues are widespread, which 
 is a disastrous blow in a game that requires online play to be of much value.  

           ... if you can actually get into a game.      

  If you look for solace in Demigod's 
 single-player offering, be aware that there is no story campaign to get lost in, only skirmishes 
 and a tournament mode, which is essentially a series of ranked matches against the AI. Granted, 
 the gameplay is intrinsically fun, the various demigods offer variety, and the number of options 
 you can tweak help keep offline battles fresh. Yet with only eight maps to explore, you will soon 
 long for a real campaign to flesh out the game's god-versus-god mythology, which is absolutely 
 brimming with possibilities. The colorful visuals and fantastic sound effects merge wonderfully 
 and make the battles between minor deities seem oddly authentic. The pounding of drums, the calls 
 of wood flutes, and even the strum you hear when mousing over the game menus contribute to the 
 atmosphere of polytheistic bloodlust. Leaving this rich milieu unexplored by a true narrative is 
 an unfortunate oversight, particularly in a game this light on features. And while Demigod is relatively 
 easy to learn, the lack of a tutorial of any kind will further leave newcomers cold and makes the 
 game seem even more stripped.  

  In Demigod, the moment-to-moment gameplay is relatively simple. However, the varying play styles 
 of each demigod, as well as the numerous tactical upgrades and items, offer fulfilling strategic 
 breadth. Nevertheless, this is an overly streamlined package that doesn't hit all of the marks 
 it should. Newcomers to this type of gameplay will bemoan its limited single-player options; competition-focused 
 tacticians will be frustrated by crippling connection difficulties and will long for more arenas. 
 It's a shame that these flaws are so conspicuous, because Demigod has an addictive and rewarding 
 foundation that should have had more (and more-functional) features built upon it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bimble
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 8:10 am PT
Review:  Brief summary: I really enjoy Demigod so far. I could see complaining a bit about it needing more 
 content, but I feel I'm getting my money's worth out of the content included at release, and expect 
 more in eventual patches anyway. I'm patient, and with different builds possible for each hero, 
 I'm not going to run out of ways to play anytime soon.
  
  Demigod is a game that is a clone of DotA, a map style that was created and nurtured for play with 
 Warcraft 3. For DotA players a quick summary of differences to expect (everyone else skip ahead, 
 I'll cover all this in more detail) : 8 heroes (as opposed to the fifty billion in DotA) , eight 
 maps at release, and four game modes. Four of the heroes summon and control multiple minions and 
 have more support abilities than you're used to. Hero advancement is bit more complex, giving you 
 a tree you spend points on to gain and improve abilities along with passive buffs. The items you 
 can buy are plentiful, but there are no recipes. The goals on maps are more flexible than usual 
 DotA maps - you still have more than one path to the enemy base, but there are side objectives 
 you can capture that will give your side a buff (experience gain boost, more money, more health, 
 an artifact shop, etc.) . So on the whole, if you're willing to spend the money, I think Demigod 
 has a lot to offer over DotA, unless you've already dedicated yourself to learning every single 
 hero and recipe combination in DotA, which I admit I could never be bothered to do. Still, if you're 
 cash-strapped you might wait for the price to come down, since DotA is free and runs on WC3 (which 
 is cheaper to pick up) . In short, I like Demigod more than DotA, since it's easier to get into 
 (fewer heroes to learn and no arcane recipes and vendors to work out) , and the maps offer a little 
 more opportunity for strategy in targeting objectives. And because I love zooming in on Rook and 
 watching the walking fortress beat the snot out of puny humanoids who dare to get in his way.
 
  
  So! For anyone else curious about the game, a more general description: In Demigod you control 
 a, well, demigod. The backstory isn't important, but is short and grand (you seek to win a tournament 
 against other demigods so you can become a full-fledged god) . Game perspective is overhead, like 
 most RTS games. Matches take place on maps that offer multiple paths to the enemy base, along with 
 various objectives you can capture or ignore along the way. The paths are littered with defenses 
 that belong to either side, so to get from your base to the enemy you will generally have to assault 
 multiple defenses to clear them. While you're doing this, of course, the enemy is pushing toward 
 your base, so you'll probably spend some time trying to clear them away from your defenses too. 
 Along with your hero, and the heroes of your enemies and teammates, your side has portals that 
 spawn reinforcements in waves that will run along set paths, assisting you and attacking any enemies 
 and enemy defenses they run up against.
  
  It's worth noting at this point that apart from some bells and whistles, I have just described 
 the entirety of the game. That's the playstyle. It's probably something you'd want to try to see 
 if you like it, but the DotA maps I mentioned that inspired Demigod have enough of a following 
 that you will probably enjoy it if you enjoy competitions in games at all (though you can just 
 play cooperatively against computer opponents) . The basic game concept is a pretty simple one, 
 but the same is true of the Unreal Tournament games - you get everything up front, and from the 
 first map you play you'll pretty much be able to use everything the game has to offer. The game's 
 longevity will depend entirely on how much you enjoy controlling a demigod and navigating a hostile 
 map to get to the other side. If you're on the fence after this review, I'm sure they'll have a 
 demo out eventually that would let you try it out (and I'm not going too far out on a limb by saying 
 that if you only get to play one hero on one map in one game mode in the demo, it will still give 
 a fair impression of how you would like the game overall) .
  
  Single player options include a basic skirmish (pick a map, a hero, a game mode, and go) and a 
 tournament mode (where you play a series of maps, trying to earn enough points from victories and 
 good performance on them that you beat all the AIs and become a god) . Multiplayer includes the 
 ability to set up or join a game (choosing the map and mode and all that) , a skirmish button to 
 let you jump into a random game someone is hosting, and the pantheon mode. Pantheon is a persistent 
 multiplayer tournament in which you choose a side (Forces of Light or Forces of Darkness) and a 
 hero, then compete in maps as much as you like while the pantheon runs. On the game's website is 
 a page that keeps track of the pantheon status - how many points each side has earned and which 
 players have contributed the most to their side. Once one side or the other reaches their points 
 goal (the first pantheon started a couple days ago and is 25% done, so this one will last a bit 
 over a week) , the tournament ends and a new one will begin. It's a decent approach to a ladder 
 tournament - there's still individual rankings, but more casual players still get to be part of 
 a larger cause.
  
  Now, to expand a bit on the bells and whistles I mentioned, that complicate the competition and 
 let skill play a good part. First, there is the matter of your demigod. There are 8 demigods (or 
 "heroes") to choose from when you start a game. Four of them are "assassin" type heroes, whose 
 abilities emphasize the hero's active participation in the fights, either in melee or at range. 
 The other four are "general" type heroes, who summon and control minions and have mostly support 
 abilities (they usually still need to get embroiled in combat, but have the option to send in their 
 minions and support them with abilities from the rear) . As the match progresses and your hero is 
 involved in more enemy kills (both reinforcements and heroes) , as well as objective captures or 
 enemy defense destruction, your hero gains experience. Gain enough experience and you gain a level 
 (up to 20 in a game, and you always start a game at level 1) . At level one, and each time you gain 
 a level, you get a point you can allocate in your skill tree. This could give you a new ability, 
 make a current ability more powerful, or give you an aura or a passive buff. You don't get enough 
 points to make every ability powerful, so your best bet is to play around with a hero enough to 
 decide what abilities you would want to use the most, then make sure that you allocate skill points 
 accordingly. So while there may be more than one person playing the Rook hero on a map, they might 
 have very different skills - one might be laying down defensive towers left and right, while another 
 might have ignored that ability and put points into stronger melee abilities for the hero instead. 
 The skill trees mean that some heroes start out feeling weak but get much more powerful as they 
 level, while others start fairly strong but can feel weaker as a match progresses and other heroes 
 catch up. It also means that it can take a few games with a hero before you find a point allocation 
 that complements your playstyle.
  
  Your starting area includes an item shop, and you gain gold as the game progresses - some from 
 killing enemy heroes, and some just comes in a steady stream of income from any gold mines your 
 side controls. The item shop's offerings include consumables (potions for health and mana, teleport 
 scrolls, hexes for foes, and the like) , armor (you have five armor slots on your character, and 
 armor has various abilities and buffs on it, for both assassin-style play and general-style minion 
 buffing) , and idols, which are general-specific and determine the power of the generic minions 
 they can summon (while every general has an ability in their tree to summon a unique unit type, 
 all can summon, with the right idols, a batch of warriors, archers, and healers) . Most maps also 
 include an artifact shop, either in the starting area or that your side can capture during the 
 game. Artifacts cost a lot more money and have more powerful effects (either on-use with a cooldown, 
 or a passive buff) . Like skills, the items you buy your hero can have a huge effect on your power 
 and playstyle. During beta, for example, Regulus was a hero who was fairly well-balanced against 
 the others unless you got him certain items or artifacts - then he became godlike (if they didn't 
 balance that better before release, hopefully they will soon) . To give an example, gloves could 
 give you a simple bonus to your weapon damage, or could add to your minions' attack speed, or, 
 at the most expensive level, give your hero a bonus to damage, attack speed, and a 25% chance to 
 hit two enemies in one swing. The items and artifacts offered are the same on every map right now.
 
  
  Along with item and artifact shops, your citadel acts as a money sink too. You can buy upgrades 
 for your side at the citadel, some to buff reinforcements, some to buff your defensive buildings, 
 and some to buff your side's heroes. Some upgrades add new types of reinforcements to your spawns, 
 and a couple even add new weapons to some building types. The citadel upgrades only become available 
 over time (based on your side's "war rank") , so you can't buy the most powerful upgrades right 
 away, only in the course of a longer game. Thus, another choice you must make in a game's ongoing 
 strategy is whether you want to spend your gold on improving your hero and/or its minions, or on 
 the citadel to boost your team's war effort.
  
  Scattered throughout a map are flags that can be captured by either side to control some buildings 
 and buffs. Some offer haste or experience bonuses, health and mana bonuses, or boosts to reinforcements. 
 Others allow control of new gold mines or reinforcement portals. Indeed, every reinforcement portal 
 on the map has an associated flag, and your side starts with some of those already captured and 
 spawning reinforcements. Some maps will have neutral portals in the map's middle that either side 
 can fight over. So while you can certainly help your side by destroying enemy defenses (which do 
 not respawn once destroyed) , you can also help them by capturing flags that give your side a boost 
 or add more reinforcements to harass the enemy. And while you can press directly for victory objectives 
 (like destroying the enemy citadel) , you can also seek to capture the enemy's portals to severely 
 hamper their effort (and to boost yours, as you gain reinforcements right near the enemy base) .
 
  
  At the end of a map you receive recognition for accomplishments like killing the most enemy heroes 
 or buying the most citadel upgrades, and those can earn you extra favor points. Favor points are 
 awarded to your profile, and are spent on favor items that any of your heroes can select (one per 
 game, and once selected, you're stuck with that favor item the whole game) . The cheapest favor 
 items provide a boost to vision range or health. The more expensive ones provide on-use effects 
 that can substitute for some consumables you might otherwise purchase (like a cloak that can be 
 used to provide a mana recovery aura, or an item that can be used like a recall scroll to teleport 
 you to a building your side controls) . None of them are game-breaking, but they give you something 
 to strive for (as it takes a lot of favor points to buy them all) , and can help compensate for 
 some heroes' weaknesses (Rook is a slower-moving hero, for example, so one might choose as a favor 
 item in a match an item that boosts movement speed, or the teleportation item to get him back into 
 the fray more quickly if he dies) .
  
  There are four game modes: Conquest (destroy the enemy's citadel) , Dominate (capture objective 
 flags to earn points over time and be the first to reach the point goal) , Slaughter (be the side 
 that kills a certain number of enemy heroes first) , and Fortress (destroy the enemy's fortresses, 
 which are defensive buildings scattered around the map) . The game's roots in DotA show in that 
 the reinforcements pretty much spawn and path such that their goal is clearly the destruction of 
 the enemy's citadel, Conquest-style. Fortunately the other game styles are still fun and work well 
 despite the reinforcements (might have been nice if you could redirect them somehow to target an 
 enemy fortress, or to path to hotly contested flags) . The eight maps included with the release 
 work with any game mode, though it looks like some might be better with some modes than others 
 (I'd think larger maps would work better with Fortress than smaller ones, for example) .
  
  You can control almost every aspect of the game when assigning settings for custom games. Not only 
 can you choose the map and game mode, and fill out slots with AIs, but you can also change reinforcement 
 strength and spawn rate, the rate at which heroes gain gold and experience, how strong buildings 
 are, whether or not favor items can be used, how long you're stuck waiting if you die for a respawn, 
 whether or not fog of war covers areas you don't control or have units near, game speed, number 
 of timeouts available, and a bit more besides. Always nice to have options.
  
  The graphics are excellent, even if they do suffer a bit from having a more gritty color palette 
 - lots of grays and browns. The game uses the Supreme Commander engine, so it handles the swarm 
 of units on maps pretty well. You can zoom in real close to micromanage a hero and minions, or 
 zoom way out to get an overview of which flags your side controls, what defenses are up, and where 
 forces are concentrated. Maps are basically huge platforms of varied shapes, sometimes a solid 
 block, other times a series of floating platforms connected by bridges. It makes for nice atmosphere, 
 but most of the time you'll be zoomed in watching the fights.
  
  The developer has said there will be at least two more heroes released as free additions to the 
 game, and I would expect more maps as well. I don't know if mod support will be added later, but 
 the mod support in Supreme Commander was quite good so it would surprise me if they didn't at least 
 add it in an expansion.
  
  It's worth noting that the game's copy protection is handled by Stardock's Impulse (one-time online 
 authentication, doesn't have to connect again after that) , and that the online matchmaking for 
 Demigod is done through Impulse as well - the first game to really rely on it. Hopefully it will 
 stand the pressure, it was certainly put through its paces in the beta. Like Steam, Impulse adds 
 a shift-tab interface that lets you check your friends list and chat, though Impulse has a communal 
 chat interface that acts and looks like IRC, letting you see what EVERYONE logged into Impulse 
 is saying in the main channel, or letting you make a new channel and join it with friends. The 
 chat is a bit busy at times, but I admit it could make for more of a community for online players 
 of the game, making it easy to discuss strategy, get help, or talk people into repeat matches.
 
  
  Gameplay for me has been pretty bug-free so far, but I also haven't really played online (just 
 single-player, still trying to hash out strategies) . Some people have complained about problems 
 with the code that's supposed to handle playing from behind a NAT, and I've noticed that when the 
 multiplayer authentication servers are down you just get a "bad username/password" response back 
 when the game client should be telling you that it just can't reach the servers. And while there 
 are probably some balance issues between heroes, they haven't been so glaring that I've noticed 
 them yet in my admittedly short time playing (one is not going to discover every nuance of a game 
 in two days) . Sometimes I've been aghast at how powerful an enemy hero seems, then played that 
 hero in another game and realized what ability it had been using that I hadn't been compensating 
 for. Example: If the general hero Oak spends a game never seeming to be take damage, it's probably 
 because he has an ability that lets him and his minions regain health and mana for everything he 
 kills - making him a better target when you don't have a lot of minions and reinforcements around 
 to feed him. Move your minions away (if you have any) while you strike him with your hero, and 
 you stand a better chance of bringing him down (though it will still be hard, since he's a defense-oriented 
 hero) .
  
  A game usually lasts a half hour to an hour, depending on the map and game mode. And they're really 
 fun. You can get plenty of variety out of changing heroes, changing skill point allocations, and 
 picking new combinations of items for your heroes. I'm enjoying it and don't expect to get tired 
 of it real soon (and even when I inevitably do, I could see coming back to it from time to time 
 for quick matches, like I do with Unreal Tournament 3, to continue that comparison from earlier) . 
 The developer has done an excellent job of taking a well-liked playstyle from a Warcraft 3 map 
 and basing a more focused game around it, showing off what you can add to it when you use an engine 
 dedicated to that game type rather than building it on top of a more generic engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanco
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  Demigod's single player content is a little on the light side for a $40 game. You have the tournament, 
 which are 8 battles with different objectives. Each battle takes around 15 mins, so theoretically 
 you can 'beat' the game in 2-3 hours. However, each of the 8 demigods plays quite differently, 
 so another play-through with a different demigod will give quite a different experience, especially 
 with the Generals. You also have skirmish mode, which plays out quite differently than the tournament 
 even though it's the same game, the bots seem more capable and gold/xp is harder to come by. I 
 would probably value the single player at $30. Up to you whether the extra $10 is a big deal.
 
  
  There are two problems with getting to grips with this game in the beginning. There is no in-game 
 tutorial, and the manual really doesn't cover what you need to know. As a result, it's likely your 
 first game will be somewhat frustrating. For example, when buying stuff at the shop, the game does 
 not go to a paused state, it keeps going. The shop probably has 60-70 items, each with its own 
 stats and use, so you will be reading the details while the announcer is saying, "The enemy has 
 captured a flag!" The end result is just buying stuff willy nilly. This is also true when leveling 
 your demigod and buying global upgrades. To get around this, go into game options and set speed 
 to variable, then with the minus key on the keypad, set speed to -10. It's not exactly pause, but 
 this trick will at least let you read the text and decide what to do/buy. (The plus button will 
 speed the game back up.)
  
  I'm used to playing 1v1 skirmish matches, but don't do that in Demigod. 1v1 turns into an elaborate 
 whack-a-mole game that the computer is exceedingly good at, and the game will drag on and on. 2v2 
 or 3v3 results in a game that ends in a reasonable amount of time.
  
  The game is actually fun once you understand it, so slow the game down when you have a decision 
 to make, put some AI on your side, and after 2-3 games, you should have a good understanding of 
 what's going on. Too bad there isn't a tutorial to ease the learning curve.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamereviewer2k
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 4:27 am PT
Review:  First off, I gotta give props to Gas Powered Games for pulling off the first DotA clone. As some 
 may know it is based of a Warcraft 3 mod called "Defense of the Ancients" which was also designed 
 partly from a Starcraft campaign. Demigod is not as "deep" as DotA's wide array characters and 
 RPG elements but it does a good job in simplifiying it so the learning curve isn't as steep.
  It is a very attractive game with creative and detailed character models. It has definitely addictive 
 and fun tournament-styel gameplay . . . once a game can get started.
  
  I would've gave this game a 9.5 but since I've been playing this during the Beta version, I thought 
 the simple (or should I say... most noteable) bugs would be fixed by now... mainly the network issues 
 and character path finding. It actually seemed that I successfully connected to more games online 
 in the Beta compared to this Final Release. This final release build has a horrible "player network 
 synching" issue that plagues the start-up of game during player match-up. Of course, there are 
 some of the typical network hiccups during a game but I've only noticed a few and rarely experienced 
 extended hiccups.
  
  There are a few other trivial bugs that don't bother me but the other main one that gets me is 
 the path finding/collision detection. Your player will occasionally get temporarily stuck along 
 a curved wall and while even chasing after an opponent - until you keep force moving your player 
 (clicking mouse several times to get around or through) . And that can get frustrating especially 
 when you are about to kill the guy with a sliver of health left.
  
  Few may not give it as high a rating as I would have but these are the types of games I especially 
 enjoy and will be it's worst critic if the game wasn't enjoyable.... once it gets started. Even 
 though there are bugs this game is totally playable and worth playing. I'm not sure if there is 
 a demo out but with the couple bugs fixed... this will be one of the top tactical RTS hybrids this 
 year. 
  If you want a good old tournament-style PVP/RTS/RPG type game then you will definitely get your 
 fill with this... once a game can get started. (Did I say that already?? LOL) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuiopy
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 16, 2009 2:14 am PT
Review:  I am very disappointed about Demigod... I don't know why but I expected ti be more interesting, 
 with much more action and special effects... be size the demigod which you control the game is 
 much more playing it's self... truly disappointed... maybe if it were more classic... like to build 
 some constructions, or control your army... or just make your army... but there are 2 portals... and 
 they just come and come.... it's very boring just to watch the battle ... you just go there in the 
 field and make some spells... that's it... BOOOOOOOORING... I'd wish the makers of this game to be 
 more creative.. to make you play this game non-stop.. I just play for maximum 1h and then I getting 
 out... the game it's repeting.... I am sorry for those who loved Demigod but in my opinion it sucks... 
 no action.. no effect... no nothing that can attract you... sorry guys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaradakar
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 1:07 am PT
Review:  Kevin seems to think the game too stream lined and I have to disagree. In my opinion the game is 
 perfectly paced! It builds and builds escalating in a huge battle that always ends in a climax. 
 The game gives you your Diablo fix (easy to control, skill trees, and constant leveling up) mixed 
 with the competitiveness of a RTS (Strategy, map control, destroy base) along with a large dash 
 of Tower Defense ( you have to work towards taking down enemy towers before you can assault their 
 Fortress) . 
  
  Your normal RTS market I think has gone stagnate, and I think the vast majority of people are not 
 good at those games -- they just have too much micro management. Demigod strikes the perfect balance 
 and keeps you totally addicted as you are constantly leveling up, buying gear and smashing face.
 
  
  They've managed to make a game that is simple to play but hard to master which while the goal of 
 most games -- unfortunately most games fail to do so. Any new player can quickly get into the action 
 and FEEL like a god (okay demigod) very quickly.
  
  I think it can be easy at first glance to think O' this is too easy but those people are missing 
 the nuances of the game, it does take skill to be good. Yes, it's easy to take the Rook and go 
 and smash things. But if you know what you're doing it's also easy to take him down (and avoid 
 his big hammer smash) . The game is a race and it takes skill to level up quickly. 
  
  
  8 Maps is more than DoW2 had on release and to me it's not about quantity but quality (as Valve 
 and others have done with TF2) . Also again, knowing Stardock and GPG's reputation we will see some 
 downloadable content soon enough.
  
  While there are only 8 Heroes they each have a huge amount of depth and can be min/maxed in different 
 ways via how you spend your skill points along with what gear you purchase. Some powers are good 
 for long ranged attacks, some are good for AOE, some better suited towards other Demigods, some 
 are interrupts to stop potions or teleports while others are best suited for sieging towers and 
 breaking defences. Bottom line, it's fairly balanced for just being released. As above, the rumor 
 is that 2 more Demigods plan to arrive via downloadable content in the future.
  
  Tutorial, I'll agree that they did drop the ball here and it is missed. Not everyone likes to jump 
 into the deep end of the pool (I do, give me everything -- I'll figure it out) . But some people 
 like to take it slow, step by step till they warm to the water. While the streamlined aspect of 
 the game helps here... it's also hampered by the lack of being able to pause and read your skill 
 tree (or EQ shop) . Along with the only down time, death also not giving you the ability to read 
 up on what gear or skills you plan to invest in.
  
  I also agree that the art, style, music, sound FX and VO are so superb that it leaves you wanting 
 to know more about this world and the characters (Demigods) that are in it. Sadly there is not 
 single player campaign that does so. But I don't think the game should lose marks here. 
  
  Most developers can not afford to split there focus and are forced to choose, Single Player -or- 
 Multiplayer. Just look at some of the previous games to be released and you'll see this; Unreal 
 Tournament, Fallout3, Bioshock, etc) . Not every developer has the luxury of of deep pocks like 
 Blizzard, so I think we're just a bit spoiled. I'd rather see a developer focus on one aspect and 
 do it well, Vs splitting there attention and risk having each aspect being mediocre .
  
  Yes, the game currently (week 1) have some connection issues, but knowing Stardock and GPG those 
 will be fixed asap. Once they are, you'll be left with just a pure addicting gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukenukem1111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 11:18 pm PT
Review:  If you have already played game to me you could see that each character divers too much. Example 
 i tried that big character Root. It was quite easy to play with it. But after few hours I found 
 that to kill heroes with him is so easy. Ant that was quite disapointing. 1 or 2 ground slams and 
 demigod is dead. 
  As I was looking at other characters Untamed beast was almost the strongest after Root. He in 2 
 min killed 11 demigods. And it was a game not in multiplayer mode. It was in tournament mode. When 
 you play with ai controlled demigod the game becomes to easy. Character powers aren't too well 
 rebalanced. But it's fine then you play 1 on 1 with ai.
  The game creators made a quite good game focusing on the characters . 
  But to me this game isn't 
 worth of playing more than 40 hours of gameplay. The same strategy of ai. Similar maps . Some annoying 
 bugs. I was waiting for this game to see ,maybe, something new. But i saw another simple game . 
 Maybe game makers will make an expansion for this game too make it more interesting.
  That's my opinion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wm_maw
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 8:33 pm PT
Review:  It is an awesome RPG multi-player game with tons of modes to play from demigod to demigod. The 
 demigods themselves have different types of playing: hit and run, stand your ground, splash attack, 
 abilities overdose, fast scout, fast flag grabber and/or holder, tower demolisher, defender, attacker... 
 simply... awesome.
  
  The idea of the game comes from DOTA. It is a DOTA dedicated game. It is fun, very few bugs. In 
 20 hours of play only one crash.
  
  
  A little description about the game:
  
  - You must choose a map from 8 sufficient arenas
  
  - You must choose a game type (dominate, 
 conquest, slaughter, fortress)
  -- dominate: hold as many flags as you can to score points or destroy enemy citadel;
  -- conquest: 
 destroy enemy citadel;
  -- slaughter: kill the selected number of demigods or destroy enemy citadel;
  -- fortress: destroy 
 enemy fortresses or destroy enemy citadel;
  -- You can customize any game type;
  
  - Select your demigod: assassin or general;
  -- Assassins:
  --- Torch Bearer (evil) : Fire and 
 Ice mage-like demigod;
  ---- ice (gives ally units faster mana regeneration) : slows enemies, delays their abilities, has 
 blizzard;
  ---- fire (gives ally units faster movement) : fireball (no splash damage) , fire burst and immolation;
 
  --- The Unclean Beast (evil) : Melee fast unit, poison-like attacks;
  --- Regulus (good) : sniper like unit;
  --- The Rook (good) : heavy demigod, hard to miss on the 
 battlefield, heavy damage;
  -- Generals [all generals control 2 minions of each (from lvl 1-4) : minotaurs, siege archers and 
 priests (6 minions total) + specific units]
  --- Oak (good) : rises spirits, paladin-like demigod;
  --- Queen of Thorns (evil) : summons creatures, 
 nature-like demigod, has 2 modes (defensive or offensive) , sexy :) ;
  --- Sedna (good) : healer, summons ice Yeti, bonus to healing to surrounding units, has silence 
 who stops some enemy special abilities;
  --- Lord Erebus (evil) : necromancer-like demigod, vampire, fast hard to catch;
  
  During the 
 game you have:
  - A skill tree;
  - 5 item slots + 3 usable slots;
  - 1 slot of favored item;
  - 3 general slots for: melee, siege and priest units (if general) ;
 
  
  
  In conclusion: a very complex game, with endless possibilities.
  
  The good parts: almost endless replayability, it sucks you in, makes you think your next move;
 
  
  The bad part: needs better intro, needs better endings, needs a campaign, the normal difficulty 
 is nevertheless same as easy, and hard is simply insane.
  
  I actually think that the computer cheats beyond the normal skill level because it bought and expensive 
 artifact from the second artifact merchant with special items, but he did not ever had that flag... 
 not to mention the insane health regeneration he has and infinite money...
  
  I like this types of game, so... it has a 9 from me.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncosfan
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  My first ten to twenty minutes of Demigod were frustrating and left me feeling like I got a different 
 game from the one I thought I was buying. I expected an RTS with RPG-like elements. What I got 
 instead was a PVP-RTS-RPG. But that turns out to be a good thing, to my surprise.
  
  The noticeable lack of a tutorial was head scratching, that is, until I realized how easy this 
 game is to learn. Seriously, after playing this game for half an hour, if you cannot figure out 
 most of the nuances, I would suggest turning in your gamer card. That's not to say that I'm attempting 
 to insult anyone. Quite simply, I doubt many people will have problems learning this game with 
 some good old fashioned trial and error.
  
  This game has almost an old fashioned feel to it, in that the learning curve is somewhat there 
 at first, but settles into a nice steady climb after less than a half hour. You will ponder for 
 a bit on how your Demigod keeps getting ganked by the opponents, until you realize that you can 
 purchase upgrades that not only boost stats but also enable you to regenerate health and mana in 
 those tough scraps. The item system is rewarding, with special items being purchasable after playing 
 matches and earning what amounts to achievement points.
  
  The combat seems overly simplified at first glance. Really, it is simple, and that is a great thing. 
 No micromanagement of units. No zerg rushes. This game is all about strategy in how you utilize 
 your resources (gold) and your special powers (demigod) . You have waves of units that are controlled 
 by the AI that amount to a push and pull between you and opponents, while you can decide to upgrade 
 a variety of features in your army at your base. Special units for each wave, gold production, 
 health and attack strength of units are just a few upgrades that can be purchased, but of course 
 choosing which to buy at what time can make all of the difference between holding onto your flags 
 while pushing into enemy territory and slowly losing your ground.
  
  Opponents of the lack of a single player story mode and a lack of tutorial can take heart that 
 the single player mode, while lacking in a good story, will help prepare you to make the jump to 
 multiplayer. While the AI is no replacement for true human opponents, you can utilize the AI opponents 
 to learn the mechanics of Demigod, as well as tweak your strategies versus a given Demigod. As 
 we speak, multiplayer is still a big issue with this game, but given Stardock's track record, I 
 see no reason why this will continue to be a problem over the long haul. This is a game that in 
 months to come will become an Arena Combat lover's dream, and likely will have many expansions 
 with new maps, new play modes, and new Demigods to crush your opponent into oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wait321
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I can't believe the developers didn't put in a tutorial. I played some easy skirmishes 
 to figure stuff out, but I can't help but think that I missed something. In a competitive multiplayer 
 game, they really should have detailed instructions to make sure players start on the same page.
 
  
  Anyways, the game itself is really fun. It's made exclusively for dota players, which is great 
 since real-time strategies all seem to be the same these days.
  
  However, I can see myself getting bored of it soon. The first reason is that the multiplayer is 
 a mess right now. I can't get any game with more than 3 players to finish without problems. 
  
  Second, there's not enough variety in the items and heroes. Right now everyone's just walking 
 around bashing enemies. There needs to be more strategy like long ranged strikes, super fast hit 
 and run, stealthy, etc. More items with vastly different effects would also create variety.
  
  Lastly, there needs to be more balance between the generals and the assassins. I've noticed 
 that generals almost always have the upper hand. They can gain experience without putting themselves 
 in danger and flee from battle while their minions cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jl0329
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the game itself is great. The graphic/sound/game play are all very good. As a Dota 
 player for 5+ years, I was not disappointed. As of game balance, it is still too early to tell. 
 
  
  
  The biggest drawback of this online competitive game lies in its technical issue related to online 
 play. The ONLINE PLATFORM is NOT COMPLETE nor PLAYABLE.
  
  
  P. S. Those are from my personal experiences, and if you think I am trolling, to **** with you :) 
 
  
  
  FYI, this game uses a peer-to-peer (P2P) connection method for it's online play as opposed to a 
 host-client method used by most games. In sound, P2P connection should reduce the lag/spike to 
 its minimum compared to a host-client connection, because the data is transmitted directly between 
 each player. 
  
  HOWEVER, P2P requires that each player to be able to send/receive data from each other players. 
 In reality, this doesn't work so well. From my experience, it's pretty much impossible to get a 
 5 vs 5 game going because there is always somebody that will not connect and ruin the whole game. 
 I had a about 90% success connection rate when playing 1 on 1, 70% for 2 on 2, and less than 50% 
 for 3 on 3. 
  Stardock is currently working on it, but until the came up with a real fix. The online play is 
 TERRIBLE! 
  
  As I said, the gameplay itself is actually pretty fun. That is if you can get a game going in the 
 first place. Last night, it took me an average of 20min. searching for games and 50% of the time 
 it just gives me "A player failed to connect" (something like that) and I have to do the search 
 thing all over again. It's very time consuming and it's not enjoyable. You CAN NOT even CHAT in 
 game while you are searching. 
  
  And if you think it's due to my own connection problem, please go to the game's OFFICIAL forum. 
 You will see pages of complain about the same problem. 
  
  To sum up, a competitive game that doesn't have a good online system to support it is worthless 
 imo. Maybe in the future they will fix it, but until then, I'd stay away from DEMIGOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmtec
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:20 am PT
Review:  To be honest i was kinda expecting this with great anxiousness. 
  Considering the fact that its new graphics in an old shell , with small improvements or even downgrades 
 when talking about the complexity of the game.
  
  To say this in a few words. Been there done that.
  
  It is not amazing , lets say its just 
 made for multiplayer gaming. The single player variety is ... soar ... and unsatisfactory. In other 
 words you get bored pretty fast.
  
  If you plan on getting in for the sake of playing online (which is the game's purpose ... like 
 'doh) or LAN parties with friends , this game becomes very fun. I for one love playing it with 
 my friends.
  
  All in all , if you are a DOTA fan , and do agree that genre , this game is pretty cool , and has 
 fancy graphics to cope with the things that i somewhat lacking.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genozstriker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Demigod turned out to be exactly as I wanted it to be. DIFFERENT. I have been playing Dota for 
 five years, that is longer than most professional Dota have and before certain terms such as denying 
 and last hitting even existed. The last thing I wanted was for Demigod to be a Dota 2.0. I wanted 
 a game that takes the style to a different direction, not a further direction. 
  
  Stardock and Gas Powered Games have done exactly that. What they did was take the basics of what 
 is an AOS map and implemented features from games such as Diablo, Company of Heroes and Dawn of 
 War.
  
  The gameplay is basic, you control a Demigod and you have to destroy the enemies main building. 
 But to do that you have to go through lanes defending by towers and take down enemy creep waves 
 as they approach. Just like you, the opposing team will also have it's Demigod defending it and 
 trying to destroy your main. You could say that at the moment it is a bit to simplistic.
  
  The Demigods move similar to Diablo where your character is centered and you have to left click 
 the units for you Demigods to attack or the area for him to move there.
  
  Skills trees are familiar in RPG games and Demigod also uses a skill tree.
  
  The main building, 
 towers and shops are all there but where the Company of Heroes and Dawn of War feature comes along 
 is the flag capturing. Just like COH and DOW, where you capture post for supply and ammunition, 
 your resources and boost comes from capturing flag. So if you want to get an advantage over your 
 opponent and not stay at a disadvantage you have to capture the flags and defend it.
  
  Graphics wise the game looks good, just don't expect Crysis graphics because the game was made 
 to be played on affordable PC's. So despite the graphics not being the best there are I can understand 
 why. Regardless of that the visuals are still stunning and the effects of spells are well done.
 
  
  I like the cheesy-lines the Demigod say in the game although it can get a bit annoying, but you 
 will be able to live with it. The background music is also something you can live with. They obviously 
 didn't hire expensive help for it. 
  
  Overall Demigod is a fun and easy game that you can pick up and star playing. Stardock is known 
 to be very supportive of it's game, so after five years you can expect people to still be playing 
 it as updates, downloadable content and expansion packs will be released. Their old games till 
 now are still receiving updates and expansion packs with people playing them.
  
  If you have never played this style of RPG it's definitely worth checking out. If you are familiar 
 with or play Dota, then it will really depend on you. If expect this game to be Dota 2.0 then this 
 is not the game for you, but if you just want something different then it won't hurt to try it 
 and you might like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bramann
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 8:48 pm PT
Review:  One of the best features of Warcraft 3 was the value placed on the "Hero" character and your ability 
 to add items and upgrade spells. Demigod takes that feature and makes it as creative and massive 
 as any game before it.
  
  The best part of the upgrade interface is it feeds directly into the pace of the game. The action 
 continues even as you decide what path to take your Demigod. This may seem frustrating or overwhelming 
 at the beginning, but once you settle into the game (about the 2 hour mark for me) you quickly 
 learn the paths that best suit your style of playing. In addition to abilities and spells, you 
 can also upgrade and customize your Demigod with a series of items from the Item shop, as well 
 as Favor items, earned through the course of battle. All of these features are unique to the 8 
 Demigod's you pick from - so the options seem endless.
  
  This game captures the essence of all RTS that have come before it, minus the stale and routine 
 build-up phase in the first 20 minutes of the skirmish. No peons to order around, no building tree's 
 to learn, just straight out battles.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone looking for a fast paced, moderately complex, start it up 
 and kill type of game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixfirebrandxi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 6:42 pm PT
Review:  So i just went out and purchased the game demigod thinking it would be an alright dota clone. Boy 
 was i wrong! This is a fantastic game which incorporates strategy, rpg, and dota games all into one. 
 The basic premise of the game is u pick a hero, get items, and kill other heros until u kill their 
 citadel. You only control one hero, so the main focus is to keep him alive. The action and gameplay 
 is fast and smooth, the graphics are clean and crisp, and the game runs very smoothly on a halfway 
 decent machine. For those thinking its just a dota clone it adds alot more features to make it 
 different, like the ability to upgrade your citadel with new creeps or armor. Battles Usually last 
 longer and the actual fights seem more like an action rpg game then a strategy point and click 
 game. For example healing heros and putting armor shields on them is easier to do, and makes the 
 game feel more like a team game. Anyways i decided to make this post because im unsure if gamestop 
 or ign will give this game justice in reviews. Please do yourself a favor and try this game out, 
 its definetly worth it. (not to mention if the game does well the developers will add more demigods 
 and features for up to a year for free) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  Well lets start with the good
  
  THE GOOD
  -Some interesting ideas as a strategy-action-RPG hybrid
  -You can create a large number of units 
 with little performance drop
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  THE BAD
  - Graphics 
 and especially some textures feel low res.
  - Completely unattractive fantasy world with a confusing and boring background story. (if you believe 
 that this game has a story...)
  - Single player is completely stripped and shallow with mainly repetive skirmishes against an AI. 
 The single player feels like Unreal Tournament in short.
  - Multiplayer is nothing special and with only a few number of maps to play with.
  - Annoying 
 music that will make your ears bleed (Mute is the best option in this case...)
  
  CONCLUSSION
  The game is one of the worse hyped games released lately and it is way pricey for 
 what it offers. Do not waste your money for this and especially if you care about single player. 
 The game feels like some amateur work from some small unknown developer and is overall very dissapointing 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwarpup
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  This game is very simple to learn and even to see most everything in it in a short time. But whether 
 you master it or not could take months as any game can be different. Just like Counterstrike did 
 for FPS.. Demigod can do for RTS. (Well DotA did it before but was underground and a mod for Warcraft 
 III) Demigod got the style perfect! And you can see it has much room to grow and expand upon. But 
 even with 8 Heroes so far it will take you quite a long time to work out strategies for each of 
 them, how to play as a team, and what kinds of items and upgrades are throughout a match.
  
  In Demigod. Everything in the game can happen in a single match. With an Assassin or General 
 you can go up 20 levels in less than an hour and every level you get to pick skill upgrades or 
 new skills. Your also constantly gaining gold from doing all kinds of things from killing npcs, 
 other Heroes, or doing any number of team objectives. Gold you can spend on yourself with different 
 RPG items which there are over 100 so far. (Not sure the total) Or you can spend gold to also Upgrade 
 your teams citadel which improves all your teams assets in different ways. There are two teams 
 of up to 5 players each. AIs can also be substituted. You also have Computer Controlled "Creeps" 
 which flood constantly to the other side fighting to destroy enemy towers, and the enemy.
  The object to win varies. Sometimes it to beat a number of Heroes, sometimes to take over the opposite 
 Citadel, and more.
  
  There are 4 Different Assassins. You control one and no others. It is Big and Tough with all kinds 
 of abilities and skilltrees to branch out in different ways. Plus all kinds of gear to buy and 
 outfit.
  
  There are 4 Generals. These are Heroes you control too but also get to summon their own Creeps 
 which you can give a number of upgrades to and can control in different ways. You can also upgrade 
 the Generals Abilities. They are weaker than Assassins but strong as a Army unto themselves. They 
 play pretty differently but fun just the same.
  
  So there you have it. Single player is just against AI players that progress through 8 tournaments. 
 Like the classic Unreal Tournament. 
  
  Graphics are amazing zoomed in at ground level but get very small as you pan way up high looking 
 down. This is the Supreme Commander engine afterall. It looks Very slick and everything has alot 
 of personality.
  
  Sound is awesome with booming announcements going off throughout a tournament. And you hear all 
 the fighting when you zoom in close with pretty much everything making distinct sounds you can 
 recognize. Music is Excellent too.
  
  Its all very addictive and you will want to play it over and over trying out different techniques. 
 You'll want to play this online primarily. And if you buy you should get from Impulse, Stardocks 
 online service since they really are small company and need the support. They dont even bog down 
 their games with protection and DRM junk. You could freely copy the game but you wont be able to 
 play any online. They trust their community and the community is great and really helped shape 
 the games development. Great people on their forums at Demigods homepage. This game is not at all 
 your typical RTS and has elements of Diablo, World of Warcraft (Battlegrounds) , and RTS. Oh and 
 theres an indepth ladder system built in where you can carry over persistent Favor Items into proceding 
 Tournaments and Achievment system as well.
  Its very fast but maps are large enough you got time to think and plan as your moving while your 
 "Creeps" help keep the enemy back or your teamates. 
  
  Its not a huge game yet. They will be growing over time adding more and more new stuff. But what 
 there is now is a blast and will give you lots of time to enjoy. Replay value is everything! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
