-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Demonworld: Dark Armies
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/demonworlddarkarmies/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 29, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 1.6
Critic Score: 3.6, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 52 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Xicat Interactive
Developer: Ikarion
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jan 13, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Demonworld has numerous glaring problems that make it downright painful to play. 

  Demonworld: Dark Armies is based on a German fantasy-themed tabletop strategy game called Demonworld, 
 which is reminiscent of Games Workshop's better-known Warhammer game. Developing a PC strategy 
 game based on a tabletop miniatures game makes perfect sense -- a lot of them can take a long time 
 to set up and play, and a lot of them have interesting stories and characters that could be fleshed 
 out. Yet while Demonworld may be well intentioned, somehow the game manages to be a real monstrosity 
 true to its name.
 
 Demonworld is an awful, awful game. There's evidence of this right when you first begin play, when 
 you realize that the publisher didn't even get the title of the game right. The box and CD case 
 call it Demonworld: Dark Armies, the game calls it Demonworld II: Dark Armies, and the introduction 
 cinematic splashes the name in a half-English, half-German hybrid. In reality, it doesn't matter 
 what you want to call it, because after a short while you won't even care what the name is. In 
 fact, it seems as if even your computer will try to forget it's installed, because it'll try to 
 reinstall the game every time you insert the CD.
 
 At its core, Demonworld is supposed to be a real-time strategy game with a few RPG elements. As 
 in last year's Kohan: Immortal Sovereigns, each unit on the battlefield in Demonworld is actually 
 a formation of warriors. While each warrior in a unit has its own hit points, you can't select 
 warriors individually. Units gain experience as they fight and can be upgraded to become stronger. 
 There are melee, ranged, spellcasting, and hero units in the game.
 
 Demonworld includes a campaign, single-scenario missions, and a multiplayer mode. The storyline 
 in the campaign is an absolute atrocity. You have no idea what's going on -- a narrator tries to 
 tell a grandiose story that seems to pick up out of nowhere. Perhaps if the introduction had been 
 translated into English, you'd have some background material to work with. There are three factions 
 in the game: the empire, the dwarves, and the orks. While you can only play as the empire in the 
 campaign, you can choose any of the three races in the scenario missions. The missions have varied 
 objectives including large-scale battles, covert actions, and defending walled cities. Unfortunately, 
 most of the time you won't have a clue as to what exactly the objective is because the mission 
 descriptions are terrible. In the end it doesn't matter because the computer can't seem to figure 
 it out either. You can win some missions by not even issuing a single order to your troops. How 
 the multiplayer mode works is anyone's guess. During the course of two weeks of testing, we were 
 never able to log into the game's multiplayer server -- because it's not running. Apparently the 
 game hasn't been too successful in Europe either, so don't expect to find any other poor souls 
 to play against.
 
 Demonworld has numerous glaring problems that make it downright painful to play. When you issue 
 an order to a unit, it's automatically deselected. If you want to tell it to do something else, 
 you have to select it again and repeat. Think hotkeys will solve the problem? Well, selecting a 
 unit using a hotkey will automatically center your view on the unit. You then need to scroll to 
 the position on the map where you want it to go. It takes a long time to get used to the mouse 
 interface. Right-clicking the mouse will cycle through the available commands for a selected unit. 
 It gets frustrating because right-clicking also brings up the special commands menu when a unit 
 is  not  selected. If you want to cast a spell, you have to make sure nothing is selected. But 
 if you want to move the mage, you have to select it, then right-click until the "boot" icon shows 
 up. Sound confusing? Good, because now you have a sense of what's easily one of the worst control 
 schemes in years.
 
 Unsurprisingly, the game's artificial intelligence is filled with problems as well. Pathfinding 
 is ridiculous -- units stop in their tracks and get stuck on walls seemingly at random. Sometimes 
 your troops will briefly, suddenly move at three times their normal speed. When fighting, half 
 a unit will engage in combat while the other half just stands there. The computer often will not 
 move its units even if you're pummeling them with artillery fire.
 
 Despite these huge problems, the biggest problem is the campaign itself. You aren't given new units 
 every mission; instead you have a standing army that you need to supervise. It costs gold to recruit 
 new troops and replenish damaged units. The trick is that gold is hard to come by, so if you make 
 a mistake, you're out of luck. It wouldn't be so bad if not for the fact that the game doesn't 
 automatically save after every mission. You can find yourself in deep trouble halfway through the 
 campaign when you can't even field enough units to win. You'll also find that you'll get a mission 
 briefing that says one thing, but you'll end up playing a completely different mission.
 
 The graphics in Demonworld: Dark Armies are completely inexcusable for this day and age. You wouldn't 
 be able to distinguish most of the units if you didn't have a pop-up box that displayed their names. 
 Explosions are a joke, and spell effects are lackluster at best. The fog of war has serious problems 
 as well. Sometimes it'll act like it does in a typical real-time strategy game, where you can clear 
 the blackness from the map, but areas will gray out when you don't have units there. Other times 
 the blackness is restored after you move out of an area. And the strangest of all is when you can 
 still see enemy movements through the fog of war. It's completely random, and all three of these 
 possibilities can occur in the same mission. The sound isn't much better than the graphics. You'll 
 hear typical sword-clashing sounds, screams, and recycled explosion sounds. The music is redundant 
 and makes you want to sleep.
 
 The tabletop version of Demonworld is currently available only in Europe, which is unfortunate because 
 North America has only Demonworld the computer game as a reference for the source material. While 
 the tabletop game may be fun to play, the computer version is utter garbage that should be passed 
 up without a second thought. 
 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Frozen4322
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 23, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-1
  Graphics-1
  Sound-1
  Value-1
  Tilt-3
  Overall-1.16
  
  As most reviews have stated this game has crashed and burned, heavily.
  
  Mostly, I would like 
 to mention that the creators thoughts were great, they just didn't live up to the bill, they shot 
 for the clouds, they missed an crashed in the ocean.
  Which leads me to believe that they only thought of the money, and not the costumers, they published 
 a game, made money and we, the people got a horrible game, which is one of the worst gamespot and 
 basically any other gaming site, 4 sites the average was 2.5, which is abysmal, or a total wreck. 
 I would strongly recommend that you don't buy this game, don't even try it.
  
  Lastly , in order to conclude. I must mention that this game is a perfect example that you should 
 not judge a book by its cover, or rather a video game by its case, this game is rather attractive 
 when you look at the cover, and it looks great!
  
  ~~~Frozen4322 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wcfs25
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 21, 2005 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Buying this game was probably one of my biggest mistakes.
  
  Let me see where to begin.
  1. Slow and not graphics wise just plain as day slow you get nowhere.
  2. You can't control your 
 men the way you want to
  3. You get easily ambushed and you can die rather quickly if you don't know what you are doing.
 
  4. Talk about bad story line as well.
  
  There are some good qualities on the game but those qualities don't give me the satisfaction of 
 being able to defeat and conquer my enemies it is usually the other way around they kill me off 
 faster than I can get my men into the positions that I need them to be in.
  
  The graphics are not all that bad but they could be better, much better.
  The sound is fairly 
 good if you have a good sound card on your computer.
  But these two things are all I somewhat like about the game of if someone tells me other wise I 
 will still say this game is just down right bad and it should have never been created. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
