-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Demolition Derby and Figure 8 Race
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/demolitionderbyandf8r/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 18, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.4
Critic Score: 5.0, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 19 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: eGames
Developer: Auxiliary Power
Genre: Demolition Derby
Date:     Aug 31, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Demolition Derby is a strangely subdued affair that tends to make even the most horrific head-on 
 collision seem bland. 

 There's something to be said for small development studios. However, for every indie game that ends 
 up being a surprise hit, there are a half dozen other games that prove just how difficult it is 
 to devise and construct a product that lives up to today's high standards. Unfortunately, eGames' 
 Demolition Derby and Figure 8 Race is an example of the latter category. The first release from 
 Michigan-based Auxiliary Power, Demolition Derby highlights arguably the most exciting part of 
 motorized competition -- crashing -- and smartly rewards accuracy and sheer aggressiveness. Unfortunately, 
 the game looks and feels so rudimentary that you can't help but wonder if you're playing a prerelease 
 beta version. Even at its budget-conscious sub-$20 MSRP, Demolition Derby isn't all it could or 
 should have been.           The derby portion of Demolition Derby often forces you to extricate 
 yourself from a jumbled mass of machinery.    

 Admittedly, the arena of metallic carnage that is the demolition derby has not gotten a fair shake 
 in the world of PC entertainment. In fact, apart from Psygnosis' thrilling late-1990s Destruction 
 Derby series, Demolition Derby may be the only other game of any consequence to address this wonderfully 
 accident-happy brand of motorsport. But even Psygnosis' very first Destruction Derby game, released 
 way back in 1996, offered more visceral excitement, more depth, and more graphical goodies than 
 this. Demolition Derby is a strangely subdued affair that tends to make even the most horrific 
 head-on collision seem bland.   

  Right from the start, Demolition Derby seems startlingly mediocre. The opening sequence features 
 a surprisingly primitive splash screen, some of the most bizarre music you may ever hear in a driving 
 game, and a series of animated driving sequences of such poor quality that you can only hope they 
 aren't indicative of the gameplay. Worse still, you may not even get that far. We experienced several 
 crashes (not the good kind where two cars collide, but the bad kind where the game drops you to 
 the Windows desktop) during our test period, many of which arose just as we tried to launch the 
 game. The program booted us at other times too -- most often between events as it attempted to load 
 a new track. For some reason, we were able to get past most of these crashes by waiting a few moments 
 before hitting the start button after we'd chosen our vehicle.   

  Even if you're fortunate enough to not experience a lot of Demolition Derby's technical problems, 
 you'll soon see that it's quite simply a notch or two below most other driving games currently 
 on the market. Perhaps most curious is its obvious lack of prerace preparation and user-customization 
 options. After you sign in, you'll select a 640x480, 800x600, or 1024x768 screen resolution, choose 
 one of three global graphic detail settings, and settle on one of three driver perspectives. Further 
 visual tweaking is not permitted. You'll then adjust the game's three audio options and decide 
 on one of four difficulty settings. Other than choosing your preferred car and track, that's pretty 
 much it. In Demolition Derby, there is no track editor, vehicle customization shop, parts and upgrades 
 store, or garage. You can't select a season or championship mode, and you can't choose the number 
 of drivers you'll compete with. Even the game's "trophy case," which displays some of your achievements 
 but certainly not all, looks pieced together from the evaluation version of a simple graphics painting 
 program. Yes, it's that bad.   

  When you do head for the car and track selection screen, the game takes a slight turn for the better. 
 To its credit, developer Auxiliary Power has provided several dozen automobiles of differing sizes 
 and shapes, running the gamut from subcompacts to station wagons and even a hearse. Some are substantially 
 slower and more durable, while others are speedier and more geared toward the decreased damage 
 potential of a figure-eight race than the pile-driving antics of a full-blown demo derby. In fact, 
 since some cars will be finished after just a single good hit, making the correct selection is 
 essential. Yet none of them are licensed representations of real-world cars, and none of them are 
 accompanied by any sort of statistics. You'll actually have to drive each and every vehicle to 
 know what does what.           Picking your way through Demolition Derby's suicidal figure-eight 
 courses is a harrowing experience.     

 Likewise, the game's venues don't have any statistical information. Of the nearly two-dozen circuits 
 offered, the vast majority are oval or rectangular bullrings with few distinguishing features. 
 Three are figure-eight courses. However, unlike Destruction Derby's figure eights, the Demolition 
 Derby figure eights aren't bordered by colorful walls that define a predetermined route. Instead, 
 the developer has simply placed an oil drums at both ends of an otherwise wide-open arena. You'll 
 steer to the right around the first drum and then zip on down to the other end of the arena, where 
 you'll steer to the left around the next.   

  It's this freewheeling design that makes Demolition Derby figure-eight racing temporarily enjoyable. 
 It's a lot of fun, actually, planning just how wide or tight to take the next turn based upon how 
 many kamikaze drivers are going to nail you as they cross your path in the middle of the circuit. 
 Soon, your car is flying around, trying to avoid others while at the same time attempting to spin 
 a rival driver off course, or even better, attempting to smash into another car and turn it on 
 its side or completely upside down on its roof. The game's computer-controlled drivers don't have 
 the same advantage you do -- a hotkey that lets you magically right yourself -- so flipping some AI 
 drivers may well end their day. Unless they get nudged again, which may cause them to flip back 
 over, right side up. Judging when to initiate contact and when to stay clear is an entertaining 
 pastime until you realize that even at the highest difficulty settings, winning a figure-eight 
 race is pretty straightforward. Once you've won the game's five-minute figure-eight events at the 
 game's highest difficulty setting, there's little more to do except to move on to the demo derby. 
    

 The demo derby mode is perhaps the most disappointing part of the game. Whereas Psygnosis' Destruction 
 Derby featured hugely deformable vehicles, flying chassis chunks, wild speed bursts, and cataclysmic 
 crash audio, Demolition Derby sports none of the above. The pace is slow and calming, the acceleration 
 is plodding (particularly in reverse gear, where you'll need a few seconds just to get the wheels 
 rolling) , and the crash effects are distinctly underwhelming. Granted, cars will deform to reflect 
 the degree of damage they've sustained, but it happens so slowly and so subtly that you really 
 can't see the damage appear. Steam and thick black smoke rise from battered engines, but both are 
 completely opaque and therefore will obscure your view of the immediate surroundings. Unfortunately, 
 parts, tires, and wheels don't detach and bounce about, either.           A pseudo-ambulance careens 
 over top of an unfortunate competitor.    

 From a purely visual standpoint, Demolition Derby isn't particularly inspiring. Looking like a refugee 
 from the mid-1990s, the game is hampered by indistinct object outlines, grainy textures, and cute 
 but decidedly primitive automobiles. Trackside scenery is confined to a spectator-filled grandstand, 
 distant trees and mountains, and precious few extras. The actual racing surfaces are flat, dreary 
 palettes.   

  The game's audio is just as unimpressive. Although your own engine emits a tolerable growl that 
 varies as you accelerate, the sounds from the vehicles around you are strangely inconsistent. The 
 crash effects are repetitive and strikingly similar to the sound of a soda can being crushed. There 
 are no announcers and no decipherable cheering spectators, and you certainly won't hear anything 
 from the totally mute drivers. Post- and prerace music is a strange mixture of brass and country 
 and therefore seems oddly out of place.   

  Thankfully, Auxiliary Power has created a flock of intelligent AI drivers. Make no mistake -- these 
 guys know where you are and are perfectly capable of applying a thorough beating. One of your options 
 is to become a constantly weaving moving target, steering clear of contact and relatively free 
 of blemishes, although such actions will elicit a warning and eventual banishment from the invisible 
 authorities. An infinitely better alternative is to watch and absorb the game's informative yet 
 rather dull slideshow tutorial, where you'll learn that belting a guy on his front or back end 
 will damage your own car as much as it will his. You'll also learn that a wheel well is a great 
 pace to attack, second only to a door. It is a welcome bonus that Demolition Derby accentuates 
 the accuracy of an attack more than its force. Unfortunately, it doesn't keep tabs of the number 
 of hits you've scored, instead rewarding you only for the amount of time you've managed to keep 
 your engine running.           Because it features no rear view mirrors or lateral perspectives, 
 Demolition Derby's in-car camera isn't particularly effective.    

 However, the unremarkable special effects and sluggish pace -- the latter of which often results in 
 a mishmash clump of cars slowly trying to extricate themselves from one another -- isn't the only 
 reason the demo derby component isn't all it could be. Almost as annoying are the intangibles infused 
 into the top two difficulty levels. Rather than adding fiercer competition, longer events, or more 
 challenging venues, the game's higher difficulty levels force you to drive an increasingly delicate 
 automobile. Indeed, your car becomes so fragile at the most demanding difficulty setting that even 
 a rear-end impact can destroy your front-mounted engine! And that simply isn't fair.   

  Though it does show some promise and may be intriguing enough to keep young or inexperienced drivers 
 busy for a few days, Demolition Derby and Figure 8 Race cannot be considered a truly good game. 
 The demo derby concept is great, and the figure-eight events are a hoot, but the game is otherwise 
 too clumsy and too unrefined to be recommended.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
