-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Descent: Freespace - The Great War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/descentfreespacethegw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 22, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.1, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 732 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Volition Inc.
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     May 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a noble effort to both cannibalize the best elements of classics of the genre and also provide 
 a number of refreshing innovations. 

 Over the years a variety of space-combat simulations have been released, but none of them has been 
 as polished or even remotely as interesting as LucasArts' X-Wing series or Origin Systems' Wing 
 Commander series, both of which are still going strong. With the enticing capabilities of 3D graphics 
 hardware support and a general resurgence in science fiction themes, it was only a matter of time 
 before gaming companies would, once again, try to break LucasArts' and Origin Systems' collective 
 stranglehold over the genre. At last a worthy challenger has arrived. Descent: Freespace is one 
 of a number of recently released or announced space-sim titles from developers who are better known 
 for creating successful gaming series in other genres. But while MicroProse's X-COM Interceptor 
 is a fading memory, and little anticipation has developed for Accolade's Star Con (formerly Star 
 Control 4) , Volition has carefully crafted Descent: Freespace to provide a welcome mix of compelling 
 graphics, plot, and gameplay.   

 When the plot of Descent: Freespace begins, the ever-warmongering Terrans are in the midst of a 
 14-year misunderstanding with the Vasudans. While the Vasudans and the Terrans are fairly evenly 
 matched, they quickly put aside their differences when a third race appears, the technologically 
 superior Shivans. Although a rebel Vasudan faction continues to harass the new Vasudan-Terran alliance, 
 the main threat comes from the Shivans and their monstrous capital ship, the Lucifer. From the 
 opening animated cutscene, Descent: Freespace does an excellent job at maintaining the aura of 
 the Shivans as a mysterious, unstoppable force. When you first encounter the Shivans, you won't 
 even be able to target their jet-black ships, and the weapons that seemed so impressive against 
 the Vasudans will barely make an impression on the Shivans and their seemingly invulnerable shields. 
 At first you have to avoid direct conflicts with the superior Shivans and instead embark on missions 
 to steal their technology in order to improve the capabilities of your ships. In fact, there's 
 a real X-COM feel to the game, as you uncover the mysteries of the Shivans and constantly improve 
 the technology of your ships and weaponry.   

 Very little about Descent: Freespace is entirely original, but the developers did an admirable job 
 at extracting the best features from previous spaces sims. Everything from the "sink the behemoth" 
 branching plot to the stylish interface, mission briefings, and graphics appears to be plucked 
 from other games of the genre, but improved. In many ways, the graphics closely resemble those 
 used in Wing Commander Prophecy and make especially good use of colored lighting, shielding, lens 
 flare, and engine blast effects. The graphics are particularly impressive in later missions, when 
 immense capital ships patrol through colored nebulas and asteroid fields, swarmed by hordes of 
 attacking fighters and bombers until they are wracked by massive explosions. You won't have time 
 to stand around and admire the fireworks, however, as the shock waves from exploding capital ships 
 are particularly deadly in this game. It's a nod to realism that increases the immersiveness of 
 the game, especially if you're using a force-feedback joystick.  

 Combat in Descent: Freespace also more closely resembles the fast-paced, missile-blasting, afterburner 
 sliding frag fests of the Wing Commander series than the World War II style of combat favored by 
 the Star Wars sims. Descent: Freespace is probably the most missile-intensive game yet seen in 
 the genre, but fortunately single missile hits aren't usually too destructive to your ship. Afterburners 
 can only be utilized in short bursts, requiring you to tactically reserve them for when they are 
 most useful. You can adjust the power levels of your shields, engines, and weapons, but unlike 
 games such as X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter, which constantly require you to juggle those settings, the 
 ships in Descent: Freespace appear to be admirably powered, and you'll rarely feel the need to 
 adjust settings to boost power in a particular area. Wingmen AI is excellent in some respects but 
 poor in others. You have unprecedented control over your wingmen, and they'll capably respond to 
 an order to take out the weapons system or engine of a capital ship, but they also won't hesitate 
 to mow you down if you happen to fly in between them and your target. One handy feature is that 
 you'll get a communications warning whenever an enemy ship is attacking you from behind. It's a 
 shame you don't get a similar warning when one of your maniacal wingmen decides to gleefully launch 
 a spread of missiles at a target inches in front of your ship.  

 The customizable interface of Descent: Freespace is outstanding - easily the best yet seen in the 
 genre. The interface was clearly designed to make useful information, such as the status of escorted 
 ships, the direction and the distance of approaching missiles, mission objectives, and the condition 
 of your wingmen, constantly available on your screen. Find some of that information unnecessary 
 or obstructive? Then remove it from the interface entirely, or set it to only appear when there 
 is a change in its status. You can also change the color of the interface and control its relative 
 brightness. Descent: Freespace's interface is among the best I've seen in any game.  

 The plot of Descent: Freespace advances through animated cutscenes, periodic "news" updates on the 
 status of the war, as well as through mission briefings and the occasional scripted mission event. 
 Overall, these methods combine to provide a compelling, if somewhat disjointed, storyline. But 
 it's lacking in depth. Your wingmen lack names or distinguishing identities, and you never get 
 to see the leaders or other personalities composing the various factions in the game. Aside from 
 an effective animated introduction and some obligatory ending scenes, there is only a handful of 
 animated scenes in the game, most of which appear fairly early on in the storyline. The remainder 
 of the cutscenes consist solely of panning skylines, while a female narrator provides some additional 
 background mythology on the history of the Shivans and their possible role in the universe. It 
 seems as if the developers didn't quite have the time to finish an otherwise very polished single-player 
 game.   

 There are approximately 30 single-player missions in the branching campaign and 20 multiplayer missions. 
 The mission objectives are nicely varied and include "kill 'em all" missions, stealthy inspection 
 missions, a mission that resembles a giant game of Asteroids, and some epic capital ship confrontations 
 near the end of the game. Descent: Freespace automatically saves after each campaign mission, and 
 you can't independently save the game, which is a bit disappointing, since it prevents you from 
 exploring the various campaign "branches" without restarting the entire campaign. While the developers 
 may have opted for such a system in order to encourage gamers to replay the campaign, I suspect 
 that most gamers are reluctant to accept unsuccessful mission results and tend to play space sims 
 through in a fairly linear fashion. There's just something inherently unsatisfying about tanking 
 a mission just so you can see a different plot thread.  

 The list of additional features Descent: Freespace purports to support is unsurpassed, but unfortunately 
 they don't all work very well. A free mission editor is included, allowing you to create your own 
 missions and trade them with other players, which may significantly extend the replayability of 
 the game. Support for force-feedback joysticks is implemented extremely well - the controller will 
 effectively shake when you apply an afterburner burst, each type of weapon has a different feel, 
 and directional hits leave you with no question as to the location of your attacker. You can personalize 
 the picture of your pilot and can communicate with other human players in real time over microphones 
 - provided you have sufficient bandwidth.   

 Multiplayer support for up to 12 players is included either through a TCP/IP network or the Internet 
 through the free Parallax Online servers. Parallax Online keeps detailed pilot statistics and is 
 an extremely streamlined service, with an intuitive interface and seamless integration with the 
 multiplayer interface of Descent: Freespace. Unfortunately, even after two patches, most gamers 
 will find a multiplayer game of Descent: Freespace over the Internet to be completely unplayable 
 due to lag. Unlike first-person shooter games, where an environment's walls and a player's line 
 of sight will naturally limit the number of objects that a client has to keep track of at any one 
 time, the open areas of space-combat simulations have historically proven very difficult to use 
 as online multiplayer arenas. Multiplayer support was eventually removed from Wing Commander Prophecy 
 because Origin wasn't satisfied that it would work well, and even earlier in that game's development 
 Internet multiplayer support was removed. Even X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter limits multiplayer support 
 to four players over Microsoft's Internet Gaming Zone. In that context, it's astonishing that Interplay 
 and Volition were, almost until the game was released, advertising Descent: Freespace as capable 
 of supporting 16 players online, when in fact the retail version of the game is currently incapable 
 of even adequately supporting two players each using 56K modems. While the development team continues 
 to work on patches to improve the game's online performance (a third was released as this review 
 goes to print) , the advertised multiplayer features may have been overly ambitious, and seriously 
 misleading, given the current state of the game.  

 Still, unless you are only looking for a multiplayer dogfighting area (in which case you'll be doubly 
 disappointed, since deathmatch support was removed late in development entirely, in favor of cooperative 
 and team vs. team missions) there's a lot to like about Descent: Freespace. It's a noble effort 
 to both cannibalize the best elements of classics of the genre and also provide a number of refreshing 
 innovations. While Descent: Freespace isn't quite the standout game it could have been, it's a 
 welcome step in the right direction for the genre. Highly recommended.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: darkpiggy17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  So this game is old. Really, in the gaming world, a couple of years means a long time, so this 
 game is like 78 in game years. Most people dont like playing with 78 year olds. But, (for the sake 
 of this metaphor) this game is the coolest senior citizen game land has to offer. This is one of 
 those buried treasure games, really. It never really recieved that much attention. I had never 
 heard of it until i found it came free with a computer we bought back in like 1999, and i haven't 
 heard much of it since. I tell my friends about it and they say they've never heard of it. Its 
 a sad story really, because honestly this game deserves as much attention as any other game. 
 
  First of all, it's not simply thrown together. The story is RPG quality even though its really 
 just a flight sim. Every detail is worked out to make you feel as though you're actually a pilot 
 in the GTA. (Galactic Terran Alliance)
  Every time I play a mission, i get lost in the detail. Volition even made a good number of different 
 classes of bombers, fighters, and all sorts of other ships, named them, and pitted them against 
 you. Its not just shooting enemies, its shooting Wings of aliens, individually named and classed. 
 The HUD is remarkable. For such an old game, they really covered about everything i would ever 
 expect to see. You can change the energy levels of your ship to make your engines, your weapons, 
 or your shields more powerful. You really end up feeling like if this whole scenario were possible 
 at all, that they've done everything they could to make it even more real. 
  The graphics... well... it is an old game, so you cant criticize too harshly. Any fan of recent 
 games like Gears of War and Mass Effect that truly displayed the best graphics we can make will 
 be sorely disappointed. However, if you realize that the less than stellar graphics are still good 
 enough that you can see and understand what's going on, the gameplay will make up for the setback 
 of unfortunate graphics. 
  The gameplay is a thing of beauty. It just shines. Every mission feels different, and they all 
 also feel necessary for the story to continue and for you to get a hang of it all. It's a lot to 
 think about, being so detailed, but once you play through a couple of missions, you will be able 
 to annhiallate the enemy. That's not to say the game is easy though. I find myself angry with the 
 game many times, especially on the higher difficulty levels. After beating it on the normal level 
 once, i was fed up with the insane 'protect your destroyer from literally about 1500 enemies' missions. 
 They end up getting kind of frustrating. But in the end, the game is really just plain fun
  
  Final Verdict: Its a shame that this game didnt get more attention, because it deserved it. 
 It got my attention, and i'm very very glad it did. I'll be playing this game for many years to 
 come. It may be a hard game to find, but if you can get your hands on a copy, do so, and consider 
 yourself very lucky. 
  XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrepride
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  The most underrated game and the best game I have ever played. Descent Freespace is so much ahead 
 of it's time. The gameplay isn't anything new but is fun and addicting. The only negative on the 
 campaign is that if you fail there are no alternate mission endings. The graphics are beautiful 
 and the frame-rate is so smooth, you would think that this is a video recording. The sounds for 
 the different lasers are cool along with the wingmate dialogue. They just should have personalized 
 wingmen so you can distinguish them from one another. You can not pass up this game. Go to Ebay 
 or something and buy this game. The value now is outrageous. I haven't played the sequel to this 
 yet but I'm sure it is just as good as the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazychazman
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 13, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  First off the gameplay is the most keyboard friendly Space Flight sim I've played so that is a 
 big plus. Also the HUD Tells you everything that is goiing on from damage to if a fighters on your 
 tail. The wingmen in the game that do what you tell them to do actually do what you tell them to 
 do. The sound is great and the music fits the mood of the game. The story is original and easy 
 to get into and the missions help move the story along. The amount of ships in this game is jaw 
 dropping and the weapons are diverse and unique. Overall this game is great and the developers 
 did a great job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckjon
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  For some reason, the original FS feels more, visceral, even if it lacked hi-res polygons and stuff. 
 This version was faster and more in your face than FS2.
  After playing the demo and falling in love with the GTF Apollo design, i went out and bought this 
 game, and loved it every since. The most memorable mission was Exodus, the 2nd to last mission 
 where you fly to the jumpgate, and the sub-space mission. Even if i loved the Apollo, nothing beats 
 the Valkyrie.
  Even after 9 years, i still play this game thanks to the FRED editor, i always try to have 10 capital 
 ships versus each other with 50 fighters duking it out.
  Course it seems to crash after a specific number of ships you put out : (
  Overall, this game 
 belongs in anyone's space sim collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysticDynamite
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Descent: FreeSpace is certainly one of the best games I've ever played. It has an excellent story, 
 superb space combat, and very well-designed ships.
  
  Gameplay: Exciting space-combat is delivered virtually every level. Difficulty is well done; very 
 easy IS very easy and very hard IS very hard. Almost all of the weapons are useful in combat, but 
 many of the weapons become obsolete as the story goes on. Despite this, it delivers exciting gameplay 
 with virtually every level.
  
  Graphics: The ship models are very well done and highly detailed, the other graphics are also very 
 well rendered, but some of the textures are a little ugly.
  
  Sound: Sound is beautiful throughout the game. The background music is beautiful and sets a mood 
 identical to the one in the game. The weapon sound effects are also well-done; nothing at all makes 
 your ears bleed.
  
  Value: With an easy to use level editor and a main game you'll simply want to play over and over 
 again, replay value is infinite.
  
  Overall: Find this game and buy it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  I hate to admit this, but I had to be talked into buying this game because I wasn't a big fan of 
 the Decent series per say. One day at work my co-worker couldn't stop talking about how much fun 
 the game was. With some prodding and a lot of pressure from my friends, I bought the game and installed 
 it.
  
  Man was an idiot I was for not having bought this game before then. I don't know where to start, 
 the story was absolutely addictive. It took some doing to get used to the keyboard/mouse commands 
 but once you had those down you were issuing orders without even thinking about it. Ordering squadrons 
 to attack the enemy ships hanger bays while you picked off their bombers. The game was just a joyous 
 thrill ride from start to finish. An instant classic in not a master peace. While the game had 
 no multiplayer, a real shame in my opinion, the game had a solid heart, story, game play, and the 
 interplay name behind it. While my copy of this game has long since been lost, I still miss the 
 days of the old joystick / keyboard combination as I swung my fighter about and attacked an entire 
 quadrant of fighters. The medal features was also a cooling thing to behold, albeit I was more 
 interested in piloting the various fighters over winning metals.
  
  This game should be considered as one of the ten all time best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benderill0
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  I remember when i first got this game, i was looking around my house and i found a paper cd case. 
 Inside was a cd labeled "Descent: Freespace." I had never seen this game before and i assumed it 
 came free with something we bought. So i popped it in, installed it, and ran the game. I remember 
 that when i got to the menu it was the cool kind of futuristic hanger. I started looking around, 
 went to all the rooms and just messed around for a while. So i started my first mission, which 
 was a blast, but it was no real challenge. I reasily blew through the vasudians with little effort 
 when suddenly out of nowhere comes these red and black ships that were killing everyone. They swarmed 
 all over the place and i had 5 on my tail, and they took so many shots. It was scary in a way, 
 but i always managed to come through. Then came The Lucifer, the huge ship that seemed unbeatable. 
 Enemy fighters stopped you from getting close, and the ship itself could easily overpower you. 
 But in the end i did it and came out victorious. Now with all the nostalgia out of the way, this 
 game is perfect. The gameplay is addictive. I usually like space sims, the feel of weightlessness 
 and flying around was great. But there werent many games that did it right, Freespace did. The 
 graphics were amazing, the Shivas felt dark and forboding and the general look of space was great. 
 I could go on but all i want to say is that this game is one of the best ive ever played, its up 
 there with fallout and the like, a good purchase for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  A Must Play for Space Sim Fans
  
  I played this game all the way through numerous times. good fun, a great space sim. Playing this 
 with headphones on was great. This game was my excuse to get a new joystick back in the day, thrustmaster 
 was the top dog back then... lol. The only problem is that once you play this, you will have to 
 go play freespace 2.... not that this is really a problem. 
  
  This game is dirt cheap now, pick it up in your local bargain bin. it is old, you will be able 
 to max all setting no problem. while you are at it you may as well pick up freespace 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phazon78
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Descent Freespace: The Great War may not be original, but it sure is fun! Taking place in a war 
 caused by a misunderstanding between the Humans and the Vasudans. Then a technologicaly superior 
 race, the Shivans show up, causing any past animosity between the Humans and the Vasudans to be 
 quickly forgotten. Here's the facts on this classic game.
  
  Gameplay:10
  Gameplay is astounding. When I read the preview of this game being "Descent without walls", I was 
 a little skeptical. It said nothing of the tremendous, immersive environment alloted to the game. 
 While there are easily better looking games, I doubt there are more immersive ones.
  
  Graphics:8
  The lowpoint of the game, even if it's not that low. When you are engaging a Capital 
 ship that is 2 miles long, all of it's defensive turrets booming full blast at you, you don't have 
 a tendancy to notice that some of the textures are a bit pixilated. 
  
  Sound:10
  No complaints here. Sound FX match the animations perfectly. From the Rippling hum of a 1,000,000 
 horsepower space engine, to the high-pitched scream of a near miss laser bolt, The sound is simply 
 made for this game.
  
  Value:10
  This game is abandonware (Free to download) . But when all the ports have been closed due to the 
 fact demand exceeds bandwidth supply, you know you're lookin' at one hell of a game. This game 
 is now a collector's item, meaning if you try to buy it online, most will be WAAAAY overpriced. 
 There is the occasional $10.99 plus shipping and handling. And if you see that one, spring for 
 it, because odds are, if you don't get it then, you've lost your opportunity. Replay value for 
 this game makes it worth the price, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Ice
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Not kidding at all, this game has changed my life and the way I look at games and my expecations 
 from them.
  It was one of the first games to use Directx hardware accelaration and displayed great graphics. 
 A later patch added support for EAX sound, improving the game experience.
  The game's script is probably the best with excellent plot twists, hateable baddies, uneasy allies, 
 and somewhat impersonal wingmen. If there is a flaw, it's the lack of interraction with the wingmen.
 
  The various levels of mission completion adds more interest in trying to outdo yourself... Also 
 the medals and promotions are a nice touch.
  This game made me buy my first Direct3D accelerated video card, an I740 and a SoundBlaster Live 
 and then I bought the original game, because what I had was an illegal pirate copy.
  The level of immersion in this game made me expect so much more from other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wtj87
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  If you want to play a good space sim game then this is the one and only one to get. The graphics 
 are great especially for something made back in 1998. The gameplay is fairly difficult and really 
 challenges you to play better. The story behind the game is good and well told. The cinematics 
 are decent, but still great for something made in 1998. 
  If you are going to play this game then you are going to need to buy a joystick if you already 
 don't have one. This game is just great. 
  I highly recommend buying this game if you are into space combat or if you just like flight simulators. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian1480
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  The stage is set for The Great War in the opening cutscene... and it doesn't slow down until the 
 game is over.
  
  THE GOOD:
  -The plot, the plot, the plot. Engaging... engrossing. It's voice acting is top-notch. The in-game 
 talking is fabulous. Keeps you right with what's going on.
  -The graphics are brilliant. Ahead of their time. lighting is beatuiful and the weapons firing 
 and impact on shields and ships looks amazing.
  -The sound is heavy and hard-hitting. The weapons sound like their unloading some powerful heat.
 
  -The gameplay is as good as it gets. Control (particularly with a good controller) is just right 
 and has all the amenities that you come to expect in a flight sim. And many times you'll hyperspace 
 out of a firefight just in time... ready to get to the next stressful briefing. 
  -Addiction levels are high with this one.
  -Adjustable difficulty ensure a good time no matter 
 what your level is.
  
  THE BAD:
  -I wish it was a longer game.
  -No online play = middling replay value.
  
  If you have yet to play this underappreciated masterpiece, 
 find a copy of this game and spin it up. If you have a flight stick, you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlton999
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:39 am PT
Review:  this was the 3rd game that i bought for my pc. this space sim was very fun, it came with both parts 
 for a very cheap price at target in the bargin bin. well worth $4.99 that i paid for it 10 times 
 over. i got through this game in a few days and im going to install it on my newly rebuilt pc when 
 i have the time. the only complaint that i have about the game is that it dose not have throttle 
 support for your joystick. you have to control your speed via keyboard, but its not that big of 
 a deal........ you get used to it pretty quick. the graphics are good for the day that this game 
 was made and sometimes the missions can take a while between targets but thats no big either. great 
 game........ if you can find it, buy it. very well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frontball
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I had first seen the game when I tried a demo for it. Well, I played through that demo 60 bloody 
 times before I finally found the actual game. I was NOT disappointed at all! I spent a long time 
 on that game, and not just to pass it once, I had to pass it quite a few times to get sick of the 
 never-the-same-twice combat. I even managed to have fun beating gauntlet, but it was never the 
 same as the missions!
  
  First off, gameplay. I never had a joystick while I played this game, but I still enjoyed the keyboard 
 controls. It is surprising how easy it can be to control the ships with the number pad! My fingers 
 were darting from key to key with relative ease! It made the game easy to get the hang of movin 
 around in, but the enemies took more getting used to. The tracking, radar, weapons systems and 
 all in between made for a colorful game with near limitless replay value. Even the missions change 
 when you fail a few important objectives!
  
  For it's time, the graphics associated with this game were very well done. The lighting effects 
 worked brilliantly and the explosions were never less than spectacular. Not a glitch, not a hitch!
 
  
  The sound also added to the experience. You could always hear your squadmates updating you on the 
 status of the area and the lovely shattering explosions of ships. Even the creaking of your ship 
 against another was well done. 
  
  Overall, this game came cheap, and paid off untill the end. Must play, most will NOT regret it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izod91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I know this review is short, but I have to put in my two-cents. This game is absolutely amazing 
 and is well worth getting. The story line was well thought up, and deserves all praise. If you 
 like strategy and/or space flight games, this game is deffinately for you. I highly reccomend it 
 for everyone.
  
  It is centered around two species fighting a war, when an undiscovered species came in and interfered 
 with a weapon of mass destruction and technology neither race understood. The two known races allied 
 to destroy the unknown, called Shivans.
  
  Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 2, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Descent: Freespace is deceiving mostly because of its name. Aside from the fact that both games 
 use physics, Freespace does not have any references or common ship designs from Descent which is 
 actually a great thing. If you are not a big fan of Descent, don't let the game's title discourage 
 you from trying this ambitious space sim. Unlike Descent, you will not be put into a free-floating 
 spaceship with ugly 3D spaces, bizzare flying objects, and power ups. Instead, Freespace will place 
 you in the character of an unknown space fighter pilot and very capable fighter ships. Freespace 
 does what Wing Commander and X-Wing have done for years but it's executed much better. The story 
 is well crafted but not original which is typical of most space sims. In some ways the story feels 
 closely imitated to Wing Commander: Prophecy. However, that doesn't undermine Freespace's other 
 great attributes as a good space sim. Some of these great attributes include its ship designs, 
 briefing presentations and overall pre-launching interfaces. It does it with so much polish and 
 flair that a game of this caliber definitely deserves a more aggressive marketing campaign. 
  
  Freespace is also misleading in screenshots. A single look of the HUD makes you feel overwhelmed 
 but Volition Inc. has gone through so much effort to help players grasp their ship's instruments 
 thanks in part to the game's innovative training missions. The training missions are neither long 
 nor boring; in fact, they are an intriguing part of the game. Some games train you by asking you 
 to destroy 'X' and end the mission. Not in this case. The instructors in Freespace thoroughly educate 
 the player with each of the HUDs gauges and indicators. Freespace will even make those who have 
 never played a space-sim before feel like experts. It educates the player over its purpose and 
 explains each of its uses well. Moreover, the design of the HUD is extremely intuitive. A single 
 glance of any instrument is enough to understand the relative position of any incoming targets, 
 missiles, or other random ships that come by your way. You won't see window rails or your hand 
 and legs in the cockpit. Everything that blinks or moves in the HUD has some significance. The 
 game even gives you the option to change the HUDs color, brightness, and opacity. Freespace also 
 gives the player the ability to remove any instrumentation from the HUD - a feature that would 
 be appreciated by experienced Freespace sim-jockeys.
  
  The graphics and sound are pretty much over the top. Ships have spectacular explosions. The explosions 
 are similar to what you see in sci-fi movies where the ship debris have remaining discharges and 
 electric 'waves'. But what's really the bread and butter of this game is its attention to detail. 
 Some space sims just try to create ships that have beautiful textures but Freespace designs its 
 ships all the way down to its subsystems (which is also a separate part of the ship that you can 
 target as well!) . All ships of all types, from cruiser-class to fighter-class, have purposeful 
 design. Damage is also done well. When a whole squadron of fighters and freighters are damaged 
 in the middle of a dense dogfight, a whole level of intensity is added. When you see leaking reactors, 
 burned subsystems, and a whole slew of other ship damaging effects flooding the dogfights, you 
 definitely feel like there is definitely a "Great War" going on.
  
  AI is good as the enemy or as your squadmate (s) . Your squadmate may annoy you when they get into 
 a bind with an enemy fighter but at least you have the option to have them jump out of the system 
 to fight another day if they really bother you that bad. Controlling them is just as easy as thanks 
 again to the in-game intructors.
  
  Voiceovers and CGI Cutscenes are also of high quality which help immerse the player into the game 
 as a whole. Too bad the story is not as strong.
  
  Even with all of the great strides it has made when compared to the more popular space sims, Freespace's 
 plot is very predictable. Another weak spot is its multiplayer. Although it is easy to setup, there 
 isn't much of a community to play with. Multiplayer was an afterthought in this game but at least 
 it is stable enough to for minimal lag and can handle a big dogfight. Descent: Freespace is also 
 short. Don't expect a lengthy campaign and it is linear. There are also no branching points in 
 the story. 
  
  Small gripes aside, if you are a seasoned space-sim vet that believes Freespace is just one of 
 those me-too games, you must at least try this game once. This especially includes those who were 
 always discouraged by the complexity of these types of games. 
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewilyranger
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2005 2:56 pm PT
Review:  My friend gave me this to let me try out, it looked really interesting so I had to try it. Let's 
 just say I was not disappointed at all. You assume the role as a pilot for the Galactic Terran 
 federation in the beginning of the game you are battling the Vasuna aliens but then a more powerful 
 alien force known as the Shivans come and you and the Vasunans ally together to stop the threat. 
 The story is really good but the gameplay is even better with rich graphics and nice realistic 
 explosions. The ship specifications are real nice there are everything from fast fighters to hulky 
 bombers. You have a cache of secondary weapons missiles, bombs and dependent on the ship it can 
 hold a certain amount of primary and secondary weapons. Another good feature I like is the ability 
 to resupply your secondary ammo when in combat, though there is no way to repair your ship in the 
 midst of combat, the AI is good your allies attack pursue enemy ships as well protect you. There 
 are different order commands for you allies so that way you can keep them under control. All in 
 all this a game that is highly recommended and bring great hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybrid17
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 1, 2004 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I think everybody knows this tale: we, earthlings start exploiring space , we discover some aliens 
 and then we go fighting with them. That was the story of almost every spacesim we ever knew. Freespace 
 : The Great War is no exception. But it wasn't the story , but the way the game brings the story 
 that interested us. Well, Freespace did agood job. You play as a Terran pilot, during the Terran-Vasudan 
 war. Both sides are standing on their last feet, when suddenly a third super-tech species, The 
 Shivans comes in. With no other way of surviving Terran & Vasudans, become allies. Though a radical 
 vasudan group Hammer Of Light isn't that happy with the alliance and cutting the alliance in all 
 ways possible the main threat comes form the Shivan fleet and their superdestroyer The Lucifer.
 
  The graphics and the sound of Freespace are good. I, personnaly, find the sound even better that 
 the graphics. And the makers make a great job showing Shivans as a strong mysteries force. But 
 the story resembles that of Wing Commander: Prophecy, but it's still a great game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
