-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Descent 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/descent3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 28, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.5, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 540 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Outrage Games
Genre: Action
Date:     Jun 14, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It improves in almost every conceivable way on its predecessors and reestablishes the series as 
 the premier example of the play style it single-handedly pioneered. 

 In 1995, hot on the heels of id's genre-defining Doom, Parallax Software created its own revolution 
 in frantic shooting games: Descent. Whereas Doom felt immediately familiar by casting you in the 
 role of a human moving around on foot while shooting at similarly gravity-constrained enemies, 
 Descent turned the experience, literally, on its head. Parallax's inspiration was to put you into 
 a free-floating spaceship, inject the ship into a series of 3D spaces, and pit it against other 
 flying objects - the complex maneuverability of a space sim coupled with the relentless pace of 
 a first-person shooter. By removing the notion of up and down, Descent embodied a groundbreaking 
 and utterly unique style of play, demanding participants master a sense of total spatial awareness 
 missing completely from its competition. It has been four years since the original Descent, and 
 three since its first sequel. But a splinter group of the original team at Parallax, Outrage, has 
 now released Descent 3, which improves in almost every conceivable way on its predecessors and 
 reestablishes the series as the premier example of the play style it single-handedly pioneered. 

 Descent 3 begins immediately at the end of Descent 2. You are rescued after destroying the warp 
 core as your craft hurtles towards a star. Your saviors inform you that the evil PTMC is plotting 
 to.... That abrupt ellipsis is an attempt to simulate your likely and almost immediate loss of 
 interest in Descent 3's story. Plot has never been the series' long suit, and while Outrage has 
 valiantly attempted to infuse this installment with a coherent narrative by including occasional 
 radio chatter, detail-rich mission debriefings, and cutscenes starring what looks to be the original 
 cast of the Thunderbirds, the entire tale is far from compelling. Thankfully, following the story 
 is not a prerequisite for experiencing the gameplay.  

 Each of the 15 single-player levels can be safely viewed as an unrelated piloting-skills test. Rather 
 than following the standard  formula, the missions present 
 a nice mix of goals. You'll definitely be asked to find the occasional key, but you'll also be 
 required to operate or destroy bizarre machinery, snake your way through subway tunnels without 
 being crushed by oncoming trains, and escape rebel outposts as they blow apart around you. One 
 memorable level finds you defending five reactor cores from attack; at least three must survive 
 for ten minutes to complete the mission. Although only 15 levels are included - half as many as 
 in Descent 2 - each of these is huge, visually unique, and composed of a series of several subtasks. 
 To keep you from becoming frustrated with flying aimlessly around Descent's intricate structures, 
 standard ship equipment includes a guidebot that will lead you to your next goal, dropping signal 
 flares to mark the way, and politely returning if it gets too far ahead. The guidebot, introduced 
 in Descent 2, occasionally gets stuck in tight spots and otherwise misbehaves in this third installment 
 but nevertheless remains a great design element. Not since Planetfall's Floyd has a little robotic 
 buddy been so dear to a gamer's heart.  

 The Descent series has always been a rather bloodless affair, both literally and figuratively. The 
 combination of its stylized mine-shaft setting and an assortment of enemies composed solely of 
 laser-spitting geometric shapes has given it a distinctly abstract feel - chess played on a tilt-a-whirl. 
 Outrage has created a new engine, called Fusion, for Descent 3. While requiring a 3D accelerator, 
 it allows the game, for the first time, to render outdoor terrain and includes lots of modern extras 
 such as colored lighting and extremely realistic smoke and flame effects. The new graphics are 
 quite beautiful, and while remaining generally consistent with the sterile look of its predecessors, 
 they add a welcome organic character to Descent 3's environments. The first time you fly your ship 
 out of a tunnel into broad daylight and bank around to finally see the outside of the structure 
 in which all Descent players have been entombed, you cannot help but be exhilarated.  

 Sound effects are plentiful and well done. Explosions erupt with lots of satisfying, floor-rattling 
 bass, lasers ping nicely, flamethrowers emit appropriate rumbling whooshes, and there's plenty 
 of ambient beeping, hissing, and mechanical humming. Of special note is the game's soundtrack. 
 A mix of slightly skewed techno and oddball trance, virtually every track is memorable and strangely 
 appropriate. This is the rare game that may inspire you to shut off the sound effects so that you 
 can enjoy the music.  

 Quite simply, Descent 3 ships with the most complete multiplayer game of any action-shooter yet 
 released. Fifteen multiplayer levels are packaged with the game. Deathmatch, cooperative, capture 
 the flag, and the very fun monsterball (somewhat like soccer with flying robots) are just four 
 of the nine variations included. Outrage has its own network, called PXO, which features a free 
 matchup service and player rankings. A huge online Descent community already exists and will surely 
 enlarge with the release of this newest installment, so finding a suitable game should not be a 
 problem. The single letdown in the Descent 3 multiplayer package is Outrage's decision to remove 
 mid-level saving from the co-op mode. While not a huge problem - the mere existence of a collaborative 
 romp through the single player levels puts the game ahead of most of its competition - it is a 
 disappointment to anyone expecting the feature to be carried over from Descent 2.  

 Outrage has brought the Descent series into the modern era in high style and with a furious commitment 
 to quality. The single-player experience alone makes Descent 3 worth the purchase. Factor in a 
 multiplayer game that is both unusually fun and even more unusually stable and complete right out 
 of the box, and you have what can only be considered an attempt by Interplay to make amends for 
 the horror that was Descent to Undermountain. Apology accepted.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jfnorberg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that I've really enjoyed playing for many years... I prefer playing this game using 
 the old Microsoft Force Feedback II Joystick (which, by the
  way) works just fine with Vista Home Premium OS... This is one of those games that was made for 
 joystick play, and I love it...
  I'm into older games (FPS) , as well as classic strategy (Sim City, Galactic Civilizations, Sins 
 of a Solar Empire, Earth 2150, etc.) ... But, overall, I've always enjoyed the Descent Series (Descent 
 I, 2 & 3) , as well as the Freespace Series (1 & 2) ... These games are challenging, without being 
 so complicated that it takes a rocket scientist to figure out how to play them...
  Some may like the more complicated games, but I really enjoy a game that I
  can play with a minimum 
 of hassle... That's Why I enjoy FPS & Adventure games a lot... On the other hand, there are times 
 when I get into strategy, and I expect them to be more "Immersive"...
  Overall, Descent is a game that I can, at times, come back to and play all the
  way through, 
 and enjoy the whole experience... It's one of those games that I can really never get tired of, 
 because a couple of times a year, it always seems like I'm in that particular mood to play Descent, 
 and I'm really glad I can...!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Excall
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Descent 3 had a number of improvements over the previous games in the series. The graphics were 
 awesome for the time and still hold up enough that you can play the game without getting distracted 
 by crappy graphics. This game featured outdoor environments and different mission types which the 
 previous games in the series did not have (they were all just blow up the reactor of doom and then 
 escape) . Probably the most amazing thing about descent 3 is the artificial intelligence which can 
 still be mind boggling today. I have many happy memories of trying to blast one of those little 
 bots and missing until I shot a concussion missile into a nearby wall so that the blast would destroy 
 it. The robots will run from you and then ambush you, and they are all pretty good at aiming their 
 slow firing lasers ahead of you so that they hit you. On the harder difficulty settings, every 
 encounter with even the smallest enemy can be a grueling battle where you are flying all around 
 a room (often upside-down) and trying desperately to hide behind potential obstacles. Needless 
 to say, boss battles can be epic. The awesome a. i. adds to another thing which the descent series 
 has always excelled at, and that is giving personality to emotionless robots. You will come to 
 hate certain robots (especially small fast ones and ones that sneak up on you and melee your ship 
 from behind) .
  
  WARNING: this game is not for the directionally-challenged or those who get dizzy easily. You will 
 be flying all directions, spinning around and blasting at everything that moves. There are bright 
 lights going everywhere from lasers, fog, and all kinds of other stuff that makes it chaotic visually. 
 I love it, but you may get sick from it (don't play it on a laptop while riding in a car - you 
 will get sick, trust me) .
  
  Multiplayer was and is a blast as always. It is a shame that it is so hard to find people online 
 these days, but my friends and I still have small lan parties sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopdogg89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  When you first start a game of Descent, the first thing that pops in to your head is: "What the...? 
 How am I supposed to fly this thing?" Ten seconds later, before you even see an enemy, everything 
 is clear: THIS GAME ROCKS. The huge tunnels that it adopted from its predecessors are incredibly 
 detailed and can even give the player a sense of claustrophobia. This, combined with the incredible 
 enemy AI, can definitely stir up a primal fear in rookie players and long-time series veterans 
 alike. For instance, say you are heading down a dark hallway. The light is flickering. There is 
 an eerie mist preventing you from seeing whatever might be waiting for you. As soon as you lay 
 eyes on the puny robot, you suddenly relax. Piece of cake. You fire two shots. Bang. Miss. Whoops. 
 One more should do it. Wait a minute... it's gone. You attempt to follow it down a corridor to 
 finish it off when, from around the corner, you see it. And it brough friends. BIG friends. 
  This is only a basic showing of how much the AI can do. The robots hide, go for help, plan traps, 
 ambush, some at you from the sides and behind, you name it, they'll do it. Just when you least 
 expect it, too. 
  There is nothing more terrifying in the gaming world than to have extremely low shields, searching 
 for a powerup, and to see a horde of inteligent enemies. Also, there is nothing more relieving 
 than coming out on top and collecting the shield powerups from the debris of your fallen enemies.
 
  That's only the closed environments. When you've defeated those enemies and are flying through 
 thte corridors and you find yourself outside, it's truly a feeling of relief.
  All I can say about this game is that it's incredible and that if you haven't played it, go pick 
 it up. Descent 3 was truly an amazing game that didn't get any of the attention it deserved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Massive, creative level design; the most creative enemies and weapons of any game; engaging 
 multiplayer; long single player campaign; distinctive and awesome sounds
  BAD: No storyline; campaign becomes too difficult and massive at end
  
  The original Descent 
 was one of the first games I played (along with Dark Forces) . I was just 6 years old at the time. 
 I had no idea a Descent 2 even existed until I heard about Descent 3. As soon as I started playing, 
 I was hooked.
  
  The Descent games have never been about storyline, so it was apparent from the outset that the 
 storyline wouldn't be very inspired. Descent is about massive levels, intelligent AI, awesome weapons, 
 and pure fun gameplay. Descent 3 has all of these. For the time, the AI was very intelligent, and 
 the creative robots used are still fun to fight against. The levels are massive and creative, and 
 a simple joy to explore. I will admit that the levels were too massive at some times, and the game 
 was very hard. Towards the end of the game, I constantly got lost and killed (even with the built-in 
 3d map) , but it was still fun to play. The weapons in the game are among the most awesome and fun-to-use 
 weapons in any game, ever. The black shark missile is pure genius. The single player game also 
 strays from the traditional find blue-yellow-red keys-destroy power plant formula, but there are 
 still plenty of keys to find (although no power plants to destroy) . I don't know if this was the 
 formula in Descent 2 though....
  
  For the time, the graphics were revolutionary, and even today they look okay. The sounds are amazing, 
 with cool techno music, realistic and distinguished sounds, and weapons that feel just as powerful 
 as they should. Once you're done with single player, which may take a long time, you can move on 
 to multiplayer. Cheating is uncommon and, just as in single player, the levels are creative and 
 fun to play in. This is one of the few games in which I got addicted to multiplayer.
  
  Overall, this game is massive and hard. Although the storyline is uninspired and the game is very 
 hard towards the end, overall the game is pure fun, with massive levels to explore, some of the 
 most creative weapons and robots in any game, fairly intelligent AI, and a good multiplayer game 
 to boot. If you enjoy 360 degree combat games, and if you can find this game somewhere, then by 
 all means, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts3
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 22, 2004 3:13 am PT
Review:  I wanted to love this game because I was a huge fan of multiplayer Descent 2 over Kali. So I basically 
 wanted descent 3 for its multiplayer aspect, but it let us down in more ways then one.
  
  This game tried to be a better multiplayer game then the original Descent 2. Descent really is 
 a niche game for the hardcore multiplayer gamers really. They dont make games like descent any 
 more, although you control a space ship, its more like a first person shooter except you can move 
 in every direction. But this is what makes the game extremely complicated and frustrating for anyone 
 that doesn't have the reflexes and dexterity to navigate and fly around in full 3D. I found the 
 descent franchise way way back in the old days and used to play it religiously over the internet 
 before games had native internet support. It was in almost the pre first person shooter days, in 
 the days of DOOM and DOOM II an Duke nukem 3D. 
  
  We used an IPX and server browser (before it was a server browser) called Kali to play games like 
 Descent, Doom, Duke nukem 3D and Warcraft 2 over the net. Descent 2 was one of the most fun multiplayer 
 games if you gave it a chance to get into it and become skilled at it. But in number three they 
 lost the magic, not to mention the single player game leaves a lot to be desired.
  
  Descent 3 is not a good single player game, it's barely passable. And it is very difficulty to 
 nagivate in a truly 360 degrees of freedom 3D game. People think first person shooters are "3D" 
 games, but try playing descent 3 online if you are bored of your standard first person shooters.
 
  
  It's remarkable that there are even reviews for this game since it is now in the bargain bins since 
 it is almost 5 years old now. It's an ok game to pickup and play but its nothing like modern single 
 player games for the PC or consoles. Descent is a game designed for multiplayer for its hardcore 
 fans, and for that it payed a price and bombed financially. They forgot to make the game fun in 
 single player. If you dont go in with high expectations and get it in the bargain bin, it's not 
 a bad game.
  
  If you dont mind running around 3D maze like environments, gathering keys to open doors and shooting 
 challenging robots. Then pick it up. If you want to have a totally different multiplayer experience 
 that is different from first person shooters, then try out Descent 3 and look for fan made upgrades 
 to Descent 2 on the internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 24, 2004 4:58 am PT
Review:  Picture a Rubiks cube trying to solve itself in a blender and you already have a pretty good picture 
 of what the Descent series has brought to the gaming table. But that's part of the style that has 
 made these games so popular. Descent 3 offers a more developed gameplay experience than the earlier 
 incarnations, but it isn't enough.
  
  * Gameplay: Love the smart missile with the camera attached. Storyline strays too conveniently 
 for the sake of level design. Excellent balance on ammo pickups. I always seemed to find some just 
 when I needed it. I was bit distressed at many levels that were too large with unclear objectives, 
 forcing me to ping-pong all over the place in search of the exit. Map feature practically unusable. 
 Also, many outdoor missions lost their sense of speed making me feel as if I wasnt going anywhere 
 fast enough.
  
  * Graphics: Great textures and lighting effects. Polygon count could have been higher. Reflection 
 effect a bit silly.
  
  * Sound: Pulsing techno beats mesh nicely with the gameplay. I especially like the way guns sound 
 when you switch them.
  
  * Value: Havent played the multiplayer so I cant comment on that. Had no real desire to replay 
 it once I was done, especially after having to cover much of the same ground over and over in search 
 of exits.
  
  * Tilt: I played the demo of the first Descent game and was mildly impressed. Only other space 
 combat games Ive played were in the X-wing/ Tie Fighter series.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
