-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Descent II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/descent2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 9.2, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 601 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Parallax Software
Genre: Action
Date:     Feb 29, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you don't like Descent at least a little bit, make no mistake, there is something wrong with 
 you. If the current proliferation of newsgroups, tournaments, supplements and level editors 
 is any indication, Descent is approaching the popularity of that other D game. What 
 more can be said about a true 3-D, real time, multi-player dogfight free-for-all with a killer 
 soundtrack? Descent II expands upon the original's x-y-z axis combat with 30 new levels (culminating 
 in a battle inside the enemy mother ship) , a scout recon robot which comes back for you if you 
 fall behind, a suitably loud and grinding soundtrack (by Ogre of Skinny Puppy, with Redbook Audio, 
 no less) , a particularly irritating "thief-bot" enemy that hunts you down and drains your energy, 
 and a new AI scheme which Interplay assures me will adapt to my style of playing (although I still 
 seem to be able to fool it with decidedly Germanic dogfight tacticshe who hath ears, let 
 him hear) . If you don't like Descent at least a little bit, make no mistake, there is something 
 wrong with you. Descent II's huge replay value and absolutely insane network play should ensure 
 its popularity for a long time   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MysticDynamite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  When Descent came out for the PC in 1995, it wasn't bought off the shelves instantly, but it was 
 well-received by critics and created a small but strong fanbase. Just one year later, Interplay 
 followed up its 6 Degrees of Freedom shooter in the form of Descent 2. Descent 2 continues the 
 gameplay of the original and adds to it, improving upon the predecessor.
  
  For those of you who are joining in, you play as a Material Defender hired by a futuristic megacorporation 
 called the PTMC to destroy mines on distant moons in the Solar System infected with a robot virus. 
 You are given a ship called the Pyro GX to fly. With this ship, you can make 360 turns and fly 
 in all directions while in the mines. This has been known to make some people vomit, but is still 
 fun to do.
  
  In this game, you are sent out by the PTMC AGAIN to clear out infected mines in deep space. As 
 pissed as you are, you accept because you are forced to, or else your contract with the PTMC will 
 be terminated and you won't get the money you so desperately want.
  
  In the original game, you fought virus-infected robots while gathering powerups along the way. 
 Two extremely important powerups, the energy booster and the shield booster, were necessary if 
 you wanted to survive. The energy booster gave you energy required for you to use your weapons, 
 and the shield booster is pretty self-explanatory. If you get hit without any shields, you die. 
 The robots were either a nuisance or a fatal encounter, but the game got especially epic when it 
 put some of the larger ones in groups. The weapons, such as the Laser Cannon and the Mega Missile, 
 all remained tactically useful throughout the game.
  
  Descent 2 continues its offering of tactically useful weapons, as well as offering a roster of 
 new and stronger weapons, such as the Gauss Cannon and the Mercury Missile. It also offers some 
 new powerups, such as the Full Automap, and the Afterburner. These make the game a bit easier, 
 but they ultimately improve the already superb gameplay. The robots themselves continue to offer 
 a challenge, but the nuisance known as the Bandit, is the toughest to defeat in each level. I find 
 chasing him down strangely appealing and challenging. Additionally, the robots are more armed to 
 the teeth in this game, making the game a bit harder while still keeping the game fresh. The game 
 also offers a little helper called the Guide Bot, who helps you find various things in the mines. 
 Sometimes, he's helpful, but at other times he's annoying. The worst part is that you can't destroy 
 him. But you can shut him up when he gets too annoying.
  
  Graphically, Descent 2 looks as good, if not better, than its predecessor. The first game suffered 
 from occasionally poor texture alignment. This game, however, does not. The textures in Descent 
 1 looked a bit gritty, but the textures in Descent 2 look less gritty, but a bit more cartoonish. 
 Same goes for the robots, referring to how their models look.
  
  Soundwise, the game offers more crisp sounds, but it lacks the creepy music of the original. What 
 you get is some cheerful rock music and, if you turn it off, looping MIDI tracks that aren't creepy 
 at all and get tired after hearing them for the 700th time. The good news is you can always shut 
 them off.
  
  You can also build new levels in Descent 2 thanks to the easy to use DMB2. The thrilling multiplayer 
 also offers plenty of replay value.
  
  To sum it up, this game is definitely worth getting, even if you aren't a fan of the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Descent 2 will make you feel dizzy, lost, alone, and claustrophobic, but you'll keep coming back 
 for more. The Descent series is an FPS (first-person shooters) trilogy where the player is a mercenary 
 hired to destroy mining robots that have gone out of control due to a computer virus. At the end 
 of the first Descent the mercenary had completed his mission to destroy the mining operations throughout 
 the solar system. The player picks up right where it left off, being outfitted with a warp drive 
 to take care of some mining operations in other systems.
  
  The sequel offers a few new weapons, new enemies, and a visual update including hardware accelerated 
 graphics (he graphics are still dated by 2007 standards) . It uses the same interconnected-tube 
 level design that the first offered, though some maps are twice the size of the original. The level 
 designs are often symmetrical, leading to serious vertigo and occasional I think I passed that 
 sign twice already moments. The biggest update, however, is to the enemy's artificial intelligence. 
 The computer stalks the player, dodges attacks intelligently, and runs away when damaged. It will 
 hide behind doors, snipe, and otherwise use very human tactics, making the second installment far 
 superior to the first.
  
  If you are a fan of first-person shooter or space flight simulators and never played the Descent 
 series, you owe it to yourself to dive into the bargain bin for a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biohazard2801
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 30, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Right from the opening movie, you can tell that Descent II is going to be a great game. Then you 
 get into the actual game, CD music, high resolution and 3D graphics galore. Oh, and plenty of delicious 
 explosions.
  
  The single-player mode is only the icing on the cake though. Move up to the multiplayer mode, and 
 things get even better. Heated CTF battle over a LAN in 360 degree freedom with zero gravity is 
 one of the best ways of using a server, and that all adds to the overall package.
  
  The game is a bit too easy, though. The last level boss is destroyed by shooting a weak spot on 
 it's back - it's invincible everywhere else. But you can destroy it with a couple of Earthshakers 
 placed on the wall behind it - and by then you should have at least 5.
  
  All in all, Descent 2 is a huge improvement over the original game and a must buy for everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadeki
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is a really (really, really) old game, but the memory of playing it is still very stong. 
 At the time of its release there were some very popular FPS games coming out for the PC that got 
 most of the attention, but this game was simply amazing. As an early on-line game, it was one of 
 few. As a tactical space combat shooter, it was unequalled. As a fan of the Enders Game series, 
 I found this game to be the closest thing I've seen (even today) to the experience described as 
 'Battle School.' With 3 dimensions at your disposal, a ship that would flip, roll, and go forward 
 and back with ease, the control was complete. In an environment with no real up or down, your tactics 
 were key. I recall a thread in a popular game forum at the time titled "your shiny red butt" which 
 discussed the nuances of hiding the red engine flares on the back of your ship by backing up against 
 ceilings and walls to ensure you weren't seen at a distance. The AI was challenging and the online 
 game play was at least as smooth as CoD2 today. I still keep an old PC/video card around today 
 to occasionally load up Descent II and fly about in the caverns. If only someone would release 
 it with today's hardware under it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brown767
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay every body loves a 3d killing game, Descent? It's much better their is +30 new levels+ 15 
 more wepons+ 15 new boss levels- hey i love it! i don't wanna spoil it! so buy the full version 
 or contact me! ( how to get the omega canon. okay i think its in level 18-21? i forgot but when 
 you come of the blue door and out fire your primary weapon. it should hit a sealed door. follow 
 your guild bot and you should get to a door. in the middle when you cross the flowing lava go left 
 and destroy the control panel, located in the 'x' walls. go back to the blue door and turn around 
 fire your a weapon and you should get in a room, get the power ups but really get the cloaking 
 pill. then the thief bot cant get you or the earth shacker missle. go to the edge of the room and 
 go down then you'll get the yellow key and the omega weapon ( used in the boss on the ice level) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeberwood
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  Descent 2 is unbelivable. Ever since I first played it on my dad's lap with a Wingman Extreme joystick, 
 I have never forgotten it for a minute. From the short recon hop in level one to the epic, 300ft 
 diameter final boss at level 9, I never got sick of playing Descent 2.
  The level of depth is completly endless. 9 levels of lasers, headlights, afterburners, and the awesome 
 Earthshaker missle are just gravy on an already great burrito. On each level you must fight through 
 mining robots gone bad to the reactor or boss robot. When it is destroyed, it triggers a self destruct 
 sequence. You'll have 90 seconds to escape. Don't worry though; at the beginning of the level you 
 can free a guidebot, the only friendly robot, to guide you to the door keys, boss and exit.
  As for the sound, variety rules. I admit I was scared when I first heard "self destruct sequence 
 activated!", heard the frightening diamond-claw tear at my ship, or heard the deep sound of the 
 bandit, here to steal your items. Each of the weapons have awesome but belivable sound effects, 
 explosions rock the speakers and each droid has a signature screech. Sounds on Descent are absolutely 
 flawless.
  In the playability category, the controls are instantly accessable for all, and each weapon has 
 realistic recoil and shaky results on the ship. Switching weapons is completed easily with a tap 
 or double press of a number key. Simplicity for all.
  In the end, Descent 2 is unbleivable. I enjoyed it when I was 4 and I enjoyed it now. Pick it up 
 now. 'Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homsuplo75
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 6, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best shooters of it's time. There are of course far better shooters nowadays 
 but back when Descent 2 came out it was one of the best. Enough with that...
  
  Playing this game is easiest when you have a good joystick. The one that I used had 6 buttons and 
 a toggle hat on top of the main stick. That made the game pretty easy to control because of the 
 various possibilities. 
  
  The graphics are pretty intense and the gamplay is outstanding for this shooter. This game is pretty 
 addictive and will have you playing for hours especially if you enjoy the underground aspects of 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 8, 2005 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so no one is using a P1 anymore but that doesn't matter. What does matter is that WHEN 
 everyone had a P1 this was the game to have.
  
  Descent II follows the original in a few ways but contains more innovative level design. The first 
 5 are filled with highly pixelated textures and are pretty easy to get a feel for. The remainder 
 of the game... just big mazes -- sometimes to the point that I was completely lost and didn't know 
 my way out.
  
  In the end what kept me playing the game was online multiplayer over a 3rd party program called 
 KALI. Kali emulated a SLIP connection over TCP/IP and allowed you to play multiplayer over dialup. 
 It was good. And it was fun.
  
  A word of advice on multiplayer: Stay away from all levels named Minerva or any variation thereof.
 
  
  The game itself is worth a spin if you like vehicle shooter games. I had a blast and there's much 
 to like Material Defender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2005 2:50 am PT
Review:  This game is ancient by any standard. It came out in 1996 of all years, way back in the pre-internet 
 game days. That was 8 years ago. The single player in this game is nothing to write home about. 
 The whole story revolves around you being a mercenary contracted to clean out infected mining robots 
 in the mines owned by the "evil corporation" called the PTMC.
  
  The single player game consists of running around in a ship that moves more akin to first person 
 shooters then it does to flying. You strafe and move in this game essentially as a "floating man" 
 in first person. The game was OK for its time but I got it mainly for multiplayer which I discovered 
 over playing games like Warcraft to over Kali. This was one of the games you played in the early 
 days of the internet when games had no native internet protocol support and had to be run over 
 special emulator software that transported the Local area network packets over an emulation software 
 layer like Kali in order to play and join multiplayer games as if you were all connected via a 
 local area network.
  
  The game really shines in multiplayer its one of the most well balanced and fun games designed, 
 despite its rather ugly graphics. You can get open source updates by the fan community to the game 
 that add modern OpenGL support so you can play on the latest ATI and Nvidia cards.
  
  Descent is like the Chess of gaming, its simple and almost boring to look at by outsiders of the 
 game but deep and insanely fun to play once your inside the descent multiplayer universe, you will 
 realize what first person shooters are missing - the skill to truly navigate and dodge weapons 
 in a truly 360 degree of movement environment.
  
  Pro's:
  
  -If you're looking for a fun multiplayer you've never played before game try this one out. Check 
 out www. kali. net for the free software.
  
  -Some of the best multiplayer gaming in existance, even in 2004!
  
  -You'll want to get D2X 
 - Found here at the time of this writing - http://www. icculus. org/d2x/
  
  Cons:
  
  -It's an old game
  
  -Single player is really bad by 2004 standards
  
  -You'll need to 
 find the open source D2X to run it on 3D cards found here (at the time of this writing - http://www. icculus. org/d2x/ 
 ) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
