-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Desert Thunder
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/desertthunder/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 5.2, 5.5 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 28 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Groove Games
Developer: Brainbox Games
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Nov 18, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're hell-bent on seeing a bunch of explosions, you'll find some things to like about Desert 
 Thunder. If you're looking for anything more substantial, look elsewhere. 

  A budget-priced game that adopts some of today's hottest technologies -- in this case, Unreal's graphics 
 engine and MathEngine's vaunted Karma physics modeling -- is not something you see every day. It's 
 especially rare when it's blended with a storyline that's not only contemporary but also downright 
 pertinent to current headlines. Nevertheless, this is precisely the formula behind Groove Games' 
 Desert Thunder, a  tank-based orgy of ordnance. The good news 
 is that Desert Thunder is a sensory overload of explosive, destructive good times that'll cost 
 less than a family outing at the local fast-food joint. The bad news is that the game is so easy 
 to learn and so very arcade-oriented that anyone who appreciates longevity, tactics, and even a 
 modicum of authenticity will inevitably be disappointed.  

          Though uncommon, enemy air strikes are a visually impressive part of Desert Thunder.   
   

  Designed by first-time developer Brainbox Games, Desert Thunder is a rough-and-tumble affair that 
 puts you in the role of a tank commander who is stationed in an unnamed Middle Eastern hot spot. 
 As is customary for most games of this ilk, you are the only remaining representative of the "forces 
 of good." Everyone else has been permanently wiped from the map, and scheduled reinforcements are 
 nowhere to be found. As a result, you and you alone must now battle hordes of unidentified terrorists. 

  As the game opens, you'll find yourself looking down upon your vehicle from a slightly elevated 
 rear-chase perspective. You may raise or lower this vantage point and adjust the camera so that 
 it follows either your swiveling turret or your tank, but otherwise, this is the only camera in 
 Desert Thunder. Zooming is not permitted at any time, neither in the main window nor in the miniature 
 topographical map/radar located in the lower left of the screen. You cannot access enemy views, 
 weapons views, or binocular views, nor can you look freely about the countryside. And you can't 
 jump inside your machine for a first-person perspective, either.  

  This absence of perspective variance is one of the big problems in a game that concerns itself 
 primarily with the fine art of tank warfare. Though Desert Thunder often requires you to battle 
 enemies over great distances or when hidden just behind a hillside or massive outcropping, it doesn't 
 offer the necessary viewing tools for the job. Additionally, the game doesn't give you any method 
 for controlling -- or even knowing -- the maximum length, the proposed arc, or the trajectory of your 
 upcoming cannon or minigun volleys. Instead, you can only adjust your positioning and move your 
 turret up and down blindly, not really knowing if you have a good read on the current situation 
 until you've actually fired off a couple of volleys. Worse still, you can't adjust your cannon 
 into a steep enough orientation to effectively lob shells toward short distance targets. Consequently, 
 if you need to attack an enemy who's just 50 feet away but is positioned on the other side of an 
 obstacle, you're forced to bring yourself, at least partially, into the open to do so. Furthermore, 
 you're never able to stealthily tuck yourself away behind an object, which prevents you from skillfully 
 working out a proper trajectory for your attack.  

  That having been said, Desert Thunder is far from a stealthy game. In reality, this is an action-packed 
 arcade-style game. Moreover, unless you really need to use a given object for cover, the suggested 
 tactic is to shoot  everything  that looks even marginally shootable. That list includes live enemy 
 vehicles, the smoking hulks of damaged enemy vehicles, large fortresses, small structures, guard 
 towers, airplanes, and even perfectly innocent boulders and palm trees. Why? Because there's a 
 chance that by taking out that big rock in front of you, you'll also impact or kill the enemy who's 
 hiding behind it. Furthermore, many of the seemingly most innocuous objects house the very staple 
 of the Desert Thunder world -- the power-up.  

          You'll blast plenty of scenery to bits.     

  Yes, Desert Thunder has power-ups. When 
 you begin the game, you have an infinite number of basic cannon shells and basic minigun rounds. 
 But to appreciably advance, you need the beefed-up ordnance you can only find through power-ups. 
 Whether you uncover a high-impact shell, a homing shell, a hellfire shell, an armor-piercing minigun 
 round, or a 10-percent or 50-percent repair token is unknown, but you can bet that you'll discover 
 at least one of the above in every three or four rocks or palm trees that you demolish.  

  Certainly, you'll need all the help you can get when you move beyond the game's "easy" level to 
 the "standard" level and then to the ultra-demanding "difficult" levels. Newcomers will undoubtedly 
 want to first try their hands at easy mode, where they can most often barnstorm through their enemies 
 without too much fear. Here, they'll face substantially smaller numbers and significantly less-destructive 
 firepower. However, when campaigning the "standard" or "difficult" levels, the sheer number of 
 enemy forces and the damage factor of their weapons grows by leaps and bounds. At the difficult 
 setting, wherein adversaries attack the moment you become visible, the game's lack of advanced 
 targeting and camera/zoom functions becomes a serious detriment. Ultimately, you'll be compelled 
 to play in a fastidiously cautious fashion by creeping along -- sometimes an inch or two at a time. 
     

  As challenging as its difficult level is, Desert Thunder can never be accused of being a long-term 
 affair. Indeed, in easy mode, most experienced action players should polish off the entire game, 
 from beginning to end, within a single afternoon. The question then becomes whether the excitement 
 of seeing the exact same landscape in the exact same linear fashion (but with far more enemies 
 and harder-hitting weapons) is enough of a driving force for another go. If you're the type who 
 appreciates a good firefight and oodles of impressive explosions, it probably will be. If you're 
 looking for more variety or a more deeply engaging or authentic experience, it probably won't. 
 In the end, even the most ardent fan will have trouble seeing this game through more than just 
 a few days.  

          A city battle in Desert Thunder.     

  From a purely visual standpoint, Desert Thunder feels both stripped-down and impressive at the 
 same time. On the upside, the game's resemblance to the latest versions of Unreal is evident. Though 
 the stars of the show -- the tanks -- are somewhat primitively rendered, the majority of the scenery 
 is relatively solid. Enemy soldiers are authentically drawn and are fully reactive to the situation. 
 They may react a bit oddly at times -- by walking into the open and letting loose with their rifles 
 or rocket-propelled grenades -- at least they don't stand there motionless. As for enemy tanks, the 
 truth is that it's difficult to distinguish a T-72 from a more powerful T-90. The slickest vehicle 
 of all is the mobile antitank vehicle, which launches a spectacular flurry of homing missiles that 
 inevitably find their target.  

  The game is at its best when you're simply out there blowing stuff up. Whether targeting a group 
 of enemy foot soldiers on a bridge, a top-heavy guard tower, or just a brick-built apartment building 
 on a city street, you can be rest-assured that the item in question will explode in a profusion 
 of smoke, fire, and broken parts. Certain players may also enjoy the bloody thrills that come from 
 running down a foot soldier or blowing one off of a rooftop.  

  Nevertheless, the presentation is clearly not as sophisticated as it could be. Most vexing is the 
 game's distance-fogging, which impacts the game aesthetically and makes far-off targeting an impossibility. 
 As soon as an enemy comes into view, it has most likely seen you as well. Additionally, there simply 
 isn't enough vehicular variety. Your own tank looks the same from beginning to end, whether it's 
 taken heavy damage or has just received a bevy of power-ups. The same applies to enemy vehicles, 
 which show damage only when they finally succumb to you (though they never receive any upgrades) . 
 Even the game's final enemy, an experimental Russian-made tank, doesn't look all that impressive, 
 even if it is an enormous beast with several cannons.  

          Whether you're defending an airport or just blowing up rocks, Desert Thunder won't last 
 you very long.     

  There are other annoyances scattered throughout the Desert Thunder world as well. It does not support 
 multiplayer battles, it keeps track of just one saved game at a time, and its mandatory rear-chase 
 view often becomes muddled in nearby scenery. The game's sound is fair, exhibiting big booming 
 cannon fire and some truly cataclysmic explosions, but it simply isn't varied enough. When you 
 get to the third or fourth hour of gameplay -- which in easy mode may be near the end of the game -- you'll 
 be hoping for anything to break up the repetition.  

  Because of its cost-conscious price point, Desert Thunder can be forgiven for some of its foibles. 
 And it certainly delivers some absolutely hellacious firefights and tons of cool break-apart items. 
 Nevertheless, though, a game that offers so little playtime, so little variety, and so few options 
 cannot be considered great -- at any price point. If you're hell-bent on seeing a bunch of explosions, 
 you'll find some things to like about Desert Thunder. If you're looking for anything more substantial, 
 look elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Andrzej83
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game was actually less then what I expected it to be, the game graphics are not to bad for 
 what the game offers. The animations are quite terribal and the game only only alows very simple 
 game play from driving to shooting. For a gamer that likes the simple shootem up game its ok but 
 for anything else i would not suggest the game to anyone. For game realism it scores about a 3 
 out of 10 as all the soliders that you shoot always do the exsact move and fall to the ground. 
 I end my review with a few simple suggestions about the game, if you are looking for a brainless 
 shooter then give it a world but if you are looking for a better game try M1A2 assult tank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  When I was at the dollar store, and I saw Desert Thunder *desert thunder* (this game doesnt dererve 
 capital letters.) Anyway, I saw it at the dollar store for $4 and I thought, how could I go wrong, 
 after all, all great games are cheap! So I got home and I opened it up. Here are some first reactions. 
 Wow, this game is based on the unreal engine... too bad unreal engine 3 is out... hmmm next generation 
 graphics, 2 generations behind!?!? WOW! impressive! That must mean the game is REALLY good, to 
 have unreal 4 graphics in the Unreal 1! I read the storyline, it was incredibly bad, I mean it 
 wouldnt matter if there were 80,000 T-72s, they couldnt destroy 100 M1s, we proved that in the 
 Gulf War but hey whatever, thats cool, because you know, all great games have horrible story lines. 
 Next looking at the cover, several more reactions, there is a really unimposing picture of a big 
 tank driving through barbed wire... ummm... how cool... Yeah, and then on the back... I see a picture 
 of guess what.. AN EXPLOSION! which is really what this game is based on. With the explosion I see 
 someone flying through the air. More on that later. Anyway, turning on the game, I see it has no 
 multiplayer... wow... its 2007, how does this game not have multiplayer? But still, thats great, 
 metroid prime was a great game, and it didnt have multiplayer, this game was sure to be great! 
 So I start it up... and the first thing I realize is.. I cant run through barbed wire? SO WHAT THE 
 HECK WAS THE POINT OF THAT HORRIBLE COVER THEN!? wow.. whatever... so anyway, I run over a burning 
 tank, and it shatters... I never knew that if you ran into something destroyed, it would shatter... wow... realistic, 
 that must have what they were talking about when they said amazing real-world destruction effects. 
 So another great, realistic feature of this game is how when you shoot, you can see your shot slowly 
 moving throught the air to the target, in a ball of smoke.. I always thought that tank rounds almost 
 instantly hit the target, boy how wrong I was, I wish I had had these Stunning visuals and realism 
 in all my other games! So I go through the game and I am getting so bored. But all games make you 
 bored! I predict that if I play Halo for 475 hours straight I might become somewhat bored, so this 
 game is like all other great games. Anyway, that was about when I veered off the trail and ran 
 into a rock... and it shattered... wow. I couldnt believe it, I laughed off my chair. Soon I found 
 out, Everything you run into shatters! Awesome, trees, shatter, rocks shatter, frikin huge boulders, 
 shatter, other tanks.. blow up. Enemy soldiers.. RUN THEM OVER! BLOOD GOES FLYING EVERYWHERE! ITS 
 LIKE SOMEONE THREW A BLOOD GRENADE AT ME OH MY GOODNESS! Next, I love how when your tank gets hit, 
 blood comes out... I mean, sure... all tanks bleed, especially top secret, almost invicible M1A6 
 tanks. I read the back again and found out, luckily, that there are only eight missions. I stopped 
 playing the game after the second.. it was just too miserable. But there is one more thing I would 
 like to comment on. I really cant stand how you have to run over the power-ups directly to get 
 them. I mean in every other game you just have to get in the general area to get the power-ups.. not 
 in this game. You have to run directly over them, and if you miss them, it is so hard to back up 
 the stupid tank, you may as well just skip the power up! And dont say it is more realistic , because 
 after all, in the real war, tanks just run over health and armor piercing rounds to get them, I 
 mean, if I went to the desert I could just walk around and be like WOW look! 246 armor piecring 
 rounds.. oh! and there is an M-16, and the silencer add on and ... so forth... so you get the picture. 
 I just wanted to say, who ever would have thought blowing stuff up could be soo boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  *Insert something about me being a cheap ass* Yes, on the box it says that things blow up all the 
 time. That was the main reason why I was getting this game. You basically drive around, shoot a 
 lot of stuff, and then go to the next level.
  
  I'm pretty sure that there isn't really a story to this game. You just start the level and go from 
 point A to point B, shooting everyone with your main battle tank. I don't have a problem with this 
 game because the word I like stress is 'Game'. Today's games are all about complex storylines and 
 character interaction and similar stuff! What happened to the good old days of the Sega Genesis, 
 when all you had to do was run from one side of the screen to the other?
  
  The graphics are pretty good. The still screenshots provided on Gamespot don't really cut it. It 
 looks much better in motion. I haven't played this for a while, but what I remember about the graphics 
 was that the explosions are very good (they'd have to be for this one) , The game's models are pretty 
 good looking, and the environments are good enough. The debris had full physics as well. You could 
 shoot down watch towers which was pretty awesome. And I vaguely remember there being enemy foot 
 soldiers who would shoot at you with rifles annoyingly. I'm pretty sure that you can break them 
 into gobs of blood by running them over. Strangely, shooting them with the main cannon only made 
 them go ragdoll instead of gibbing.
  
  The controls and sounds are workable. I never had problems in any of these two areas.
  
  I 
 might be able to recommend this game. You'd have to be pretty desperate to blow up buildings, though. 
 On a final note, I'd like to take a chance to say something about the very annoying cd checker. 
 Maybe it's StarForce. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
