-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Desert Rats vs. Afrika Korps
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/desertratsvsafrikacorps/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  1, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.2, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 171 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: Digital Reality
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Mar 31, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As good as the game looks, some flawed mechanics and a general lack of polish keep it from being 
 as fun as it should be. 

  Fast tank attacks have been a real-time strategy convention since Red Alert, but tactics in historical 
 tank battles are much more complex than the typical RTS slugfest. Simple details like weaker side 
 and rear armor and a multitude of different models help give the tank battles in Desert Rats vs. 
 Afrika Korps a historical feel without slowing the action down. In the midst of it all, the 3D 
 combat looks great and features intricately modeled, smoothly animated tanks and destructible buildings. 
 Unfortunately, when you factor in having to control a handful of different infantry types and various 
 support vehicles -- in addition to the tanks -- the real fight can turn into overcoming bad pathfinding 
 and unwieldy numbers of units in the guise of a generally unhelpful interface.  

          Reinforcements are few and far between, so you must take care of the units you start with. 
     

  The fight over North Africa in 1942 is certainly the right setting for some compelling battles. 
 The simple historical fact that the momentum flip-flopped between Axis and Allied forces sets up 
 a campaign that walks you through key phases of that fight. The German campaign puts you in command 
 of an Afrika Korps unit that's regrouping from temporary setbacks. It eventually leads you to a 
 massive set battle over the heavily defended city of Tobruk. The subsequent Allied campaign then 
 picks up the timeline and sees you taking the fight to the decisive German defeat at El Alamein. 
 Rather than mixing with famous generals like Rommel and Montgomery, the game invents characters 
 who very occasionally interact during in-engine cutscenes. However, mostly they make themselves 
 heard in journal entries that precede the mission briefings and also play a part in the battles 
 as hero units. At best, the journals humanize the conflict, while the hero units give some context 
 to scripted in-mission events.  

  Desert Rats vs. Afrika Korps is a tactically focused game, so there's no resource-gathering or 
 unit-building in the missions. After each of the mission briefings, which helpfully include summaries 
 on the historical context and timeline of the North African theater (as well as specific mission 
 objectives) a unit selection screen comes up that lets you buy or trade the units that you'll start 
 the mission with. Each of the many unit types is given a point value to balance its worth, so late 
 in the German campaign, you might choose to trade away support vehicles or infantry to get a couple 
 of vastly superior Tiger tanks. However, they are very expensive. Since rarely do you get reinforcements 
 once the scenarios start, choosing the right units is key, as is conserving and repairing them 
 once the battles actually begin. The approach makes the battles tenser, but it can also lead to 
 a lot of restarting or loading of saved games.  

  Each of the various units has its purpose, and many early scenarios seem designed to show you just 
 how important the support units are for scouting, spotting for long-range strikes, removing mines, 
 towing artillery, and so on. However, there are so many different types of infantry that it's nearly 
 impossible to consistently use them to good effect. Snipers and flamethrowers are just as powerful 
 as you'd expect, but such units take a lot of micromanagement and move much slower than the mechanized 
 units you're also commanding in real time. Just making things worse is the unreliable unit pathfinding. 
 Units -- even infantry perilously stationed in front of tanks -- aren't smart enough to get out of 
 the way, so orders can go ignored until you manually open a path. The fact that the single-player 
 missions can be paused at any time keeps things playable, and it provides the time necessary to 
 employ tactics rather than just allowing you to band-select units for an attack en masse. There 
 are enough secondary actions -- such as having infantry go prone, digging tanks in defensively, or 
 specifically targeting turrets or treads -- that proper tactics give even a small fighting force 
 the power to tear through overwhelming odds.  

  Desert Rats vs. Afrika Korps succeeds in making large battles look convincing. Tanks roll from 
 the kick of main cannons firing, turrets smoothly turn to track targets, destroyed vehicles explode 
 and leave charred hulks across the African sands, and buildings that hide infantry show progressive 
 damage, since round after round collapses walls. Zooming the camera right up to units reveals quite 
 a bit of detail, but the realistic visual style means it's hard to distinguish infantry types at 
 normal zoom levels, so they often get jumbled together. The levels themselves don't often look 
 like much more than various sandy locations that are stationed with defensive bunkers or are overlooking 
 hills for artillery emplacements. However, each does provide distinct challenges, and the urban 
 levels are suitably dense with buildings, where enemy grenadiers or flamethrowers can lie in ambush. 

          Tank battles can be explosive, leaving charred vehicles and wrecked buildings in their 
 wakes.     

  Since only a portion of the scenarios feature all-out combat, the multiplayer would seem like a 
 good choice when you're looking for big battles. The game does include a few multiplayer options, 
 including a straightforward deathmatch mode as well as one that challenges you to capture flags 
 that are scattered around the map, while each side receives periodic reinforcements. However, the 
 interface's weak points become readily apparent once you're trying to command individual foot soldiers, 
 repair trucks, antitank guns, and tanks all at the same time. And the number of multiplayer maps -- just 
 three in configurations for the various modes -- is insufficient. We also experienced significant 
 lag playing on a local network.  

  Rough edges in other areas can occasionally detract from the game. While the sound effects for 
 vehicles and explosions are generally spot-on and make the actual battles that much more intense, 
 the voice acting for mission events is leaden, and the national accents are somewhat off. We also 
 ran into a smattering of crashes and even had the keyboard shortcuts simply stop working on more 
 than one occasion.  

  There's no reason why a WWII real-time strategy game that combines fast action, historical detail, 
 and tactical mechanics can't be a resounding success. Desert Rats vs. Afrika Korps makes good use 
 of the material and provides some thrills when battles play out explosively, but as good as the 
 game looks, some flawed mechanics and a general lack of polish keep it from being as fun as it 
 should be.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: InFiDeLUk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  The Main problems with any RTS games (Real Time Stratergy) are what I like to call Overkill Underkill 
 And Simply BTDT 
  
  Being a die hard RTS gamer for many years I've had the pleasure of some excellent gaming expeirences, 
 and DR V DAK has provided much enjoyment for me since I bought it.
  
  Just so you know.
  
  Overkill Menaing far too much in the game making it a plain nuisence to play at times. Such 
 games incluse Perimiter and Tomb Raider Legend (yes not an RTS game) disagree if you will, but 
 Tomb Raider has lost it's Tomb Raiding aspect and the enjoyment of exploring strange places. You 
 want to raid Milletery bases and dodge laser trip wires play Tom Clances Splitner Cell.
  
  Underkill Obvious, not enough into the game.
  
  BTDT Been there done that. Didn't I see this 
 in C&amp; C or what ever.
  
  Anyway, enough rambaling on with the review.
  
  Desert Rats Vs Dutch Afrika Corps emplys a truly beutiful standard of gaming, the detail is superb 
 and the sound effects are nearly spot on however in the Gamespot review, I would agree that the 
 voice over accents are somewhat poor.
  
  The Gameplay is fairly easy to get used to, micro management is not diffacult once you get used 
 to it. If your used to mico management in other RTS games, then this will be a dodle as it was 
 for me.
  
  If you a patient gamer and don't just want to dive into the combat then great, if however you just 
 want to dive right into a blood fest then this game is NOT for you so don't bother buying it as 
 you will get irritated by the game play style.
  
  Being a player who likes to take his time, plan things carefuly and deploy and position appropiate 
 units in equally appropiate places I found this game a true joy to play.
  
  Such examples are carefully killing vehcale crews, securing the unocupied unit, then driving to 
 a save position. Evan If I don't use the unit in the actual battle I still go out and try to get 
 it. In one Single player allied mission I actualy had a line of 20 or so trucks and light vehicles 
 behind my defence line. I found a great deal of satisfaction in securing so much hardware :)
  
  However one disapointment is the lack of reinfocements in the game. You may end up with a shed 
 loads of vehicles at your disposal, but only a few infantry units to drive them. On a plus side, 
 you can just drop your infantry into the vehicles, so unlike Panzers Phase 1, you don't have to 
 mess about with specialised tank crews. Now on to realism.
  
  Some unrealistic factors in the actual method of fighting where seriously badly done. Infatry would 
 just stand there geting shot by armour unless you order them to do otehrwise. In Company Of Heroes, 
 my current RTS fad the infantry are very smart and get out of the way, plus use available cover 
 automaticly. In DR however there is no such AI realism. Somehting out right stupid was you would 
 end up with more of the enemy vehicles under your control than that of your own side. as capturing 
 disables tanks and repairing them seemed the easiest way to proceed. My final campaigns consisted 
 of Nearly all of the opposing sides units. Allthough I like capturing Tiger Tanks if playing as 
 the Allies, then turning them against there former owners. It remains to be said that it's a little 
 stupid. As for if you destroy a tanks turret, the crew automaticly abandon the vehicle, leaving 
 a tank ready for repair. In WWII, they would never allow such vile lack of judgement. Do you realy 
 think the Axis would be stupid enough to allow the capture of one of there Tigers?
  
  The detail of the units and vehicles however is excellent, highly realistic and imence. however 
 the lack of a weather aspect was a shame, and tanks fiaring and moving should kick up alot of dust. 
 They don't! Sound effects are great, very acurate as I have personaly heard the sound of fiaring 
 88mm PzKw VI Tiger Turret and likewise that of the US M4 Sherman (however the American 75mm gun 
 and british model Pdr76.2mm sound very different so you could say it's actualy an unrealistic sound?.. anyway 
 I'm just a boaring tech sod, it hardly matters) . The impact damage sounds are somewhat... plastic. 
 nearly always the same, and sometimes not very realistic. like the sound of dropping a spoon in 
 a bathtub trying to sound like dropping a stone.. different. But overall good sound.
  
  The amount of vehicles available isn't atall bad. theres something for everything there. I personaly 
 would love to see the care put into picking appropiate units placed into other games. Company Of 
 heroes for example could have a great expantion adding Brittish and Russian units. in CoH, you 
 can use the allied M26 Pershing tank, would be great to see that fighting allongside a Brittish 
 Churchill. We live in hope :) I was disapointed that there was no German Panther tank in this game, 
 however to my knowlage the Panther was never used in the Afrika Corps. but still, would have been 
 nice.
  
  Onto multiplayer, Once the Single Player is done, thats it realy, there are no custom scenarios, 
 no map editors to make your own campaigns, and tragicly theres no skirmish mode. so you can eithe 
 rplay the single player again, or shelf it for a while. As for there is NO multiplayer aspect. 
 yes the feature was put in, but no body ever playes it and unless it's been since fixed hosting 
 a game was a privalage so few players enjoyed. So evan if there where players online, there would 
 be a wrestle to get into the few games available.
  
  So what do I think of the game? I think it's a brilliant In depth dream for a pure RTS player, 
 good units, good Single player missions and great graphics.
  
  Seen as I never include Multiplayer aspects in my rating, I have given it 8.2 / 10. a good score 
 for a great play.
  
  Thanks for reading, and I appolagise for rambaling on at times, and any bad spelling.
  
  - 
 Kane Taylor
  
  If you want to try organise a multiplayer match, want to talk about the game, the review or anything 
 realy, feel free to contact me. I do have msn also on the email below. Thanks again and enjoy the 
 game.
  
  - ss_elite@msn. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flashfever
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 6, 2004 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Afrika Korps is a tactically focused game so there is no resource gathering or unit building in 
 the misions. Sound: sound effects, voice acting and music is mediocre to fair. Game play: Interface, 
 control balance are rough generally. Value: Longevity and replay value will be weak because of 
 no skirmish maps and micromanagement over unintelligent units, unfortunate pathfinding. Gameplay 
 may lead to excessive restarting and loading of saved games, basically because of flawed in-game 
 mechanics and a general lack of polish - which will keep this game from being fun for most. I would 
 consider the game insufficient compared to other competitors. I would approach this game with caution. 
 I feel that the unit selection screen, where you can buy and trade units, is a distraction. Simple 
 upgrades to unit capabilities would be a better idea here. There is no ability to call in air or 
 artillary strikes and it would have been nice if more reenforcements or paratroopers could have 
 been introduced in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2004 3:35 pm PT
Review:  One word... Wow I mean this is a keeper I to tell you the truth WWII RTS doesnt get much better 
 than this I found this game so incredable I mean its just great. I only found a few things wrong 
 realistic wise such as Rifle man units use bolt action guns but fire like semi auto rifles. And 
 the rifle man were great looking awsome best infantry graphics ive seen! All with the exception 
 of the guns they held were too 2D looking but its nothing really noticable. Combat was great EXPLOSIONS 
 ARE THE BEST IVE SEEN INCREDABLE!! The only thing that bugged me so badly was its replay value 
 is good as in if you lose restart its ok but it HAS NO SKIRMISH! I thought for sure this game would 
 have it buts its more like Blitzkreig type game with missions but even then Blitzkreig had skirmish 
 you could even create your own map but this game was pure mission/scenario or Story mode which 
 is mission/scenario except with a story line with diffrent hereos mixed up and stuff but really 
 theres only 2 rare missions that arent the same from the scenario. Besides not having a skirmish 
 this game WAS AWSOME TOTALLY WORTH ONLY $40.00 thats $10 off from your usual price its just SO 
 FRIGGEN good I reccommend this game so highly to any RTS, WWII sim, Blitzkrieg players and lovers 
 its totally worth it but if your just playing for skirmish sorry your luck is out story only. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
