-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Desperados: Wanted Dead or Alive
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/desperadoswanteddeadoralive/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 23, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 8.0, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 648 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Infogrames
Developer: Spellbound
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 23, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The vivid and inviting setting in Desperados can't make up for some substantial gameplay flaws. 
 

 If Desperados: Wanted Dead or Alive looks a lot like the Wild West version of Pyro Studios' Commandos: 
 Behind Enemy Lines, it's a case of where appearances  aren't  deceiving. Instead of being set in 
 World War II, this character-based real-time strategy game puts you on the old American frontier. 
 You'll gather up a group of desperados to recover money stolen from a railroad, and then you progress 
 through a series of clichd plot twists centering on dirty dealing, double crossing, and lots 
 of Mexican banditos led by a villain named El Diablo. Familiarity doesn't always breed contempt, 
 though, and the game's atmosphere is engaging and even charming, precisely because it plays so 
 well on our Hollywood vision of the West. Unfortunately, the vivid and inviting setting can't make 
 up for some substantial gameplay flaws.           Desperados does a great job with its Western 
 theme...    

  In your adventures, you'll control the main hero, John Cooper, plus his gang of five desperados, 
 each with around six unique abilities. For instance, Cooper can climb sheer rock faces or perform 
 a quick triple shot with his Colt revolver to take down three opponents at once. Explosives expert 
 Sam Williams tosses dynamite at enemies or startles them with a snake he keeps in a sack. One-eyed 
 Civil War veteran Doc McCoy heals other characters and knocks enemies out with sleeping gas. Kate 
 O'Hara, an expert poker player, seduces villains by sliding her skirt up to reveal her garter, 
 and she can temporarily blind opponents by reflecting the sun in her mirror. A nimble Chinese girl, 
 Mia Yung, fires a blowpipe dart at enemies to make them hallucinate or can distract them with her 
 pet monkey, Mr. Leone. The hulking, clumsy Sanchez entices villains into a drunken stupor with 
 his tequila bottle and clears buildings by throwing people out the windows.   

  In 25 levels with integrated tutorials, you'll lead Cooper and his gang through a variety of story-based 
 adventures. In typical missions, you'll rescue a fellow desperado from a heavily guarded paddle 
 steamer, break into a heavily guarded hacienda, or sneak across a heavily guarded town. In other 
 words, the mission settings are varied, but the same can't always be said about the gameplay.  
          ... but the gameplay itself isn't as successful.    

  To best your ornery, trigger-happy foes, you'll need to use a blend of stealth and cunning, plus 
 a little good old-fashioned head busting and gunslinging. You'll often use your characters' special 
 abilities in concert to solve dilemmas. For instance, you can have Kate employ her seductive charms 
 to lure an amorous henchman around the corner, only to get punched in the face by Cooper. Coordinating 
 all your characters can be a real chore, though, since they do nothing on their own. The characters 
 should have at least been given some autonomous actions, like ducking for cover or returning fire 
 when rushed by villains.   

  To beat the missions, you'll need to take advantage of terrain by ambushing the bad guys from rooftops, 
 hiding in tall grass, or crawling below ridges. You can scan the whole map at any time and can 
 check each enemy's field of view independently, even if you can't see him directly. His line of 
 sight shows up as a sweeping green cone, akin to Commandos or Metal Gear Solid. Guards usually 
 act intelligently and will go on a heightened state of alert if you make too much noise or leave 
 dead bodies lying in your wake, so you'll need to consider every action carefully. In a pleasantly 
 realistic touch, even innocent bystanders will get in on the act and shout for help if they spot 
 something fishy.    

 Even though this is the Wild West, gun battles usually aren't the best option for solving problems. 
 The game encourages you to try other schemes and stratagems, though gameplay too often seems very 
 scripted. Many times, you won't really feel in control of your adventures, but rather as if you're 
 trying to jump through the game designers' hoops, puzzling out the one supposedly proper solution. 
 Finding the right hoop to jump through is as much about repetitive and tedious trial and error 
 as it is about your ability to concoct clever tactics. The game frequently crosses the fine line 
 between enjoyably challenging and frustrating, and there's no difficulty selection to rectify that. 
 Ideally, if you make a poor choice, it should result in a temporary and challenging setback, not 
 instant death and a restart. Get ready for countless saves and restores.           The action will 
 be very familiar to fans of Commandos.    

  A context-sensitive cursor at least helps you interact with and navigate the environments fairly 
 easily. The interface is attractive and generally functions well, letting you either click onscreen 
 icons or use hotkeys to initiate particular actions, the latter being far more practical when the 
 map is swarming with enemies. Some functions, like the telescope icon that displays enemies' view 
 cones, require either too many or counter-intuitive mouse clicks. It's also unnecessarily hard 
 to click on a moving character, which can be a huge problem when you need to kick someone in a 
 hurry as he charges around the corner. Fortunately, the interface features a quick action function 
 that lets you store preselected actions as macros. So, to make things easier, you can set Kate 
 to kick a particular opponent once in range with the click of a button. But ideally, you shouldn't 
 need to go through these extra steps in the first place.   

  If nothing else, Desperados features a gorgeous visual style. Akin to the Commandos or the Baldur's 
 Gate series, the action takes place in 2D against beautifully painted semi-interactive backgrounds. 
 Countless little details will catch your eye, like the sagging roof on an old shanty, the flower-covered 
 trellis against the wall of a stately plantation house, or stucco peeling off an old Spanish-style 
 mission church. The scenes are alive with passing townsfolk, and horses and livestock remind you 
 that you're on the frontier. Smooth character animations provide added entertainment, thanks to 
 clever touches like Cooper tipping his hat when he meets a stranger. The full-motion video cutscenes 
 feature the same attention to detail and some stylish direction. Just the opening scene of horse-mounted 
 bandits robbing a moving train does a wonderful job of drawing you into the gameworld. If the graphics 
 have a flaw, it's that zooming in on a scene produces ugly pixelation; it looks like you're viewing 
 the image with a paint program's magnifying glass tool.           Trial and error will eventually 
 see you through the missions.    

  Unlike the visuals, the sound effects don't offer anything special, and the voice-overs (the Achilles' 
 heel of so many games) could have been much better. The actors fall prey to stereotypical accents 
 and Western genre clichs, and some of the Mexican characters sound more like Italians. The 
 actor playing Cooper tries way too hard to sound like Clint Eastwood -- better to leave that famous 
 delivery to the master himself. Frequently childish dialogue doesn't help the actors' efforts, 
 either. At least the well-crafted music is entertaining.   

  It's a shame that the enjoyable setting of Desperados isn't used to its full potential. It just 
 can't make up for the difficulties in coordinating your characters or struggling with excessively 
 hard missions. As an action-oriented puzzle game, Desperados has a fair amount to offer, but as 
 a true strategy game where you really feel in command of events, it usually misses the target. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  You play as John Cooper, a freelance cowboy of sorts as he rounds up band of clichd outback personalities 
 to track down a load of stolen loot from a train heist. You'll also control John's crew, including 
 a dynamite tossing, wisecracking cowboy, a fugitive doctor with a long shot, a sultry seductress 
 and a big mean hombre. There is also a young lass towards the end of the campaign who is a passenger 
 more than a contributor. Through 25 missions of part RTS, part third person quasi-action, the group 
 visit a number of recognisible wild west locations and leave a mighty body count in their wake 
 as they get to the bottom of who's behind the train heist. But this isn't an all-action, extravaganza. 
 It's more like micro-planning and management of your characters, step by step and enemy by enemy 
 where stealth and evasion are better options than confrontation. Expect plenty of frustration, 
 plenty of reloads (quick save will be your best friend) but in the end plenty of satisfaction as 
 you clear each mission.
  
  The graphical representation is very good indeed. It is presented in 2D but with some wonderful 
 environments and structures that live and breathe in real time. All the clich's are there - the 
 wild west towns, the homesteads, the prisons, the outlaw's dens in the mountains, the long narrow 
 road through the pass and so on. But they are very easy on the eye. The characters are will defined 
 and others in the environment go about their business in a realistic kind of way. There could be 
 an argument that the overall gaming interface is too small, which leads to an ordinary pixel rate 
 if zoomed. The are some cut-scenes which are competently done and the HUD-like presentation is 
 easy and accessible once familiarised.
  
  The sound is reasonable but there's not enough of it (or it's not varied enough) for a game that 
 goes on for a while. By about the half-way mark you are well and truly over the repetitive comments 
 of your posse and the music (whilst probably competently composed) starts to wear thin. The in-game 
 environmental effects are basic but functional. What's there isn't bad, there just needed to be 
 more of it.
  
  The gameplay itself is going to polarize gamers. This is a hard game. Very hard. Most gamers natural 
 instincts of going in all guns blazing will result in certain death. Instead, you need to move 
 you characters around the environment in almost chess-like fashion to evade or ambush your foes. 
 And they are plenty of them, of which it's a sensible option to deal with them one at a time. All 
 characters have useful traits. Cooper has a mean right cross and a decent six-shooter. Sam has 
 a snake that comes in handy (if you can conceal it) and is an explosives expert. Doc can heal and 
 knock foes of from a distance with a sniper style weapon. Kate lures the foes with her attractive 
 demeanor, leaving them open for crack to the jaw from Doc. Sanchez should be in the WCW. After 
 some time the gamer will have a system in place to overcome obstacles through a variety of combinations 
 are strategies. This will also mean that some characters spend missions in the corner as there 
 is just too much to control.
  
  But there are some issues. You have to do everything for your characters. You'll be on one side 
 of the map making good progress but lose a character because an enemy has happened upon one of 
 your non-active characters at the other end of the map. Characters should be able to hide, evade 
 or even attack at the sign of threat, but they don't. Timing is essential. This is micro-management 
 personified, with a lot of pointing and clicking.
  
  There will also be a lot of trial and error. One step too far will lead to detection and death, 
 and let's hope you've quick-saved recently. I have never quick-saved so much in any game. A follow-on 
 issue is that the game demands perfection. One step wrong will almost always lead to demise, rather 
 than a disadvantage  but something that could be overcome. The very nature of the game also means 
 that one successful attack will arouse the attention of several foes of whom you can't possibly 
 compete against. And so you run, hide and wait for a minute or two until they forget what's happened 
 and go back to what they were doing. These issues will have some gamers flinging the CD across 
 the room very early on.
  
  Some of the missions are enormous. The jailbreak is an imposing mission, with the odds heavily 
 stacked against the gamer. However, with a lot of patience and planning you do get there  but 
 it takes disposing of all enemies. It's a long mission but when you finally jump on the horses 
 with Sanchez freed there is a sense of supreme satisfaction.
  
  The story is developed quite sensibly, leading almost 'Heart of Darkness'-like to the ultimate 
 foe. It keeps you interested and determined to complete each mission, no matter how much the odds 
 seem stacked against you. The irony wasn't lost on me that one of the more refreshing missions 
 was the final one, where the whole mission approach changed. Perhaps this is a hint of what was 
 to come in future franchise titles. However, the ending cut-scene was a let-down but the overall 
 feeling on completing the game was one of achievement. I nearly gave up on the game early on, but 
 something kept me going. In the end, I'm glad I did.
  
  Desperado's took me over 30 hours to complete. It's a long hard slog and one expected a bit more 
 of a rewarding conclusion at the end of it all. But that's the way it goes. Completing each mission 
 was rewarding enough for me - with one or two literally taking hours. I can't see any replay value. 
 However, it's a longer title than most on the market.
  
  The best part of this game for me was the price. Free. It came as a full game title with an Australian 
 PC Magazine in January 2006. For those who like this sort of title (similar to the Commando's franchise) 
 it could be secured for a decent price, and there was also a sequel released last year to the same 
 mixed reactions.
  
  In the end, I am glad I persevered with Desperado's and saw it to the end. It is a different approach 
 to gaming and for every bit of frustration there was compensating satisfaction in completing the 
 missions. It requires patience, planning and a lot of reloading, but there is something about it. 
 Don't bother if you are an action gamer. But others should give it some thought. It's a long, hard 
 but ultimately satisfying campaign in a very agreeable environment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cranberry2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Gamespot compared both this game with Commandos: behind enemy lines but they should compare it 
 to Commandos: Beyond the Call of Duty . They have the same gameplay, same beautifull scenarios, 
 same difficult level. Gamespot gave them both Dificultty: hard and almost same score 6.6 and 6.8. 
 For me they just got wrong with the rating of these games. 
  
  The fun factor of these games comes from freedom and challenge, is like the old games where it 
 was impossible to win, but these are not impossible at all, though they are hard, but it cant get 
 really like a foult. Games can be easy or hard, but its all intentious, and you can get different 
 kind of fun from both the styles, thought I think games need challenge much more there are now 
 interactive movies like they say, that mostly are easy but can be enterteining but not this one. 
 
  
  The game is trully hard, I remember of the mission for the chinese girl where it appeared to me 
 impossible to pass trhougth, but by doing it step by step, with patience, you can. And you can 
 even learn something form this, for life I mean, not a major thing. It give you experience, and 
 encourages you to go on by each lvl you complete, so I put these by Grows on You label. Like I 
 said for Commandos, is the difficult at some parts, and the beutifullness of the scenarios that 
 makes the game remarkable for you, and games that mark you are the good ones. Thats the thruth. 
 You sure remember of this game a long long time, if you play it long enouth. I loved the horses 
 parts, very few. Just to get out of the mission, you need to get the saddles, but thats all could 
 have more use of them, I like horses, so that was something they could improve, its the weast ok?. 
 I dont got to beat the Commandos game becouse I choose not to play in the last mission, but I beat 
 this one and killed Diablo. Kind of sad when if finished. It gives much freedom, so you can do 
 tricks, and kill buch of enemies at times to easy for you, not always go killing 1 by one. You 
 learn strategies to take them and I have a incredibly good one, Ill tell later not spoilers now. 
 
  
  So im trully glad I have played these games, they gave me a new concept of difficulty and helped 
 me get to other games, I loved played them and was very rewarding, sometimes fustrating (the game 
 who never fustrates you ISENT a good game) and sometimes fun. Lots of saves and reloads. If you 
 want read my review in Commandos: Beyond the Call of Duty, so you can understand, they are both 
 nice games that everyone should try out. 
  
  
  
  
  Spoiler/Trick
  
  Just one method I used, there is a farmer/slave guy that has a snake, that snake die easy by 1 
 shoot but you can use it very effectivelly making your time much easier at corners, butt also at 
 roofs I dont know if others know of it. The best place I found to use it was in the roofs of houses. 
 That was awesome. Since the enemies kill the snake at sight, and it kills instantly with no venon 
 limitation, so in the hoofs that has a stair to it, you put the snake at the hole of the hoofs 
 entrance, by the stair, and give some shoots to atract enemies and they will go after you, then 
 you crouch by the snake (save the game before doing, sometimes if the snake isent well placed the'll 
 kill it) then it will beggins to kill LOTS of guys going up to the roof, just save by every buch 
 killed, there are times when by unlucky it get killed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  If your a commandos fan or even a fan of a good decent strategy game then desperados is definitely 
 for you to play. The story is western style and moves just like a good old western movie, there 
 are 6 characters to play with (remember commandos?) and each of the characters have their own personality 
 and their own style. The game play is old school and not too hard to manage, the abilities of the 
 characters are great and fun to use, there are so many ways you can complete a mission. There are 
 21 missions to play from, all of them are very well designed and are fun to play. The graphics 
 might not be top notch but still do the job, not many special effects to see but each mission has 
 its own different atmosphere, lets not forget the great character models (look better in the bik 
 cut scenes) . The sound and voice acting is amazing although the music feels a little repetitive 
 but you won't really feel that much.
  
  The closing lines are that if you enjoy Commandos or any similar strategy game, you must play desperados.
 
  
  9.5 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  this is one of the greatest games ever made
  Desperados Wanted Dead Or Alive is one of the best pc games i ever played ! i played several times 
 till now and the game it is not difficult at all ! The good point of that game was that it was 
 a good alternative for Commandos. Desperados Wanted Dead Or Alive was a clone of Commandos and for 
 me he was better than Commandos.
  Desperados offered a good story, for this kind of games. This game is lots of better than other western 
 games available for PC, simply because there isn't any similar western games, so you cannot compare. 
 The caracthers are very good and their actions are wide making it fun and easier.
  graphic and sound is exellent and gameplay is very fun. this game is 2D and graphic is not very 
 high but design of game is very good.
  the western space of game is very cool and i am very happy than play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Are you fan of Clint Eastwood? Western movies? Than thats the game you been searching for. In the 
 game you control more charters at the same time. Each charter got his own abilities and weapons. The 
 story is happening in in central America. The story is very good, but the game can be sometimes very 
 hard. Desperados is a clean copy of commandos, but the game is steel good.
  Not a legend, but a game for some time. Hard gameplay, this is one of the
  reason&acute; s that the 
 game is not so good.
  
  Graphic: Beautiful towns and other things in the game.
  
  Sound: Like in other similar games (good) .
  
  Gameplay: Nice gameplay, but some missions are very 
 hard to complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xpac12
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I recommend this game to an and all who live! this is one of the greatest games ever made.... anywhere. 
 But it's mostly cause its awesome. don't take my word for it Go and get it right now.... or else... i 
 swear man don't make me mad dude.... And BTW Doc, Sam, Cooper, and Sanchez rule your family!
  This game is very great. i want to see more and there maybe one coming out soon they did good on 
 this one very much worth the money and more. its one of those never get old kinda games I beat 
 it 4 times and want more. this is a must buy for any one who likes C&amp; C AoE or even Red dead 
 revolver. its really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The Wild West has never had a major appearance in games (though that has changed recently with 
 Gun and Call of Juarez) . Law of the West on the Commodore 64 was the first game of the genre I'd 
 played and it's been slim pickings since then. Desperado's: Wanted Dead or Alive is an alternative 
 take on what is expected and when all is said and done it is an immersive game that works well 
 despite some frustrations. But gamers beware - if you are an 'all guns blazing' action seeker, 
 steer well clear of this title, where the term 'inch by inch' is very apt indeed.
  
  You play as John Cooper, a freelance cowboy of sorts as he rounds up band of clich&eacute; d outback 
 personalities to track down a load of stolen loot from a train heist. You'll also control John's 
 crew, including a dynamite tossing, wisecracking cowboy, a fugitive doctor with a long shot, a 
 sultry seductress and a big mean hombre. There is also a young lass towards the end of the campaign 
 who is a passenger more than a contributor. Through 25 missions of part RTS, part third person 
 quasi-action, the group visit a number of recognisible wild west locations and leave a mighty body 
 count in their wake as they get to the bottom of who's behind the train heist. But this isn't an 
 all-action, extravaganza. It's more like micro-planning and management of your characters, step 
 by step and enemy by enemy where stealth and evasion are better options than confrontation. Expect 
 plenty of frustration, plenty of reloads (quick save will be your best friend) but in the end plenty 
 of satisfaction as you clear each mission.
  
  The graphical representation is very good indeed. It is presented in 2D but with some wonderful 
 environments and structures that live and breathe in real time. All the clich&eacute; s are there 
 - the wild west towns, the homesteads, the prisons, the outlaws dens in the mountains, the long 
 narrow road through the pass and so on. But they are very easy on the eye. The characters are will 
 defined and others in the environment go about their business in a realistic kind of way. There 
 could be an argument that the overall gaming interface is too small, which leads to an ordinary 
 pixel rate if zoomed. The are some cut-scenes which are competently done and the HUD-like presentation 
 is easy and accessible once familiarised.
  
  The sound is reasonable but there's not enough of it (or it's not varied enough) for a game that 
 goes on for a while. By about the half-way mark you are well and truly over the repetitive comments 
 of your posse and the music (whilst probably competently composed) starts to wear thin. The in-game 
 environmental effects are basic but functional. What's there isn't bad, there just needed to be 
 more of it.
  
  The gameplay itself is going to polarize gamers. This is a hard game. Very hard. Most gamers natural 
 instincts of going in all guns blazing will result in certain death. Instead, you need to move 
 you characters around the environment in almost chess-like fashion to evade or ambush your foes. 
 And they are plenty of them, of which its a sensible option to deal with them one at a time. All 
 characters have useful traits. Cooper has a mean right cross and a decent six-shooter. Sam has 
 a snake that comes in handy (if you can conceal it) and is an explosives expert. Doc can heal and 
 knock foes of from a distance with a sniper style weapon. Kate lures the foes with her attractive 
 demeanor, leaving them open for crack to the jaw from Doc. Sanchez should be in the WCW. After 
 some time the gamer will have a system in place to overcome obstacles through a variety of combinations 
 are strategies. This will also mean that some characters spend missions in the corner as there 
 is just too much to control.
  
  But there are some issues. You have to do everything for your characters. Youll be on one side 
 of the map making good progress but lose a character because an enemy has happened upon one of 
 your non-active characters at the other end of the map. Characters should be able to hide, evade 
 or even attack at the sign of threat, but they dont. Timing is essential. This is micro-management 
 personified, with a lot of pointing and clicking.
  
  There will also be a lot of trial and error. One step too far will lead to detection and death, 
 and lets hope youve quick-saved recently. I have never quick-saved so much in any game. A follow-on 
 issue is that the game demands perfection. One step wrong will almost always lead to demise, rather 
 than a disadvantage  but something that could be overcome. The very nature of the game also means 
 that one successful attack will arouse the attention of several foes of whom you cant possibly 
 compete against. And so you run, hide and wait for a minute or two until they forget whats happened 
 and go back to what they were doing. These issues will have some gamers flinging the CD across 
 the room very early on.
  
  Some of the missions are enormous. The jailbreak is an imposing mission, with the odds heavily 
 stacked against the gamer. However, with a lot of patience and planning you do get there  but 
 it takes disposing of all enemies. Its a long mission but when you finally jump on the horses 
 with Sanchez freed there is a sense of supreme satisfaction.
  
  The story is developed quite sensibly, leading almost Heart of Darkness-like to the ultimate 
 foe. It keeps you interested and determined to complete each mission, no matter how much the odds 
 seem stacked against you. The irony wasnt lost on me that one of the more refreshing missions 
 was the final one, where the whole mission approach changed. Perhaps this is a hint of what was 
 to come in future franchise titles. However, the ending cut-scene was a let-down but the overall 
 feeling on completing the game was one of achievement. I nearly gave up on the game early on, but 
 something kept me going. In the end, Im glad I did.
  
  Desperado's took me over 30 hours to complete. It's a long hard slog and one expected a bit more 
 of a rewarding conclusion at the end of it all. But that's the way it goes. Completing each mission 
 was rewarding enough for me - with one or two literally taking hours. I can't see any replay value. 
 However, it's a longer title than most on the market.
  
  The best part of this game for me was the price. Free. It came as a full game title with an Australian 
 PC Magazine in January 2006. For those who like this sort of title (similar to the Commando's franchise) 
 it could be secured for a decent price, and there was also a sequel released last year to the same 
 mixed reactions.
  
  In the end, I am glad I persevered with Desperado's and saw it to the end. It is a different approach 
 to gaming and for every bit of frustration there was compensating satisfaction in completing the 
 missions. It requires patience, planning and a lot of reloading, but there is something about it. 
 Don't bother if you are an action gamer. But others should give it some thought. It's a long, hard 
 but ultimately satisfying campaign in a very agreeable environment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Major_Gamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  a Great game Lot's of Lot's to do in it tell you beat he he a good load of Shooting in it witch 
 is always good so all the other things this game has a lot too offer you get to use other people 
 to kill your targets and you get to use a Knife to kill with out anybody use gas to knock them 
 out and use fist to knock them out cold too witch is cool and you can use other thing's like Kate's 
 cards or her leg thing she does then kick someone who's close then the mirror to blind them use 
 a watch and for guns you can use a six Shooter a Rifle long range army revolver a shotgun a three 
 shot pistol darts that makes them go haywire and kill there buddies get to go to all sorts of places 
 do lots of cool crap but it's a game I'd tell someone to play it's worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespoo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant, in don't know what gamespot meant with the 6.8, this game is brilliant 
 there are hundreds of possibilities, like stealth or drawn out battle.
  
  there are 6 characters with loads of different abilities.
  the levels have varied objectives 
 and stuff, like breaking into a bank.
  
  each character has a tutorial level to teach you the basics but you have to learn yourself.
  
 
  the music is great and so is everything.
  
  there is just one problem i found.
  
  the level in the demo isnt in the game, and i thought the demo level was brilliant, it was the 
 main reason i bought the game, come on its brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I heard about this game through a friend back in 2002. The idea of Commandos like game in the Wild 
 West was very appealing, and without reading the reviews, I bought the game.
  
  It cost me 500/- at the time, which was very expensive. But the moment I started the game, I knew 
 I made the right decision to buy it. 
  
  The game begins with John Cooper, a bounty hunter trying to apprehend El Diablo, and for this, 
 he has to form a team with his friends. The first few missions are about rescuing his friends from 
 rather delicate situations, which also serve as tutorial missions. Once they are recruited, the 
 game moves at a very fast pace.
  
  The locations are varied, and there are day and night missions as well, something that was never 
 seen in a Commandos game before. The graphics are fantastic, with a lot of attention to detail. 
 I have not encountered any technical faults with this game, the end product is very polished.
 
  
  The story, though very simple, is very well told and the game unfolds like a motion picture. The 
 cut scenes are not intrusive, and they are very well done. The sound is excellent, along with voice 
 acting.
  
  The cut scenes are often hilarious with arguments between Doc and Sam. All in all a fantastic game 
 play experience. It's a pity that such games are not released anymore. This is mostly because it 
 lacks any multiplayer support and once finished, it's not compelling enough to play it over again. 
 The game can be difficult, and that will not attract casual gamers.
  
  Typically these games require hours of planning for each move, and one mistake means death for 
 the character and end of the game.
  
  A victory in such games is very satisfying. Fans of this genre will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haohmaru11
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  Desperados Wanted Dead Or Alive is one of the best pc games i ever played ! you gotta be a good 
 gamer to play this !... i played several times till now and the game it is not difficult at all 
 ! u just have to be fast with keyboard and mouse ! the thing is ... if u are used to play only with 
 the mouse ... the game will be extremely difficult ! okay ... the game is very addictive and i suggest 
 to play it when nobody is around ! it is a very cool game ... with very cool graphics ! too bad 
 for Desperados 2 that is 3D ! have FUN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDutch
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  Desperados is game which one is addicted for a long time. I have played it already for a fwe years 
 now. And I still have fun with the game. In each level you can play missions, but also if you would 
 like take all the residents of a town hit them 'knock out'. And tie en up, so if they get awake 
 they shouldn't run away. 
  On the other hand if you take away somewhan others may out notice. And will come looking for them. 
 
  
  In the beginning of the game, John Cooper needs to get his team at one point. He needs to save 
 Sam from a mean Baron. (Sam is there a slave) After that he needs to save Doc from hanging. And 
 Kate is discovered while cheating playing poker. And is loked up. 
  
  Playing with diffrent caracters makes it even more fun, becose all the people have diffrent thing 
 they can do. So you need them all to be succesfull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankshi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  This is the first game ever that kept me playing till midnight! Desperados is highly addictive 
 and you won't notice how fast the time passes by. Characters in Desperados are introduced well, 
 they gradually come into the game one by one starting with John Cooper, the center character. The 
 gameplay changes when these characters come in, as they all have different ability, their different 
 personalities make the game feel different too. The gameplay is very underated.
  
  The graphic is very well done too, especially at the time it was made. The buildings, land, water 
 reflections, lighting looks very artistic. Again underated.
  
  Another thing is that the cutscene are amazingly done.
  
  I have replayed this game more than 
 3 times, and never got bored!
  
  If you like stealth/action/adventure game, who cares about gameplay and storyline, but not believing 
 everthing critics say, PLAY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carotiernita
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 24, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Spellbound has made this kind of games a long time ago. Chicago 1930 was one of them. The good point 
 of that game was that it was a good alternative for Commandos. Desperados offered a good story, for 
 this kind of games. The gameplay was very addictive, and it has the same difficult than the commandos. The 
 different age in which the game is going on gives variety and the scenarios are well done and artistically 
 correct. The caracthers are very good and their actions are wide making it fun and easier. The music 
 was good, after all for that time it wasn't bad at all. The sounds of the game, shots, screams, and 
 footsteps are clearly good. The difficult if you play it many times surely doesn't have to be a 
 problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundgarden22
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 11, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  A strategy game very similar to commandos. The game is set in western times, and you take control 
 of band of vigilantes led by John Cooper, the game takes you over 25 levels, and they vary from 
 being trapped in the middle of a war, and breaking in to banks and rescue missions. There are 6 
 characters in the game, with all unique skills, which gives you a wide range of possibilities to 
 solve each level
  
  Even though the atmosphere in the game can seem i little more childish than commandos, it only 
 brings in a little humor in to the game, f eks when town people discover a dead body, they will 
 react in different ways, that can be very funny, and some times annoying.
  The enemy`s in the game, has very different intelligence, while some will be lured by a bottle 
 of tequila and and ``seductive women`` others will immediately call for back up. And one important 
 difference to commandos is that the enemys in the game will react to their surroundings, f. eks 
 if one guy is patrolling a route, and suddenly every one around him has ``disappeared`` he will 
 call for back up, and make a search party.
  Another important feature, even though it is small, is that you have to reload the firearms - Some 
 times while i was playing commandos, and i was in a tight spot, all i had to to is find a nice 
 spot for my crew, draw out the guns, attract the attentions the germas, and just fire away! I`m 
 not saying that you can`t do this in deperados, only that it is limited
  
  The not so good aspects of the game is that, some characters in the game will just be useless as 
 you progress in the game, some skills, even though unique to the character, can be done better 
 by another. And some skills will be useless to harder (more intelligent) enemys in the higher levels 
 of the game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: litnek
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  The game takes you well in the western theme. The game has some kind of aura that keeps you to 
 the game. It has 6 characters that are all with diferent characteristics. They also have different 
 skills and abilities and each one of them are useful at some point. The game has 25 missions, where 
 6 of them are only showing the abilities of your characters. So, there are total of 19 normal missions. 
 The story of the game is that cool that you want to play it more when the game is over. Anyone 
 who have played robin hood or commandos, should try this game out. The gameplay is basicly the 
 same, but this game has a story, unlike commandos, where you just have to accomplish mission after 
 mission. Overall, this game is way underappreciated and should have gotten more points than 6,8. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  What did make Commandos great? Graphics? Sound? Replay value? No... The outstanding and amazing 
 gameplay! Sure, the graphics, sound and replay value was also great but, it was just superb! And 
 then Desperados Wanted Dead or Alive came out, an even more outstanding game, of the same genre! 
 Some people and some of my friends, doesn't like Desperados because, they felt like it was a wannabe 
 Commandos game. But after my opinion, Desperados is so much better! 
  
  The game takes place in New Mexico 1881, when the Bad really were bad, and the Good did what they 
 could. You first play as John Cooper, a bountyhunter, who is given a task to find out who is behind 
 some train robberies. Cooper first gathers his posse and later in the game becomes a bountyhunter 
 gang of (the magnificent) six. Every character you control has their own unique abilities, like 
 Cooper's knife that he can throw at short distance or Doc McCoy's ability to snipe enemies at long 
 distances. And each character has their own primary weapons. For example a sawed-off shotgun or 
 a Winchester rifle.
  
  The gameplay, as mentioned before, is almost the same as Commandos, but this time in the Wild West. 
 Desperados has some cool facts and things you wont find in a typical strategy game. For example 
 the "Quick Action" that will help you plan your tactical moves. This action will for example make 
 Cooper shoot three enemies in a row, as fast as a blink of an eye. The enemy AI is actually very 
 intelligent sometimes. An enemy can for example hear much better in dark levels, because their 
 line of sight is reduced. But sometimes an enemy can handle a situation very... dumb. If you shoot 
 an enemy from a distance with a gun, all his mates will run around searching for you, and the 2-3 
 minutes later they give up and pretend nothing happened... will you do that if you were one of 
 them?
  
  The graphics is actually surprisingly good. The game is made in 00/01 and the graphics in most 
 game aren't the best. But these graphics are okay, but sometimes a little annoying. The overall 
 levels are well done and very variated, and the character models too. The cutscenes could have 
 been better, but anyways okay. But the explosives effect sucks! 
  
  The sound has some cool things to offer. The music especially! When everything's okay in the game 
 and you haven't been spotted, the music creates a nice mood to silently kill some bad guys. And 
 when you're spotted the music turns more dramatic and you know what's comin'! The voice overs isn't 
 that well done. Good thing that you can skip it. The weapons sounds is a little too simple, but 
 you can live with that. 
  
  In the replay value, it depends what mood you're in to play a level again. Maybe you've finished 
 an extremely tough level, then you maybe wont have what it takes to replay the level another time. 
 But the first levels which I think is very fun, you can play them again and again. It takes a long 
 to get tired of the game!
  
  The GooD:
  - Awesome gameplay, one of the best to date!
  - Fun storyline, makes you almost die to know what next level is about!
  - Great music, keeps 
 the mood up!
  - Each character has some cool things to show in a level!
  
  The BaD: 
  - Half of the sound effects isn't the best.
  - Disappointing ending.
  - The training levels 
 is also disappointing.
  
  Overall, Desperados Wanted Dead or Alive is a game every strategy-tactic game lover should own. 
 This game will have you on the edge of your seat! So go buy the game, like I did!
  
  - please recommend this review and I'll recommend yours!
  
  Dope999
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bqian90
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The reason people gave this game bad reviews was because they felt that controlling the people 
 was confusing and awkward. I brought myself to the second to last level when I first got this game... 
 I must have been around 11 or 12. 
  
  The game is definitly challenging and frustrating, but what makes the game much easier is it's 
 Quick Save/Load feature. If you mess up, you can try again, and that will almost always help you 
 out in a hard situation. There were occasional bugs, like walking in an enemy's FOV on accident, 
 and the enemy not doing anything. 
  
  This game is much like "Robin Hood: The Legend of Sherwood", however, in Desperados, killing is 
 very much allowed. Quick actions are much better done in Desperados, and the storyline isn't too 
 bad. It's fun using each individual person for their specialty to get past a certain level. Of 
 course, there's always that certain level where you can abuse a kill tactice. (Such as when you 
 break into Sanchez's base, put Sam on top of a tower, put down the snake, fire a few shots, and 
 the people will come running up the ladder and get bitten. 
  
  In retrospect, this game was definitly worth the money I spent on it and as the Classification 
 says, it's quite Underappreciated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clovers16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Desperados is a game that packs quite a good storyline along with some great action packed moments. 
 The game really gives you the feel of the wild west and the cowboy times. The gameplay is mostly 
 fun and the story is well developed. If you are not a fan of games that are controled by a mouse 
 then you might not like this one.... however it is simply a game that should not be missed. the 
 levels are all breathtaking and look great and truly capture the essence of the wild west. the 
 characters are a clolourful bunch to say the least and all vary form great friendly characters 
 to pain in the ass characters. If you are looking for a good adventure game, you've found it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikey007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Yes its true, we had a fight because i was playing this game too much! That should be a true indication 
 on how addictive this game is, or how bad our relationship is going, but needless to say, this 
 is one under rated game!
  
  One question sprouts to mind when I read the gamespots review, What was he doing? Fighting with 
 his girlfriend maybe? Because he was certainly not playing this game thats for sure!
  
  Played or heard of commandos? we'll this is like that but set in the Wild West & with better graphics 
 & refined gameplay.
  
  There is so much to love about this game so let the loving begin:
  
  The good:
  
  * Graphics. they deserve the 1st mention because they are just so damb cute! 
 The sceans are hand made & you can tell allot of attention has gone into them. The screenshots 
 dont do credit
  
  * Awesome game play. This is a biggy because i still play 1980's games all because they have killer 
 game play. Its addictive & affective, hell, i wanna play it right now!
  
  * Stealth. Its done very well in this game. Hide in shadows, make deliberate noise to attack enemy 
 etc. You can sneak up to 2 guys, set up a combo kill & deliver it with precision
  
  * Sounds. Being a stealth game, sound plays into it allot. Also the voice action is done quite 
 well. God bless that stereotypical redneck hick yokal voice that all makes us laugh oh-so hard
 
  
  * Gun battles are also fun ;)
  
  *Instant loading, the longest you will wait is the time it takes you to double click the icon on 
 your desk top!
  
  The bad:
  
  * CTDs!!!! Gawhh !!! (for those who dont know it mean crash to desktop) . Never have i seen so many, 
 even with the latest patch ; ( big let down, but i look at it as a needed break because i forget 
 to come up for air with this game. Vary rare for me!
  
  * Trial & error gameplay. While i dont think this is bad, some people will get frustrated. Just 
 remember to quick save often & you'll be fine.
  
  The ugly:
  
  Who am i kidding, theres no ugly here.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  If you like strategy games, want 
 a game that will hold you attention, keeps you entertained & leaves you with a sence of satisfaction, 
 this is the game for you!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion567
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  The other reviews is crap because they are giving desperados a bad remark because really it is 
 a good game to play because i loved the learning curve getting into the game. every player you 
 get, you get a learning curve to what character is all about. the gamplay is great because you 
 can do almost everything there is to do in the game like blowing up wagons jumping of balconies 
 and more . the graphic is colourful, smooth and they did alot to look very western the graphics 
 on the buildings looks cool and exact to a western house. The sound and music is really western 
 and really put in the mood to play the level. The value is good because you get 25 mission plus 
 learning curve and 5 different people with difrent abilites.
  Its great !!! If you want a good graphical adventure game buy desperados. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 15, 2005 8:18 am PT
Review:  Released from a developer that goes by the name Spellbound, Desperados was brought to the public 
 on July 23rd of 2001, much to the pleasure of their fans. Located in the strategy genre, Desperados 
 is a game that shares a lot of the same qualities with a game series known as Commandos. Its what 
 would be called a real-time team-based strategy game. But unlike the Commandos games where you 
 control different berets during the World War, in Desperados, youre given control of a group consisting 
 of a cowboy, a doctor, a harlot, a Mexican bandit, a slave, and a little Chinese girl in the time 
 of the old West. If you thought the Commandos series was tough, youre in for an even ruder awakening 
 when you first install this game. 
  
  You start off with a lone gunman named John Cooper. A rugged cowboy who wants to do right in the 
 world, but only for a price of course. Your adventures begin trying to capture and kill bandits 
 across the deserts of New Mexico, where youll soon become acquainted with old friends to help 
 you along your way, because youll definitely be needing all the man and woman power you can get 
 as you come across armies of both the Mexican bandits and even the U. S. Calvary because of a misread 
 altercation between you and a local of a small town. The entire game spans twenty-five levels as 
 you progress across the sometimes flat desert to the towering mountains giving you little cover 
 when dealing with your enemies. But, be rest assured that youre experience all of the old west 
 in this game, because the developers surely thought of every situation that your group could be 
 put in, whether its day or night, or even dealing with small bar fights, this game has it all.
 
  
  All the characters that youre provided with throughout the twenty-five missions have unique and 
 different attacks when dealing with their enemies. A nice feature of Desperados is when you acquire 
 a new companion into your group the next mission is usually used as a tutorial of how to use that 
 characters special attacks or trickery in dealing with the many bandits across the desert. And 
 missions from then on usually make you use those special tricks in some way or another. With each 
 character having five different attacks, itll be a little hard to remember them all, but if you 
 do, itll definitely help you in the missions later on because it makes the difference in dealing 
 with all the situations youll be apart of.
  
  The graphics are much along the lines of the Commandos series, but the prerendered backgrounds 
 seem a little bit more detailed. Spellbound took their time in laying out each individual level 
 for you and your talented group. For a 2D game of its time, with how well the backgrounds look 
 and the small characters within them, this game has exceptional graphics for both its time and 
 genre that its in. The characters themselves are small and obviously less pixeled and leave much 
 to be desired when compared to the background. But dont believe that theyre terrible because 
 again the developer took their time in making sure that the characters look good with dealing with 
 the minute details of guns, ropes, and yes, even little monkeys. There are also a few different 
 objects that your group can interact with throughout the maps. Little medical kits, some TNT, and 
 other things, but these objects can only be picked up with the characters that use them. In between 
 most levels, youre given a short cinematic to describe and illustrate how the story throughout 
 the game progresses from location to location. The cinematic movies arent spectacular, but they 
 look good for the time that the game was released. There arent a lot of different graphical settings 
 but youre allowed to up the resolution up to 1024 X 768 which is nice in the older games. Other 
 options are also available such as shadows for characters and buildings, but chances are if youre 
 playing this game now, you have a system thatll easy run this game with all the graphical settings 
 on high, so no worries.
  
  The sound during the game was good. The voice acting is decent, but with some characters, it just 
 didnt seem believable in what type of character they were trying to portray. There is some background 
 music playing while youre crawling across the dirt or jumping off a balcony onto your horse down 
 below, but this music really kind of fades away in the tension that youre caught up with when 
 trying to deal with both your players and the enemies on the screen. The western-themed music does 
 add some atmosphere to the different levels, but it just doesnt seem like it ever adds enough 
 because of all the tense moments youll be going through.
  
  Overall, Desperados: Wanted Dead or Alive falls into a small genre of games that include the Commandos 
 series and Spellbounds other real-time team-based strategy games like Chicago 1930 and Robin Hood: 
 The Legend of Sherwood. Although these games come few and far in between, it only makes you appreciate 
 more of how hard the developer work for the player to have an enjoyable experience that, not only 
 makes you think how to work out each situation, but also gives you hours upon hours of fun and 
 replayability for each mission. Replayability in the way that you could use different attacks from 
 the different group members in the many tense spots that youre put in throughout the twenty-five 
 levels. Also much like the other games in the genre, Desperados doesnt have a multiplayer feature, 
 but its truly not needed because of the long enjoyable single player campaign. Anyone who enjoyed 
 the Commandos series will love this new installment in the genre, but newcomers, be forewarned 
 that this genre of games can be hard and frustrating and youll need not only a little bit of patience, 
 but also a fast hand to retrieve your gun incase things get hectic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 11, 2005 2:12 am PT
Review:  There is not much negative stuff to say about this game except for the trial and error gameplay. 
 
  Desperados has beautiful detailed 2D landscapes well done sound and interesting indivdual characters 
 in it.
  The FMV's which apper after each level keep you tied to the story and the settings reach from western 
 towns to nightfire camps and dusty canyons.
  So far so good. But all this gets overshadowed by the hard not to say unfair gameplay.
  I can 
 tell that if this game wouldn't have a quicksave function it would be unplayable. Since the most 
 missions are about to stay hidden and keeping you revolvers cold it's just a matter of seconds 
 till you discovered again by an enemy and you're about to load your quicksave.
  Ok, if you like this gameplay then this is the game for you but if you're looking for a more open 
 and forgiving gameplay then this might get you in rage.
  As for me I can say that I played it only three levels when it came out because of the frustrating 
 gameplay I just gave up on it.
  Now, four years later, I reinstalled it and I must admit that now that I know it's so damn hard 
 beforehand I just keep on playing it.
  Maybe it's because I love the western setting or I find the characters and the style charming, 
 I don't know but the game definitely has it's charms.
  So the core gameplay is about coordinating your max. 6 characters. Because of the fact that you 
 often have to get some action done simultaneously you can save one action for every character which 
 will be triggered by pressing the "quick action" button.
  This comes handy in some situations but often takes about ten quickloads till it works right on 
 tricky situations. Timing is key and timing is really hard to pull of in this game.
  
  So in the end I can say that Desperados is a game your should try before buy.
  It's definitely 
 a trial and error game but with nice character features and fortunately with a very fast responding 
 quicksave function which rescues the game from the label "unplayable".
  It's one of those games where you can see that the developers put many effort and love to detail 
 in it.
  Some might find the game frustrating others challenging. Try the demo and decide for yourself.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I should state that I'm not a huge gamer. I grew up playing the old Atari, Commodore 
 and Intellevisions games, plus Arcade. Now in my 30s, I've re-entered in the world of gaming. The 
 technology is fantastic in the gaming world now, however, I find myself overwhelmed and bored by 
 many of these high-tech 3D games. Desperados caught my eye a year ago - it was released in US in 
 2001. I had no idea what to expect but was intrigued by a "western" themed game - a genre I haven't 
 experienced previously. There's no doubt that comparisons to the "Commandos" series of 2D multi 
 character play is valid for Desperados. But having played Commandos, which I did enjoy, Desperados 
 is truly unique in its on right. While on one level there's a simplicity to the game, the graphics 
 and gameply are superb. As the Gamespot reviewer noted, the gameplay is extremely hard and requires 
 much trial and error, and save and reloading (actually a easy to use feature provided by the developer) . 
 The reviewer lists this as a fault to the game. However, I found the challenge to be positive and 
 quite rewarding. While it appears to be an adventure/action game on the outside it truly is very 
 much a strategy game. All six of the characters can be used by the player, though you progressively 
 obtain the characters usually by rescuing them in a higher level. Each character has unique abilities, 
 but all characters possess the ability to shoot a gun or rifle type weapon. For instance, our hero 
 and main character Matt fires a fast six shooter. His special abilities include a quickdraw in 
 which you can kill at least 3 enemies at once. Also, he can lure enemies with a chiming watch - 
 this comes in useful. Each character has at least 6 unique abilities including a shooting ability. 
 Sam, the second character who is obtained when Matt rescues him in level 2, can use explosives 
 like dynamite, fire a rifle, and use a rattlesnake ( on some levels and with luck the snake can 
 kill off dozens of enemies at once if setup correctly. Doc, the 3rd character, uses a six shooter 
 that doubles as a sniper weapon, plus he can heal. The sexy female Kate is surprsingly valuable 
 with her sex kitten lure and kick ability. I'll stop here with character descriptions, but that 
 gives you a taste. All the character's abilities can be used in creative ways to get through very 
 progressively tough levels. You'll find that you will get more creative as the game goes along. 
 Another nice feature in the game is that you can record actions for one or multiple characters 
 including running away (very valuable at times) . Overall, the game is very hard. It can take a 
 quite a bit of time, strategy, a bit of luck and trial/error to complete all 26 levels. However, 
 I should note that with each new character the developer includes a training level that familiarizes 
 you with their abilities. I have to estimate that I played the game at least 60 hours through for 
 several weeks before completing all levels. However, I found it rewarding and it only proved to 
 me the value of the game. Most games now, 5 years after this one was released, seem to be over 
 in no time with little replay value. This is getting long, so i'll close with a couple of quick 
 points. Again, for a 2D game Desperado's graphics are fanstastic and rich. Furthermore, as the 
 game claims, it's the first game to include ongoing movie-like cut scenes - they're great! Lastly, 
 there is an intriguing plot to Desperados and an endgame. I think true gamers that like a challenge 
 will absolutely love this game. I just heard that Spellbound is planning a sequel that continues 
 the story from demo version of the game, which was separate from this game's storyline. The sequel 
 will include both 2d and 3d gameplay. I can't wait. I encourage everyone to purchase this game 
 at what is now a very low price from sites like amazon or the like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betelgeuse68
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 25, 2003 9:34 am PT
Review:  Let's get something off the bat right now, Desperados is one very tough game. While it it enjoyable 
 to make progress in it, I must confess that at times I have wondered why I have bothered considering 
 all the very tedious trial and error involved and the constant loading/reloading. Thankfully there 
 is a quicksave/quickload and loads are instantaneous, otherwise this game would be unplayable in 
 my humble opinion. Many of the user reviews seem to omit this particular deficiency (constant reloading) 
 that the Gamespot reviewer managed to cite dead on. I am writing this review in 2003 so the game 
 has already been out for a good while. It turns out I picked it up shortly after it was in the 
 bargain bin in 2001 but I simply had not given it time. So here it is 2003 and I have to say, given 
 that it is holding my attention as strongly as it has, there obviously are some redeeming qualities. 
 The biggest being the graphics. Frankly, I am not sure I have ever laid eyes on a PC game with 
 such meticulous texture work. From the imperfections of stucco walls in buildings in New Mexico 
 to the dirt collations of wagon wheels of streets in the towns you find yourself - the subtlety 
 of the work is sublime. And the variety of architecture in a single map varies enough that it just 
 plain feels realistic. For example it would not be anywhere as impressive to me if all this detailed 
 texture work was done for stucco walls with a map consistently completely stucco buildings at right 
 angles to each other. In DESPERADOS, the arrangement and variety of buildings occurs in a highly 
 convincing manner, aka realistic. In short, the graphics are the high point. DESPERADOS has been 
 likened to COMMANDOS: BEHIND ENEMY LINES. I have never played or seen that particular title but 
 I do find DESPERADOS to be unique in its game play. I would not describe it as a real time strategy 
 (RTS) game as some have since for most people this elicits visions of resource gathering, having 
 a number of characters of certain classes, etc. - a design we have seen countless times in Starcraft, 
 Warcraft and all the copy cat games that have followed. DESPERADOS is nothing like this. In DESPERADOS 
 using the various abilities of the characters to bypass obstacles (usually guards) is the crux 
 of game play. Unfortunately it seems the designers saw to it that almost all the time very precise 
 timing is required (with seemingly lots of luck) echoing in my mind the Gamespot's review - that 
 the designers are trying to make you jump through very specific hoops. This vs. collating the abilities 
 of the different characters in your possession to solve problems in different ways. In this regard 
 I should warn you - be prepared for lots of trial and error. The characters you employ all very 
 distinct. John Cooper, who you start off with, not only has a six shooter but he's handy with the 
 knife (silent death) and can use a watch that emits chimes to call attention to guards (you set 
 a timer and hope a guard comes over to investigate) . Sam, a Negro, likes dynamite and will tie 
 characters up that Cooper has managed to knock out (in some cases killing NPCs will result in failure) . 
 Sam also carries a rifle with 12 rounds so he is useful in gunfights. Though I should point out 
 even though the setting is the Wild West, gunfights are not the focus of this game. Going into 
 missions with guns a blazing is a quick ticket to mission failure. Sam also carries a bag with 
 a rattlesnake which is good for spooking horses, an element that can come into play at various 
 points. Doc McCoy is a Civil War Veteran, a sharp shooter, can heal, can employ a knock out gas 
 and can erect a "scarecrow" to distract enemies. In closing I am about half way through the game 
 and have already put in 20 hours of game play. So in terms in value perhaps the game deserves a 
 10... but the quality of the game play (too much trial and error with constant reloading) in my 
 opinion does not allow me to give out such a designation. DESPERADOS strongest aspect is definitely 
 the graphics. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
