-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Desperados 2: Cooper's Revenge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/desperados2coopersrevenge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New 3D engine renders environments that look as good as its 2D counterparts.
 Third-person mode is a nice change of pace from the traditional top-down view.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating gameplay that requires a fair amount of luck to advance.
 Brutal difficulty results in you reloading constantly.
 Controls feel clumsy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 25, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 6.5, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 410 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Spellbound
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     May 5, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite some attractive visuals, Desperados 2 is burdened by lame artificial intelligence and some 
 very frustrating missions. 

  As its name implies, Desperados 2: Cooper's Revenge is the follow-up to 2001's Desperados: Wanted 
 Dead or Alive, a character-based real-time strategy game that could best be summed up as Commandos 
 set in the Old West rather than World War II. This is a genre of games that seems to have quietly 
 faded over the past few years, but developer Spellbound is taking another crack at it with a sequel. 
 Unfortunately, while the visuals have changed, virtually everything else hasn't, and the limitations 
 of the genre are all on display in Desperados 2.  

          Cooper and company return for, of all things, revenge, in Desperados 2: Cooper's Revenge. 
     

  In Desperados 2, John Cooper's unlikely gang of bounty hunters is back at it again, and this time 
 trying to uncover a mystery that involves Cooper's brother, as well as an old legend. Your job 
 is to guide each character through the level, sometimes sneaking past guards when they're not looking 
 and other times using a character's special ability to negotiate an obstacle. As with the Commandos 
 games, each team member in Desperados 2 has a unique ability that only he or she can access. For 
 example, Kate O'Hara is the team's seductress, and she's capable of showing some leg to distract 
 opponents and then blowing powder in their faces to knock them out. Doc McCoy is not only the medic 
 but also the sniper. Sam Williams, along with his other talents, is the explosives expert who uses 
 dynamite and land mines to get his business done.   

  Many of the familiar conventions found in other character-based strategy games appear in Desperados 
 2. You can call up vision cones to show you the field of vision for a guard, and so long as you 
 remain out of the cone, you're out of sight. Enemies have patrol patterns that you must analyze, 
 and you need to figure out the best way to use the terrain to your advantage. Unfortunately, many 
 of the same gameplay contrivances that reared their head in the first generation of this style 
 of game remain in Desperados 2. Guards don't have intelligence so much as a few programmed behaviors 
 that are incredibly easy to manipulate. You'll lose count of the times that you'll shoot a guy 
 while his buddies, who stand mere yards away, don't seem to notice. Also, the guards never really 
 seem concerned that one fewer of their buddies shows up at a meeting point every time they do a 
 circuit of their patrol. If you pick them off one by one and stash the bodies in a dark corner, 
 the enemy will never react. And should someone manage to raise the alarm, all you have to do is 
 duck out of sight, and there's a good chance that the enemy will forget all about you and go about 
 their programmed routines after a minute. Or if you do find yourself in a firefight, watch the 
 AI come at you one by one. However, while this makes the combat seem simple, it's almost anything 
 but.  

  The main issue with Desperados 2 is that, as a real-time strategy game, it's predicated on you 
 failing a lot. You'll often fail nine times out of 10 before you finally figure out how to get 
 past a particularly difficult patch. And it's not like you're failing all those times due to a 
 lack of sincere effort on your part. The game's jump-through-the-hoops level design, clumsy controls, 
 and brutal difficulty will have you grinding your teeth in short order. For example, gunfights 
 require you to pick off hordes of opponents, which isn't an easy task thanks to the incredibly 
 slow aiming reticle. You can't simply point and click, since you have to wait for the crosshairs 
 to zero in on an opponent. In the meantime, that will leave you exposed to fire, and a single bullet 
 will often ruin your day, as there are usually multiple guys firing at you from different angles. 
 Fortunately, it only takes a few seconds to revert to the last quicksave, so you can repeat the 
 process again, and then, if by sheer luck you survive, slam the quicksave key and move on. Needless 
 to say, you'll be abusing quicksave a lot in this game.  

  On the flipside, things get marginally easier when you switch to the new third-person mode, which 
 lets you take direct control of a team member and aim their weapons like in an action game. You'll 
 still die quite a bit in the trial-and-error gameplay, though, and you'll rely on luck as much 
 as skill when battling multiple opponents. You'll also get to see the AI's lame performance up 
 close, as enemies will do the dumbest things such as stand in the open, run up to a fallen comrade 
 and stare down in wonder at what killed him, or slowly run toward you rather than shoot you from 
 long range. However, it's clear that this isn't a pure action game mode. The controls feel clumsy 
 while in third-person mode, and you often can't do simple tasks such as holding your gun in one 
 hand while opening a door with the other, which leaves you open to getting pumped full of lead 
 by the guy inside before you can draw your gun. Reload, try again.  

          Gameplay issues aside, the game does at least have a good look to it.     

  It's too 
 bad that the gameplay doesn't measure up to the visual presentation of the game. The fully 3D visuals 
 are a big step up from the previous game's look. You'll see beautiful old Spanish forts, dusty 
 towns, and more. In terms of sound, Desperados 2 is filled with some well-done western themes that 
 seem completely appropriate to the setting. On the downside is the corny, almost nasal voice acting, 
 as well as some poor dialogue that plays over grainy in-game photographs during the cutscenes. 
 There's no multiplayer in Desperados 2, but that's not unusual for the genre, since these types 
 of games are based on players battling the environment rather than other players. That leaves you 
 with the single-player game with all of its issues. So, unless you're a dedicated and very patient 
 fan of this style of game, you should probably steer clear     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  At first look Desperados 2 didn't differ much from the original Desperados. With one "little" exception. 
 The enemy AI. The enemies in Desperados 2 won't bother to change their patrol path even if all 
 the guys around them went missing ( in Desperados 1 they sounded an alarm in the moment they notice 
 someone is not in his place) . The playable characters are almost the same, but due to some reason, 
 their skills have been cut off. All the unique abilities (like Sanchez carrying 2 guys, or his 
 building clearing) have gone missing. Some of the old skills have been replaced with new "useful" 
 one's (Sam only useful skill is his dynamite) . The only improvement in the gameplay is the "Action 
 mode" which allows you to play from a third person view. The mode is kind of unpractical, because 
 of the limited vision you are in it. The only usefulness of this mode is when you are shooting 
 and playing with only one character and the others are hidden (as the group shooting usually ends 
 up with one of your characters dead) . But don't worry too much about this, because you won't be 
 able to shoot in like half the missions. Actually you won't be able to even kill an enemy in half 
 of the missions.
  The story goes around the dead brother of Cooper, some corrupted military officials and some Indians. 
 I cannot say much more, because the cut scenes which role is to explain the story are awfully ugly. 
 They are not even cut scenes but a compilation of artworks. And they had a habit of crashing your 
 sound a lot, forcing you to skip them. 
  The game is very unoptimized. It seems it can only use one core of a Dual Core, which happens to 
 cause very annoying lag in maps with a lot of enemies. 
  
  I strongly suggest you to play Desperados 2 only if you are big fan of this kind of games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielestrada
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  The story:
  
  a bunch of bad guys are looking for trouble. So they started a Big Bang Bang in a small country 
 town.
  
  Today is the first day I'm seeing the sun since last week.
  This game is soo good and my social live was ruined.
  
  The main caracter is pretty hot when 
 his legs are shaved. The niga is very explosive and sings rap. Ok. I'm desperado! 
  
  Ok. I'm looking for something to write about. A nice weather, cool girls and you are reading this 
 review? Are you crazy? Get yourself a life!!
  
  P. S.
  
  If you don't find it, look on ebay.
  
  Amazing!!!
  A classic!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougsan
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the games where you are above all that is happening and point to where you want 
 the current characterr to go and then fiddle with the keys to choose the correct weapon (knife 
 for stabbing, knife for throwing, gun for shooting, etc.) . You can hit a key and put the camera 
 with your character -- as in most FPS games -- but I never felt I was in charge.
  
  Recognize you must complete the missions in exactly the way the game wants you to. If the game 
 wants you to kill a bad guy by throwing a knife at him then you can't shoot him. Pretty stupid! 
 I understand using stealth when it is required but when I'm fighting in a saloon?
  
  The game goes to the bottom with the second mission (one minute into the game) . Your mission is 
 to shoot some tin cans at a pistol range. OK if you can see the cans! If you can't see the cans, 
 and I can't see them very clearly, then what's the point!
  
  At the end of the third mission (kill the guy by picking up the knife and throwing it at him) you 
 are required to carry the dead body to a wagon near your partner BUT you don't know where in he!! 
 your partner is standing! And the mini map doesn't show you where she is either!
  
  For the fourth mission you play as your partner and distract a guy by blowing face powder at him. 
 Then the main character kills the guy in a film sequence (you don't do anything) . Pretty stupid!
 
  
  The fifth mission -- OH, forget it. The game starts at the bottom and never improves. What a waste 
 of time!
  
  Before we shell out good money for games we should know their formats. I just paid $20US for this 
 game and I hate this format! Sometimes having this format available is OK provided you don'y have 
 to use it. In this game play is very poor if you choose to not do the point thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  in this game You can shoot around like in action game and use of tactics is available also, so 
 there is no comparison to other game, especially in western game genre there isn't any similar 
 game. as a whole. Desperados 2 is little different than Desperados WDOA but still it is very playable.
 
  The graphics are not bad but could have been better.
  None of the voice actors from desperados 1 is in desperados 2 I really miss the voices from desperados 
 1. as a whole sound effects are weak but music of meno is very good.
  the AI is very stupid and takes its force in big numbers. the story of game is very simple and not 
 attractive.
  as a whole desperados 2 is a good game but it's not quite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haohmaru11
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 2, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  i have played D1 ...2 times i really enjoyed that game ! who needs 3D ? it is like playing Metal 
 Slug 3D ! bad too bad ! D1 was one of the best games i ever played ... and they ruined everything 
 ! i wish it was desperados 2 with the same graphics ... if it was so ... i was about to play it maybe 
 3 times ! Think this way .... you know how SNK ruined Samurai Spirits series ? they made a 3D game 
 of Samurai Spirits and the company broke ! lol ... now Samurai Spirits came out with the same 2D 
 style and it is good but different company that made this game live again ! D2 is very poor ... i 
 installed and in the next 10 min i unistalled it and imagine on my 3ghz pentium 4 with 1gb ram 
 ... the game was unplayable ! if somebody from who made the D2 looks at my post ... i have a suggestion 
 for them ... if u were making a D2 with the same graphics like D1 probably it was selling like 
 Half Life 2 ! lol think u guys ... when u r trying to make a game ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flash -- killer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 28, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  this type of play is what i always dreamed of
  tactical control of a squad in big levels
  with many tools
  and the best is taking part in the action in the first person view
  devising 
 a plan and then executing it in first person view
  is one of the best experinces ever
  
  on the down side you get very little of the above action
  while some of the levels are real commandos 
 style with a great action
  about half of the game are stupid and linear levels in which you got to take out hordes of enemys 
 one after another using the same technique over and over again
  
  and some few levels (and this i cant understand) are pure FPS
  (you got to take out waves of 
 armed horse riders circiling around you ,and the only way to it ,is in the first person view)
 
  
  the graphics are just great the overview is highly detailed and looks great
  and the 1st view is reasonble considring the same models must be used for both
  
  the AI is 
 very stupid and takes its force in big numbers
  i have never met a person who looks always in one direction and can see only 20 degrees the other 
 AI traits which some people consider bad programming
  are part of a Comanddos style gameplay
  
  as a whole Desperados 2 is a Great concept and i 
 hope other games will foolow him
  but the game itself could be much better (i guess more money and experince could help) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romulus
Rating: 1.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I never got past the first couple of missions... Within minutes of starting the game, I was completely 
 lost and had no idea of how to proceed. The game designers idea of a manual doesn't have enough 
 paper to wipe yourself with after the john. In other words, it doesn't even perform that task well.
 
  
  On the plus side there's..... Ah.... Well there's the..... Ah.... Graphics. Yeah, the graphics 
 aren't too bad. Voice acting is also very poor.
  
  Take your money, wad it up, and throw it in the gutter... You'll get more bang for your buck. I 
 believe I set a new personal speed record uninstalling the game and forwarding the box to the bin.
 
  
  Rom - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I was just looking through my favourite game magazine LEVEL when I found a preview at Desperados 
 2 : Cooper's Revenge. And then I remembered about a certain Desperados: Wanted Dead or Alive.
 
  I remebered it as a great game (even though I didn't play it; my brother did and I watched) any 
 way in it's time it was great. I suposed that after such a great past Cooper's Revenge with it's 
 new 3rd person view wold be at least at great as it's predecesor. Then it came out and it began...
 
  My first bad impresion was that you can't make a profile and you can't start a new game and you 
 can't delete the autosaves. So first I had to wait for my brother to finsh it. After that I had 
 the so caled "honor" of playng it.
  Because this game is a western i'll put it this way:
  1) The Good: OK graphichs, inviromentes are well maid and can put you in the western atmosphere. 
 The sound ain't much but it's very western and has it's own stile.
  2) The Bad and The Ugly: The BUGS the goddam BUGS what kind if game is that were characters can 
 go through one another the AI is the UGLIEST part of the game; enemies are some time so idiot that 
 you start laughing and the game becomes so easy. And then they start doing stupid things, randomly. 
 Here's a good example: I try to leure two guards with Kate with seduction, well in stead of them 
 folowing Kate they start to fightin public and after that you know alarms and stuff. If this isn't 
 enough here's a nother one: Again with Kate I try to distract them by faingting, well the guards 
 see me get close and again start figting, with no reason. 
  Out of all this the gameplay suffers and it suffers badly. Of cource I hven't mentioned about the 
 silly things guards do like an entire batalion starting to laugh at the same time or other stupid 
 stuff. If you want to finish this game you going to need something that comes in a myeld proporsin 
 my friends and thing is caled luck.
  In the end well... the review said it it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstar666
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 29, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  -The game sucks. The graphics are not bad, but the sound, gameplay, AI, and everything else sucks.
 
  -You can shoot an enemy infront of everybody, and no one will run away, kill you or do anything 
 about it.
  -It is too complicated and slow.
  -This is the worst game of 2006.
  -Dont waste yourmoney buying it
  -Dont waste your timeplaying it
  -I just played the first 
 10 minutes, and then uninstalled it
  -Dont even think about buying it
  -The wort thing is the AI
  -They trieed to make the game like commandos, but they madesomething 
 worse than the worst game in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quenaelin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  I really like this game, it is someway better than Desperados 1. You can shoot around like in action 
 game and use of tactics is available also, so there is no comparison to other game, especially 
 in western game genre there isn't any similar game. This game resembles other tactical games such 
 as Rainbow 6 games with its simultaneous group tactics and it has western humor included and other 
 cool things from western movies, like pocket-watch from Few Dollars More movie, which in-fact isn't 
 working so good as in Desperados 1, but I guess it is intentional that in Desperados 2 enemies 
 does not bother from clock so much and do their guard duties better. 
  
  There isn't any mission generator or map maker with this game, perhaps they are thinking making 
 more these game depending on sales, but I really like to have some self made missions with available 
 maps and of course multiplayer it should be included to be able to play western game on LAN, there 
 isn't any western multiplayer game around and it would be really cool to play this game with human 
 opponents in co-op against AI or team vs team as good against bad guys and AI could be perhaps 
 ugly :) Horse riding is also made realistically, you cannot climb to horse with gun in your hand, 
 you have to first disarm and then mount and then draw your weapon, great thinking. I like to correct 
 Gamespots review, becouse you can open doors with gun in your hand by pressing CTRL-key. 
  
  This game is lots of better than other western games available for PC, simply because there 
 isn't any similar western games, so you cannot compare. GUN is simply FPS-shooter nothing more, 
 no thinking no tactics just blast away everything, if you like this kind of shoot'em up western 
 game you should buy GUN instead but if you like more tactical games then Desperados 2 is your choice. 
 Anyhow I would rate this game to 9.6 points.
  
  + graphics
  + tactics
  + music ( reminds me those good old Italo Westerns )
  - no mission generator
  - no map maker
 
  - no multiplayer
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss33
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 5, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  
  this game is about western wild western .brings with real time strategy and third person shooter 
 maybe its a good experince but you cant find good point about this game .graphic is good but system 
 requirements must be high enough to run the game .i played it with 512 mb of ram but i even couldnt 
 saw the intro movie without trouble .this game wants to be good on anything but it has nothing 
 new to bring .loadings between missions is very boring and it takes long time to load completely. 
 sound is not very good and its just bad one specialy in movies. and about gameplay i cant say some 
 thing except this :missions are not designed so good and sometimes even you dont have reason to 
 play it and you just need luck to advance in mission .at the end i must say its a waste of money 
 and waste of time and waste of hard drive space and waste of time to even search about this game 
 .so dont lose your time and find another game. but atleast you can enjoy the scens of wild western 
 in this game 
  
  it was my opinion about this game and you are free to do anything you want about this game
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokoblak24
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  This game shows you the hard work of untrained game studio. Except tons of errors and bugs and 
 terribla AI, this game offers great atmosphere. The must have game for Desperados Wanted dead or 
 alive fans.
  
  The good: great graphics, nice sound, nice maps, great atmosphere.
  
  The bad: Terrible AI, controls, tons of bugs and errors, poor animations, no physics.
  
  My 
 comment: They could get the AI from the first game. It was great there. I should get them two months 
 to polish that game. It have simply too many errors.
  
  And yeah, poor for that game, it will not be selled good (I think) , and that means no Expansion 
 packs and fixes-I really want them to make a serial patch that will fix most of problems and a 
 expansion pack.
  
  Dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: info_expert
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  I think GameSpot is forcing its readers to think if GameSpot charges some kind of money from the 
 companies to rank the games. Well, that might be false also.
  
  Also , GameSpot should think from the perspective of the fans of games instead of putting every 
 game on the Cross of their artificial intelligence geek standard. For example, if a game is for 
 children then that will be percieved and reviewed from the children's perspective. And if a game 
 is historical and has some uniqueness like old western adventure like Desperados, then it should 
 be reviewed from that sense.
  
  I think GameSpot is forcing its readers to think if GameSpot charges some kind of money from the 
 companies to rank the games. Well, that might be false also.
  
  Also , GameSpot should think from the perspective of the fans of games instead of putting every 
 game on the Cross of their artificial intelligence geek standard. For example, if a game is for 
 children then that will be percieved and reviewed from the children's perspective. And if a game 
 is historical and has some uniqueness like old western adventure like Desperados, then it should 
 be reviewed from that sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADG_
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  The good:
  
  - The graphics are decent (could have been better, but not bad)
  - To have the game in 3D makes the game better, as it gives you a better view of the game, and 
 gives you some new possibilities
  - Some of the levels takes a lot of time to complete, and you can't rely on shooting your way through 
 the game (as I feared, after playing the demo)
  - As with Desperados 1 (D1) , you can beat the levels in lots of different ways
  - They don't 
 have all those tutorial levels as in D1 (They've only got 1, the first level in this game with 
 both Cooper and Kate)
  
  The bad:
  
  - The AI is stupid... why couldn't they get the AI from D1?
  - Sanchez hidehout (from D1) has 
 changed a lot (doors added/removed, mountains "moved", etc)
  - You can't get everywhere in the levels (as in you can't get up on roofs (refering to the roof 
 Cooper 'landed' on in Sanchez hideout in D1) , you can't enter all buildings)
  - My favorite map type in D1 are nowhere to be seen. I loved city maps, but so far (halfway through 
 the game) I've only seen two city missions (the tutorial mission, and the mission just after)
 
  - Almost all maps are used again for a different mission... this itself is not bad, as it makes 
 the game longer, but they did it a wrong way: First you spend lots of hours on a mission till you 
 know every inch of the map, then as soon as you finish that mission, the map gets "reset" (bodies 
 removed, etc) and a new mission in the same map begins again. They should at least have had a different 
 mission between playing the same map (like they did in D1 for two of the maps)
  - They removed my favorite character Mia, and replaced her with some boring indian
  - I would 
 have loved to see more maps from D1 return, but so far Sanchez' hideout is the only one
  - The movies in between the missions are just "painted" pictures... but it's not that bad, and 
 I can understand why they wanted to cut development costs (better to cut the cost in the movies 
 department, than in the actual gameplay department)
  - None of the voice actors from D1 is in D2 (maybe except for Doc, but I'm not sure) ... I really 
 miss the voices from D1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sacrifice-Scene
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  It Returned with a wonderful new look !! yes It's Desperados 2 cooper's revenge    if we talk about 
 the gameplay we could say that it had gone better than the last game espicially after adding the 
 new characterHawkeewith more good abilities to each character 
  -----------------------------------------------
  Te Graphics Is pretty good when you play in 
 the 3d view and it shows a verygood graphics engine the game have 
  -------------------------------------------------------
  As a matter of fact the storyline is 
 very cool and it just attract you to complete the missions on the game to know what whould happen 
 next !! 
  --------------------------------------------
  let me tell ya what ........... if you haven't got this game yet ......... I suppose thatyou lost 
 half of your life 
  -----------------------------------
  Done Guys 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sime47
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 25, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Desperados Wanted Dead Or Alive was a clone of Commandos and for me he was better than Commandos. 
 Both games were tactical adventures but than Commandos changed and became FPS. So if Commandos 
 changed than Desperados must do the same. He became a TPS but we switch between TPS and Strategy 
 but I will advise TPS beacuse strategy is little bad. It was better in Desperados WDOR. Graphic 
 is great with lot of details. Sound, too especially a western music. A. I. is really stupid. I don't 
 like it sometimes but the great gameplay is erasing it. Story is good as it was in first part. 
 You will play this game as long as you played Desperados 1. I would advise this game for Desperados 
 and Commandos fans but I am sure there will be a lot of peoples that will be little dissapointed. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
