-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Desperate Housewives: The Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/desperatehousewives/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A faithful adaptation of the show's playful but mysterious tone.
 Lengthy original storyline gives you some role-playing-style choices.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not much actual gameplay, since you'll mostly just talk to people.
 Undercooked virtual-life elements are pointless.
 Some bad dialogue and voice acting hurts the plot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 347 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Buena Vista Games
Developer: Liquid Ent.
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Oct 6, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Desperate Housewives isn't much of a game, but it does a pretty good job of telling an original, 
 interactive soap opera story in the quirky tone of the hit show. 

  The typical video game player might quickly dismiss ABC's hit TV show  Desperate Housewives  as 
 nothing special, but the show's composition of wit, humor, and intrigue has made it a huge success, 
 a meticulously crafted guilty pleasure. Besides, the show has a great hook: It's narrated by a 
 woman who mysteriously, tragically died in a pristine, seemingly perfect suburban community. This 
 dark edge permeates a mostly light and upbeat show, and it's also integral to the computer game 
 adaptation. Desperate Housewives: The Game looks like a Sims clone, but it's really more of a point-and-click 
 adventure game that tells an original story in the vein of something from a season of the TV show, 
 complete with all the philandering, double-crossing, and skeletons in closets that define the series. 
 There's very little in the way of challenging or exciting gameplay in here, but Desperate Housewives: 
 The Game succeeds in capturing the spirit of the show. And in so doing, it delves into some subject 
 matter that very few other games have dared to broach.  

          The priceless look on this kid's face is entirely coincidental.     

  In the game, 
 you play as a woman who has just moved into a nice two-story home on Wisteria Lane with her teenage 
 son and successful doctor of a husband. So, rather than let you play as any of the stars of the 
 show, the game instead lets you interact with them in different ways by role-playing as a character 
 you create. Initially, you'll get to meet and greet with the other wives on the block, who demonstrate 
 their personality quirks a little too forcefully here compared with the show, partly due to the 
 soundalikes who provide their voices. For example, Lynette Scavo always sounds frazzled and exhausted 
 here, since she's trying to raise three kids while holding a steady job; and the pretty Susan Mayer 
 is constantly insecure. Nevertheless, fans of the show will find both the likenesses and the dialogue 
 of these characters to be fairly close approximations of their selves from the show.  

  The show's housewives ultimately aren't key players in the game's storyline, which revolves around 
 your own character and her mysterious past. However, the game does a decent job of letting you 
 interact with them, as long as you don't scratch too deep below the surface. By presenting you 
 with different dialogue options and social interactions, the game lets you be a good neighbor, 
 a nasty bitch, or somewhere in between. You can tell a lot of the dialogue choices are meaningless, 
 but the story does present you with some mutually exclusive goals on occasion, and it even has 
 multiple endings based on the actions you take at the end. Many of the story's plot twists can 
 be seen coming from a mile away, and sometimes you're forced to choose from a completely ridiculous 
 set of dialogue options that will feel inconsistent with how you're trying to play the game. But 
 the ridiculous quality of the plot ultimately works to the game's advantage, much like the show 
 itself. In short, the story starts off fluffy but gradually escalates into something very different 
 and more consequential.  

  Desperate Housewives is a very easy game to play, though it appears to have more depth than it 
 really does. The resemblance between this game and The Sims series is unmistakable, and indeed, 
 some of the gameplay elements seem like vestigial traits from that series. For instance, you have 
 meters representing your character's need to maintain a good appearance, be happy, and so on, and 
 you refill these needs by doing things like primping your hair and watching TV. But none of it 
 seems to have any bearing on gameplay. Your character doesn't really need to eat or sleep, even 
 though you can do these things. Yet nowhere do the "virtual life" aspects of Desperate Housewives 
 seem more superficial than in your choice of attire. Yes, you have the option of going to the shopping 
 mall and purchasing different clothes for your housewife alter ego (you may also update your home 
 with better furniture, different flooring, and so on) . However, how you're dressed seems to have 
 no impact on gameplay at all. So, for instance, you can walk right into Lynette's house wearing 
 practically nothing, walk past her three young kids, and go use her computer without anyone saying 
 anything.  

  There are a few basic minigames included to help pass the time. You can tend to your garden by 
 spraying pests and keeping your flowers watered. You can cook a variety of dishes with some mouse 
 clicks and side-to-side stirring motions. And you can play Texas Hold 'Em either in a fake online 
 setting or against the other housewives. All of these minigames come up as part of the storyline, 
 and none are particularly engaging.  

  The rest of the game boils down to going from point A to point B, completing a mostly linear series 
 of goals usually just by talking to the right people. The game leads you by the nose the whole 
 way through, and some of the goals are quite tedious, involving jaunts back and forth from the 
 shopping mall or treks all around the neighborhood. Thankfully, you can double the game speed and 
 instantly "teleport" between the different homes on Wisteria Lane, which helps keep the pace going. 
 The entire game is structured like a season of the show, as a series of brief episodes all bookended 
 by some oblique narrative from Brenda Strong, the show's narrator. It'll take you maybe 10 hours 
 to play through, so there's more to the story than you'd probably expect from a TV show-licensed 
 computer game.  

          Poker and a few other minigames are there to give you something to do in between all the 
 chatting and gossiping.     

  One aspect of Desperate Housewives that was borrowed a little too faithfully from The Sims is the 
 overall sluggish feel of the gameplay. Simply talking to another character forces clunky little 
 animations as the two characters arrange themselves so that they're perfectly face to face. The 
 different housewives look recognizably similar to their TV counterparts, but other than that, the 
 game really isn't much to look at. Flat lighting effects and saturated colors make this look much 
 more like a generic computer game than the TV show. Apart from your character, all the other characters 
 are fully voiced, and the voice acting is passable. There's not a lot to say about the rest of 
 the audio, though the musical score sounds straight out of the show, with lots of playful plucking 
 of violin strings and the like. The only other aspect of Desperate Housewives' presentation that 
 will likely catch your eye is how the game is laced with some real-world products and advertisements 
 for those products. You'll see real banner ads while using a fake in-game Web browser, for instance. 
 In fairness, there's some clear product placement on the show itself, and most of the in-game ads 
 here are appropriate in context.  

  A lot of games based on movie or television licenses are flat-out bad, either because they're not 
 any fun to play or they don't have any new or interesting material in them. Desperate Housewives 
 is a different story. You can tell that the developers at Liquid Entertainment, known for some 
 solid and inventive real-time strategy games, really dumbed this thing down so that, presumably, 
 a nongamer might like it more. That's a bit of a shame, but on the flip side, Desperate Housewives 
 is fully competent fan service, basically a computer-game version of an unaired season of the show. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Violetto
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Desperate Housewives: The Game is very much like The Sims, except there is an actual aim to the 
 game. All the main characters from the show are in the game in their sim form, and they look somewhat 
 like their human counterpart. As far as I know, Brenda Strong (as Mary-Alice) is the only well-known 
 character whose voice is in the game, but the other voices are good enough to pass for who they 
 are supposed to be.
  As a fan of the TV show, I was bound to love this game. Its similar to Hotel Dusk for the DS, in 
 that you play out a story. The story itself is very entertaining, I won't give it away but it keeps 
 you guessing throughout and there are multiple endings. There is also alot of humour, the character 
 speech is hilarious and I never got tired of getting my character to sleep with random people of 
 the street! The game is fairly long, although this is only if you read the character speech, as 
 the speech takes up ALOT of the game. I would say to only get this game if you like Desperate Housewives 
 or errand games as you spend most of the time carrying out tasks; going shopping, talking to people, 
 playing games, picking up things for people. The minigames are also quite entertaining, there is 
 cooking and gardening and a poker minigame which I never really got into. However, the good gameplay 
 was letdown by fairly poor graphics - they are much worse than The Sims 2, and even for powerful 
 computers the highest graphical options give nasty graphics. Therefore I found decorating the house 
 and characters appearance a bit pointless because you couldn't appreciate them, unlike in The Sims 
 2. The replay value is also very bad, as there is little point in replaying the story when you 
 know what the ending is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseoakhood
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  You will live a housewife's life and everything what belong to it:
  cooking, shopping, gossiping and everything what you can imagine.
  The gameplay is kinda The 
 Sims -style and it works correctly.
  The graphics are fair, you can recognize the characters of the show,
  the Wisteria Lane looks 
 really the same as in real,
  the sounds are correct, everybody has their own synchronized voice.
  Every character has their 
 own attributes:
  the moving, the speeking-style , everything is like in the show.
  The creators of the game reached what they want.
  The storyline is amazing, it's like you get 
 a part in the whole story!
  Those, who really like Desperate Housewives, they gonna love this game!
  You can be a part of 
 the Wisteria Lane! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adelaideJohn196
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Deperate Housewives is played in a very similar vain to The Sims, and
  if you're a fan of that you will probably get into this very quickly.
  
  The game has all the 
 characters from the TV show, minus their real voices
  as none of the original show cast lent their talents to the character voices
  apart from Brenda 
 Strong who does the narration for the actual TV show.
  
  There's not a lot in regards to choice regarding what your character
  does, but there's enough 
 to keep the game going. Again if you're a fan
  of the show this might appeal to you. I think this is who the game makers
  were trying to target. 
 There are some flaws. The characters look a little flat as is the lighting
  in the game. The plusses are the music, which could almost be the
  same as that on the TV show. 
 The music alone gave the atmosphere that
  I was participating in this unaired mini season of the TV show. This
  game is a definite guilty 
 pleasure as a semi fan of the show I liked it
  a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SongokuCY
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a nice game, its like the Sims but desperate housewife's Sims. The game play is great, 
 it gives you the grace of the actual series by smacking someone in the face, say secrets, talk 
 to each others back and more. The music is good because is like the series, although the graphics 
 suck because their not detailed. (Sims are better in graphics) . Nudity crack is a must if this 
 game is to get more appreciated :) Looking forward to it, until then I don't think I will play 
 it anymore. In general this is a good game but it could be great with only minor changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elkennethio
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 8, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Why hath the once hallowed genre of computer gaming originally graced by such inspirational games 
 as elite and civilization been spoiled by this travesty?!?!?!?! Considering throwing my computer 
 out the window and setting fire to my head, surely those who are inane enough to enjoy the televisual 
 feast that is desperate housewives are also too inane to operate a PC. Whilst I may have spent 
 many an hour in the pub this evening drowning the many sorrows of the eternal computer game obsessed 
 loser I at least have not mustered the urge to play or even buy this rubbish. Sympton of the condition 
 from which the human race is currently suffering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uni3223
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  The overall graphics of the game was alright, but the game itself was all wrong. The storyline 
 did not make much sense towards the end and the game itself was waaayyyy too short. I was able 
 to finish the entire game in an afternoon! There was no challenge whatsoever.........., I totally 
 understood the nature of the game and I thought is was cool you are able to make your own character 
 (with limited choices) . The overall game is pretty good if you like watching the televsion show, 
 it has all the characters from the show, so you get to interact with all of them while playing 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lthill
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I like Housewives. It is a little like the Sims but more like an adventure game. Having goals and 
 objectives makes it more fun than the Sims.
  I hope they make another expansion on the Housewives soon. I like being able to change the action 
 based on how you talk with the other characters. You can be naughty or nice, or a little of both. 
 The way your chacter respons to others changes the actions they take.
  I do wish your could choose the members of your family and not have it decided for you. They need 
 to allow more types body shapes and clothes.
  The interactions need to be more personalized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Chad-127
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is just like The Sims 2. You have a family, you can have affairs and after 10-PM you 
 can snoop around!! The Housewives voice bothered me a bit. Bree sounds like she is really sick, 
 Gaby does not sound ANYTHING like her. But Edie looks and sounds the worst [No wonder I found a 
 FREE MAKEOVER CARD in her house!] My computers does not have the right things to play another big 
 game like that... so if we had it fixed, game play would be top marks.
  
  Thanks for reading my piece of mind.
  [Or the very little I have of it anyways] 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
