-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Destroyer Command
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/destroyercommand/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  1, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.5
Critic Score: 5.8, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 85 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ultimation Inc.
Genre: Naval Sim
Date:     Feb 17, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is a blatant and insulting instance of a game released too early to the detriment of the people 
 who buy it. 

 Sometimes software is released in such a wretched state that the developers may as well just come 
 to your house and kick your dog for $40. This is the case with Destroyer Command, a painful instance 
 of just how shameless and insulting a computer game company can be with its customers.         
   Near miss by a kamikaze.    

  Destroyer Command is the spiritual heir to all those Great Naval Battle games SSI used to publish. 
 You command a ship (or ships, in some cases) from either an overhead map view or by jumping around 
 the various stations, where you flip switches, twiddle dials, and look at gauges. But whereas the 
 Great Naval Battles series put you on the bridges of the century's grandest battleships, Destroyer 
 Command relegates you to their little cousins, the destroyer escorts in World War II who kept enemy 
 subs at bay. While this might seem like a less glamorous command, it does open the game to antisubmarine 
 warfare, a topic that hasn't been covered in a sim since Novalogic's 1990 game Wolfpack. It also 
 means you'll get to use torpedo launchers, which were the real teeth of destroyers in that era. 
 Since you usually have to get in close to fire torpedoes, using them requires more finesse than 
 simply plugging away with your 5-inch guns.   

  The developers at Ultimation created this sim as a companion to last year's Silent Hunter II, a 
 submarine sim that was supposed to be "interoperational" with Destroyer Command. What this means 
 is that you can link them together and play multiplayer games in which some players drive subs 
 and some players drive destroyers. At least that's how the theory goes. As of two weeks after the 
 game's release, there's no support for "interoperation" and no official word on when a patch will 
 be available. Considering how long the deeply flawed Silent Hunter II has remained unpatched (five 
 months and counting) , this doesn't bode well. Note that this didn't stop Ubi Soft from advertising 
 this feature on its Web site, on the game box, and in the manual. "One of the most exciting features 
 of Destroyer Command is the ability to play cooperatively or head-to-head against other Destroy 
 Command or Silent Hunter II owners," the manual states optimistically. There isn't even a correction 
 for this in the readme file.   

  There is multiplayer support for destroyer-only games. Since real engagements can last hours, the 
 time compression works by selecting the slowest speed chosen by all the players, which lets the 
 boring stretches speed past at whatever pace players choose. You can play deathmatches, cooperative 
 missions against computer-controlled vessels, and even base-capture games. While these work well 
 enough over a LAN, Destroyer Command repeatedly drops out of sync and crashes when played over 
 Ubi Soft's online matching service, ubi. com.           The game is almost entirely playable from 
 this screen.    

  The single-player game consists mainly of two campaigns, each a linear set of about 20 canned missions. 
 Because Hitler's surface navy was quickly defeated, the Atlantic campaign should have been mainly 
 sub hunting, but Destroyer Command goes out of its way to put you in the middle of surface battles 
 against German raiders and even Italian ships in the Mediterranean. The far more interesting campaign 
 is set in the Pacific, where you get to participate in historical highlights like "running the 
 slot" to Guadalcanal, covering MacArthur's triumphant return to the Philippines, and even a late-war 
 drive on Japan itself. At one point, you help kick the Japanese off an island at the tip of Alaska, 
 a completely inconsequential exchange of land notable as the only time foreign troops have seized 
 American territory. There are a couple of attempts at carrier battles, arguably the deciding factors 
 in the war against Japan, but Destroyer Command presents these epic struggles with all the accuracy 
 and grandeur of a third-grade Thanksgiving pageant. You can set up epic naval encounters by using 
 the custom mission generator, which lets you throw in everything but the kitchen sink. Unfortunately, 
 there's no random generator, so you always know exactly what you're facing before you ever see 
 it on the map.   

  Because the challenge of submarine warfare is the uncertainty of being hidden underwater, Ultimation's 
 submarine sim Silent Hunter II suffered greatly from its canned missions. During the inevitable 
 replays, knowing exactly what you would be facing and where it would be located killed the thrill 
 of the hunt. But this isn't so much a problem with surface warfare, where the challenge is maneuvering 
 into position once you've made contact. In a way, Destroyer Command plays like a wargame, and the 
 scenarios are like set-piece battles in which you have to figure out the best tactics. There are 
 still plenty of aggravating situations when you have to repeatedly replay a mission to accomplish 
 some objective, but it doesn't drag the game down as much as it did in Silent Hunter II.    
 

 What does drag the game down, and what's been preserved intact since Silent Hunter II, is the horrible 
 AI. Ships plow into other ships in their convoy. Ships plow into their targets. Ships plow into 
 sinking hulks. Ships plow into submarines, which don't have the presence of mind to dive below 
 periscope depth when a destroyer is bearing down on them. Ships plow into islands and entire continents. 
 When they're not plowing into obstacles, ships behave as if their captains skipped class the day 
 maneuvers were being taught at the Naval Academy. They won't dodge torpedoes, and they won't split 
 into separate groups to draw fire. In a game where the challenge is one of maneuvering, it's as 
 if your opponent isn't even bothering to play. They won't stay in formation properly, and they're 
 more than happy to let loose a spread of torpedoes into the hull of a friendly ship 200 yards away. 
 It's one of the most egregious instances of friendly fire you'll ever see in a game when a single 
 destroyer sinks all three ships in its squadron with one volley of torpedoes. Destroyer Command 
 is like Disney's Boatniks, but with guns and torpedoes.           This is what you get to drive. 
    

  Aside from the fact that the AI seems incapable of simulating anything like real naval actions, 
 there are some historical peccadilloes. The "waves" of planes coming in four at a time are more 
 like Galaga than actual antishipping attacks. A valuable function performed by destroyers was laying 
 smoke screens to protect the bigger ships, but there's no provision for this here. Any self-respecting 
 naval sim should have a damage model that takes into account hitting ammo magazines, the rare and 
 catastrophic equivalent of a critical hit that decided several encounters by instantly destroying 
 crucial ships. Submarines were rarely as aggressive against destroyers as they are in Destroyer 
 Command, where they'll squander valuable torpedoes taking hopeless shots at an approaching destroyer 
 instead of diving. In reality, those torpedoes were usually reserved for important targets like 
 merchants and capital ships.   

  The graphics engine doesn't hold up very well at all. The ship models are serviceable, but everything 
 else is perfunctory at best. Damage effects are canned fire animations, blooming predictably from 
 ship models like orange flowers. When ships sink, they invariably list to one side and then drop 
 straight down as if they were melting into the ocean. The weather effects are almost nonexistent, 
 there's a conspicuous absence of men on the decks of ships, and the water doesn't do anything but 
 undulate and sparkle. Carriers don't even have planes on their decks. The smoke effects look good, 
 particularly in the aftermath of a battle, but they kill frame rates on even the fastest computers. 
 There's no gamma adjustment, and even daytime missions in clear weather can be dark and muddled. 
   

  With computers as powerful as they are, and with CPU cycles to spare because the AI is obviously 
 not using them, Destroyer Command should have looked much better than it does. By way of example, 
 there are some later missions that have you attacking gun emplacements on the shore to cover ground 
 troops. Although there's potential here to create a memorable visual experience, all you get are 
 vaguely boxy shapes set on featureless island terrain. Nighttime missions with star shells illuminating 
 their targets are a great opportunity for eerie dynamic lighting, but there's nothing of the sort 
 in Destroyer Command.   

  Finally, there are the inconsistent interface and the broken features. The manual seems to have 
 been based on a different build of the game than what actually shipped. There are scattered hotkeys 
 for some features, but you can't reconfigure them. You can't invert the mouse for the gunnery stations, 
 and there's no way to adjust its sluggish sensitivity. There's a row of pop-up buttons to jump 
 to different stations, but they're hidden by default, and they don't pop up until after a short 
 delay; it's as if screen real estate was suddenly so valuable that those 30 pixels along the bottom 
 of the screen couldn't be spared. One problem the developers haven't even attempted to solve is 
 that there's no reason to visit most of the stations. You can do almost everything from the efficient 
 and informative overhead map. Ultimation went to all the trouble of creating stations that let 
 you take direct control of the finer points of the game -- torpedo settings, gunnery, depth-charge 
 runs, engine management, sonar, and radar -- but because there's absolutely no incentive to do so, 
 the developers effectively rendered their hard work superfluous.           This is what you see 
 when you use the vessel-identification utility.    

  It doesn't help that some of these stations are useless at best and broken at worst. For instance, 
 the hydrophone at the sonar station doesn't work, so you can't take control of it to listen for 
 subs and enemy ships. There's no way to set your heading from the helm short of manually moving 
 the rudder. The depth-charge screen is useless as anything other than a place you have to visit 
 to press the space bar if you want to drop depth charges manually. There's never any time in the 
 game you'd need to visit the engine room, which allows for absolutely useless things like linking 
 individual boilers to turbines.   

  Most of these problems are as obvious as a pig on a sofa, so how could they have slipped through 
 the QA process? Ubi Soft apparently didn't skip the QA because there are 25 testers listed in the 
 credits, including a reputable naval simulation Web site (www. navalwarfare. org) . It's inconceivable 
 that none of these testers noticed problems with the AI, the interface, and the broken features. 
 Part of why Destroyer Command is so painful is that it comes from companies that should know better. 
 The publisher, Ubi Soft, gave us one of the latest greatest sims to date in IL-2 Sturmovik. Producer 
 Carl Norman has overseen classic sims like the aforementioned Great Naval Battles series, IL-2, 
 Su-27 Flanker, and the Harpoon naval strategy games. The developers at Ultimation have been making 
 sims for five years, some of which aren't bad. The state of Destroyer Command cannot be attributed 
 to oversight or inexperience. This is a blatant and insulting instance of a game released too early 
 to the detriment of the people who buy it. If you're thinking of being one of those people, at 
 least wait to see if Ultimation and Ubi Soft get around to finishing it. Otherwise, you might as 
 well just find your dog, kick her, and throw $40 in the trash.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mtdewtag
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Destroyer Command
  
  Have you ever wondered what it would be like to stand on the deck of an old tin can and feel the 
 ocean breeze on your face. As the deck beneath your boots rocks gently as you are the Commanding 
 Officer of a WWII US Navy Destroyer.
  
  Gameplay very basic and if you played Silent Hunter you will recognize a very familiar interface. 
 The game allows you to make some modifications mainly how realistic do you want the game to be. 
 After that you are the one in charge. Your crew will follow your orders but be ready to step in 
 and to take over. 
  
  The ships handle quite well but you have to keep on your toes if you are maneuvering within a convey. 
 Mainly the NPC ships will stay whatever course they are on and will not make any attempt to deviate 
 from that course to avoid a collision. 
  
  Graphics are above average. Damage to other other vessels and yours is however limited to black 
 billowing smoke and the occasional orange flames. Outside of that the graphics will not hold your 
 attention for very long.
  
  Sound average. Mostly it is there for background to give you the feel that you are aboard a US 
 Navy destroyer.
  
  Value. If you are a big war sim fan this game might not be for you. Other then the single player 
 mode this game has very little offer in replay value. Also a while back UBISoft finally made a 
 patch so you can play both Destroyer Command and Silent Hunter on-line together. If you know someone 
 with Silent Hunter you could challenge them to an on-line battle. However the on-line battles are 
 limited to the single player campaigns so the replay value on this goes down as you and your opponent 
 learn one another's tactics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 9, 2005 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Its a pity this game has had such bad reviews, because its not at all that bad! 
  
  At the time it was released. the graphics of Destroyer Command were good. They may not have been 
 brilliant, or not the best, but they are definitely worth more than the 4/10 that the Gamespot 
 reviewer gave it. The wave simulations and wakes from the ships' screws are well modelled, and 
 the detail of the ships was, at the time, the best to date for ships of this era. The graphics 
 are the same as those in Silent Hunter 2 so I dont know Tom Chick, gave them 5 in Silent Hunter 
 2, and only 4 in Destroyer Command, since these games were released more or less at the same time.
 
  
  Having said that, I'll move on to the sound. Apart from the sudden stopping and starting of the 
 ships engines (which could have been a smooth transition) , the sounds of this sim are also good. 
 As you move from station to station, you hear the various sounds associated with that compartment, 
 and in the background the general "hum" of the engines. Out on deck, we hear the wind and waves 
 washing against the hull. Nice! 
  
  As far as gameplay is concerned, the out of the box version does not deliver what it promised, 
 since you can't play online with SH2 as promised, and the AI of the non-player controlled ships 
 is bad. Also, theres a bug in it that causes an error message  as Tom Chick pointed out in his 
 review. Thankfully, the UbiSoft patch that followed its premature release ironed out these problems. 
 
  
  On to the gameplay. Tom complains that the allowing the player manual control of the guns, torpedos 
 and other stations is useless, quote: 
  "Ultimation went to all the trouble of creating stations that let you take direct control of the 
 finer points of the game -- torpedo settings, gunnery, depth-charge runs, engine management, sonar, 
 and radar -- but because there's absolutely no incentive to do so, the developers effectively rendered 
 their hard work superfluous." 
  
  In response to this, I would say that most people who buy simulators are interested in doing things 
 manually, which is large part of the gameplay. I personally find it fun and a challenge. Destroyer 
 Command is one of the few, true, ship simulators available. It allows you to navigate and sail 
 a heavy vessel in rough seas, in convoys, in differing weather conditions etc. You can man various 
 stations, such as gun control, torpedo control, depth charge control or the bridge, and issue commands 
 like general quarters or formation commands. You can man the main gun turrets, as wells as machine 
 guns and AA guns. This is fun if, like me, you like ships.
  
  This simulator has a fan following, so if you are prepared to visit www. subsim. com (or other fan-sites) , 
 you will find many patches and free add-ons and enhancements for it, including a Mission Editor 
 and excellent voice pack. I recommend you get these, since they greatly enhance the out of the 
 box game. 
  
  As to value? Well, out of the box, it wasn't worth $40.00. But now? The game can be found cheaply 
 in the bargin bin and the bugs have been fixed. Also, when determining value of games like this, 
 one should take into account this fan community and their add-ons, since all these enhancements 
 add to the sim's value and keeps it going. This kind of thing kept Falcon 4.0 going for years, 
 even after it's developers went bankrupt, so that now it is arguably the best Fighter Sim available... 
 
  
  In addition to the game, there are other goodies on the CD, like a virtual reality Destroyer tour, 
 which allows you to visit rooms on a late WWII destroyer, and pan round them using a panoramic 
 photograph viewing technique, which is actually quite cool. 
  I guess the fun of this Destroyer Command depends largely on whether you like the sea, ships and 
 WWII. Or not! I do, and if you do, then this game as it stands now is well worth having! 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
