-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Destination: Treasure Island
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/destinationtreasureisland/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Puzzles rooted in common sense.
 Good storyline that follows the characters and events of the original novel.
 Picturesque Caribbean locales.
 Solid voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Puzzle design isn't as imaginative as it could be.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 24, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 169 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Dreamcatcher
Developer: Kheops Studio
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Aug 21, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sensible puzzles and an adventurous story make Destination: Treasure Island a treat for all ages. 
 

  Logical adventure games don't come along very often, so the arrival of Kheops Studio's Destination: 
 Treasure Island is cause for celebration. This sequel to Robert Louis Stevenson's classic pirate 
 novel is long on common sense and short on the unreasonable puzzles that force so many fans of 
 this genre to turn to online walkthroughs. Such a straightforward focus gives the game the atmosphere 
 of a lighthearted swashbuckling quest, not the journey into frustration that adventures frequently 
 devolve into after the first hour or two of play.  

           No pirate game would be complete without a mysterious treasure chest buried on a tropical 
 island.      

  The plot picks up five years after the events recounted in Stevenson's novel. As the action opens, 
 Jim Hawkins is now running a shipping business in the Caribbean and reminiscing a bit about his 
 old pal Long John Silver. However, before he can wax too nostalgic, he's locked in his cabin by 
 three of the mutinous rogues he encountered way back when, which forces him to make a quick escape 
 that lands him marooned on Emerald Isle. The storyline is a bit poorly developed at this point, 
 but the island turns out to apparently be the new stomping grounds of Silver. Old Long John has 
 set up an elaborate treasure hunt for Jim, with the assistance of his parrot and a rhyming riddle 
 that gives hints on how to unlock the island's many secrets.  

  It's this lengthy piratical doggerel that makes Destination: Treasure Island such a pleasure. The 
 rhyming couplets provide just enough clues to ensure that you generally won't get too frustrated. 
 For example, at one point you're stuck with a locked gate and given only the lines "But are you 
 lost and running blind?/Well, friend, if you've got a black spot/Look at it and you will find." 
 Nobody's going to win any prizes for the quality of this verse, but these lines pretty clearly 
 tell you that the solution to opening the gate can be found by looking closely at the infamous 
 black spot that the mutinous sailors presented to Silver in the original novel. Sure enough, an 
 examination of the spot reveals the code needed to unlock the door and journey to the second section 
 of the island. Likewise, you progress through the poem by section, with the game crossing off lines 
 whenever you solve the riddles that they present. This further prevents you from getting lost or 
 frustrated, given that you're pretty much always working on just a single problem at a time. It 
 also makes the game friendlier to younger players, who might not be able to keep track of the various 
 puzzle and plot threads that fill up the typical adventure game.  

  About the only drawback here is the similarity between the different puzzles. Most involve picking 
 up and combining various objects, so there is something of a pixel hunt going on here. Nevertheless, 
 all important items are easy to spot, which means that you don't have to scour every square inch 
 of every screen. As long as you pan the first-person viewing perspective all around each location, 
 it's tough to miss key items and trigger points important to solving the game's various conundrums. 
 Still, there are only a few logic puzzles in the game, and most of these are readily solvable by 
 simply reading Silver's poem and experimenting with the items in your inventory. Occasionally you'll 
 engage in some basic memorization, as with one memorable moment when you sing a duet of "Yo-Ho-Ho 
 and a Bottle of Rum" with Silver's parrot. Real uniqueness is added only with knot-tying challenges, 
 where you pick from two choices to tie the requested nautical knot, and these are so simplistic 
 that they're more annoying than enjoyable.  

           Pirates, gibbets, and famous drinking songs complete the yo-ho-ho atmosphere.      

 
  The look and sound of the game are somewhat dated, although not so behind the times as to be a 
 bother. It is based on the old first-person style popularized by Myst, so play can feel a bit clunky 
 on occasion. Despite this, you never feel limited by such static movement and the ability to spin 
 in place and check out your environments. Many of the tropical scenes are quite picturesque, which 
 also makes the game appear more modern than the engine that powers everything. Audio is highlighted 
 by some great voice work from the actor playing Jim. He perfectly balances the characterization 
 between the teen of the original story and the young businessman and sailor that Jim has grown 
 into here. Unfortunately, the music is a bit of a letdown, as it doesn't feature any of the jaunty 
 pirate tunes that you would expect from a game like this.  

  Sensible and fun, Destination: Treasure Island is a must for anyone who likes a good pirate yarn. 
 There isn't anything here that's particularly innovative, although traditional adventures are rarely 
 this rational and enjoyable.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RighteousAnger
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  This game was sort of a deviation for me as far as the type of games I typically play, which are 
 usually strategy, first person shooter, or RPG styles. I've only played a few Adventure style games 
 which always seemed to disappoint me in some way. Whether it's a weak and boring storyline, ridiculous 
 puzzles that are far too difficult or otherwise illogical and ultimately distract from the game, 
 horrid voice overs, or clunky and irritating interface. Honestly, I found none of those issues 
 with this game. The story and game play are not very original and can feel a bit adolescent... but 
 on the whole it was still nice to play and fairly challenging enough for an adult. The environment 
 is nice, and the puzzles, while overall pretty easy, were still fairly challenging, interesting 
 and fun to me. I really enjoyed how intuitive they were. Figuring out what needed to be done was 
 rarely an issue, it was simply figuring out how you were going to do it with the items that you 
 had available to you that was the challenge. In quite a few other Adventure games you might be 
 presented with the challenge of having to depose of a particular enemy. Within your vicinity or 
 inventory, you might have a baseball bat. And you notice the guy isn't looking at you. So you think, 
 "If this were me in real life, I'd pop the homie over the head." However, when you try to do that, 
 the game may respond with something like, "Not here, not now, I've got more important things to 
 focus on." Then, when out of frustration, you revert to a walk-through, you find out that what 
 you are supposed to do is to pick up a shard of glass from the window you broke into the joint 
 through. Then, wrap it in gauze you're supposed to find over in some "cleverly" hidden medicine 
 cabinet. Then use your "cunningly devised" weapon to cut a length of unused electrical wire hidden 
 over in some dark corner, for which you ultimately use to sneak up on the unsuspecting scumbag 
 in order to choke him to death. Now granted, that scenario may not be so bad if the bat was NOT 
 available to me. I think you get the picture. Well, you'd be hard pressed to find a situation like 
 that in this game. Only once in the game did I say, "Well, I don't think I would've done it that 
 way." Also, there was only once where I had to use a hint from a walk-through, after which, I slapped 
 my forehead and said, "Very clever and logical, based on the items I had, even though I'll admit 
 that I would never have thought of that." 
  Voice acting was well done, and the graphics were fairly nice. The first-person POV makes the world 
 seem a bit larger than it actually is and allows you to actually feel a part of it. The only real 
 issue I had with the game, was its brevity. From the time I put the disk in to begin installation, 
 to the moment I finished the game was maybe 7 hours. And since there's virtually no replay ability 
 with it, it's sort of a let-down... especially with the price I paid for it. 
  So here's the rap, very nice and enjoyable game over all, but wait till it drops in price or hits 
 the $10 rack. Or even better if you can borrow it from a friend. It won't take you long to finish 
 and you can return it to them during your coffee break at work the next day. Would be nice if they 
 came out with another game utilizing similar problem solving strategies, only make it a bit lengthier. 
 
  
  Pros: 
  - Most all puzzles are enjoyable and intuitive. 
  - First-person POV, the environment, and story all make for a nice emersive atmosphere. 
  - Voice 
 acting is above average for most Adventure games (that I've played anyway) 
  - Interface is easy. 
  
  Cons: 
  - Story is unoriginal (although it is still pretty enjoyable) 
 
  - A few puzzles were a little too simplistic. 
  - Not long enough....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  What are the makings of a classic? When it comes to adventure games, you can perhaps narrow it 
 down to: a great plot, nice graphics and enthrailing puzzles. And where, recently, can we find 
 the three? Rare enough, eh?
  
  Well then, by those standards, 'Destination: Treasure Island' is not a classic. But does it really 
 matter? With some breathtaking graphics (despite a rather poor looking main character and matching 
 female partner) and some of the most challenging puzzles ever found in an adventure game (that 
 I've played, at least!) , D: TI provides an entertaining experience, fit for pretty much everyone.
 
  
  As I've said, the plot is rather shallow, with very little explanation being provided on the background 
 of your character, Jim Hawkings, or the nature of his friendship with the old pirate, Long John 
 Silver. You're pretty much thrown into this adventure, and only the sheer effectiveness of the 
 puzzle progression is there to drive you forward.
  
  Indeed, the game progresses as you solve a series of riddles, each with several clues as to what 
 you are supposed to do. This may be in the form of finding the right item, or combining them, if 
 necessary - the game has a nice compose\decompose items option that make the old inventory based 
 puzzles harder, yet more logical - or hints to help you decypher and solve several different styles 
 of quests. These are immensely varied, ranging from matching Mayan calendar disks, to adjusting 
 swords as to raise a barred gate.
  
  The game's sound is well done, both in the environmental aspect, such as the hammering of wood 
 planks, or the 'sounds of the jungle'; and on the voice acting, though there are few enough characters 
 on a 'deserted island'.
  
  The graphs are amazing: the characters' skin glows, the beaches shine, and the caves are dark and 
 murky, all made to 'feel' real life, while clearly making reference to the stereotypical pirate 
 eras (I'm guessing all wasn't joyful in a pirate island...) . It is also worth mentioning, that, 
 unlike in some games, every interactable item is clear, visually standing out.
  
  The gameplay is old-school, to say the least. Point and click... Ever heard of it? Yep, the same. 
 It still works, you know... The cursor changes from the movement arrow to gears, to operate, or 
 eyes, to observe, imediately as you move it over an interactable object. When something is lacking 
 so that you can operate certain device, the gears are crossed with a red line. The camera angles 
 are in full 360 motions around you, and you must only move your cursor to each of the four corners 
 of your screen to pan the camera to that direction.
  
  With all those characteristics, you can safely say that if only it had a more elaborate plot, and 
 perhaps a longer gaming time, 'Destination: Treasure Island' could be amongst the classics of adventure 
 gaming. Still, it has pretty decent graphics and a nice range of puzzles to get the player going 
 on.
  
  It is plain fun... So what if it's not a classic? It still has two out of three main characteristics 
 to get an adventure gamer drooling. And I haven't got a problem with 'two out of three' games... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkbandit
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  When I first began to play I was astounded by the graphics. I then just looked around a bit and 
 thought the good was game was going to be good. Once on the island I found the game lonely and 
 I was already using a walkthrough within the first hour. Your only friend in the game is a red 
 parrot who doesnt help very much. The instant traveling on the map is helpful and saves time. You 
 normally have to explore the entire island just to find something. I found the knot tying annoying 
 because there is no manual on how to do them so you have to guess alot. Another thing is that you 
 often find things you won't need until later on in the game. This makes you feel as though everything 
 is just sitting there waiting for you to do something with it. There are no affects of this so 
 the graphics are the only thing that makes the game feel real. Overall I feel this game is hard 
 boring, hard, and lonely. You would be way better getting another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javanniekerk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  ( (Apologies for the long paragraph below; line breaks simply won't cooperate with me in this review!) )
 
  
  It's not often that a passable, let alone good, adventure games comes along. Ever since Myst set 
 the standard, few companies have tried very hard to buck convention and come up with something 
 really different. While Destination: Treasure Island won't win any awards for groundbreaking innovation, 
 it still manages to breathe new life into a genre that has been growing steadily more stale.
  
  An excellent story gives the game a strong foundation. The story takes shape soon after the 
 game starts, and develops steadily as you go on. While many adventures often leave you wondering 
 why you're there, or why you would even want to be, there is no what's my motivation vaguery here. 
 It's excellently crafted and draws you right in, and sets the backdrop for everything else.
  
  Graphically, the game is inspiring. While 99% of the game takes place on the same island, the 
 scenery is so vibrant and beautifully rendered that they never grow old or boring. Occasional hints 
 of life, such as lizards, spiders, and other bugs, as well as Captain Flint (Long John's trusty 
 parrot) , contribute to a feeling of being in a real, living place. With dark, dank caves, murky 
 swamps and brightly lit beaches, you'll feel like you've really landed on a tropical island. The 
 immersive environment is rounded out by excellent music and ambient sound. The music underscores 
 the adventurous, somewhat jaunty feel of the adventure. But the brightest note is struck by the 
 voice actors. The lead character is voiced wonderfully, perfectly capturing the sweet yet bold 
 nature of Jim Hawkins. Even the supporting characters are well played, and manage to capture that 
 piratey essence without being hokey or contrived. I maintain that puzzle play is the most essential 
 part of any adventure game, and Destination: Treasure Island excels. Puzzles are wonderfully logical, 
 each feeling like a natural obstacle to overcome. Long John provides you with an enigma that pretty 
 much maps out your journey without making it too easy. Amusingly, I missed one of the key clues 
 in the enigma, and found my answer by turning to Google (and not to a walkthrough) . You get the 
 feeling of truly participating in genuine pirate behavior, rather than simply solving arbitrary 
 puzzles. The game even recognizes creative attempts to solve puzzles, such as trying to use a lens 
 to start a fire. It may not work, but the game understands what you were thinking. The ability 
 to combine inventory items to create new ones, and even better, to reuse old items in new ways, 
 contributes to the logical feel of the puzzle play. Few, if any, of the puzzles will send you running 
 for a walkthrough, yet manage to be challenging enough to be rewarding.
  
  My only beef with Destination: Treasure Island is that is was rather short. This is mainly due 
 to the fact that I truly enjoyed playing the game and was simply disappointed that it was over. 
 All in all, the game was a pure delight, leaving me hopeful for an equally wonderful sequel. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
