-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Deus Ex: Invisible War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/deusexinvisiblewar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 51 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 2,913 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Ion Storm
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Dec 2, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Deus Ex: Invisible War can be highly rewarding, as long as you're willing to look past some problems 
 along the way. 

  Sci-fi action and intrigue are deeply intertwined in Deus Ex: Invisible War, the sequel to 2000's 
 Deus Ex, a first-person cyberpunk thriller in which your decisions -- as a cybernetically enhanced 
 secret agent -- ultimately decided the fate of the world. The original Deus Ex earned considerable 
 acclaim for its cerebral storyline and its seamless integration of role-playing elements, which 
 collectively added up to a memorable and surprisingly open-ended experience. Invisible War shares 
 many great qualities with its predecessor, though it inherits most of the same shortcomings. It's 
 also one of the first games to make extensive use of dynamic lighting and (relatively) realistic 
 physics, though these rather impressive technical features also have certain drawbacks. The sum 
 total of these factors can be highly rewarding, as long as you're willing to look past some problems 
 along the way.  

          Deus Ex: Invisible War provides more of its predecessor's unique blend of action, stealth, 
 and role-playing in a grim sci-fi setting.     

  At first glance, Deus Ex: Invisible War appears to be a science-fiction themed first-person shooter, 
 but, like its predecessor, it's really more of a role-playing game that's played from a first-person 
 perspective. You play as Alex D. (whose gender may be chosen at the outset of the game) , a trainee 
 at Tarsus Academy, which is a school for gifted youths who graduate to become covert operatives. 
 In the introductory sequence to Invisible War, the city of Chicago is wiped out by a terrorist 
 attack that was seemingly targeted at Tarsus. You and some of the others from Tarsus manage to 
 escape and are transplanted to another Tarsus campus in Seattle. The game itself begins when you 
 awaken in your new apartment. You're asked to report in with the other Tarsus trainees, but now 
 something else is amiss. You soon find that there seem to be at least a couple of different factions 
 interested in either the destruction of or the acquisition of Tarsus' student body -- your "student 
 body" included. The storyline of Invisible War is comparable to that of the original game in that 
 the premise is, by all means, intriguing and original. Additionally, there are a number of surprises 
 waiting to be discovered. However, this isn't really a character-driven storyline. Right from the 
 start, you'll be very mistrustful of virtually everyone you meet. The world of the game is every 
 bit as cold as it appears to be.  

  Of further note, Invisible War's story becomes much more interesting later on as it starts to tie 
 in with that of the original Deus Ex. Yet this is also the point at which those who are unfamiliar 
 with the particulars of the first game's plot will probably start to feel bewildered. Invisible 
 War includes a little bit of background material for those who haven't finished the original game, 
 but, as with most any direct sequel, you'll have trouble getting as involved in the story unless 
 you have the experience of the original to draw upon.  

  Anyway, you'll quickly learn that there's much more to Tarsus than meets the eye. Once you leave 
 the facility (or, once you manage to escape from the facility, depending on how you look at it) , 
 you'll then get to wander around Seattle looking for some answers. Your journey will eventually 
 take you to other parts of the world, including Egypt and Germany, and soon things will start to 
 become clear. Invisible War isn't entirely open-ended, but within each main segment of the game, 
 you'll be able to travel in and around a central hub area of some sort. From here you'll be able 
 to subsequently take on assignments from various characters -- at your discretion and at your leisure. 

  You'll frequently be asked to accomplish mutually exclusive objectives for competing factions. 
 For example, one side will ask you to acquire the plans for a powerful experimental weapons program, 
 while the other side will ask you to assassinate the scientist in charge of the project to slow 
 the program's development. You can be consistent in your decision-making and single-mindedly follow 
 your gut instincts, or you can attempt to play the sides against each other. Or you can just follow 
 your whim, thus reserving the right to double-cross those who would probably just as soon do the 
 same to you. In addition to the main objectives, numerous less important side quests tend to be 
 available, such as a number of missions that let you arbitrarily pick sides in an apparent corporate 
 struggle between two monopolistic coffee corporations, each reminiscent of a certain real-world 
 coffee corporation. These and all your missions are clearly and concisely tracked in a logbook, 
 and an onscreen compass and lots of signage throughout the game's environments should collectively 
 keep you from getting lost or stuck.  

          Alex D. (the game's main character) can either be male or female -- depending on what you 
 decide -- so get used to making the tough calls in Invisible War.     

  There really is no clear sense of right or wrong in this game, which is interesting -- though odd -- and 
 not always conducive to a satisfying experience. It's great that you're free to choose whether 
 to side with one creepy organization or another and that you can be just about as fickle as you 
 want with every step of the way. Everyone wants your help, so they're willing to keep giving you 
 second chances if you stab them in the back. Since you'll probably be hard-pressed to actually 
 appreciate the motivations of any of the characters who ask you to do things in this game, you 
 won't usually care exactly what happens, or to whom, as a result of your actions. The characters 
 themselves aren't well developed, and the game's artificial intelligence is terrible -- if not missing. 
 For instance, you can usually blatantly steal things from off of characters' desks, right in front 
 of them, without any consequence, and you can brandish your submachine guns and sniper rifles in 
 public without anyone batting an eyelash. These types of things conspire to make the characters 
 in the game seem lifeless and unconvincing, thus undermining any dramatic impact.  

  Just as you'll constantly have a choice about whom to side with, so will you have different options 
 available as you attempt to go about specific objectives. The main options involve force and stealth. 
 In practice, you'll probably rely on a combination of these two elements. The game's manual asserts 
 that "deadly force is always a choice, not a requirement" in the game, which means that it's theoretically 
 possible to go through Invisible War without killing anybody. But that's like saying it's theoretically 
 possible to finish the game in one sitting without ever saving your progress. Yes, you could do 
 it if you really tried, but there's no reward for all that hardship, save for whatever personal 
 satisfaction you'd gain from the accomplishment. In practice, you'll probably find yourself following 
 a fairly obvious path of least resistance through Deus Ex: Invisible War.     

  The fact is, much like in the original Deus Ex, the stealth elements aren't well implemented in 
 Invisible War. There's no onscreen indicator that lets you know whether or not you're hidden from 
 your enemies' sight, so attempting to sneak past a bunch of guards can become a slow and tedious 
 process -- especially since the obvious, easier alternative is to simply take them out. You'll pretty 
 much always be working alone in Invisible War, but the enemy odds are never stacked too high against 
 you, and the enemies themselves simply aren't very dangerous, due mostly to the poor AI.  

          Much like its predecessor, neither the stealth nor the action portions of Invisible War 
 are particularly satisfying, in and of themselves.     

  At the default difficulty, most of the combat in Invisible War is a breeze -- assuming that you have 
 some prior experience playing first-person action games -- as your enemies will all merely rush right 
 at you like fools, or will hover over the dead bodies of their comrades. It's not long before you 
 can get your hands on a sniper rifle in the game, and you can then upgrade it with a silencer. 
 From then on, you can safely shoot most of your enemies in the head before they can do anything 
 about it. Again, there are some nonlethal combat options, but there's no obvious in-game difference 
 between knocking an enemy out and killing him, and the game doesn't rate you on your performance 
 or anything like that, so there's really no mechanism in place to encourage you to do things the 
 hard way (or to reward you for doing so) .  

  For what it's worth, most all of these criticisms applied to the original game as well. Also, as 
 in the first Deus Ex, Invisible War gives you some options for getting through those aspects of 
 the game in which you aren't interacting with other characters. When faced with a locked door, 
 for example, you'll usually have several different ways to proceed. You may blow it apart with 
 explosives; you may find a keycode in some datapad that's been strewn about somewhere nearby; you 
 may unlock the door by using a "multitool" (essentially a disposable key that can also be used 
 to disable surveillance cameras and defensive turrets) ; or you may look for a way around the door, 
 by typically discovering some nearby ventilation shaft. Actually, much of the game consists of 
 bypassing locked doors or other barriers using these specific methods.  

  That's a good amount of variety, though these are actually the very same options from the original 
 Deus Ex. Invisible War wears the formula a bit thin by the time you finish the game -- which should 
 take just 10 to 15 hours. You might catch yourself feeling a little silly as you bypass one supposedly 
 high-tech, heavily defended compound after another by just crawling through all the conveniently 
 placed, human-sized vent shafts. Optionally, you'll be able to hack into some security terminals 
 to gain access to certain areas so you can disable certain hazards, and more, but the hacking in 
 Invisible War is a bland, skill-free affair that simply involves staring at a terminal for a few 
 moments while a "hack" meter fills up. You'll also learn to observe your environment fairly carefully, 
 as spare multitools, health kits, and other useful items can frequently be found in corners, under 
 things -- in "inconspicuous" locations like trash bins -- and so on.  

  The world of the game ultimately comes off as richly detailed but also rather contrived. You'll 
 constantly be reminded that this is, after all, a game world you're playing around in. It doesn't 
 help that the individual "levels" are all quite small and separated by noticeably long loading 
 times. Additionally, the transitions between different cities and countries are completely nonexistent, 
 apart from these loading times -- there isn't so much as a cutscene that shows you flying to your 
 new destination. All this is actually a shame, since, clearly, there's been enough thought put 
 into the unique science fiction world of Deus Ex, and, clearly, there's enough detail in the scenery 
 to where this could have been a much more immersive gaming experience overall.  

          Genetically enhanced supersoldiers like Alex D. are apparently in high demand. The characters 
 you meet will be all too quick to ask you to do favors for them.     

  The superficial characters and the inconsistency of the game's presentation also diminish some 
 of the game's appeal. On the one hand, the characters of Invisible War realistically move their 
 lips in tune with their speech and deliver their lines of dialogue naturally enough. It's great, 
 too, that all of Alex's dialogue is recorded differently (and delivered equally as well) for the 
 male and female versions of the character, and some of the interactions will even differ slightly 
 depending on Alex's gender. Also, Invisible War features some highly atmospheric, dynamic lighting 
 and shadow effects and some pretty remarkable physics. These technical features are practically 
 flaunted, as you'll often run across fire pits or dangling lights that are casting shadows throughout 
 the nearby scenery, or you'll encounter stacks of crates and such, which can be knocked around, 
 thrown around, and more. The rule of thumb is that you can pick up and throw just about anything 
 that isn't bolted down in Invisible War, and, for a while, you'll have fun doing it.  

  Problem is, the physics are goofier than they are believable, as most of the moveable objects in 
 the game seem to lack any real mass -- as though everything in this grim future was inflatable or 
 made of Styrofoam. Contributing to the thoroughly unconvincing character behavior, characters in 
 Invisible War don't act right even when they're dead. They fall to the ground in lifeless, contorted 
 heaps, which can then be picked up and flung around effortlessly. Other games involving stealth 
 and the ability to pick and move bodies out of sight at least attempt to give the impression that 
 bodies are heavy and unwieldy. Not so in Invisible War, where human bodies can be carried around 
 or flung about as easily as coffee cups and basketballs. Physics are cool and everything, but some 
 actual death animations and more plausible interactions with heavy, unwieldy objects really could 
 have helped here. Also, the realistic lighting and physics take what seems to be a serious toll 
 on the game's frame rate. Don't expect Invisible War to run nearly as smoothly as most other first-person 
 perspective games you've seen lately. Overall, you'll have to work fairly hard to suspend your 
 disbelief while playing this game. For just about every little detail it successfully and impressively 
 pulls off, there's some noticeable blemish that you'll need to try to ignore.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (143 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 7:25 am PT
Review:  I'm of the opinion that the predeccesor to this game 'Deus Ex' is the greatest game of all time 
 on any platform.
  
  So when I first came to play this game I was looking forward to it a great deal.
  
  It starts 
 with some promise, the Deus Ex cyberpunk city landscape and a plot of espionage etc.
  
  It does however do several things wrong. Part of the joy of the initial Deus Ex was that the two 
 factions were not initially revealed in such a 'choose one way or the other' context. They were 
 slowly brought in culminating in one excellent moment aboard a plane when you had to choose what 
 path to take next.
  
  The story is weaker, the characters are weaker, the variety of locations and the excecution of 
 each location is weaker. All round it mimicks the first one but just not as well. 
  
  The first location Seattle is actually one of the best, probably the point at which the game is 
 strongest. There are some nice ideas here and a few others dotted throughout the game.
  
  It still doesn't bring quite the depth and feeling of the previous game though. The combat is still 
 reasonably clunky but decent enough for the game.
  
  It is just far too short, doesn't develop enough, and is missing several key ingrediants from the 
 first one.
  
  Still however a good game, with an decent plot, decent range of locations and situations. Still 
 lets you make certain choices. It still is reasonably immersive.
  
  For someone who is a major fan of the first game though, this one is nothing short of a massive 
 dissapointment.
  
  That should really tell you how good the first game is, I have given this game a 8.5 and yet I 
 am still labelling it as a massive dissapointment.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Ion Storm had come a long way since the terrible Daikatana. While Deus Ex did finally made John 
 Romero's dream of mating RPGs and FPSes come true, and with a rather good story to boot, Deus Ex 
 2, however, was 2 steps in the wrong direction.
  
  Sure, this game was made years back. It's still in my collection, though, if only it is the sequel 
 to one of the best games that I have played. But, it is a reminder of one of my mistaken choices, 
 and so it is under the pile of "poor games I regretted" in the closet rather than in one of my 
 shelves. And to blow off this load of remorse, I am writing this review.
  
  Deus Ex's endings pretty much ensured that the player won't be playing J. C. Denton again in the 
 sequel. That is alright, but apparently the sequel chose an odd choice of continuity similar to 
 the one made for the Space Odyssey movies. It totally revamped the global world order and essentially 
 pitted Luddites against technologists, and ditched the ideological warfare theme that made the 
 first game so interesting to me.
  
  The locales are much better and more varied now, but animation is still as bad as ever. It does 
 not matter whether the player chooses a female or male character, for characters of the same gender 
 has the same of animation and the idle animations for both gender is very much the same awkward 
 hands out-of-the-side pose. Certainly not very good for a game made in 2003.
  
  Perhaps the greatest disappointment of this game is the removal of much of the RPG elements of 
 the first game. A replacement, in the form of customizable nano-augmentations, is used instead 
 (whereas the first game made nano-augmentations permanent irreversible choices) . The inclusion 
 of universal ammo (however the heck that works) is the most obvious piece of evidence that Ion 
 Storm has dumbed down the game into a pseudo-RPG FPS.
  
  Sadly, neither the weapons and nano-augmentations are truly effective in battle, making this game 
 terrible at being either an RPG or an FPS. Yours truly actually slogged through the game by exploiting 
 the terrible AI and tons of saving/loading. 
  
  Perhaps the tragedy of this game can be made lighter in a funnier way by watching a certain Zero 
 Punctuation parody of Deus Ex's opening soundtrack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Hard core gamers are hard to please when it comes to sequels. They tend to be overzealous in terms 
 of design choices, expecting new games in a franchise to follow the basis laid down by its predecessors. 
 When games try and break the mold, forums get packed with angry hard-cores that slam mouth every 
 new design choice, with little, if any, reason for their complaints (think FFXII or Oblivion) . 
 Curiously enough, these are the same that spend most of their time ranting about EA's repetitive 
 publishing politics. The result of this conservatism is well known, franchises tend to follow a 
 pretty strict formula: avoid innovation. Look around, how many game series keep reinventing themselves, 
 title after title? Surely not "Final Fantasy", "Resident Evil", "Tomb Raider", "Metroid Prime", 
 "Halo", and so on; though these are hugely successful games, they tend to be filled with uninspired 
 concepts. That is why whenever a sequel tends to push the envelope, it deserves praise for its 
 courage and creativity. And if the game is better, then great if it's not, at least something 
 different was tried. "Deus Ex: Invisible War" is such a game: 3 years after the success of the 
 first "Deus Ex", Warren Spector created a new game that, while maintaining the spirit of its predecessor, 
 didn't stick with its foundations. Needless to say, he got little praise from his undying fans.
 
  
  The first thing that undermines the first game's concept is the game genre. Though "Deus Ex" used 
 the first person perspective, at its core, was a pure RPG. Now, "Invisible War" embraces the FPS 
 mechanics, even if it still has RPG elements beneath it all. Action requires dodging and aiming, 
 and accuracy cannot be evolved; in fact, the only thing that can be evolved in the game, are the 
 weapons and biomods (in similar fashion to "Deus Ex") . Still on the RPG side of the game, there 
 are still side-quests to be performed, people to talk to, and an engrossing storyline to follow 
 through. Still, it is important to ask: why the change of genre? Personally, I think Warren Spector 
 understood that classical RPG's where losing appeal, and more action oriented games where on the 
 rise. More so, in the three years gap between these games, game design had been somewhat streamlined 
 to the needs of the ever crescent casual players. And though this is arguable, I believe it was 
 the right choice; "Invisible War" feels modern, user friendly, dynamic, fun and easy to play, even 
 though it is less challenging and less engrossing than its RPG predecessor.
  
  Thanks to smaller, more cohesive levels, level design also comes out as more linear and intuitive 
 (thank God) ; unfortunately, this also means the game's environments are more claustrophobic, which 
 stops the world from feeling alive and organic. Smaller levels also allow players to easily choose 
 a path that is more suitable to their gaming style, avoiding the needless wandering that occurred 
 in the first "Deus Ex", whenever the player had to search for a specific venting crawl or door 
 access. All of these elements contribute to the more action oriented nature of the game, and are 
 well intertwined with the FPS mechanics of the game.
  
  On the narrative side, the second "Deus Ex" also feels like a mixed bag. Dialogs are much more 
 consistent in terms of writing quality, giving a more mature tone to the plot and its thought-provoking 
 philosophical ramblings. However, this just isn't enough to save the story that, besides remaining 
 overly ambitious and somewhat ridiculous, is filled with plot wholes and disastrous, monotonic 
 voice-acting. Choices in terms of narrative have again been neglected, and even though this time 
 around there are a few more possibilities in terms of story, it is difficult to find them encouraging, 
 since their consequences are not, in any way, experienced by the player. You could say that you 
 can "imagine" the consequences, but even that pleasure is denied by the game, since characters 
 and situations are so boring and one-sided that your brain will feel too numb and sleepy to give 
 a damn about consequences. This is even truer, since the game is slightly more polarized in terms 
 of "right" and "wrong", making it less morally provoking than its prequel.
  
  The art behind the game is basically identical to its forefather, featuring dark moody backgrounds 
 and colors, now adorned with some nice dynamic lighting effects that add a welcome contrast to 
 the sets. "Blade Runner-like" synthesizer based music also makes a comeback, providing the appropriate 
 sci-fi ambiance to the game. It is a shame that so little progress was made in this area, but even 
 so, the game manages to be above average in this regard.
  
  But it all comes down to: is it better than "Deus Ex"? The answer is no. It isn't better, but it 
 can hardly be described as worse. It's like a different approach to the same motif. Even so, I 
 remain true to my convictions: Warren Spector tried to create a new formula, instead of developing 
 a cash-making, easy-to-produce sequel; in some aspects he succeeded, in others he did not. Like 
 the first "Deus Ex", "Invisible War" is as promising as it is disappointing, a realm of possibilities 
 that are never fully developed and that would only be fully fledged in future games But, if you 
 think about it, that's what sets Warren Spector's games apart from the rest: they are a visionary 
 testament of what is to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  I have started replaying DE: IW for the second time out of curiosity "perhaps it ages well with 
 a little time?", I thought, and I am bored to tears allready. The first time I played through it 
 was some years ago and I completed it, tried out all the endings possible and felt like it was 
 a boring unatmospheric game then, just as I do today.
  
  The most important thing to do when making a game is to have something pretty interesting to do 
 right at the start to get your player base salavating for more. THis game falls flat on its face. 
 Sure the Tartus academy gets invaded and then you have the apartment blocks to deal with but it 
 does not feel like Deus Ex at all. It is brightly lit for one and 2, there is not much in the way 
 of alternate routes, hidden stuff to find out and even more importantly, there is nothing to learn 
 about yourself.
  
  You are told to shut up and just follow orders, and even the slight sense of "I can rebel here", 
 is crushed by the fact there is only 1 way out of the Academy, and that goes through the biomod 
 area anyway so why bother? Even the facts about your family being killed is so flatly delivered 
 and has no substance, leaves me not caring for my own characer.... what sort of game is that?
  
  As you progress you feel like the world is empty and character-less with nobody you really 
 give a damn about, anybody you are meant to remotely care for is so wooden it has no impact on 
 you. The levels are full of boring locations, isolated enviroments with a 'VIRTUAL TEST ROOM' feel 
 to it, the weapons have no kick and feel like Start Trek tasers, extremely limited character customisation 
 options throught the whole game..... it's actually very very bad and I won't play it anymore, i 
 Just depressed myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Alright, let's try and get this over with as softly and smoothly as possible. Although I regret 
 having to say it, when you compare Invisible War to the brilliant original of Deus Ex, the follow-up 
 frankly falls painfully short of the inevitably large expectations which had been previously built 
 up. A combination of small environments, a clunky inventory, lacklustre characters and storyline 
 unite to present an experience which feels both superficial and stripped down. Now, some of the 
 blame can partially be attributed to the fact that the game was developed simultaneously for the 
 Xbox (original) , and the hardware limitations and various other facets of that console rubbed off 
 on the final version. However, it also must be said that the game just seems to suffer from a lack 
 of originality, recycling much of the same plot material and game interactions that had previously 
 been executed with good effect in the original. However, this is not to say that the game is a 
 complete right-off, since it remains to be a totally decent game to play through a couple of times, 
 and is probably worthy of some of your attention. The pain comes when you realise how much better 
 it could have been.
  
  Let me begin with the story. On its own, it is a perfectly solid and gripping narrative with the 
 usual few twists and turns and the same mega-conspiracies hell-bent on world domination, along 
 with the same well meaning individuals wanting to forge a better society. Set 20 years after the 
 events of Deus Ex, the world has partially recovered from The Collapse, one of the possible endings 
 of the original game where the global communications network was disabled, throwing much of the 
 world into chaos. J. C. Denton has also merged with the Helios AI (another ending from the original) 
 but has not been seen since. You play as Alex D, a man/woman (it is your choice as to which) trainee 
 at the Tarsus Academy, which is kind of like an elite prep school for the development of a new 
 era of bio-modified individuals. During the introduction, a nanite-infused bomb destroys the entire 
 city of Chicago, leading you to relocate to Seattle. Most of the story involves juggling your alliances 
 between various groups such as the WTO (never specifically called the World Trade Organisation, 
 but this is taken as red) , the Knights Templar and the mysterious ApostleCorp, attempting to figure 
 out which is the best course of action to take and gradually unravelling the truth behind the mystery, 
 behind the lies. As before, any action taken will have a knock-on effect with your dealings with 
 the various organisations, and will eventually affect the overall outcome of the game.
  
  Invisible War tries to tread the rather rickety path of moral ambiguity to a greater degree than 
 its predecessor. No specific group in the game can be fully designated as 'the bad guys' or 'the 
 good guys', since these alliances will waiver and alter depending on your choices and actions taken. 
 Should I follow authority, my head or my heart? Whilst this lack of a basic morality spectrum is 
 very interesting philosophically speaking, it can leave the player feeling slightly disorientated 
 and constantly unsure which path to take. However, in terms of the game's plot trying to make use 
 of player free will, this makes perfect sense, and does lead to an interesting finale. Character 
 voices also make a marked improvement, with people actually displaying emotions such as fear and 
 anger, and even the occasional humorous exchange.
  
  Now we must come to the points which mark the slight collapse of the game, firstly the environments. 
 Everyone should remember that in Deus Ex, maps were either pretty spacious or well designed, such 
 as the entire exterior of Liberty Island (including the Statue of Liberty) . Loading screens were 
 also extremely brief, taking a maximum of five seconds to translate almost seamlessly from one 
 locale to another, and normally in relative continuity. Sadly Invisible War does not follow this 
 setup. All of the environments here are small and normally rather uncluttered of objects, each 
 requiring a physical door to be opened in order to move to a new location. There is also a lengthy 
 loading screen for each transition, which basically features a complete removal from the gaming 
 experience every time. Graphically, the environments and characters are far superior to the original, 
 with some good physics and mainly realistic facial expressions and lip syncing.
  
  Secondly, the main character of Alex D is a more or less 2-dimensional creation. J. C. Denton had 
 some kind of (albeit minimal) characterisation in the original, but Alex is a blank canvas who 
 is basically a pawn for those who control him. You can make him either the zenith of evil, or a 
 saintly saviour, given your fancy. Again, whilst this is supposed to create an atmosphere where 
 you feel as if you actually are Alex D, it doesn't manage to accurately convey that feeling. Further, 
 the inventory system has simplified far too much. All the way through the game, there is a strange, 
 semi bio-optical overlay which somewhat impairs your field of vision. Your primary items are displayed 
 on this overlay, and you can go into your inventory to access the secondary ones. Another weird 
 idea is that of universal ammunition. Every weapon in the game uses the same plasma type of ammunition, 
 from pistols to rocket launchers. Apart from being highly unrealistic, the universal ammunition 
 also depletes itself at different rates, depending on what weapon you are using. This equally makes 
 no sense whatsoever.
  
  In conclusion, all of these niggling little points simply combine to create a mediocre game. Invisible 
 War is a victim of its predecessor's success. It's just too clunky, stripped down and lacklustre 
 to exhibit any of the amazing atmosphere, tension and mainly style that the original Deus Ex had, 
 and that game managed to do it with graphics that looked half as good as those of Invisible War. 
 Let's hope that the now confirmed Deus Ex 3 returns solidly to the grassroots, and more or less 
 forgets about this poor sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnsch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  The first Deus Ex was a fantastic game that sucked me in and warped my brain cells with "Game Addiction" 
 disease. Game 2 however, while still great, did not have the same Game Drug effect. My expectations 
 may have been altered by the first game and then the usual fanboy hype everywhere about the second 
 coming. Possibly earning it a slightly lower score from over expectation. But its always great 
 fun to install electronic parts into your body and then go stomp ass in an RPG shooter style game. 
 We need more games like this. Well worth playing, Ive played it a couple times and completely enjoyed 
 it every time and I am looking forward to number 3. If you don't have it, go to Amazon and buy 
 it second hand for a couple bucks and enjoy a great game, but remember, this is now an older game 
 and the graphics then can not keep up with today's graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  I am not kidding play the first deux ex the story is amazing in terms of conspiracy this one story 
 is a joke is just like putting a cheap actor in sequel movie to undo the first movie's main actor 
 job and mostly do nothing more than screw around, in a failure to capture the magic of the first 
 game i do understand that you haven played the first but i can easily say that this game is a joke 
 a rip off with 0% hate it a joke am not say IT SUCKS am saying is just like the designers are kidding 
 with us, eg we waited all those years for this duh that short are you kidding me so take me seriously 
 and read to find out why the previous is far better!
  
  First of all the game crashes in new machines so save often, now in case you dont know deus ex 
 is a game that takes place in the future with fps rpg mixture dualogies and missions also the ability 
 to make choices on diifirent way to play to choose factions or a different outcome BUT in the previous 
 game you had skills weapons medic locpick electronics and you collect exp to use them to upgrade 
 in invisible war there no skillpoints so no weapon innacuracy no upgrade you just shoot and enemis 
 shoot you few shots and you are dead so open the inventory pause the game and heal yourself unlike 
 deus ex 1 shot to the head is not lethal and weaponss dont look cool or use different ammo types 
 like armor perceing or grenades ALL THE WEAPONS USE THE SAME AMMO, so you got a pistol a sniper 
 rilfe a rocket laucher an smg a shotgun ALL USE THE SAME AMMO, what kinda stupid crap is this in 
 a game that relies on freedom? in the previous you using diffirent weapons but not to save ammo 
 in deus ex you use staff like flashbang grenades or emp grenades to disable robots to save ammo 
 because the amount of ammo you spent is too high and you get too low so the game doesnt relly in 
 combat, unlike deus ex the upgrades you use dont upgrade like ammo capacity or range or accuracy 
 but do stuff like silencer glass distabilazier and ammo scavanger or emp convertor!
  
  Mainly deus ex is a game that rellies in dialogues joining factions abd looking for people the 
 story of the game however is a joke compared to deus ex not a recommended game for story, so you 
 just go form small level to small level and talk to people to get missions, in any case levels 
 are small simple and take ages to load at least in 2003 just imagine the time they need!
  
  deus ex allows you to do stuff like disabling an assault bot with a emp grenade or using one of 
 your hacking augmentations to use it against them or destroy it, or ou can choose a different infiltration 
 method like a shaft or to climb or avoid the camera sneak behind a guard and take him out with 
 a silenced weapon or a electric prod, but compared to the bigger and better levels of deux ex, 
 eg in deus ex you could choose to either:
  
  1blow up a door
  2lockpick
  3find the key
  4use the keypad if you know the code
  5hack the keypad with a multitool
  6find 
 a computer and use the login and password to open the door
  7 hack the computer and do the same or use the defense turrets against your enemies
  
  and 
 so on it goes use shield power or turn insvisble form enemies or off robot and camera radar undettected 
 or healing and outher stuff!
  
  BUT in invisible war you dont have explosive grenades that you can s stick in the walss as mines 
 or demo charges you dont have to use the lockpick or multitool there is only one multitool it opens 
 doors and hacks at the same time, also no skill levels that change the amount of mutlitools you 
 use or the effectivenes of you weapons its just crap, and unlike deus ex 1 YOU CANT TYPE AND SAVE 
 YOUR ONE MESSAGES KEYPAD NUMBERS DONT GET SAVED IN LOGS SCREEN AND YOU CANT TAKE YOU ON NOTES, 
 thats right in deus ex if you didnt know the password to a pc or the number for a keypad you coult 
 try typing but invisible war, your only option on an atm is to hack it not type login and password 
 and take the amount of money you want form that account, so either you know the code and press 
 use on it or hack it, much less freedom than the original also you jsut move in cities but the 
 levels an music are not that good as deus ex!
  
  SO deus ex has: better story better levels better music much longer more options and choices to 
 make more freedom more stuff to do!
  
  Finnaly if you liked this one stop right know what you do and get deus ex i mean eight now its 
 10000 times better propably the best fps ever, this one is a joke compared to the original! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philg2518
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  One of DE: IW's redeeming features, is it's story. Decently developed characters, some plot twists, 
 and multiple factions makes for an interesting ride. One of the things I most enjoyed was the opposing 
 objectives, that is you are given 2 objectives from 2 differing factions that directly contradict 
 each other, allowing you to only fulfill one. In some cases you may have 3 objectives and can only 
 choose one, so the game in a sense, can be different each time you play it. In addition to the 
 opposing objectives, there is also multiple endings, for memory 4 in total, one for each faction. 
 This adds depth to the game and lets you see the 'what if's and doesn't leave you thinking 'what 
 if that faction won, I wonder what the ending would've been like?'
  
  The graphics in DE: IW are average, nothing special, but not completely rubbish either. The combat 
 system is similar, its not useless, but not revolutionary either, it merely functions. The weapons 
 are varied, some of them are great, such as the sniper, and the universal ammo is a great idea 
 in my opinion, however other weapons such as the energy sword (which is useless) and the rocket 
 launcher (which is irritating) seem to be tacked on to add 'variety'.
  
  If you can stand the somewhat tacky gameplay in DE: IW, there is a great entertaining story to be 
 found underneath it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_DK
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I just completed this game again after years pause.
  
  And I must admit it still delivers, even if it is a Deus Ex "light". Despite having completed it 
 multiple times before I still stumbled upon new stuff. Or maybe I just couldn't remember. I cannot 
 remember a game that makes you feel so ambivalent about the choices you make. The lack of black 
 and white is everywhere. I like it, but it requires a certain suspension of disbelief to pull it 
 off. I think this very much depends on the player.
  
  For starters, you will have to accept the tone and style of the game. It's a low-key game with 
 not too bright colours or loud noises. The voice-acting is no different. For me it works really 
 well but not everybody likes it.
  
  The game demands constant prioritization but offers a variety of gameplay styles in return. You 
 can be the Rambo or the thief. Or both. It's really up to which kind of inventory you choose or 
 which bimods (skills) . Usually, you will have to complement you lacking skills in certain areas 
 with specialized equipment. For example, if you don't have the ability to hack into security computers 
 you might wanna keep some EMP grenades for alarm triggers and such. Weapons choice and weapon upgrades 
 add significantly to the array of combinations.
  In this respect, the game offers multiple solutions to every problem and it works really well. 
 Constrains on ammo and equipment means that even an all-out Rambo probably will need to sneak on 
 occasion and vice versa for the thief but it adds to the challenge to decide when to do what. 
 
  
  It can be argued that some setups are easier to "win" with than others. My last run as a sneaky 
 cloaking person was not very difficult (on hard level) but it was a different experience than my 
 usual more belligerent setups. Thing is, if you just play to win, this game is probably not for 
 you. It is all about the journey. 
  
  The level design is very compact. It does mean that you don't have to travel that far when you 
 run errands but I cannot help always feeling trapped inside a dollhouse. The character modelling 
 and physics engine does not help here either, nor does the occasional problematic controls. The 
 addition of a "realistic" physics was not well implemented. It's particular annoying when you kill/stun 
 somebody and have to play a min-game of removing a rag-doll in order to get the loot. Or when you 
 enter a coffee shop, you leave a debris field behind because you strafed a chair that, in return, 
 flew across the room resulting in a cascade of events leaving the shop redecorated. It gives the 
 game a comical feel that is not needed. It went completely Austin Powers doing my last run. I was 
 sneaking around guards, silently and cloaked, trying to enter and air duct when I just barely strafed 
 a heavy barrel resulting in the usual domino effect on nearby heavy crates. Off course, the guards 
 were blissfully ignorant about the flying heavy equipment around the air channel. 
  
  Since DE 2 was about focusing on the strengths of the DE1, I can only wonder why developers decided 
 to include this physics feature. Perhaps they wanted to be on par with the contemporary shooters. 
 I think it was the marketing people that insisted. 
  
  The "shooter" element itself ok. The AI is predictable and the confined spaces make movement limited. 
 Tactics are reduced to weapon and biomod selections. It fits within the game though and I did get 
 my shooting fix. Hardcore FPS-gamers will probably not be challenged. 
  
  Story-wise is where the game shines the most. Even if you want to be the good guy it's a challenge 
 to figure out what that really means. I often went with the lesser of evils but at some point you 
 will have to make some pretty tough choices. The final endings can be very ambivalent. I remember 
 thinking "what have I done" in my first go. 
  
  Compared to the original the game I can somewhat understand a lot of the negative response from 
 fans. When you omit a lot of certain features and decide to make a more focused game you are bound 
 to step on someone's toes. This focus resulted in a downgrade of some of the better points of DE1. 
 The very compact level design and the much reduced extra material is my biggest issue. I personally 
 enjoyed the abandoned submerged base section of the original very much and it had a cool story 
 to it which you could pick up here and there. The equivalent abandoned base in DE2 pales in comparison 
 although it's still good. Sequels should play on their successor's strong points but in this case 
 it would appear that the developers were severely constrained even on their focus points. Clearly, 
 the consoles were not ready to share the PC version so directly. 
  
  I find myself tempted to revisit the original but I resists. I won't because I don't have the time 
 but it's a good feeling when you end a game longing for more. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wazzup987
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this game let me down. this game did not live up to it predecessor; 
 its story line feels woefully sophomoric, compared to Deus Ex 1. But so does the game play now 
 for those of you who played the first one no that there was an extensive menu system (which at 
 times was annoying) but allowed for a certain level of intricacy but the second one feels striped 
 of that intricacy. the level design was also quiet intricate in the first (I've play through the 
 first one countless times and i still find new secret areas or compartment) , but in the second 
 one there where was none of this intricacy (the most "intricate" thing i saw in that game was hiding 
 item of use in dumpsters) .
  
  Now that may sound bad but I'm just a fan of the series blowing of steam of the failure to improve 
 the first one rather than strip it bare. That aside it still a good game compared to crap thats 
 out it just disappointed me and it's $20 right now so its a good buy for a bit of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobster12
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  ok i played the first deus ex game and completed it (w00t) then i found out about a sequel. i had 
 to install it on my friends computer because it did not work on my crappy laptop lol. i played 
 it and it was a bit of a letdown for me. as most of us have said: "this game takes away everything 
 that made the first game great" thats true. on this game you can only carry about 5 weapons or 
 items and on the first one you can make space and carry up to 15 items. the health and bio bar 
 is disapointing, im glad these ones arnt on the first game else id probably still be trying to 
 complete the game without being killed in about 3 hits.
  
  the blood it BAD, the first game had better blood than this! in fact the only time you see blood 
 is when you get shot at :/ 
  
  the graphics are nice ill add a 5 on my rating for graphics.
  
  overall i think this is a nice 
 game but could have been better. eidos and ion storm, next plz dont RUSH IT! deus ex 3 had better 
 be good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasp94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I love the Deus Ex series. You can get so immersed in the game that next thing you know it's 3AM 
 and your going to be sleeping under your desk at work tomorrow.
  
  This game is 5 years old now, but it can still compete with modern games. The graphics are still 
 great, just like the original Deus Ex was 8 years ago. On max settings it can still challenge my 
 rig, even today. The openness of the environment and the freedom you have in this game is the big 
 attraction for me. You don't have to follow a developers trail of bread crumbs all the way to the 
 finish, like you do in most game. 
  
  The game play is awesome, you can interact with just about anything and anyone in this game. You 
 core missions will center around 4 possible endings to the game. You can choose the fate of the 
 world. Besides the core missions, you also have smaller objectives. I personally love these side 
 missions, they make the game even more immersing. Though you can simply blow by them without doing 
 anything, I would recommend to take your time and do everything possible at each location before 
 moving on in the game. And for you work on the side objectives, you will almost always be rewarded 
 with weapons, mods, or other useful things.
  
  One let down in Invisible War is that the Bio Mods are basically useless. You can play the whole 
 game without them. The only ones that really help you at all are the black market mods. So don't 
 go wasting your mod slots with the first thing you find. 
  
  If you have not played either of the Deus Ex games before, then take the time to download the Demo 
 now, I bet you will be headed out later tonight to buy the full game. I absolutely can't wait for 
 the next installment of this series, I hope that they combine the best of both games. But for now, 
 I'm going to delete my saved games and start the game over again... it's just that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex Invisible War is the sequel to Deus Ex, one of the greatest PC games of all time. While 
 it is a bit disappointing this is only because the original game was so good.
  
  This time you play as a different character several years after the first game. You play as Alex 
 D, who can be male or female as you are given the choice at the start of the game and what colour 
 skin they are. The game plays a lot different to the first one. This time your main enemies area 
 religious group called the Order Seekers.
  
  The actual gameplay is a lot more simple than the first game, while there are lots of weapons and 
 items to pick up and use, there are less upgrades. However, you do have these things called biomods 
 where you can upgrade weaknesses' like say, you can make yourself stronger against biohazards, 
 you can make yourself silent when you move etc. The game now has universal ammo so all your weapons 
 use the same ammo which is good for some, annoying for others. It's quite clear they made this 
 game more simple because of the Xbox's controls.
  
  The graphics can be great depending on how powerful your PC is. In order to run the game well on 
 higher settings your gonna have to surpass the recommended settings by a fair bit. On my old PC 
 specs which was a 2.6GHz processor, GeForce FX5500 card and 512MB RAM I could only run it well 
 at 800x600 resolution and mostly medium, some high video settings even though this passed the recommended 
 specs. Now I run the game maxed out with 3.4GHz processor, GeForce 7300GT and 1GB RAM. If you have 
 specs similar, slightly lower or higher than these you'll be fine running the game on highest. 
 The environments are generally dark indoors or urban areas with good textures spiced up with some 
 excellent dynamic lighting effects. There's also a decent physics engine so everything moves around 
 if touched, knocked etc. 
  
  The sound is good too. There's some decent voice-acting here. The effects and everything are fine 
 too. The game is pretty long for all the main missions but remember, you can do it all at your 
 own pace. There are lots of side missions too.
  
  If the first Deus Ex hadnt been released this would've got a higher mark. But still, this is a 
 great game that recommend to anyone who likes FPS/RPG games or any Xbox gamer.
  
  Pros:
  +Good FPS/RPG elements
  +Decent voice acting
  +Great graphics and lighting
  +Lots to do
 
  
  Cons:
  -Universal ammo- really annoying
  -Doesnt feel anywhere as good as the original
  -No multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jernas
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  We all remember the first Deus Ex which is still one of the best rpg/fps games with probably the 
 best storyline out there. In 2003 the sequel was made and hopes were high. We all expected a superb 
 storyline with a lot of player's choices. And what did we get? 
  
  The story in invisible war is once again great, I mean there are fractions of the post Collapse 
 (the Collapse has happened after the end of the first game) world and many characters from the 
 first game. In the term of looks and physics, this game uses modified UE2 (first game used UE1) 
 and Havoc2.0 physics so the looks of the game and physics are greatly improved. Combat system remains 
 allmost the same, which means great news and this one is aswell very addictive. You just have to 
 play it further to see, what is going to happen.
  
  On the other hand this game falls behind becouse it is a direct Xbox port, which means a lot of 
 things have been simplified. So there are no skills anymore, only basic biomoding, all the weapons 
 use the same kind of ammo, goals menu is now very basic (codes are now automaticaly inserted where 
 you need them, you can only see one goal per page...) , also is inventory. Also becouse it's a port, 
 Invisible war is a lot easier and a lot shorter than the original.
  
  So, the game is worth to try if you are a fan of the original. And once again expect to look 10 
 minutes into a map wondering where would be the best entrance to fall into the building. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex: Invisible War. A sequel to one of the best games ever made. Does it live up to the original? 
 Not a chance.
  
  Gameplay: 3.5/10
  - Deus Ex, remembered for it's genius gameplay. Deus Ex: Invisible War, remembered for it's dumbing 
 down for the mainstream. It seems like they made a list about everything that was good in the original 
 DX... and removed all those things from IW. If you have never played the original Deus Ex before, 
 you might actually like this game, since for an average shooter, it's quite decent. But if you 
 have played the original Deus Ex and though it was good, this game makes you want to kill Ion Storm. 
 (well, they are already dead though) I am sorry if this offends you console players, but one of 
 the main reasons that DX: IW turned out to be so ****, is because it was aimed for console audience. 
 You see, (I'm generalizing, sue me) most console players don't have high enough IQ and patience 
 to think about stuff like: Lockpicks *AND* multitools, skill points, player choice, freedom, DIFFERENT 
 AMMO FOR DIFFERENT WEAPONS. Seriously, what was Ion Storm thinking when they made those decisions?!
 
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 3/10
  - As if. Even Call Of Duty 4 has more atmosphere than this piece of junk. Well, not really, but 
 you get the point.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  - You know, graphics are the only half-decent thing about this game. But they are ruined by insanely 
 small zones, you constantly keep changing from zone to another and that means: loading pauses!
 
  
  Sound: 5/10
  - Nothing really wrong. Just what you'd except from your average console shooter. But when compared 
 to the original, they suck. They truly do.
  
  Physics: 6/10
  - Ragdoll. The most overused thing ever. It still works quite well in this game, and as long as 
 you don't except top of the line physics, they actually do their job decently.
  
  Replay value: 6.5/10
  - Well... You actually do have a few choices, and you can say different 
 stuff in conversations eg. So this has more replay value than your average shooter.
  
  Value for money: 3/10
  - The game sometimes makes me want to eat my head due to the headache 
 I get from seeing something once so brilliant turned into something so bad as this. However, if 
 you like FPS's, you might wanna check this one out. Hey, at least it's more "accessible" than Deus 
 Ex 1. You don't want to pay 50  for this though, luckily it is cheap these days.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 4/10
  - It is pain in the ass to get this game to run. It has 
 an awful copy protection system so that it refuses to run if you have any kind of cd/dvd emulation 
 *installed*, not even running. Still, you are lucky to get this game to run without crashes. Modern 
 PC's can run this all maxed out easily, I wouldn't recommend trying Vista though, since this game 
 is so bugged, it's bound to have problems.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Hell no. It 
 will be remembered as a perfect example of what happens if developers try to make game "more accessible 
 for wider audience".
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - People who like Halo, Bioshock, Call Of Duty or Doom 3. Basically any FPS fan that hasn't played 
 original Deus Ex.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 3.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikhan_z
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex: Invisible War still obtains some of the elements that were in the original but some elements, 
 which make the first game an epic did not make it into Invisible War.
  
  The game is set 20 years after the first game, where you play as a nano-augmented agent, Alex Denton. 
 A terrorist attack hits the city of Chicago and Alex got evacuated to Seattle. Another attack occurs 
 and this is where the game starts off. 
  
  Throughout the game, you learn that things are not what it seems and a conspiracy is beginning 
 to unfold and later learn that it has something to do with JC Denton and the events of the global 
 collapse 20 years ago. Alex sets off to find out to uncover these secrets and different organizations 
 give different objectives, completing one and not the other objective, shapes the story within 
 the game.
  
  Firstly the graphics are beautiful, Ion Storm did a good job modifying the Unreal 2 engine to bring 
 the game to life, especially the light sources used in the game to create real time dynamic shadows.
 
  
  The sound is a good change from the sequel, no more techno from the first game and it sets the 
 tension of the game. 
  
  The gameplay was totally dubbed down from the original, the developers decided to take out the 
 skills options out, so it loses it RPG elements and a part, to something that made Deus Ex the 
 game it was intended in the first place. It takes a biomod to hack computers and ATMS.
  
  Also the inventory slots been shorten, you can only take up to 12 items at a time. It does however 
 work, since the levels are much shorter. The ammo works on all weapons, this is called universal 
 ammo, this can be a pain, because if one weapon runs out of ammo, all the weapons don't have ammo.
 
  
  Objectives are given to you from two different organizations but conflicting towards the same goal. 
 The player can choose which goal to complete and this changes the direction of the game. This gives 
 the game an open ended gameplay and has been put together nicely. 
  
  Considering the player is a nano-agent, you can collect biomod canisters, which you can install 
 and update augmentations. Augmentations give the player special abilities throughout the game and 
 it does affect the gameplay in a huge way. One example is a cloaking augmentation, which the player 
 can use to bypass many enemies to get to the next location without being caught.
  
  The game was extremely short compared to the original, the first time playing the original took 
 around 15 hours to complete first time around, meanwhile this game took around 8 hours. The levels 
 were also short, mainly because of the real time lighting in the game. 
  
  Considering many of the options were taken out or were dubbed down, this decreases the original 
 Deus Ex experience however, it is still the same Deus Ex experience with the open ended gameplay 
 and story, this game is worth play and does offer a different approach in this game. 
  
  The game has 4 different endings so it's worth playing the game again so see the different endings. 
 If you want a game with a good story, pick this game up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  I am writing this review years after I played the game, but I guess that even though I cannot remember 
 all the game details, the games that stand that test of time are the ones that you look back to 
 and think 'WOW, I want to play that game' or 'I wish I had enjoyed it more while playing it'. 
 
  
  Well, I've thought those thoughts many times and I absolutely love this game. It is a masterpiece 
 and there really is not too much more I can say as I don't remember the details but I remember 
 the game and that's what makes it legendary.
  
  There will be only a few games that deserve a 10 from me and this is one of them.
  
  I especially 
 like the fact that you can choose your path in the game and considering it is an older game the 
 graphics are still pretty good and the game development (the idea) is absolutely immaculate.
  
  I remember the ending of the game, which you can choose, and I know which one I chose. However, 
 it is interesting to see how now when I think about it, I think that maybe a different choice has 
 to be made for this planet that we call Earth and call it out home but treat is as a dumpster.
 
  
  I believed world was ok as it was and shouldn; t be changed but now everyone can see that if we 
 don't change, disaster is inevitable and we won't have our world to live on anymore. 
  
  I believe in reincarnation now, and I believe it can bring peace to the world (as much as humanly 
 possible) and it is probably the only path that can help us save the world that we live in. I like 
 our planet and would like to return it many more times to come, so if not for our grandchildren, 
 let's make the world a better place for ourselves. From that perspective, I would have probably 
 chosen a different ending to the Deus Ex: Invisible War game and would have chosen for us all to 
 be able understand each other perfectly, even at the cost of completely losing privacy, for what 
 is privacy if we understand the essence of each other and don; t judge each other, but simply understand...
 
  
  Have a good one folks.
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing 
 if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex Invisible War is an amazing sequel to one of the best games of all time- Deus Ex.
  
  The Environment is so unique and different, that it provides the ultimate futuristic sci-fi 
 feel. It actually provides a different feel than the first, which I really liked.
  
  Is it better than it's prequel? I really can't judge which either is better or not. Both have awesome 
 stories, with unique twists and plots. Both provide awesome augmentations, neat characters, and 
 well done polishing.
  
  I have never been so hooked on a game in quite a long time. I was able to beat this game in 2-3 
 straight days of playing. I would say it's pretty average for an FPS.
  
  Deus Ex Invisible War stands tall next to it's brother, provides unique and innovative gameplay 
 that was found in the original, what more could you want?
  
  A negative is that it doesn't support 2 cores. You have to disable a core before startup, which 
 is a pain. It's a tad-bit buggy as well. The game quality easily makes you look past these things. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuckyPierre1441
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  A sequel to a game like Deus Ex should really be geared toward the fans of the series. And considering 
 the first game was a commercial success, it's hard to understand why this one was dumbed down so 
 much. For me, the problems far outweigh any positives. When you first start the game it seems as 
 though it will be a worthy successor. The graphics are rather well done and the sound design much 
 better than the first game. As soon as you exit your apartment the action starts and you can easily 
 be drawn in. It's after the training level that you realize this is a very different game. While 
 the overhauled Biomod system works better than the original (allowing you to swap out unwanted 
 mods) the skill system from the first game is gone all together. i don't understand the point of 
 this personally, as it would be nice to increase your proficency with multitools (the games lockpicks 
 for either doors or computers) or the weapons you use. The targeting system in the game is too 
 clunky feeling and can't be adjusted causing you to waste ammo. This is made worse by the fact 
 that all weapons in the game use the same ammo! If you find yourself in a jam with several enemies 
 and use up all your ammo, it's up the creek for you unless you run away to dumpster dive in the 
 games claustrophobicly small cities for more clips. Another serious problem in relation to the 
 first game is that the plot is paper thin and at points doesn't make sense. About halfway through 
 the game (only five hours or so) you are told to meet up with the legendary JC Denton from the 
 original adventure... but why? Your character has no reason to be interested, and up until that 
 point in the game he isn't even mentioned except by random snippets in books or news terminals. 
 Furthermore, there is also no REAL consequence to the decisions you make in the game, as at a certain 
 point it all comes together and you play down the same path no matter what. Without the enthralling 
 story, charm, or even passable combat of the first game, all you're left with is a typical shooter 
 who's only purpose was to look good at the time of its release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Toward the end of Deus Ex: Invisible War, I met the pop princess, NG Resonance. Not the AI hologram 
 that coos and coddles, bar-dancing tirelessly for patrons as a virtual jukebox early in the game, 
 but the star in the flesh. Unlike her photonic twin, who dispenses snappy patter and good-natured 
 encouragement, the real NG turned out to be a bratty diva.
  
  The unspoken irony is that the most inspirational symbol of humanitys hope for the future, and 
 one of the only genuinely nice characters you meet in this sequel to PC Gamers Best Game of 2000, 
 is artificial  a perfect copy of an imperfect original.
  
  And that goes for you as well. Playing as AlexD, the male or female (your choice) hero of Invisible 
 War, youre a clone whos expected to carry on the legacy of your older brother, JC Denton. Its 
 been 20 years since the end of Deus Ex, and depending on whom you ask, the missing JC is either 
 reviled or revered. Society suffers from the after-effects of The Great Collapse, a global depression 
 blamed on his actions during the first game.
  
  As the game starts, youre enrolled in the Chicago branch of the Tarsus Academy, a training school 
 for the cybernetically biomodified. The opening movie sets up the action: A terrorist disintegrates 
 all of Chicago, forcing a last-minute evacuation of Tarsus to its facility in New Seattle. Is he 
 after Tarsus? Is he after you? Or does he just hate Chicago? The answers to these questions, and 
 many more, are eventually revealed (but not here) .
  
  The frustration in discussing Invisible War is that theres so much you cant discuss without giving 
 away spoilers. Like its predecessor, this engrossing RPG is built on a conspiracy theorists house 
 of cards. Plotlines and allegiances dovetail betwixt and between competing organizations, all clamoring 
 for your compliance in restructuring humanity. Theres the WTO, a corporation with financial holdings 
 in the status quo; the Order, a religious cult dedicated to personal fulfillment; the Omar, a cyborg 
 clan that preaches better living through technology; and others, whose intentions may not be so 
 clear.
  
  Almost immediately, youre presented with myriad choices, not the least of which is who to serve. 
 Missions ranging from assassinating rivals to infiltrating bases are offered by NPCs, usually for 
 cash rewards or biomods. These cybernetic upgrades (called augmentations in Deus Ex) can give 
 you special powers such as enhanced strength, cloaking abilities, X-ray vision, and more.
  
  How you proceed is up to you. As in Deus Ex, youre given the tools to accommodate your personal 
 play style, whether its blasting through the front door with guns a-blazing or sneaking around 
 ventilator shafts avoiding contact. I cant say that I pulled it off, but Ion Storm claims you 
 can complete the entire game without killing anyone.
  
  No doubt youve heard about the technical wizardry implemented in making Invisible War a true immersive 
 simulation: real-time lighting, normal mapping (which gives greater depth to flat textures) , ragdoll 
 physics, and complex AI routines. And to be sure, its fun to fling dead bodies at walls just to 
 watch them crumple into amusing poses. But the technological advances here are more like a dress 
 rehearsal for Ions next game, Thief III, than a gameplay-altering improvement.
  
  For example, the dynamic-lighting system that casts shadows on the fly certainly looks cool, and 
 theoretically, you can hide from adversaries in the shifting darkness. The problem is, lights cant 
 be destroyed, and only some can be switched off. Likewise, all objects in the game have disproportionate 
 mass. Even without enhanced strength, you can hoist cups, bodies, or explosive metal boxes like 
 they were Styrofoam, and toss or kick each just as easily. Try throwing a lamp as a weapon, and 
 itll bounce off your opponent. Unless youve augmented your strength, the damage done will be 
 minimal.
  
  Similarly, NPCs in Invisible War have the AI of idiot savants. Theyre intelligent enough to investigate 
 strange noises or engage in spontaneous small talk, but lack the smarts to take evasive action 
 while being shot in the face. Too often, one will stand stiffly in front of you as it returns fire, 
 ironically becoming more limber in death once the ragdoll physics take over.
  
  And, as beautiful as the graphics are (the bloom effect gives every light source a subtle but highly 
 realistic softness) , theyre coated with a veneer of malaise. From the poshest apartment in New 
 Seattle to the grimiest slum in Cairo, the games desolate color palette relies heavily on gray, 
 brown, and tan. True, the post-apocalyptic future presented in Invisible War isnt a cheerfully 
 tropical one, but its bland sameness is more dyspeptic than dystopian.
  
  Dont get me wrong: Invisible War is still an excellent RPG, and with four different possible outcomes 
 (plus one secret ending) and numerous side-quests, you can play it repeatedly without seeing 
 everything. (I finished two of them.) But its rough edges keep it from being an Editors Choicelevel 
 game that everyone should play.
  
  Among those rough edges are some fairly serious hardware issues. Framerates crawled on a PC with 
 a mid-range GeForce 3D card, even at 800x600 resolution. Even a 3.2GHz machine with a GeForce FX 
 5950 had disappointing framerates at just 1024x768. (ATI cards fared much better with the latest 
 3.9 drivers.) I also experienced numerous game crashes that sent me back to the desktop, so save 
 your games often. Future patches will undoubtedly fix these bugs (particularly for GeForce cards) , 
 but they collectively damage the sense of being lost in this hyper-realistic, immersive world.
 
  
  With the right hardware, Invisible War offers a thought-provoking, multi-layered journey with a 
 side order of free choice. Be warned, though: There are no light or dark sides to join, no good 
 or evil options, only a rainbow of grays. Just pretend youre reading a 10,000-page Choose Your 
 Own Adventure edition of Conrads Heart of Darkness, and dont panic when all paths eventually 
 lead to ruin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex: Invisible War is a first-person computer and video game developed by Ion Storm Inc. and 
 published by Eidos Interactive. Released simultaneously for Windows and the Xbox video game console 
 on December 2, 2003, the game is a sequel to the critically acclaimed Deus Ex. Invisible War was 
 well-received critically and commercially, holding 80 and 84 scores at Metacritic for the Windows 
 and Xbox versions, respectively, and selling more than 300,000 copies in North America.
  
  Invisible War takes place twenty years after Deus Ex, in a world being rebuilt after a catastrophic 
 event called The Collapse. Following a terrorist attack that destroys the city of Chicago, the 
 player assumes the role of Alex D, a trainee at the fictional Tarsus Academy, whose support is 
 sought by several organizations. As the game progresses, the player learns of conspiratorial factions 
 which seek to drastically change the world. Invisible War was designed to allow player choice in 
 both plot and gameplay, with branching plot lines and emergent gameplay elements. This freedom 
 of choice was widely praised by critics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  The thing I really, really loved about the original Deus Ex  one of my favourite games of all 
 time  was that it was deeply involving, under the illusion of a shallow first-person shooter. 
 Surface simplicity masked a complex game merging elements of action, adventure and role-playing. 
 This complexity allowed for massive variety during play, each mission having many different ways 
 to completion. Sneak? Fight? Talk? Hack? And on the surface, Invisible War looks much the same. 
 There are still choices to be made as to your methods. There are still various combat and non-combat 
 options, interesting environments and a surprisingly open structure. Various missions, objectives 
 and side-quests (including a vaguely familiar coffee war) are completed in and around a central 
 hub for each main area, and for the most part you can complete as little or as much of the game 
 as you wish, outside of the main plot of course. The freedom is there; its only when you continue 
 playing for a while that you realise that the underlying complexity is gone. To put it bluntly, 
 everything about the game is dumbed down to the point where it becomes a first-person shooter with 
 barely a hint of what made the original unique. Weapons all use the same ammunition store. Gone 
 are the character skill points. The customisable bio-mods have been overly streamlined. The intriguing 
 cyberpunk universe of Deus Ex is no more, replaced by a generic dystopia setting with a half-hearted 
 attempt at moral murkiness. The AI is possibly dodgier than the original. Now, Im not saying Invisible 
 War is a bad game. Far, far from it. In fact, its a great game. Solid, exciting, challenging and 
 occasionally downright charming. Some people might even appreciate the added slickness. But when 
 youve got to live up to a forefather such as Deus Ex well, theres not much else to say other 
 than disappointing. Oh, and there are spelling mistakes throughout too. Maintinance? Deterrance?
 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  The graphics are good but nothing special. The models and environments are fairly detailed and 
 nicely varied depending on the area. Theres something up with the character faces though  everyone 
 has bugged-out eyes and a five oclock shadow, even the ladies. The interface also gets on my nerves; 
 as the ugliest and most distracting cross-hair and heads-up display Ive ever seen in a first-person 
 game is nothing short of annoying.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  The music is pretty good, including some great work by industrial rockers Kidneythieves. Sound 
 effects are great too and you can generally hear whats going on  essential if youre trying for 
 the sneaky route. As for voice work, I dont know about the male protagonist, but the female main 
 character sounds like shes reading her lines off the back of a cereal packet. Dull, lifeless and 
 kinda annoying. The non-player characters have decent voice acting though, if a little flat.
  
  Value: 8/10
  A fairly long game, not as long or involved as the original Deus Ex, but worth 
 spending some time with. I wouldnt pay full whack, but its a few years old now and should be 
 available on the cheap.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  Great.
  
  Pros:
  More accessible than its predecessor.
  Lots of freedom.
  Good variety of locations.
  
  
 Cons:
  Slicked-up and dumbed-down.
  Generic, sometimes boring setting.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you thought that Deus Ex was the best thing since sugared doughnuts, then youll 
 be disappointed with this. If you liked the openness of Deus Ex but yearned for shooter glaze, 
 choose this one. If you didnt like Deus Ex in the first place, go play Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madeirense
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 2, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the first games i bought blindfolded... i haven't played the first title and 
 i was kinda ceptic about this one... to tell you the truth, it surprised me right from the start... 
 the easy mode it's just that: easy. Too easy, in fact. I recomend any player to start playing in 
 medium difficulty. The learning curve is very gentle and the gameplay is very good... The plot 
 is pretty good, alowing the player to construct it's own dialogue. This way, we can decide which 
 faction to suport... some goals are common to more than one faction, and we can acomplish the objectives 
 to help any of them... the variety of wepons isn't much, but it's enough to have fun killing whatever 
 enemies we encounter. I strongly recomend this title to any of this genre fan... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  There is a small group of games that are so revolutionary, so ambitious and vast in scope that, 
 while they may have a great many faults, one can be very forgiving in their criticism. Baldur's 
 Gate 2, Morrowind, and No One Lives Forever fall into this category. So did the original Deus Ex. 
 Deus Ex had so many faults and shortcomings that they would have absolutely crippled an otherwise 
 average game. The enemy AI was atrocious, the sound effects and voice acting were laughable, the 
 graphics were awful and the performance was ridiculously poor -- they had to release a patch just 
 to get the game playable on Direct3D cards. But Deus Ex wasn't an average game. It's open-ended 
 multi-solution gameplay, excellent RPG elements, great setting and storyline, and truly unique 
 atmosphere made it one of the greatest games of all time. So with the sequel the developers should 
 have had a fairly straightforward job, right? Address the shortcomings in the original while keeping 
 the same magic that made the first game so spectacular. Unfortunately this isn't what Ion Storm 
 decided to do. For reasons I'll never be able to fathom they set about fixing everything that wasn't 
 broken while completely ignoring the two biggest faults of the original. The end result is a game 
 that's average at best, but when compared to its predecessor it's pretty much a travesty. The first 
 warning signs came with the extremely ill-conceived demo. Never in PC gaming history has there 
 been an uproar from the gaming community as there was with the Invisible War demo. It revealed 
 for the first time just how much Warren Spectre and his team at Ion Storm had gutted the much-beloved 
 Deus Ex model. Petitions were circulated to try to convince the developer to take the game back 
 and fix it, even at the cost of delays. It was in vain. When the game was released it confirmed 
 what everyone had feared: this was not the Deus Ex they'd hoped for. Even if they had released 
 a game with the same strengths and weaknesses of the original I would have been happy. Or at least 
 happier than I am with this. Because not only did they keep the weaknesses, they added a slew of 
 new ones. The new faults exist for two main reasons. First, the game was released concurrently 
 for the PC and Xbox, and thus had to cater to the Xbox's inferior hardware, particularly its memory 
 restrictions. And these aren't just graphical problems, it also means the levels are ridiculously 
 small, nothing like the sprawling areas of the original. And second, Warren Spectre and his team 
 have some really bizarre ideas regarding accessibility . They claim they want to make the game 
 accessible to everyone, but in reality they removed most of what made Deus Ex such a great game. 
 While the quality of the graphics will be discussed in the appropriate section below, it must be 
 noted here that this game is a ridiculous performance hog. Even hugely powerful systems will have 
 trouble running it. For a game that sacrificed everything that made its predecessor good for the 
 sake of being easy to play, they sure made it as difficult as possible to get running acceptably. 
 In fact out of the box it shipped with most of the Xbox settings for screen size and lighting, 
 they had to release a patch just to fix this oversight. The game has now been patched to the point 
 where it's a bit more reasonable, but still, when accessibility is your goal you probably shouldn't 
 release a game that requires tweaking *. ini files just to get running. If you finally do manage 
 to complete the surprisingly tough mental exercise of just getting the game to run, you'll be treated 
 with a game that's been drastically dumbed down from its predecessor, supposedly in an effort to 
 prevent you from having to think too much. Why they did this is anyone's guess. The changes range 
 from the innocuous to the mildly annoying to the straight out offensive. Here are some of the bigger 
 ones: All ammo in the game has been replaced with a common energy system that powers all weapons. 
 Apparently it was too difficult to keep track of the different ammo types in the original. I for 
 one didn't have problems with it, but oh well. The energy ammo system is not so bad as some have 
 made it out to be. The weapons themselves are still unique enough to offer variety in their own 
 right. It's still a mystery as to why they would do this, the original wasn't broken. The original's 
 lockpicks and multitools have been combined into one tool, and -- here's the worst part -- they are 
 not dependent on any skill system. Which means lockpicking / electronic hacking amounts to a pure 
 logistics question: Do I want to spend 3 of my multitools on this? There's no option to specialize 
 in lockpicking so that future problems would be easier. This leads to the game's worst change for 
 the sake of accessibility : the skill system has been removed. Completely. Warren claims it's been 
 folded into the biomod system, but this is a joke. The original game had strong RPG elements with 
 great character customization and specialization. Invisible War has almost none of this. Oddly 
 enough, this time they went to the effort of giving you the choice between a male or female protagonist, 
 with all the added voice-over work required for that. Warren, a word of advice: when you completely 
 rip out the meaningful character customization options, nobody really cares whether or not they 
 can play as a dude or a chick. Adding to these insults is the fact that each level in Invisible 
 War is incredibly small. I honestly can't remember ever playing a first-person game where the maps 
 were this tiny. And this is in a game that's supposed to portray sprawling cities! Supposedly this 
 is because of the Xbox's memory constraints, but I've seen Xbox games with far bigger levels than 
 this. And given the obvious problems Warren's team has from a technical standpoint (they really 
 do need to hire some skilled programmers) , I find it difficult to completely fault the Xbox for 
 this. Warren said in an interview that this forced them to adopt the mantra Smaller and deeper. 
 No Warren, it's just smaller. You ripped out everything that made the game deep. The game's storyline 
 has much the same flavour of the original (this is good) , but you aren't given nearly enough background 
 information to properly establish the setting and global atmosphere (this is bad) . The original 
 struggled with this too, but you were given lots of newspapers and books to read. Invisible War 
 has much less of these story resources. It still has the cyberpunk atmosphere of the original and 
 has some pretty cool tech ideas. It still, in a more limited degree, has the stealth-based multi-solution 
 gameplay that made the first game so famous. So if you'd never played the original Deus Ex you 
 might find Invisible War tolerable enough to be fun. But those of us who played and loved the first 
 Deus Ex will find Invisible War an enormous disappointment. Thankfully the ear-bleedingly bad voiceovers 
 from the original are gone. Or most of them are, anyway. The game offers a lot of voice work and 
 most of it is pretty good. The game's music, in the few places you'll hear it, is quite good, but 
 it's really only found in places like nightclubs. But the weapon's sounds aren't great and the 
 environments are devoid of any background noise. Granted, you want to be able to hear the enemy 
 soldiers' footsteps, but there should still be background noise in a city centre or back streets 
 or industrial facility. This lack of sound really hurts the immersive factor, though admittedly 
 not nearly as much as some of the game's other shortcomings. The sound is decent but doesn't even 
 come close to making up for the game's failings.
  
  Invisible War is a first-person shooter / RPG hybrid that heavily emphasizes stealthy gameplay. 
 Though its RPG elements have been severely handicapped compared to its predecessor, the game still 
 holds to this general formula. There are a good number of quests, many of them optional. There 
 are a great many NPCs to talk to and some interesting locales to visit. Since the skill (and consequently 
 the level up ) system has been removed, character customization comes down to the biomod system. 
 And even here it's been reduced from the original. You have five customizable biomod slots, and 
 with each you'll choose one upgrade from three options. Supposedly each slot has two legal upgrades 
 and one black-market , but other than being harder to find there is absolutely no adverse consequence 
 to choose the black market ones. These biomods do let you customize your character to some degree, 
 but they aren't entirely balanced. There are some that are virtually essential (i. e. computer hacking) , 
 and others that are so extremely helpful (i. e. bot domination) that they dwarf their competitors. 
 Oh, and don't worry if you choose one that you end up not liking: the choice isn't permanent, you 
 can change biomods in any given slot anytime you find an upgrade canister. Unfortunately the biggest 
 fault of the original is still here: the enemy AI is as stupid as can be. When Deus Ex was released 
 in 2000 this was forgiveable, especially considering how good the rest of the game was. But today, 
 with the likes of Halo and Vietcong demonstrating some very believable AI, Invisible War just seems 
 ridiculous. You'll end up treating the patrolling guards as walking surveillance cameras, because 
 that's about as bright as they are. The game still manages to throw some interesting puzzles your 
 way. You usually have several options to choose from in any given situation, and if Rambo is your 
 role model then the old tried-and-true guns blazing method can work. The combat system is decent, 
 and the weapons have that good feeling so that they seem fluid and natural. Ammo is scarce, however -- this 
 is intentional, as the game does not encourage run-and-gun tactics. And even if you find lots of 
 ammo your maximum carrying capacity is small. So most times you won't just be asking yourself How 
 can I get past this situation? , but rather How can I do this without spending too much of my ammo? 
 The weapons themselves can be upgraded, and this weapons modification system is one of the few 
 aspects of the game that is better than its predecessor. There are now 8 (or maybe 10, I forget) 
 possible weapon mods, including everything from silencers to accuracy improvements to recoil reduction 
 to EMP attacks (makes your weapon hurt mechanical enemies) to the ability to destroy glass silently 
 and without triggering alarms. Weapons can usually have two different modifications attached. The 
 result is that there is an enormous range of weapon capabilities. A shotgun that has an EMP upgrade 
 and ammo conservation is a much different weapon than a shotgun with rapid-fire and reduced recoil 
 mods. The much-ballyhooed dynamic lighting and physics systems, while looking pretty, add absolutely 
 nothing to the gameplay. Prior to the game's release Warren was making it sound as if these would 
 produce gameplay that had never been seen before. It was all smoke and mirrors. Nevertheless, if 
 you ignore the multitude of shortcomings compared to the original, Invisible War still offers some 
 interesting gameplay. It's just a shame it fell so, so far from the standards set by its predecessor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genji_glove1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex: Invisible War is without a doubt one of my favourite games of all time. It really does 
 have a completely unique atmosphere and mood, and there are dozens of different ways to play the 
 game. I have completed the game 7 times, got every ending, and I am still not bored of it.
  
  Graphics
  
  The lighting in Invisible War is very, very dark. Many people complain that 
 this makes it difficult to see where you are going but, well, this is the point. What is the purpose 
 of having a torch attached to your pistol, or having the night vision biomod, if you can see clearly 
 all the time? Having to rely on in-game devices rather than simply turning up the brightness is 
 very immersive, and makes the game world seem far more cohesive and realistic.
  
  Sound
  
  The music in IW also contributes greatly to the atmosphere. It is very futuristic, and adapts 
 well to your situation. The sound effects, however, are one of the few weak areas of the game. 
 The weapons simply dont sound powerful enough (except for the SMG) . It sounds like you are shooting 
 an enemy with a pea-shooter, and not with a futuristic instrument of high-powered death.
  The voice acting is still quite good though, and it is very impressive that they have provided 
 a full voice track for every single faction (so if someone hates you they will talk to you in a 
 very angry voice, and vice-versa) . Gameplay
  
  The Gameplay in IW is largely up to you. If you like stealth, you can create a character that moves 
 silently hacks computer systems and can even turn invisible for short periods.
  
  Story
  
  Story is one of IWs strongest features. Not only is there a deep narrative for you to uncover, 
 the story actually changes radically depending on what faction (s) you support.
  
  In conclusion, as I said at the beginning of this review, IW is a completely unique game, with 
 huge replay value. &pound;5 is nothing for such an incredible game, and with a sequel announced 
 recently, there has never been a better time to pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerohour38
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Deus ex invisible war is one of my highly anticiapted games of all time it is almost close to perfect 
 but does have some minor flaws blocking it. Deus ex starts off u as a student at the tarsus academy 
 and it is attacked by some religious cult called the order. The gameplay of Deus ex invisible war 
 is very nice in some ways the ability to use some kind of superpowers by injecting things into 
 you and using a variety of weapons and tools. Also digged up from the Gameplay is the Deus Ex choice 
 system whic makes you decide wot you are going to say to the person your talking to sometimes though 
 picking the wrong choice can lead you into trouble. Some of the Minor flaws with the game include 
 the A. I which is terrible or somewhat missing. you could kill somebody and throw them around like 
 they were some crash dummy also if u walk into someones office and throw everything around they 
 wont pay much bother or even care wot u are doing to there office. also the sound has some glitches 
 in the game. If u enjoyed deus ex 7 years ago i suggest u pick this up from the store 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scullyy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  My favorite genre is FPS/RPG, so I had to try this game out. A lot of Deus Ex fans were dissapointed 
 with this game, but because I hadn't played Deus Ex at the time I didn't know what to expect.
 
  
  Pros:
  -FPS/RPG :)
  -I loved the biomods
  -Physics engine. Maybe not the best, but still..
  -Weapon upgrades
  -Non/semi linear
  
 
  Cons:
  -Very dark... Yes this is cool when you're sneaking and stuff, but sometimes it was just annoying
 
  -Voices acting is very flat
  -When you get closer to the end of the game you'll be drowning in biomod canisters, which are being 
 wasted cause you're max in all skills
  -The AI sucked
  -Enemies never miss you, so you have to duck and hide a lot
  -Small weapon selection
  
  Yes, 
 it may seem like a lot of cons, but overall this is a great game. It has a high replay value as 
 you can choose to join a different faction the next time you play for different endings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex: Invisible War sets you in the same futuristic environment that set such a standard in 
 the first episode of the series. The story will literally take off after the hero of Deus Ex completes 
 his final tasks and start with a new protagonist being trained in one of the corporation's facilities.
 
  
  The game offers a very detailed story that might confuse rookies of the series but veterans will 
 be able to familiarize themselves pretty easily. The locations vary in great detail aswell, from 
 the giant high tech cities to the hot and dark towns in the desert.....
  
  All in all the game delivers mostly the same experience as did the first, except for the addition 
 of new secondary missions that the player can attempt to complete in order to gain money, weapons 
 or even modifications.
  
  If you are unfamiliar with this kind of game, star wars KOTOR is probably the most similar title 
 that reflects the gameplay even though this will be from a first person perspective.
  
  I would recommend this but only after checking out the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  We all remember the original Deus Ex. There was no wrong way to do anything. Want to blow everyone's 
 head off with your shotgun? Do you like being surgical and sneaky? Do you like to hack systems 
 and use he security systems to your advantage? If si, this is your ticket to limit less possibilities.
 
  
  DX: Invisible War takes off twenty years after JC's go around, now pitting you as a Covert Ops 
 trainee who goes by the name Alex. D. Things start off pretty bad with the opening cinema showing 
 the complete destruction of Chicago at the hands of Religious fanatical terrorists. You and one 
 other trainee are transported to another Tarsus facillity in Seattle. Once again, things go bad, 
 but I wont give anything away.
  
  The Gameplay is by far the best thing about DX: I W. If you have ever played the origonal Deus 
 Ex, you will know what I mean. Every objective and situation has at least three or four different 
 options. You can kill everything in sight Rambo style, or you can sneak through the shadows shutting 
 off security systems and remain undetected. You can also take on any side quest for any different 
 faction, keep in mind though that every choice has a consequence, good and bad. The only major 
 gripe about the gameplay is that the AI simply sucks. Enemies will mindlessly run towards you and 
 then plant themselves an inch from you and shoot, no taking cover or anything. The only slightly 
 impressive thing I saw was a couple grenade tosses, but that was about it. There is also a good 
 amount of slowdown, so firefights end up like a bad version of The Matrix.
  
  The graphics unfortunately fall short in a couple of cases. Some textures appear quite bland and 
 characters faces appear either creepy or comically retarded up close. Weapons have a good amount 
 of detail added them and look properly futuristic, though some may not like they're favourite guns 
 being overly modernized. Clothing also looks quite good as well though character animations seem 
 a bit off.
  
  The sound holds up fairly well with decent voice overs and mostly electronic musical scores that 
 fit the theme well. Guns lack a proper punch and just don't sound very powerful either.
  
  In the end DX: Invisible War is a great open ended game that almost lives up to the first games 
 legacy. With that aside Invisible War is definitely worth your time, regardless of your playing 
 style, DX I W will provide you with countless hours of exciting action / and adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdavidb
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good sequel to Deus Ex, but you really should play the original first to get the 
 most out of it. Both games are available for cheap these days, so I really think they are worth 
 getting. (I got Invisible War at an auction site, new &amp; sealed, for $5.)
  
  The game is about half as long as most simliar games, which I actually preferred. The story is 
 original and interesting, but in the end there is really no compelling reason to side with one 
 faction or the other. Having multiple choices to make does provide a considerble bit of variation 
 to the game play and the story line as you go along. Choice of biomods, weapons, and weapons upgrades 
 will also greatly influence your ability to play through a particular sequence. While some of these 
 choices may seem obvious as you start out, swapping out biomods or finding another weapon to apply 
 different upgrades can make a huge difference in a given level. The guided rocket is one of the 
 coolest weapons of any game I've played. The silenced sniper rifle is very handy. Maxed out stealth 
 and cloaks are also quite usefull, especially when ammo gets low, but they burn alot of power.
 
  
  The graphics are very good, but I did have stuttering issues with the opening and ending scenes, 
 even at lower settings. The sound is good, especially the occassional Kidneythieves songs. They 
 fit the mood of this game perfectly. I had a few issues with saved games not actually being saved. 
 Save often, and save and save again before exiting the game.
  
  If you like sci-fi, action-adventure, role-playing , shooters, you'll like Deus Ex: Invisble War. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex: Invisible War sets you as Alex Denton, a young student at Tarsus who is biomoded and very 
 elite. You make many choices in this game and each has its own reprocusions. If you kill a trader 
 later in the game his friends may not be too happy and instead of helping you they will turn on 
 you and you must survive.
  
  The graphics have a futuristic feel along with the environment. The game does this very well with 
 great lighting but some objects in the world could have looked better. The physics are very sand 
 boxy and can be fun whilst in a fire fight but the objects and bodies in the game react poorly 
 like they are weightless.
  
  The weapons and biomods are very fun and add a cool RPG element to Invisible War. You can modify 
 you weapons with 10 mods including silencers, glass destabliizers, and EMP shots. There are around 
 15 skills that you can get from biomods. Most are pretty basic but cool skills like Hacking, Health 
 Regeneration, and Environmental Danger Resistance are avaliable.
  
  With all the open world choices and fun gameplay comes the bog down of A. I. The NPCs play a major 
 role in the game due to the fact that they let you make choices and give you quests. The sad part 
 is that these A. I. are almost brain dead. You can throw bodies at them and they will stand there 
 like nothing happened. The A. I. can also glitch and get stuck in walls and other various bugs can 
 occur. Speaking of bugs I got a game stopping bug that reverted my save to the start of an area 
 and TOOK EVERY SINGLE THING from my inventory. This is just ludacris, seeing as this was AFTER 
 I had patched.
  
  While I wanted to love Deus Ex: Invisible War as much as the original the A. I. and bugs held me 
 back. If you are willing to risk your time and want a open and rewarding Shooter try out, Deus 
 Ex: Invisible War.
  
  Pros+ RPG elements, Tons of Choices, Weapon Mods, Graphics, Futuristic Setting done right
  
 
  Cons- Loading Screens, A. I., Game ending Glitches + Bugs, Shorter than the first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  Although IW isn't as powerful a story as the original game, it is still a great game. The only 
 faults I see in the game is the end level followed by the lackluster multiple endings. Those shortcomings 
 aside.. the game is perfect and a worthy successor.. the length of the game is shorter than the 
 original, but perhaps this was to make it a viable length for console gamers. The physics engine 
 functions well and I think is the first FPS game of its time to use physics.. which should account 
 for something.
  
  When this game first came out many people thought the system requirements were astronomical.. that 
 the game was too unoptimized and thus a horrible second game.. but as time progressed and more 
 people upgraded their comps, that ideology has changed.. Graphics were pretty darn good for this 
 period of time and have aged fairly well. Sound is still what you expect from Deus Ex or any sci-fi 
 game.. and the music is great.
  
  Value comes with multiple endings depending on faction chosen, which gives the game replayability. 
 Although it isn't as replayable as the first it still does a good job.
  
  I give this game a solid 9 since I still play the game and still enjoy it.. It is worth a second 
 look to anyone who played or tried to play it when it was released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex was one of those titles that nobody really expected. Released in 2000 by Ion Storm, a developer 
 whose reputation was in shambles after the massive public failure known as Daikatana, Deus Ex provided 
 a style of gameplay and storyline still unmatched today, four years later.
  
  As I sit down and write this review, I think back and can say I was truly inspired by Deus Ex. 
 It is still my favourite title ever developed to this day, even with so many new games available. 
 Although the game engine is archaic by todays standards, and the graphics aren't a whole lot better, 
 no other developer has taken on the challenge of a first-person shooter and RPG hybrid as expansive 
 and complex as Deus Ex. It really is sad to see Ion Storm close shop, and though they were riddled 
 with problems from the beginning, they were able to produce such legendary titles such as the Deus 
 Ex and Thief series. One more casualty of the gaming industry, and unfortunately it raises the 
 question will we ever see another title like Deus Ex again?
  
  In the original, you were JC Denton, a biomechanically augmented human. A plague known only as 
 the Grey Death is slowly destroying mankind. The world is in chaos, terrorist factions are the 
 controlling bodies, and nothing is what it seems. A cure has been developed, but it is a heavily 
 guarded secret, and only a select few have access to it. Working as a UNATCO Agent, JC Denton traveled 
 around the world uncovering conspiracies and secrets on terrorist factions and UNATCO itself. Deus 
 Ex contains three completely different endings, depending ultimately on your decisions; the sequel 
 assumes you selected the most probable of these outcomes. Without giving too much of the original 
 plot away, you end up discovering and understanding who the real terrorists are, and after taking 
 down the global communications network, it initiated a phase in history called the Collapse.
  
  In Deus Ex: Invisible War, twenty years has passed since the Collapse. Details about that time 
 are scarce, and some even believe JC Denton to be a myth. Few people truly understand what happened, 
 and details are shrouded in mystery. You are Alex D, a biomodified human, and are involved in a 
 lot more than you bargained for.
  
  The story opens with an attack on the city of Chicago. Through the explosions and chaos, you are 
 whisked away quickly into a helicopter and taken to Seattle. As the story progresses, youll learn 
 the truth about Chicago, and uncover the secrets behind the WTO and Order Church, and ultimately 
 be left to made a decision on whom to support. Later, a faction called the Templar Paladins come 
 into play, a cult-like group of individuals who are strongly against biomodification, and will 
 do whatever they feel is necessary to stop it and restore humanity. The storyline is complex, 
 and youll only really understand it from start to finish if youve played the original to completion. 
 Bits and pieces of the original storyline are scattered on the loading screen, but they only give 
 small amounts of information, enough to get an idea of what is happening but nowhere close to understanding 
 the history and scope of the overall plot.
  
  My first thought when launching Invisible War was the overly complex interface. Although the opening 
 sequence and menu system is slick, weapon assignment and inventory management seemed overly complex. 
 The actual in-game user interface took a bit of getting used to, and with so many menus (pausing 
 the game, biomodifications, and weapons and inventory management) , its easy to get lost quickly. 
 My only other issue with the menu interface is one issue that if you are receiving a message from 
 one of your contacts within an organization, you cannot pause the game or assign weapons. Should 
 you be in a firefight and receive a message, simply run for cover as you wont be able to restore 
 health or activate your biomodifications until they have finished speaking.
  
  These biomodifications are a core part of your survival; they allow you to complete tasks that 
 would be otherwise impossible. By installing biomod canisters, you gain additional abilities, whether 
 its a strength upgrade for the ability to carry large barrels, regeneration to restore your health, 
 or simply a thermal masking augmentation which makes you invisible to most bots. In addition to 
 these legal canisters, black-market biomod canisters can be obtained later in the game, these 
 allow non-standard functionality. The most useful of these black-market upgrades is hacking, 
 which allows you to shut down surveillance equipment or steal credits from ATMs. These credits 
 are very useful for bribes and other tasks, and are often difficult to come by if you dont obtain 
 them from the ATMs.
  
  One of the greatest strengths of the Deus Ex series is the plotline, and the numerous tasks you 
 are given to complete. Often, youll end up with conflicting tasks, for example, killing a specific 
 individual may please one faction, but will enrage another. In the end, as long as you havent 
 turned everyone against you, then you likely are doing quite alright. You have to pick your alliances, 
 and weigh each task carefully to determine your greatest benefit. Invisible War has a primary plotline, 
 but is also offers a wealth of side tasks that can be completed for additional rewards such as 
 biomod canisters, weapon upgrades, or simply some spending money. Invisible War offers a variety 
 of unique weaponry, each with a specific purpose. One of the strangest decisions made by Ion Storm 
 was the fact that all weapons pull ammo from a common supply, which means your rocket launcher 
 and pistol use the same ammunition and simply deplete it at different rates. Although this simplifies 
 management somewhat, it can be overly frustrating at times as you waste more ammunition, especially 
 since it is extremely difficult to come by. The game features the basic firearms, pistol, shotgun, 
 SMG, and a sniper rifle. With that said, once you obtain the sniper rifle its unlikely youll 
 use many of the others again, as heads shots are an instant kill and its easiest to sit fifty 
 feet back and take your enemies out one at a time. These types of weapons are upgradeable; enhancements 
 such as a silencer, ammo reducer, and glass destabilizer are available. Strap a silencer on your 
 sniper rifle, and youve got a virtually unstoppable weapon in your hand.
  
  The EMP is one of the most efficient and useful weapons in the game. Mounted as a secondary fire 
 on the Mag Rail rifle, or more simply as a mine or grenade, it has the ability to permanently disable 
 both military bots and other electronic devices such as security cameras. Strategically placing 
 an EMP mine, or tossing a few spiderbombs (small spider-like mechanical robots that fire light 
 EMP bursts) can make all the difference at whether you survive a battle. And with ammo so difficult 
 to come by youll find yourself stocking up on grenades and mines as they do not deplete the ammo 
 supply.
  
  The soundtrack for Deus Ex: Invisible War is phenomenal. Take a calm and relaxing melody and fuse 
 it with a bit of techno music. Finally add an orchestral feel, and youll end up with a similar 
 style to that of the Invisible War soundtrack. In fact, Eidos and Ion Storm have freely released 
 the soundtrack for download from the official Deus Ex website, and I so thoroughly enjoyed the 
 musical score I just happen to be listening to it as I put together this article. The background 
 music varies significantly depending on the environment, and really helps build an engaging and 
 enjoyable atmosphere. The sound effects themselves get the job done, but aren't anything in particular 
 to write home about. Gunfire, EMP blasts, and footsteps are all included, but they don't really 
 show the same level of detail and dedication that is present in the other elements of the title. 
 One of the more unique aspects of Deus Ex: Invisible War is the ability to select the gender of 
 your character at the start, and the title includes different voiceovers for both the male and 
 female roles. The voice acting itself is well-spoken and well-written, adding another enjoyable 
 element to the game overall.
  
  Deus Ex: Invisible War isn't perfect. The storyline is captivating, and will keep players coming 
 back for more, but the physics engine has its flaws. One of my big issues with the title was that 
 objects do not seem to be weighted correctly. Whether its a chair or simply a coffee pot, you 
 can send these objects flying across the room like a baseball. When you hit a spectator with an 
 object, they barely flinch and usually do a little complaining, but dont really react much besides 
 that. You can hit a civilian with a table, and nothing really comes of it, having them pull out 
 a gun would have made for a much more interesting game.
  
  Invisible War is not the same as the original; it is a very different game altogether. One of Deus 
 Exs greatest strengths, and weaknesses, was its sheer complexity. Customizable upgrade trees and 
 skill points to increase specific character elements have been simplified significantly or removed 
 altogether in some cases. While this helps to get new players up to speed and reduces the learning 
 curve, it does hurt the title overall. For the Xbox, these changes are more than acceptable, as 
 on a console these complexities would really be overwhelming for a platform that is primarily geared 
 towards fast-paced shooter. For the PC version these customizations were more than welcome as they 
 added yet another dynamic element into the mix.
  
  In comparison to the first, Invisible War is a much more linear storyline. Deus Ex allowed players 
 to go pretty much where they wanted, when they wanted. You could travel around huge environments, 
 and while Invisible War has a similar feel, the environments are significantly smaller. In addition 
 to this, the load times between each environment are excessive, and are lengthy enough that they 
 really become noticeable and slow down the gameplay. Fortunately, the environments themselves are 
 very diverse and span across the globe. You start in Seattle, a city across a much divided landscape. 
 Upper Seattle is a WTO controlled territory, rebuilt after the collapse; it is heavily patrolled 
 and guarded by the WTO and a private security force. Lower Seattle is built on the ruins of the 
 pre-collapse city, the streets are lined with poor and hungry citizens, only an inclinator links 
 the two vastly different living conditions. Throughout your journey, you'll travel through Cario, 
 Egypt, and Trier, Germany. You'll also visit a notable location from the original, but that would 
 give away a bit too much of the plot. These environments are very diversity, and the cultural representations 
 are definitely noticeable. A lot of time and effort has been taken to develop environments that 
 not only help drive the storyline, but also serve to reflect the conditions in each part of the 
 Deus Ex world in the post-collapse civilization.
  
  As with the environments, character and object models are nicely presented. I noticed a few moderate 
 clipping issues, but nothing that really degraded the quality of gameplay. Lighting effects are 
 included as well, but dont particularly play a big role in the game. For example, one of the default 
 biomodifications is a light enhancement, similar to a flashlight in your brain. Throughout the 
 entire game I dont think I used this enhancement at all, the lighting in each level is bright 
 enough that is really doesnt require it. Explosions and short-circuiting bots are a nice addition, 
 but I noticed that explosions especially result in a big hit to the framerate, even on the Xbox. 
 Youll need a powerful system to run the PC version to its full potential; fortunately the Xbox 
 version is able to keep the framerates acceptable in most cases throughout the game.
  
  To be completely honest, when I first started Invisible War I was disappointed. The gameplay seemed 
 clunky, and the storyline wasn't nearly as interesting as the first. After about an hour had passed, 
 my opinion had completely changed. True, the physics engine has its flaws, and the controls are 
 very difficult to learn and master, but once you get past these initial hurdles the storyline seems 
 to envelop you. For two solid days, I could only put down the controller for bathroom breaks and 
 the occasional meal, its addictive nature is unbelievable. Unfortunately, towards the end, I found 
 the game seemed to drag on a bit, especially when facing very powerful bots with virtually no ammunition. 
 The game features four distinct endings, although you don't have to go back far from the completion 
 of the title to choose which way the game will end, and this will likely lead you to simply replaying 
 those few minutes rather than completing the entire title again from a different perspective.
 
  
  The AI in the original Deus Ex was lackluster and it sometimes felt as if the word intelligence 
 was missing completely. Not much has changed in the sequel. Enemies commonly run around in circles 
 while you snipe them off from a distance. Or, if you prefer the more hands-on approach, you can 
 stand directly in front of you enemies no more than fifteen feet away in broad daylight, and they'll 
 mention that they've heard something , but just stand there dumbfounded when you blow them away 
 with a shotgun. Your allies are only slightly better; they often will run directly into your line 
 of fire, and then get really upset when you accidentally shoot them due to their own stupidity. 
 In some cases, enemies are overly aggressive, but these instances are few and far between. Most 
 of the time, you can slowly pick off large groups of soldiers one at a time, and then hide behind 
 a dumpster until they lose interest and walk away. Ion Storm should have really put more work into 
 refining the AI in the Deus Ex series, one of the real downfalls of Invisible War.
  
  My only other gripe with Deus Ex: Invisible War is that the title really is too short. It only 
 takes somewhere in the range of twelve to fifteen hours to complete, and that includes most of 
 the side tasks. This really doesn't compare to the original, which had an average of thirty to 
 forty hours of gameplay, and I can think of where I was up to nearly eighty hours at one point 
 taking my time and living the experience for all it was worth.
  
  Invisible War may not quite live up the standards set by its predecessor, but in the end it is 
 still a very feature-rich and incredibly addictive title. The physics and interface issues may 
 be minor hindrances, but are virtually negligible when you encompass the sheer enormity of the 
 title. Unfortunately, the long load times and numerous crash bugs plague the game. If you can look 
 past these issues, then Deus Ex: Invisible War is well thought-out title, and any fan of the original 
 should definitely take a look.
  
  Presentation 8 The cut scenes and opening menus are slick, but the in-game interface is overly 
 complex. Visual 8 Very solid. Environments and object models are nicely detailed, although a few 
 clipping issues are present The Xbox is able to handle the graphics fairly well, but youll need 
 a high-end PC to run this one at full detail. Audio 9.0 The soundtrack is superb, a combination 
 of techno and relaxing music. Voiceovers are also well spoken, and the addition of both male and 
 female characters is a nice touch. Gameplay 8.0 The physics engine may have its quirks, but Invisible 
 War offers a very immersive gameplay experience that should please most fans of the original. Replay 
 Value 7.0 Its bugs can be frustrating, and although its fairly short, Invisible War offers large 
 number of side tasks that should keep you busy for a while. The ability to make decisions that 
 dynamically affect the storyline is a welcome change to the standard shooter genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerd_rock_riot
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  So the story is half decent, the weapons and biomod upgrades lead to many different playing styles, 
 and the branching gameplay lets you figure out what kind of game you want it to be instead of it 
 being just run and gun aciton... it was decent game....
  The graphics are way too demanding for the quality that they are, and the voice acting is subpar, 
 also it crashes on a semi regular basis.... and some of the sounds are generic and weak, and it 
 gets a little tedious and tired by the end... It was alright though...
  It has four different endings though so it has some replayability, but has no multiplayer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hadiz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  The storyline and gameplay for DX: Invisible War pretty much follows that of the original. It is 
 a hybrid RPG/ first person shooter/ stealth game, in which most objectives have more than one way 
 they can be completed. If you don't have enough ammo to take out a room full of bad guys, you can 
 use a scramble grenade on a turret or bot to temporarily turn them against the guys you need to 
 kill. Or you can use your cloak biomod and sneak by. In this way it is much like its predecessor, 
 however there are many differences.
  
  The ammo in DX: IW is universal, so all ammo works with all weapons as opposed to the original game 
 where each weapon had its own ammo, and if you ran out you had to use another weapon. Also the 
 sequel combines the tech tool and lockpick into one item, the multitool. So one device can both 
 open locked doors and bypass certain electronic devices. DX: IW offers some new biomods, such as 
 the ability to control bots and one that restores your health by consuming dead bodies. A little 
 weird, I know.
  
  The graphics are much improved over the first game, and utilize realistic lighting and physics 
 which works quite well. The original release of the game met with some problems related to how 
 well it ran, as well as features that were in the original game but missing from the sequel (like 
 quicksave and quickload.) Most of these were resolved with patch 1.02 as well as some minor cosmetic 
 adjustments to the UI (the health and energy levels were moved closer in on the display) .
  
  Unfortunately the PC version shares the same size maps as the version that was released on 
 consoles, so therefore us PC gamers have to deal with relatively small maps and what seems like 
 constant loading screens as a result of console hardware limitations. This is also unfortunate 
 as its usually required that you travel back and forth between different areas to complete objectives 
 and it just seems like you're frequently stuck at these long loading screens, which ultimately 
 takes you out of the experience.
  
  As far as the difficulty, it's funny to say that the baton is one of (if not the most) powerful 
 weapons in the game. If you upgrade the passive biomod that makes your melee attacks stronger to 
 the max (which you can do almost from the beginning) , two or three hits from the baton will bring 
 almost any enemy down. Add to that an EMP charge to disrupt bots and turrets and the first 3/4 
 of the game is really easy. Later on you run into enemies that explode when they die, making the 
 close-quarter baton not quite as useful and making you more reliant on ranged weapons.
  
  I would say that Deus Ex: Invisible War is quite a good game in its own right, but it just doesn't 
 live up to the cult classic status of the original in my opinion. If you haven't played through 
 the original there may be bits of the story in the sequel that lose you. Definitely give this game 
 a play if you enjoy hybrid styles of gameplay and an intriguing, open-ended storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex: Invisible War was a fun follow-up to Deus Ex, although it wasn't quite as good as the 
 original. The player continued to control the augmented J. C. Denton in this sequel. The only aspects 
 of Deus Ex: Invisible War which kept it from surpassing its predecessor were the bugs which plagued 
 this release, and the woefully underpowered weapons.
  
  This game provided a rather open-ended storyline, wherein the player's decisions would determine 
 what later options would be available. The player could decide to align himself with an established 
 faction, or could just go rogue, and strike out on his own. Throughout the game, the player was 
 required to complete various tasks in order to further the goals of whichever faction he had aligned 
 himself with.
  
  Deus Ex: Invisible War was very similar to its predecessor, with some minor differences. Enemies 
 were harder to kill in Deus Ex: Invisible War, multiple head shots were required to fell enemies 
 in the later release, vs. the more realistic single shot required in Deus Ex. Additionally, Deus 
 Ex: Invisible War allowed unlimited saves, whereas in Deus Ex the player had a finite number of 
 saves.
  
  One of my favorite aspects of many games is the ability to upgrade, and Deus Ex: Invisible War 
 did not disappoint. The character had a number of bionic functions (augmentations) which could 
 be upgraded along the way, functions such as night vision eyes or the ability to run faster. J. C. 
 Denton had certain skills which could also be upgraded, to include hacking, lock picking, and marksmanship 
 to name a few. The weapons available to J. C. Denton could also be periodically upgraded with increased 
 accuracy, magazine capacity, and the like.
  
  The game's multiple endings were determined by the player's political leaning, but towards the 
 end of the game, the player could decide to align himself with any one of the four factions, irregardless 
 of how the player had aligned himself throughout the preceding levels of the game. This provided 
 a nice option, since the game could be saved right before the decision point, and each of the four 
 endings could be played out, without having to play through the whole game four times.
  
  Unfortunately the company which developed Deus Ex: Invisible War, Ion Storm, has since gone out 
 of business, so fans of the series will have to get their fill from Deus Ex: Invisible War, and 
 its predecessor, Deus Ex. Additionally, Deus Ex: Invisible War was rife with bugs, and now that 
 Ion Storm is gone, it doesn't appear as if we'll see the necessary patches anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougsan
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This game has a good story and an interesting set of side missions. But the load time between areas 
 is soooooooooooooooo long it makes the game boring.
  
  I first palyed this game on a 2001 Gateway - mid level. I now play games on an HP Media Player 
 with 2+G of mem, nvidea 7600, etc. a good machine. DEUS EX: IW played at the same speed on both 
 machines and the load time that drives me nuts is the same on both machines.
  
  That is the bad. The good includes the story (better than DEUS EX and every bit as twisty) . The 
 locations are another good point. Upper and Lower Seattle is a hoot (if only it didn't take as 
 long to get between the two) . That's enough! There are a few good locations but moving from one 
 to the other takes too damned long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berghoff_1
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  The first thing you'll notice when you play the game is the HUD. In some way looks and feels nicer 
 to the future theme but the icon are very large. I as hard-core DX fan pressed F1 to view the inventory, 
 health and other tabs but to my suprise these have been completely removed! Now you need to acces 
 these by pressing, V B N . Also you now have six slots where you can put stuff in. It doesn't matter 
 if these are six rifles or six pistols full = full. In DX your inventory was quicly filled by GEP 
 guns or LAWs but here it doesn't matter, you can always carry six weapons :S.
  
  As you walk around in the first area you also are going to notice how tiny the levels have become 
 (OK in DX1 the levels where engine limited in a way but this is a next-gen engine which can only 
 be found in the graphics) . You talk to a few guys and enter an elevator travel to Tarsus ? You 
 click ok.. load.. This travel to message is also becomes very anoying. The long load times and 
 tiny level bring the pace down to a very slow level which affect gameplay very badly. Also the 
 person you speak to tells you the password to acces the elevator so I try to remember it, I walk 
 to elavator and you don't even have to enter the code anymore which again is another link to the 
 console version. Why can't you manual type another code.
  
  Battles are pretty much very simple as the exprience points are gone. Killing groups of bad guys 
 as never been so easy.
  
  There is however a welcome change, like the overwritting of augmentations. If you feel the augmentation 
 was a bad choise just use another aug. Also the level variation is luckily also quite good: Urban 
 city-life to Egypt, France, Antartica.
  
  There game is basicly driving by a nice story which is sadly just badly executed. The Bad:
  
 
  The biggest let-down of any DX fan: Feels like a console game (huge icons, tiny levels so many 
 things gone or simplified) , but it had so much more potential to become another classic it. Where 
 you in DX could sneak to seek code panel acces codes or general conspiracy story there is now nothing.
 
  
  Inventory is gone and cut into pieces. You can't organise it anymore. Basicly for each category 
 you have six slots .
  
  Universal ammo. Ehhh? Another simplified console thing?
  
  No more experience. Where once you could go different ways to become a master assassin, walking 
 tank, sniper you now can hit where you put the aim-cursor. So headshots are childsplay. Stealth 
 mode is complete rubbish. For example in the Tarsus training hall it is completely dark but no 
 matter how you try the Order dude sees you 90% of the time.
  
  Somehow I miss the nice background themes (Like the one in hong-kong) :-)
  
  The Good:
  
 
  The level interactivity is still there, you can activate showers, sodamachines etc. And use sigs.
 
  
  Augmentations can be overwritten which is nice. In DX you were forever tied to the augmentation 
 you installed.
  
  The difficulty: Realistic is still there. This is very nice, as a headshots kill humans instantly 
 no matter if it is a augmented bio-mech. However the easy aiming in DX-IW brings this down.
  
  Story is good making it worth playing but just enough to make it worth playing as I don't feel 
 at the end like WOW lets play it again to try to complete game without killing anyone which is 
 prolly near impossible.
  
  ---
  
  Please Warren and the team if there is ever going to be a DX3 resume the path were DX1 left in 
 terms of gameplay and freedom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daggersquad
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 22, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the original Deus Ex and upon hearing about a sequel (Deus Ex: Invisible War) 
 I was overjoyed. Although, a slight let down, I found many elements to be quite entertaining.
 
  
  The best aspect of IW is the storyline. Understandably not as good as the original which featured 
 all kinds of interesting conspiracy, it nicely picks up where the original let off. You will revisit 
 old characters and locations so in this respect those who have not played the original may find 
 the plot unintriguing.
  
  The graphics have been vastly improved and the environments are excellently layed out and detailed.
 
  
  One of the largest flaws is the RPG element has been stripped down though and it does affect the 
 game greatly. Now, instead of having skills and biomods (bodily enhancements that give you special 
 abilities) you are left with only the biomods. Also the money system seems to be under used. Occasionally 
 you find someone who will sell you something, but total its maybe a half dozen characters that 
 will take your credits.
  
  Another drawback is the ammunition system, which is one of the most complained about parts of the 
 game, deals the game a serious blow.
  Instead of having pistol ammo, rifle ammo, smg ammo, you have a universal ammo which all weapons 
 use. The best way I can describe it is the ammunition is mana, and the weapons are your spells. 
 So if you run out ammo with the pistol, you have run out of ammo with every weapon (not to mention 
 it seems you cannot carry very much ammo) . So it can be very frustrating to be battling some of 
 the games tougher opponents.
  
  Overall, fans of the series will find it to be a nice continuation with a few disappointments, 
 but those unfamiliar with Deus Ex will find it frustrating and a struggle.
  
  A third game might be nice though. . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korlis612
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  There was a lot of talk, when DX2 was in production, about whether or not it would be dumbed down 
 or overly-simplified for a console audience, seeing at the game would launch simultaneously on 
 Xbox. Unfortunately the negative crowd was right - things suffered. Compared to DX1, there's a 
 lot less depth to what you can do - gone are the skill points, leaving only a more versatile biomod 
 system; the large inventory is now gone, and the whole interface is obviously much more suited 
 for use by a console controller than a keyboard and mouse, with this fact only being rectified 
 in a later patch. The graphics suffered too - textures are muddy, and there is a pervading bloom 
 that, whilst fine on a console and the lower-resolution televisions, serves only to damage the 
 PC offering.
  
  If you can get past the flaws that weaken it in comparison to the first Deus Ex, though, this sequel 
 is still a good game. The storyline pieces together the multiple endings from the first and offers 
 a look at what could have happened afterwards, as the world slides into an increasingly chaotic 
 future. Unlike DX1, where your decisions tended only to matter in the very latter stages of the 
 game, your actions here alter the course of play throughout, leading to several very different 
 conclusions.
  
  Worth-playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinmancr
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 20, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  ok down to it this game has real shiny graphics for the time they are those nice but cartoony ones 
 you see a lot now.
  so we have graphics does no one remeber that half-life was played in a modified version of the 
 "quake 2 engine" looked ok for the time but they knew better than to make a game all about looks 
 cinematic gameplay was they're goal and they achieved it.
  so back to deus ex 2..... the first problem is.. weapons who thinks a flame thrower and a pistol 
 can use the same ammo.
  That is ridiculous and a huge gameplay problem you will always be out of ammo.
  Illogical and 
 no fun they did bring back the sup non-linear gameplay and added little or nothing to it.
  there are patchs to fix most of my other qualms so i end with borrow this don't make the mistake 
 i did and buy it. :  ps almost forgot where is the rpg system all i see is scifi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  It seems that too many people enjoy mindless shooters and aren't up to a challenging story mode 
 like Deus Ex: Invisible War. For Deus Ex fans, there is no excuse. For casual gamers - stick to 
 Deus Ex 1 before this one.
  
  I must admit I am a Deus Ex fanboy. I can't get enough of everything Deus Ex. When I first played 
 this game, I must admit I was disappointed at first, but the story started to draw me in and there 
 was amazing plot twists and turns which kept me playing for hours. The gameplay is almost as Godlike 
 as Half-Life and Deus Ex, however there are a little problems which may ruin the game for some 
 people.
  
  The graphics are simply fantastic, however they do not compare with Doom 3 graphics but they are 
 still sensational. The sound is a little off but still superb. 
  
  Gamers who don't enjoy conspiracy should steer clear of this title - however do not let that chase 
 you away from one of the greatest gaming series ever made. It is way ahead of its time, but no 
 game mixes FPS, RPG and stealth so wonderfully. Fantastic.
  
  :' ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doaNimbus
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  It was a good game but it wasen't as good as the first and the graphics weren't all that great. 
 A very innovative game with a good Idea around it but a crappy story line. But it was re playable 
 so that was good. I think to make this game better, then needed to amp up the graphics and make 
 the story line better, also they needed to give you more biomods to use. The game itself was fun, 
 but I dident like the navagation system. If you looked at the map, it did not tell you where you 
 were, it only told you where spesfic locations were. A good game, but not worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  back in 03 when i first bought this game i used to have a very poor graphics adaptor, i then failed 
 to even start the game ...... and to be frank i didnt even bother trying playing the game ever 
 again ..
  
  i never been a fan of any RPG, but as i got the 1.2 patch which by the way completely convert the 
 game from a complete mess into something realy good, i decided to give it a shot and play Invisible 
 War.
  
  to tell the truth this game deserves alot giving that this game has many assets on which lets say 
 Escape from Butcher's Bay were based on, and those are very good qualities.
  
  after apply the patch you find a great increase in game performance and better visuals, the patch 
 successfully eliminated many faults were in the game like the mouse lagginess and the confusion 
 i used to have while browsing the inventory, press enter or tab or right click you always use the 
 wrong key.
  
  anyways i should just conclude here and just say, this game is really is a classic you must have 
 and i guess it should be really cheap by now, bad thing Ion Storm is no more or we might had seen 
 a triolgy.
  
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusmartin23
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  With a story worth of a book and a series of movies. All the action of the world. Multiple choices 
 of gameplay as well as endings. Travel around different worlds that make complete sense, interacte 
 with everyone. Make friends or just kill them. There are no words to describe it.... Every element 
 in the game is something you can interact with, brake things, grab them, eat them, drink them (out 
 your own accord) . There is a story behind every major weapon. Upgrade bionic self as the game goes 
 with legal and illegal mods that make the gameplay even more fun. The story is utter realistic, 
 something you can see yourself happening just as described. Play this game! you have to! Do not 
 walk around calling yourself a gamer without knowing what Deus Ex is. The story, the fun, BUY IT 
 NOW!!!!
  ciao. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havokk
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex was a great shooter. It had large maps, missions that could be completed in a number of 
 ways, and a really interesting story.
  
  Deus Ex Invisible War is not like that - it is just a run-of-the mill FPS. 
  
  It has small 
 maps. There is one way to complete each mission. The stealth aspects are almost nonexistent. 
 
  
  The story is still pretty interesting but nowhere as involving as the first game.
  
  The pre-patch user-interface was obtrusive and jarring. Post-patch it wasn't too bad.
  
  Every 
 weapon uses the same ammo so once you run out of ammo for one gun you are in trouble. On the plus 
 side, if you have any ammo you get the choice of any of your weapons.
  
  My favourite part of Deus Ex was the skill system where you could make the character better depending 
 on your gameplay. A little RPG-like. THis game has none of this. You have cybernetic enhancements, 
 most of which are useless, leading to a cookie-cutter feel where every player in the world is probably 
 choosing the same enhancements.
  
  That is not to say this game is bad - it's not. It's just not up to the excellence of its predecessor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  Considering the first game was a classic in its own right, I can't shake the feeling of dissapointment 
 after having played the sequel. 
  
  Still, the game does have its moments - as the main story, as was the case with the first game, 
 is great. As always, you have the choice to define the destiny of the world, which has been taken 
 to extremes this time, as the game takes place even further in the future. Be prepared for some 
 twists and turns as the different factions are unmasked.
  
  But the big letdown is the technical side of the game.. Fueled by the same engine used in Thief: 
 Deadly Shadows, the game has the same problems. In my opinion several things doesn't work, and 
 I will make a quick rundown of them:
  
  Graphics: Considering how demanding the graphics are, the final impression are basically drab, 
 uninspired and the highly praised global lighting feature (which brings down performance) seems 
 somewhat dissapointing. Even on a Geforce 7800GT 256MB and with a 2.5 Ghz Athlon64, the game doesn't 
 run as it ought to (some stuttering here and there) . Later I tried it on a C2D E6420@3.2 Ghz and 
 a Geforce 8800 Ultra, and the game ran smooth, so that will give you some idea of where the true 
 requirements for the game are. 
  Well, there are shadows and light, sure, but that doesn't help much when the textures look washed 
 out and the 3D models looks like the have roughly the same number of polygons as the first game. 
 The bump mapping have the same washed out feeling to it and the 'bloom' feature just smear the 
 lighting. 
  
  Controls: This is one of the first games where the consoley feel of the controls actively prevented 
 me from enjoying the game. Suffice it to say the the inventory system os among the worst. It works, 
 but just barely.
  
  Loading times: There are a lot of those, and they are way too long. It takes between 10-20 sec. 
 to load a new level (even on my high performance SATA drive and with 4GB of RAM) - and these levels 
 are very small. This looks like a rough conversion of the xbox, but as PCs don't have the same 
 memory constraints as the first xbox, this shouldve been improved. Perhaps the global lighting 
 constrained the size of the levels as well, who knows.. suffice it to say, that this area also 
 seem bugged by bad programming / poorly optimized PC conversion.
  
  Gameplay:
  Well. Heres to the good part. Some of the missions - and even the main story - does have its moments. 
 
  Unfortunately the AI is buggy; sometimes the enemies just look at the opposite direction in firefights, 
 or has trouble navigating - especially if you throw things in their path. 
  Some of the NPCs has personality beyond what is usually seen in these types of games, and the conspiracy 
 'gloom' of the first game is still intact (fortunately) . But the combat system, as well as the 
 sneak part of the game, left something to be desired. 
  The story is the main reason for playing the game; but I can't shake the feeling of the claustrophic 
 nature of the small levels makes it hard to believe that youre actually in a large city.. you'll 
 have to swallow a lot of immersion breakers like these, if you are to find the gold at the core 
 of this game. 
  
  Fortunately, there are a pot of gold to be found, if you perservere. The story is engaging, even 
 if the poor programming/engine does its best to thwart your attempt to get through the game, and 
 despite its flaws, the game does retain some of the old magic from the first game. So, look in 
 the bargain bin, and stock up on patience, and this game will provide roughly 9 hours of conspiracy 
 bliss for the paranoid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrade12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  If you like first person shooters but a little tired of the way they normally play, this is an 
 amazing title. It's storyline is that of a postapocalyptic 1984-ish cityscape that allows you to 
 choose your own alliances and sneak through the underground in a semi Splinter Cell fashion without 
 all the fancy wallclimbing and such. Throughout the game, the control you have over the story is 
 one of the game's strongest points and the ending does well to not dissapoint. The dialouge is 
 a little mechanical and cumbersome but it takes a way only a little from the game's highly stylish 
 future atmosphere reminicsent of Blade Runner. Through and through this game is a must-play at 
 lease once for every gamer, and its a perfect blend of stealth action, run and gun, and RPG esque 
 story development. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorbichov
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  this game is now on PC Gamer Deals now, so there is no excuse to not buying this.
  
  Gameplay: This game has brilliant gameplay, as you have at least two sets of objectives at any 
 one time, meaning that you can make your own moral choices on the games theme, also you can go 
 through the game without killing anyone... or by killing everyone.
  
  Graphics: Although the graphics themselves aren't spectacular, the movement and lip-synching is 
 very realistic
  
  Sound: The DX music was brilliant DX: IW is an improvement on that
  
  Value: This game is now on the PC Gamer 80%+ budget lists, so it is worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: takhsis
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  While the original Deus Ex was a well- implemented, engrossing story; this game really just makes 
 fun of its memory. Everything is grossly simplified and looks like a simple port of a console game 
 to the pc. The story is fairly good but way to short and without any replay value. 
  
  After running the game on two computers patched to the current version and as installed, I was 
 forced to accept a game crash about every half hour and at one point a permenant crash which a 
 reinstall failed to remedy. Because of this i reduced all scores by three. Its very difficult to 
 get into a story when the game keeps crashing to desktop and graphics dont really matter when i 
 see the startup screen 5 times an hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero-warning
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  This game took everything that made the first game great and made everthing Better. This game is 
 amazing. It takes the old story and continues it. The graphics are amazing along with sound and 
 controle. The use of bio-mods is back with better skills. There is also four multiple endings, 
 all of which I have finished. You play as Alex D. (D stands for Denton) This game lets you do so 
 much more, it allowes you to hack into Computers and take over the controlle of machine gun turrents. 
 This game also lets you do things your way. WHY ARE YOU STILL READING THIS! GO BUY THE GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I rushed out and bought this game and then had to spend another $250.00 for a new video card in 
 order to play it. Expecting a game that would just blow me away, I happily installed Deus Ex: Invisible 
 War and cleared my evening schedule. Fifteen minutes into the game I was kicking myself for having 
 bought it. What can I say, I expected something ground breaking and what I got was something flawed 
 and far from being ground breaking. Sure the graphics were nice, but heavily buggie. The patch 
 helped, but it did not go far enough to fix a lot of the problems the game had. I found that I 
 was bored stiff with the game and despite my best efforts, I could not get into it. I stopped playing 
 the game for about six months then just to justify the expense of buying it, I started to play 
 it again. WOW. I have to say my first impressions of the game were way off. This game turned out 
 to be a very good game indeed. I cannot image why I hated it so when I first started playing, and 
 I am thankful that I did not unistall it and toss the CD into the EBAY bin. I have to be honest, 
 the game does have its flaws, bugs, and quirks, but otherwise it is a fun game if not short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voltameup
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 22, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  Level design is horribe they are much smaller compared to the 1st, its like your in a little box 
 in most of the levels. I have no idea what game gamespot were playing but THIS DOES NOT DESERVE 
 8. Its a sloppy port from the xbox which takes away some of the nicities seen on pc, alot of the 
 interfaces is simplified, we are left with a very dull game. Physics are ridiculas. just looks 
 plain stupid, frame rate is horrible even on good machines. Animation is horrible. Diologes ok. 
 What else can i say. Its just sad to see the follow up to Deus Ex which had quite a bit of substance 
 turned out to be a massive let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fwarmanm
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 21, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  I'm surprised by how bad this game is. The original was a master piece but this one lets the franchise 
 down. The graphics and ragdolls are probably the best features of the game, but the plot tries 
 to hard to be like the original.
  At some points the game can be fun, but eventually gets repetitive. The weapons are crap and when 
 you "modify" them they actually seem to get worse. The Characters are shallow and even though most 
 of them are fighting half the time they have practically identical viewpoints. This game was either 
 going to be really good or really bad. It ended up being really bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up for 10 dollars figuring what the hell it cant be that bad but found the game 
 to be very fun and unique. The game has you making choices depending on which faction you want 
 to help reminding me of KOTOR. Depending on your choice the other faction will think less of you 
 or even send people to kill you. The game seemed more like a role playing game then an action game 
 the way you get biomods to increase certain skills and some of them are very useful while others 
 I never really wanted to use. You can interact with most everything in the environment which is 
 a nice touch. Its a lot of fun throwing bodies at walls and watching them crumble over in different 
 ways each time. The graphics are very good for a game that came out 2003 with shadows cast over 
 peoples faces and the environment. The levels all have a blue hue to them it seems. I might be 
 wrong but the game had a really good sense of atmosphere making you feel like you were really there. 
 The sound and music does its job well. The music is soft most of the time and some of it is really 
 good. The game took me about 10 hours to finish but there is replay value here because depending 
 on your choices you get a different ending. I served the WTO faithfully throughout the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paranoyia
Rating: 2.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Prologue.
  
  First of all: I am a HUGE Deus Ex fan. And I mean it. I'll tell you later why the first one was 
 so good, now I feel more like spraying dirt on its successor, or should I say unsuccessor?
  
  Deus Ex ***HEAVY SPOILERS of the original Deus Ex ending***
  
  Ok, as JC you succesfully 
 become a "Deus Ex Machina", an electronic god from a machine, by fusioning your mind with the Helios 
 A. I. (my favourite ending, a choice of a wiseman ;)
  
  Or returned the humanity into the middle ages by destroying the Aquinas Hub in Area51. (you'd be 
 a very dumb an hypocrite person if you took that ending and liked it)
  
  Or become the Illuminati pawn, by assasinating Bob Page. (not a very bright ending as well in my 
 humble opinion, but acceptable I guess)
  
  New Deus Ex merged those three endings into a single one. So the world is in its darkest ages with 
 a  to clean all this mess 
 up. Makes little sense, doesn't it? Why exactly you ask? Because all of those three possible endings 
 conflict each other as christianity, satanism and atheism do in real life, without any chance for 
 redemption or compromise.
  
  Deus Ex Reloaded?
  
  You wake up as Alex D. , male or female (thanx god this name is in the unisex cathegory) . You can 
 choose your avatar's gender as well as few avaiable faces. But that's just about it when almost 
 all the character customisation ends. 
  
  First of all what's beginning to kill the game from the first steps are its claustrophobic enviroments. 
 It truly is a "boxed" shooter this time. Nothing to compare to the original Deus Ex, which had 
 huge amount of open spaces and thus a huge room for a creative mind. The ways to complete your 
 goals are just about as limited in the second Deus Ex as they were variable in the first one. It 
 doesn't really matter which way you choose. You can blow up a door, or open it. Makes no diffirence. 
 No one will ever notice a blown door, no guards will try to make one huge cotellette out of your 
 pretty face. The A. I. wasn't the strongest point of the first DEx, second one lacks it completely. 
 And this time the enemies are much lessened in numbers I must say, 3-4 times less to be exact, 
 which makes it not very challenging lightly said.
  
  RPG system is almost abscent here as well. A little amount of NPC interaction is all what had been 
 left of a former glory. All you can do to improve your character is choose a few biomods and install 
 them, plus add two possible upgrades to your gun. That's it. Skills have been cut short this time...
 
  
  Cool cyberpunk-rogue gameplay had been replaced with a parody to a cyberpunk-rogue gameplay. Remember 
 those cool possiblities to hack comps and do all kinds of stuff with it, simply being able to use 
 security pannels by typing in the code. Well now you can't do neither of it. You can still hack 
 that's true. But this time you really need to hack by a biomod (!!!) . Or obtain a code. You can't 
 enter it anymore. Playing around with the terminals is also very limited. Bleh. That's no rogue, 
 people! Battle is even less dynamic as the first DEx. World provides less information on what is 
 going on. Disastarous, simply disastarous.
  
  The story-line isn't all that intersting either. You just jump from one corner of the world to 
 another and back again with no motivation what so ever. Everybody's trying to kill you and at the 
 same time to convice you to join their cause. Only JC is to trust in all this madness. You can't 
 even trust yourself, trust me on this. JC's ending is the only sane one.
  
  Characters aren't all that bad I must say. Alex D. is interesting in particular. All the characters 
 taken over from the original are nicely done as well. Others as Leo and that helicopter chick, 
 forgot her name are cool too.
  
  Now. Sound. Oh, my god! Remember the master musical compositions
  in the original DEx! They have 
 been replaced by a plain ambient this time!!! Oh, my. That's one of the reasons the first DEx was 
 so great!!! And they cut it too!!! If I don't stop talking about the music here, I'm going to have 
 to slide to the censorship, so let's leave it here. Voice acting isn't all that bad though, that's 
 why I gave 3 to sound actually. But if there was a possibility to give points to voice acting I 
 would have given it all 8, so good was it. Although JC has defenately changed in voice, must be 
 all that adolescence he's going through with Helios sitting at the back of his head.
  
  Graphix isn't bad. Though the performance is waiting for a serious make-over. Even on a high-end 
 PC it becomes a merciless slide-show at some places.
  
  Deus Ex Revolutions!
  
  DEx changed. And changed badly. From a spectacular feast of a mind and eye into a poor ghetto back 
 alley. It cannot be saved. If it wasn't labled with a severe "Deus Ex" brand, it would have made 
 a mediocre cyberpunk-wanna-be shooter. But it is labled with this brand and it has to suffer the 
 consiquences and be sereously punished for such a sloppy job. Shoot on sight. Fire at will. Don't 
 let it get away. Inquisite it in any way you can. Let the witchhunt begin! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advo02
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  To this day I consider the original Deus Ex game one of the greatest of all time. Obviously this 
 is my personal opinion (and as it happens the opinion of most other people who have played the 
 game) but it truly was a one of a kind experience. It went much deeper than just a guy with a bunch 
 of weapons going around blowing things up. It had a story and characters that you really got into. 
 Deus Ex: Invisible War tries to live up to this standard, and almost gets there, but unfortunately 
 it falls short of greatness.
  
  The graphics, as with the last game, are still excellent. I enjoyed the interface and the cut-scenes 
 a great deal, and quite frankly the surrounding environment of each and every level has a very 
 authentic feel. The soundtrack, which was a huge factor in the last game, is not as amazing as 
 in Deus Ex, but as far I'm concerned its still top-notch. The ease of gameplay was drastically 
 increased in this game as well, as most of the biomods are always active, meaning you don't have 
 to continually try to move, fire, and activate the biomods at the same.
  
  The reason I don't rate this game in the top-echelon is because of the storyline and, consequently, 
 its effect on the length of the game. I have played through and beaten Deus Ex II three times now, 
 and each time the game seems shorter and shorter. The last time I played it took me approximately 
 15 hours to beat it, which is probably 5 to 10 hours shorter than it takes me to beat Deus Ex. 
 The biggest reason for this, however, is the storyline, which simply doesn't live up to the intrigue 
 which exists in the original. Each level can be progressed through with relative ease, and the 
 plot doesn't often get complicated but every once in a while. And although you have choices in 
 the game, you're almost steered into going one particular direction every time, as the other options 
 just don't make sense. I think a more free-form decision-making process would have helped, as well 
 as a more drawn-out plot, but I must say that the programmers definitely tried their hardest.
 
  
  In conclusion, I do still recommend this game and consider it worth your money. I have had lots 
 of fun playing it and think, in many ways, it has advanced the Deus Ex series. If I had to pick 
 between the two, I'd still take the good old original Deus over its sequel, but this series will 
 always be near and dear to my heart.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StphnSlam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game that will take a fair few hours to complete and has the added bonus of 
 having several endings depending on what actions you take during the game. The graphics are excellent 
 and so is the voice acting. As of the time of this review the game is quite old and can now be 
 bought on internet auction sites and in the second hand department of most game shops for just 
 a few pounds. This is a game I would highly recommend for fans of first person shooters and strategy 
 games alike. My only gripe, and it is a small one, is that during the game there seems to be an 
 awful lot of techno babble spoken between the characters, which can tend to confuse the proceedings 
 a little. 
  My only problem is that I have just finished this game and there is nothing else out there quite 
 like it ....... shame! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Invisible War is the second part of the Deus Ex trilogy. The graphics are better than the first 
 but this seems too different. I like it but I don't. The first one had a great storyline while 
 this one has a decent one. The first one let you use more biomods while this one gives you only 
 five or six. The reason I purchased Deus Ex Invisible War was because I really liked the storyline 
 and gameplay and I found this for only ten or fifteen dollars. I can't really stick up for Deus 
 Ex Invisible War and I also can't really say anything really negative about it. It is fun and it 
 is also pretty long, but if you want the true Deus Ex experience then I recommend buying the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkoho
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  I've been reading some of the other reviews on this site and I have to strongly disagree with them. 
 Everybody is complaining that it had nothing to do with the first one. WHO CARES! Did Quake 3 have 
 anything to do with the other two? NO! And they were ALL great games. You have to appreciate it 
 as a seperate game regardless if it is a sequel or not.
  I would have to say that this is one of the first games that actually kept me interested the entire 
 time I was playing it. There were quite a few bugs in the game but what game doesn't?
  The graphics were decent but kind of bland. A little bit of variety would have been nice instead 
 of every wall in the game being the same color. They definitely went overboard with the physics 
 in this game though. I don't know too many games where you can pick up just about anything in the 
 level and chuck it way across the room regardless of how heavy it is. 
  All in all this was a great game to play and I really enjoyed playing through it. I only played 
 through once though so I only received one of the 5 endings. Hopefully I'll get around to playing 
 it a few more times. If you haven't played it I would suggest buying it. My friend picked this 
 up at EB games for $5 bucks. Not sure if it was used or not, but that is a great deal anyway you 
 look at it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  When I finished playing Deus-Ex 1 for the first time, I immediatley started playing a new game 
 just that I can go over places I have not been to, and do side quests I missed in the first attempt 
 through the game and of course try another ending. Back then when I played it, this game was unique, 
 as a matter of fact until today it is quite a unique genere. Being an action/RPG hi-tech game. 
 Dont remember seing anything like it anywhere (on PC that is...)
  As time passed, 2002, 2003... the Deus Ex 2 hype was really out there. I was thrilled, as I was 
 really expecting nothing but more of the same super-pleasure of the first game. As you know that 
 game was very successfull on it's first platform, the consoles.
  
  Unfortunately, when this game came out for the PC version, I cannot say that the excitement was 
 remotely close to the excitement of the console version. Many people including me, found out that 
 this game lags on PC. Simply put, like playing a slide show. So in that time more or less I upgraded 
 my PC to 2003 hardware. Still the game did not run smooth. I lowered settings and even resolution 
 down to 800*600. Still the game simpy would not play right. I found it hard to move around and 
 focus on things, pick up stuff and basically anything that has interaction with the environment... 
 A true disappointment.
  I played the game for around 1 hour, I felt I had to at least give it a chance. But no, it simply 
 was not playable.
  
  It is a shame that due to poor performance this game suffered so much from the PC gamer community. 
 Also, this game you really feel lie a bionic being with that HUD always on top. In the first you 
 did not have this element.
  
  I am not going to go over the regular aspects such as graphics, sound and gameplay because they 
 are all diminished and they all suffer from the first reason I mentioned. 
  
  Even today when I own a 2005 hardware PC I am not going to give this one a try again. I think that 
 some game successes simply put, cannot be cloned and calling a game by the same name and giving 
 it a numerical successor, surely does not promise anything.
  
  Hopefully games like this one will not be released, ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 27, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  I played Deus Ex and when I heard Deus Ex 2 was going to be released in the near future I was thrilled. 
 Little did I know then that the sequel had nothing to do with what the first Deus Ex was all about.
 
  
  Maybe it is an acceptable game from some point of views, but considering this is the sequels to 
 the great Deus Ex that makes this crappy sequel a piece of JUNK.
  
  First of all, the game is choppy even on high end systems (Athlon64 3000+, GF6600GT Extreme) , even 
 though the demo works fine on a 700mhz processor with a GF4TI 4200 with all the details at maximum...
 
  
  The sound is ok, but the level design is kind of static (like corridors) , with many loading times 
 (short levels) .
  
  Second of all, the story is rather bad and what the hell is that IDIOTICAL HUD?
  
  Thirdly, 
 the gameplay is really BAD. Let me spell it for you: B-A-D. Really, really awful. It's pretty continuous, 
 as in... obvious... and when you use picklocks it doesn't give the sensation that you're sneaking. 
 Also, What the hell is that purple lightning picklock? It's freakin' stupid.
  
  The game is too easy and the gameplay itself is too stupid. The first Deus Ex was and still IS 
 A LOT BETTER then this lame excuse for a game, a worthless piece of junk.
  
  DO NOT BUY IT.
  
  Also, if you played the first Deus Ex and liked it - DO NOT BUY the sequel 
 and if someone gave it to you for free (like as a present) - BURN IT.
  
  How the HELL did this game get a 8.0 score??? BURN IT AND KILL THE RETARDED DESIGNERS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerk_1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  This is truly an excellent game with many different aspects. Dissapointing in some ways in that 
 it is shorter than it's predecessor and has no multiplayer. You take command of a character Alex 
 D (who can be male or female) and are almost instantly hurled into a world of conspiracy and lies. 
 Using a mixture of role-playing, fighting and stealth you must uncover the plot and, in the end 
 choose you own path. One of the few games I've come across where there are endings. Not good endings 
 not bad endings, just endings. You have to choose which you think is right.
  
  Gameplay 9: Very enjoyable after a while but may confuse some people as it looks like a first-person 
 shooter which it is but has an amazing amount of role-playing and stealth which not all are used 
 to. Controls are also very sharp 
  
  Graphics 9: Overall brilliant but tries to be perfect and isn't. No clipping but lip-synch is appauling.
 
  
  Sound 7: Very good. Voices of characters are clear. No music except for the title screen (which 
 is good but not as good as original) Weapon noises are nothing special.
  
  Out-of-the-Ordinary 10: One of the best things about the game is that it's out-of-the-ordinary. 
 The fact that you can choose different endings and complete different objectives gives you a lot 
 more freedom than in most FPSs. Some of the conspiracy theories etc. also make it exceptionally 
 unique.
  
  Singleplayer 9: The whole game is singleplayer.
  
  Multiplayer N/A: There is no multiplayer! A huge flaw, particularly these days.
  
  Overall 
 9: It is a good game, not without it's flaws but nothing too wrong with it except for it's shortness 
 although still longer than most games released these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgarribaldi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The trouble with writing a game that has 3 endings is that when you produce a sequel, it is difficult 
 to decide which ending to follow up and continue with. Deus-Ex has three playable endings and Invisible 
 War has 4, which means that writing sequels that are acceptable and pleasing to everybody is going 
 to be an almost impossible task.
  
  With Invisible War, the game writers have taken the main theme that JC Denton has merged with the 
 Helios entity in the previous game and the world has suffered a general collapse because of it. 
 Around this main thread they have woven sub-plots which integrate elements from the other two Deus-Ex 
 endings and have continued the analogies throughout the main game.
  
  This is all well and good, and actually works very well, however I do feel a little cheated as 
 I actually preferred to play out a different ending in Deus-Ex, and there is a certain discontinuity 
 between that and the starting of the sequel.
  
  However, that is just my own personal opinion, although I do wonder if Ion Storm had considered 
 making three seperate sequels to Deus-Ex, each one continuing from one of the three possible endings. 
 This would have been a sound market strategy which would have given them the opportunity to profit 
 from three more games and could possibly have avoided the now sad demise of a very popular software 
 house.
  
  Anyway, on to the game itself. You play the character of Alex D and, after a few preliminary conversations 
 and "training" sequences, you are immediately thrown into a minor skirmish with a group called 
 The Order, who are attacking the academy in which you are training. This is the first time you 
 get to meet your fellow trainees Billie Adams, Alex Jankowski and Clara Sparks. They all play a 
 mojor role in the game and you get to interact with them at various points throughout.
  
  During the game you get to pick up clues about your past and about the academy, and soon learn 
 that there are several factions involved including the good old Illuminati. The newer factions 
 are the WTO, Apostle Core and The Order. The Knights Templar make a more prominent appearance/.
 
  
  The order is a development from Deus-Ex and is led by none other that Nicollette DuClare. The WTO 
 is led by Chad Dumier, another character from Deus-Ex, the leader of the Illuminati whom who you 
 helped in France.
  
  I won't mention the Illuminati too much, because it will be a bit of a spoiler but needless to 
 say that they are still meddling with the affairs of the people.
  The Knights Templar have been developed a bit further to cause disruption, and Apostle Core is 
 a new addition who have a very interesting background (again not giving anything away.)
  
  Like Deus-Ex you get to travel around the world a bit in Invisible War, visiting such places as 
 Egypt and Trier in Germany. I was a little disappointed at the rendering of the helicopter and 
 lack of scene-outs which were present in Deus-Ex but this doesn't detract too much from the atmosphere.
 
  
  The main game thread, as already mentioned, follows the continuation of JC Denton's merging with 
 the Helios Entity and at some point you will meet his brother Paul Denton (who DOES survive from 
 the Deus-Ex game, it IS possible to rescue him from the 'Ton Hotel) , and even Tracer Tong makes 
 an appearance.
  
  One thing to keep in mind is that you need to be VERY careful who you ally yourself with. Like 
 the original Deus-Ex game you can change loyalty and work for different factions throughout the 
 game. Unlike Deus-Ex you actually have a choice in Invisible War of who you want to work for, and 
 can change sides between all of the factions as much as you like, sometimes right in the middle 
 of a mission. This makes for a very interesting game-play.
  
  You may find that you start a mission for one faction, get part way through, change sides and then 
 have to battle your way out through a dozen or so troops (or even an entire level) that had no 
 quarrel with you when you started, just because you changed sides. This can make for some diverse 
 game-play and opens the possibility of playing the game several times over and never having the 
 same experience twice.
  
  It is possible to play right through to the end without killing anybody (for any pacificst amongst 
 you) , and it is possible to actually progress without completing certain missions, thus keeping 
 your loyalties carefully neutral throughout.
  
  Having reached a certain point near the end you are presented with a choice of uploading a critical 
 piece of data to one of three factions via an Aquinas Router Hub. From this point onwards you can 
 play out any of the three scripted endings regardless of how you played and who you worked for 
 to get here. It is a "last chance" to decide where your loyalties really lie. From this point you 
 get to play out three short but quite deadly endgames.
  Oh, wait a minute... I said earlier that there were 4 endings... and so there are. Before the final 
 decision you are given a fourth ending by an old colleague which gives you an opportunity to not 
 play out any of the three scripted endings. I won't spoil anything...
  
  Graphically the game is very pleasing although for some of the higher detail and shadow options 
 you do need a fairly powerful graphics card and a reasonably fast processor. My old GForce 4 won't 
 cut it any more. The unreal engine has been tweaked very nicely and in places it doesn't feel quite 
 as "dark" as Deus-Ex did and the sky-boxes are stunning in places. There is not so much of the 
 "Unreal Tournament" texturing present either so overall not a bad job. Object details are quite 
 good if you can crank them up high enough and "weapon-bob" is a definite improvement.
  
  Gameplay can be set to various levels but don't affect things too much apart from reducing money, 
 affecting skill-levels and increasing an AI or two, the same as Deus-Ex. Response can be a little 
 laggy if you set the screen-resolution too high or the character details and shadowing too high, 
 but if you have a powerful pc then no problems here. Aiming has been improved! (No more "ouch..." 
 when hit point blank with a bullet! You actually get to kill someone when you hit them now!!!)
 
  
  Ammo works a little differently as you now have one common ammo clip for ALL weapons. Not something 
 I agree with as I prefer different ammo for different weapons but it seems to integrate fairly 
 well.
  
  I must admit that, compared to the original, I was a little disappointed in this sequel but it 
 has grown on me. After playing it several times (different loyalties each time) and trying out 
 different strategies it has a certain appeal but I feel it still lacks something of the original. 
 Maybe the futuristic type weapons instead of the old-fashioned rifles and pistols, maybe the different 
 game atmosphere, maybe the lack of scripted background material and the lack of "extended" conversational 
 diversity that Deus-Ex had if you continued talking with the AIs. I can't put my finger on it. 
 It doesn't have the same "conspiratorial" feel to it.
  
  This game will grow on you and overall I would rate it fairly high but I would suggest you play 
 the original Deus-Ex, just to see what you have missed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platinumpt
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  After playing the first Deus Ex, about one month ago, it became imperative for me to try out its 
 sequel, Invisible War.
  
  Well, it's hard to review this game, because it's almost impossible to do so without comparing 
 it to its ancestor, Deus Ex. If we think of Deus Ex - Invisible War as an individual game, with 
 no connections whatsoever to previous games, I'd classify it as a poor and boring game. However, 
 if we think of it as a sequel, things get even worse. Let's see.
  
  It's amazing how this game generates in me the exactly opposite sensations generated by Deus Ex; 
 while the first one is intriguing, this one is confusing. While Deus Ex is immersive, Invisible 
 War is repulsive. And finally, while the first one was long, but in the end it left me begging 
 for more missions, Invisible War is short, but I felt a huge relief when it was finally over. Really.
 
  
  Storyline:
  The storyline has potential, definitely. It explores some very interesting ideas that are really 
 related to the nature of the human being. It's hard to say more without spoiling the story, so 
 I'll just say one thing: I loved the principle that was behind the creation of The Order and WTO. 
 I really did. It might sound strange reading this without playing the game, but I can't afford 
 to say more without spoiling it. However, things get mixed up real fast. There are times you have 
 so many goals to accomplish on your menu, that you don't know anymore why are you doing that, or 
 who gave you the order to do so. It can get really confusing. In my opinion you get everything 
 thrown at you at once, without giving you the time to think over the things that are happening. 
 And this is because the missions are too short, taking you very few time to accomplish your goals. 
 Another very interesting thing about the storyline, and I RECOMMEND you STOP reading if you still 
 haven't played the first Deus Ex, is that the game creators decided to start this game in a point 
 where there is a mix of all alternate endings in the first Deus Ex. At the time you start playing, 
 JC has indeed merged with Helios, but he also killed Bob Page and destroyed Area51, which were 
 the objectives given to you by the Illuminati and Tracer Tong respectively. And it's always nice 
 to see familiar faces again, like Tracer Tong and others.
  
  Gameplay:
  It kinda sucks. You have so little options when compared to the first one. You come through lots 
 and lots of computers and keypads, but the solution always ends up being hacking the computers 
 and "multitooling" the keypads. It's disappointing. And there's another thing, in this game doing 
 this kind of stuff doesn't feel sneaky at all. I really don't know why, maybe because it feels 
 so futuristic. In the 1st Deus Ex, breaking into a closed door, or hacking a computer really gave 
 you that spy-feeling. Maybe because it was a darker ambience, who knows. And then, there's the 
 biomods. They feel cheap. I didn't like it. It's very easy to get biomods and weapon upgrades. 
 In fact, I think it's a little too easy. In the first one you really had to explore everything, 
 and you took lots of time to get new biomods and weapon upgrades. In this one, I finished the game 
 with 15 unused biomod canisters. It's not satisfying. You don't have to sweat at all to get those 
 upgrades, which takes away all the fun of the videogame, in my opinion. The only challenging thing 
 about the gameplay was the jumping and crouching thing. The physics engine is so horrible that 
 it might take you an awful lot of time to use a box to jump over a wall.
  
  Graphics:
  They're okay. The scenario feels a little to big, but that's not a bad thing. Painkiller felt big 
 too, and it's a great game. However, you get this sensation you're always inside a confined place, 
 even when you're playing outside, and that's BAD. Cairo, for instance, is horrible. The streets 
 are awfully small and stretched, it looks like the programmers didn't even make the slightest effort 
 to make it look real. And on top of all this, it still gave a lot of trouble to my graphics card. 
 It's incredible how FEAR on 1024x768 performs better than Deus Ex Invisible War on 800x600, in 
 my Geforce 6600GT. Honestly.... what else can I say?
  
  Sound:
  It's okay. Too bad we don't have a great intro music, like the one we had on the first Deus Ex. 
 Damn, I compared both games again. It's inevitable. The voice acting is better than the first Deus 
 Ex I think, but not much better. It's also a pity that the guy that made JC's voice on the first 
 game isn't here anymore... the new one talks like a sissy. Doesn't feel cyborg at all.
  
  In the end, I regret I spended money on this one. It's your choice, but if I was given the chance 
 to turn back time, I'd have left this one on the shelf and kept the money on my pocket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm hearing a lot of people saying that this game freezes and glitches. Well, install the patch 
 then it's a lot more entertaining. Actually it nevered freezed on me even if I didn't have the 
 patch. But anyways, I love this game. The story fits throughly from the last one. Although the 
 gameplay isn't like the original. I mean your health bar takes more damage, less augumentations, 
 less items, and some weapons are completely useless. But it's an fun and all game. I mean still 
 has the great voice acting, but not the best character acting. But what I still love about this 
 game that still has from the original. You know when you talk to a person in the conversation in 
 the game. You can choose what you say. And whatever you choose comes a different consequence. I 
 love that in the deus ex series. I also like when you come across some old characters from the 
 the first deus ex. Like chad, nicolette, jc denton and paul denton. Although two of them I hate. 
 
  
  The graphics I give a good rating because what really amazed me is that this game is the very first 
 lighting I seen. When I saw the lighting and the special effects I thought wow pretty cool. That's 
 why I give graphics a 9. The value in this game depends what you feel like . I played over the 
 game 3 times to find every secret and see everyones reactions. Yes.... yes I have a life ;) . But 
 some people would last maybe 3 days or 5 on the game. But I love this game so doesn't matter what 
 other people think. What I think... I think is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcr_82
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  i dont know what it was about the first but i just couldnt wait for the second. once it came out 
 i was happy.... for the five days i spent on it. adding some very nice upgrade features. i will 
 admit that the story did peak my interest. vast improvement on graphic and settings and some enemies 
 stimulated my mind as i gave my all to use as little ammunition and energy as possible, but it 
 lacked something. i think the first was more difficult then the offspring. it was aninteresting 
 sequel but too short in my opinion... i just needed something more i just wish i waited before 
 i spent the full price and used all that space on my compy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radrobby
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  This game was really fun, but there were a few things that made game-play a little laborious (if 
 I dare say) . The thing is, there is no quick-save or quick-load. Every time you die it takes you 
 to the main menu and you have to do a full load. The other thing is that the maps are pretty small. 
 In a single area (lets say Cairo) the map is divided into different parts and if you want to go 
 to the greenhouse, you have to load the map, and if you forgot to pick up some ammo off a dead 
 guy, you have to go back and reload the other map and then reload the greenhouse and so on. On 
 each level you have to load several different maps to complete your missions. The truth about the 
 game is that its a great game. The plot and storyline are intriguing and the way that the game 
 lets you make choices is pretty cool. The graphics are pretty nice and some of the problems that 
 a lot of first person shooters have are bot present in this game. Really the game is fun to play 
 and is very challenging. If you liked the first Deus Ex, then I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eusoudobenfica
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:27 am PT
Review:  Well, I dont understant why some people say so bad about this game . I think the first one in 
 the series was worth a 10. Thats the reason why I gave this one a 9. Its not so good as the other 
 one but nevertheless great. I believe Ive got a very good system (Asus A8V MB, Saphirus ATI X800 
 GT, 1 Gb Mem and a AMD Athlon 64 3.5 Gh  8% overclocked - I started playing FEAR with everything 
 set to maximum and WOW!!!) and all I can say is the game runs perfect and smooth (all video options 
 at highest level) . Great graphics an above all great immersive story. Go for it and don't give 
 up. The more you play the more you'll like and get involved in it ! Only one complaint: I was kicked 
 out twice during gameplay after reloading a saved game. But this is only a minor bug comparing 
 to how great this game is. One advice: forget about Intel, it just was... but not anymore... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 24, 2005 9:19 am PT
Review:  
  Well i'm going to start by summarising with some pros and cons.
  
  Pros, as i've mentioned deus ex invisible war is one of the few games of its type and personally 
 I think its a great formula (adventure/RPG/FPS) , though there aren't really any examples of it 
 being pulled off prefectly. If you've played Deus Ex then you can expect more of the same, though 
 shorter, the gameplay meshes together fairly well and Is enjoyable.
  
  Cons, there are lots of these though nothing show stopping. The game is fairly short and easy, 
 I am left feeling that alot more should of been done in building on Deus ex but invisible war seems 
 more like an extended addon pack. Alot more could have been done with the RPG element of the game 
 which feels stunted, your inventory is small, which isnt always a bad thing in a game but it just 
 becombes annoying here, the stats/skill progression elements have been removed and the biomods 
 are few and dont impact the gameplay in a massive way.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game plays well though it is easy and and some of the map areas are used too extensively. Anything 
 electronic like bots or cameras become very easy to deal with pretty quickly, a few biomods and 
 you can see these though walls and with the magrail gun you can shoot an EMP blast though walls.. 
 toast. The only chanllenging opponents that can't be taken down with a sniper shot to the head 
 are the Templar special units. 
  The plot is easy to follow though there are many factions, your alleigance will probably switch 
 about 1/2 dozen times in the game.
  
  Graphics
  Well these aren't really a world apart from the original, you certainly expect more concidering 
 the release date. Graphics dont make a game though and these are adequate.
  
  Sound
  Sound seems fine, nothing special but no problems either, once again not too different from the 
 original.
  
  Value
  well I enjoyed the game and it came free with my graphics card, probably worth buying on budget 
 if you liked the original.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt
  The game isn't really all that "great" but I played it all the way though and enjoyed it which 
 is more than can be said for an awful lot of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Very much like the orignal game, just another story line and a new interface design layout.
  
  NEW WEAPONS and new female to chat to.
  
  Flirting game.
  
  Good points about the game
 
  
  Now on DVD and not CD.
  
  you get to choose what path to take, 3 forces to join, depend how you act in the game, the story 
 line changes to you reaction.
  
  The world is full of conspiracy and lies, Trust no one execept for yourself in the game.
  
 
  Dont let the babes change your way in thinking.
  Its a blokes game but can be played by women, but they will take all the short cuts.
  
  Sorry, 
 i loved this game, but justnever finished it.
  
  Destroying all the radios and electrical devices which slows the others from finding you.
  More 
 face on then the first game, meaning that you have to mix in with the crowd of people in the streets.
 
  The original game, there was plenty of hiding so you dont get seen.
  
  All in all a fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm sick of people whining and complaining about this game. And then you get the annoying nerds 
 who just HAVE to show their system specs, because they think people will think they're cool people. 
 NOBODY CARES! This game is a great experience. It isn't as good as the original, I'll admit that 
 right now, because while it retains it's RPG elements, they've been really watered down. The story 
 isn't bad, it also has several endings, like it's predecessor. Most seem pretty rewarding too. 
 There are lots of ways to solve each problem, and tons of side-missions, though some may seem like 
 just filler. There is a wide arsenal of futuristic weaponry, and many weapons can be upgraded, 
 like the original.
  Now let's get down to the graphic department, because alot of you complain about that, and it's 
 performance.
  I thought that back when this came out, it looked great, especially the great lighting effects. 
 Even today I think it looks nice, especially on a high resolution screen. Also, though it has little 
 to do with the graphics, the physics are fun and pretty realistic as well. To be honest, it was 
 the first game I really played that showed cool ragdoll physics. Also, it's fun to throw crap around, 
 and at people.
  The AI is okay, though the enemies can be searching for you, and forget about you as if they had 
 alzheimers. 
  But anyway, let's talk about the performance. Alot of people complain about performance, in just 
 about ANY game, and while they may have a high-end system, the game still lags. This could be from 
 many problems, such as spyware. I'm not gonna get into all my system specs, but I ran this game 
 when I got it, over a year ago. And even then, my system wasn't the best. I played it on a Dell 
 Laptop (the Gen 1 XPS) with a simple 256MB vid card, with a typical P4 processor, and with just 
 under a GB of RAM. I never EVER had any slowdown, I could run at a solid framerate and enjoy the 
 game, even without getting all the new patches for it. 
  I'm hoping if somebody reads this, they will at least try the demo. And you can even buy it in 
 some stores, brand new, for sometimes under $10, so if you don't like it, it isn't like you really 
 lost out on much. And while it may not be as good as the original, if you are a fan, you owe it 
 to yourself to at least try it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:34 am PT
Review:  After having played the original Deus Ex I couldn't wait for this sequal to come out. The game 
 picks up several years after the end of the original. The story is interesting as it seems to incorporate 
 pieces of each of the alternate endings from the original story, whether directly or just as an 
 indirect reference. The game's graphics are great. The interface is new and they definitely did 
 a plus by allowing you to change your biomods during gameplay. You pick up as the younger brother 
 (or sister) of JC & Paul Denton. The nice thing about this is the original story actually shows 
 Alex Denton as one of the clones in a stasis or incubation tube. Seeing them keeping to the story 
 line is a nice touch. I don't think the story is quite as tight as the original, but it's none 
 too shabby. It allows you to interact with many of the characters from the original game, including 
 the main character from the original, JC Denton himself. If you've played Deus Ex and liked it, 
 then Invisible War is definitely something you should check out. This game is a very good game 
 as a stand alone choice, and many who played the original will still love it as a continuation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenton
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Know 2 things that i thought of as i came into this review
  1. I liked the orginal.
  2. I didnt let the orginal change my opinon on this game.
  
  Well this id Deus Ex: invisible 
 war. Graphics and sound are amazing. The Graphics are the best i had seen up untill the time i 
 played the game. The lighting effects are one of a kind. The sound is just as good. It takes from 
 the cyberpunk image, fast and terbulint. 
  The gameplay is just as good. Alouthough this is more of a First person shooter than a rpg like 
 its predessor. That doesnt stop it from playing right. The skill system from the orginal have been 
 deleted, and the biomods feel more effective and less rpg like. Instead of having stupid biomods 
 like a slow moving camera-eye or a auqalung that hardly helps during the entire game, you get a 
 fast moving camera-eyeball, super strength, and healing abilities.
  The value alone forces you to buy this game. You could find this one for under 10$us. Buy it now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldog19892
Rating: 4.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't even seem finished. The graphics are good but it's so choppy and slow (even on 
 a fast computor like mine) that it's hard to appriciate them. 
  
  The story of the game is sort of stupid, it's like a 14 year old made it up in math class. It's 
 not deep and complex, and there's no emotional ties with a character that make their deaths significant. 
 If Paul or JC dies, so what? In the first game when Paul is killed it actually got you to say "oh 
 my god" and when you find out that UNATCO was behind it, you're surprised, but in this game you 
 have no real affiliation to anyone. You're like a free agent. The first game had a more mature 
 kind of story in which revenge, hate, conspiracy, and criminal acts are prominent and powerful, 
 this game is like a kid show.
  
  The low frame rate makes the gameplay bad too, since you can't really react to anything quickly. 
 Basically, the low frame rate and bad story bring down pretty much everything about the game. It 
 has it's good parts, but the bad outdoes the good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGryphon
Rating: 2.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 10:39 pm PT
Review:  What can I say but......... BLAH!
  
  Weapons and ammo: weapons use WAY too much ammo, and ammo is more than difficult to find. impossible 
 to scavenge ammo from dropped weapons, not to mention dropped weapons that SHOULD have ammo but 
 don't .
  Then there is the HUD .......... who had the brain cramp on this ?
  not only is it useless, it obscures your sight (even when the opacity is adjusted to prevent this) .
 
  
  The inventory, 12 ITEMS ONLY ?! granted some of them stack, but still.... I should be able to carry 
 extra ammo without using a slot AND there is no reason to pick up a weapon to gather it's ammo 
 only to have it take a slot and turn out to be a useless grab anyway.
  
  All in all, I find Deus Ex: the invisible war to be more than a little disappointing, the developers 
 should have chosen to stick with making it an FPS or RPG...... not a combo of both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 18, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex: Invisible War should have been Deus Ex: Invisible Game. The author played the original 
 Deus Ex with zealous many times. There is virtually only three ways to end the first game and one 
 has to kill at least two of the characters in the game to completion. The much awaited sequel leaves 
 much to be desired. Theoretically, one could complete the game without ever killing one character. 
 That's not my style. I believe the publisher; Eidos was trying to pass along a message to young 
 players that violence is not always the solution. Hey, it is a GAME for crying out loud. I am playing 
 to "spray and pray", with all-out excitement. Instead the gamer gets - BORING!!!
  
  Granted it may rave as an RPG. One can not progress without taking sides. This game is just a hyped-up 
 version of the old System Shock 2 that came out in 1998. Join sides and we will help you. Take 
 sides with a coffee company, now there is an exciting option. In fact the author got so tied-up 
 in taking sides with petty clans that the main missions of the game became clouded. After setting 
 the game aside for a while, the author forgot what alliances were previously made. The end may 
 become a free-for-all. The author even killed my brother (J. C. Denton from the original game) . 
 One interesting aside is that one can choose male or female play by the face in the main options, 
 thus accounting for the unisex name of the main character.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aggie1295
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 18, 2005 6:25 am PT
Review:  As its own game, I enjoyed playing Deus Ex: Invisible War. The story and gameplay kept me interested 
 and playing for long periods at a time. However, compared to the original Deus Ex, I was disappointed. 
 I didn't mind the simpler interface that a lot of people have complained of, and it really didn't 
 bother me to not have to change different ammunitions for each weapon and what not. I wish there 
 could have been more diversity and use of the characters abilities however. My biggest disappointment 
 was with the story. I think they tried too hard to make each faction in the game an equal so that 
 a player could choose any particular side. But to me this made the story kind of on the bland side. 
 In the original game, I always felt I was trying to solve a mystery, and you could always see at 
 least who the bad guys were. In Invisible War, none of the sides are really that good, but none 
 of them are really villains either. I felt it didn't really matter what I did, that no good side 
 was going to win anyway. I was also very disappointed with how they treated the hero of the previous 
 game. I loved Deus Ex, and I invested a lot of time playing as that character. To see him turned 
 into just another faction was a big let down. I would have much rather have seen a story that continued 
 the original game. On the gameplay side, a lot of the game didn't seem like much of a challenge. 
 It was interesting and fun to play, but I didn't find the challenge of the first game. My other 
 big gripe is with the load times. The levels were way too small and the load times between level 
 way, way too long, especially for a game that had you going back and forth between levels. With 
 today's PC's, that shouldn't have been happening. All of that being said, I did enjoy Invisible 
 War. I found it fun to play and enjoyed the interaction with the other characters. Overall, it 
 is one of those games that could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosesunkist
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 1, 2005 8:11 am PT
Review:  If you are reading this then you have obviously read many other reviews. To say the least, I was 
 disappointed. After playing the original DX many times waiting for DXIW to come out, I expected 
 it to surpass the original many times over. I went out and bought a new computer and graphics card 
 JUST to play this game. God I felt stupid for doing so after I bought this on the release day. 
 Beat it way too fast, too easy, WAY too dumbed down because is was ported to console. I am becoming 
 infuriated as I type. I liked the new look of the HUD, but the many problems vastly outweighed 
 the good points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 17, 2005 3:11 am PT
Review:  La veritat s que quan comences a jugar no et pots creure les baixes puntuacions que a rebut en 
 general de moltes publicacions, per quan passa una estona te nadones que potser fins i tot han 
 sigut generosos.
  Grficament hagus sigut meravells si no hagussin fallat en la codificaci, i aix fa que el 
 joc shagi de jugar a molt baixes resolucions (640x480) , perqu no va gens fluit, i aix que he 
 jugat en un ordinador en el que el Max Payne 2 lhe jugat a 1600x1200, per que hi farem, em sap 
 molt de greu perqu larquitectura dels grfics s realment espectacular, i el disseny en general 
 tamb encara que al final trobes a faltar una mica de varietat, ja tinc ganes de jugar-lo daqu 
 a uns anys amb les targetes grfiques que hi ahur llavors.
  El so correcte, per la banda sonora espectacular, he mirat de trobar-la per la xarxa i lhe trobada, 
 i s encara millor que la banda sonora del primer.
  B finalment dir que all on ms perd s en la tensi de la trama i la cara de tontos que fan 
 tota la gent amb la que et trobes, aix fa baixar la trempera molt, la veritat s que pots anar 
 matant la gent si vols perqu s bastant fcil i realment en tens ganes de lo tontos que sn, per 
 te nadones que et perdries la part bona del joc, que s jugar inteligentment, entrar als llocs 
 sense ser vist, obrir portes sense clau, o intentar trobar-la, espiar redera la porta amb la visi 
 especial, accedir a llocs secrets i trobar armes, etc.. tot aix s la part guapa del joc, per 
 hagus estat molt millor si shagus aconseguit una major tensi a lhora de jugar.
  Magrada el sistema de millores, i poder triar el teu cam, tamb magrada triar el final, vaig 
 grabar-ho abans del final i vaig fer-los els tres. A ms vaig mirar com es feia per veure el final 
 secret i el vaig fer.
  Per cert, s bastant fcil en general, i me lhe acabat rpidament.
  Al final no quedar en el millor dels meus records, s una llstima hi tenia moltes esperances 
 posades, ara em fa por jugar al Thief 3, espero que no em passi el mateix 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 15, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  Not since John Romero's ill-fated Diakatana has a game been so villified by the PC gaming public. 
 And in the shadow of the original Deus Ex, an undisputed and beloved PC game classic, it certainly 
 pales.
  
  Most people cite certain "streamlining" of gameplay as its biggest mistake, with aspects like varying 
 weapon ammo and hacking activities simplified to accomodate the game's translation to the Xbox 
 console. I, however, didn't find these changes to be the disaster some found them, and the game 
 improves on what was the most compelling aspect of the original; a myriad of ways of completing 
 the missions given to you by the opposing forces in the game. All are out to further their own 
 agendas, and the player can decide who he wants to follow. 
  
  This open-ended gameplay is greatly rewarding. As Alex D., you can take a completely stealthy approach, 
 or go in with guns blazing, or take a combination of the two. And the plot is just as uncomprehensible 
 as its former iteration, with a few more characters to hang the story on. 
  
  Removed from the tremendous hype that surrounded it, Deus Ex: Invisible War is well worth the purchase, 
 post-patch the game looks and plays better than release. It offers a terrifically satisfying experience 
 if one looks past the expectations pinned upon it by the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrplaid
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 10, 2005 8:58 am PT
Review:  I was all set to be disappointed by Deus Ex: Invisible War. I had read many critics' generally 
 positive reviews, but the consensus among those faithful to the original Deus Ex was that Invisible 
 War was a lackluster follow-up. So after nearly a year of hesitation I decided to give a shot, 
 and it turns out it's a pretty good game.
  Invisible War is a lot like the original Deus Ex. Too much, in fact. In spite of being stripped 
 down to its barest gameplay essentials, a lot of problems from the first Deus Ex exist in Invisible 
 war. You spend most of the game talking to various characters and uncovering portions of the fairly 
 dense plot, and that's good. Unfortunately, like in the original Deus Ex, the FPS mechanics just 
 don't work that well. For one thing, most of the environments just aren't conducive to FPS action. 
 Also, enemies, cyborg or not, can take an inordinate amount of punishment before dying. That's 
 probably to cover up for the weak AI. Enemy tactics rarely advance beyond 'stand here and shoot.' 
 There are quite a few weapons in the game, but they all feel underpowered partly because of weak 
 sound effects and partly because enemies can take half a dozen slugs in the face and still feel 
 like fighting. Also, you'll find yourself quickloading a lot because you've whiffed an overly bouncy 
 grenade past your target. Put succinctly, combat is weak and unsatisfying. Of course, you could 
 just go the stealthy route and avoid conflict, but your choice of biomods can make that more of 
 a chore than it's worth.
  The game's new, stripped down, console-ish sensibilities spawn a few different problems all together. 
 At first, your tiny inventory seems like a problem, but you'll learn to live with it as you figure 
 out which items and weapons are worthless. Biomods, your special abilities, are handled in a disappointing 
 way, as well. You use biomod canisters to gain special abilities. You can only ever have five unique 
 biomods at a time, and they occupy certain slots so you're forced to agonize over which ones you 
 want. Do you want to have invisibility or the ability to hack security computers? Having both isn't 
 an option. Luckily, biomod canisters appear with some regularity and you'll probably have couple 
 extra by the end of the game, so you can switch on the fly if the need arises. The skill point/levelling-up 
 system from the first game was axed, as well, killing any sense of progress or advancement you 
 might have felt while playing the original. In spite of being able to level-up your biomods, you 
 feel like the same weenie you were when you started when you reach the end.
  The lame shooting and non-existent character advancement aren't enough to ruin the game, however. 
 Just exploring the detailed envioronments, interacting with the many characters, and accepting 
 a variety of interesting missions make Invisible War a better adventure/RPG than FPS. You can kill 
 pretty much anyone you meet, too, which can alter the course of events in the game. You'll still 
 be railroaded towards an inevitable confrontation, however, just like in the original Deus Ex. 
 You also get to make some KOTOR-like good/evil choices at some points which can affect your faction 
 standing. Sadly, no matter what you choose, you'll be able to redeem yourself to any faction at 
 any time by hurting your standing with an opposing faction. That kind of hurts the replay value.
 
  In conclusion, if you dig a good, decent-sized (12-14 hours) adventure game and can stomach some 
 slightly less-than-average shooting (and visuals that are already starting to show their age) , 
 give Invisible War a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 16, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  I just finished Deus Ex 2. At least that is what the game is labeled as on the box. However, I 
 don't feel like I just played a Deus Ex game. Don't get me wrong, the story was decent and at 20 
 hours to finish, it isn't as short as some games coming out today. But it did not feel like a Deus 
 Ex game. And I think it all comes down to the fact that Eidos was too insistant on making this 
 a console game first, PC port second.
  
  The game starts off with a bang, as you watch the destruction of the entire city of Chicago. That's 
 right, the entire city of Chicago is destroyed by a nano virus of some kind. You then pick your 
 gender, and you are off into the story. You are a student at the Tarsus academy in Seattle. But 
 the training is interrupted by an attack on the school. After working your way out of the school, 
 you will work your way into a intricate, although sometimes confusing storyline that will take 
 you to Cairo, Germany, Antarctica and even back to Liberty Island. There are again multiple endings 
 that you can choose from (four in all) based on your final actions.
  
  If you played the first Deus Ex, you will know that there are three endings that were available 
 for you to complete. The entire storyline is based on taking the Tracer Tong ending, ie the collapse 
 of modern society. Some people return from the first game, in one form or another. You may be a 
 bit confused if you did not play the first game, but it is not absolutely necessary, but helpful.
 
  
  Graphically, the game is rather stunning. Lots of light effects and people look really good. You 
 will definitely need a good graphics card to play this game in high detail. DirectX8.1 or higher 
 at least. My old Geforce5200 got killed by the game, but my Geforce 6800GT handled it with style. 
 Sound is good and ambient noises are well done.
  
  My biggest beef with the game is the fact that the game seems simplified for the consoles that 
 it was released for and the PC players were penalized because of it. The interface while streamlined, 
 lost all the fun of trying to organize your inventory because of the weight and size of everything. 
 The levels seemed smaller than the first one. And no more character building. I remember putting 
 a lot of time into crafting a sniper character, but all the RPG elements are gone. I did have about 
 half a dozen crash to desktop bugs, and that was with all the patches.
  
  Overall, the game is not all that bad, but it had such a great pedigree, that this game just comes 
 of as a lot of blah in comparison. I would recommend the game now as it is probably in the bargin 
 bin, but hope that they release another sequel that gets back to the original formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MNDZA222
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 6, 2004 8:13 am PT
Review:  This game would have been excellent if it didn't have so many problems. I formatted my hard drive 
 to have a nice clean system to play this on and it still runs horribly. I have higher than the 
 RECOMMENDED system requirements and I put the settings down to low and it still runs like garbage. 
 I originally played this on the XBOX and liked it a lot so I decided to get it on the PC since 
 I haven't bought a PC game in a while...... bad mistake I guess because I don't even want to continue 
 playing it again especially since it freezes and kicks me out often making me lose all my damn 
 progress. It's quite rediculous honestly since the game has great graphics and excellent story 
 but doesn't run right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: target11
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 19, 2004 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I spent hours playing this great game due to the excelent gameplay.
  The graphics for this game i thought were prety good. 
  The sound for this game wasnt great it 
 was a little dull at times when you are mindlessly wondering around with not much musicly going 
 on in the background.
  The gameplay for this game was great because you what you said to people in the game reflected 
 what happend at the end of the game. this was great because you can choose to be good and help 
 people as you travel from place to place trying to find out about who you really are or you can 
 be bad and just kill anybody who gets in your way. what ever way you choose to play this game it 
 will be good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-Dogg
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 19, 2004 8:44 am PT
Review:  For those of us who loved the first Deus Ex, this game was a huge let down. It's almost like the 
 developers threw some chopped down version of Deus Ex at us. In the first, there were more biomod 
 options, larger areas, harder bad guys, a more indepth story, and more ways to complete tasks. 
 In Invisible War, you pretty much do most things the way the NPCs tell you to do them. You can 
 change your biomod outfit whenever you want, unlike the first where you had to think about what 
 you wanted. The story was so predectable that they all but write it out for you on a napkin. Most 
 of the levels (that is, areas where you have to complete goals) are so short, that you are slmost 
 done as soon as you walk in. In short, you no longer have to think things threw, you just get the 
 most powerful weapon and lay fools down. Cool sometimes, but not much fun after awhile.
  
  Personaly, I like a story that keeps me guessing and NPCs that don't tell me how to do every little 
 thing. I guess Ion thinks that gamers are completely gone in the head and need someone to hold 
 their hand. It's a shame really, this game could have been so much better. Oh well, maybe next 
 time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2004 2:29 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex: Invisible War is one of the best games I have played in a while. I enjoyed the original 
 Deus Ex, and highly anticipated this sequel, but held off from purhcasing it initially due to its 
 average review scores. Finally, once I grabbed this gem for $17, I wish I had played it sooner, 
 but at least I saved myself a few bucks.
  
  Anyhow, the gameplay is excellent. I have never been very fond of role playing games or games ported 
 from consoles as they tend to lose something in the PC world. But Deus Ex: Invisible War delivered 
 a very satisfying game experience.
  
  Not knowing what to expect from the beginning, I was very cautious in gameplay, expecting more 
 of a first person shooter type environment. It quickly becomes apparent that you are in a mini 
 universe filled with people that you must converse with to get clues and objectives to complete 
 missions, all while the greater plot unravels.
  
  The story is very well done with a deep plot that exposes itself in bits as the game progresses, 
 and you as the lead character get to make decisions as to how you are viewed in the universe and 
 the how the story unfolds.
  
  Surprisingly most loose items in the environment can be picked up and thrown or dropped at will. 
 Dead bodies can also be picked up and moved or thrown and then the excellent rag-doll physics take 
 effect which can be quite comical as you fling bodies over dumpsters, off the tops of buildings, 
 or just into a dark corner to prevent other guards or civilians from seeing them and setting off 
 alarms bringing attention to one's self.
  
  The environment is pretty open ended and there are many ways to succeed in meeting goals, and all 
 goals don't necessarily have to be met to complete a mission. And usually, there are conficting 
 goals so it is necessary to choose one path or the other. Of course, significant events are scripted 
 and require key codes or a number of multi-tools to unlock doors or weapon lockers to get more 
 armament or clues to completing a mission. Paths through vents can be used as opposed to the run 
 and gun method, or sneak and shoot options can be employed.
  
  Biomechanical modifications, or what the game refers to as "biomods" can be obtained in various 
 ways to upgrade one's character in certain ways to allow them activate a cloak to biological or 
 mechanical beings, or to hack into computers or ATMs to control security camera's, gun turrets, 
 or just steal money to add to one's own account for bribing or purchasing equipment. In total six 
 biomod options are available with two standard upgrades, or black market biomods can be installed 
 to perform more powerful actions, like healing one's self or blowing up incoming missiles.
  
  Overall, the game moves at a reasonable pace, but don't expect a super fast shooter. Lots of 
 dialog can drag the pace of the game along, but most of it is pertinent to understanding the overall 
 goal of the gamel, and is actually quite entertaining. Subtle touches like being able to read bits 
 and pieces from books lying around also add to the immersiveness of the environement.
  
  The only down side I found was with the loading in between levels. For a game console it was understandable 
 due to the limited memory, but for the PC, it seems like an entire level could have been loaded 
 into memory, or handled better.
  
  In summary, I would highly recommend Deus Ex: Invisible War for anyone looking for a game with 
 depth, originality, and overall great gameplay. It is hard to believe this game did not garner 
 better reviews, but I found it to be challenging, fun, and overall a satisfying gaming experience. 
 Especially since this can be found almost anywhere for $20 or less, there's no reason not to try 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSULion
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 4, 2004 5:25 am PT
Review:  I loved the original Deus Ex! This is a worthy successor. While noticeably shorter than the original 
 it has excellent replayability due to the multiple paths. Legendary lighting effects make this 
 one a must see if you have the card to play it at high resloution with all optins on. AI isn't 
 the best (often actions that should attract attention don't) but it's a fun game. One disappointment 
 was in how the biomods were setup. I think there should have been more levels or more biomods. 
 I ended up with lots of unused cansisters since I had maxed my character by mid game. I'm looking 
 forward to playing this again soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugmenot42
Rating: 4.4
Date: Oct 2, 2004 5:10 pm PT
Review:  To put it bluntly, Ion Storm took all that was good and treasured in the original Deus Ex experience, 
 and tossed it out the window, with the notable exception of dialogue trees and a cyberpunk setting.
 
  
  Among the gameplay "features" that were added, you will be relieved to find out that the skill 
 system was completely replaced by 'biomods' -- which are various implants that for various reasons 
 can only work in certain combinations in your body. For example, you can't have cloaking ability 
 and the ability to perform super jumps, or something or another of that style. Because apparently, 
 the hardware for both aren't compatable, and the science of which is beyond human comprehension, 
 and therefore any argument that leg implants shouldn't at all bother a cloaking device any more 
 than moving one's arms is moot.
  
  The product of all of their planning and brainstorming comes out as an arcade styled shooter with 
 a level of tactical realism below that of Wolfenstein 3D, which, to it's credit, didn't incorporate 
 universal ammunition for all weapons. Yes, it certainly adds more 'tactics' to playing Deus Ex 
 2, for example, noting down that using a rocket launcher now will prevent you from using an electronic 
 prod to repeatedly stab someone to death with. So those who argue against there being a tactical 
 'lack thereof' are indeed mistaken, but no one in their right mind could call these new 'features' 
 very compelling or immersive, let alone realistic in any frame of reference other than someone 
 on the same substances that the persons responsible for these additions were on during the design 
 phase.
  
  There is also, or rather, was also, no locational damage for the PC version when it was first shipped. 
 Shooting someone in the face had the same effect as shooting them in the chest -- except that its 
 harder to hit them in the head than in the chest. A later patch was released that added a new damage 
 zone for headshots, if that means anything. Among other things, apparently blunt weapons and tasers 
 are even less effective than they were in the earlier half of the 21st century, apparently you 
 have to constantly hold down the stun button on one's phaser for a full thirty seconds before someone 
 goes down. I opted to tape down my mouse button and go grab a cup of coffee instead while I waited.
 
  
  Among the various story and universe innovations included in the game were its excellent physics 
 and handling of water, or the lack thereof. Infact, I did not recall seeing a single pool of water 
 throughout the game -- and at Liberty Island revisted, the ocean had frozen over. Interesting plot 
 twist, or rushed engine, you decide.
  
  Not that the plot is at any point believable or immersive, of course. It ammounts to a quickly 
 pasted together jumble of ideas from a short five minute story brainstorming session shortly after 
 returning home from the local pubs, and when taken in context of the events in Deus Ex (the first) , 
 are laughably bad and completely contradictory within its own universe.
  
  The sound is also rather disappointing as a whole, and voice acting didn't seem a whole lot better 
 than the original -- as far as graphics were concerned, overall, the maps and mapping ideas weren't 
 poor -- textures were good, but for the most part, many models of objects that they should've had 
 no problems with, were horrible -- in perticular, curved objects, and most annoyingly, the weapons 
 in the first person view.
  
  Level design is "good", in the frame of reference being an archaic Playstation 2. For PC players, 
 every other door leads to another level load, which has taken over a minute on a highend system 
 (highend in the reference frame of 2004) -- and it's not as though the levels themselves are any 
 larger than, say, cubicles.
  
  And last I heard, they weren't releasing the SDK for level editing, so modding seems to be out 
 of the question.
  
  Yeah, and it had some interesting physics, no less than what's expected for modern games -- with 
 dynamic lighting and shadows, and the ability to kick things around with superhuman strength, as 
 well stack boxes to get places... oh wait... that was in the original too.
  
  Bottom line:
  Avoid it like the plague. If you're curious and you own a console, rent it for 
 a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 20, 2004 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex: Invisible War is a much different game than its predecessor as it was in many ways toned 
 down to suit the more mainstream Xbox audience. Most RPG elements were simplified or downgraded 
 and the main emphasis was put on using the five approaches - violence, sneaking, hacking, lockpicking, 
 and bribing - in turns throughout the game while at the same time taking sides in the intricate 
 plot. To force the player to switch between the five approaches, each one was consolidated down 
 to depend on a specific resource of which you would run out. All guns use the same ammo (snipers 
 use more ammo than machine guns for a shot) , sneaking requires bioenergy (more on that later) if 
 you use the masking ability to hide yourself from humans or bots or if you don't it is the only 
 and the hardest free way to get by, hacking is a biomod so you need bioenergy, lockpicks and multitools 
 of the first game all became multitools for the second one, and for bribing you need money. Invisible 
 War takes place in much more closed areas than Deus Ex, thus combat, although it has not been significantly 
 developed, is much more interesting and better-looking once you get to it. Additionally, you fight 
 particular bad guys because you have chosen so in the plot, thus there is not the silly killing 
 feeling to it. Other flaws of the first game have not been taken care of though: a guard would 
 still not notice if a bot next to him becomes a piece of scrap metal, all goodies lie around wherever, 
 and almost all sneaking throughout the game takes place through air shafts as if designers were 
 too lazy to come up with more variety. The shelf-version of Deus Ex: Invisible War also came with 
 performance problems, but now in February 2004 patch 1.2 is out which takes care of most of the 
 issues. Overall, one can only hope that after two so great games of different nature the middle 
 road will be found for the third Deus Ex.
  
  17/20 - Based on : 25 HOURS
  3/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - An XBox port with long loading times and rather slow performance. Could 
 have used more tuning for PC.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Easy, a lot easier than the original game. Many don't like it, but Invisible 
 War is more for mainstream gamers.
  3/4 PACING - The illusion of open-endedness is lost by a lot smaller areas (XBox limitation) with 
 less multiple accesses and repetition which starts to kick in after about 10-15 hours of game-time.
 
  3/4 INNOVATION - All innovations went towards simplification of the original Deus Ex, except for 
 the bribing/money earning system which worked for the first half of the game only.
  4/4 IMMERSION - If you are really into the story which is another world order conspiracy plot, 
 it is not too hard to get immersed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwonsoo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 30, 2004 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I didn't get this game until the price came down because of all the disappointed reviews 
 I read. I really enjoyed the first Deus Ex and when I heard they took away the weapon and technical 
 skill system I was upset. What made the original game good though, was the intriguing story. Once 
 I started playing this game I found myself wrapped up in the story. I was completely sucked in 
 by the story and played too much. I found it quite enjoyable. The game wasn't the best ever, but 
 I really enjoyed it. It was more than worth the $20 I payed for it.
  
  Graphics: The graphics were fine in this game. I'm still coming from PC gamer perspective so I 
 can't give a very even perspective. It looked very good on my TV though. The graphics were certainly 
 adequate.
  
  Sound: Sound was fine. Nothing to write home about, but it was implemented very well and provided 
 the proper environment.
  
  Value: For $20 (what I payed for it) it's great. I really enjoyed the game, though it doesn't have 
 much replay value. The game's greatest stength is in the interesting story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rimnet00
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 26, 2004 2:30 am PT
Review:  The first Deus Ex game was my favorite overall game for a long time, so as you might expect, my 
 anticipation for the sequel was rather high. However, to my dismay, the game didn't turn out to 
 be what I had expected.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
  The gameplay much like its predecessor is a mix of RPG elements with a FPS setting. The game allows 
 to choose your own path throughout the game. However, you will quickly realize that this game definitely 
 feels like a port of an Xbox game, which is pretty much just that. The best way I can describe 
 the control of the game, is if you were to take an xbox and connect it to your PC monitor and use 
 a mouse and keyboard to play -- and that is not a good thing. Shots don't register like FPS should, 
 for example, headshots don't instantly kill in this game.
  
  The gameplay consists of working your way around the Deus Ex world, pretty much trying to figure 
 out what is going on. You start off as a cadet for a special operations team, but soon realize 
 you are nothing more then an experiment, or are you? You are confronted by different groups, including 
 a big religious cult who tries to lure you to them. The choice is yours to decide who you wish 
 to believe and whom you wish to work for. However, after playing the game through I realized that 
 you action at one particular point near the end of the game triggered which ending you get, which 
 is a bit disappointing, but something I quickly adjusted to. You find things called "biomods" which 
 enhance you in certain aspects, such as jumping higher or having a better accuracy. You are also 
 able enhance your weapons with special modifications.
  
  The rich story and the strong gameplay really pulls you into the world, and makes you feel like 
 you are really there, which really makes this the best part about the game.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  I would consider the graphics to be "good". However, with that said I would quickly add that the 
 engine is horrendously optimized, which is unacceptable in this day and age. A game developer must 
 realize the simple truth that; no matter how great your game may look, if it isn't optimized and 
 required a high-end computer to play -- you WILL be frowned upon. The problem isn't about scaleablity 
 either, the sad truth is, the graphics arn't good enough to justify the high system requirements 
 [the true system requirements, not the one found on the box] .
  
  SOUND:
  The game sounds good, that is pretty much all I have to say about it.
  
  VALVE:
  There isn't 
 any real multiplayer available for this game, however, I don't feel there needs to be. This game 
 was meant to be a single player game, nothing more. So any extra they may decide to add later through 
 patches and such will just be a nice plus. NOTE: they did add multiplayer later on in the original 
 Deus Ex.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  This game is good, however it is plagued with many problems that kept it away from being a must 
 buy. If you are a fan of the Deus Ex series, then go ahead and buy this title if you are willing 
 to work through its problems. If you have a very good computer, then give the demo a try, and if 
 you like it, by all means pick up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 3.8
Date: Aug 18, 2004 4:01 am PT
Review:  All I can say is what the hell were these guys thinking. Why would PC developers stiff all us gamers 
 with a console port of the of a terrible substandard remake to the original Deus Ex. This game 
 blows chunks of @#$% And that's just for starters. The skills system Has been COMPLETELY removed 
 WHAT! Are you kidding me that's what made the original so deep. Also the interface is now geared 
 towards Xbox owners. Great I pay $2000 plus for a powerful computer and I have to play ported games 
 from a $199 console system. Warren Specter and team should be ashamed. The original PC version 
 of Deus Ex is the only reason for Deus Shame I. W. to even excist. Futhermore what the hell is this 
 Unified ammo crap, does ion storm think that PC gamers are so dumb that we don't know the difference 
 between shotgun ammo and rocket ammo. Hey a word of advice to Warren Spector and team, if you don't 
 want to lose the respect of PC gamers everywhere, don't ever stiff us with a console crap port 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CGS-Sledge
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 1, 2004 8:20 am PT
Review:  This game could have been the best game of the year, I say could have because it didnt come close. 
 The original Deus Ex game was an instant classic with excellent game balance that was enjoyable 
 by both FPS fans and RPG fans. DE II doesnt come close to capturing the same gaming greatness 
 of its big brother. Some say it is strip down to console standards and if you play it you will 
 find out that it is true. This is the new trend in the PC gaming market. Companies being pressured 
 into making more money and being forced to water down the games so they can run on both the PC 
 and the console. I have all three top consoles on the market now along with a high end PC. I am 
 a PC fan first and only enjoy certain games on the console due to its limited abilities. Deus Ex 
 should have focused on its PC roots and then at a later date been strip down to run on a console. 
 The games graphics are top notch and the open ended game play are the best parts of the game. They 
 just do not bring enough to the table to make the game worth playing. Do yourself a favor, buy 
 the original Deus Ex for the PC and enjoy an excellent game the way it should be. Play Deus Ex 
 II on the Xbox like it was intended for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Varik
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2004 7:34 am PT
Review:  An excellent sequal to an excellent game. Deus Ex 2 is one of the first games with the new physics 
 engine, and for the most part was a success. The only real flaw that bothered me was that knocking 
 over a couch was as easy as knocking over a lamp. Beyond that, I found it to be an excellent addition 
 to the game.
  
  The storey itself is written quite well. They did a wonderful job in not entirely commiting to 
 one of the endings of the first Deus Ex, yet incorporated them all to an extent. 
  
  It will be very interesting to see where they go with the frnachise from here. But contrary to 
 many critics, I found Deus Ex 2 to be a complete success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delahaya
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 22, 2004 5:13 pm PT
Review:  It is really too bad the demo came out like it did. I believe many people were put off by it, but 
 then the original DeusEx needed tweaking also. I was ambivalent about the demo, but finally purchased 
 the game. I have to say that the full game (version 1.2) is awesome. It grabs you just like the 
 original with a cool storyline. The graphics and physics in the game engine are great. I think 
 Warren Spector is victim of his own success; his consistent delivery of great games has spoiled 
 us till we expect the impossible. There is just no way DeusEx 2 could live up to the expectations 
 set for it - it is still a great game. Most review sits, where professional reviewers actually 
 play the whole game before commenting give it much higher scores than the loudmouths on the internet 
 forusm. Personally, the quibbles I have with this game are so minor I'm not even going to list 
 them. I do hope an SDK comes out thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flishkin
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 12, 2004 7:06 am PT
Review:  The terrible performance of this game really got me down. I spent hours tweaking my system (9800XT, 
 AMD 2.8Ghz, 512MB) just to get the game playable. The gameplay was okay, but the story just didnt 
 captivate me and I found it quite frustrating not knowing whats going on (Whos the good guys? 
 Whos the bad guys?) . I dont like replaying games, so I want to make the best choices for my character 
 and get on with the game. What I found really odd is that the biomods werent much of a help during 
 the game. I think youll be able to finish the game without even one biomod. Everything just seems 
 flawed from terrible performance to useless features, this is one game I will not recommend 
 to anybody! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwruger
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 11, 2004 1:42 pm PT
Review:  As someone who enjoyed the first game very much, I approached the sequel with considerable trepidation. 
 I could imagine the problems that would arise with determining which of three outcomes a returning 
 player might have chosen. If the developers ignored this choice, some gamers may have felt slightly 
 cheated. The developers solved this problem quite neatly by simply by adopting an ending that takes 
 into account all three endings. Overall, I think it succeeds quite nicely.
  
  First, the graphics are incredible and the look of the game is simply astounding. This comes at 
 a price. The recommended options are pretty much correct and the only thing I would add is a little 
 more ram. It takes a hefty machine to run this at its highest detail settings. The good news is 
 that at lower settings, it still looks damn good. I ran it on my 1.5 GHz and still had a very enjoyable 
 experience.
  
  Deus Ex broke new ground by combining a deep, rich story with FPS action and RPG character development. 
 The sequel makes some changes to that formula. First, most of the RPG elements are gone. The skill 
 system used in the first game is largely dumped in favor of customization of Biomods Biomods 
 are nanite infusions that grant physical or skill increases by nanotech reprogramming of the molecular 
 restructuring of the human form. These biomods are flexible enough that if you make a mistake, 
 you can fix and slot in a different mod, but I recommend that you read the book that came with 
 game and plan which mods you want. The mods are set up to support different styles of play. There 
 are stealth mods that are perfect for you sneaky types and combat mods that will help the bashers 
 in a standup fight by detonating ordinance at a distance. Either style will work and the game lets 
 you choose whichever you prefer.
  
  One of the goals that the designers must have had was to create a story line that you can actually 
 effect. In this they succeed by opening and closing dialog and quest paths based on the decisions 
 you make. For example, if you kill one of the other trainees in the opening then they wont be 
 there to oppose you or help you later in the game. The factions in the game will try to recruit 
 and will be fairly forgiving of you opposing some of their goals, but each of them have a point 
 of no return late in the game which closes off particular endings. Players who wish to experience 
 all the endings will take care to preserve a savepoint far enough back so that the player can make 
 different decisions. There are four different possible endings and nice cutscene that shows you 
 the consequences of each ending. 
  
  The story is as rich and deep as the first one. The plot is involving and intricate which helps 
 make up for the fact that the gameplay is not as good as the original. There are so many different 
 ways to solve a puzzle that it simply isnt as much of challenge. One of the first weapons you 
 get is a boltcaster that has a scope and shoots tranquilizing darts. Its cheap in ammo usage and 
 is effective against every enemy except for armored troops and robots. With weapon mods that let 
 you do extra damage and increase the refire rate, you can shoot a guard three times before even 
 has a chance to react. Using the scope puts you so far away that he collapses before he can even 
 get close. 
  
  Finally, a word has to be said about the rocket launcher. Its very, very good. In fact, its too 
 good. Using the secondary fire mode, you get a guided missile that you can control. It allows you 
 to sit halfway across the map and repeatedly shoot the bad guys without them having any chance 
 to retaliate or even realize what is killing them. Where is the skill in that?
  
  Overall, I still rate this game very highly because of the deep and involving story. It actually 
 leaves up closely to the idea of an interactive novel that has been bandied about the industry 
 the last 25 years or so. This is such a remarkable achievement that it helps gloss over slightly 
 lackluster gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wagner2002
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 2, 2004 9:07 pm PT
Review:  What seemed to me as a spectacular game at first, turned out to be a very short and limited experience. 
 Limited graphics, limited level design, a limited world to move in.
  The storyline and plot were quite convincing, and they seemed to be the only reason that kept me 
 playing the game on to the end.
  There is a constant feeling that you are moving along in a miniature world, as a result of the 
 tiny levels.
  Imagine trying to play a downsized football match inside your garage  each team has only two players, 
 the spectator crowd is made up of only five individuals and your football field is no more than 
 4 meters long  do you get the picture? Well, this is how I feel playing Deus Ex: Invisible War. 
 The environment just isnt convincing enough.
  Its actually ridiculous to read some of those notes you so often come across in the game, saying 
 that this or that person got lost or could not find a way out in some particular level. How 
 on earth some character could get lost or stuck in the games tiny levels is something yet to be 
 explained (perhaps some of the games oyster-IQ characters might after all) .
  Deus Ex: Invisible War is a good story wrapped in a bad casing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffaceves
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2004 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is not as long as the original ( took me about 3 five to six hour sessions. but this is 
 some of the best gameplay i have experienced in a while. if you like the first one, i think you 
 will this one as well: if you appreciate it for what it is. I have seen others complain about perfomance, 
 but this game ran smoothly on my machine- Athlon XP 2500+, Radeon 9700 
  Pro, 512 MB DDR @ 1280*1024 8xAF no AA. Remember gamers, this is an Unreal based game ie.. the 
 more memory the better! If you like well designed levels and consistent gameplay, then this game 
 if for you. now onto KOTOR!!!!!
  
  ps.. forgot the complaints of this being an xbox port, try the demo. enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaBob
Rating: 6
Date: May 20, 2004 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game was, overall, a disapointment. While the gameplay itself is good, the game seems to rest 
 solely on that, forgetting things like the plot. It has a decent story with lots of twists, but 
 the major downfall of this game is that you have no clear idea of who's side you should be on. 
 Even at the end there is no clear picture of right or wrong. I saved my game right at the end and 
 went through all the endings. All were equally disapointing. I wouldn't recomend buying the game 
 unless you just really enjoy the deus ex gameplay style and aren't to concerned with a storyline 
 and the feeling of completion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 15, 2004 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The original Deus Ex is THE best game I've ever played. So how could I possibly be fair in reviewing 
 its sequel? For me, I know that it's bound to fall short of expectations, but that won't keep me 
 from giving it a high score. It's still huge game with lots of stuff going on. The graphics are 
 demanding but have a beautiful UNIQUE visual style, and they can be turned down a bit and still 
 look very impressive. Now the major bad: 
  
  I miss the point system. And the story branches off too early, removing the tension of switching 
 alliances!
  
  That said, buy the game. It retains alot of what was great about the original.
  Also you can 
 it get real cheap now! A BIG value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dstark9
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 12, 2004 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game for gameplay for me was extremely frustarating. It seemed like every 30 seconds there 
 were load times which were really annoying. I was expecting alot more from this game since the 
 1st one was really a new kind of forum for 1st person shooters. The graphics seemed kind of blotchy 
 and to be honest outdated. I was hearing everyone talk about the shadows and how great the effects 
 were, I did not see it. The storyline was pretty boring and did not keep me intrigued at all. I 
 would recommend buying the game when it drops down in price to what the original Deus ex sells 
 for about $9. I will say this about the game which I liked. There are so many different paths you 
 can take which the replay value of the game is great. Ofcourse I finished the game about 4 months 
 ago and have not really thought about trying the other venues of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disingenious
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 1, 2004 11:21 am PT
Review:  I never played the original Deus Ex - so I don't have that cranky, "You could do this, and this, 
 and that in the first game!" thing going on. So I'm either more objective, or more uninformed, 
 your choice. ;)
  
  I just finished the game, and I'm impressed. There's a real story in there, and Eidos was apparently 
 completely unconcerned with alienating younger (or, uhh, more casual) gamers with big words and 
 deep concepts. The game unabashedly throws big ideas at you like fish to a seal. And if you miss 
 one, too bad for you!
  
  OK maybe that was a pointless metaphor, but I'm still impressed. I'm fairly sure I got the "main" 
 ending, the one the designers likely viewed as the "real" one. Or the most "real" one. OK, fine, 
 who knows - I sided with the main character from the first game so there. Anyway while slightly 
 short - I liked the ending, it left you thinking, wondering. Right up until the very end I was 
 having real trouble choosing a side to ally with. And in the end when one of my old classmates 
 got himself killed, I felt slightly bad for him. Not in a freaky, the lines between fantasy and 
 reality are slow blurring way though. More like in a completely normal, still well within the realms 
 of sanity way.
  
  My main complaint with the game (and I'm not the first to say it) was probably the ventilation 
 shafts. It might seem like a small gripe, but it's a bit of an immersion killer. Every building 
 is practically brimming with person-sized shafts, most of which are cleverly hidden behind empty 
 boxes and fierce potted plants. Giant, global conglomerates and secret world-ruling groups invest 
 huge amounts of money and time planning every minutiae of their convoluted plans to dominate / 
 save / purify / cuddle the world. Huge military bots, powered armor, and lackeys are all carefully 
 placed in strategic locations to guard important things and look intimidating. And no one, not 
 even once looked up and said, "Hey boss, should we be worried about that person-sized ventilation 
 tunnel directly above our heads and over Container-X?" And the AI's are so frustratingly close 
 to being lifelike that their strangely truncated field of vision seems a little strange. Even without 
 biomods your character is basically able to save the world because he/she can, well, see further 
 than the opposition.
  
  Oh, and turn on subtitles when you play. It's not worth missing important parts of a conversation 
 because you missed a word, although the voice acting is great. Oh, and so is the music. I bought 
 the CD for the band (Kidneythieves) who did the game's music, good stuff.
  
  Obviously I felt the need to whine about something, but all in all I really liked the game. Interesting 
 story, hard choices (although the villains are fairly forgiving up until the end) , and some interesting 
 insight into the future of humanity? All the great stuff of science fiction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larryl
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2004 7:49 pm PT
Review:  First things first. I can't believe these idiots that give a game a 1.0 because of their crappy 
 systems. It plays fine on mine and I'm sure it does on most other machines out there. These guys 
 are novices that don't know their butts from a hole in the ground about computers.
  
  Now, about the game. It has nice graphics and I like the way it allows me to choose what courses 
 I take in the game. I suppose because it doesn't offer any real clear direction, it can get monotonous 
 at times, but then I usually play something else for awhile and come back to it. The AI isn't the 
 best, but I believe the other challenges in the game make up for it. Overall, it is real fun way 
 to spend a weekend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomad_wolf
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2004 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Reading the myriad of reviews concerning this game, it is apparent that new fans and old fans alike 
 are split as to the value and quality of this game. Having played through the original, I can understand 
 how fans of the Denton brothers would feel betrayed if the new installment did not live up to high 
 expectations they harbored  many feel that DE: IW is a disappointment and not on par with the original. 
 I for one, I am not disappointed in the least. The expanded goals, both primary and secondary, 
 were a welcome surprise and an improvement over the original. The stealth vs. blow 'em away choices 
 are obvious and well done - the type of game play in many respects is left up to the player. The 
 story line is well done and well plotted - no lags or boredom here. The graphics are vastly improved 
 over the original and I felt the sound was slightly better as well. All-in-all, I feel the game 
 was put together well, and easily worth the $40 and a replay or to. I recommend the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shagy
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 5, 2004 11:56 am PT
Review:  Really disapointing. Thats all I can say. I was a big fan of the original Deus Ex, but felt some 
 rediculous developing decisions all but ruined this game completely. First the highly touted physics 
 are a complete joke, objects seem to all have the same weight, and kind of float. And while the 
 combat in the first DE wasn't the high point, its still slow and really uninticing. The idea to 
 have one kind of ammo for all weapons was in my opinion stupid and not needed. Seriously every 
 FPS ever has had different ammo, and not once have I EVER heard someone complain, gee this different 
 ammo for different weapons is too complex, lets simplify it. And in what I think is the most exasperating 
 decision for this game, the skill system was eliminated. Ya the mods are still there, but the skill 
 system helped make deus ex such an original experience. Its like the developers thought the players 
 of the first deus ex had become spontaneously retarded and couldn't deal with anything complex 
 or that required any real thought. Yes the graphics got better, but they still run somewhat sluggish 
 compared to other better looking games. Really the only highpoint of the game was the sound, which 
 was good but not superb. The ball was dropped really bad with this game, I can only hope Thief 
 3 isn't such a mess of poor ideas and even worse implementation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2004 3:20 am PT
Review:  Great graphics.
  
  I like the voice acting better than the original game.
  
  More of a FPS than an RPG, so instead of having a character with skills, it is the players own 
 skills that matter most.
  
  Same type of gameplay as first game, although some may not like the fact that they have made the 
 game easier to interact with. For example you don't need to remember keycodes, you just have to 
 find them, and the same applies for passwords and logins.
  
  I think the game can be too difficult if you have no ammo, or bio energy for that matter, which 
 is precisely the situation I was in when I reached the second level (Mako buildings) . I would have 
 to say that this is a genuine fault of the unified ammo system, as you cant just pick up a dropped 
 weapon to get more ammo. What I am saying is in every other game, if you pick up a weapon of the 
 same type you are carrying you will inherit the ammo from the gun. However in Invisible War you 
 will pick up another gun, so it is quite possible to hold 3 pistols and have no ammo to use them, 
 even if you pick up a fourth. This is a major fault in the game simply because ammo is very hard 
 to come by, there are no ammo shops so you have to try and find discarded ammo basically.
  
  Having said all that, I think the game is a winner, and I think it's worth pointing out that 
 the demo is completely non-representative of the final game. I'd go as far as to say that Eidos 
 made a mistake in releasing a demo for this game as it would have sold on the success of the first 
 game, much like Vice City did with respect to Grand Theft Auto 3. A lot of people are going to 
 play that demo and be put off the game, when the demo level is nothing like the similar level in 
 the game, especially if you have the Euro version of the US version patched to 1.2
  
  Go and buy this game now, but just dont expect and RPG like with the original, this is FPS all 
 the way and a good one at that. Keep an open mind! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 29, 2004 11:56 am PT
Review:  Made for consoles and disappointing in every way: I like console games but there are already enough 
 of those to buy. The orginal Deus Ex had several flaws, but it what it did well was very well done. 
 The original offered a big world with lots of different ways to achieve goals. You had to make 
 hard choices about which upgrades you wanted because it was impossible to get all of them. It was 
 fun to navigate through the large levels and the little interactive details everyhwere were great. 
 The sequel has small levels (sometimes really small) and you can get any ability you want. I can't 
 speak for everyone who really liked the first game, but to me the sequel removed just about everything 
 I liked in the first game. It feels rushed to market. This game should have never been on the XBOX 
 if they were going to simplify every aspect of the orginal PC game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dygel
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 24, 2004 11:31 am PT
Review:  It was only after some serious deliberation that I decided that $40 was a good enough price tag 
 for me to pick up Invisible War. In light of mixed reviews and my deepest desires for the sequel 
 to live up to the legacy of the original, this was not an easy decision to make. But I did buy 
 it, and I've finally finished it, which means that it's time to share my reflections upon it with 
 everyone.
  
  First and foremost, the burning question about this game is this: does it live up to the standards 
 of its predecessor? For the most part, the answer is yes. I felt the game to be a worthwhile follow-up 
 to the original Deus Ex. There were some differences between the two games that situate it on a 
 notably lower level of greatness, but I never felt disappointed by the game's story or the gameplay.
 
  
  The story of Invisible War takes up twenty years after the end of the original, where JC Denton 
 thrusts himself to the top of the global power pyramid. A massive collapse of economic power and 
 social order in general occured just after that, a catastrophe of the modern-day infrastructure 
 that left humanity stunned and confused. Now, twenty years later, society has begun to rebuild 
 itself, and there are a number of factions that are vying to simultaneously rebuild and recapture 
 the top seat in the global hierarchy: the Illuminati (working toward a global military state) , 
 ApostleCorp (working towards post-human civilization) , the Knights Templar (opponents to biomodification) , 
 and the Omar (biomodification extremists) .
  
  Sadly, this backstory puts Invisible War at a disadvantage, compared to Deus Ex. A lot of the charm 
 of the original Deus Ex was in that the setting was the near future, so modern-day paradigms and 
 understanding about conspiracy theories and secret organizations were still applicable. Invisible 
 War literally blew that foundation up, and subsequently has to start from a fresh foundation. This 
 causes a lot of that familiarity to dissolve immediately, lost in the void of science fiction. 
 Deus Ex was built on our world, and as such made for a really good story. Invisible War was built 
 on Deus Ex, so it gave up on trying to eclipse or even match the quality of the story behind its 
 predecessor.
  
  Somewhat frustratingly, there was little mystery to the game this time around. The main character's 
 name is Alex D - you shouldn't need to call Sherlock Holmes to find out that this really stands 
 for Alex Denton. This is really the maximum depth of the secrets and the intrigue that the DXIW 
 plot has: you know the factions at work here pretty early on, and there's little dynamic to them. 
 You do work for one of them and you tick off the others. The scenario never really changes so you 
 end up running missions because one of the factions has twisted in a manner your character hadn't 
 expected.
  
  Similar to the watering down of the plotline, the game play systems of Invisible War have been 
 watered down a bit from the original. The customization abilities through biomodification in the 
 original game were such that you could use biomods found throughout the game to enhance even primitive 
 game functions - marksmanship with different sized guns, proficency with explosives, swimming, 
 electronic, and computers and so on. DXIW has simplified the process and allows for only 5 different 
 modification types. For each of these five types, there's only three choices, and each selection 
 only offers 3 levels of proficency. Further, some of the new biomodifications offered really make 
 the game too easy. For instance, I never encountered any difficult battles, because I could always 
 turn on my biomods which would make me optically invisible and thermally invisible, so neither 
 man nor machine could see me. All I would have to do is move a bit, make a clean shot, and then 
 thun those biomods back on when my gunfire shut them off.
  
  The inventory system has also taken something of a hit. In the original, the available inventory 
 was limited to your active weapons belt plus a space-limited 2D array backpack. Invisible War allows 
 Alex D to carry 6 weapons in quick slots, and then has 6 extra item slots. Biomods and weapon mods 
 no longer take up inventory space, either, so you could theoretically be carrying around 12 different 
 rocket launchers without batting an eye. JC Denton might be able to squeeze a couple of those inside 
 his inventory, but he wouldn't have had much room for anything else.
  
  On the whole, I liked DXIW. It was entertaining and provided a bit more closure to the story of 
 Deus Ex. Should you pay $40 for it? Maybe. I'd suggest you wait until the price goes down to $30 
 unless you're a real fan of the original looking for a low-intensity reminder of why the first 
 one was so great in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mscoelho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2004 4:03 am PT
Review:  This is a really fun game! That's what games are supposed to be about, having fun? I never played 
 the first Deus Ex, so I'm not bringing in pre-conceived notions about what this game should be. 
 I did play System Shock II and while I enjoyed it, I found it to be overly difficult at times. 
 Dues Ex has a more stream lined interface that makes the game more enjoyable. The real draw is 
 a great Gibsonesque cyberpunk story that pulls you right into the well thought out sci-fi universe 
 of the game. It's a very intelligent game. 
  
  I'm playing the patched version. Prior to the patch, I had numerous crashes. Post patch perfomrance 
 is better, but I still have some problems. Don't let some of the ridiculously low scores people 
 of thrown at this game keep you from playing it. There are some bugs, but the patch has helped. 
 The patch also improved the interface. It plays well on my 2 Ghz system, albeit at the lowest resolution 
 setting. It still looks great. The lighting effects are very good. 
  
  Play this game, you won't be disappointed. I've scored this a little higher (but not much) in order 
 to balance out some of the other unfairly low scores here.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: giantraddish
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  It looks great. The dynamic lighting in this game is beautiful, the textures are generally well 
 done and the models are detailed. But...
  
  The levels are all very small. Hallways are narrow ceilings are low. The fact that the most common 
 weapon mod increases range seems self mocking. The sniper rifle scope, a plus in most games, seems 
 to be used to as a balancer in this game. You have to zoom to get the damage bonus, but since almost 
 all your fights are in close quarters the zoom just makes the sniper rifle harder to use.
  
  The physics engine is cool. I amused myself for a little while just shooting coffee cups off 
 the shelf and throwing boxes around. But...
  
  It never really seems to affect the game. In some cases it's just annoying. Like when you try to 
 jump up on a crate only to watch it go flying across the room.
  
  The no right answer, shades of grey, story line seems interesting at first. But...
  
  Once 
 you figure out that no matter what you do you are just helping the world's population to some degree 
 of subjugation or destruction it just ends up being depressing. I also question the replay value, 
 although opposing groups will give you opposing goals it's ultimately the same mission. You just 
 choose whether to talk to a NPC or kill them at the end or which computer function to choose and 
 the choice has no real affect on the next mission.
  
  The action/RPG genre pioneered by Deus Ex 1 is still here, body mods and weapon mods are still 
 fun. But...
  
  Powerups are plentiful. You can easily have all of your biomods and weapon mods maxed out by midway 
 through the game so unless you choose to change out functions the character growth in this role 
 playing game doesn't last very long. In DX1 there were 3, 4, or 5 ways around every problem and 
 how you approached it was governed by what skills/mods you had chosen, and what inventory you had 
 brought along. In this game it seems like there are several ways around every problem and you have 
 what you need to choose any of them. It's not role playing, it's just easy.
  
  When I first played the demo, I was disappointed and wasn't even going to buy the game. Then I 
 decided I was being unfair judging it against DX1 and maybe missing out. In the end this is one 
 of those games that's just good enough to play to the end. Moments of brightness with lots of buts... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortuus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2004 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Boy oh boy, do I love this game!
  
  First off, I should point out the lack of maturity some of the other reviewers are displaying (namely, 
 the ones giving the game a 1.0) , simply because it did not live up to their expectations from the 
 first Deus Ex.
  
  With that out of the way, let's get to the review.
  
  It is immediately apparent that the developers of the game put alot of thought into the gameplay 
 aspects. Not only does it successfully combine the elements of a RPG and FPS, but it also combines 
 them well, and that's no small feat! The open-endedness of the game is astounding. The game is 
 ready for anything you through at it. It doesn't matter what order you do the "quests" or how you 
 do them, the game can handle it. For instance, you can either sneak your way through a mission 
 without ever dishing out lethal damage, run in with guns a'blazin', or hack the security systems 
 and just waltz right in with out anyone/anything giving you a second thought.
  
  The story is very compelling... I can't stress this enough. You truely feel involved with everything 
 that is going on around you. There are multiple endings that are influenced by your actions near 
 the end of the game, and each ending is very philosophical and intriguing.
  
  The graphics are very impressive, especially with the "bloom" setting on. Think of the entire game 
 as looking like a CG movie and you have the basic effect of bloom.
  
  I think the sound is very... convincing... I can't really think of any other word for it. I mean 
 it's not the best around, but it's still very good.
  
  If you go out and buy this game, you will definately be getting your money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 18, 2004 9:44 am PT
Review:  Disappointment.
  
  That pretty much sums up my opinion of DX: IW. I'm a huge fan of the original DX, it's one of the 
 games on my short list of "never uninstall" programs. Deep gameplay, exciting and tense levels... 
 it was fantastic. DX: IW has none of that. What should have been an improved game across the board 
 failed to even hold ground!
  
  From the start, it's obvious that this game was developed primarily for the Xbox, with the PC version 
 as almost an afterthought, an all too common situation these days (Pirates of the Caribbean, anyone?) . 
 The levels, while they are full of interactive objects and little nooks and crannys to explore, 
 are tiny small, almost claustrophobic. This leads to frequent level loading, which breaks up the 
 continuity completely. I could stand that, if the level loading didn't take 30 seconds or more 
 and drop me back to desktop for a few seconds each time. Why such tiny levels? Xbox probably couldn't 
 handle more.
  
  No localized damage, one kind of ammo for every gun you have, only 12 inventory slots (jeez, that's 
 a bit ridiculous folks!) , weapons that seem to do very little damage to AI enemies, requiring the 
 equivilent of emptying the clip into them, long loading times, poorly implemented stealth gameplay... 
 there's a lot to be angry about with this game.
  
  On the plus side, the graphics and sound are fantastic! The plot is pretty good, and it's not an 
 unfun game. On the contrary, it's pretty fun to play. But it should have, could have been so much 
 more and so much better. What we have here is a pale imitation of what the sequel to the finest 
 shooter ever made should have been, all because it was dumbed down to accomodate the bloody console 
 market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleThursday
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2004 11:52 am PT
Review:  Excellent game. Different from the first, which upset many hardline fans of the original. To look 
 at this game within it's own capacity, it's a great game. The patch definitely corrected some negative 
 aspects and the biggest question yet remains: multiplayer? I do enjoy this game, and depending 
 on how you play, there is a lot of replay potential (ie, stealth - no kills and no overt actions) , 
 run-and-gun - kill everyone, "Good Guy" - help the downtrodden, "Bad Guy" - Assist the powers that 
 be in world domination, Male/Female - some shift in NPC behavior depending on your sex. Sadly, 
 the omission of the editor leaves the mod community out in the cold, which is an unfortunate decision 
 on the part of Ion Storm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrajch
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2004 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I recently purchased the game Deus Ex Invisible War and as such I was highly excited about this 
 game. As a dedicated GAMESPOT member I read the reviews and eagerly anticipated the game getting 
 it as my present to myself for Christmas. But this game is not what I expected. It does have a 
 rather nice story line and it is very intriguing. But it lacks continuity. By continuity I mean 
 that the game either crashes too much or has to many graphic problems to allow the player to get 
 enthralled in the game. Also I expected a lot more in the terms of graphics quality when I got 
 this game. The graphics to me are not impressive especially considering the advances in graphic 
 technology. What would be impressive to me is if the guys over at EIDOS got the game to work properly 
 and without the graphics problems it came out with. 
  I typically get a really low frame rate in this game even in the first level (the apartment) and 
 I have a really high end PC. Also the game at first crashed every time you loaded a new level. 
 For stealth based game as it claims to be there is no positional sound or environmental sound to 
 get you into the game world. Also the characters do not act like they should. The AI in the first 
 Deus Ex was much more impressive because people actually noticed thefts and you brandishing a weapon 
 in a non-weapons area. They also did smarter things when they noticed a dead body in the middle 
 of a room like sound an alarm or something; in IW they all crowd around the body and wait to be 
 shot. 
  The weapons damage in the game is not realistic, you can fire several shots into a persons head 
 and the person will still have the audacity to lob a spider bomb your way. One good thing about 
 the game is the impressive dynamic lighting and physics. But the physics are a bit erratic. I have 
 seen horrible things in the physics of this game, horrible things, I have seen bodies all discombobulated 
 and heads turned backwardsit was like a scene from the exorcist. Overall, Deus Ex Invisible War 
 is not a very impressive game. The AI is horrible, the graphics are not impressive, the game is 
 buggier then an ant hill, and finally it is really SHORT amounting in at most 20 hours of game 
 time, but you have to REALLY take your time to do that.
  
  By John Rajch
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EbonDrake
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 31, 2003 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Any sequel suffers the challenge of being compared to its predecessor. That's simply a fact of 
 life that developers must deal with. A wise rule of thumb they would do well to adopt would be 
 to never offer fewer options or less depth than the original, or to remove key aspects of the game. 
 To do so often results in an apparent "Lite" version of the original, which is what has happened 
 here.
  
  The most glaring omission is the elimination of the skills and skill advancement process. Bye-bye 
 RPG elements, and subtract 40% of the fun I had in the original before even booting up. Horrible 
 choice that doesn't make any sense at all.
  
  Fewer augmentation slots and indistinct upgrade levels. A weapon selection made much more bland 
 by the use of generic "universal" ammo. Sure, it's now easier to reload, but ammo management in 
 the original forced you to try different weapons regularly, which added to the enjoyment. I can't 
 even look at my biomods unless I've got a new one to install? What's up with that???
  
  A clunkier interface and the elimination of quick-save and quick-load options (-10% for that alone!) 
 also result in a less enjoyable gaming experience.
  
  The graphics and gameplay are OK and the sound is good. If I had not played the original, I would 
 probably give this a 7. It's sad to see such bad development decisions repeated over and over. 
 If you're going to capitalize on the fame of the original, you owe gamers a sequel that meets the 
 challenge. This one left me with a bad taste in my mouth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2003 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I rated this game high just because I liked the story line and how it linked the two games together. 
 The game play is easy but I feel that the graphics and sound should have been improved much more 
 from the first game. Take for instance if anyone has played red faction it was a blast to blow 
 holes in walls and etc. Why cant we see more stuff like that. I found that using my 2G Athalon 
 cpu with Gforce fx 5200 that it taxed my system and I had to over clock my video card and run at 
 the lowest res which is strange. I run No one lives forever 2 and I do not have any problem. Maybe 
 it is just me but it seems that it had no more flavor than any other game out there of this type. 
 My final judgement is that I liked both games. If you like these type of games plop you $ down and 
 live with the down side as well as the up side besides you are just filling up free time so enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanzerAssault
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 27, 2003 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit to loving Deus Ex 1. I have been eagerly awaiting the release of IW's and was very 
 pleased when the game arrived.
  
  What is NOT pleasing is to find that the game will NOT run on my sys. I have the following:
  
 
  Dell P4 1.7
  512 Ram
  120 GB WD HD
  Direct X9b
  Asus Geforce MX 128mg Gfx Card (there is the prob)
  
  This game should state as should the 
 reviewr that anyone with an MX card will not be able to play this game. Having posted at the DE 
 forums on Ion Storm, there is zero help or support on the way.
  
  The advice, go buy a decent gfx card and stop trying to play it on a crap card. Well the crap card 
 plays every single other game I have (I run an online games mag so we have a whole raft of games 
 come in) but due to no pixel shader support will not run this game.
  
  The fact that there is no OPTION for this seems a huge oversight, given how popular these cards 
 are.
  
  PA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabbuki
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2003 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is superb! At first all these horrible reviews by other players had me discouraged, but 
 I bought the game anyway (fan of Deus Ex 1) . It turned out that I had made a good decision.
  
  The graphics are excellent! Though there might not be as much bumpmapping as I'd like, the 
 lightmapped surfaces and dynamic lighting make the game feel very cinematic. I give the graphics 
 a 10. There are dozens of different character models, each with different textures and such. (There 
 was this really funny part of the game where a woman doll was placed in front of a lamp and the 
 shadow casted made it seem as if a woman was in the room... I was scared until I knocked the doll 
 over)
  
  The gameplay is perfect. Every time I run into a locked door or keypad that needs lock-picking, 
 I look for an alternate way around... and there are always alternate ways. Often ceiling vent shafts 
 offer nice ways around problems, or maybe the broken window on the other side of the building can 
 help... or maybe my EMP grenade will work? Or maybe I can lure a guard into unlocking the door 
 for me by shooting him and hiding...
  Another sweet addition to the gameplay is the biomods. These biomods make your gameplay experience 
 different every time. Sometimes things have to be done hacking with a computer, but if you don't 
 have the hack-mod, things could be harder... But what if you put a cloaking mod in your mod slot 
 instead of the hack-mod? You can cloak yourself, ambush a guard, and steal the security log-in 
 from the guy's desk to use the computer. The ways to do things are unlimited.
  
  A little addition to gameplay is the "mantle" ability that allows you to grab hold of ledges and 
 pull yourself up. This adds a certain adventure feeling to some missions, as the mantle ability 
 can prove to be quite useful. 
  
  Plus, the game is very dynamic to your actions. You can kill people at your choosing, and their 
 deaths WILL affect the entire game. I would often save a game right before I decided to kill a 
 key NPC in the game to see how others would react and how my alliances would transform. This game 
 is dynamic.
  
  Sound is good. Nice dark noises... the guards say funny things when you shoot them. (Those stupid 
 guards... them and their lame AI)
  
  Value, good. The expansiveness of the environments and interactivity between NPC's and computer 
 terminals make me want to explore every single part of the map. 
  
  Reviewers Tilt, good. I love this game. 
  
  Oh yeah, I have a Pentium 4, 2.6 GHz processor 
 with a Geforce FX 5950, and this game runs perfectly. I can crank up the resolution and still have 
 a lag-free experience. (The game ran fine on my Geforce 4 TI 4600 at 800x600 resolution, by the 
 way) .
  
  Buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scooby
Rating: 1.7
Date: Dec 23, 2003 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game and I will have to say that as a former QA tester i am discusted! At first 
 glance I could easily tell this was a port to PC from XBOX! The UI is terrible and the bugs in 
 this game are unbelievable! I feel like I'm back in my QA saddle again! And the worst part is that 
 I can't do anything about it! The only consulation to this is that I got it for X-mas. Personally 
 I feel that the Gamespot Reviewer reviewed the XBOX version and not the PC version cause that would 
 be the only way it could get an 8. Otherwise is should have tanked. How can you review something 
 this buggy and not go insane! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmalis
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 21, 2003 9:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is okay. Its not horrible, but its not great either. I was a big fan of the original 
 Deus Ex and this game has similarities but on the whole it seemed somewhat shallower to me. The 
 graphics are not anything to write home about. The sound isn't either. The environments in this 
 game are a lot smaller than the original and the game itself is a lot shorter. You do get to make 
 alot of choices in the game but until the end, they're mostly superficial. All in all, its not 
 as good as the original, but its still pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deschain
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 15, 2003 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex: Invisible War has gotten a lot of bad publicity from fans of the original Deus Ex. While 
 I would have to agree that IW does not live up to the original in many ways, it is a worthy sequel 
 (I should note that I played with the 1.1 patch from the start) . One problem for Ion Storm is that 
 IW displays the problems early. Things like universal ammo and the inventory system where you can 
 trade a flare for a flamethrower could have (should have?) been better. But you have to take some 
 chances when you develop a new game. While in this case, some of the chances didn't pan out so 
 well, the final test of any game is simple - is it fun? Does it have the ability to capture you 
 in its world for a several hours? With IW, the answer, at least for me, was a resounding yes. It 
 brought back a lot of good memories from the original Deus Ex, particularly at the end. Deus Ex 
 never allowed you to customize your character to the extent that System Shock 2 did, so I was not 
 expecting that IW would either. What I was expecting, and received, was the chance to complete 
 assignments in many different ways and to be able to influence how the game ended (of course, you 
 have to play each scenario just to see what the results are) . 
  
  Simply, if you are looking for something with a little more story and characterization than your 
 average first-person shooter (say XIII?) and with more action and control than a normal RPG (say 
 KOTOR?) , you will have a blast with Invisible War. If it seems to start slow for you, just remember 
 to give it a little time - you will be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maple511
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 14, 2003 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I gave gameplay an eight for several reasons. First, the decision to lump all ammo together 
 into a common pool was disappointing. I would much rather have to conserve ammo on a gun to gun 
 basis, it makes for more intresting circumstances, and it also adds realisim. Also, as nifty as 
 the equipment console is, I am of the mind that the less you have on the screen, the better. I've 
 seen a few people gripe about the combat not having a real FPS feel to it. This really wasn't a 
 concern for me, the original Deus-Ex was much the same, and it's just a different gameplay philosophy. 
 I'm able to move around just fine, but if you want Quake, this ain't it. That said, the physics 
 system is the best I've seen so far. Generally FPS games tend to tweak the physics to maximise 
 hard core shoot em up gameplay. This game goes for realisim, and the restrictions that come with 
 that are actually a plus to the game. I did feel a bit let down that there was no lean function, 
 it would have been a great addition, and since Warren Spector pioneered lean, I kinda expected 
 to get it in this game. Kudos to Ion Storm for getting a patch out quickly, especally in regards 
 to the underpowered stun prod, and head damage. Several other issues addressed in the patch were 
 aimed at making the key controls more PC friendly. Nice touches for a patch, but this kind of highlights 
 a pitfall of cross platform development. A lot of PC users seem to feel slighted, and it's certaintly 
 understandable. However, I've found that throughout all these issues, the game still has the same 
 feel that made the original Deus-Ex such a great game. The story presents itself in great detail 
 and makes for intresting decisions throughout the game, and although there are some cool twists 
 and turns, I still feel that it's not quite as good as the original. I suppose that the major difference 
 is the ability to choose sides early on in the game. While this does provide for at least one replay, 
 if not more, I would have prefered something closer to the original in which you play rank and 
 file for a while, at least until you have a firm grasp of the power struggle going on. I had the 
 feeling that the developers were trying a bit too hard to diversify the story options, and it ends 
 up showing. I think there's a danger in making things too linear, but I wouldn't go so far as to 
 say this game strays away from what it was trying to accomplish. A final note here, the gameplay 
 seems to be where all the controversy stems from. There are a lot of minor issues that some people 
 will take harder than others, but in the end, when you look at the many facets of gameplay, you 
 can't help but appreciate what was done right, and Invisible War is ultimately "good enough" to 
 be called a worthy sequel to the original.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are very nice, and my score of nine reflects that. Rag-doll physics are awesome, 
 the best I've seen in any game so far. Shadows are even better. This game has shadows down to a 
 tee, and the atmosphere they create bring this game a level of realism not seen in other games 
 thus far. The textures are adequate, and I get the idea that the polygon count wasn't being pushed 
 into new ground, perhaps because of X-box limitations, or from the effects demands. But because 
 of the excellent effect produced by the shadows, a nine is still merited.
  
  Sound: In general, the sound is very good, holstering and drawing weapons can get annoying though. 
 There were many occations when I was able to hear the sounds of bots as though they were in the 
 same room, when in fact they were not. The walls simply didn't dampen the sounds as much as they 
 should have. But the sounds themselves were par or better, the voice acting was adequate and the 
 ammount of spoken story lines from the various characters is simply huge. From start to finish, 
 no expense was spared in making sure everybody got to voice their lines.
  
  Value: Even through all the little gripes, and the relatively short play time, this game is worth 
 the money for those people who enjoy this type of hybrid shooter/sneaker/RPG. These kinds of games 
 are rare, and this game stands up despite all the various issues surrounding gameplay. Invisible 
 War might not be everything to everybody, but if the general premise of the game sounds like fun, 
 the game won't dissapoint you.
  
  Tilt: This is one of the few games that I've played for hours on end, and can't get enough of. 
 Although the story line seems a bit more distant than the original, it is more than enough to get 
 me into the game and keep me there. The originallity of this game is only superseded by perhaps 
 the original and it is a breath of fresh air in a market driven by marketing that caters to the 
 largest common denominator. For the most part it stays true to what the original was about and 
 thus earns a tilt of ten in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Signal_Jam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2003 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Invisible War is an excellent game worth checking out in its entirety. The combat isn't what I'd 
 call true First Person action, and the stealth portion can be overly difficult. The action lacks 
 finess, and is often quite clunky, with the victor often being who can survive the most blasts. 
 The Stealth, while excellent when accomplished, can be exceedingly difficult without any sort of 
 radar. The fun rests in the ability to play out the game how you see fit, with various routes and 
 alliances. This does have it's drawbacks, in that if you want to power up your character you spend 
 a lot of time figureing out how to doublecross everyone and winding up with only one route. Invisible 
 war is an excellent game, given the time and patience to enjoy the genre busting excellence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRM
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2003 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I'm downhearted.....
  The original Deus Ex had good graphics & a flowing game. This game appears
  cheaply made, but 
 the $50 price is steep. 
  I expected at least as much as the original, but have been duped into
  paying top dollar for 
 a cheap, poorly made game that should not sell
  for more than $10. I have well over the system requirements but when
  loading it does this annoying 
 bit by jumping me to desktop for a few 
  seconds and then back to the game. I would be OK with its shortcomings
  if it was like the 1st 
 game. It gets my "THIS GAME REALLY SUCKS" rating
  because of the high expectations put on this game, and then not delivering!
  mrm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 8, 2003 8:31 am PT
Review:  I have seen the description Deus Ex Lite for this game, and for the most part, its a very accurate. 
 This game has merits that make it worth playing, but its still vastly inferior to the first game, 
 which I gave a 9.6 score. This game has a lot of good ideas, but they are largely negated by lots 
 of really bad design decisions.
  
  The way I see it, there are two HUGE faults that keep this from being a 9+ game. First, as has 
 been well publicized, the role-playing system  it just sucks. Plain and simple. Its not very 
 useful, flexible, robust, or strategic. The skills system that helped make the first game so great 
 is gone, and that was a huge mistake. The replacement, a carved up biomod system and a weak weapons 
 mod system, both of which require little planning or thought. There are only five biomod slots, 
 and it only takes you a few hours into the game to find five biomod canisters to fill them up with. 
 Halfway through the game, you're maxed ou on biomods. There are no weapons-related skills or biomods, 
 which means that there is no way to shape your character as a crossbow, demolitions, or heavy weapons 
 expert. What was so great about the first game was figuring out what tradeoffs to make on your 
 skills, and then combining your skills with biomods to shape your character. That type of character 
 development is missing in this system. 
  
  Its impossible to overstate what a huge fault this is. You can easily one-kill headshot your enemies 
 the second that you get a sniper rifle, and thanks to the absurd Universal Ammo system, you dont 
 have to worry about running out of sniper ammo. There is no electronics skill that makes you more 
 efficient at using multitools. There is no sense of power development like what you get in a good 
 RPG, where you start off as a complete wimp and end up the game as a demigod. That is why Deus 
 Ex: Invisible War is very shallow as an RPG.
  
  The other huge fault of this game is the size of the maps. They are ridiculously tiny. Most of 
 the areas are tight, indoor cramped spaces. Most of the outdoor areas are tight cramped spaces 
 that have a sky instead of a ceiling. Exploring an area to find the alternate secret entrance 
 to a well-guarded facility is laughably easy. There is hardly any exploring in this game. Part 
 of the fun of the first game was wandering around the huge open maps and maybe sneaking into a 
 huge building through the roof. In this game, the front door and the air vent that takes you around 
 it are only five feet away. Whats the point? Small maps also mean frequent (and long) loading 
 times.
  
  There are so many other little nagging faults in this game. Terrible AI, wonky physics. This game 
 isn't terrible, but it's disappointing in so many ways. 
  
  One welcome change from the first game is a big improvement in the voice acting. Both the male 
 and female Alex voice actors sound very good. Some voice actors return to do the same character 
 as the last game, but they sound better. Tracer Tong is back and he has a new voice actor instead 
 of an English-speaking guy trying to sound Chinese. Except for voice acting though, the rest of 
 the sound in this game takes a big step backwards. The ambient music soundtrack is almost nonexisten. 
 The weapons sound like toys, and the noises in the game dont do a good job of letting you know 
 how stealthy are your being. Sometimes I would tip off guards even though I couldnt hear my own 
 footsteps. Stealth in this game just doesnt work well at all. The riot prod is useless and the 
 tranquilizer dart gun takes two shots now instead of one to take down an enemy. But you dont need 
 stealth, since most enemies arent much of a threat to you, and you can just take most of them 
 down with an easy sniper rifle headshot. 
  
  Deus Ex: Invisible War has some saving graces that make it worth playing. The storyline is still 
 excellent. I think that it would have helped to make the game longer and give it more character 
 development, but its still great. The story has one or two very surprising twists in it, and it 
 gets you to think philosophically, just like the first one. It all makes for a good legitimate 
 sequel story, instead of just a thrown-together rehash of the first one (which is common for sequels) . 
 
  
  The developers had some good creative ideas too. Some of the black market biomod canisters that 
 you find are wicked, like one that lets you control bots, and one that imparts EMP to your melee 
 attacks. I also got a lot of amu****t out of the NG Resonance character, a holographic AI that 
 provides some comic relief, as well as some hints and side quests. And, even with the scaled-back 
 role-playing system, Invisible War still has tons of good dialog and lots of open-ended problem-solving. 
 Plus, theres nothing else like it out there as far as action/RPG games go.
  
  Its too bad though, that there was so much removed for this game. If it had been a full-fledged 
 sequel instead of Deus Ex Lite, then it could have been as good as the first one. There were 
 some good ideas here, but unfortunately, they dont stand out enough. Maybe the next Deus Ex 
 game will combine the best elements of the first two and be a truly great one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilidog_128
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 7, 2003 9:50 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for the same experience you had in Deus Ex, then play Deus Ex. The reason player 
 reviews are so low for Deus Ex: Invisible War is because people had their hopes set too high, and 
 too narrow. Deus Ex was such a ground-breaking and fresh experience that it left almost too much 
 of an impression on its gamers, and they were looking for a duplicate experience. It's not here. 
 However, in it's own right, Deus Ex: Invisible War is an enthralling, entertaining, and enjoyable 
 experience. The graphics, sounds, dialogue and the story itself are top-notch. My most enjoyable 
 moment was listening to the Bums in the Unatco Ruins discuss the same Lemon-Lime soda which Gunter 
 hated so much.
  My only complaint is with the size of the areas: they are TINY, and the constant loading from moving 
 between areas really deters from the overall experience. This game is also much shorter than the 
 first, although the ability to play from both the viewpoint of a male and female Alex D., and the 
 separate faction missions, allows for some replay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleat
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 7, 2003 9:25 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the first Deus Ex, and you have some decent power under the hood of your PC, by all 
 means run out and buy this game. The gameplay is a little more streamlined than the first installment, 
 which is actually something Ive learned to like, such as one ammo type. Im not a huge fan of 
 the interface yet, but Im getting used to it. Its got all the things fans of the first game will 
 really be looking for, such as the open-ended play, conspiracies, etc. The game is not without 
 its shortcomings, but its definitely not the piece of junk that some are making it out to be.
 
  
  Now, for some words to hopefully counter-act the 1.0 scores given by some reviewers:
  
  My hardware: Athlon XP 3200+, ATI 9800 Pro (Catalyst 3.8) , 512M PC3200LL
  
  The game runs 
 SLOW if you crank up the AA and AF. I went into the control panel and set them on application preference 
 instead of forcing it on, and also set multisampling to 1x within the game options. The game runs 
 fine with these settings, no more slowness or graphical glitches. The graphics are plenty good 
 enough without AA and AF to enjoy the game. Im not too far in it, but I find myself getting lost 
 in the game and I never notice that I dont have these options on. Also, there is a setting in 
 the default. ini MouseLagThreshold, set this to 0 to get rid of the laggy mouse movement. Tweaks 
 like these should not have to be done, but they are not too difficult. 
  
  I noticed that on 12/5 Ion Storm has some QA Jobs posted on their website. Wonder why that would 
 be?!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadmanX
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2003 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is a disappointment. After upgrading my computer so it would run well, and getting used 
 to the frustrating interface, I was finally able to focus on the game itself.
  
  Gameplay - 7 - There's just not much here. The weapons are unexceptional. The RPG system has been 
 streamlined to near-nonexistence. Running around and talking to people is fun, and getting conflicting 
 goals and having to choose is fun - for a while. But once you leave the second level (Cairo, Egypt) , 
 the game loses a lot of that and becomes extremely linear and straightforward until the final branch 
 at the end.
  
  Graphics - 8 - The game makes use of some rendering techniques that are new and will become common 
 in the future, but they do so without enhancing the gameplay. Very few light sources can be destroyed, 
 and there is little reason for doing so, so all that fancy lighting eats up CPU cycles for nothing. 
 Also, a lot of time the lighting seems to affect the level differently than the people and objects 
 in the level, so it doesn't feel like everything is inhabiting the same space.
  
  Sound - 7 - Okay. I liked some of the riffs on the original Deus Ex theme. The stuff by the Kidney 
 Thieves wasn't bad. But nothing really stood out.
  
  Value - 6 - This game can be beaten in a weekend. (Really. I just did it.) The four endings give 
 you a reason to replay the last level a few times to see everything, but other than that the replay 
 value is low.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 7 - This game is the definition of mediocre. It's unexceptional in every way 
 save one - it's the sequel to Deus Ex. It's sad that such a great game got such a rote, mediocre 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madsucktion
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2003 10:53 am PT
Review:  Real quick to address the people giving it ratings of 1's for "unplayability." After 10 hours of 
 gameplay, I have not had a single crash or bug anywhere, the game runs perfectly. Added to that, 
 I run with all the details jacked up to max, with an anti-aliased 640x480, and I've yet to see 
 the fps drop below 30 on my Athlon XP 2200, with a GeForce 4 Ti4400. Not the best system, but it 
 works, so there's no reason for your ultra computers to not work.
  
  Ok, the game itself.
  
  As is expected with a Deus Ex game, the gameplay itself is slow and 
 not too interesting, if the game relied solely on the fighting and sneaking, it would be terrible. 
 Luckily, there's the ever amazing plot, and while I haven't been able to get to deep into the plot, 
 I'm still hooked (Those 10 hours were on restarts) . You're playing this game for the plot, not 
 the action. Although it couldn't have hurt to improve the action. The best part about the plot 
 though, is that when you're done with it, you can do it again, and again, and again, because you 
 simply can't see everything in one go.
  
  The graphics, when you have them working, are simply beautiful. The lighting really brings the 
 game to life, and the atmoshpere is overwhelming. Until HL2 comes out, the graphics here are king 
 of the hill, 'nuff said.
  
  The sound could be better, firefights never overwhelm the auditory senses, they're simply "good 
 enough." I find the voice acting to be pretty good, it could be better, but I can still feel emotions 
 being conveyed through the dialogue. As for the music... I can't even remember there being any 
 music, but I'm sure it's there, obviously not the most memorable stuff if I've already forgotten 
 it.
  
  All in all, I'd recommend the game to anyone who played and enjoyed the first Deus Ex, or anyone 
 who values an excellent story in a game. However, if you're looking for the next "Serious Sam" 
 (ugh...) keep on walkin'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisdelz
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 7, 2003 8:10 am PT
Review:  If the game is unplayable, it gets a 1.0. The game's requirements are reasonable except for the 
 video card requirement which is way off line with the rest of the requirements.
  
  If all the requirements were extremely high, I would be more forgiving. The message that would 
 be given is that this game needs to be run on a top end machine purchased in late 2003. However 
 that is not the message that EIDOS gives when they put the graphics card requirements way higher 
 (based on average machine configuration a given time) then the rest of the requirements.
  
  Even if you get the graphics card working, the finicky game has many bugs, from sound locking up, 
 to full game crashes.
  
  Obviously released before its time, with draconian video card requirements, this game gets a 1.0 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradiata
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 6, 2003 9:29 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I wasn't really expecting much from this game. There just wasn't much sorrounding 
 the game to have it make a big deal in this industry. Keep in mind I've played both Xbox and PC 
 version of this game. This review is based on the Xbox version for as the PC version was unplayable 
 on my machine, (Barton 2500+ 512MB PC3200 DDR400 Dual Channel RAM, GF4Ti4400 128 DDR, SB Audigy 
 MP3+)
  
  The above statement says pretty much all that needs to be said about the PC version. But moving 
 passed that...
  
  GFX: Crap, bottom line, just trash, for how the game runs, gfx do not do this game justice.
  
 
  SOUND: Only thing in this game I found that works.
  
  VALUE: *yawn* This game is a chore to play if anything and these bio upgrades are pointless.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: DX2 isn't too bad it just isn't too good either, it's nothing we haven't seen before 
 and replay value, it seems, to me at least, is worthless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Montague
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 6, 2003 9:10 am PT
Review:  The graphics are mediocre, sound is mediocre with really bad voice actors and lipsink is way off. 
 If that is not bad enough, the game is extremely buggy and runs horrible on even the most high 
 end machines which is not due to taxing on the processor or graphics card, but bugs instead. Saves 
 are even bugged where you go to save your game and it crashes to desktop during the saving process, 
 which you loose your save at the same time. They didn't even add a quicksave and quickload hotkey 
 which should be standard for any single player FPS or RPG which ever you look at Deus Ex as being. 
 They should have never released a game as un-finished due to bugs as Deus Ex: Invisible War is. 
 My suggestion, don't buy it for a few months till maybe they might get the bugs fixed, or don't 
 buy it at all, your not missing much except for maybe a headache! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hicklebird
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2003 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I wrote this review in response to the supposed "defective" product. Turn down the resolution for 
 a smoother frame rate and enjoy a great game! Before purchasing the game listen to the interviews 
 on Gamespot. Deus Ex is cutting edge technology. (Also note that there is an Nvidia representative 
 in the interview NOT ATI.) This means the BEST hardware is required to play. Intel is a good processor, 
 but let's face it, it IS NOT the GAMERS CPU. You can't beat the AMD Athlon XP/Nvidia Nforce chipset/Nvidia 
 GPU combination. AMD and Nvidia have great relations and have open communications between their 
 R&D departments. (Check out AMD corporate news at www. moneycentral. com) ATI is not American designed 
 it's Canadian. Xbox is Nvidia based (to keep American engineers working) so guess what Ion Storm 
 is going to design a game for... you got it Nvidia. (The best in my humble opinion and American 
 designed.) You get what you pay for. Yes I had to turn down my resolution to 800 x 600 so the frame 
 rate would be steady. Worth it to play the game? .... YES! I am presently using a Geforce 4 TI 4200 
 8x AGP, Giga-byte motherboard with the Nforce 2 ultra chipset, and AMD Athlon XP 2800. I state 
 this now that this game for PC is a system hog. It will tax your system. It's the dynamic lighting 
 used in the game. Turn off that antivirus running in the background or anything else. According 
 to my phone conversation with Nvidia my next graphics card upgrade will have to the Geforce FX 
 5950 Ultra to see better performance because my present graphics card is about equal to the GeForce 
 FX 5700. I also highly recommend for gamers on the next motherboard upgrade to have tne Nforce 
 chipset designed to better communicate with an Nvidia GPU on the AGP slot. If you own an ATI, I 
 guess you're stuck with a ViaTech chipset. All Well price you have to pay I guess. Don't get me 
 wrong ATI makes a good graphics board, I just want my system to stay compatible with the latest 
 technology for as long as possible. 
  
  But do turn down your resolution and enjoy a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2003 12:42 pm PT
Review:  A SCORE OF 1?? AM I CRAZY?? No, But I am crazy for paying 45 dollars for something that is obviously 
 incomplete and needs a patch at release. Im a big Fan of Eidos Interactive and the Deus Ex series, 
 but this is not acceptable and I dont appreciate it :|
  
  The reason I gave it a 1 is because I cant play this game, it crashes too much. During the times 
 I can play it crawls. I have a P4 3 gig CPU and a Radeon 9800PRO AND my system was just reformatted 
 a week ago with all the newest available drivers for all my components. So you see I know what 
 Im talking about when I say this game is unfit for the PC.
  
  I played the XBOX version and I am jealous. It seems more attention was given to people who buy 
 XBOX titles then the "idiots" (?) who pay for PC games. 
  
  This game in its current state reminds me of when Unreal Tournament 2003 came out. Just like DX2: IW, 
 the .ini files made many references to XBOX. Why you ask? Because its a port, thats why. What 
 happened to Ut2k3? Well, Ive never seen a community get so upset (sorta like the DX community) . 
 The amount of flaming that went on in Epics forums, omg, was amazing (sorta like now on the Eidos 
 forum) . Epic eventually had to release many patches and over 250 MBs of add-on just to make it 
 into a proper PC game (the way it should have been from the start) .
  
  So you may be an XBOX owner reading this review and wonder if you should get DX2: IW for your console, 
 I say by all means. It's a sure bet you'll enjoy it with no problems what so ever. 
  As for you PC users, I would wait a few months. Too many people are experiencing erratic problems 
 with this game to recommend purchasing it at this time. Id wait for a few patches, or wait till 
 it lowers in price.
  
  Thanks for reading me thoughts, Good day :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tstark
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2003 10:38 am PT
Review:  I decided to purchase the game after playing the demo. (Who am I kidding? I was going to buy this 
 one no matter what. I was a huge fan of DX1 and even played a lot of the good mods out there.) 
 So far, I have not been disappointed with the game.
  
  Good - Great graphics, sounds, dialog and story line. Multiple ways to complete even the most simple 
 task (you'll get a taste from this in the demo, too. you can complete each level about 5 ways) . 
 Good weapon selection (too bad I can't carry more of them) . Good job by developers in not making 
 any of the moral choices seem more right or wrong than others. Your own conscience guides you.
 
  
  Could be better (I can't use "bad") - Interface is difficult to get used to and too limiting. I 
 want to be able to put more items in hot slots (maybe there's a way and I'm missing it?) . Inventory 
 is not as robust as in the first game. Character customization isn't as good as in the first game. 
 No stealth meter. Weapons seem underpowered.
  
  Overall, I think this game is about a 9. The gameplay and storyline are incredible, just like in 
 the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 4, 2003 10:17 am PT
Review:  I was doing the pee-pee dance in anticipation of this game, and after playing the demo I knew that 
 the finished sequel was going to fall short of my expectations. Mind you, it is a great game that 
 has the spirit of the original, which makes it an instant classic by default... however the dumbed 
 down interface and chuggy framerates leave me wishing Spector's crew had spent more time developing 
 the game. It is a feeling not entirely unlike when the new Star Wars movies came out and they were 
 sort of disapointing... not terrible, just not as great as everyone had hoped. 
  Surely the framerate will improve with patching, but the lame console interface and absence of 
 leveling up attributes was a glaring omission that DX purists will surely despise. I understand 
 that Eidos and Ion Storm wanted to make as much money as possible which required developing it 
 for consoles and the PC concurrently, but profit increases should not be at the expense of the 
 games depth on it's home system, the PC! It sucks that PC owners are made to share software with 
 the lowest common denomenator, namely consoles. I only hope that Ion Storm loses money on PC sales 
 so that they never repeat their tragic mistake of sacraficing depth on their PC products for those 
 easy cross over dollars. Let the console owners nibble the year-old crums left by the true game 
 enthusiasts... 
  PC Gamers. 
  
  I still really love DX2 though. I mean, hey... it's still incredibly innovative. It's still one 
 of the best games out there... It's extreme... TO THE MAX!!! Coulda' been deeper, but so what. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fromgav
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2003 8:33 am PT
Review:  Everyone who has reviewed this game thus far (and most of those reviews were pre-release) somehow 
 managed to focus on bad parts completely missing the good stuff. People tend to forget what made 
 the original game so great. It wasn't the AI. It wasn't the skillpoints. It wasn't the weapons. 
 It was the atmosphere. It was the open-endnness. It was the conspiracies stemming from every corner 
 of your seemingly tiny universe. All of these are present, and amplified in the sequel. I'm getting 
 a total kick out of it. Don't judge it until you play the full game, if you decided not to buy 
 it based on the demo (I know I did) you were wrong wrong wrong... Pick it up and enjoy the best 
 RPG/Shooter mix out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2003 12:11 am PT
Review:  Why a 1? Simple. For the PC this is a DEFECTIVE GAME. The framerate, even on a a truly excellent 
 system (p4 3.0ghz, 2 gigs of ram, radeon 9800 256, THE NEWEST DRIVERS, no AV or Firewall running...) 
 is ABYSMAL. There are so many problems it's hard to decide where to start. The gamespot reviewer 
 was INSANE to give this game an 8 for the PC, it's not a finished product. I for one, have contacted 
 eidos demanding a refund. Maybe a few patches down the road this game will be great, but right 
 now, it's not a game, it's an Alpha in a box.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaperPlate
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 3, 2003 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Shame Ion Storm, shame! It has a terrible interface, when the originals was robust. The performance 
 is terrible and the minimum requirements are ridiculous. The game runs at around 20fps even on 
 a powerful system. The game seems more like a poorly done port of a console shooter instead of 
 a sequel to a groundbreaking PC game. Dont buy the game until Eidos makes patches to fix the games 
 many performance issues. The sound in the game seems to be well done, however. Deus Ex: Invisible 
 War is a step back for computer gaming, dont waste your money on it. Maybe you should just rent 
 it for the Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gembis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2003 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Like a lot of other people out there tonight, I picked up a copy of Invisible War today. And, after 
 three hours of the game, I've clicked on GameSpot to check out the reviews. The treatment this 
 game is getting is just baffling. Any chance that some of us out there are looking to 'escape' 
 just a little TOO much? Look, the lighting/graphics in this game have just set a new standard, 
 and all I'm reading are whines that the ammo should be more individualistic? 
  Come on, already. Sorry, but hasn't anyone else grown tired of this routine: look at the ground, 
 find ammo, run, look at the ground again, find more ammo, etc.? The excellence in Invisible War 
 is that by eliminating this tired tradition, the game has forced you to look up and around. The 
 environments here are unequaled. Hey, if we all get to the point where we'd rather celebrate a 
 high-profile game's technical 'flaws' over it's breakthroughs, we'll never be satisfied. Again, 
 the lighting in this game is remarkable. Maybe if you raise your heads, cynical gamers, you'll 
 see what I'm talking about? Buy the game. You'll be as miffed as I am at those of us who always 
 seem to spot the chip out of the painting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paganstar
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 3, 2003 10:25 am PT
Review:  Well after playing the demo I went ahead and thought I would give it a try. Cash down the drain. 
 Yes they game is a passable shooter but really that is it. If you are looking for a game with the 
 stealth feature wait for the next Thief or the next Splinter Cell.
  
  My biggest gripe with the game is that they removed all the actuall RPG elements from it. Now it 
 is just a cookie cutter character instead of building it up during the game to truly meet your 
 game play style. 
  
  It is very obvious that this was designed for the consoles and then ported over to the PC. Here 
 is a hint if you make a great game like Deus Ex for the PC with a great amount of depth and features.. 
 dont make a stipped down sequel for consoles and push it back on us PC gamers and expect us to 
 like it. So if you are going to get this game despite the review here you should probably just 
 get it on the xbox at least that way you can take it back to your locale game store and trade it 
 in once you are done with it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
