-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Deus Ex
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/deusex/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 27, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 9.1, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 4,612 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Ion Storm
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Jun 26, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Deus Ex's gameplay features and story elements, as well as the expansiveness of the game's environments 
 and the scope of its setting, add up to a satisfying and unusual experience. 

 Veteran designer Warren Spector has always been known for making games that combine action and role-playing 
 elements within seamless 3D environments in order to create the most plausible interactive worlds 
 possible. He's worked on such critically acclaimed game series as Ultima Underworld, System Shock, 
 and Thief, and his latest game, Deus Ex, is similar. It's an ambitious 3D game that defies simple 
 classification, and though some of its individual elements are either overused or underdeveloped, 
 the aggregate experience of playing Deus Ex proves to be both unique and worthwhile.   

  Deus Ex looks like a first-person shooter and frequently plays like one. As bionic government agent 
 J. C. Denton, you're issued a series of risky covert assignments by your employer, the United Nations 
 Anti-Terrorist Coalition (UNATCO) . You'll find a wide variety of melee weapons, pistols, rifles, 
 experimental guns, and explosives over the course of your missions, and you'll also get to use 
 an assortment of miscellaneous high-tech equipment for infiltration and espionage. While J. C. can 
 immediately use any item or weapon he finds, he's initially inexperienced with most of them. Fortunately, 
 J. C. earns skill points for completing his various objectives, and these can be applied at any 
 time to augment J. C.'s various special abilities and combat skills up through four levels of proficiency. 
 Denton might also encounter various weapon modifications during his missions, which can slightly 
 improve his weapons' kick, reload rate, and range, as well as add features like a silencer and 
 a laser sight. You can apply additional modifications to the same weapon, and together with the 
 ability to improve your skill with that particular weapon type, eventually you can go from being 
 a lousy shot to a deadly sniper. But in choosing that route, you will forgo specializing in such 
 skills as computer hacking, lockpicking, and swimming, which are some of the skills that you can 
 apply in order to completely circumvent a lot of potentially violent situations in the game.   
 

  Deus Ex is quite long for an action-packed first-person game, but even so, most of its situations 
 present you with two or three possible solutions. There's usually a direct approach, in which you 
 must kill or incapacitate a great number of enemy gunmen along the way. But most every entrance 
 in Deus Ex also has a back door, and you'll avoid having to use up your ammunition if you find 
 it. The game also gives you several overlapping options to facilitate problem solving and to help 
 keep you from getting stuck or frustrated. For instance, at several points in Deus Ex, you'll have 
 to jump underwater and swim to reach a particular destination. Your average swimmer couldn't do 
 it, but J. C. Denton isn't your average swimmer: You can increase J. C.'s swimming skill, thus letting 
 him swim faster; you can acquire a bionic augmentation that improves J. C.'s lung capacity, which 
 lets him stay underwater longer; or you can improve his environment training skill, which lets 
 him get more use out of underwater rebreathers, hazard suits, and other special gear. Any of these 
 options are viable in any combination.   

  Each mission in Deus Ex inevitably involves getting past many enemies, security systems, and locked 
 doors. Just as you could engage these foes and find the appropriate keys in all instances, so can 
 you sneak past your foes and their security measures by staying out of their line of sight or, 
 later in the game, using high-tech stealth camouflage to slip right past them. As for the doors, 
 you can either pick their locks or just blow them off their hinges if you can't find the key. Most 
 importantly, as you play Deus Ex, you never need to pigeonhole yourself as a gunslinger, a saboteur, 
 or a thief - your proficiencies grant you only moderate benefits until much later in the game when 
 you can really emphasize your favorite abilities. But until then, you'll be able to improvise in 
 most every situation. You might typically prefer to take the first shot, but if you're low on ammo, 
 it's good to know that you could always just sneak through a particular sequence until you find 
 more.   

  Deus Ex's open-ended design is certainly ambitious, and for the most part, it's successful. There's 
 a lot of background information in the game that's purely optional; you'll come across books, newspapers, 
 and e-mail messages that are interesting and contextually pertinent, but you needn't dwell on them 
 for long. You can continue to hound many of the characters you encounter long after the main thread 
 of the conversation is over, which often yields valuable but nonessential clues. These characters 
 might refer to how you've approached situations in the past, and it's startling and remarkable 
 when they do. If you tend not to take prisoners, one UNATCO coworker might laud you for making 
 short work of the coalition's terrorist foes, but another more even-tempered peer might give you 
 the cold shoulder for cruelly killing UNATCO's opponents instead of finding a more humane solution. 
 Most of the characters you meet in Deus Ex will behave differently toward you in later sequences 
 depending on their first impressions. You don't often get to choose your responses during dialogue, 
 but J. C. generally does a good job responding to others based on how you've been playing the game. 
 Unfortunately, character interaction tapers off in the game's middle third, in which you'll find 
 yourself constantly undergoing fairly repetitive infiltration missions. It's at these times, when 
 you're closely attending to the means of accomplishing your goals, that you'll best be able to 
 identify the game's weaknesses.    

 Deus Ex does let you solve problems in a variety of ways, but when you look at each option individually, 
 you'll find that none are particularly satisfying. For instance, the combat in Deus Ex is sluggish 
 and doesn't tend to be as enjoyable as in some other similar-looking games, even though the slower 
 pacing and limited ammunition can make for some exciting showdowns. That sluggishness shouldn't 
 be a problem since the combat's generally supposed to be optional, yet in practice you'll find 
 that the combat isn't optional at all. Though you can theoretically sneak past a great many of 
 the enemies in your way, not only is it effectively impossible to sneak by them all, but it's also 
 impossible to get past the majority of them without a lot of trial and error. Unlike in Looking 
 Glass Studios' Thief games, in which an onscreen indicator gave you an idea of how well hidden 
 you were, in Deus Ex there's no real way to judge how stealthy you're being. Perhaps it's more 
 realistic that way - but then again, you'll find that some of your foes in Deus Ex seem unable 
 to detect you when you're standing in plain view, whereas at other times you'll be spotted even 
 when you think you're well hidden in darkness.   

  Similarly, while the game lets you use electronic lockpicks and special modules for disabling electronic 
 security systems, such instances are essentially noninteractive - you simply stand there and spend 
 a particular quantity of electronic picks or modules until the door opens or the security goes 
 down. You'll also find that computer hacking is a disappointingly formulaic process that can be 
 done regardless of whether anyone's watching. Even with basic hacking skills, you'll still be able 
 to bypass the encryption and password protection of any system in the entire game using the exact 
 same procedure, simply by pressing the "hack" button and waiting a few seconds. The game also has 
 an annoying tendency to impede your progress with keycode-locked doors. You can usually find the 
 corresponding keycodes nearby, thinly disguised in the context of diary entries and e-mail memos, 
 but this gameplay device is used far too often. In addition, the characters in Deus Ex have a bad 
 habit of leaving their computer passwords in plain view, thanks to data pads conveniently placed 
 throughout the game. These data pads help advance the plot and sometimes provide clues to interesting 
 gameplay puzzles, but like the overabundance of numeric keypads, their placement seems a little 
 too deliberate and contrived on many occasions. Such elements in Deus Ex are simply average, or 
 even rather weak.   

  Deus Ex's graphics aren't very good, either. Though the game uses Epic Games' Unreal engine, which 
 was once lauded for its exceptional visual quality, Deus Ex is actually a fairly bland-looking 
 game because of its incessantly dark industrial environments. It's true that some areas of the 
 game look really good, like an underground Paris nightclub and futuristic Hong Kong, and furthermore 
 that the characters are often equally good looking and made livelier because their mouths move 
 when they speak. But in consequence of such detail, the game tends to run slowly even on high-end 
 computer systems. Deus Ex also has a few other apparent technical issues, such as the positively 
 huge save-game files that are created whenever you save your progress - these can be in excess 
 of 20 megabytes - and also the occasional tendency to crash during scene transitions.   

  Deus Ex also sounds fairly plain, and though its techno soundtrack shifts when you engage in combat, 
 it's forgettable just the same. But what's more disappointing is Deus Ex's mediocre or at best 
 inconsistent voice acting. It's got a huge script, but you'll find yourself reading the lines instead 
 of listening to them because a lot of the characters aren't convincing. Even J. C. Denton himself 
 speaks in a hackneyed private-eye monotone that never betrays any inkling of emotion. But occasional 
 voice performances in the game, including an especially cold and menacing villain done by Ion Storm 
 cofounder Tom Hall, are good enough that you'll always look forward to hearing from certain characters. 
   

  If nothing else, you'll be looking forward to what those characters have to say. Deus Ex has an 
 involving story that grows more complicated as its many characters are gradually introduced. J. C. 
 Denton ends up in the middle of a huge conspiracy and will actually have to take sides at several 
 exceptional points in the game. The story is both intriguing and well written, as it draws parallels 
 between many different conspiracy theories you'd sooner assume to be completely unrelated. The 
 plot unfolds primarily through direct interaction between Denton and all the characters he'll meet 
 and also through voice transmissions that Denton frequently receives at various points in his missions. 
 These voice transmissions also serve to guide you through the game, as you'll generally have an 
 off-site associate who'll inform you of your surroundings and how you might choose to proceed. 
   

  Unfortunately, the game's mystery and intrigue are diminished by its lack of character development. 
 Many characters in Deus Ex seem one-dimensional - their motivations are clearly put forth and are 
 never really called into question. This makes many of Deus Ex's plot twists unsurprising and even 
 predictable. For a game that evidently takes influence from modern authors like William S. Burroughs 
 and Robert Anton Wilson, much of whose work is filled with a pervasive sense of disbelief, the 
 plot and characters of Deus Ex seem too straightforward at times.   

  Even so, all of Deus Ex's gameplay features and story elements, as well as the expansiveness of 
 the game's environments and the scope of its setting, add up to a satisfying and unusual experience. 
 The way in which the individual gameplay elements are balanced against each other, and the way 
 the consequences of your actions tend to come back into play, all help make Deus Ex increasingly 
 impressive the longer you play it, just as they invite you to play the game over again. It's not 
 strictly a role-playing game, as its action sequences dominate much of its gameplay. But it ultimately 
 succeeds at creating a believable, open-ended game environment, while it also tells a focused and 
 memorable story, which makes Deus Ex well suited for anyone who's played through enough conventional 
 action games or role-playing games to forgive its shortcomings in light of the game's great achievements. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (193 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2009 6:16 pm PT
Review:  When I first began to play this game I was really turned off by the graphics and gameplay. I'm 
 not the type of gamer that is ALL about graphics, but compared to today's graphics, this is old 
 lol. But as you keep playing you forget about the graphics and start to like them, it has more 
 of a comic book feel to it. Also at first this game seems hard, but again, the more you play it 
 the more you learn how to play it. Another thing that really turned me off at first was how the 
 enemies and people run, how when they move they dont really go anywhere lol. I dont know, maybe 
 it was just me, but after playing it you get used to it, again, maybe it was just me lol.
  
  The story also really starts to grow on you. At first its just kinda empty, looking for terrorists 
 and killing them, but the further you get into the game, the more epic the story becomes. I'm sure 
 at the time, this seemed like a game that gave you A LOT of freedom, BUT compared to today's games 
 such as FallOut 3, its pretty linear lol. Sure you can make a few choices here and there, and some 
 actually do have consiquences, but dont play this hoping it will be like FallOut 3. 
  
  Overall, if you are a RPG/Shooter fan, and don't mind out dated graphics, I would recomend this 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I occasionally have this moment just before I sit down to a movie, book, CD or game that I've finally 
 gotten around to playing. The moment is closer to the "my life was flashing before my eyes!" type 
 that most people claim to have before they die, but mine is usually far less dramatic or interesting, 
 unfortunately, than the climax of mortality. For me, it's a brief glimpse into subconscious thinking, 
 where I confront what I expect out of what I am about to consume. When a player looks into their 
 own eyes and asks themselves what they came into a game with, they can more maturely understand 
 what will come out.
  
  For Deus Ex, is was a question rather than an answer: what did I expect from this game? I had heard 
 so much about the plot, the characters, the gameplay, the sound, and the replay value that I had 
 quite high expectations, even if my preconceived notions were vague and fuzzy as to what these 
 mechanics might entail. When diving into the game itself, however, I hit a brick wall that's more 
 formally know as "the First Level," which by modern standards was a very difficult opening to what 
 isn't all that challenging of a game.
  
  But eventually, with a lot of deaths and certain experiments, I understood how to play Deus Ex. 
 Everything suddenly "clicked," and here it was, all laid out for me. The feeling that such an epiphany 
 brings  that, that feeling is what gaming really comes down to. It wasn't just the game, however, 
 that I was playing; the game was almost meeting me halfway. I had to apply effort as well.
  
  Deus Ex may be a first person shooter by genre, but it is a role playing game by design. While 
 the mechanics do rely on the intricacies of gun handling and innate spacial reasoning that most 
 shooters take for granted these days, the game has more in common with, say, Final Fantasy than 
 it would with Quake or Halo. This stems partially from the extensive customizing aspects, but also 
 in the pace and style of the gameplay itself.
  
  More than occasionally, and as in Final Fantasy, the player has enemies they must somehow move 
 past. In one room, for example, there were five guards walking about in their base, wandering and 
 patrolling the borders. The first time I ran in gung-ho (my personal preferred method of Deus Ex-ing) 
 and died from a poison dart shot, which in my early, underdeveloped state was lethal. So I reloaded, 
 and rather than deal with everyone else, I saved my single shotgun shell for the poison dart fellow's 
 face. By the time I had charged up to his post, the rest of his buddies were right behind me, the 
 threat of which I dispatched with relative ease.
  
  But it was, of course, "relative" ease; there is nothing about this game that is truly easy. Even 
 when I was cleaning out the house after the poison dart enemy was taken care of, I was forced to 
 plan and conserve my energy and supplies for the coming battles, even if this required less strategy 
 than taking down the first guard. This is where the parallels to Final Fantasy come into play  
 while my weaknesses to poison were partially of my own design (because I had failed to research 
 the necessary qualities needed to heal such a wound) I had to deal with my choices, and eventually 
 work around those artificial limitations. Because every single room in the game works in this fashion, 
 the replay value of this title really does sell itself.
  
  And my solution wasn't the only path forward. Deus Ex doesn't throw enemies at you, it merely throws 
 various obstacles into the environment that all present themselves in different ways as you study 
 the situation. These obstacles can be destroyed, avoided, or tiptoed through, but there's always 
 the notion of moving forward, and dealing with what's ahead. The freedom allowed in every path 
 is difficult to measure, because Deus Ex caters to what you bring to the game. It's not a specific 
 experience, and how I played may be radically different from how you played, not only because of 
 each choice involved, but the nature and eventual consequence of each choice.
  
  While the game doesn't make me feel guilty for killing men rather than stunning or sneaking past 
 them, it does point it out in dialogue and force me to consider if the way I'm playing the game 
 is the "right" way. This is possibly the game's biggest fault, even if it is rather trivial. The 
 comfort zone for shooters is not even in play here; it's an entirely different game, played in 
 a way that most people simply have not experienced yet. The rails the game places on each side 
 of the player tunned path is about as wide as your typical RPG, which in terms of shooters is a 
 breath of fresh air. But for modern gamers, and for shooter fans in particular, it feels so loose 
 that the player is never quite sure if they're going the right way or doing the right thing.
  
  Perhaps this was intentional. Again, while the game highlights the playing style used by the 
 gamer, it is never insinuated that it was the right or wrong way of approaching the mission. Compared 
 to games such as Knights of the Old Republic, where there is a rather large, colorful and advertised 
 graph that jumps between the polar extremes of good and evil, the events portrayed in Deus Ex are 
 always morally ambiguous. Does JC kill an unarmed prisoner? Could the bad guys perhaps have completely 
 valid reasons for their actions? Often these are unanswered and rhetorical questions, though other 
 times they fall right into the events that are about to come.
  
  The plot, of course, follows this train of thought, feeling like a distinct and unspoken theme 
 within its unabashed borrowing and wide-spanning literary allusions. The thesis of the story is 
 a simple, "What if all of these government conspiracies were true, all at the same time?" with 
 a few extra science-fiction-staple morality plays that weigh the significance of technology and 
 humanity (the title, which is half of the phrase "deus ex machina" is especially potent) . While 
 parts of the script do come over rather awkwardly, the plot overall is extremely and exceptionally 
 brilliant, becoming not only the sum of its parts but several times over that.
  
  Such a level of grandeur and grace must have aged over the past ten years, and while it admittedly 
 has only slightly, the game is never penalized for it. I can say on a subjective level that I never 
 once considered the decade-old graphics or the bit-tune sound, because these superficial spectacles 
 only cover up what's underneath. Perhaps this is a better arrangement anyhow  trying to understand 
 Deus Ex from a modern-day standpoint, with not only the advance of games and their paradigms but 
 also our post-9/11 world and the changes in world economics, is difficult for those who cannot 
 overcome the visual aspect. Deus Ex is not only plausible, but it hits home far too closely than 
 most would like, which makes the game personal, even if the abstract view of things looks far fetched.
 
  
  But that response is no less valid just because 9/11 hadn't happened at Deus Ex's time; in fact, 
 it's bolstered by it. And that's how Deus Ex operates; the player walks in with their game and 
 real-life experiences under their arm, and uses them to approach this big, wide game in a way they 
 feel is "right." The question I asked myself at the beginning of my Deus Ex adventure was significant, 
 because it defined not only me and my experience, but how the game reflected my experience back, 
 forcing me to question where my actions were coming from.
  
  The old Slashdot joke is especially apt here: "In Soviet Russia, Deus Ex plays YOU!" Except that's 
 we're not in Russia, and that's just how Deus Ex works. Come to Deus Ex with nothing and you will 
 receive nothing in return, but if you come prepared, get ready for the rush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZaroRansolo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Unless you care about how games look over everything else, you'll find nothing to dislike about 
 this game, everything is pieced together so perfectly it's like a glove. In my opinion, i don't 
 think you can call yourself a true gamer unless you have played this ultimate classic. 
  
  As i said before, the graphics aren't too good, but you'll soon forget that as everything else 
 starts to take hold and pull you in to the deep world, traveling to places such as France, New 
 York and China.
  
  The ability to make choices in a game is something that makes it unique and belongs to you. Using 
 an RPG system you can decide to be an expert at lock picking, and sneak through the game, or to 
 run in all guns blazing. 
  
  The Deus Ex series is centred around conspiracy theories, it's storyline still smashes games, that 
 are only just emerging and being classed as the next gen games, into the ground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Va0
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  You know, they just don't make games like they used to. This is a common complaint, but it really 
 is true when it comes to games like Deus Ex. Like Half-Life, it really grappled onto that conspiracy 
 vibe of the late 1990's, combining it with the up and coming paranoia about terrorism of the 2000's. 
 The result is a unique cyberpunk experience that's unlike System Shock 2, Neuromancer, or any other 
 material in the genre. It's got a great feel, with a real good cop versus the world style, and 
 even though it hasn't aged as well as say System Shock 2, it's still very much so worth playing, 
 with one of the best stories in videogames. All the little characters have been given such loving 
 detail, it's hard to not track them as you go through levels several times, which change dynamically 
 the two or three times you're inside them.
  
  With a variety of locales, Deus Ex is a very long game - I just played through it for the umpteenth 
 time to review it, and I clocked in almost twenty-three hours of playtime. With three endings, 
 there's also reason to replay it - and beyond that, there are always multiple ways to solve the 
 problems you come across. You can even play the whole game without killing anyone (though I wouldn't 
 recommend it - it's a lot of hard work and you just change the bodies that you leave behind you 
 from 'dead' to 'unconscious') . You can always choose to be stealthy and just avoid conflict, evading 
 your enemies, opening locked doors, etc. or you can just go in guns ablazing, killing everyone 
 in sight. The AI, unfortunately, is not really up to the task of either, even by 2000 standards, 
 but it's challenging enough, particularly if you're on realistic difficult (if only because one 
 good shot to your torso or head can kill you immediately) . The Shifter mod, which I use, allegedly 
 makes the AI more competent, but I didn't notice it excessively - I would still recommend it for 
 all the other well balanced additions it includes though, from bubbles coming out flares underwater 
 to a few unique weapons and adding an alternate fire to most weapons.
  
  From an audio standpoint, Deus Ex has an excellent, ambient soundtrack that goes along in the background. 
 It's dynamic, getting more intense with combat, and it fits all the environments really well, with 
 some really great songs. Also, the voice acting is generally acceptable, though it degrades significantly 
 when you talk to less significant characters in some of the stranger locales (eg a young Parisian 
 boy sounds, for lack of a better phrase, below average) . However, the significant characters are 
 all well voiced, with all the philosophical conversations you may choose to engage in being well 
 thought out, written, and voiced.
  
  Deus Ex is easy to recommend to anyone who enjoyed System Shock 2, Bioshock, Thief, etc. - it falls 
 straight into that genre. But if you're at all into conspiracy theories, being a big fan of The 
 Iluminatus! Trilogy, Serial Experiments Lain, what have you - it's easy to recommend this as well. 
 And if you at all find yourself enjoying the occasional RPG and then the occasional FPS, then Deus 
 Ex would probably be great for you too. It's such a lengthy, compelling, complete package it's 
 hard to not recommend it to anyone who's vaguely interested in games and can tolerate its age. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robrob12345
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 3:00 am PT
Review:  It's another of the string of great gaming disappointments (like Far Cry 2 and more film spin-offs 
 than i can count) that developers couldn't match this in their oft-shamefully mainstream and substandard 
 Deus Ex 2. Still that hasn't stopped my waiting with baited breath for Deus Ex 3... One can only 
 hope and dream that the legacy is taken up by square and something beautiful is released.
  
  To summarise this truly is a groundbreaking seminal game, amazing level design, intuitive gameplay 
 with satisfying and intelligent role playing elements - something like this comes around very rarely, 
 heck, I prefer it to Half Life 1 - but only just of course... and in my view it still holds its 
 own even today - if you haven't played it till now then either it was before your time or you aren't 
 really a gamer so go play solitaire if something.
  
  Deus Ex is Cyberpunk at its best 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epochend
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Lots of people still remember Deus Ex fondly, and it's easy to see why: it fuses the FPS and RPG 
 genres in a way that no other game (including its sequel) has ever quite managed.
  
  ~
  
  Pros:
  
  + Story: Like Metal Gear Solid, this has a long, twisty plot, leading down paths 
 you'd never have thought of and maintaining a good pace of exposition right up to the end. One 
 thing this has over MGS, however, is that you can occasionally make some big choices that affect 
 how the plot turns out; and although these tend to be short-term in nature, it still makes you 
 feel like your actions have genuine consequences.
  
  + Scope: This is a big, big game, and it'll take a long time to finish even if you just steam forward 
 as fast as possible: if you explore every nook and cranny, you'll be there forever. Special mention 
 also goes to the incredible size of the locations you visit: even today, it's unbelievable just 
 how much they managed to fit into each area.
  
  + Multiple Approaches: The big selling point of the game is that you can, much like an RPG, develop 
 your character throughout the game and tailor his skills to your chosen style of play. Given the 
 huge, cleverly designed levels, and the sheer amount of items, upgrades and skills to be tinkered 
 with, you'll almost always have a good two or three ways to tackle any given problem.
  
  + Longveity: By the end, you'll doubtless want to go back and see what different plot choices would 
 have led to, or try a different approach to getting past your obstacles, or just explore the areas 
 you never got round to and see what was hidden there. This is a game you'll be returning to, guaranteed.
 
  
  + Setting: Again, like MGS, the game really fleshes out every last detail of its world, and you'll 
 be living and breathing its intricacies for as long as you're playing it. You'll also have an increased 
 disposition towards conspiracy theories by the end of it...
  
  Cons:
  
  - Poor Shooting: The action elements of the game just don't feel that satisfying, which is a bit 
 of a blow for a FPS.
  
  - Characters: There isn't a great amount of personality or emotion to the characters in the game, 
 with most of them delivering purely perfunctory dialogue that moves the plot along, but nothing 
 more. The story could have had a lot more impact if it involved characters you actually cared about, 
 making you truly think about who you should kill or not, rather than just doing what's most convenient.
 
  
  - Neglected Abilites: It's fairly inevitable given how many skills and augmentations there are, 
 but some are unquestionably more useful than others, leaving little reward for anyone who follows 
 them through. A good way to counter this would have been to offer less upgrade levels to get through 
 for certain skills, meaning you wouldn't have to neglect other areas to an unfair degree to achieve 
 their benefits.
  
  - Difficult Stealth: Because it's so hard to judge how sneaky and well hidden you are, stealth 
 can tend to be an annoying case of trial and error, which all-too often results in you having to 
 shoot your way out of trouble.
  
  - Lifeless Character Models: All of the characters in the game come across as rather stiff and 
 unresponsive, and they all have a weird way of running that doesn't seem to connect well with the 
 world around them. This is probably a big factor in why the combat is so unsatisfying...
  
  ~
  
  Deus Ex may have its flaws, and elements of the gameplay could do with improving, but 
 ultimately the game overcomes these issues by virtue of its grand ambitions. There's still nothing 
 quite like this game, and if you're after an RPG with greater direct control, or an FPS with more 
 depth and options, you'll find no better answer than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LocustWarlord
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:22 am PT
Review:  Despite being a very old game, It is clearly one of the best games ever made! Its hard to think, 
 this game uses an older version of the engine from gears of war 2! (At least I think it is...) 
 Anyway!
  
  The thing that makes this game so great is the fact that you can choose what decisions you make. 
 So whatever you do, kill it will affect the storyline in different ways. Yes. thats right! There 
 are 4 alternate endings. 1 in which you have to use cheats to see. :D
  
  Im surprised by the fact there are still mods coming in when the game is literally 10 or 9 years 
 old now! One of the major mods of course is THE NAMELESS MOD! 10 years in the making and they are 
 only just coming to completion! I however shall not be downloading it because I have lost my deus 
 ex disk amongst all my other junk. DOH! it probably found its way under my bed somehow.
  
  Anyways. I would recommend buying this game if you dont like the newer games :P
  
  Happy gaming!
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dancoia
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2009 2:43 am PT
Review:  Deus ex is a fantastic fps rpg adventure game, it has a fantastic plot that will keep you hooked 
 for hours the voice dialoge is really well written it could almost match a hollywood movie script. 
 The characters are really well done you will grow attached to jc denton and the rest of the characters 
 in the game. The gamplay is quite difficult to get used because you have to use kill points that 
 you get and spend points upgrading your weapons skills so you can use pistols or cqc weapons better 
 but this does make the game intresting. Another problem some people might have diffulcty with the 
 combat in general because its not like half life where you just keep shooting the nemy anywhere 
 on the body and they die, in deus ex you need to be good at aiming to deafeat the eneimes because 
 shooting at there chest does no damage so you need to aim for the heads or upper body to get an 
 effective kill. This does add a bit of relaism to it. Overall deus ex is a fantastic game with 
 great gameplay and a fantastci story which will keep you hooked to the game for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  Warren Spector. Though many may not immediately recognize the name, Warren Spector is one of the 
 most important game directors in the industry. His name has become a synonym of openness and liberty 
 when it comes to gameplay and narrative elements. When games were still trying to grasp linear 
 narratives and straight-forward gameplay design, Warren Spector was already going one step ahead 
 and trying non-linearity. And though he hasn't been very active in the past years, the influence 
 of his games can still be felt as of today, whether in the decision making of "Bioshock" ("to harvest 
 or not to harvest that is the question") or the variety of action approaches games like "Crysis" 
 permit.
  
  The philosophy behind "Deus Ex", as in all Warren Spector games is: "Freedom of Choice". Whether 
 one fancies stealth, vent-crawling or mindless shooting, the game allows any tactic of choice. 
 Of course, more often than not, one approach might be harder to pull off than others, and in some 
 cases, choosing one or the other bears little change in the end result. However, such boldness 
 in game design is commendable, as every level can be navigated in many, many different ways.
  
  Level design is standard fare for a 1999 game, with little information on how to navigate a 
 level, apart from a confusing map and a number of objectives. Especially considering the open-choice 
 structure of the game (which adds to the complexity of the maps) , there really aren't enough hints 
 to guide the player. Adding to that, scenarios aren't intuitive enough: cities either have huge 
 expansive environments or borderline claustrophobic ones; different floors of the same building 
 have different room configurations; structures have locked doors all around, with open entrances 
 and stairs poping-up where you'd least expect; and equipment lies almost everywhere, from bathrooms 
 to venting ducks. Most times, map design just looks plain random. It's not bad, but it certainly 
 isn't "Half-life" or "Quake 2". And though "Deus Ex" might seem like a normal day FPS on the surface, 
 the only thing it borrows from the genre is the perspective. In its core, "Deus Ex" is a run of 
 the mill western-RPG: players' reflexes and dexterity with a mouse are seldom needed, because what 
 dictates a hit or miss with a gun is the experience points each player has invested in pistol training. 
 The use of weapons, special powers and items are all dictated by choices he makes.
  
  On top of everything, as usual in an RPG, there is a plot to wrap everything up. In the future 
 depicted by "Deus Ex", the whole world is governed by a single entity: the UN. The main character 
 is JC Denton, a UN special ops soldier with a body full of cybernetic upgrades. He's the lead weapon 
 against a group of anarchist terrorists that are trying to overthrow the UN regime. Of course, 
 nothing is as it seems, and a number of plot twists will repeatedly shatter players' beliefs. There 
 are many conspiracies to be unraveled, but unfortunately, as is common in ambitious game-plots, 
 it promises more than it can deliver, with later revelations appearing out of place and being too 
 reminiscent of certain books not to call them "clichs".
  
  Most dialogues are bland, but once in a while, out of the blue, some well written political and 
 philosophical discussions emerge; too bad they don't last longer. Characters are usually linear 
 and predictable; Denton, however, seems schizophrenic, jumping from capitalist to anarchist (and 
 vice-versa) faster than a blink of an eye. Unlike the action, there are few choices to make when 
 it comes to narrative; dialog trees have mostly informative purposes and are of little consequence, 
 which ends up distancing the player from the otherwise engrossing narrative. The ending is the 
 exception, and one of the highlights of the game, proposing a tough choice to the player: decide 
 the fate of the world. And believe it or not, there's no easy choice and no happy ending. Unlike 
 Bioware's "good vs. evil" decisions, each of the choices in "Deus Ex" is completely amoral and 
 has little to do with right and wrong. If the story is in fact a mirror of its creator's soul, 
 then Warren Spector is definitely a cynic, thinking little of Man or its Civilization.
  
  Like the plot, art design and soundtrack provide a moody, gritty and dark ambiance, mixing soft 
 techno-like music with poorly lighted environments, adding a distinct flavor to this pessimistic 
 view of the future. It provides a similar background to that of movie aesthetics like "The Matrix" 
 or even "Blade Runner", it's just a shame the plot isn't nearly as well conceived as in those movies.
 
  
  All in all, "Deus Ex" is a wonderful game. Although ahead of its time, it lacks a certain layer 
 of polish in nearly all of its aspects. Gameplay could have used tweaking, and better level design 
 would have taken the game into a whole new league. Nevertheless, it is easy to apologize most of 
 its flaws considering its revolutionary nature, and the impact it continues to have on gaming today. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xado
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game on PC the day it came out and literally messed up my undergarments pretty 
 badly.
  But I didnt mind .
  For It's time Deus Ex owns anything remotely close to its style. I have prolly played this game 
 around 5 or 6 times.
  I really enjoyed Deus Ex Invisible War as well.
  I certainly hope you can pick up and throw everyone in DE3 like invisible war. There is pretty 
 much no way anything could screw up Deus Ex 3 for me even if the game sucks (which it wont) it 
 will still be an enthralling experience.
  I am Augmented up and ready to get buck
  
  Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3
  Dues Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus 
 Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3
  Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3 Deus Ex 3
  
  Too bad its a long 
 wait well in the meantime, Fallout 3 a few more times ( love it) Last Remnant (gonna give it a 
 shot- fingers crossed) FF13 , also hoping for a solid mmo to come out of nowhere, the Old Republic 
 is a long wait as well : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juk3n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Highest possible calibre, i kid you not. Deus Ex paints you a very grim picture of the world, and 
 even though this is a heavily sci-fi influenced game, nothing seems so farfetched that it detatches 
 you from the experience.
  
  Quite the contrary, you get sucked into this world very very easily. Very philosophical and quite 
 intellectual - not the actual gameplay, but the story and dialogue, i never quite experienced anything 
 like it before or since. Definetley the best game script ive ever seen, one that had me saying 
 throughout my entore playthrough "this should be a movie, it's so real, authentic, the idea is 
 so sound and believable, this should be a movie". And it probably will be.
  
  Graphics - Technically, not ahead of it's time, and you know what it could have looked a little 
 better, but it does the job, the level design is great and the engine is sound enough to immerse 
 you into this bleak version of earth. Bottom line, it works, it does all it needs to do.
  
  Sound - Voice acting on par with the best of the best, on par with the best adventure games. That 
 sort of high class voice acting you wish your favourite rpg's had , perfect really. The music was 
 also very good, this game as a package was put together perfectly. The music enhances and immerses 
 you further into your role.
  
  Gameplay - A perfect hybrid of rpg/stealth/fps - no one has done it as good since or before, totally 
 unique and wondefully implemented. We've all heard the schpeel about freedom of choice and how 
 you progress, well, this IS the first game of that kind to implement it completley into gameplay, 
 you really can choose to do things the easy way or the hard way.
  
  Not everyone will get it
  Not everyone will understand it
  Not everyone will even like it
 
  
  But those that do, that select group that BECAME JC DENTON for that initial playthrough will always 
 look back on this game with downright respect. 
  
  Juk3n 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Simply the greatest game of all time.
  
  Graphics and mechanics are dated now but still worth playing through because of its story and immersive 
 quality, it really does make you feel that you are an independant agent in the game existing...
 
  
  Story, locations, presentation and set out... are all perfect...
  
  For its time it was completely revolutionary and since no game has really come all that close to 
 surpassing it in many many ways...
  
  Truly unmissable... buy this game and play it if you haven't already. It will become your favourite 
 game of all time.
  
  The best game ever still 7 years after its initial release.
  
  
 
  
  Deus Ex 3 will be the most eagerly anticipated game ever... by anyone who has played this game... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  Well there is awful lot to say for Deus Ex, it is a great game, both action and stealth based and 
 a great depth of roleplay is included... You take the role of JC Denton, a high end agent augmented 
 with nanotech to stop the NSF, mean while the world is suffering from a disease and only cuse is 
 the Ambrosia vaccine... I will not give away any spoilers but as you start playing and progressing, 
 you will see that the story unfolding before you is just great... It spins you around and you will 
 be suprised by its twists and turns...
  
  The beautiful thing about DeusEx is that you can play in any style... The game uses xp system to 
 upgrade your skills so you can become more silent, deadlier and accurate... There are many skills 
 you can develop so that you can become a computer geek who can crack computers, hack security bots 
 or numpad locks... You can become an all round gunner who uses his guns instead of his mind and 
 shoot everything on sight, it is your choice... The dialogs are great, the story is great, roleplaying 
 elements are great... Everything is great about this game, except the graphics, which is great 
 for its time, it still looks neat... Also the Game of The Year edition offers higher resolution 
 options and multiplayer... 
  
  All in all deus ex is a great experience who likes sci fi, who likes roleplaying or just like a 
 good game... Although the graphics are a bit dated, it still offers hours of fun...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sess1on
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  If you even remotely consider yourself a gamer, you owe it to yourself to play this game at least 
 once in your lifetime.
  
  For a game almost a decade old, the art direction and graphics aren't that dated. The game, to 
 this day, still looks stunning. As with the incredibly well produced and memorable atmospheric 
 score; phenomenal. The action/RPG gameplay is highly addicting. And the replay value of the game 
 is through the roof. Just writing this review makes me want to replay it again.
  
  The narrative of Deus Ex is one of the deepest, most intricate stories in any game. It works on 
 so many levels. The fact that it's based on real conspiracies, real organizations, real places, 
 real issues, and a very frighteningly realistic vision of a very possible future, easily gives 
 Deus Ex a fail-proof recipe for a solid story that's not only entertaining, but makes you think 
 and reflects upon society.
  
  tl; dr - You need to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikhan_z
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  Set in 2050, the world is unstable, a 'Grey Death virus killing the world population and terrorist 
 forces taking control of a vaccine to cure the virus. You play as an anti-terrorist augmented agent 
 named JC Denton to combat those terrorist, as he continue his journey into the game, he gets into 
 a huge conspiracy, which has him in the centre of attention and finds secrets which control the 
 events which are occurring around the world. 
  
  Sounds interesting, however the execution of the game really puts together well. There are many 
 elements which allow you to play any mission any way you want. Further more, depending on how the 
 player interacts with NPCs or the enivornment, with have consequences from a small to big scale. 
 
  
  The game is a first person, action and adventure hybrid, which allows you to interact with other 
 characters in the game which drives the story.
  
  Firstly you are given an objective and with the huge open world, gives the player an option to 
 go anywhere he wants, the first level has you trying to enter the Statue of Liberty with locked 
 front doors. You can either find a password to gain access to a terminal or find the backway and 
 climb your way up on freight containers and crates and jump on the second level of the statue. 
 
  
  A key portion of the game has the player talking to other characters in the game, some of the characters 
 prove useful as they can give you items, which are needed to complete an objective or to help you 
 along your way. Some characters might sell you stuff. Sometimes you are offered to ask a question 
 and choices will appear, depending on the player's choice, the characters may react friendly or 
 hostile and this can change the outcome of some objectives and other people's reaction towards 
 you. 
  
  This feature plays the majority of the game. However other key elements of the game include inventory. 
 The player has limited inventory, however the freedom comes into player as Deus Ex offers over 
 15 different weapons, each weapon is classes, such as Pistols, Melee, Rifles, Heavy, etc this 
 gives the player a good option to choose from and offers the player to combat anyway they want, 
 also the player can simply sneak by the enemy and avoid combat altogether. Weapons can be improved 
 with weapon mods found throughout the level.
  
  The player can hack into computer terminals to control bots and security cameras and lock pick 
 doors, however to do this, other items include multitools to help you hack into devices and lockpicks 
 to unlock doors. You also have a Nano-key Device which allows you to collect Nano-keys and open 
 specific doors throughout the game.
  
  Other items include food and drinks which can heal the player, drugs which can harm the player 
 and other useful items which the player may find which allows you to interact in the game.
  
  With these weapons and tools comes another feature in the game, which are skills, complete 
 missions, exploring and other parts of the game awards you with skill points, these points are 
 spend on improving your skills, these range from weapon skills to hacking, medical and lock picking, 
 there a lot more skills which boost the effects of the different items you can obtain in the game. 
 
  
  Combat sets a challenge in the game, you come across extremely tough and powerful enemies later 
 on in the game.
  
  The most important part of the game, which centre around the story are Augmentations, these are 
 devices which are implanted in the main characters body and when activated, greatly enhances the 
 effects of the players ability. Good examples are running faster, having vision to see other people 
 though walls, more melee power, targeting power, etc however, the player has to pick up a canister 
 and has to choose one out of the two augmentations, each augmentation can be upgraded until up 
 to level 4, with the expectation of the light, which remains at level 1, Augmentations uses up 
 a bio-electric energy, which needs to be refill once in a while when the player runs out.
  
  The games story is the best part, there are twist and turns which drive the player completing 
 objectives and finding out what's in the Deus Ex universe, with newspapers, digital texts, emails, 
 etc Some of the stories elements have used Roman and Greeks myths as references.
  
  Unfortunately, the game has it's poor points, the game uses the Unreal Engine and with it's dark 
 theme, the graphics look poor, with simple boxes with textures stuck on them, also the techno music 
 is bland and can come across as annoying. 
  
  Despite this the gameplay with the mix of action and adventure elements and highly driven story 
 make this an excellent title to recommend, this mix has pushed the genre forward and does make 
 this hybrid game stand out from the rest. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadMuppet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Can a linear storyline be a good thing? In the case of Deus Ex, I think so. When I first got the 
 game (fairly recently) , I thought it'd be littered with moral choices and plot trees, but nah. 
 The game is very linear. There are many cases where for example:
  
  -You find out a man is a reporter
  -You talk to him a few times until your char gives him info
 
  -Your boss chews you out
  -You later find out his is an informant and are sent to kill him
  
  And example two:
  
 
  -You find out a man is a reporter
  -You stop talking to him
  -Your boss doesn't chew you out
  -You later find out he is an informant and are sent to kill 
 him
  
  And example three:
  
  -You find out a man is a reporter
  -You stop talking to him via shooting him (in the head if it pleases you)
  -Your boss doesn't 
 chew you out
  -You later find out he is an informate and your character says "i already killed him; i don't like 
 people who ask questions"
  
  See, you never actually got a dialogue option to kill him. Many things you need to work out on 
 your own and uncover yourself, rather than dialogue trees holding your hand throughout the game. 
 Don't get me wrong, there are a decent amount of them, and when there are dialogue trees, they 
 are very good and actually have consequences.
  
  As for the combat: tis' good. It's skill and skill based, so you need to level up the combat skill 
 you fancy, whether that be melee weps, pistols, heavy guns, rifles, etc. So say you start out with 
 a level 0 pistol... you're going to be inaccurate. Then you pump it up to level 3 (i think that's 
 the max level) , and you are so accurate it becomes a cakewalk to pull off headshots (i have taken 
 out entire rooms of baddies on Hard by just doing this) . So each level 3 combat skill has its perks, 
 like 3 in melee supposedly has an insta-KO if it doesn't outright kill them. This is good if you 
 like knives but don't want to be gimped with them while you can have no points in melee and kill 
 people in 1/2 hits with a dragon sword.
  
  Story is good and interesting. Good enough to merit many playthroughs without getting bored.
 
  
  Character customization gives you like 4-5 faces. Easily one to suit whatever character you make, 
 though you have sunglasses plastered to your face.
  
  Great voice acting too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: virivirivapp
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex really lives up to any positive expects from any game-player. With a wide variety of items, 
 enables Deus Ex to serve numerous of ways to complete a mission. Either you can take the hardcore 
 route and slaughter the enemy with a laser-sword or a machine gun or you can take the tour up into 
 the vent around security and hack computers to disable or bypass any technological security.
  
  For those of you who are interested in "another truth" which is presented as conspiracies, 
 this game's storyline will suit you as well as thoughts. It is close to an inspiration playing 
 Deus Ex, because it showcase's several intriguing theories about the projected truth we face in 
 our everyday life or what we hear on the news. 
  
  To the game-play, I really like the setup with the augmentations, but this also makes the game 
 very much easier. Any other gamer, as well as my self always like to have a lot of something, but 
 most augmentations I hardly use in the game. The items and guns can set off some misinterpreted 
 feelings of the games fighting simulations. It is hard to explain, but the first few minutes of 
 the game, I got a slight false feeling from the gun when I shot at the enemies.
  
  All in all, Eidos serves the game Deus Ex with cherries, blossoms and sweet scent. Deus Ex is a 
 game intended for any gamer and I would really encourage everyone to have tried this game, at least 
 once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dipset604
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 10:08 am PT
Review:  What can I say... Everything about this game is good. The story is superb. The game play is magnificent 
 . The graphics.... well, they aren't great but there is a mod that make things look nicer. The 
 story unfolds nicely and has amazing RPG elements in it that can change the game quite a bit. I've 
 played a lot of games but this game just blows me away. Even though it is 2008 you will find this 
 game fun. This game may be hard for people who aren't familiar with FPS games. If you haven't played 
 it I recommend go on Ebay and buy it. The game has a few flaws but they don't kill the game. The 
 one problem that might kill people is skill system. If you aren't a player who explores a lot you 
 will probably end up not having enough skill points to master all your skills. But I personally 
 did not have that problem. This game is eight years old so you shouldn't have a problem with the 
 price of the game, but you may have difficulty finding it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFF_Fatman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  I bought this a few years ago, having seen it mentioned once or twice in gaming magazines. I saw 
 it as a part of Sold Out's esteemed budget range for 5 and thought "hell, why not?"
  
  A few days later, I actually played it (I normally take a while to get into new games, if you get 
 what I mean, a kind of warm up period) and at first, it perplexed me. Having never played FPS-RPG 
 before, I had trouble with the combat system and felt it was very hard. Becoming tired of getting 
 killed again and again (What I get for using my 'rush-in-and-kill-everything' FPS tactic too much) 
 I switched off my PC and decided to play it another day. 
  
  The next day, I started to realise I couldn't win by nailing every enemy, I had to sneak, it took 
 a while, but eventually, I pulled it off. As I moved on, the game truly grew on me, and I realised 
 that a game that wasn't just pure blood and mayhem could actually be fun!
  
  Having completed the game a first time, I was left with an epic impression, the storyline was brilliant, 
 the characters first class, the RPG-FPS gunplay brilliant, the skill and augmentation system were 
 perfect, and in the end, the game felt brilliant.
  
  A few months later, I decided to try the game again, then I tried things differently, and was blown 
 away, I had no idea that my new choices could affect my game so much! The choices I made changed 
 the experience completely and left me gleefully looking forward to the next conversation or discovery 
 round the corner. 
  
  Since then, I've played and completed Deus Ex NINETEEN times, and every time I played it, its been 
 different, and Ive always found something new I never found before. The game is PACKED with content 
 and gameplay and will require a number of replay's just to feel sure you've found as much as you 
 can, but I believe its impossible to find everything in the game, there's too much hidden in the 
 corners if you dont look.
  
  The graphics, admittedly, are ancient, the game was released in 2000 and even then it wasnt a looker 
 compared to its peers, but the graphics are more then functional, however, graphic tards that just 
 want pretty polygons to stare at wont find anything here.
  
  To summarise, Deus Ex is a BRILLIANT blend of first person shooting, and role playing elements 
 mixed together really well with an epic storyline of conspiracy and intrigue, and characters that 
 charm, joke and terrify you with their own unique background and personalities. 
  
  Its definitely more RPG then FPS, if you love your counter strike and your halo, but hate role 
 playing in any form, this most certainly isn't for you. However, RPG gamers looking for a change 
 from the tried and true fantasy gameplay definately should give Deus Ex a try.
  
  Not to mention that the games available in the UK for a measly 5, what are you waiting for?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  so i finally got around to playing this game after hearing so much about it and decided to buy 
 it and see what the fuss is all about... and i must say, its one hell of a game.
  
  Graphics..
  Nothing special today but for its time im sure it was one of the most impressive 
 looking games out on the market..
  
  10
  
  Game play..
  The gun play i must admit took a while for me to get into but after a while i got into it and enjoyed 
 it much.. some of the little things did annoy me such as needing a lock pick for getting past a 
 door or something small like that, the enemies are smart but they don't really take cover much,. 
 so its kinda easy to pick them off.. but overall the game play really shines from this game
  
  10
  
  Story.
  i was a little confused but i think i got most of it down.. im not finished 
 with the game yet but i will be soon but overall i think the story is great
  
  9
  
  Overall its a great game.. now i know what all the fuss is about and im glad to say this is one 
 of my greatest games of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnightsofRound
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Strengths: Compelling conspiracy story; unique gameplay mechanics; freedom to play as you choose; 
 skill-based system and augmentation upgrades provide many different gameplay options and styles; 
 high replay value.
  
  Weaknesses: Clumsy AI; dated graphics; occasional trial-and-error gameplay can make certain situations 
 feel harder than they should be.
  
  Games like Deus Ex are a rarity in the current gaming world. It's not often that you find a game 
 like Deus Ex that completely pushes the boundaries of established gaming genres. Classifying Deus 
 Ex as a first-person shooter might seem appropriate at first glance, but would wind up being a 
 horrible, horrible misclassification. That doesn't necessarily mean Deus Ex would qualify as a 
 blatant role-playing game either. In all honesty, trying to assign a genre to Deus Ex is kind of 
 a fruitless endeavor because you would only be restricting yourself in what you would expect from 
 the experience. Deus Ex is as varied as you will allow yourself to think it is. If one really had 
 to classify Deus Ex as something it by all means would definitely fall into the RPG category, but 
 borrows heavily from other gaming genre mainstays like the FPS and adventure genres.
  
  So what exactly is so interesting about an eight year old PC FPS-RPG hybrid? Well that's hard to 
 say, pinpointing one exact reason would be foolish. At first glance Deus Ex doesn't really seem 
 like much, but underneath its dated graphics engine is one of the most interesting games ever created. 
 Deus Ex takes place in the year 2052 in a bleak dystopian future where a large portion of society 
 lives in complete poverty. You take control of nano-augmented agent JC Denton who has just begun 
 working for the United Nations' Anti-Terrorist Coalition (UNATCO) . Soon after you commence the 
 game you'll see that the society of the future isn't too welcoming, as homeless people wander the 
 streets, and Rebel faction's operate frequently under the nose of the government. You'll even soon 
 learn about a disease known as the "Gray Death" which is ravaging the world's population, with 
 the vaccine seemingly only distributed among the government and the wealthy. As always, things 
 aren't always as they seem, and eventually some of the game's many plotwists will take effect, 
 and JC Denton will have to decide who he can trust, and what he needs to do. Deus Ex largely revolves 
 around real-world conspiracy theories and the game takes place in fictionalized futuristic versions 
 of real-world locations, such as New York, Hong Kong, Paris, and even Area 51.
  
  The main attraction of Deus Ex is the freedom of choice. There are so many different ways to go 
 about your objectives that no two people will ever have the exact same experience playing through 
 the story. On many occasions completing every objective isn't even necessary, and by skipping objectives 
 you can actually change the way the story progresses. There is naturally a set path that the narrative 
 takes, and it always winds up in the same place, but the way you go about getting there can always 
 be different.
  
  As an example, one of the first things you will notice is that many of the conversations you can 
 have with the game's NPCs generally always have several different options of text for you to choose 
 to reply with. Whatever you choose to answer with will change the course of the conversation, and 
 the game world can and will change based on what you have selected in these conversations. This 
 is not only evident in conversations, but also evident in mission objectives too. Many characters' 
 lives are in your hands, and depending on how you go about your objectives, these characters may 
 live or die based on what you do, without you even realizing it at first. Because of this, whether 
 a character lives or dies can completely change certain aspects of the story as it unfolds further 
 into the game. These are part of the benefits of playing Deus Ex multiple times because you may 
 not have even realized the first time that said character can live instead of being killed off 
 in the first half of the game.
  
  One of the most interesting factors of Deus Ex is the player's ability system. From the main menu 
 screen you will be shown a skill menu with several different abilities that you can upgrade with 
 skill points. Regardless of the fact that JC Denton is a nano-augmented agent working under the 
 United Nations, he won't be good at anything until you upgrade his natural abilities. This is part 
 of what makes the world of Deus Ex believable, because going up against ten enemy soldiers at once 
 isn't exactly an easy feat until you've had advanced training with certain abilities, and have 
 several augmentations activated. A perfect example is that the first choice you have to make in 
 Deus Ex is choosing an additional weapon from your brother Paul Denton to take with you on your 
 first mission. Do you take the mini-crossbow for silent take downs, the sniper rifle for long-distance 
 combat, or the rocket launcher which would come in handy against enemy mechs. If you choose the 
 sniper but have gone untrained in the rifles category, sniping your enemies will prove to be a 
 frustrating and difficult task. There are many abilities, including but not limited to: computers, 
 swimming, pistols, heavy weapons, rifles, low-tech weaponry, lock picking, electronics, and many 
 others. Maybe you want to be an elite computer hacker and control enemy turrets, and shut off security 
 cameras? Improving your computer skill can let you do this. You can even hack ATM machines and 
 steal money from them.
  
  The skill system can lend itself to be frustrating to newcomers because they may not be used to 
 the traditional elements of RPGs where your character isn't really any good at anything until you 
 upgrade their abilities. Whereas in a regular shooter the character is really as good with weapons 
 as the players' own abilities. In Deus Ex the skill system has four levels, untrained, trained, 
 advanced, and mastered. An untrained agent is clumsy and relatively incompetent with this ability 
 but can use its basic abilities. A trained agent can use these abilities slightly more efficiently 
 but pulling off a clean headshot with a sniper rifle still won't be a cake walk. It isn't really 
 until you reach the advanced level where JC Denton will really shine with a particular ability, 
 such as being able to alter gun turrets to target his enemies instead of himself with the computer 
 skill, or being able to have perfectly steady hands with a sniper rifle with the rifles skill. 
 It's at this point where you will really start to define who you want JC Denton to be, based on 
 your playing style, as you decide which abilities you want to increase to the advanced and mastered 
 levels while leaving the others behind.
  
  Skills are not the only thing you'll have to decide on while playing through Deus Ex, seeing as 
 how JC Denton is a nano-augmented agent, you will be able to find and install various augmentations 
 into certain parts of JC Denton's body to enhance his abilities. JC Denton can install a total 
 of nine different augmentations, and each time you install an augmentation you'll have to choose 
 one out of two different upgrades that will be installed permanently. For example, you'll have 
 to decide whether you want to have the ability to run perfectly silently, or have increased speed 
 and jumping height and distance. Choosing run-silent will allow you to be much stealthier and grant 
 you the ability to sneak up on foes for a silent take-down. On the other hand, with the increased 
 speed and jumping ability you are granted to ability to quickly evade opponents, rush them for 
 a quick attack, and even dodge some of their attacks. You can even try pulling off some fancy Matrix-esque 
 roof-jumping stunts if you manage to get it to the max level, by jumping from roof top to roof 
 top in certain locations. This is just one of many unique abilities, and there are a ton of different 
 ways that you can combine your augmentations based on your own playing style.
  
  When it comes to the actual game itself, Deus Ex does follow a linear path. That being said, the 
 way you walk this path is completely up to how you want to play, and the choices you choose to 
 make. All of the pieces are in place to allow the player nearly complete freedom to go about however 
 they so choose to, and that's a part of what makes Deus Ex such a unique and compelling game.
 
  
  As is the case with all video games, Deus Ex does have some flaws. The most noticeable is that 
 the graphics engine is horribly dated. That being said, Deus Ex was already starting to look somewhat 
 dated in the year of its release. Regardless of this fact, if you've ever enjoyed any older games, 
 then you shouldn't have too much trouble adjusting to Deus Ex's dated appearance. The old saying 
 remains true though, graphics don't necessarily indicate the quality of the game's gameplay, and 
 that is entirely true with Deus Ex. One of the most troubling factors of Deus Ex that can deter 
 from the gameplay experience is that the AI can often behave in some bizarre ways. Enemies tend 
 to "dance" when they engage you in combat, by firing at you while running in circles. It's kind 
 of weird at first, but eventually you get used to it. Even then, combat in Deus Ex for the most 
 part is completely optional, but it can occasionally be frustrating to engage an enemy when they 
 behave in such an odd manner. Another factor which from personal experience remains true throughout 
 the majority of the game is the trial and error gameplay. This generally is only applied to combat 
 situations, but there will be numerous times where you will be confronted with what appears to 
 be an impossible situation, which will take you many different attempts until you find one that 
 works for you. This can occasionally be a little bothersome, and at times can make the game feel 
 slightly unforgiving. It must be stated though, that even Deus Ex's flaws can occasionally deter 
 from ones enjoyment of the game, they are generally largely inconsequential to ones enjoyment of 
 the experience as a whole.
  
  Fortunately Deus Ex will provide you with an audio experience that is relatively pleasing to the 
 ears. This is mostly prominent in the game's musical score which is mostly consistent and entertaining 
 throughout. The most noticeable themes would definitely have to be the Main Title theme, the Hong 
 Kong Streets theme, and the Paris Combat tune. The voice acting in Deus Ex is for the most part 
 solid, but you'll find that often certain minor characters sound incredibly bizarre. This is most 
 noticeable in Hong Kong and Paris, where a large portion of the population all suffer from cliche 
 accents that apply to their specific country. This is understandable, and when done right can help 
 immerse the player in the game, but occasionally the voice acting is just down right bad. Thankfully 
 the main cast is all mostly very well acted, and the script remains solid and interesting throughout
 
  
  When it comes down to it, Deus Ex admittedly has some faults, but the entire experience as a collective 
 whole goes above and beyond these faults which in the grand scheme of things, are minor and inconsequential 
 to one's enjoyment of this amazingly intricate game. If you've ever felt like current games were 
 lacking something in the imagination department, then Deus Ex is definitely a game you'll want 
 to play. The conspiracy-themed storyline is engaging and compelling, and you'll genuinely find 
 yourself wanting to uncover the mysteries behind the evil plots of the corrupt government organizations. 
 Who knows, maybe along the way you'll even uncover the origins of the Illuminati, or find the centuries-old 
 gold of the Knights Templar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  People can talk all they want about Half-Life but I was not very impressed.
  The only game that even comes close to this one for being the greatest revolution in FPS games 
 is System Shock 2.
  I feel that Deus Ex is just a little better than SS2 though.
  It is amazing that this game is so much like the real world.
  If you are not having much luck 
 killing someone... Try stealth and avoid him... If that does not work Use some bots to help you.... 
 If that does not work try hacking in at another spot... If that does not work.... well you get 
 the idea.
  This is the ultimate Sandbox game. This is the kind of game that makes me glad to be a gamer. Wish 
 they still made killer games like this today.
  Everyone can talk about profits all they want but I think the game industry is in serious trouble. 
 The indie studios are the ones that give us the most awesome games. Too bad they are all going 
 out of business.
  The big 4 companies keep drolling out the same boring crap year after year.
  That is of course 
 $ony, M$, Nintendo and Stupid EA.
  I personally feel that they are all going the wrong direction and are seriously hurting the gaming 
 industry as a whole.
  Guess I got a little side tracked there.
  Anyway check out this game and you will not regret it.
  Best FPS game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link1989_gs
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  How I loved this game, I bought this as a second hand game and boy, I feel like ripped off the 
 company. The whole concept of this game is ingenious; I mean, RPG meets first person shooter it's 
 just excellent. The story is so immersive and can be shaped like putty or clay to the way you want 
 it to come out, like if you go into the women's washroom or something, your boss will tell you 
 to please stay out of there. The inventory was a little small, yes, but it didn't matter, I was 
 able to carry around what I needed to use. I loved the abilities you could choose from as well 
 as the skills you could upgrade. The A. I. is just excellent, I mean sure, there's the occasional 
 little bump where something doesn't come out right, but aside from that it's just excellent, fire 
 fights are such a challenge. The various ways to complete objectives is extraordinary. It's an 
 evenly paced game that makes you think. Really, you must play it, there's no excuse not to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindboy19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  I recently played Deus Ex, having tried a demo of it out when it first came out and not thinking 
 much of it. However, people always tell me I *need* to play this game, so I finally gave it a shot. 
 
  
  I found myself continually asking myself, 'why the hell did I not play this game earlier, when 
 the graphics were cutting edge and I would have gotten a fuller experience?' The more I played 
 this game, the more I found myself completely captivated by the fantastic world, the cool characters, 
 the player choices that impacted the storyline, and the generally awesome, albeit campy feel to 
 it all. It uses what limited capabilities it has to provide great storytelling, and it has aged 
 well, despite graphics that reek of the 90s. If I were to pin one fault on it, it would be that 
 it drags on a bit at times, but even then, that is excusable because it's a downright great game 
 that gets storytelling right.
  
  To try to liken this game to any other game out there, I'd have to say it's the teenage cousin 
 of System Shock 2 with it's cyberpunk story, RPG-FPS style character system, and general feel, 
 although I see System Shock 2 as the more mature cousin, akin to the Alien of the gaming world, 
 whereas Deus Ex is more akin to a William Gibson novel. Even so, it stands as one of the most impressive 
 examples of storytelling via gameplay to this date.
  
  The game takes place in the near future, where a genetically engineered plague is ravaging the 
 planet, and the treatment is only available from an evil megacorporation who sells it for ridiculous 
 prices to politicians and rich people for influence and political favors. Your character is JC 
 Denton, a relatively nondescript cardboard cut out UNATCO special agent trying to protect evil 
 corporate interests by stopping urban terrorists from stealing the cure and giving it to the unwashed 
 masses. As the game progresses, you get to know the characters through elaborate conversations 
 that are effected by your actions in game, and despite relatively bad voice acting, you find yourself 
 sympathizing with many of the characters through said conversations, as well as the ability to 
 hack private emails like a creepy stalker. The NPC development is nowhere near the level of depth 
 available in games such as Mass Effect, but it's still pretty good. Despite other characters being 
 fully interesting, your character remains a cardboard cutout throughout the game, lacking any real 
 personality save for the important choices that are left to the character. Furthermore, multiple 
 endings are a nice touch, and the game incorporates very different endings, allowing you to directly 
 choose the path you wish to follow.
  
  As the game progresses, you begin to find out the truth about UNATCO, the organization you've been 
 working for, and the truth about the Versalife, the evil corporation. As you continue to work your 
 way through the game, you are faced with a number of difficult decisions, as well as some interesting 
 consequences for actions- for example, noticing something strange and investigating it may result 
 in a character living or dying, or a more mundane and humorous example involves being chastised 
 by your commander at a briefing if you enter an occupied woman's restroom. The choices and high 
 quality storytelling drive the game forward well through a number of varied locales, with missions 
 ranging from stealthy black ops, free for all combat, infiltration, and even social missions. There 
 are also a number of side quests to follow, although few of them are incredibly relevant to the 
 game, and most of them involve talking to people who are sitting on other sides of the area- you'd 
 think in the future they'd have cell phones, but apparently not. 
  
  The gameplay itself is a little clumsy at times, but overall very good. The incorporation of body 
 damage is a nice touch- if you get full damage on your head or torso, you are dead- but if both 
 of your legs are fully damaged, you simply drag your body along at a snails pace until a medkit 
 miraculously restores your severed limbs. Your character is continually augmented by nanotech enhancements, 
 and as the game progresses, you have the ability to customize your character further. Personally, 
 I chose to be a stealth based hacker, but the options are relatively limitless. 
  
  The combat is rather good, although there is a full range to the game. There are a number of different 
 weapons, ranging from a guided missile launcher to the Asian equivalent of a lightsaber. Still, 
 at times the combat can be a bit clumsy, and there are enemies that are overly annoying, such as 
 Greasels, which are like the dinosaur that killed Nedry in Jurassic park- little green genetically 
 engineered dinosaurs that spit acid. Not only are they very hard to hit, they have dead on aim, 
 and blind you with the acid. There are also spider robots that are ridiculously annoying to kill 
 due to their small size, but thankfully they are relatively rare, as are the greasels. The AI is 
 not particularly impressive, but it gets the job done. 
  
  One of the things that I really appreciated about this game was the freedom. Every problem has 
 about 5 solutions- a door stands in your way. You could hack it, or find a PDA on a guard's desk 
 with his login to the computer lock on the door, or you could shoot a missile at the door, or you 
 could sneak around the vents and find a back way in. Much of the game operates in this way, giving 
 the player a large amount of freedom to find a style of play, and customize the character for it. 
 
  
  The graphics in this game are rather decent quality, although at times they are a bit too blocky. 
 However, the feel of the cyberpunk future is not sacrificed, as many of the areas have a very appropriate, 
 dark feel to them. Some areas, however, in particular Hong Kong, seem just slightly offensive, 
 as the characters all speak with painfully bad Asian accents, and the entire level seems to detract 
 from the whole story by seeming like it was stolen from a 70s Kung Fu movie. The voice acting is 
 another area that desperately needs help- System Shock 2 was the massive success in storytelling 
 thanks to the phenomenal voice acting. Deus Ex, on the other hand, has voice acting that sounds 
 untrained at best, and like a 7 year old with mental disabilities at worst, which ruins the great 
 writing. Despite this, though, you find yourself genuinely caring for the characters, showing that 
 bad voice acting doesn't ruin the game completely. 
  
  Another point worth mention is the music- it's quite good. I'm listening to the soundtrack right 
 now, and many of the songs are rather catchy, although the sound is somewhat primitive at times. 
 
  
  For bad points, I can think of very few. For the most part, Deus Ex hits the nail straight on the 
 head. The voice acting is terrible, the game lasts a little too long, and... and... and... Greasels. 
 I hate the little bastards.
  
  In any case, if you haven't played Deus Ex, and you like games that don't suck, check it out. It's 
 definitely worth the time, and while it may drag on at times, it's a great example of in game storytelling 
 at its best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfsebastianII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  There's already quite a few reviews of this game, but I thought it useful to give the perspective 
 of someone playing it in 2008. I came to Deus Ex from playing two up-to-date (at the time of writing) 
 games: Bioshock and Stalker. 
  
  The latter game in particular had given me a taste for another RPG/FPS hybrid, so I got Deus Ex, 
 which I once owned previously but didn't like. At the time I was very much an FPS fan, playing 
 UT etc relentlessly. Now I'm into a more combined type of game. Deus Ex definitely qualifies  
 it has a genuinely intriguing plot, plenty of suspense and a good use of augmentations, skill levels 
 and different weapon choices and upgrades to keep you thinking.
  
  It takes you to several locations  Hong Kong, Paris - though you mainly stay within one small 
 area. It's always dark, Blade-Runner-like, and there's a fair bit of stealth involved, though actually 
 you can also fight your way through most situations also.
  
  I played it on the hardest setting, and didn't find it too difficult, and that was despite not 
 using the augmentations most of the time, so if that aspect sounds too fiddly, I wouldn't worry 
 about it too much.
  
  You're constantly presented with choices  who to kill/who not to kill etc, and at the end you 
 have one big three-way choice to make.
  
  The graphics hold up fairly well in my opinion, although the shadows and skies have a greenish 
 hue which doesn't look right.
  
  The characterisation is fairly good, the AI a little more variable. It's one of those games where 
 you can blow something up 50 metres away from someone and they won't notice.
  
  There's a good range of enemies  and also friends  some of whom you're not sure you can trust.
 
  
  You also get your money's worth  the game is very long, too long in fact, and this is one of its 
 drawbacks  I spent the last 3-4 levels constantly thinking  'this must be the last one'  at 
 the end it was 'PLEASE make this the last one' because no matter how good a game is, you CAN get 
 tired of it  Unreal being the classic example.
  
  Another drawback are the actual 'shooter' aspects  some of the weapons (the autorifle and shotgun 
 in particular) look a bit toy-ish, and only the rocket launcher is really satisfying to use.
  
  Movements aren't very slick and generally it's not very satisfying having shootouts.
  
 
  Despite this, I really enjoyed the game, until near the end as mentioned above.
  
  But if you've not played it and you're into trying a stealthy RPG/FPS then I think it's definitely 
 worth giving a go.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This will always be in my top ten forever.
  
  It does everything correctly and everything it does is awesome. That is the short version.
  
 
  The longer version:
  JC Denton is the main character and who you play, he is an augmented new generation of Nano-tech 
 soldier whose training and augmentations allow him to jump higher, run faster, hit harder than 
 a regular person and a 2nd generation augmentation soldier/agent. Basically you are a superman 
 that can control how you play, take out objectives. I shall talk about that first.
  
  The nano-tech is one aspect of the game that gives it high replay value if nothing else in the 
 game takes you (which i would find hard to beleive) . As the game progress's you find canisters 
 that allow you to upgrade parts of your body such as legs, arms, heart, lungs, head, eyes, feet, 
 hands, chest... i think thats the lot. And each upgrade gives you 2 options such as the Lungs allows 
 you to pick EITHER aqua lung that gives you a longer ability to breathe underwater for longer OR 
 an ability to breathe in hazardous chemicals.
  Each upgrade has 4 levels so the more you upgrade them, the better they work and give more options. 
 Such as your eyes could allow you night-vision, then upgraded to nightvision+infrared, then NV+IF+sonar 
 (see through walls) THEN NV+IF+Sonar+stronger Sonar.
  
  Along with the Augmentations, you gain skill points for completing objectives. These skill points 
 can be spent on skills to increase your general abilities so that they unlock other abilities once 
 upgraded by spending more points into it. So a skill starts on untrained with basic ability at 
 performing tasks, if you upgraded it becomes Trained, then Advanced then Master. 
  An example would be computer skills where at first you can hack into a computer system, if you 
 upgrade its a more secure hack, upgraded again you can hack+control security to an extent, upgraded 
 to hack+security+turrets and bots! 
  Computers and electronics and lockpicking and demolitions all mix it up with your choice of weapon 
 skills. Heavy, Rifles, Pistols, Demolition are all fine but the most fun being Low-Tech which is 
 fire extinguishers, throwing knives, pepper spray, tasers... it goes on and on and coming up with 
 ways to neutralize your oponents, giving you that reload factor as it goes wrong or wonderfully 
 right so you want to do it again. Oh i will say this, it is possible to go through the entire game 
 without killing (nearly all of) your enemies.
  
  So yea, there are many many many options to play JC Denton but the real reason to play is the story. 
 It truly is amazing and in-depth. Seriously multi-layered with hundreds of additional text to read 
 if you feel like it. There is actually a fictional book in the game that if you find all of the 
 chapters you end up reading a full sized book that i guess, inspired some of the story telling 
 within the game.
  
  As an agent of UNATCO you find yourself fighting terrorists and working for the goverment on various 
 tasks. This quickly slips into a strong mix of conspiracy and hypocrisy mixed with a dash enviromental 
 issues and a pinch of working Vs upper class. There are so many references to history that you 
 are actually learning about American history and French history as you play. To make this game 
 even more awesome, the voice acting is seriously great. It does not ever seem camp or lame or weak, 
 its full of expression and cool and just done perfectly. I can still hear JCs voice whenever i 
 want to and his voice is just one of many many great actors in this game. 
  I will not and refuse to talk about the plot any further because i believe it deserves your full 
 attention and i will not ruin it for you.
  
  Along with the endless combinations of customisation and the great dialogue and masterfull prose, 
 you play and fight around the most amazing locations. From the ruined statue of Liberty, to the 
 streets of Hells Kitchen in NY, to the back streets of Hong Kong, to the corporate towers, to various 
 military bases you are never left feeling you have ever been in these places before. Finding the 
 most sneaky ways into these locations and around these locations becomes an art. The most obvious 
 way is not always the best and there is always at least 1 other if not 2-4 ways into and around 
 these locations giving you again, more and more options.
  
  I truly love this game, its far too big to include everything i want to say and i feel i have gone 
 on a little too much so i will leave it and make your soul decide if it wants enriched. Get this 
 game to save your gaming spirit, get it to increase its strength and get it so you can include 
 yourself in an fraternity of players who have played it before you. Buy it and play it right now. 
 Please.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenolie
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  If you are a conspiracy theorist this game is for you. If you like dark future settings this game 
 is for you. Basically, Deus Ex sucks you into its world of cyber punk intrigue and spits you out 
 as one very happy and satisfied PC Gamer.
  
  The game has a great story. Wonderful twists and turns. Multiple endings, which I actually wanted 
 to see. For it's time it was a perfect combination of an action rpg and a shooter.
  
  The graphics were pretty good. Not cutting edge but more than enough to immerse you into the gritty 
 future of Deus Ex.
  
  Quite simply Deus Ex is one of those games that makes you glad that you're a gamer. You can put 
 it up there with other great games like X-Com, Diablo, Civ, God of War. 
  
  Unfortunately lightning didn't strike twice here. The sequel doesn't quite live up to the lofty 
 gaming experience of Deus Ex. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepwninator
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex is, quite simply, one of the best PC games of all time (and, with certain mods, such as 
 Shifter, it is even better) . Its storyline is stellar; it is both extremely intricate and extremely 
 deep, and its gameplay, though not quite as deep as the story, is stellar. 
  
  Deus Ex perfectly incorporates RPG elements and FPS elements to create a sense of a living, dynamic 
 world in a manner the likes of which I have, quite honestly, never seen before. The level design, 
 too, is superb, giving just the right degree of difficulty without making the game frustrating.
 
  
  If there is one thing I dislike about Deus Ex, it is the underplaying of the RPG aspects-there 
 is no "epically phat lewt" without the use of mods, nor are side quests as common as I would like, 
 nor are the augmentations as... cool as I would want them to be.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roosteraxe1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Immersion. That's the best way to describe Deus Ex. Not in the way you interact with an unimportant 
 object in the environment, but in how you play through the entire game. You get to choose how you 
 want to play. Do you sneak through that rebel base, or do you go in guns a blazin? Will you pick 
 that lock and sneak in silently, or just blow the door with a bomb and kill everyone in the room? 
 Add to this that your skillset is pretty much completely customizable with a good roleplaying-style 
 upgrade system and you have a game and character that you're invested in. The choices don't end 
 there either. Your interactions with other characters can alter the way future missions are going 
 to turn out. Will you buy the guy at the tavern a round or two or not? The decision could mean 
 the difference between getting the code to the top secret enemy base and having to crawl through 
 the sewers and fight your way in. Every part of this game is filled with these type of choices. 
 Some truly aren't that important, but others could be detrimental to success. Few games have ever 
 immersed me the way this one has. To this day I haven't found a shooter that can top it. Not even 
 the great, but not as good sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jack_Force
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Ever since I heard about this game I knew it was going to be great the graphics looked awesome 
 (for 2000) the story was intriguing and the fact you had a choice for how you wanted to play through 
 the game depending on your preferred play style.
  
  You take the lead role and at the biggining of the game have to rescue a captive, but before that 
 you have to choose your basic skills and a weapon. Basically these choices help you with your style 
 of play you can make your character focus on stealth and give him hacking or lockpicking skills 
 to move around un noticed or weapons skills so he can walk into a room shooting. Either way allows 
 you to achieve your goal it's just a case of what you want to do. 
  
  Once you do the first mission the story starts to take off leading you deeper into the plot taking 
 you to a variety of locations hells kitchen, military facilities, sewers, high tech cooperation 
 buildings, city's. 
  
  The game also allows you to augment your character with abilities such as super strength, invisibility, 
 the ability to see through walls and many more. This is the future after all any along with physical 
 enhancements theres also robots and genetic experiments to encounter. Having said that it still 
 feels close enough to the present day as not to be too star war''s, terminator, blade runnery and 
 once you get into the story it'll will be hard to play anything else until you complete this masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Ahh, Deus Ex. This is IMO still the best game of the 00's. There are so many great things about 
 this game, I'll explain those later in the review, let's get started.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  - Wow. Just wow. Talk about player choice & freedom. I'll admit, the combat 
 is not the best thing ever made, but everthing else makes up for it. I'll use an example here: 
 You have orders to capture this leader of a 'terrorist' organisation, when you reach him, you could:
 
  1) Open fire on sight, and kill him easily.
  2) Talk to him, and wait until your fellow agent interrupts, then you have two options: A) Keep 
 talking, and your fellow agent will shoot the guy. B) Shoot *your fellow agent*. Now how many FPS 
 games let you kill your buddies and change the storyline based on that? You could even kill the 
 agent before she even arrives by placing a mine on her path.
  Oh and BTW, Deus Ex is a hybrid of FPS/RPG. Meaning that the combat & action is like your standard 
 FPS, but it has skill points. And immersion. And player choice. You could shoot your way through, 
 or you could go through and air went and bypass your enemies. You could hack a security turret 
 and use that to kill your enemies. You could snipe your enemies using a sniper rifle, a silenced 
 pistol or a mini-crossbow. You could just run through if you had enough armor and are fast enough. 
 You see, there are almost no situation in the game where you have to do a particular situation 
 in a single way, or go through a single path. You don't *have* to kill almost anyone to complete 
 the game, only a couple of bosses. And using glitches, you could complete the whole game without 
 dealing damage to anyone at all. The game is still one of the most open ended FPS's to date.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 10/10
  - This game has the best and deepest storyline in any game, 
 ever. It even puts 90% of movie storylines to shame. It has more conspiracies, twists and turns 
 than you can count. The atmosphere is really, really perfect. You can really feel like you are 
 *in* there, you are JC, you are making a difference to so many people's lives. Only game that is 
 more immersive than Deus Ex is Thief: The Dark Project. These two are IMO, the best games ever 
 made, period.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  - Yes, they look outdated. But if you are going to compare 8 year old graphics to Crysis, you are 
 an idiot. The graphics don't bother me at all, this is one of the few games (again with Thief) 
 that has an unique look, which makes the graphics look good even after many years.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  - Just for the music. Sound effects are ok, and the voice acting is just classic, 
 especially on the main character, JC. But it's the music that really makes the game perfect. Composed 
 by Alexander Brandon, the guy who made music for games like Jazz Jackrabbit. He really did an excellent 
 job. I usually don't keep music in games, just for the immersion. Deus Ex is one of the exceptions. 
 The music is very unique and I don't think the game would be the same without it.
  
  Physics: 6/10
  - Just basic stuff. But the game doesn't really need top of the line physics to 
 be good IMO. I would've gave it a 5, but the fact that you can jump on someones head and break 
 his neck that way (and your legs too, usually) is just too great.
  
  Replay value: 10/10
  - I have played this game oh-so many times. Multiple player choices, many different paths, many 
 different ways to solve problems, many different skills, multiple difficulty levels, self-made 
 challenges (for example: use only melee, don't kill anyone, don't ever heal yourself, don't use 
 biomods eg) ... Just make this game a great one to play again and again. And the game is LONG, I 
 mean REALLY long.
  
  Value for money: 10/10
  - Given that you could probably get this game these days for under 20-10 , it's just a must buy. 
 I would even pay full price for this, no discussion. Perhaps even more than full price.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - I've never had any bugs or crashes. Though it won't perform 
 well on a computer from 2000, most modern computers can run it with full settings no problem.
 
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Oh yes it will be! It is already regarded as a very classical game by many old school gamers. 
 I think this is one of the games that changed the industry, so I think it will be remembered for 
 a VERY long time.
  
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Anyone who enjoyes an open ended RPG's and FPS's and has enough patience... Console kids can 
 hit the road and get back to their Halo, CoD & Bioshock.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Lets give this game some credit. Deus Ex is one of the first immersive FPS games that grew into 
 the Genre we know and love today. A solid game like the original Half-life, but with a open-endedness 
 like an RPG. Stealth through a mission or blast through. We take it for granted now, but Deus Ex, 
 System Shock and the like were the champions of the FPSRPG. If you liked this game check out Anachy 
 online. It's free.
  
  As graphics get better, who cannot help but notice that the female lead in most of our video games 
 has a great ass. It all startred with Lara Croft, who was so pixelated, that mentioning it was 
 a little embarassing. Now, especially with HD, gamers of all ages can apprecitate the gratuitous 
 tang that comes with our video games nowadays. So I propose that the next evolution of video games 
 will be Video Game Porn, or VGP as I will be the first to coin this phrase. I cannot wait for the 
 corny plots and bad music.... oh wait video games already have that.
  
  Don't fear the reaper..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: garey017
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  It's been several years since I've played Deus Ex, but it still stands out in my mind as one of 
 the best games I've ever played, if not THE best. Deus Ex succesfully mixes RPG, first-person action 
 and adventure. It's done so well that even if just ONE of those genres attracts you, you'll quite 
 possibly end the game liking all of them. The storyline is excellent, and one great thing about 
 the game that I remember is that the game can go in completely different directions depending on 
 decisions you make. It's a long game, and the fact that you can start over, make different decisions 
 and have a different experience adds to the replayability. However, those decisions don't come 
 until a little late in the game, so if you don't keep your save point, you'll have to play much 
 of the game over again to get there. Is this game a perfect 10??? I don't know, but it's definitely 
 in the upper 9's. And since I'm restricted to either 9.5 or 10 because of the dumbing down of the 
 reviews, I'll gladly give Deus Ex the benefit of the doubt and give it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Raven92
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  This game is really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, good.
  
  I got this game... like yesterday... and I've played it like, for the whole time. And I still haven't 
 finished it. That's because in Deus Ex there is so much to do. It's no short story either. It has 
 a lengthy story that will keep you entrapped until the end. You'll also find, that thanks to your 
 awesome hacking abilities, you will be able to access characters email accounts (and also ATM machines 
 XD ) and read about interesting personal quarrels, and even some locations and secret passwords 
 to various things. And that just isn't in a limited area. You'll find ATM's, Computer Panels, the 
 works, all around the HUGE world of Deus Ex. 
  
  You see, Deus Ex isn't an entirely free roaming game. There are missions, but inside the missions, 
 you're free to do whatever you like and adventure through the large areas, taking up extra assignments 
 - or, if it floats your boat, disobeying direct orders from HQ, just to see the consequences.
 
  
  You can interact with almost everything in the environment, interact with a huge number of characters, 
 and travel through the immense story which ever way you wish - as the silent assassin, peace keeper, 
 the sneaker, or the trigger happy bastard. Deus Ex is a game that truly lets you play the way you 
 want to play, and do what you want to do, which ultimately, places Deus Ex as one of my favorites.
 
  
  If you see this around, don't hesitate to buy it. Sure, the graphics are outdated, but I guarantee 
 that you will enjoy this game to its maximum potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azu32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The story of Deus Ex is quite complex when you get into it, but I'll keep it as simple as possible. 
 You play as JC Denton. That's not your real name, you set your real name at the start so you see 
 it mentioned occasionally. You've just started working for UNATCO, an organization set primairily 
 to combat terrorists. As you work with fellow agents though, you'll quickly discover things aren't 
 quite as simple as they seem... Maybe those terrorists are doing the right thing? Who's really 
 influencing UNATCO? While your choices through the game don't edit the storyline too much, its 
 still one of the most interesting stories your going to see in video games.
  
  It unfortunately gets worse- Deus ex suffers from several serious design issues. For starters, 
 the game lacks a checkpoint system. While it is understandably tricky to include a checkpoint system 
 with so many paths to take, they could of at least tried to include one. A weak checkpoint system 
 is better than no checkpoint system, so you'll have to save very often. The level design tends 
 to be interesting as well, though it can be tough to keep track of where you are at times, especially 
 since the maps your given during the game are rather lackluster and don't show where your current 
 location is. ALL of these design issues could of been fixed quite easily!
  
  
  I like more the second one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Realmjumper
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex is a combination of releasing at the right time and having a very talented grouip of people 
 come together, for something special. No other game has managed to captivate the immersion factor 
 in a single player futuristic dystopian world. 
  
  The gameplay itself is unique and borrows from pass success of System Shock and Thief series. Deus 
 Ex is best summed up as a sublime first person immersive experience. The storyline is nothing short 
 of epic and grip you and make you want to play till you complete the journey.
  
  Really there is no reason why you shouldn't play this game. Even though it came out nearly 8 years 
 ago (2000) it's still my #1 all time game, in any platform. Long live Deus Ex! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LauLS
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  One of the reason I started playing this game was I was told by my friends that this game was excellent.
 
  When I played the game, which is now 9 years old, I noticed some bad things about this game, the 
 Artificial Intelligence is stupid compare to First Person Shooter Artificial Intelligence nowadays. 
 They did not hide and shoot, cooperate together like Halo series, Half-Life 2 and F. E. A. R Artificial 
 Intelligence. They chased you like an idiot even with "Hardest" difficulty. But I understand why 
 the game is like that. Basically it is 9 years old it is the same with the Artificial Intelligence 
 in the first Half-life. If you can bear this problem, this game is full of fun!!!!
  Although it is a First Person Shooter game, it has RPG elements in it. You can upgrade parts of 
 your body depending of how you want to play the game. Besides that, you can upgrade your speed, 
 strength and hacking level. This is important in the some parts of the game, because it helps overcome 
 the "obstacle" easily in the game.
  One of the fun parts of the game, you can "almost" do anything you want. The game does not give 
 you a straight road such as games like Half-life series, Halo series. You can do anything you want 
 to complete a mission, as long as you complete the mission. :D if you want to progress. You can 
 do "evil" stuffs too. (Spoilers) Either it will affect the game greatly, I cannot tell you. 
 
  The last and the most important reason this game is a masterpiece and as good as games like Half-life 
 is it has wonderful storyline. This game is full of suspense. I just want to tell you the story!!!!! 
 But no, I will not spoil the game. :D Enjoy the game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  My experiences with Deus Ex have been quite weird to say the least. At first, I simply started 
 out the wrong way with it since I approached it in the wrong fashion (Like a standard FPS- what 
 was I thinking?) . But when I came back for another go, I saw what was really good about Deus ex 
 when I approached it differently, puting a higher value on precision over mad shooting. But despite 
 all of the game's good ideas and decent execution, its all clouded over by way too many stupid 
 design issues.
  
  The story of Deus Ex is quite complex when you get into it, but I'll keep it as simple as possible. 
 You play as JC Denton. That's not your real name, you set your real name at the start so you see 
 it mentioned occasionally. You've just started working for UNATCO, an organization set primairily 
 to combat terrorists. As you work with fellow agents though, you'll quickly discover things aren't 
 quite as simple as they seem... Maybe those terrorists are doing the right thing? Who's really 
 influencing UNATCO? While your choices through the game don't edit the storyline too much, its 
 still one of the most interesting stories your going to see in video games.
  
  Deus Ex's basic gameplay is a hybrid FPS along with some Stealth action. In most missions, you'll 
 have a few options as to how to complete your objectives, though it ultimately comes down to the 
 same options every time- will you be stealthy and non-lethal, or a bloody mess? The most interesting 
 thing about all this is that the way you take certain missions and choose certain options will 
 affect how other characters interact with you (More on character interaction later) . The ultimate 
 objectives for missions though tends to have little variety, as your always seeking out some button, 
 person, or object. The better you do in missions, you'll also get skill points which let you upgrade 
 your character in specific fields, such as specific weapon usage, swimming, hacking, etc.
  
  The way Deus Ex lets you implement these options is well done, but there are issues. For the 
 bloody messes, you'll have to endure some sluggish combat which rarely gets enjoyable, though it 
 is fun to kill enemies who are unaware of you. But with stealthy guys, you'll find that its impossible 
 to avoid the sluggish combat occasionally, which is dissapointing. The stealth itself is also rather 
 odd in that the guards sometimes won't notice you when you think they would, sometimes even when 
 your clearly within their line of sight. The guards are actually quite dumb in general with a very 
 weak AI that gives you easy kills. Fortunately, the guards are fairly acurate, so its not like 
 they fail to put up a fight at all.
  
  It unfortunately gets worse- Deus ex suffers from several serious design issues. For starters, 
 the game lacks a checkpoint system. While it is understandably tricky to include a checkpoint system 
 with so many paths to take, they could of at least tried to include one. A weak checkpoint system 
 is better than no checkpoint system, so you'll have to save very often. The level design tends 
 to be interesting as well, though it can be tough to keep track of where you are at times, especially 
 since the maps your given during the game are rather lackluster and don't show where your current 
 location is. ALL of these design issues could of been fixed quite easily!
  
  Graphically, Deus Ex makes effective use of the unreal engine for the most part. The character 
 models are all very well done, but the environments are extremely bland. Sound wise, Deus ex just 
 barely passes. The voice acting in the game is all over the map, with some great performances, 
 and some lousy performances. But the vast majority of the voice acting here is ultimately decent.
 
  
  Deus Ex has some good ideas, and implements several of them to good success. If your looking for 
 an interesting game with some good shooting and stealth mechanics, along with an interesting storyline, 
 Deus ex could be for you. But with all of the design issues, you should approach it with caution.
 
  
  Pros: A good mix of Combat and stealth along with a well implemented leveling up and upgrade system. 
 Interesting character interaction. Good character models.
  
  Cons: Combat is sluggish and not very enjoyable. Stealth is sometimes just plain odd thanks to 
 a lousy AI. No checkpoint system, among other design issues.
  
  Recommendable for: No real group for recommendation here, anyone who is interested in Deus Ex should 
 approach with caution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniacbob
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex sits on a throne as one of the greatest games of all time, beyond that one of the greatest 
 pieces of work ever. Warren Spector nails every aspect of this game, from story to gameplay. The 
 story is gripping and will have you playing right to the end to find out every secret and how JC 
 Denton will pull off his mission and then to play it again to find everything that you missed the 
 first time. The story brings in real world fringe elements and conspiracies such as the Illuminati 
 and the UN and puts them into real world locations such as New York and Hong Kong and brings them 
 all home in a scenario that is terrifyingly possible. The voice acting is excellent and the script 
 writing even better. The plot even allows for changes in the story which will cause different characters 
 to appear in different areas depending on the players choices giving even greater replayability. 
 The game offers three radically differing outcomes with which to achieve each of which will leave 
 the world in a new state of existence. Throughout the game the player will find newspaper articles 
 and emails giving information on the state of the world giving the illusion of a real coherent, 
 chaotic world and enriching the game experience. The levels are designed with a variety that will 
 satisfy any type of gamer, allowing the player to sneak around and quietly take down the enemy, 
 just sneak right by, or run in and blast anything that moves. However, your options don't end there 
 is a set of skills allowing you to specialize in Heavy Weaponry, Computer Hacking, Healing, and 
 more, then combine that with character, JC Denton's ability to augment his body with healing, flashlight, 
 armor, and more. There are multiple upgradeable weapons that allow for any style of gameplay and 
 two types of ammunition for most guns. The levels are reasonably expansive and many areas offer 
 sidequests, lootable rooms, and a colorful cast of characters to communicate with. On the visual 
 side of things the levels in New York have a dark, dirty, depressing feel to them while levels 
 like Hong Kong have are vibrant and full of people. Player models on the other hand have not aged 
 so well, and while not bad they wont be enticing anybody to play this game; however, they are still 
 decent enough to do the job well and are not off-puttingly bad. Players shouldn't have a problem 
 with them and if they are really a problem fan projects are being put together to update the look 
 of the game and bring up to current levels. The objects and weapons are creative looking and intriguing. 
 The AI while below current standards are pretty good fro the times, NPCs have set paths and will 
 talk to each other although these will be repetitive after a few journeys through an area which 
 may happen in some cases. In case of gunfire civilians will scurry in the direction of the nearest 
 exit and enemies will return fire, hunt the opponent down, and/or call for back up hitting a nearby 
 alarm. If an enemy hears you they will come running and search for you until they are satisfied 
 that they must be hearing things or they find you and open fire. Enemy design is varied and will 
 require various weapons and strategies to take them down.
  I truly wish I could find a game as magnificent as this, rich in storytelling, gameplay, and style. 
 It really is a one-of-a-kind game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 1:53 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  One unfortunate event that occurred in PC gaming is the decline of certain genres and franchises 
 which deserved to be recognized but somehow became underrated and made a quiet exit. When I think 
 of such franchises, Deus Ex comes to mind.
  
  Websites all over the internet have only great things to say about this game. And yet, it hasn't 
 become popular like other mainstream titles. This game has a target audience in mind, it's certainly 
 not for the casual weekend gamer, nor is it for someone who is enjoys run and gun sort of gameplay.
 
  
  With all this in mind, I set out to see what the game is all about.
  
  Never having played a RPG game before this, I didn't know what to expect. I didn't think much about 
 the game when I first started playing. I wasn't impressed with the visuals and I almost gave up 
 playing. However I got a little curious about the RPG elements, so I decided to play a little longer.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  When I started playing, the game was visually very unappealing. In this day and age when we have 
 played games like Doom 3, Half Life 2 and Crysis waiting to be released and DirectX 10 promising 
 to deliver visuals like never seen before; it's hard to ignore mediocre graphics. Graphics have 
 evolved so much that we are not impressed with anything less than spectacular.
  
  The graphics in the game are just that  nothing spectacular. They are not particularly ugly, but 
 they are not very pretty either. The entire game takes place in night time; the atmosphere for 
 most part is very gloomy. You either find yourself out in the open under street lights with plenty 
 of dark shadowy regions or you are inside buildings with florescent lights. The monotony is broken 
 a few times during the game when you enter inside some buildings which are truly breathtaking. 
 Character models are decent, but nothing like they are now.
  
  Having said that, the game isn't meant to be played for its graphics anyway, they serve the purpose, 
 but nothing more. This is one of those games where the gameplay is so good that you will soon forget 
 about the visuals. As I played the game, I got used to the dull settings, I found myself caught 
 in the riveting gameplay.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is typical RPG fare. You play as JC Denton, a human cyborg working for the UNACTO 
 in the counter terrorism unit. The game is set in the future where the world is in turmoil. There 
 is a deadly plague epidemic and the only cure for this disease is Ambrosia  a concoction synthesized 
 from rare chemicals.
  
  It does appear like a routine story where the world is chaos and in need of a savior but all is 
 not as it seems; there are plenty of surprises in store. You will soon realize that the conspiracy 
 runs a lot deeper and very soon you become the center of plot and the fate of the world actually 
 rests on your actions. I cannot give away too much, but rest assured that the game has one of the 
 best storylines ever. I especially like the way the story unfolded. I am quite sure you will enjoy 
 it as well.
  
  One of the interesting aspects of this game (like most RPG games) is that impact that your actions 
 have on the way the game is played. In most FPS games, you play along a predetermined path and 
 perform actions exactly the way they were meant to be performed in order to make progress. The 
 path is very linear and there is hardly any room for freedom. In Deus Ex, there are a number of 
 ways a certain task or level can be completed. Your earlier actions determine the way the game 
 is played. Almost everything that you do will make a difference.
  
  As you keep playing, you will accumulate skill points, which can be used to increase skill levels 
 in a lot of areas, such as Pistols, Rifles, Melee attack, Medicine etc. You will play the game 
 differently based on different upgrades. If you upgrade your Rifle skill, you can afford to attack 
 more, if you increase your Melee skill level, then you will be able to use stealth to your advantage 
 and be very quiet and deadly. Most of the times, you will need a combination of your skills to 
 get through the game.
  
  The game has to be played to grasp the significance of this concept. Having certain skills will 
 make certain tasks easier but there will always be a compromise. So you are never a master at all 
 the skills. There is always a balance and this determines how the game is the played.
  
  However, you don't get skill points for using a certain skill; rather you accumulate skill points 
 for discovering hidden areas, accomplishing goals etc, which can be used to upgrade skill to different 
 levels. But that makes sense; the protagonist in the game isn't completely human, so skill aren't 
 developed the traditional way. There are also several augmentations available throughout the game 
 which will give you special abilities, like speed, vision etc. These can be upgraded throughout 
 the game.
  
  As a player, you have a greater role in the game than to just kill enemies and complete levels. 
 You get to decide your own path in solving the tasks at hand. The skills that you have upgraded 
 as well as the augmentations play a vital role in how the game progresses. Since a grouping of 
 these factors is responsible for the gameplay, it's possible to play the game in very different 
 ways using different styles.
  
  NPCs play a very vital role throughout the game. Interaction with them is important and you get 
 access codes, secondary quests, items and useful snippets of information. Although sometimes it's 
 not mandatory, it usually helps in either understanding the game better or gathering some information 
 that makes solving tasks a whole lot easier.
  
  Sound
  
  A lot fo work has benn put into the sound. Every location has distinct sounds, like techno music 
 in a nightclub, eerie music when going through cemetery etc. The soundtrack is excellent and I 
 enjoyed listening to it. Over all, it's very solid and adds to the atmosphere a great deal.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Playing Deus Ex is by far one of the most satisfying experiences in gaming. 
 The game builds up gradually to a superb conclusion. It's a real pity that we don't get to play 
 games like these anymore. After having playing countless FPS games over the years, sometimes I 
 long for a game that is very profound and thought provoking.
  
  Once finished, you will carry along that feeling of having been on a remarkable journey and wonder 
 why Deus Ex did not do well in spite of being so ground-breaking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unstoppable_1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  The year was 2001. I was a junior in high school. My fresh copy of Game of Year from PC gamer had 
 arrived in the mail. Hmm I thought. What game could be game of the year. Quickly I flipped towards 
 the middle. Deus Ex game of the year it said.
  
  Deus Ex? What the heck is that. The screenshots showed some guy with a white coat and some sword 
 looking thing. Anyway then I was able to acquire the game. The intro sequence was stellar. Wow 
 the statue of liberty has been hit by a terrorist attack. What the heck is going on, why are people 
 dieng I thought to myself.
  
  Deus Ex is a game you simply must play. Sure I can go on about how great this or that is but why 
 should I? Take my word for it. Get it from steampowered. com. I believe it's only 9.95. What are 
 you waiting for. Go play now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauriseth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Until the date, Deus-Ex is one of the best games to me because of its unique plot and perfect gaming. 
 when i plyaed this game by the first time, I was 10 years old, I didn't understanded english well 
 and i depended on cheats. then, i started playing again, 6 years later, and now i can trully appreciate 
 the game's essence. the story is incredibly good, combining a near future in which the development 
 of the human's mind and the de-evolution if the human's nature with real organizations and true 
 stories of conspiracy, the story is one between a million. Then, you have the gaming, and the way 
 you pass the game is up to you, whether is like a futuristic Rambo, a non-charming 007 or a ciber-investigator, 
 is up to you, but i can assure you, that you will be entertained with his gaming style. The scenarios 
 are great, revelaing cities like Ne York, Paris and Hong Kong, you see an almost apocalyptic future 
 in the mayor cities of the World. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanatose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex took the world by storm when it was released. It added both RPG and stealth aspects to 
 the FPS genre that helped to revolutionize the way we look at games today. This game came out hot 
 on the heels of such revolutionary titles as Half-Life and System Shock 2 yet it still managed 
 to shine. The story takes place in a dark cyberpunk like world where cyborgs and nano augmented 
 humans walk the earth. You play as J. C. Denton, a nano augmented human with extraordinary abilities 
 and training. The game starts off with you hunting down terrorists who have taken over the Statue 
 of Liberty. As the game progresses the lines between good and evil tend to blur and you find yourself 
 working for the other side. The game has three different endings and it's up to you to decide how 
 it all plays out. Deus Ex give you a lot of character customization options to work with. The weapons 
 in the game can be customized using various modifications that can be found or purchased throughout 
 the game. You can choose which skills to improved, you can even choose which augmentations to install 
 and upgrade. With a limited number of inventory spaces you have to pick and choose which weapons 
 and equipment you want to carry with you also. The world is large and gives you plenty of options 
 on how to approach each mission. You can either go in guns blazing or you can play the stealthy 
 fellow who doesn't kill unless he has to. No matter how many times you replay the game you will 
 never have the same experience. Overall this game is a must play title and well worth your time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malavos
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Ion storm. This is one of the HEAVY gaming factorys. Old, nice, and rocks a lot. This is one of 
 the old school rocks pwnsome games from the past. Well, it&acute; s so nice to play DEUS EX! XD 
 The story is like a little from matrix. Well - let&acute; s go to the grades boys!
  
  Story = 10 - well. a Ten. I never seen these types of stories. Ion storm is crazy O_o
  
  Graphics 
 = 8,7 - Well, they got 3d heavy firepower.
  
  Sounds = 7 - well, they're not so much realistic.
  
  Music = 5. It gets boring.
  
  Style 
 = 10. Well, quite amazing. It mix rpg with action =D
  
  Overrall = 9,2
  
  PLAY DEUS EX GUYS! *-*
  
  Hiei-kun on azeroth
  
  Blizzard owns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuckboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex is a game where everything you do has consequences. On the outside it looks like a shoot 
 em up, set on a futuristic planet earth, but if you decide to unquestioningly slaughter everyone 
 opposed to you then you will quickly fall out of favour with some people, whilst gaining the friendship 
 mindless thugs like yourself. The objective of this game is to save the world, but you cannot discover 
 exactly who or what is threatening the world by shooting everyone.
  
  If a friendly character is killed in Deus Ex, it isn't game over. Life goes on, and the death of 
 characters will affect some elements of how the plot plays out later on. And when a friendly character 
 dies that you knew you could have saved it actually makes you feel guilty about letting them die.
 
  
  In Deus Ex it is actually possible to run through the entire game without killing anyone! You can 
 use tazers, asp batons and tranquiliser crossbow darts to knock enemies unconcious. Some people 
 seem to get obsessed with not killing anyone, but I think it's best to strike a balance, as character 
 Sam Carter will advise you.
  
  If you know you can feasibly knock out an enemy without killing him, you should, because not only 
 will you spare the poor guy's life, you will also incapacitate him without his letting out a blood 
 curdling death-scream, alerting all around him to your act of homicide. However, if you intend 
 to go through the entire game without killing a single person, it will get very monotonous and 
 you will have to quick load often. Aside from that, some of the characters of Deus Ex are truly 
 vile people and deserve to die. When you come up against the black uniform agents it is almost 
 irresistable to kill them, since when they die their body self destructs in a satisfying shower 
 of meat. Whether you play the pacifist or not becomes largely irrelivant later in the game anyway; 
 there are no special awards for not killing anyone.
  
  The plot of Deus Ex opens with a struggle between the anti terrorist force UNATCO and the terrorist 
 group NSF as NSF have stolen several crates of the cure to a plague called the gray death. On one 
 hand if they steal the cure it could wreak havok if the government in power dies of the disease, 
 but is it right to withold the cure from all the ordinary people who are dying every day? You'll 
 want to approach situations with an open mind. I won't give away any more of the plot since there 
 is significant appeal in uncovering the story.
  
  The AI of Deus Ex aren't extraordinarily combat apt as they will tend to run at you shooting most 
 of the time, but they are devious in other ways. Enemies will often run to hit an alarm switch 
 before engaging you directly, and if an enemy is badly wounded they will run away, bleeding all 
 over the place! Sounds hilarious, but the poor fella usually isn't just running around like a headless 
 chicken, no, he's run off to tell mummy. If you don't put him down one way or another you can usually 
 be sure that a bunch of his mates will be come sprinting around the corner seconds later with your 
 head in their sights. Even civilians aren't just cardboard cut outs. You can talk to them, and 
 if they witness you attacking someone they will run and get the police.
  
  All in all Deus Ex is a fantastic and unique game with a deep and interesting plot. Developers 
 these days could really take a leaf out of Warren Spector's book; it is a shame that most devs 
 just want to play it safe and not be too ambitious with their game concepts. The graphics are really 
 of no concern. They serve their purpose, and I can honestly say that Deus Ex was much a more intriguing 
 and fascinating game than most of the recent games I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deus_Ex_Fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  There are few video games that hit almost every point right. Deus Ex is one of these games. Despite 
 it's release 7 years ago, gamers still love this game, outdated graphics and modplug music and 
 all.
  
  Why?
  
  Deus Ex is one of the rare hybrid FPS games that mixes the action of FPS games, with the aspects 
 of a RPG. With truly open-ended game play, a gamer can explore the levels to his/her fullest, without 
 the push/pull of feeling steered into one direction. Your inventory encompasses many weapons, from 
 a sniper rfile, to even a crossbow and stun baton. Unlike other games, you also have a choice to 
 kill or not to kill. Yes, this is a FPS/RPG that you don't have to be a blood soaked beast to enjoy 
 -- and still have the best of both worlds. How is that possible? Stealth. If you're careful (see 
 the beads of sweat on your head?) you can bypass the guards, security cameras and drones. Stealth 
 play -- to kill but 1 in this game and avoiding being seen - is the hardest to accomplished, beating 
 even a fast and intense firefight (do you have the ability to test yourself to do so?) . In all 
 of this, you can actually *feel* empathy for your enemy and his political philosophy, making you 
 *think* if killing him or even if your position is right or wrong.
  
  Deus Ex isn't creepy like some horror games, but there are parts that are unsettling, and make 
 you wonder if can be true (a lot of RL research went into the game about all the conspiracy theories 
 -- which some even came true -- you'll notice no Twin Towers in NYC skyline as the devs claimed 
 it would've been destroyed by terrorists [before 9/11] ; and FEMA is the bad guys [Katrina anyone?] ) . 
 It's that uncanny foresight that's filled throughout the game in a very tight storyline that's 
 probably one of the most comprehensive for any FPS hybrid (not as sidewinding as RPGs, but much 
 more than a FPS) . To add to the ingame storyline you'll find datacubes with chapters from puzzling 
 books to read, each making you wonder... hmmm. The game also has deep socio-political themes that 
 makes you wonder why you didn't take up political science in college, too.
  
  The conspiracy talk in the game isn't a tin-foil looney presentation, but one that will make you 
 think. Not to believe if it's true, but to think what if it could be true, and the consequences 
 (there's ethnical decisions throughout the game that tests your own moral compass ) .
  
  -----------------
  INTERFACE
  -----------------
  
  Menu colors can be changed (many colors) ; 
 keys remapped; graphic and sound settings changed in the main menu.
  
  Typical of it's generation with an power bar of items in your inventory on the bottom of the screen. 
 Your health/energy levels are iconic. And there's a working compass to help you not get lost in 
 a multitude of tunnels.
  
  Saved games are limited to 999 games, so plenty slots available for each scene. The ending save 
 will automatically be set at 999. Each with a small picture and gametime stamp (how Deus Ex gamers 
 know exactly how long they played down to the second) . Saved games for all 999 will take about 
 5GB of disk space.
  
  ----------------
  GAMEPLAY
  ----------------
  
  Weapons will sway due to breathing, so snipering will factor that in with the scope. You have no 
 limit on snipering/firing distances, but accuracy is affected by range.
  
  Since Deus Ex has a RPG side, you have skills from weapons; hacking; lockpicking; medicine; environment; 
 explosives; swimming and more to chose from. You're rewarded ingame money for certain feats, which 
 you can use to buy from NPCs, upgrades for your weapons, etc.. Experience points are used to level 
 your skills.
  
  Levels consists of cities. Bars. Church. Catacomb. Subway. Mansion. Lab. Prison cell, and wonderful 
 underwater levels (which you can even explore -- do so there's some rewards) .
  
  Cutscreens are used for dialogue. Your radio is a little different than in other games (you'll 
 learn why) .
  
  Augmentations is the key feature in this game. Canisters and upgrade canisters will be found throughout 
 the game giving you bionic/genetic super abilities. Choose carefully, as they can't be undone, 
 so think your character out -- want to be a fighter or playing stealth, for example.
  
  Your character can also move crates and use them as ladders in this game, as well as break them 
 open for goods inside. There's poison and explosives crates and barrels (TNT and flammable) to 
 be careful around, as well as many defense devices requiring careful movement.
  
  Hacking computers and unlocking things is throughout the game.
  
  Hand explosives are both 
 offensive and defensive (non-lethal play) ... put them to use, to climb even. ;)
  
  ----------------
  GRAPHICS
  ----------------
  
  Graphics and 3D models in this game at 
 the time was top-notched, but today do look outdated. There's mods being built even today, and 
 the HDTP project aims to revamp the textures for better resolution and more life like 3D models 
 (using a more updated UT4 engine) .
  
  The game has issues with OpenGL (experimental at the time) , so you will have to tweak it to get 
 to work right, but it's not a major issue, just adjusting some settings.
  
  ----------
  MUSIC
  ----------
  
  Due to space issues music in this game is a combination of wav samples 
 and MIDI, arranged in a modplug (with appropriate composer software, you can even see how the game 
 musicians composed it all -- wonderful for computer music students trying to understand how it's 
 done) .
  
  But what made Deus Ex, Deus Ex, apart from it's storyline, is it's soundtrack. Fans of this game 
 will play their favorite songs outside the game with a modplug extension, even. They are moody, 
 action packed, and even ethnic themed. The main theme is carried over throughout the game in variations 
 of other songs, and catchy, that you may wind up humming some bars. Action scenes will have faster 
 paced versions of a song; explore scenes will have moody music (the underwater music is fantastic) ; 
 chase scene music to get your adrenaline pumping.
  
  -----------
  ISSUES
  -----------
  
  Deus Ex did hit all the right points in game development, but like all games 
 it does have bug issues. There's two unclosed loops in the game, that can allow a player to run 
 up their experience scores (cheat) ; faster game systems now can speed up the game too fast; saved 
 games can get corrupted; and sound can be annoying if newer or custom MIDI fonts are used.
  
  --
  
  Overall, this video game is the best game that this critical critic of games have 
 ever played. Newer games have the graphics, cinematics and sound, but no game to date, has the 
 storyline, game elements, gameplay and thinking aspects as good as Deus Ex.
  
  So if you never played Deus Ex, give it a try and see how and why this game is regarded as one 
 of the best video games in history, by the pickiest critics and fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrus1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex is one of those rare pieces of arts that are just so invigorating and wonderful that you 
 cant help but fall in love with it. For me it was the first game with a story that actually made 
 care about the characters. The story was immersing. Game play was fun I have yet to see a game 
 blend a FPS and RPG together so well. Why visually and sound wise it is dated and a few odd bugs 
 still exist you cant help and dismiss these as minor imperfection on the level of uneven brush 
 strokes on the Mona Lisa. Seven years later this is still the game I judge all others against. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stormguarde
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10 / 10
  
  With its gameplay, I believe Deus Ex really shines. The scope of the game is massive. With many 
 hours of gameplay, and much capacity for replayability, Deus Ex is a game that will entertain you 
 for a long time as you first seek to unravel its excellent and compelling story and then seek to 
 unlock its myriad secrets and other content.
  
  The game plays as a hybrid of the first person shooter and role playing game genres, though it 
 is principally a first person shooter with several important exceptions. There is a lot of dialogue, 
 and you may in some instances choose what you wish the player character to say. In those instances 
 where you cannot choose what you wish to say, the player character often talks in a manner very 
 fitting of your actions. It is also very open ended, with multiple endings and many story lines 
 that may never be seen in a single run through of the game. Each and every action of the player 
 character influences the world around him, and the reactions of other characters change depending 
 upon how you approach the game and what choices you make. The game also implements a skill system, 
 which allows the player to improve specific talents as he progresses through the game.
  
  The game crafts a somber and dark atmosphere, and proves very immersing. Its environments are expansive 
 and interesting, and the setting changes periodically, though the dark industrial theme common 
 to most of the environments may prove repetitive for some. While entirely optional, there are an 
 abundance of small details, such as newspapers, emails, and lines of dialogue, that help to flesh 
 out the world and add depth.
  
  There is a multitude of ways to overcome the problems faced by the player character. If faced with 
 a locked door, the player character can either, depending upon the security system in place, hack 
 the security system, bypass the security system with a multitool, unlock the door with a found 
 key code, unlock the door with a found nanokey, pick the lock with a set of lock picks, or even 
 simply blown it down. If faced with combat, the player character can adopt a stealthy approach 
 and entirely avoid the encounter, incapacitate his opponents with smoke grenades and tranquilizer 
 darts launched from a hand crossbow, hack the security system to use against his opponents, attack 
 his opponents head-on with assault shotgun and ballistic armor, or any of the above in combination. 
 The myriad possibilities for overcoming challenges allow for much replayability.
  
  There is vast potential for customization. The player has the option of installing nanotechnological 
 augmentations to his body that give him superhuman abilities, such as surviving great falls or 
 lifting immense objects. These augmentations, in addition to the skill system, give players the 
 tools to create a different character with different specialties in each game. With augmentations 
 allowing the player character to run silently, cloak, and pass undetected by surveillance, and 
 skills making the player character proficient with thermoptic camouflage, computer terminal hacking, 
 and lock picking, a perfect espionage agent is created. With augmentations for ballistic protection, 
 an aggressive defense system, and an energy shield, and skills making the player character an expert 
 with rifles and heavy weaponry, a perfect combatant is created.
  
  The above gameplay elements combine to form a rewarding gameplay experience that is enjoyable and 
 immersing.
  
  Graphics: 7 / 10
  
  The graphics are, unfortunately, not exceptional, but are of an acceptable level and should not 
 deter anyone from playing.
  
  Sound: 7 / 10
  
  The soundtrack to Deus Ex is also on the whole not exceptional, but it is eminently suitable for 
 the game. Some tracks are excellent, such as the introduction and the menu music, but on the whole 
 it is the kind of soundtrack that does not overtly draw your attention while playing the game but 
 is missed if not present.
  
  The voice acting in Deus Ex varies in quality. Some of the voice acting, such as that of the character 
 Bob Page, is brilliant, whereas other examples of the voice acting, such as that of two Australians 
 found in Lucky Money Club in Hong Kong, leaves something to be desired.
  
  Value: 10 / 10
  
  Deus Ex is excellent value. For just short of seven dollars, one may purchase 
 the Game of the Year Edition of Deus Ex from Amazon. com, which includes the game itself, compatible 
 with most recent operating systems, a Software Development Kit, and a soundtrack.
  
  Tilt: 10 / 10
  
  Deus Ex is, in my opinion, one of the finest games ever made. Most significantly, 
 and above all else, it is fun. I would without reserve recommend it to not only all fans of the 
 first person shooter genre, but also to those who are new to the genre or those who typically would 
 not play a game of the genre.
  
  Overall: 9.3 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidl3631
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is great with the story being fantasic with 3 multiple endings although the ending isnt 
 get in either three the story all though the game is great with you never knowing who to trust 
 and who to turn to for help,
  
  You are a robot who is thinks like a human and with his body you can upgrade yourself using augmentations 
 to increase certain things to make you better in the game, but you must chose wisely to make sure 
 you can stand against the people you have to fight, The game takes you all over the world with 
 you having to go to new york, paris, hong kong and secret bases, the levels are all massive and 
 reward you for expolring the areas, Although the graphics are dated by todays standard i feel this 
 doesnt dampen the gaming experance at all.
  
  Overall i strong recommend this game and think everyone should play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Leave it up to Warren Spector and his team to pull it off... yet again. Warren has had his fingers 
 in such great first-person classics as Ultima Underworld, Thief, and System Shock, so you can bet 
 your bosom that we were looking for great things out of Deus Ex... and Ion Storm didn't disappoint.
 
  
  I don't want to give away too much of the story, but the plot of Deus Ex is one of the finest crafted 
 in any game. If you like multi-layered conspiracy, you're going to love Deus Ex. There are so many 
 side plots, twists, and branching narratives going on in the game that it's easy to get sucked 
 in to one plot and then do a complete one-eighty not five minutes later in the game when you uncover 
 another buried facet of the story. In case you haven't read our extensive preview coverage of Deus 
 Ex (and why not may I ask?) , you step into the stylish leather boots of a nano-augmented agent 
 for UNATCO, a United Nations-sponsored anti-terrorist organization. You begin the game looking 
 for a highjacked shipment of Ambrosia, the only known substance that can stabilize sufferers of 
 the Grey Death. Now that's just one ripple in the ocean that is Deus Ex. Like I said, I don't want 
 to give anyway anything further about the story since it's so fundamental to the experience, but 
 let me just say it's like an entire season of The X-Files wrapped into one game (the old X-Files, 
 not that tripe they've been feeding us recently) .
  
  I know what you're saying: Sure, the story might be the best thing since those flying cars we all 
 got earlier this year, but I can go buy a good book for ten bucks. How does the game play, jerk 
 face? Well, you won't be disappointed here, either. And you don't have to call me names. I have 
 feelings too, you know. Think of Deus Ex as a mix between Rainbow Six, Thief, and System Shock. 
 It's set slightly in the future, projectiles are more deadly than in Quake, and a solid stealthy 
 approach can be much more useful than a full frontal assault. The really great thing about Deus 
 Ex is that you can play it how you want to play it, and you can develop your character to fit your 
 playing style. You gain skill points through completing primary and secondary goals, which can 
 then be allocated to increase a number of different skills including computers, electronics, environmental 
 training, lockpicking, medicine, swimming, and various weapons skills. You can become an expert 
 in perhaps one or two skills, but you can't master all, so you have to be careful about what you 
 pick because it will affect how you progress through the game. And while it may seem obvious that 
 abilities like lockpicking and computers might come in more handy than swimming or environmental 
 training, don't discount any of the proficiencies. My main character was a sniper/hacker type with 
 a bit of lockpicking prowess and medical knowledge, therefore I favored strategies like staying 
 far away from my targets and hacking into security systems. But I went back and played the game 
 to test some of the skills that I hadn't specialized in, and I found that in most cases (why anyone 
 would want to be an expert in environmental training still eludes me... but to each his/her own) 
 there were just as many ways to utilize them as there were any other skill in the game. Becoming 
 an expert doctor kept me in tip-top shape every time I used a single medkit, and the swimming skill 
 afforded me easy clearance through several underwater routes that I had never explored as a sniper/hacker.
 
  
  In addition to the customizable skills, your nano-augmentations play a big part in the game. You'll 
 find augmentation canisters throughout the game that can give you one of two enhancements, which 
 also forces you to make choices that affect the game. For example, you may have to decide whether 
 you want the ability to run fast or walk silently, lift heavy objects or cause greater damage in 
 melee combat. All of these choices make for greater variety in gameplay, and ultimately makes for 
 an almost endless play experience as you have multiple routes to explore each time you play the 
 game.
  
  Level design is another area where Deus Ex really shines. After games like Thief and System Shock 
 2, it's almost a given that sneaker-shooter is going to have some creative levels, but the folks 
 at Ion Storm have gone above and beyond the call of duty. Like I mentioned before, there's usually 
 something in every level that caters to the various skills, even swimming. From air ducts to underground 
 pipes to super-secure secret entrances, the designers really thought of a number of ways to traverse 
 and interact with each environment so you never feel like you're locked into one route. And the 
 great thing is that no specific way is necessarily the best way to go. While a Mech-swarming front 
 entrance may seem like a deathtrap to some, the character loaded down with EMP grenades may find 
 it an easier route than bypassing security and going through the backdoor. It's all about character 
 choice, and that's a great thing to see in a game, especially in a first-person perspective game.
 
  
  With all of this depth, you might imagine that Deus Ex would be a real **** to get into. Well, 
 that's not the case at all. One of the first things that really impressed me was how easy Deus 
 Ex was to get up and running. While this could have been an overly difficult game to get in to, 
 it's obvious that the team spent a good bit of time designing the interface, because it's one of 
 the best I've used. For starters, absolutely everything is described in detail with a click of 
 the mouse. This keeps your hands on the game and off of the manual, which is purposely thin for 
 that very reason. The game will also keep running track of all of your logs, clues, codes, and 
 conversations. You'll pay for it in save game space (individual saves can run upwards of 20MB a 
 piece depending on the size of the level) , but it's worth it in the end. I'd rather stay in the 
 game than have to go searching through page after page of notes, and if you had to keep track of 
 all of the notes in Deus Ex, you'd fill a composition book in short order.
  
  As good as the gameplay is, visuals aren't one of Deus Ex's stronger points. Since it's built on 
 the Unreal engine, Deus Ex isn't as pretty as other first-person games like Quake III or Soldier 
 of Fortune. The graphics are blocky, the animation is stiff, and the dithering is just plain awful 
 in some spots, but overall Deus Ex certainly looks better than your average game, and I'm certainly 
 willing to sacrifice graphics in favor of solid gameplay, which this game is overflowing with. 
 While the graphics engine isn't the best out there, Deus Ex does excel in creating atmosphere. 
 The entire game takes place at night, which is the perfect setting for an eerie, conspiracy-laden 
 adventure. As you can see from the screenshots, the game is dark, but that's part of what makes 
 it so mysterious. Plus, with your eye-mounted flashlight, you're never completely in the dark as 
 long as you have a bioelectric cell or two in your inventory.
  
  One of the worst problems I ran into with Deus Ex was the high system requirements. Deus Ex ran 
 choppy even on some of the higher end computers we played it on. I had to turn the detail down 
 on my PII450MHz with a Voodoo3 to get a fluid framerate, but after I installed one of the new Voodoo5s, 
 it was smooth sailing with full detail. Of course, I hope we're not getting to the point where 
 you have to own a PIII600 with a $300 video card to play a good PC game quite yet.
  
  Other than the hefty system requirements, there wasn't a whole lot not to like about Deus Ex. One 
 caveat goes back to the choppy animation system. While the team promised real-time lip synchronizing, 
 the final product doesn't live up to what we were expecting. More often than not, the character's 
 teeth moved up and down instead of their lips, so you're left looking at a very Cenobite-ish looking 
 creature who you just want to run from before fishing hooks shoot out of his back and grab you. 
 I also ran into a couple of occasions where my allies blocked my path, preventing my escape from 
 a room. Thank goodness I'm the type who saves often (and I suggest you do if you pick up Deus Ex) 
 or I might have to replay a good bit of the game. There's also no multiplay option, but the single-player 
 experience is so great you won't miss not playing against others. Overall, these are just minor 
 quips, and there's certainly much more to praise in Deus Ex than there is to whine about.
  
  To its credit, its brilliant design and elegant follow through make Deus Ex the best game I've 
 played this year, and I think it's safe to say it's one of the most versatile first-person games 
 ever. Those of you looking for a complex, unique experience will find it in Deus Ex. While I had 
 a good idea that Deus Ex was going to be a winner way before I played it, the team at Ion Storm 
 has gone above and beyond all the expectations I had for this game, and has made one of the most 
 fulfilling single-player games I've played in years. I only hope we see this attention to detail 
 and design in future games from Ion Storm as well as other developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Seven years after its release, Deus Ex is still a terribly exciting mix of action, RPG, science 
 fiction and suspense. The story in which you are deeply involved is compelling. The gameplay is 
 a perfect blend of action and RPG, which is a formula often tried but rarely successful in the 
 realm of virtual gaming.
  I personally don't care very much for shooters. And though I enjoy science fiction, I prefer to 
 wield swords and master sorcery when I play RPGs. But those preferences doen't count for Deus Ex, 
 which stands in the top five of my favourite games. I will wait three years to give it another 
 try and, possibly, enjoy it as much as I did this year, like I did three years ago, and also seven 
 years back. Too bad there is only three types of ending for this extraordinary story...
  
  The only negative point that come to mind about Deus Ex is the lack of marker on the maps, to show 
 where you stand. But this is just a small drop of frustration in an ocean of pure fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NotDrLight
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  A classic game. The combination of FPS and RPG really works well. The only problem is the very 
 low starting skill levels. However, it remains one of my favorite games, and one of the few I will 
 reload every year to replay.
  I've never really found a game with the same quality of script - the way that some of the NPCs 
 talk to you is great - although it can be annoying in a distracting way - when you're trying to 
 sneak through a graveyard being hunted by MJ12 commandos, the last thing you need to hear is Tracer 
 Tong (IIRC) babbling on about Adam Weishaupt and the Illuminati - although it just makes the game 
 more fun.
  There is enough shoot-em-up action to keep FPS fans happy, and with the ability to sneak and hack 
 security systems and turrets there is almost always a way around the stand up fight option.
  The graphics may appear clunky nowadays, but the gameplay is solid as every. The themes of Black 
 Helicopters, huge government conspiracies, multi-national companies secretly running the world 
 are as fresh as ever, and the hidden jokes and homages to science-fiction authors abound. Well 
 worth the time and money spent on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  I was full of curiosity and awe when I first started to play, it was like playing Might and Magic 
 the Half-life style, or the other way round. Your character levels up in terms of bio-transplants 
 the way a paladin levels up in fantasy role-playing games, with a rifle instead of a sword. Wow, 
 that's an innovation! Stealth factor is also brought in to complete the hybrid, and spices up the 
 gameplay in overall.
  
  The early years of pc gaming are always full of revolutionary classics and Deus Ex would be one 
 of them. FPS gamers may be accustomed to it more than RPG fans due to the general setting of the 
 game, that is, in a sci-fi gun-toting world, something like Blade Runner. However, navigation through 
 the story requires a role-playing mindset that a Dungeons &amp; Dragons fan might appreciate better. 
 In other words, Deus Ex combines the best of both genres and brings us a generally solid game that 
 is an experience you won't forget.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tropper17982
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Dues Ex is an awesome game sort of its a sad story because your brother dies and your with the 
 terrorists and u have to kill a bunch of people who where your Allies like Scott or Private Lloyd 
 or other guys : ( ( the Hong Kong level on 1st one is a little hard because... I don't know where 
 to go! Still its awesome! My favorite gun is the anti aircraft gun, the sniper rifle, and the Assault 
 Shotgun and maybe the Assault Rifle. My favorite character is.. of course JCDenton, the UNATCOTroops, 
 and Alex Jacobson. I hate Bob Page and Simon. My Favorite Robots are the big, assault, bot, rocket 
 launcher, thingy, and the uhhhh..... the Military Robot, Terrorist, thingy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encell
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  The combined playing style and story of Deus Ex are its highlights and strength; the journey is 
 epic at the very least- you travel the world, fight tyranny and unravel the truth of the corrupt 
 world you taught to serve. Topics within the game address morality, government, politics and conspiracy. 
 It reveals action packed shooters as the brainless creations they really are. Deus Ex is literally 
 a God among games.
  
  Pros: Engaging story, strong characters, involving gameplay, FPS and RPG rolled into one, stealth/ 
 action styles of play, non-linear, you can use your brain if you like.
  
  Cons: By todays standards, the graphics are crap and some of the weapons seem to lack punch , like 
 the shotgun. Some dumb AI.
  
  Why oh why haven't modern game learnt to be just as inventive and interesting as this? Deus Ex 
 Machina: God from the Machine . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riddell-daniel
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  Its been a very long time since I first played this game and man the hours I have wasted away on 
 it since then. I must have played it through eight or more times and I have never got tired of 
 it. Set in the future (around the 2050's) you play JC Denton. An agent who has just started work 
 for UNATCO (united nations anti terrorist coalition) . You are however, an agent with a twist. You 
 have been upgraded with some of the latest and most advanced nano-augmentations ever made. This 
 gives you somewhat of an edge and some cool glowing eyes to match! The story continues as you would 
 expect in any other high end rpg until it all goes wrong for your character! A series of events 
 occur and all of a sudden you are caught in the middle of a gigantic conspiracy which could have 
 global consequences. As you travel from continent to continent hunting for the truth you gain more 
 powerful weapons, better nano upgrades and a group of friends who will help you on your quest to 
 get to the bottom of this international incident which traces its roots back hundreds of years.
 
  
  Although now the graphics seem dated it does not taint the game at all. The sound is still pretty 
 good, with the Deus Ex score being one of the most memorable in modern gaming. If you are one of 
 the people who has not played this game I strongly urge you to do so. It is years ahead of its 
 sorry sequel and it will set you up for the hopeful release of Deus Ex 3 in a year or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: it009x9281
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game must be one of my favs that i still play time and time again and i never seem to get 
 bored with it.
  The graphics are very outa date but thats no problem cos its the story woven into the gameplay 
 that makes it such a good game. It allows you to choose your own style of play for the missions 
 and u can mix the style of play where needed if you like. Such as stealth, diplomacy and just kill 
 everyone.
  The great thing it allows you to do it but you may miss out on vital info on a target mission or 
 the chance to trade somr grenades or something.
  But all in i can never find any flaws in this game and its still number 1 on my top 20 games Pc 
 games ever!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex has to be my number one favourite game of all time, maybe even more than Metal Gear Solid 
 2. Nothing can match DX in terms of totally open ended gameplay and excellent plot as well.
  
  In DX you play as JC Denton, a Member of UNATCO, secret Police force operating in New York. 
 Now this is JC's first day so he's still a rookie cop, so make sure you guide him carefully through 
 this dangerous and seedy world where nothing is absolutely certain, or safe for that matter.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is no doubt the very best part of DX. There is never just one way to 
 complete a certain goal, usually there is about five or six to be honest. Do you want do run and 
 gun your way through a mission blasting bad dudes left and right? Or do you wish to be surgical 
 and sneaky whle carefully hacking computer systems as you go? The choice is all yours my friends, 
 just don't ruin it with a walkthrough. The combat is your standard FPS fare with a good amount 
 of guns and hand to hand weapons to murder your various victims with. But since your a Police officer, 
 you've got some handy non-lethal weapons too like a stun prod and mace.
  
  Graphics: For 200, the graphics hold up quite well and do a very good job distinguishing what kind 
 of environment you are in. If your prowling the streets of Hells Kitchen, you'll see plenty of 
 Bums, Pimps, Beer cans, and many other ghetto things. The character models are fairly good though 
 a lack of ragdoll physics makes death animations look pretty bad.
  
  Sound: I always remember the awsome openeing theme song to DX. That cool techno vibe that plays 
 at the menu screen. Not only do you get to hear that, but the rest of the soundtrack is just as 
 good. Many of the voices are of good quality as well and all the guns sound quite good as well.
 
  
  I can't stress enough how much I simply love this game. DX is just a friggin masterpiece that should 
 be missed by absolutely no one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foofighter622
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is nothing short of amazing. Great; story line gameplay graphics replay value and just 
 over all fun. At the time I found most of my games to be lacking in content and usually sold back 
 to used game stores. Deus Ex chnaged this for me, with it's multiple scenarios based on your actions 
 and freedom to explore well designed locations, this game blew me away. At the time I bought this 
 game, I simply bought it because the box looked cool (advertising sells!) Upon playing it I found 
 myself addicted, I went through the game doing every conceivable option there was. After beating 
 it.......... playing it all over again. Here it is seven years later I still find myself playing 
 this game. A classic nostalgic game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hama666
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  It has been now seven staggering years since the instant classic of Deus Ex blessed gamers worldwide. 
 Many players who have only just accustomed themselves to gaming are curious to see the so called 
 'revolutionary' aspect of the game that is now almost a decade old. However one must consider the 
 time-frame in which it was released.
  
  Deus Ex is a cyberpunk Rpg-FPS hybrid that was released in the early summer of 2000. The game prior 
 to it's release was hyped up as the millennium advancement in gaming with promises of a new stance 
 to gaming as well as non-linear gameplay. Back then all gaming enthusiasts such as myself craved 
 this concept and eagerly and rather impatiently awaited it's release. That being said the game 
 didn't disappoint on any front.
  
  The game is set in a Dystopian world during the 2050s where the player takes the role of JC Denton; 
 a UNATCO (United Nations' Anti-Terrorist Coalition) agent burdened with the tasks of eradicating 
 terrorism in all its forms in a world doomed to total Chaos. The game is played in a first-person 
 view and at times works exactly like your average post-millennium shooter, however it's the RPG 
 elements which revolutionise the game. Despite satisfying trigger happy FPS gamers, Deus Ex implements 
 a skill system in which as the player advances in the game, they are able to increase skills and 
 techniques in areas such as hacking, stealth and of course specialisation in heavy weaponry; this 
 offers multiple ways in carrying out your tasks throughout the game and of course there's the option 
 to mix and match these skills allowing you to vary your approach to given situations each time.
 
  
  The storyline in the game is one of the finest scripts to be written in video gaming. Fans of conspiracy 
 theories and generally fast moving counter-plots would rejoice at this title which is plentiful 
 of twists, shocks and turnabouts throughout the game. Another excellent feature of the game is 
 it's multiple ending outcome; depending on your decisions and actions in the game you are forced 
 into one of three completely different and equally gripping endings which when concluded, sees 
 you playing through the game again for that different conclusion in the end. The time taken for 
 completion of the game varies depending on the gamer's playing style and decisions so it will be 
 almost impossible for me to predict a time range however I can still guarantee that the game is 
 decently lengthy as well as having enough replayability.
  
  On a technical front, Deus Ex succeeds well. The sights and sound of the several cities in the 
 game are excellent; baring in mind that this game was released 7 years ago you would notice that 
 the graphics despite not being visually stunning are still more than bearable to this day. On the 
 other hand the music and sound effects are terrificly well adapted throughout the game and really 
 immerse the player in the atmosphere of the game.
  
  Deus Ex has been and still is hailed as one of the best games created in modern video gaming. It 
 has received award after award and is constantly praised by gamers and critics alike to this day. 
 And it is safe to say that Deus Ex being such an excellent immersing and deep title deserves all 
 the credit it's been given and should without a doubt be in the library of every modern gaming 
 enthusiast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeusEx1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I have very great memories of the anticipation of this games release, and remember the excitment 
 of playing it. Sometimes I will load it up for a bit of nastalgia, and the gameplay still holds 
 up very well. I have been playing games for a very long time (think commador 64) so i think i have 
 some credibility in that regard. That being said,, In my opinion,, this is the number one best 
 game I have ever played. The story is deep, the characters are interesting, you feel like your 
 in a real world visiting real locations, the seemingly endless ways to navigate and complete levels 
 keeps the game from getting boring. The game is very very long for a shooter almost 40 hours long, 
 The RPG elements work well and the upgrades you can get give you an instant feeling of accomplishment 
 and your characters new abilities come in handy in many situations, im just rambling on,, basically 
 if youve never played this game,, you must give it a try,, and stick with it because it only gets 
 better if you can hang in for the 40 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom_7991
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  I've written countless reviews on this game so please let me summarise with the repetition of four 
 words...
  
  It is the best....
  
  It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. 
 It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. 
 It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. 
 It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. 
 It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. 
 It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. 
 It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. 
 It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. 
 It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. 
 It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. 
 It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. 
 It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. 
 It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. It is the best. 
 It is the best. Thankyou
  
  tom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  You would be hard pressed to find a better FPS-RPG hybrid since they are rare. Barring Stalker 
 which will be released in 3 days, this still holds the title. I can't tell you how many times I 
 have played this game over the years each time finding a new secret or doing something different 
 . The game's replay value is extreme. The gameplay is just perfect and this game supports widescreen! 
 Now THAT alone tells you something.. think back 2000 .. widescreen was almost unheard of. But this 
 game still supports it. That is a testament to its longevity as a perfect game. Sure the graphics 
 by TODAYs standards are not very good.. but BUT in a time where 3D games were just beginning.. 
 this one was great. Diablo 2 was released around the same period.. and it had a slight 3D effect 
 to it.. But it also supported 2D.. which is what it used the most.. I have to say the graphics 
 (for its time) a 10.. for being perfect the atmosphere in which the game is placed in really gave 
 it a style all its own.
  
  Sound.. Very good for the time.. the music was techno style similar to what great soundtracks UT99 
 had... Personally I still love the soundtrack! 10 there too..
  
  Gameplay: hmm FPS and RPG.. that should tell you enough of how the gameplay is.. first rate.. very 
 well implemented and well designed. The game plays perfectly then and now.. Value: 10 here too.. 
 I still find things I had not seen in other runthroughs. Truly a game worth your 50 bucks back 
 then. And even moreso today
  
  My personal score.. well 10 obviously. I just love RPGs and love FPS.. but this combines the two 
 genres perfectly recommended to those people who love both genres. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkKiller1990
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  This game has one of the longest most exciting story I have ever seen, although its considered 
 to have crappy graphics now, but a remake for the same story and level but in next gen graphics 
 would be fantastic, this game is very unique, action based first person shooter with dynamic characters 
 and object that you can interact with,..
  
  I rated the graphics 9, thought it deserves less, but at the time I played it, it was just incredible, 
 the levels are huge, with many structures like clubs to high-rises and many many other areas such 
 as underwater laboratories, the story is put up well, and is very dramatic..
  You can create your own character with his own abilities and skills to either make him a spy typed 
 guy or an action based Rambo ...
  
  If you like games that are similar to RPG but in a first person view... This is the game for you...
 
  
  This game is obviously the BEST in the old days, and still is now but with **** graphics xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperHero687
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Dues Ex is, in my opinion, one of the deepest and most satisfying computer games ever produced. 
 It presents a stark vision of a very plausible future, in which powerful corporations and advanced 
 science work behind the scenes to influence world politics.
  
  You play as J. C Denton, the second nano-enhanced super agent ever created (the first being your 
 brother Paul) . Over the course of the game you acquire a whole suite of interesting and useful 
 bio-abilities like super human speed and strength, damage resistance, and enhanced vision that 
 can see through walls. Additionally, you develop a wide range of skills like hacking and the ability 
 to more effectively use different types of weapons. This wide ranging skill tree combines well 
 with the array of skills, letting you play the game in many different ways. For example, you could 
 install the cloaking implant, which makes you invisible to any organic enemies (but not bots or 
 cameras, although there's an implant for that as well) and concentrate on your rifle skill to become 
 a deadly, silent sniper assassin. Or, you could focus on your heavy arms and damage reduction abilities 
 to become a deadly, rocket wielding tank.
  
  This ability to play the game so many different ways is matched by Ion Storm's amazing level design, 
 which allows you to approach every challenge in multiple different ways. You can always run in 
 with guns blazing, but there's usually a locked storage shed or sewer grate somewhere that you 
 can unlock, or a nearby computer terminal you could hack, that will put you in a much better position 
 to attack from, or allow you to bypass the fight all together.
  
  The story begins with you taking the field as the newest agent for UNATCO (the military arm of 
 the future's equivalent of the UN) , trying to suppress a dangerous terrorist organization. It quickly 
 spins off into unexpected directions however, and you have many opportunities to pick your friends 
 and your enemies along the way. It's a fairly long game, with a wide ranging story that takes you 
 around the globe. By the end, you have a satisfying sense of being the super powered bad ass you're 
 supposed to be. While you acquire and upgrade your skills and powers, and develop a tricked out 
 arsenal of upgraded weaponry, Deus Ex does a fantastic job of scaling up the difficulty believably 
 and appropriately, forcing you to use all your tricks, and develop new ones, to advance through 
 the game's missions. The very satisfying ending allows you to save (or take control of) the world 
 in several different ways depending on who you allied yourself with along the way.
  
  Though the graphics are definitely dated by today's standards, at the time they were amazing. Deus 
 Ex was one of the first games to put a lot of interactive items and surfaces into the gameworld. 
 You could pick up a flower pot and throw it around a corner to distract a guard (or lure him into 
 a trip mine you planted earlier) , and you could break any glass windows or surfaces to create your 
 own entrances.
  
  With a wide open world in which your choices actually made a significant difference, a skill system 
 that allowed you to tackle challenges exactly the way you wanted to, and a deep and satisfying 
 story, Deus Ex paved new ground in genre-blending and FPS design. Since you can currently pick 
 up the game of the year edition for 5 or 10 bucks online or at Wal-Mart, everyone owes it to themselves 
 to track this game down and enjoy it if they haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradleybear89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I personally feel this is one of the best video games of all time. Ok the graphics were not particularly 
 good and the ai could have done with a little work
  
  Ok now that i have mentioned the two minor negatives I can reveal why this is a must for anyone 
 interested in pc games. The freedom that deus ex gives you is remarkable, for anyone so called 
 mission there are usually 2 or maybe 3 different ways of achieving your objective. I think half 
 life 2 is a great game but even that which came out a few years after deus ex is very linear. If 
 more games followed deus ex's fps/roleplaying format then brilliant games would be created.
  
  Most fps have a main character which has no personality and is there simply because he can 
 shoot the hair of a dog at 100 yards. In deus ex you are JC Denton a cyborg who is fully upgradeable 
 and is able to make his own choices in certain situations.
  
  For these reasons deus ex has a huge replay value as it is possible to go through the game many 
 times without twice doing it in the same way, be it creating a stealthy character or one which 
 seems to absorb bullets deus ex is thoroughly enjoyable.
  
  For anyone that has &pound;5 to spare go out and buy this game and just see how this is really 
 a much underated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackleech
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 21, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10 A lot of options and ways to play the game
  
  Graphics: 7/10 It looks alright... but the textures and models get repetitive.
  
  Sound: 8/10 
 Music and sound effects are realistic, but voice acting is poor.
  
  Value: Quite replayable, but lacks multiplayer (understandable)
  
  Tilt: 10/10 It can be fun 
 and the storyline is quite interesting
  
  Good: Gameplay and replayability
  
  Bad: Voice acting especially at some parts, and really repetitive graphics
  
  Who Should Play: Not 
 for the trigger-happy person
  
  Potential: +-0/10 Patches do not do much
  
  Conclusion: One of the best RPG/shooter hybrids for the PC of its time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorbichov
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: One of the first games to ever merge FPS and RPG successfully and come out with a game 
 that is fairly easy to get to grips with, and very fun to play. There is a staggering array of 
 weapons to use, each one customizable to increase range, damage, stability, or add a scope, silencer, 
 or laser pointer.
  Most weapons also had different types of ammo, which made up for the slightly irritating loss of 
 a secondary weapon attack. This game pioneered the idea of a player-driven storyline, where the 
 player can directly influence events in the story. Whilst not as fitting with the original; DE: Invisible 
 War, truly expanded on this, and has now managed to pass itself on, notable so towards the Splinter 
 Cell franchise.
  
  Graphics: At the time the game came out, Deus Ex's graphics were something difficult to contend 
 with. Whilst not very up-to-date nowadays, Deus Ex clearly conveys its story through the graphics 
 it has.
  
  Sound: In terms of SFX, it's exactly what you'd expect from a more modern game. In terms of the 
 music, the music was very fitting of the dystopian society, and is also remarkably catchy.
  
  Value: Considering the above, and that it is now out on budget, there is absolutely no doubt 
 about its value.
  DE: IW is also available on the Mastertronic PCGamer label 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  The headless shell of the Statue of Liberty is but a gloomy oxidized metal shadow silhouetted by 
 the high-rise lights of nighttime New York. National Secessionist Forces terrorists mark off their 
 patrols, passing through the lights that dot Liberty Island. Bodies of UNATCO (the United Nations 
 Anti-Terrorist Coalition) soldiers lie where they died. All is quiet save for the crunch of their 
 boots on the gravel and walkways.
  
  Nothing else moves - not in the light anyway. Deep in the shadows there is slow, methodical movement. 
 Terrorists who stray too close suddenly disappear from view, their lifeless bodies hidden deep 
 within the darkness. Tranquilizer darts, fired from a crossbow, strike down those foolish enough 
 to linger too long in the glare of the street lights. Then, quickly, you emerge from the shadows, 
 pick up the bodies and return them to the shadows. This is the life of a UNATCO officer. This is 
 Deus Ex, an Eidos Interactive and Ion Storm release. Deus Ex is a first-person shooter game that 
 wraps the storyline around each mission you have to undertake, building it down through the course 
 of the game. This isnt a simple good-guys-versus-bad-guys game. It is more complex than that. 
 In the intro movie you are treated to a discussion between two men who have dreams of ruling the 
 world. Their weapon appears to be a plague that is slowly annihilating the worlds population. 
 Their inducement to having men in power follow their whim is to dangle vaccine in front of them 
 Facing death or a reprieve from watching ones life slip away is enough. Senators, world politicians 
 fall quickly in line. And there is also that matter of genetic engineering and manipulation. In 
 fact, you, as Denton, are a product of enhancement technology. You will employ weapon skills, 
 computer skills, stealth and a little larceny with the ability to shoot first and ask questions, 
 later - unless you are under orders to detain and question. As in the first mission. You, alone, 
 have to retake Liberty Island, rescue the hostage and snag the terrorist leader for questioning. 
 Its not that easy. And its best to go slow. Sure, you can get the code to walk in the front door 
 of the Statue, or you can hunt around to find the back way in and use the element of surprise to 
 your advantage. The controls of Deus Ex are fairly intuitive. This program does not break new ground, 
 nor require gamers to learn a whole new set of commands in order to succeed. You can adjust the 
 mouse sensitivity (this controls where you look and how you aim) , and it is best not to set it 
 too high. If you do, instead of being methodical, you will spin at the slightest breath and that 
 dead aim you had will be off, your target will be unscathed and able to sound the alarm. The game 
 board for this game is huge. You will be treated to scenarios throughout the world, beginning in 
 New York. There is rioting in Paris and trouble in Hong Kong. Youll have the opportunity to explore, 
 annihilate and hopefully survive in these locations. The graphical and audio elements go hand-in-hand. 
 The three-dimensional graphics are well done, but really work in conjunction with the three-dimensional 
 sound effects. You can hide in the dark and judge where the enemy is by the volume of their boots 
 on the ground. Hiding in the shadows and using the light to silhouette your target is a handy trick. 
 Characters - and there are quite a number of them - are polygonal. Communication is audio and with 
 subtitles. And if you must make a decision, you are given the choices in text form. Click on the 
 one you want and your character will verbalize your wishes. If there is a drawback to this program 
 it is in the saving department. You can save at any point in the mission, as long as you are not 
 engaged in a conversation or action. The problem arises when you see what each save costs you in 
 terms of hard drive space. The game itself will not wipe out hard drive space, but each save will 
 cost you hard drive space, which really adds up in a hurry. The solution? Dont save every moment 
 in a separate file. Or at least if you find that necessary, purge the saves you dont really need 
 at the end of a session. The dictionary defines deus ex machina (it is derived from the Greeks) 
 as, among other things, anyone who unexpectedly intervenes to change the course of events. That 
 is what your character of Denton is. Inserted into seemingly impossible scenarios alone - the fate 
 of all that is right is riding on your shoulders. Deus Ex bears many of the elements of interactive 
 shooter games, but in no way is diminished by those similarities. This program will quickly thrust 
 you into the heart of the action, and give you the sinking feeling that you arent prepared for 
 this quite yet. But you will also thrill to the challenge. Sneaking around in the dark, using computer 
 technology to hack your way into buildings and systems, and being a very lethal individual combine 
 to make this program an intense and enjoyable experience. Deus Ex is rated M for mature players 
 (ages 17 and over) due to animated blood and animated violence.
  
  Install: Medium. While uneventful from a visual standpoint, this program wont eat too much space 
 on your hard drive during initial install. Gameplay: 9 Fast-paced and control-sensitive, this program 
 will get the adrenaline rushing in a big hurry. Graphics: 8.5. Lighting effects, the interplay 
 of shadows and the polygonal figures take this program beyond the realm of a first-person shooter. 
 Sound: 8.5. In a program like this, sound is extremely important. Deus Ex delivers with solid ambient, 
 three-dimensional sound. Though nothing extraordinary, it supports the graphical elements very 
 well. Difficulty: 9. This product requires a bit of thought in addition to quick reflexes. Getting 
 your controls to the point where you can easily control them is invaluable to success here. But 
 even on the easiest of the four difficulty levels, this game is challenging. Concept: 7.5. The 
 overall storyline feels a little like Urban Chaos (another Eidos Interactive release) with the 
 sinister plot behind the seemingly random acts of violence and terrorism. However, this program 
 takes it to a world-wide scope, rendering familiar locations with futuristic looks. Through in 
 the genetics coding issue and you have a program that walks the tightrope between the real and 
 surreal, and does it very well. Overall: 9. In spite of having this program consume a lot of hard 
 drive space in the saving process, Deus Ex is compelling, great to look at, and a whole lot of 
 fun to play. The options package gives the gamer solid control over the elements of the game and 
 the storyline builds with each mission completed. This program is quite a lot of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot about this game I REALLY WANT to like. I love the cyberpunk atmosphere. I really 
 dig the whole vibe of this game.
  
  But in the end, I felt really disappointed.
  
  The main problem is that this world is so interesting, but the system was so pointless. I found 
 very quickly I didn't give a hoot WHAT powers I selected, or what weapons I had. It didn't really 
 matter. I just ran around and pummeled everything to death with big solid hand to hand weapons.
 
  
  You really don't need anything else. I couldn't find any reason to GO ON. I completed it, but I 
 didn't get any of that feeling of accomplishment you get at discovery and personal growth I usually 
 get in an RPG. Ooooh, new weapon, power, unlockable, or whatever. This makes the whole experience 
 rather vanilla. Sneak up on enemy, hit them real hard, rinse, repeat. Why am I still doing this?
 
  
  Well, I DID like the world, and I wanted to see how things ended. But, while the plot was decent, 
 but didn't knock me over. I got dragged in, but didn't feel satisfied in the end.
  
  Overall, I was pretty let down by this game when I really wanted to love it. It was worth the money 
 though, and I definitely plan to try the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  When it came out, it helped to define the genre of games that where action/shooter/character builder. 
 I think it put to death such games like the old doom and dark forces where you are just a person 
 - precreated and you shoot your way through a level, find some keys, flip some switches and go 
 on to the next level. THE THING that this game has that is really really great that not a lot of 
 the more graduated games have to day was the character's ability to actually speak the lines that 
 you chose for him to say in a conversation. That made the game very real. Even in Oblivion your 
 character does not actually say the lines that you chose him to say and that serves to take away 
 from the quality of gaming. They need to bring that aspect up in games again. I loved the upgrading 
 of the character to make him bigger stronger faster, I loved the offices and the fact that I had 
 email that affected game story line. I loved sniping. The graphics were super. Of course I can't 
 fail to mention that this game was one of the first to allow for open ended endings. I did want 
 to see naked A. I.'s doing it though. Cool game - 9.5. Rule 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterch_sniper
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex is a good game with some good graphics, the story is pretty casual. You discover a conspiracy 
 to take over the world, so the only one who can stop them is you. The role-playing elements are 
 easy to see, you can buy stuff, or steal it, you can choose one of three endings, and other assorted 
 things, like how to play the game. You can also use 'bio-mods' in the game, which are like the 
 ability's from System Shock. Unfortunately, you can't go all bad guy and go with the enemy, your 
 only on one the more good person sides.
  
  GOOD: The graphics are good and so is the game-play, and the sound quality is good for a game from 
 2000.
  
  BAD: A little bit of the story is linear.
  
  This is a definite MUST BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I had heard of this game on the radio of all places and had wanted to play it for ages, but not 
 finding it anywhere until a year later i'm glad I tuned in that night! The story is uber-cool, 
 i've never played a game that had a better storyline, Morrowind is close due to the thousands of 
 story's available, but Deus Ex takes the cake. The futuristic, conspiracy, technologically laden 
 game world is really well done, and it is the story of the game that will keep you going till the 
 end. Gameplay is great, it's a mix of First Person Shooter and RPG, and with augmentations at your 
 disposable you can become something similiar to Neo in the matrix with strength, vision, and body 
 modifications to help you dispose/deceive/evade your enemies. Weapons are excellent, but they start 
 off rather shocking. This is where weapon mods and skills come in, you can upgrade your weapons 
 with bigger clips, scopes, lasers, silencers you name it, but if you haven't got the appropriate 
 skill level you might be hitting air if you're not careful. Skills increase your proficiency not 
 just with weapons but with other things like lock picking, hacking, swimming, and other skills 
 you'll need to survive. Sound is really well done, there are a few bits that could have been better, 
 but they're hardly worth mentioning. All speech is spoken, unless written on computers/pads etc 
 which is really for the best as you'd get sick of reading it all. There are a few gripes however. 
 A. I., while still having the perfect ability to blow you into chunky pieces (literally) , can seem 
 strange in some places. Their movements can be robotic at times (not including the robots of course) , 
 but again, they still have the ability to kill you at the higher skill levels. A few other minor 
 gripes would be that speech is repeated after 3 uses of the npc, but this doesn't apply to cutscene 
 speech. Some of the weapons can be useless as well, the assault shotgun/rifle an example, but they 
 are minor faults as there's plenty of other weapons to choose from. The Dragon's Tooth is such 
 a weapon that you'll be using a lot I guarantee ;) .
  With multiple endings, heaps of side quests, great little features here and there, and the best 
 story i've ever seen or read, this is one game that is easily a recommendation for any serious 
 or casual gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwlanning
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex, simply described, was the greatest achievement of developer Ion Storm. Even though today 
 its graphics are dated, it's still a joy to play. Having gone through it several times myself, 
 using a different playstyle each time, I still have unique game experiences. That's what sets Deus 
 Ex apart from other FPS games; a linear story with non-linear gameplay.
  
  You might think of Deus Ex as a pre-apocalyptic FPS: society is on the verge of breakdown and you 
 as JC Denton are right in the middle of a monstrous collection of conspiracies to take control 
 of the planet. Your beginnings as a UNATCO agent may seem fine and dandy at first, but the ride 
 the game takes you on will totally blow your mind before it's over
  
  The game has all the basic aspects of a great game; an incredible story and plot development, an 
 ambient and engrossing atmosphere, and enough action to keep anybody busy. On top of all this are 
 the most innovative aspects of the game: the nanotechnological implants, skill system, and the 
 non-linear level design. Nanotech implants can be found and installed in your body at varying times 
 during the game, and give you a range of abilities ranging from bullet-proof skin to super-strength 
 to fast health regeneration. However, you need to choose wisely which implants you want, because 
 you have a limited number of places to put them and they cannot be taken out. The skill system 
 improves your abilities in weapons, hacking, lockpicking, etc. by a level system. Once you gain 
 enough skill points in the game, you can add to your skill levels. These skill levels make a drastic 
 impact on your performances in the game, and you will only be able to achieve the highest skill 
 level on a couple of them so you need to tailor them to fit your desired playstyle from the start.
 
  
  The genius of the level design is that it often feels totally non-linear; in general, the game 
 is more than just cleverly-disguised tunnels directing you along as you run into scripted events; 
 they are simply environments that you can explore at will. You also have a variety of ways to pass 
 certain areas of the game; when faced with a locked door, you might pick the lock, or open it by 
 hacking a computer terminal, or search around for a datapad with the access code, or find another 
 way to gain access to what's behind, or simply blast the door open with a grenade (called a LAM 
 in-game) .
  
  The genius of the implants, skills, and level design is that your playstyle determines your game 
 experiences. If you like shooting, you can shoot. If you like sneaking, you can sneak. If you would 
 rather pick locks than hack terminals, you can. If you want to fight with swords instead of projectile 
 weapons, that's an option too (perhaps the best weapon in the game is a sword, by the way) . The 
 story will suck you in from the beginning and before its over you'll be gritting your teeth as 
 you grimly decide the fate of mankind. How much more could you ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  My friend offered me this game and when i saw the cover i thought it looked like crap as their 
 were games like half life 2 and so out their. I installed it and had no clue what to expect. I 
 played the training mission and thought this a quite addictive evan if it has rather poor graphics. 
 As the game progressed it started to get more addictive and one of the greatest video game stories 
 unfolded. I was shocked at how a game made around 5 years ago could offer so much gameplay and 
 freedom. It was not linear and each mission was complety unique. Weapons could be upgraded you 
 could interact with any one and choose your own fate. I must have for all serious gamers and can 
 be purchased for around 7 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Many people I have heard say that this game was just alright, but for some reason I seem to hold 
 this game and super high regard. Maybe it is because it had great graphics when it first came out, 
 maybe it was because I thought it was long and had an intriguing storyline, or maybe it was because 
 it was the first Mature game that I had ever actually beaten. The story may seem like the regular 
 Sci-Fi FPS - anti terrorist organization game, but with all the different twist and turns that 
 this game makes it make one to keep playing even well into the night.
  
  It had a role-playing aspect that was small enough to keep the focus on FPS, but large enough to 
 actually effect the gameplay. But the role-playing asspect of this game also allows it to have 
 multiple replay value.
  
  It also had a multiple replay value because it had more then one ending, each with it's own cutscene 
 at the end.
  
  Most of the voices in the game I believe were great choices, even though there are some times when 
 the voice actors do not seem, how can I put this, motivated enough. The controls are decent, but 
 can always change because it is a PC game.
  
  Overall I may have to put this at least in my top 5 games of all time, just because I love this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jooj
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  It's 2006 and i've yet to come across an FPS as challenging, open ended and rewarding as this fabulous 
 game. Not initially popular (it came from no where) sequels have sadly tried to 'correct' 'faults' 
 in the game, rarely to good effect. I love the non-linear structure of the game, not just within 
 levels but whole plot streams can be changed by your actions.
  
  Graphics are directx 7 so don't expect too much, all very UT 1999, but those of you with older 
 machines might appreciate this.
  
  The expansive environments more than make up for the dated graphic with none of the claustrophobia 
 and loading every few seconds that occurred in the sequel.
  
  Wonderful stuff, often copied, yet to be bettered! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G4Gamer92
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  That's all I have to say. Deus Ex is simply the greatest game ever created. Everything about it 
 is just perfect. The game may not have the greatest graphics, but it doesn't really even matter 
 that much in this game. The characters in the game are memorable, the soundtrack is amazing, the 
 storyline is great too. I love how it is a FPS/RPG and the length of the game is around 30+ hours. 
 I've played it several times and am playing it over again right now. J. C. Denton, the character 
 you play, is such a cool character too. There are so many things you can do in this game, from 
 drinking cans of soda to hacking into a terrorist's personal computer files. This is probably the 
 one game that I think everyone MUST OWN! The PS2 version is good as well, and they worked hard 
 porting it over. Whichever version, Deus Ex is the greatest game ever. I hated the sequel, Deus 
 Ex: Invisible War, sadly. Anyways, if you haven't bought this game yet, GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokoblak24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Old school.
  
  Deus Ex is one of the best games ever and ever, and probably just the best.
  When I was younger, 
 i was totally addicted to this game. It's storyline, lasting appeal and atmosphere just run over 
 Half Life 2. Yes, the graphics are very dated, bud when you play it for an hour, you get used to 
 it. For the sound, I can say that sound effects are dated now. Very dated. But music. Music. It's 
 apocalyptic soundtrack just rocks. You just get into the game.
  
  The game is seriously needing remake.
  
  Yes, I scored realistic, but my score isn't enough 
 for this game. I would give it 9.5, bud here graphics and sound are taking too big role of score. 
 GS's rating system really needs some new elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcticadvance
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most fun and intuitive games I have ever played. The story line is unbeatable 
 and the gameplay is excellent, thanks to the unreal engine. The replay factor of this game is extremely 
 high, the first time you play the game, you will probably only see about 60% of the game. The ability 
 to play through the entire game without killing anyone adds a massive challenge for more experienced 
 players. A good buy, and extremely cheap. This is a game that everyone can enjoy, being the first 
 in the series it is also the best (Deus Ex 2 sucks) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tzimisce656
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex is truely one of the best shooter/RPGs out there. In fact it may just be the perfect combination 
 of these two genres. This game brings the player in to a world that seems to live and breath around 
 them. Intrigue and conspiracy are around every turn, leaving the player to wonder: Who can i really 
 trust? more then once. Furthermore Deus Ex contains a system of multiple pathways through every 
 level which was a real change compared to the tunnel shooters of the past and present. Of course 
 this game is now quite old, but it really offers much more then a lot of modern games. It has good 
 gameplay, a well formed environment and just about anything else one could ask for. Its the sort 
 of game that is well worth picking up from the bargain bin if you can get it, because it is an 
 excellent landmark in the path of development of pc games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraeg
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  I am willing to admit that Deus Ex is a game that has it's share of problems. For one, it has bad 
 graphics, bad, but no more than that. As well as this it has some sections that are almost impossibly 
 difficult, however, despite these it still manages to be simply amazing. The stunning gameplay 
 makes up doubly for any of the games minor faults. The game revolutionised the rpg genre with it's 
 sublime improvement system. That system alone made me replay the game twice just to experience 
 different ways of playing. The maps had so many ways of getting through them that you could never 
 twice have the same experience.
  
  Really, this is the one game that inspired me to invest in gaming and the game that has sucked 
 away most of my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex was a fantastic game for its time when it was released in 2000, and still remains an excellent 
 diversion.
  
  The player controlled J. C. Denton, a futuristic cop who utilized both conventional weapons to include 
 pistols and rifles, as well as weapons and technology of a more science-fiction background, such 
 as multitools (futuristic PDAs which can be used to bypass electrical devices) .
  
  Everything about J. C. Denton is upgradeable. His weapons can be upgraded with improved accuracy 
 or decreased recoil among other upgrades. There are innate skills, such as hacking, marksmanship, 
 and swimming which can be improved throughout the game. Finally, J. C. Denton has augmentations 
 which can be installed and upgraded. Before the augmentations can be installed, J. C. Denton has 
 to find the augmentation canisters. The augmentations allow J. C. Denton to see in the dark, jump 
 higher, and improve ballistic protection among other attributes.
  
  The player maneuvered J. C. Denton through 13 levels, completing various primary and secondary missions 
 for UNATCO, the law enforcement agency responsible for overall law and order in the future. During 
 the game, J. C. Dentons loyalties changed periodically, and the character ended up performing mission 
 s for multiple political factions.
  
  Deus Ex was a fairly open-ended game; while the player had to complete the primary missions, there 
 was a lot of latitude regarding the completion of the numerous secondary missions for each level. 
 It was in the player's best interest to complete the secondary missions, as completion earned points 
 with which to upgrade J. C. Denton's skills.
  
  There was a sequel to Deus Ex in 2003, titled Deus Ex: Invisible War, in which the player reprised 
 the role of J. C. Denton. While the graphics were improved in the sequel, the gameplay wasn't. Deus 
 Ex was by far the better game, and it didn't suffer from bugs as its successor did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DartingFro
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 25, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Behold the gaming nirvana that is Deus Ex, still able to bask in glory after six years. Deus Ex 
 is a Role-Playing Game/First-Person shooter that blends just the right amount of action, intelligent 
 story, and immersive qualities that make video games worthy of being called a work of art.
  
  You play JC Denton (you can choose his name yourself, but you will always be called JC Denton 
 - your codename - in both this game and the sequel) , a biomodified and nanotechnologically enhanced 
 'super-soldier'. (Supposedly) Your whole life you have been training to become one of UNATCO's 
 (United Nations Anti-Terrorist Coalition) greatest military assets, an agent that could far surpass 
 the abilities of a regular human being. You are only one of two of your kind, with your brother 
 Paul Denton being your counterpart. You are special in the respect that, while you are heavily 
 modified with equipment, you are able to appear exactly like another normal human being, except 
 for the lack of the ability to smile.
  
  This quality alone makes you the perfect protagonist for an intelligent, mind-bending game that 
 will make you question the idealogies of government and where the world should be headed. The game 
 takes place in the not-so-far-off future and at the beginning, you are dropped in the middle of 
 a fight between the NSF and UNATCO (with you being on the UNATCO side) taking place on Liberty 
 Island. The soldiers have been told to cease fire, and you are given a gun to complete your objective 
 alone: interrogate the NSF official leading the assault on Liberty Island and, if possible, liberate 
 a fellow soldier from their clutches. Sounds fairly generic at first, and it is, except that it's 
 executed in such a way that you are brought right into the power struggle of these two (and maybe 
 more, as you go...) groups.
  
  It doesn't take long for things to get interesting, and an hour or two in the game opens up what 
 is really happening in the world. What follows is a sophisticated and extremely well-executed plot 
 that holds tones of politics, government, philosophies, and war all in the same package. You will 
 have to ask yourself big questions when playing: What's the real difference between God and government? 
 , Why is this computer so freaking smart? , and What the hell did this guy just say? 
  
  Some of the dialogue will probably leave some gamers confused, as they are extremely intelligent 
 conversations that usually end with no conclusion, and nothing to hit an idea home. This, however 
 frustrating it may be for some, is an effective way to keep the player questioning everything and 
 everyone around him. The game will take you across many areas (Hong Kong, Liberty Island, France, 
 to name a few) that are all distince in their own ways, and with their own localized conflicts 
 that you can either help out with or ignore entirely (anyone say 'side quest'?) .
  
  I'm going to conclude here, because I'm too lazy to go on: each of the game's three different endings 
 are extreme, but they fit the character and complexity of the game perfectly. While it spawned 
 a (somewhat) disappointing sequel, Deus Ex is still an awesome original that will affect both your 
 mind and soul.
  
  Jesus Christ, JC! - Paul Denton 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 24, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Five and half years ago, Deus Ex was released for the PC. At the time, it was hailed as one of 
 the most original, open ended, and compelling computer games of all time. It made numerous lists 
 and won many awards. Today, it remains an amazing game with a strong cult following. Deus Ex represents 
 a time when a computer game gave you the most possible bang it could for your buck, and had you 
 coming back for more. In the years since Deus Ex's release, the computer game industry, specifically 
 in the area of first person shooters (FPS) , have continually dumbed down their products in order 
 to reach a wider audience, and to allow conversion of their games to the ever-expanding console 
 market. As a result, polygon counts have gone up as map sizes go down, wide open streets are replaced 
 with dark corridors, complex game mechanics and important features are abandoned so that all of 
 a games options can be accessed by only a handful of buttons on a console controller. You have 
 only to look at some of the most popular FPS titles on the PC market today: With the exception 
 of Half Life 2, most of these games have you fighting some sort of scary monster in poorly lit 
 hallways (think Doom 3, Quake 2, F. E. A. R., etc.) Even Deus Ex's sequel, Invisible War, was nothing 
 more than an Xbox game for the PC. In my opinion, Deus Ex was the last great single player experience 
 for the PC. Many of the features and concepts that make the game so great have disappeared from 
 the genre over the years. Deus Ex serves as a prime example of how the first person shooter has 
 gone astray. The Story The year is 2052. You play J. C. Denton, a super soldier of sorts who works 
 for an anti-terrorist wing of the United Nations known as U. N. A. T. C. O. Over the course of the game, 
 you will meet interesting characters, and work for numerous factions as you complete missions across 
 the planet. Deus Ex takes place in a dystopian future, where the world is in decay, and humanity 
 is suffering from a disease known as the grey death . It is a world where nations are controlled 
 by covert organizations, governments oppress their citizens and man kinds greatest struggle, is 
 a war on terror. One of Deus Ex's highly acclaimed features is its strong story line, full of plot 
 twists and sudden turns. There is literally hours worth of information stored in computers, news 
 terminals, data pads, newspapers and such, scattered all over the game world. The game does a good 
 job of making the main plots of the story known to you. J. C. has a tiny implant in his brain, which 
 allows other characters to communicate with him. These communications show up as little windows 
 on your HUD, and are constantly there to provide you with information, mission objectives and plot 
 points. In-game cut scenes, using the game play engine, are also used. In these scenes, you can 
 choose your responses to questions and statements being directed at you to gain more information 
 on plot, characters or mission objectives. Much of the games twisting plot points are based on 
 popular conspiracy theories. The information in the game has been well studied and represented, 
 and it will have you questioning your own world as soon as you beat the first level. The very nature 
 of the world you are presented with serves to provoke thought. You'll find yourself wondering how 
 this dark world you occupy was shaped, and you'll replay the game several times to pick up whatever 
 information you may have missed. The story, the conspiracies, the random information lying about, 
 all helps create a complex plot that keeps you interested. Many games today lack this. Most first 
 person shooters today are all about the body counts, and not very deep. Even Half Life 2, with 
 its strong game play and entertaining characters, has very little actual plot. There is an oppressive 
 regime that you plan to bring down, and about 5 minutes of the game is spent on explaining the 
 history of the game world. There isn't even an option to learn more. Deus Ex presents you with 
 a main plot, and the option to learn more as a reward for exploring. I haven't played any other 
 game since this that has kept me interested in its story the whole way through. Game Play When 
 you first start the game, you must choose a skin type for your character, and then choose what 
 weapon and utility skills you want to spend your allotted points in. Every time you complete an 
 objective in the game, you are rewarded with skill points. You then spend these points to upgrade 
 your rank in a specific feat. For example, at rank 1 for rifles, your aim will move about randomly 
 when you are zooming in, and it will take longer to aim your shots successfully. At rank 4, your 
 aim will not waver while you zoom in, and your shots are accurate, even if you don't take time 
 to aim correctly. You can upgrade different weapon skills depending on your preference, and you 
 can also increase your skills in non-weapon related abilities such as hacking, lock picking, and 
 first aid. The skill system is a great feature, which compels you to stick around on a mission, 
 performing whatever other tasks you can to accumulate more skill points. It's just one of many 
 features that adds more meat to the game play. Another interesting feature and one of the games 
 biggest selling points, is the augmentation system. Over the course of the game, you'll have access 
 to numerous augmentations which, when activated, give you special powers. For example, one augmentation 
 allows you to turn invisible; another dampens all the sound you make. When used, these augmentations 
 increase your ability to stealth and affect the way you play the game. Other augmentations such 
 as damage shields, super speed and toxin resistance make fighting easier. Using these augs drains 
 your bioelectric energy, and you can recharge it using cells you find through the game. This is 
 a fun feature, which supplements the other elements of play. Deus Ex is incredibly open ended. 
 On most levels, you'll enter an area with some background information, a mission objective (which 
 is stored in an easily accessible log) and whatever you have at your disposal. It's up to you to 
 determine how you're going to get the job done. Just about every objective in the game can be completed 
 in multiple ways. You can go the stealth route, unlock doors, sneak past guards on set patrol routes 
 and use computer terminals to complete your mission. Or you can take the gung-ho approach, going 
 in guns blazing, killing every thing you see. Both work, and you can play a level with a combination 
 of the two if you wish. You can even play the entire game with out using a weapon. The open ended 
 lay out is the game's greatest strength. Unfortunately, few games today have caught on yet. I can't 
 think of a single recent FPS that allows you choose how you're going to finish a level. They all 
 give you one single path to follow, and a couple of weapons to do the job. The byproduct of this 
 is that they may be fun games, but you'll have little or no reason to play them again. And since 
 games continue to be getting more expensive, that's a terrible trend. I've played Deus Ex about 
 9 times or so, finding new information, and engaging new tactics every time. No FPS has come close 
 to reaching this level of replay value. The games length varies greatly depending upon whether 
 or not you skip through the dialogue and side objectives. I've heard of players reaching the end 
 of the game in as short as 2 1/2 hours. It usually takes me about 15-30 hours to complete the game 
 if i attempt to finish side quests and read all the info that lies around. It's a testament to 
 the game's brilliance, that a player spending 2 1/2 hours playing the game can have just as much 
 fun as a player spending 30 hours playing the game. Once again, game length is another aspect of 
 the FPS genre that continues to decline. How annoying is it when you spend 50$ on a new game, only 
 to beat it in two nights, and then feel no urge to play it again? (I'm looking at you Quake 4!) 
 Today, a games length seems to be directly proportionate to how good the graphics are. Better graphics 
 = shorter game. One other major thing to point out is that the enemy A. I. is incredibly stupid. 
 You can stand in front of an enemy for 3 seconds before he even sees you, then, all you have to 
 do is duck into a room, and keep shutting the door as he tries to open it. He'll eventually lose 
 you and return to his patrol. This is the game's only true failing. I actually enjoy the enemy 
 A. I. They're stupidity makes stealthing around much easier. In combat though, they have good aim, 
 and can cut you down pretty quick, especially on the most difficult setting. On the highest difficulty, 
 you can be killed with one well placed hit. It's realistic, but the fact that the enemy A. I. is 
 so dumb, prevents the game from ever getting frustratingly difficult. It's challenging, but you're 
 never pulling your hair out. Atmosphere Even for its time, the games graphics were never that great. 
 This is a fine example of how a good game is made when the priority is shifted away from graphics, 
 and towards game play. Playing Deus Ex, you quickly forget about low polygon counts, partially 
 because all the elements of the game help create an incredibly dark, immersive environment. The 
 use of ambient music is wonderful. The whole game has a techno, cyber sound to it, and it really 
 makes you feel like your part of J. C.'s world. As a result of the low rendering demands, the game 
 will run on most old systems. The greatest folly of today's game industry is that it puts out products 
 that many people's PC's just cant handle. Thanks in part to its age, and to the focus on game play 
 rather than graphics, Deus Ex will run well, and be enjoyable almost regardless of what kind of 
 machine you have. Sometimes, you may find yourself stopping to take in the environment. The world 
 you inhabit is worn down. It feels and looks like our own in many ways, but with a futuristic undertone. 
 Even the weapons, for the most part, have a conventional look. The technology represented in the 
 game isn't as in your face as it is in other titles. You'll notice things when you get up close, 
 but on the surface, J. C.'s world and ours look alike. The game has some great music. The Game of 
 the Year edition even includes the mp3s on an audio CD. It's all techno, and it's generally appropriate 
 to what is happening on the screen. It picks up during fights, and slows down when traveling or 
 talking to people. The sound effects in the game are good as well. There is nothing special in 
 particular. They're just another well-done part of the game that helps make the world seem more 
 real. The game features extensive voice acting, but doesn't feature expression change on the characters. 
 This is another minor fault, but it doesn't affect the game play in any way. The voice acting is 
 pretty good, with just about every line in the game recorded. Some of the characters have fake 
 sounding accents, and J. C.'s voice is flat, regardless of what's happening around him.
  
  This is one of my favorite games of all time. Hardly any games before or since has crafted such 
 a well-rounded and entertaining single player experience. If you don't own this game, pick up a 
 copy, its cheap. If you own it, pick it up again; I'm sure you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 28, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Don't gt me wrong... I'm a huge Half Life fan, and that masterpiece was definitely the game-opiate 
 that got me hooked. But at the time of Deus Ex's release, no other game combined all the elements 
 of action, stealth, role-playing, character interaction, and mutually exclusive weapon selections 
 into such an expansive, open ended environment.
  
  OK, so maybe the graphics, comical by todays' standards, were a little outdated even for 2000. 
 And yes, some of the voice acting makes my ears ache. But those shortcomings can't change the fact 
 that Deus Ex successfully combines so many diverse elements into a complex, immersive conspiracy 
 story that keeps the player involved right up to the end. And the end is a long time in coming... first 
 time players can easily invest 30-40 hours, and given all the mutually exclusive options, just 
 like Lays potato chips, no one can play just once.
  
  For those unfamiliar with role-playing games, it works like this. Through out the game, you are 
 given choices of which skills or capabilities you wish to upgrade. Selecting one option means you 
 eliminate another for the remainder of the game. For example, you may decide you wish to move silently, 
 but you must give up the ability to move faster and jump higher. You may choose to become an expert 
 marksman, but at the expense of proficiency with heavy weapons like the rocket launcher or flame 
 thrower. This, coupled with the fact that you have a finite inventory of weapons that you can carry 
 (and upgrade as well) , presents a plethora of options to pick from, and the player must carefully 
 consider his choices before deciding on a particular path. Will you be a human tank, or is stealth 
 the better approach? This all adds to the replay value, since, if you're like me, you're going 
 to want to try every possible alternative the game presents.
  
  Given the graphics competition in games like Half Life 2, Doom 3, and Quake 4, playing Deus Ex 
 may be a little hard on the eyes at first... you're not going to find any of the stunning visuals 
 and special effects that permeate more recent releases. But if you're drawn to a complex story 
 line, full of treachery, conspiracies, and treason, then pick up a copy of Deus Ex... you won't 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iplaygames2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 16, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  deus ex is an amzing game period there are alot of things u can do in this game. this game has 
 a lot of little detials that u dont normaly see in video games even by todays standards. this game 
 is fun to play even if u have beaten the game more then once u still want to play it agian and 
 agian it pertty much never gets old. the voices in this game are pertty good although some of the 
 lines and the tones are a bit medicore its all realalistic and great. whats really cool is that 
 u can do what u want when u want and its liner but at the same time freeraoming which is cool u 
 can chose to be bad or u can be good the story contuies no matter what and ur actions do have conciquinces 
 but there are not like fable or kotor but still its interesting one more thing about the sound 
 the music is amzing its wonderful and thats about it really pertty much this game is amzing and 
 has a cool story as well confuseing but at the same time cool even though it might be hard to understand 
 the frist time u play lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korlis612
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 9, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex is one of those amazingly in-depth games where you can have a lot of influence on the evolution 
 of the story and your character. Skill points can be earnt and put to use learning how to better 
 hack or sneak and avoid fights, or load up on heavy weapons and go in guns blazing. The nanites 
 the main character, JC Denton, carries within him allow for a series of upgrades that make you 
 choose who you want to be - to run faster and jump farther, or to sneak around on silent footsteps? 
 The weapons you amass - assuming you can carry them with an inadvertant game of inventory tetris 
 - can be modified with different ammunition types and silencers, laser sights and scopes.
  
  The story is a pretty epic tale in the relatively near future, where a plague called the Grey 
 Death is spreading across the world, and biomechanical modifications to human beings are commonplace. 
 As a counter-terrorist agent working for the UN, your first job is getting a terrorist group called 
 the NSF off of Liberty Island where your agency's HQ is, but that's only the beginning. The story 
 hops around the world, to Hong Kong, Paris, multiple locations in the US... it's a huge endeavour, 
 and the choices you make, who you trust, affect how it all ends.
  
  Although it's increasingly dated as time goes by, this game really is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 28, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Its been a couple years since I've played this game and I has since passed it on. But I remember 
 it very well.
  
  Its best feature was it giving the player the choice to beat the game in anyway possible. You can 
 approach the mission objective guns-a-blazing or sneak past everybody, hacking through computer 
 to turn the bots against the evildoers. Gameplay like this was new and hard to find in its time. 
 Even today, not many games give the player so much choise ...
  
  I've played the sequel Deux-Ex : Invisible War and must say that this one is way beyond despite 
 being the original. Deus Ex has a storyline so immersive that stopping to play the game was a challenge 
 in its own right.
  
  This is a game that owed Hard Drive space for a long time on my PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 8, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex is a game for the PC that seamlessly mixes two genres, the role-playing game, and the first-person 
 shooter, all into a fantastic mix. In the game, you play as the protagonist JC Denton, working 
 for anti-terrorist group UNATCO. As you progress through the game, you find out the later inner 
 workings of UNATCO and the intents of your brother, Paul Denton.
  
  In the game, you, as JC, progress through the game as a person completely ran by nano-augmentation, 
 you being the second person to go through this process (the first one being Paul) . In Deus Ex, 
 youll find ways to improve the character, which primarily work by these augmentations, such as 
 ones to make you run faster and jump higher, ones that make you stronger, protective shields, automatic 
 healing and cloaking. However, these are things that will deplete your bioelectric energy, which 
 you refill periodically with bioelectric cells or with a robot that recharges bioelectric energy. 
 
  
  The game gives you a choice; you have the option of stealth or action. However, thats the games 
 main problem: you cant play this like you play Half-Life or Quake, youd barely last five minutes. 
 You seriously have to think more logically, taking things slowly. This may put off the first-person 
 shooter players who have itchy trigger fingers, but if youre patient enough, youll get through 
 just fine.
  
  In the game, there are many ways to get through areas, by asking around for assistance, looking 
 at info found on datacubes strewn throughout the game, and even use force. You can use lockpicks 
 to open doors, and use multitools to stop an electrical shortage to continue forward. Since the 
 game primarily works on stealth, you have to find ways to get through areas without causing too 
 much of a ruckus. The game gives you an arsenal of lethal and non-lethal weaponry, but as you get 
 further and further into the game, youre sacked with hard enemies that you have no choice but 
 to use lethal force if you expect to live. Theres also an amount of items such as candy bars, 
 soda, among other things that can be acquired and used in your inventory.
  
  Also, at times, the game can be pretty hard, sometimes youll have to get through an area full 
 of guards with barely any ammunition and literally crawling around on the floor because your enemies 
 killed all health in your legs.
  
  One good thing the game contains is an open-ended nature. You can do things a certain way, or a 
 different way. Make a character live, or kill him. You can sometimes find many different ways to 
 get to the area you want, how you get there is up to the player. This is good, because this warrants 
 having to play through the game several times, making different decisions, which makes the game 
 a little less repetitive. Deus Ex also features a good amount of interactivity, with bulletin boards, 
 ATMs, vending machines, among other things. Computers can be used to help find critical information 
 or can be adjusted to have enemy gun turrets shoot at your enemies rather than you, or to turn 
 off cameras.
  
  Theres cutscenes in the game, and theyre decent, even if its just random camera shots every time 
 somebody speaks. With these cutscenes, youre also given choice, which means that what you say 
 can affect the situation, just like what you do in the rest of the game.
  
  The levels themselves bring to be somewhat believable locations. JC goes from Liberty Island in 
 New York to Paris, Hong Kong, and a few other areas in-between, which gives the game a bit of atmosphere. 
 The only problem is that all the areas take place at nighttime or dusk. While this shows the dystopian 
 attitude the game brings, it just wouldve been nice to play a portion of the game in the daytime.
 
  
  Deus Ex, being released in 2000 with what was back then top-of-the-line Unreal engine technology, 
 had decent graphics for its time, but they have a hard time holding up here. Most of the player 
 models (mostly JC and Paul, among others) look too chunky and thick, and most of the characters 
 have little variety in looks. In addition, mouth movements look very weird (and this was around 
 the time Half-Life had revolutionized that front) . Also the games physics were somewhat problematic, 
 where sometimes the player would slide for no particular reason. In addition, doors have the problem 
 where theyll close, but theyll clip right through you.
  
  Since the game was not really made for very high-end computers that would only exist in the dreams 
 of computer owners everywhere in 2000, the game tends to glitch the graphics a little when you 
 get to certain distances. In addition, there were two occurrences in the same level where the game 
 literally crashed my computer hard, and I was forced to restart the computer. This shouldnt really 
 happen, the game should be utilized with the driver much better.
  
  From an aural experience, Deus Ex doesnt disappoint. All the weapons have distinctive but not 
 too obnoxious noises. Items make noises that would make perfect sense, and there are lots of computer 
 noises everywhere. The voice acting itself is fantastic, only with a few characters does it sound 
 weird, such as some of the Hong Kong guards sounding like they have Australian accents instead.
 
  
  Deus Ex does something that I wish more games did, and thats having music that changes with whats 
 happening on screen. Enemy spots you? The music changes to reflect this. After everything dies 
 down, the music resumes. Theres a separate track for when theres cutscenes, when the player dies, 
 and sometimes when the player is transferred to a new area. The music itself is fantastic, fitting 
 most of the mood, and some of tracks using the Deus Ex theme that appears on the title screen. 
 All the music fits the mood, except some of the action themes, which are a bit too loud.
  
  The Game of the Year edition features a multiplayer component. The multiplayer in Deus Ex is a 
 simplified version of the single player game, with deathmatch and team deathmatch. Now, I say sometimes 
 a game needs a multiplayer component, but Deus Ex could have worked without one. If it needed one 
 that badly, I personally wouldve opted for a co-operation mode instead. Maybe not go through the 
 game, since it is incredibly long, but maybe special side-missions that would affect the single 
 player campaign, or something.
  
  The game itself takes a while to beat (anywhere from 15-40 hours, depending on if you rush through 
 or take your time through things) , so its a good and lengthy game that you could play a few hours 
 and have fun with. The only thing that makes this game annoying is the frustration factor. But 
 seriously, its a good game. Its one of those games that if its mentioned, youll likely be sucked 
 in for a good week or two on this game. Its that good.
  
  Pros: Open-ended storytelling, change to upgrade your character like a role-playing game, good 
 sound, believable environments
  Cons: Certain graphics such as player models dont hold up well, graphics tend to glitch up, player 
 can clip through doors, not for first-person shooter players who have itchy triggers, unneeded 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easy0neasy0ff
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  I must have played through the DE Statue of Liberty demo a dozen times in anticipation of this 
 game. If at first you dont notice, you will soon realize that there are so many different ways 
 to complete any given objective or mission. The size of the levels alone are enough to give you 
 a choice but then they add in hacking/lock-picking tools, silenced weapons/mods, personalized augmentation, 
 pc interaction options. This is the type of game that game devs should look to for inspiration. 
 An FPS with an RPG twist was a fresh new balance that really opened up this game. The Unreal engine 
 was the perfect choice for the environmental detail and interaction required for a game of this 
 magnitude. What you do in earlier missions can effect the game play in later missions. Words cannot 
 describe the gameplay enough. You have to play it in your own way and find out for yourself. Everyone 
 will play it differently and I still replay it and find new things to do. The graphics were great 
 for its time but lacked any real environmental effects - eg. the whole game takes place at night 
 or indoors. The sounds and soundtrack are suitable for the title. The voice acting was stellar 
 and the thousands of lines of conspiracy theorist type dialog was entertaining and sometimes hilarious. 
 ( try going back to somenone and keep talking to them to hear all of their lines of dialog ) . This 
 is one of my most valued games and a pinnacle of gaming effort. Do not pass on the chance to play 
 this game or small grey aliens will shoot green fireballs at you . . . or men in black suits will 
 terrorize you with large overpowered weaponry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  Story -- You are a augmented agent named JC Denton working with a counter terrorist organisation 
 called UNATCO, who is trying to stop the terrorist organisation called the NSF, from spreading 
 a plague called The Gray Death around the world
  
  Graphics: Pros-Some environments like the Hong Kong level look fantastic, weapons look nice, objects 
 around the world look realistic
  Cons-Some environments like UNATCO Island look a bit too bland, character models lack detail
  
 
  Sound: Pros-Great music, weapon sounds are great, some voice acting is great
  Cons-Soundtrack is a bit too short, Foreign voice acting sounds bad
  
  Game Play: Pros-Nice mix 
 of exploration FPS fights and RPG elements
  Cons-Combat can feel a bit sluggish at times
  
  Replay Value-The game is long and should take people anywhere from 15-20 hours to complete 
 which also includes the side quests but then you can play again as a totally different character 
 and choose different responses to the NPCS which adds a whole lot of extra value
  
  Overall-Its a great FPS/RPG hybrid that keeps you entertained throughout thanks to its brilliant 
 story and satisfying combat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbertellotti
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This game came out six years ago and I still think it is the best game I have ever played. I just 
 installed it on the laptop I bought and played it through, and I still enjoyed it as much as I 
 did five years ago. The story line is gripping, there is plenty of interaction within the world 
 which allows you to gain as much experience and delve as deeply into to the story as you like, 
 and best of all, you choose your ending!!! I have yet to play another game that has kept me tied 
 to my computer like Deus Ex. The sequel was okay, but it almost tried too hard to expand on the 
 original. In my scoring, I said 1-2 hour learning curve only because the first level is tough to 
 play through. After that, it all picks up and you just can't stop. Granted, the graphics and audio 
 are a bit dated, but this is still a great game from beginning to end and I still hold true to 
 giving this game the only 10.0 I have ever given on Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corlorde
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This is the game of which I compare other, newer games. To me, this game is the complete package 
 of graphics, story, and action.
  
  i've played this game from beginning to end several times and it is always just a little different 
 every time I play. You can charge ahead or take your time. Your personality can be materialized 
 or translated into the game.
  
  Deus Ex opened up what gaming should be, if you are a fan of First person Shooters (as I am) and 
 I think it was one of the most revolutionary games in its day. Dues Ex 2 was okay and Snowblind 
 fell a little flat but I'd love to see a return of this line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  It's only $9.95 AUS in stores now but that still doesn't make it bargain bin material. The game 
 that revolutionised FPS and Stealth into one addictive package. This game is perfect.
  
  The gameplay is like nothing you have ever seen before. What starts off as a regular "shoot first 
 ask questions later" game, it quickly turns on its head and makes you think about what you are 
 doing in the world.
  
  That's right, everything you do in the world affects how the outcome of the game will be. There 
 are 3 different endings. These aren't just little changes either, they affect the whole game. The 
 shooting is a little sketch if your a big Doom fan, but this game's vice is Stealth, where you 
 must tactically work your way through the level and plan your route effectively.
  
  The story line seems a bit in your face but the scary factor is that it seems like its in touch 
 with our world despite it being 6 years old. Another scary thought is that this is how the world 
 will turn out in the future. The story is as straight as a twistie with so many amazing revelations 
 that will literally have you jumping off your seat. The characters are so malevolently evil and 
 so awesome. You'll find yourself spooked by the amazing taunts by "Icarus" (play the game, you'll 
 know) which actually make you think it's right behind you.
  
  The sound is amazing with great voice acting and the music creates tension easily.
  
  Graphics 
 are dated now, however for the time they were quality and I'm not going to rate them down to ruin 
 this game.
  
  This game is amazing value. $9.95 now and will fit on pretty much every computer.
  
  Though 
 challenging and complicated and a little far out (but the reality is it's shockingly true) this 
 game is amazing, an underachieving masterpiece that combines everything you love about FPS and 
 a little more originality of gaming styles which are used in games today. 
  
  To put it simply, the greatest game I've ever played. The greatest game ever. Buy it. Now.
  
 
  :' ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarface67898
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  this a very very good game it had everything a game needed back in 2000 it it has an easy learning 
 curve so it wont be that hard to play
  even though a got it back in 2002 i still play it on a regular basis it has great graphics great 
 sound and music and and has an award winning storyline and i wouldnt give it less than a 10 but 
 the 2 game messed up the whole deus ex saga they should of sticked with just making one, wich they 
 would remake this game with current graphics so go buy it right now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Majjinbuuya
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 12, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex is not a simple run and gun first person shooter. It combines the gameplay of a fps with 
 rpg elements such as an experience system, the capability to upgrade weapons, and a way to add 
 new abilities. The game starts out with the bionic government agent J. C. Denton who fights all 
 types of terrorists.
  As soon as the first mission starts it becomes apparent that though in the future all the guns 
 are horribly inaccurate. Even just five feet away from an opponent it will take five shots to kill 
 anyonetwo to hit the enemy and the other three to go way off. Terrible accuracy, a very slow running 
 speed, the constant lack of ammo, and only a few bullets in each clip force the player to rely 
 on stealth and melee.
  Many of the games weaknesses can be overcome later in the game with the new abilities the main 
 character can learn. Augmentations give J. C. Denton new abilities like running faster or becoming 
 stronger, but since they can only be used by pressing the F buttons on and off and they use energy, 
 much of the abilities become useless. Almost all the weapons can be silenced or upgraded in accuracy, 
 clip size, or recoil reduction. In addition, experience points can be gained by finding secret 
 areas or advancing in the story. When the player gains enough experience points, he can then upgrade 
 Dentons weapon skills or other skills such as lock picking, swimming, or computers.
  The graphics did not age well but in game music and voice acting make up for this loss. Though 
 the voice acting can be good at times, some of the minor roles make me wonder if they read their 
 lines poorly on purpose.
  The main story never truly has a surprise twist as everything is hinted at least twice before anything 
 happens. Much of the story is slow moving but there is a lot of written text that can be read in 
 documents lying around each level.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samisaround
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex is one of the coolest games I know. Many say that its graphics is not upto the mark. But 
 I say that it has graphics enough. Anyway, to compensate for that, it has brilliant and addictive 
 gameplay.
  
  One of the most remarkable and noteworthy point about it is that you can adopt any one signature 
 styles and finish the game, and have a whole new experience the next time you play it. You could 
 be a daring assaulter, a streetfighting shotgun handler, a sly stealthy knife and crossbow specialist, 
 a heavy fragging rocketeer, or a silent sniper in the dark. In fact, you can complete the game 
 without killing a single enemy! (Except maybe one)
  Another aspect: you can get from one point to another in more ways than one. For example, in a 
 building and you may have three options: go by the hallway, the lockpicked doorway, the ventilation, 
 or even the drainage.
  
  I give the best story award to this game. The script is unbelievably good. Maybe a bit too fictionally 
 framed. But then again, doesn't the game come in that category? The music and sound effects are 
 fine. That's rounds up everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_ranch
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  For me, this is old-school game, because if i will take this game and going to play i just cannot 
 stop. This was my first FPS game what i bought. Missions are just great and guns for developed 
 year are fantastic. Graphic is excellent and this is greatest sci-fi game ever made.
  
  Deus Ex is and will be greatest sci-fi action game for me!
  Deus Ex is and will be greatest sci-fi 
 action game for me!
  Deus Ex is and will be greatest sci-fi action game for me!
  Deus Ex is and will be greatest sci-fi action game for me!
  Deus Ex is and will be greatest sci-fi 
 action game for me!
  Deus Ex is and will be greatest sci-fi action game for me!
  Deus Ex is and will be greatest sci-fi action game for me!
  Deus Ex is and will be greatest sci-fi 
 action game for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphim591
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex is a game that will never be forgotten by those that have played it.
  It came out in an age, where gameplay actually mattered, and a well written story could still be 
 appreciated.
  
  And so, I'll write my own story about this shiny jewel of the past, that has been underrated by 
 so many, that it breaks my heart.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  
  A game can be great if it has this score alone. Everything else can be improved over time, by patches 
 and mods, and so on.
  But gameplay - this is something that was made by the developers, and a patch isn't going to change 
 the core of the game.
  
  And in this case, at it's release, a revolutionary and amazingly pleasurable game.
  
  It's 
 easy to dismiss this game now, with all those shooters and rpg-s out there. But I'm not going to 
 tell you that you should buy this game. Instead I'm going to tell you, what you missed out on by 
 not doing so back in 2000.
  
  Game spins around a young man, bio-engineered to serve as a special police-force operative in a 
 post-modern world, where crime is rampant and corporations rule the world.
  You are different than anyone else, because you are stronger in every way than your average counterparts. 
 You start the game working with your brother, the first bio-unit in the anti-terrorist organization 
 called UNATCO.
  
  And as the game progresses, you are treated to literally countless sources of information. You 
 see papers on the ground, computers full of emails and public announcements for you to read. All 
 that gives you a good idea of the world you inhabit.
  As you keep on playing, doing missions, some optional - some not. You get stronger and better at 
 what you do. But not only that. You start learning things that will make you ponder and really 
 think.
  
  The storyline is so well done, that by the end of the game, you'll be asking yourself: "What just 
 happened?".
  You may think that yeah yeah, a fantasy setting with a fantasy story - who cares. 
  
  Well 
 I'm sure you will, because this story isn't fantasy. Atleast not a far-fetched one.
  
  Find out yourself.
  
  Graphics - 8
  
  The game is old, and really starting to look rather 
 bad. At-least compared to the other games out there now.
  But when it came out - it looked great. I remember not even being able to max the settings because 
 my PC couldn't handle it.
  
  The graphics serve their purpose, because every detail that is put in the game, in any element, 
 is only there for the sole reason of keeping you satisfied, so that you can enjoy the story and 
 the gameplay which are the true highlights of this game.
  
  Sound - 9
  
  Is it just me? I love the sound this game offers. It's a weird futuristic techno based music, which 
 fits in so well with this game (and I'm a metal-head) . And really it gives the game depth.
  Many games throw in great soundtracks for awesome backings, but great music alone doesn't help 
 the game. It needs to fit - and it does here.
  
  Value - 9
  
  You can get this game for next to nothing now, and for the amount of gameplay it offers. Well... 
 there's ton.
  
  The game is long. Like really, really long. I'm not sure even how many hours it will take you to 
 make it through the first time, but it won't be done in one sleepless night. Actually, I doubt 
 you could finish this in a week, even with heavy playing.
  
  Different difficulty settings, different styles of play and tons of quests to solve or do differently. 
 There really is so much to replay. 
  
  Tilt - 9
  
  A classic. A game that I'll always remember with a kind word. I miss such great gameplay in today's 
 shooters and rpg-s. It's just not there with all those games.
  It's like Deus Ex sucked dry the well of innovation, and all the other games are trying to fill 
 their buckets with rainwater.
  
  If you can get your hands on this game, do so. Ignore the dated look - and instead - immerse yourself 
 in a beautiful storyline and prepare for a similarly bleak future in real life.
  
  Ignore Deus Ex II, that game doesn't even come close to the original, and is nothing but a disgrace 
 to the name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lizard_1
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 24, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  This game may be old, but after playing Battlefield 2, Oblivian and other games, today, I'm returning 
 to this classic!
  
  Yes, today, I am going to play Deus Ex for the hell of it... I remember it used to lag on my Voodoo 
 3500 at top graphics, but now I got a Radeon X700 AGP pro. After I beat the game again, I'll install 
 Deus Ex: Invisible War! But I really would like a remake of Deus Ex, using the Unreal Engine 3 
 ^_^ When it comes out...
  
  
  
  ----------- --------------- --------------------- ----------------- ---------------- ----------------
 
  
  Oh, and if you connect Deus Ex with Invisible War, (SPOILERS) go to the genetics lab in Deus Ex 
 one where JC Denton, Paul Denton were born. You'll notice that there's still a subject in one of 
 the tanks named Alex Denton which is the main character in Deus Ex: Invisible War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DKAssasinIndy
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 24, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  System Shock, Thief, Quake...
  What do you like? Pherhaps you like from anything a litlle, just like me. When we talk about Deus 
 Ex, we must go deep into the gamer's history. The times, when the visual entertaiment was not enough, 
 but the games were made for gamer's.
  The world is not a safe place to live. The NSF, terrorist group threatens the life and the cure 
 to the most dangerous and most modern disease, the new plague - The Gray Death. So were formed 
 the UNATCO, the antiterrorist organization. Looks like simple story of good and evil elements. 
 But how long does it lasts? Let say agent JC Denton will have to find a truth in that. You are 
 JC, you will be in centre of atomic intrigues, in centre of nanotechnologies, augumented agent, 
 who can laugh even for a picture (that does not mean he can't make jokes!) .
  So, are you ready. Just be yourself - use minimal force, or clean out all this mess. Be a hacker 
 or a spy. Enjoy the strong story and experience alternatives in the end.
  The game itself is easy to handle, intuitive. Because the times past, the Unreal Engine is not 
 soo cool, the graphic is very low (if you are so foolish and you expect Next-gen graphics) .
  With many RPG elements you are able to swim trough the tree of auguments and upgrades, upgrade 
 your skills and abilites. You can control rifle like sniper, or you can swim like a dolphin, be 
 a medic or a demolition man. But you must choose wisely, for enemies are both malicious and cunning. 
 And you can't say who is friend or foe.
  When you say DEUS EX and DEUS EX 2, I choose Deus Ex. It is older, but like I say, the game has 
 got a soul. You will be eaten by the story, chewed and spitted out. And of course the Unreal Engine 
 is easy to modificate so....
  Summary: A good old-school game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowshoe
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2006 2:04 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex is an excellent action/adventure game. When I initially played this on my PC, it dogged 
 something fierce secondary poor hardware. I revisited the game later after an upgrade. I very much 
 enjoyed the second crack at it. This game is a futuristic, sci-fi, conspiracy theory style game. 
 After learning the ropes you play a biomechanical agent fighting crime. There are always several 
 options to complete tasks, the direct approach by shooting up, or stealthily coming through a back 
 door. You gain skill levels as you move through the game, and also are given choices to upgrade 
 your body. bionic eyes, chemical/toxic resistant ability, extra senses, etc. I found the story 
 captivating, the music accentuated the game play, and even the dialogue & cut scenes help fill 
 in the story. I thoroughly enjoyed this game, and whet my appetite for the sequel. Thumbs up in 
 all regards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UmaSama
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 3, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  One of my all time fovourites, I loved the character skill advancement system wich allowed me to 
 personalize JC the way I wanted, meaning that despise being oblige to use the same protagonist 
 every time I played the game I was able to use several different characters based on their skills.
 
  Good Story, great environment, great graphics, good sound.
  Not to short nor long, just the righy lenght for this game, when I finished it I didn't felt like 
 the game needed to be shorter nor longer.
  I really loved the option of changing the course of the game based on the descicions I made in 
 some points of the game such as the final when based upon my choice I was able to see three different 
 finals for the game.
  Really one of the best games I've played so far, remember the days when I played it makes me wish 
 there were a new version of this classic besides the Deus ex Invisible War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanderlust_85
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a game which really changed the way i looked at first person shooter games.. its one of 
 those game which sets standards for other to follow. what else can be said about the game but a 
 word to describe it... AMAZING.
  i really never gat bored of playing this game again and again. it has a lengthy but an entertaining 
 gameplay and perhaps this is my first game i played which has three altenate endings. This game 
 can be played the way the gamer wants to play it. one can use stealth thechniques... or more as 
 u call it "hands on approach."its all upon the player to decide whether to blast the skull with 
 the shotgun... or take down with a sniper or just blast the way out with the RPG rocket launcher.
 
  the one thing about the game that fascinated me a lot is the various upgrades... coz JC as he 
 is a called is more of a robocop... but enhanced version lol. lets put all that aside but one of 
 my all time favourites in this game has been the nano tech sword ... one slash through an opponent 
 feels like hot knife through butter.
  so the bottom line is if u want a change in first person shooter game then dues ex is sure a game 
 with a twists.. and i bet the complicated storyline is exciting..
  HAPPY PLAYING!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffSteel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 25, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  First, lets start with the basics. Deus Ex is a first person shooter that adds in elements of 
 role playing games. The whole game is played from a typical first person prospective. Youll interact 
 with objects like switches and doors, and often times this means blowing the bejesus out of the 
 various foes that stand in your way using a wide variety of killing implementations. Your arsenal 
 can include various pistols, knives, swords, shotguns, machine guns, flamethrowers, missile launchers, 
 and more (i. e. standard fare for fps's) . The action here isnt up to par with stuff like Half-Life 
 2 or anything made fairly recently, but its satisfying in and of itself. If Dues Ex were your standard 
 fps, then it wouldnt be anything terribly special. Fortunately, Deus Ex so very much more than 
 your average fodder.
  
  Deus Exs story is one of the best out there for any game, period. You play as a special agent 
 who answers to the name of JC Denton. Denton is basically an unemotional badass who has been enhanced 
 by nanotechnology into a super soldier with amazing super human capabilities. He starts off working 
 for the United Nations Anti-Terrorist Coalition (UNATCO) , fighting for freedom against the worldwide 
 terrorist threat. However as a conspiracy for world domination is unveiled, JC will have to make 
 some hard choices, which will invariably lead to lots of killing and damaging of property. The 
 story involves lots of conversations with other characters, which will often occur in extended 
 dialogues during which the camera shifts to a cinematic third person prospective. Usually youll 
 be given dialogue options, which may be insignificant, or may alter the plot of the game. What 
 is rather impressive in Deus Ex is that your choices and actions have a real impact on the story. 
 An example is, say, some secondary character is getting on your nerves. Should you kill him and 
 loot his corpse? Or maybe you should resist the dark side and let him live. If you kill him, he 
 is gone from the story for good, but if you spare him, he may show up again later in the story. 
 There are usually advantages to both courses of action, so youll have to weigh your options. The 
 innumerable amount of plot branches like this means that you can quite literally have a different 
 experience each time you play through the game. Personally every time I play Deus Ex I discover 
 a plot moment I had never seen before, and I have played this game a lot, believe me! As far as 
 the cast of characters goes, the roster is full of memorable wackos, diabolical villains, sarcastic 
 jerks, goody-two-shoes, and everything in between. The voice acting is very well done, and the 
 characters even have some limited lip synching (a novel concept back when it Deus Ex was made, 
 me thinks) .
  
  Deus Ex really shines in how the role-playing elements are introduced into the game. JC is the 
 apex of the nanotech project, meaning he can gain superpowers by finding modules that encode for 
 special abilities. You only have so many slots available to upgrade with said powers, and there 
 a far more abilities than there are slots to put them in. What you, the player, will have to do 
 therefore is make some choices. Will you bulk JC up into an invincible killing machine, or refine 
 him into an invisible shadow able to infiltrate anything? Is using up a slot now worth while, or 
 should you save it for a more useful aug (the games term for said abilities) ? Further options 
 stem from the skills JC can master over the course of the game. These include weapon proficiencies, 
 swimming, hacking, and other useful abilities. Again, tailor them to suite how you want to play 
 the game.
  
  The way you play the game can be varied, because all the problems, tasks, levels, and situations 
 have multiple ways through which you can resolve and get conquer them. By options, I mean more 
 than going through doors A or B. Lets say you need to cross an enemy infested courtyard. You can 
 obviously try to run out and gun them all down. Or, if you installed the cloaking aug (or have 
 some thermoptic camo) , you can go invisible and try to sneak past all the enemies. Or perhaps you 
 upgraded you jumping ability, in which case you could just jump from roof top to roof top to avoid 
 the area altogether. The game is full of such choices, and not in a way that forces you to choose 
 some predetermined strategy early on that youd have to stick with forever. You will always be 
 free to try a different strategy if what your doing doesnt seem to work.
  
  The bottom line is that Dues Ex is at its core a fairly average first person shooter with traits 
 that can sometimes cause some consternation (namely bland sound effects, somewhat clunky combat, 
 and retarded AI) , but ends up being more than the sum of its parts. Deus Ex features an amazing 
 story, excellent characters, an immersive world, and adaptable game play that will easily overshadow 
 any minor flaws the game may have. Whats more important though, is that long after the fun in 
 other games is gone, Deus Ex will STILL be enjoyable no matter how many times you play through 
 it. If you want to try something a little different, and a lotta fun, then you owe it to yourself 
 to give this masterfully made cult classic a try (if you can get your hands on a copy, that is) .
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex is foremost a unique game in its field. It is really quite unlike any other game I have 
 ever played. It shares territory with titles such as Half-Life and Tomb Raider, but also some role-playing 
 games as well. It seems to have carved out or invented its personal little niche in the game market, 
 by mixing two normally contrasting game essentials. It manages to successfully combine puzzle, 
 shooting and RPG elements to create a really exceptional atmosphere. While it has several mediocre 
 faults which will sometimes make you cringe, it mostly it's an extremely fun and thought-provoking 
 game, inspired by both conspiracy theories and philosophy.
  
  The storyline is based in the near future, and revolves around nano-augmented (basically this means 
 technologically improved) Agent J. C. Denton, who works for the United Nations Anti-Terrorist Coalition 
 (UNATCO) , based out of Liberty Island, New York. As is normal, the world of the future is not a 
 safe place, and UNATCO must protect the citizens of the earth from various terrorist plots and 
 evil denizens. Primarily, in the first mission, you must regain control of the Statue of Liberty, 
 which has been seized by an organisation known as the NSF (National Secessionist Forces) . The plot 
 is far to complex to go into detail, and it would also spoil the game, but the basic premise is 
 that Denton must solve problems relating to deadly viruses (which has the lovely sounding name 
 Grey Death) , corrupt governments and world domination attempts. The plot is really the best aspect 
 of Deus Ex, as without it, it would not have anywhere near the same novelty value. The game is 
 extremely long, taking often upwards of twenty hours to complete, and if you were to go hunting 
 for all the many hidden locations it will take even longer. Luckily, there are only a few dull 
 moments during this, as you will be visiting New York, Hong Kong and Paris on the globe-hopping 
 crusade. It can however become a bit annoying when you must retrace your steps several times in 
 order to return to previous locations in each city. During this epic journey Denton talks to literally 
 dozens and dozens of other characters, all of whom have a great array of responses, and can be 
 conversed with many times. However, this leads me to probably largest fault of Deus Ex: the character 
 voices.
  
  Although every character talks a great deal, and the scripts themselves are good, the voice acting 
 is frankly quite appalling. Absolutely no characters (with the possible exception of arch villain 
 Bob Page) seem to have any emotions in their voice at all, and instead inhabit a world where emotions 
 have seemingly been destroyed, or at least forgotten about. Denton and his brother Paul both speak 
 like they have walked out of the Terminator films as reincarnations of Arnold Schwarzenegger. Even 
 when people are hurt, they shout or scream only in a half-hearted manner. Listening to all of these 
 emotionless and blunt conversations can sometimes get a bit tiresome; although you will often be 
 too interested in the subject they are discussing to notice this. On top of this, the musical score 
 is also rather dull, and mostly sounds very similar and unremarkable, apart from the title theme. 
 However, general sound effects and ambient sounds are quite good.
  
  Thankfully, gameplay itself is consistently solid throughout. It is theoretically possible to get 
 through the entire game without killing anyone (save from one or two characters) , as you are given 
 a wide range of both lethal and non-lethal weapons with which to take on enemies. However this 
 can get extremely difficult (as you will be frequently running out of ammunition) and furthermore, 
 you are given no incentive to do so. It is much easier (and often all the more fun) to go in with 
 all guns blazing, although this may not always be the best way to handle a given situation. Shooting 
 and targeting is relatively easy, although it can be tricky earlier in the game. Furthermore, you 
 cannot reload manually and must instead wait until you finish the entire clip before automatically 
 reloading. Graphically, the game isn't much to look at today, but that just gives it the "classic" 
 feel.
  
  A nice touch is to give Denton the ability to learn skills such as lock-picking, hacking computers, 
 swimming and making aiming easier, through the reward of skill points, which are earned through 
 achieving goals or exploring the maps. This can make your own version of Denton able to complete 
 certain tasks much easier. At first, this system seems overcomplicated, and to be frank it often 
 is, and could have been implemented more simply. The gameplay also has several nice problem-solving 
 virtues, and situations can be resolved through a number of ways. The game makes use of a detailed 
 inventory menu, from which you can see objects picked up, check health and review known information 
 and objectives. Also, you handling of situations will influence other characters views and opinions 
 of you, subtly changing the storyline. Due to this, it is unlikely you will ever replay exactly 
 the same story.
  
  Deus Ex is simply different from anything else, and stands out on its own plinth. It is a welcome 
 change from the more stereotypical action adventure, and blends many different elements almost 
 seamlessly together. Although it does have some faults, I still highly recommend it, as everyone 
 should be able to overlook the abominable sound, and still really enjoy this game, in all its "cyberpunk" 
 glory. Its true value lies in the morality and conspiracy themes the story focuses upon, which 
 stimulate both the mind and psyche. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaddyW
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  When i first bought the game, i didn't even unwrap it! I saw it at a friends house, and wasn't 
 that suprised. Just a normal First Person Shooter with a strange looking interface... after a couple 
 of years... i unwrapped it...
  
  When there was a change in my life... i played this game in the summer vacation and couldn't get 
 off it. The story was just freaking cool and the atmosphere is perfect. On off the first game i 
 know, where the storyline depends on the players decisions and dialogs - awesome!
  
  If you like conspiracies and some science fiction (nano technology, super hero) and some role-play 
 elements... go and get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samrulez91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  When I first got Deus Ex, I didn't think much of it, but when I played it properly, wow! It surprised 
 me a lot. This has got one of the most interactive games ever as you can interact with just about 
 anything. This storyline, I thought, was very imaginative and good. The story's depth is amazing 
 and all the characters have some involvement somehow.
  
  The graphics were pretty good at the time of release but today they are classed as average. The 
 variety of tools and weapons are very good and the varieties of ammo is a rare sight these days. 
 The number of mods for this game is huge. Although the mods aren't the easiest and trouble-free 
 to get to work, they are very good and varied.
  
  The design of the levels are very good and varied. The use of the Unreal engine for this game made 
 it a true classic. The multi-player is very good and thrilling. Use of mods and cheats on-line, 
 in my opinion, makes it an instant multi-player classic. Although nothing much happens multi-player 
 wise these days for this game. Overall, this game is outstanding and it's better than it sequel, 
 which was something of a disappointment for fans of Deus Ex but never the less still good. If you 
 like a truly interactive game and FPS games, you should buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex is far the best game ever very close to Half-Life and Doom. Why?
  Simple, Deus Ex take place in the future when the World will fall to the hands of the bad guys.
 
  
  You play JC Denton, A UNATCO Agent that most stop the NSF from taking the cure to stop the Gray 
 Death. But later on you discover that the real bad guys are the ones who is controling the goverment 
 which are the Iluminuti.
  
  You join the Terrorits to stop the bad guys. But if you paid attencion to the you will see that 
 this game is based from your reality that the goverment and elite companies will play our lives 
 like toys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  The graphics were horrid. The characters were goofy looking and the voice acting was stiff... even 
 for its time. The game's soundtrack did not set the tone of the game well nor did it mix well with 
 certain situations encountered in the game.
  
  I'm not so sure what it is with this game but I found myself coming back to it. After further research 
 over reasons why I found myself playing the game frequently, I realized that the game made a very 
 good twist on what other games have a hard time implementing:
  
  The Power of Choice
  
  Deus Ex can be easily dismissed as a very crappy game if you do not play for more than 30 minutes. 
 As you play, you realize that every single choice makes an impact on the story and the way you 
 play the game. For instance, you'll collect "augmentations" that allow you to be slightly more 
 bulletproof or slighly more radiation resistant etc and that will impact how you will reach particular 
 areas in the game. In some cases, you change the course of the story simply because you have opted 
 to team with a particular faction. You realize that as you progress in the story, characters start 
 to remember what you've done and will question your motives. Despite the garbage graphics, you 
 feel that the characters are conscious and deep and not just some NPC who will just give you some 
 short factoid or voiceover the exact same conversation repeatedly. In some situations, you can 
 do one of the following when approaching your typical night club filled with baddies:
  
  1. Shmooze your way into the club
  2. Find a secret way in
  3. Mow down the bouncers with you 
 plasma rifle and go out in a blaze of glory.
  
  ... or possibly more...
  
  What is really interesting is how the game actually gives you more choices in approaching dangerous 
 situations. You find out that you'll have more choices than you anticipate. Sooner or later, you'll 
 realize how this game was cleverly designed. As you progress through the game, you will be given 
 upgrades for JC Denton (main character) to run faster, jump higher, hack computers, etc. What makes 
 this game even more interesting is how the levels were so well designed that it can even accommodate 
 some of the most lopsided characters you can create. Even if JC Denton was a Computer Ace Hacker 
 and sucked at everything else, there would still be a way to get passed 50 guards without shooting 
 a single soul. The game tries to be open-ended. So, if all you can do is jump really high, there 
 is a place for your character in the game and it doesn't stop there. The game even goes as far 
 as upgrading your rifles and other assault weapons. So, if your character is based on total weaponry, 
 you still have a choice over what kind of killing machine he'll be. A sniper? Or A Rambo-type dude? 
 
  
  Although very satisfying, an open-ended approach has its limitations. For one, the story can be 
 more or less convoluted depending on the player's hunger for information. The more information 
 you know, the deeper the game gets and the harder the decisions. In addition, the level designs 
 would feel somewhat less plausible just so that it can cover any configuration of JC Denton's upgrades. 
 For example, why would a club have direct access to a mainframe from some random computer sitting 
 around near a bar? Go figure. In the famous words of Neo "the problem is choice".
  
  Deus Ex, while not completely original, is one of the most refined games I have played that integrated 
 RPG with FPS. The interface is appealing and very easy to use and is purposeful making me wonder 
 if two different teams made the game. 
  
  Either way, Deus Ex (despite its ugliness) brings alot to the table. If you can stomach some funky 
 dialogue and less original weapons, you'll find a very playable gem that is probably worth keeping.
 
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebbderelict
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  This game has some of the highest replay value for me on my PC. I've played through it multiple 
 times, and have not yet played it without finding new secrets, or uncovering new ways to approach 
 a mission. It's a fantastic combination of a FPS and stealth gaming. There's lots of engrossing 
 levels with multiple ways to complete. You can go in guns blazing, and many a guns you have to 
 choose from. Shotguns, automatic rifles, sniper rifles, RPG's, flamethrowers and more.
  Or take the stealthy, and often non-lethal approach, with weapons like the dart gun, riot baton, 
 and electric prod.
  In addition to your arsenal, you have bio-mechanical upgrades you can plug in, including cloaking 
 technology, upgraded speed, strength, vision, and more.
  You've got your weapons, you've got your mods, AND you've got upgradable skills! Lock picking, 
 computer hacking, marksmanship, melee fighting, AND MORE!
  As you can see, "AND MORE!" is a common theme with this game. It just doesn't disappoint.
  Since 
 you have a selection of both weapons and mods that's larger then you can take at any one time, 
 and an unfathomable amount of combinations as to which skills you want to focus on, this also adds 
 to the re-playability.
  On top of all the gadgets, and choice in mission strategy, the story line is a really good, with 
 lots of factions and characters to keep track of. The benefits of all these groups is apparent 
 in the end, when you get to decide which group is going to win, opening up a multiple ending scenario, 
 ALSO adding re-playability. I even found the voice acting (for the most part) really well done.
 
  Do yourself a favour, and play this game. It's few years old now, but still well worth the experience.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MessiahKnot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  The feeling I got when I first loaded up Deus Ex is one that I have rarely felt. It was something 
 akin to disbelief, a sense of incomprehension on a scale I had never encountered. It was clear 
 to me from the very beginning that this game was going to be entirely above and beyond my greatest 
 expectations, and Im pleased to tell you my initial feeling is entirely confirmed.
  
  The aspect of the game that hit me most was that it transcended the mould of FPS in such an accomplished 
 way. Previous to DE, I had a very rigid concept of what a shooter could be. The genre itself seemed 
 to have stalled, perhaps reaching its self imposed limitations. The vast pool of FPSs was filled 
 with numberless clones that seemed to have only the smallest difference between them. DE totally 
 eliminated these boundaries. It redefined what a FPS could be. It seemed to be a strange amalgamation 
 of RPG elements and generic shooting, but done in such a clever way that it felt like a natural 
 progression. It was a breath of fresh air. It smoothly incorporated features that were quite alien 
 to the genre: intricate branching story, deep character interaction, multiple endings, side quests, 
 upgradeable abilities, alterable character skills, item inventory. And the mere notion of being 
 able to complete a shooting game without actually shooting anyone was totally unfathomable.
  
  The game itself, as you may already have determined, is wondrous. The player has the ability 
 to craft their character into whatever they want, having control over what skills they wish to 
 upgrade and weapons they are to specialize with. You also have the ability to add augmentations 
 to your body which allow you to perform inhuman actions. This adds a whole level of dimension to 
 the game. The environments themselves are designed so that there is always an alternative route 
 the player can take. This is good for replay value as the consequences of following a particular 
 path can change the course of game. The levels are also varied and extensive and are great fun 
 to explore. The shooting elements, characters, interaction and general game ambience is perfect. 
 The other exceptional thing about the game is the story. It is simply top notch, worthy of a novel 
 or movie. The writers have created a whole alternative future. Conspiracies, twist and turns, lies, 
 deceit  its all there. 
  
  The sound and graphics were at the time of release quite top notch. The game has full voice acting 
 all the way through, and believe me there is a lot of it! The music is also very memorable too, 
 and youll find yourself humming many of the games tunes without knowing. The graphics are by todays 
 standards quite dated, but still terribly playable, Plus, it would be a travesty to overlook the 
 game on such superficial account.
  
  To sum up, Deus Ex can justly be labeled a classic game. It was a pinnacle in my gaming experience, 
 and one that will always hold a place in my heart. Buy this game, it will not disappoint.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've ever played (and I played lots) , everything about this game 
 is excellent.
  
  I think I should mention I finished this game 4 times and my friends that have played it also finished 
 it several times. It's just too extraordinary that you'll want to play it again and again and again...
 
  
  - The graphics are superb even now, even though it's not "the latest thing".
  - The music is wonderfull, you can't really ask for more.
  - The storyline is impressive and 
 the characters fit perfectly in the game and the story itself.
  
  The game feels very realistic and is very complex. If you haven't played it yet then I highly recommend 
 that you do, as soon as possible.
  
  PS: The only thing I can blame is that it has a few bugs, I remember finding 4 or 5 but remember 
 only 3 now. I'm sure that if I'd play it again I'd remember and find them again. Oh well, the 3 
 that I do remember let you max out your skills so I thought they're worth mentioning. They have 
 no real impact on the game, unless you exploit them - don't you'll ruin the experience.
  
  In short: BUY this game and PLAY it NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  As the player in Deus Ex you assume the role of JC Denton, a new recruit in the elite anti-terrorist 
 organization UNATCO, or United Nations Anti-Terrorist Coalition. Crime, terrorism, and disease 
 are all out of control, ravaging the Earth's population quicker than the agencies of government 
 can react to them. One disease in particular, called the Grey Death, is spreading like wildfire 
 across all major cities, causing people very slow and extremely painful demises. At the beginning 
 of the adventure, the world's most dominant terrorist organization, the NSF or National Secessionist 
 Forces, have intercepted and stolen a government shipment of Ambrosia, the only substance known 
 to cure the Grey Death. In this future the government controls the distribution of Ambrosia, a 
 product manufactured by the U. S. corporation VersaLife. With limited availability and extreme value, 
 the origins of Ambrosia are unknown, but it is believed to be a combination of substances so rare 
 that only minute amounts of the vaccine can be produced. Conspiracy theories, rumors of government 
 involvement in the creation of the Grey Death, and the loyalty and ties of certain UNATCO personnel 
 are all part of a layered storyline that unfolds at the player's discretion based on his or her 
 involvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the games that one must experience in his/her gaming "career". Sort of like Warcraft 
 or C7C series games. Everyone of us gamers played those games sometime in his/her life. This game 
 should be included too.
  This review comes many years after the game was released. Better late than never I say. When I 
 first played the game back in 2001, I was overwhelmed by it's complexity for an action game. I 
 then realized there is much more than meets the eye in this game. OK, the graphics were not state 
 of the art, not even for that period of time, but heck with this plot and engrossing story I really 
 care little for jaw-dropping visuals and focused on the plot and characters.
  In this game, you play the role of a "government" special agent. Not very sure if government is 
 the correct word but something similar. You have a human form, *but* you actually have augmentation 
 abilities meaning that you can boost your self up and upgrade yourself almost in every aspect of 
 RPG's... THIS is the punch line of this game. This gives the game it's superb replay value. I have 
 been through this game, 7 times already. While playing the game you get missions (quests if you 
 like) and for completing them you get XP. This is what gives you the ability to augment yourself. 
 You can augment yourself bionically making you super strong or super sneaky, in weapon mastery 
 making you a silent & deadly sharp shooter or mayhem invoker, enviormental survivability that allows 
 you to plow through toxins and other hazards as if you were night-swimming etc... 
  The game's length is just right, not too long and not too short. Like a true special agent, you 
 get the benefit of traveling around the world, Paris, NY, Hong Kong, Germany... really neat stuff. 
 The fact that you always change your environment diminishes any possible moment of boredom in the 
 game. If you have played System Shock 2, you will see some familiar things here as well, like the 
 inventory slots, and the way you focus on world objects surrounding them in a box frame, not really 
 as deep RPG as SS2 but the action here rocks..!
  I personally love the silence of the kill, so I always master myself in rifle, so I could take 
 out foes from afar hopefully not alerting nearby enemies. I tried playing the game when my main 
 speciality was heavy weaponry but that did not really take me too far, as heavy weapons do come 
 later in the game. 
  I will not extend my talk about graphics, as you an understand graphics are not my top interest 
 in games. However do not expect graphics like Far-Cry or F. E. A. R in this game.
  Sound, great in my opinion right from the starting theme..! I love the music in the starting theme, 
 reminds me of movie-music. Sound effects are also good, especially the rifle shot , hehe ..!
  Story & plot, the game's best attribute, period. 
  Oh, and did I mention that you have mutilple 
 ways to end the game...? You have 3 or 4 options to end it, each one dramatically different than 
 the other. The game ends in any one of them but their meaning and significance is totally different...
 
  This game leaves you wishing for more. More of what you have just conquered. I was a bit sad when 
 it was over, I really wished there was more to go through. 
  Go ahead and play this game if you had not done so still. It is totally worth your precious gaming 
 time.
  
  Happy gaming and bless you all.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CandabraxisAU
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  This really is a great game.
  
  The modd, the story, the music and the Cyberpunk feel just blows all player away.
  
  What truly 
 is a good mix of FPS and RPG is worth any inquisitive player picking up and playing. Skills amplify 
 this must play game, so characters can develop skills from lockpicking, to hacking to weapon proficiencies.
 
  
  The variety in the story is immense resulting in different aspects on missions, you can side with 
 the law or the rebels and create completley alternative results.
  
  In addition the inclusion of Cybernetic enhancements, such as regeneration, radiation protection, 
 strength improvements, missile defence system can be made to your almost cyborg like body. Which 
 adds to the re-playability.
  
  Not to mention there is atleast a week of solid playing for the inner geek as the game is so large.
 
  
  if i was Anthony Robbins, I would say Get the EDGE or Get your PERSONAL POWER. Play the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordGoo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  I wasn't sure I made a good deal when I picked this off the shelf, but I quickly found myself delighted 
 with it's packed Single player game-play. 
  
  There are 3 Main factions in the game, Majestic 12, the Illuminati, and a Rouge group who run around 
 Hong Kong wielding swords called the Triads, and want to see the fall of the Global Information 
 Network!
  
  There where loads of exciting areas to explore. And you can interact with virtually everything 
 and everyone in the game. If you see a house plant you can mess with it, if there is a door, it 
 can be picked or blown up in most cases.
  
  I hope I'm not giving up to much but at one point you get to explore a 747... and I have always 
 wanted to get on one of those ...
  
  The ending is dynamic, and there is no real way to do the wrong thing in this game. If you can 
 survive it, you can do it in this game. There are only a couple places where you must ensure the 
 safety of somone Other then yourself.
  
  My favorite thing in the game had to be hacking all the computers. I never bothered finding a log 
 in unless it was my account and I thought it was best to read the email.
  
  My favorate place had to be the Submarine Base ... Unlocking the sea doors and going for a swim 
 wee what a blast! 
  
  I highly recommend this game, you can get it real cheap on Game Spy's Direct to Drive, or have 
 it shipped from right here on the left through EB Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion85
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  When playing Deus Ex for the first time I was a little confused. Somehow this game was not the 
 standard FPS that I expected and the graphics did not impress me too much either. Nevertheless 
 after playing on a while I soon realised that this game had something special. Not only that you 
 could walk in the clubs and talk to whoever you want to but that when you are on a mission there 
 are often several ways to solve it: Head for a direct attack which will consume lots of hard to 
 get ammo and an increased risk that you might get killed or sneak upon the ennemy, do a covert 
 approach and get out before anybody realises anything. 
  
  I think the game is made rather realistic due to the amount of weapons you can carry (large weapons 
 use more space) and the fact that there is just a great story which will take you to Hong Kong, 
 Paris, NYC, and lots of other places. You also have the ability to upgrade some skills like demolition 
 or assault rifle (making the use of rifles more deadly and more accurate aiming) . Last but not 
 least you can chose between so called bio-canister upgrades to upgrade your systems (e. g. smart 
 healing, invisibility, etc.)
  
  What really impressed me was the length of the game and the variety of the missions, which will 
 not turn out to be "mission failed, start again" but result in some people now trying to kill you 
 or getting less money for the job. Next to the side quests giving additional money it helps to 
 search every map for hidden corners ( e. g. break into apartements which turn out to be homes of 
 weapon dealers with lots of weapons and ammo) or hacking into terminals to find additional stuff. 
 I must have played through the campaign at least 10 times and I still find some new things (like 
 weapon upgrades) occasionaly. 
  
  If you are looking for a game with a long complex story, then do not miss this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KENTsim
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most hardest games to explain. You're an agent named JC Denton that is working 
 for a cop group which is UNATCO on the Liberty Island. Beneath the cop group under the Liberty 
 Island base is the true secret organization that has been plotting against everything and everyone. 
 This secret organization is called MJ12. Majestic 12 is part of an Augmentation Biotech research 
 company owned and operated by the government officials. They build from Bio-Weaponry to standard 
 assault weapons like Assault Rifles. The year is around 2050 and many people around the world, especially 
 in New York have been homeless. Mostly just Bums or hookers out there. Later on in the game you'll 
 find yourself feeling more stronger with more Bio-Weapons that are enhanced in your body and upgraded 
 weapon modifications to your fire-arms that make the weapons very deadly. This game is an all type 
 game ranging from firefights at the beginning of the game and stealth at the middle of the game 
 with silent but nasty demolition bombing on walls. You have to be really careful throughout the 
 game 'cause if you die in anything, you'll have to start all over again. Not unless you have a game 
 saved then you can continue on where you left off. This game is filled with chalk-ful of puzzles 
 that makes the game an RPG. You have to decide choices for your survival or sacrifices for people 
 that you work with. This game is so immersive. It's a must buy RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepunisher311
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game. It has every gameplay option available, from stealth, to action, 
 to talking, and any mix of those options, and all are well done. It has an immersive setting, great 
 characters, and an amazing story full of twists and turns. It's very lengthy and does a good job 
 of letting you see your character improve over the course of the game. The only complaint I have 
 with the game is that the augmentations or powers are somewhat cumbersome to use and could have 
 been implimented better, but still, theres no other flaws. The graphics were great for their time. 
 
  
  If you haven't played this game, I highly reccomend you give it a shot. It has something for everyone. 
 It's yet another game that makes you wonder why the FPS/RPG genre is so seldom done since it produced 
 such great titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ergo2497
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  "Deus Ex" had a huge amount of hype surrounding its release. A FPS combining RPG elements, a futuristic 
 conspiracy-ridden sci-fi storyline, and a variety of gameplay options? "Cool!" shouted the gaming 
 masses, and leapt to the stores.
  
  And DX was good, but it wasn't everything it promised. For one, the so-called emergent gameplay 
 never, um, emerged. The game does give you options as to how to play it: you choose to level up 
 certain stats over others, you choose which augmentations to install as opposed to which not to, 
 and every level has a couple of ways to accomplish its objective. However, the game doesn't really 
 force its protagonist JC Denton to make any major plot-altering decisions until the very ending, 
 where you're still being force-fed objectives. In other words, despite multiple ways to tackle 
 obstacles, DX is still a very linear shooter, with a couple of side missions tossed in.
  
  The game has further problems from there. DX allows you to use a variety of gameplay methods to 
 accomplish your tasks, but simply put, none of these are very polished. Stealth is frustratingly 
 inept, forcing a player to rely on trial and error more often than not, since enemies have radically 
 different fields of view and there is no onscreen indicator of how well-hidden you are. But going 
 all out with your guns doesn't feel all that great either, mostly due to unsatisfying weapon sounds 
 and effects. Then there's hacking and lockpicking, which are just turned into exercises in time-consumption 
 as you hold down a button and watch an animation do all the work.
  
  The graphics were dated when the game came out, and look much worse now. The soundtrack is a little 
 on the bland side, the voice acting just plain awful. But Deus Ex is still worthwhile, because 
 the designers clearly paid attention to their goal of creating an amazing plotline, then created 
 a highly detailed world to stage it in. This attention to detail is evident in everything from 
 the readable books and newspapers to the fact that you can pick up and throw virtually anything 
 in the game if you're strong enough. Furthermore, the concept of including multiple routes to achieving 
 objectives was pioneered in Deus Ex, and the original still did it best. No matter what you choose 
 to excel in, a little skill and ingenuity can always get you through. This, in the end, is what 
 makes Deus Ex a rewarding experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platinumpt
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  Here I am, reviewing a 6-year old game called Deus Ex. Hows that possible? Easy answer. I was 
 browsing some forums a couple of months ago, which actually dont have ANYTHING at all to do with 
 videogames, and I met this guy, with whom I started talking and shared the same interest I do about 
 computer games. I told him I was a big FPS fan, and he mentioned something about a game Ive never 
 heard before, called Deus Ex. He said the game was crazy, and easily one of the best he ever played. 
 I was kind of curious, as you can imagine, so I did not rest until I finally had the chance to 
 play it.
  
  Graphics:
  I wont lie to you, at first its graphics arent impressive at all, Im used to play games like 
 Quake 4, Serious Sam 2, Half Life 2, and now were talking about a game made on the year 2000. 
 But then, you see lots of different scenarios, including underground pubs, abandoned gas stations, 
 nuclear silos, laboratories and military installations of many kinds its just amazing!!! I can 
 hardly believe how they could stick all that in only one disc. The variety of scenarios compensates 
 the graphic flaws, but anyway I dont think I could expect more from a game that came out on the 
 year 2000.
  
  Gameplay/story:
  The plot is fantastic. It all seems very nave in the beginning, as you work for an anti-terrorist 
 coalition formed by the UN; but soon enough (fortunately, because this way it spices up things 
 real fast!) there are some plot twists in which you discover things that arent exactly how they 
 looked, and the villains might not be who you think they are. And it all sums up to a conspiracy 
 planned by one man to bring down the most powerful world governments. The characters script is 
 very well written, and you can interact with a very high number of them, each one with their specific 
 purpose. Some will help you, others will attack you depending on your attitude towards them, others 
 will ignore you, and others will just make you waste your time and money. Im remembering a girl 
 you meet in Hong Kong, that keeps asking you money to buy her a drink, so that she can have a good 
 time. You wont get anything in return, by the way. About gameplay itself, the character plays 
 very smoothly, you might have some trouble aiming, but thats only until you upgrade your skills 
 with weapons. The controls are also very easy to learn, and the navigation through your inventory 
 and goals/notes menu is very intuitive.
  
  Sound:
  Its not amazingly great. But Ive seen MUCH worse in 2005 games, to be honest, which is WAY more 
 unforgivable. The voice acting is good on some parts, and in others its just annoyingly cheesy. 
 JC acts like hes a robot. He speaks as he has no emotions at all, in EVERY SINGLE line of dialogue 
 since the beginning of the game until it ends. But it actually makes some sense, as were dealing 
 here with a nano-augmented clone, person or whatever, so it actually fits the entire spirit of 
 the game. However, in Hong Kong, voice acting is so terrible that it almost makes me puke. The 
 Triad leader, for instance, has a terrible accent, he doesnt sound Chinese at all. He sounds more 
 like an English-man with some sort of speaking problem. Same happens with the random individuals 
 that wander through Hong Kong. But this is just a minor detail anyway.
  
  Difficulty:
  This game is difficult until you reach some certain upgrades. There are actually many things you 
 have to think of, locked doors, for instance, are a very interesting challenge. Sometimes you spend 
 a few lockpicks or a rocket to get through a door, just to find out that theres an unlocked vent 
 somewhere outside the building that would lead you exactly to the same place without having to 
 spend any tools or ammunition at all. The same thing happens with keypads. You should leave all 
 keypad doors unopened until youre absolutely positive you explored the entire level. Sometimes 
 theres a datacube or a computer with its code where you least expect. Of course things get way 
 easier when you upgrade your lockpicking and electronic skills, easing your thinking process, and 
 facilitating your decision to overcome the obstacle. You should also train skills like Rifle, Heavy, 
 and Pistol weapons, because itll be of much use later in the game. The weapon mods are also very 
 important, mostly the accuracy and recoil modes. Much later in the game things will be incredibly 
 easy if you chose the right upgrades and the right bio augmentations. I played on the hard difficulty 
 level, and its true that I spent a lot of time playing the game, but not because of the difficulty 
 itself: its just that I wanted to explore every single detail out of this game, to make the ride 
 even more satisfying.
  
  Overall:
  This game is superb. Its incredible how it was so much more enjoyable to me than games that came 
 out last year, like Call Of Duty 2 or Quake 4 (but then again, Im a sucker for intriguing plots, 
 and a weird person at the same time) . If I were you, Id get this game as soon as possible, one 
 hel of a ride like this cant be missed.
  
  And finally: THANK YOU JAMES KERR, if it wasn't for you this game would probably still be a mistery 
 to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex is one of my favorite PC games to date. The graphics aren't the best, but the storyline 
 is excellent. You play in the future as a cop who is also a cyborg or something like that who is 
 sent to Liberty Island to investigate a terrorist attack. I can't tell much after that because 
 then I will ruin the story. Anyways, you get some basic weapons like shotguns, assualt rifles, 
 and pistols, but you also get some weapons I would never think be in a game like pepper spray. 
 You even get upgrades for your weapons. The storyline is amazingly clever. When I finally beat 
 this game, I wanted to replay it again. Anyone who sees this game should buy it because it is not 
 what I would consider a classic, but I would consider it close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pheonix0303
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  In Deus Ex you take on the role of a UNATCO counter terrorist agent investigating the Librety Island 
 terrorist attack. For the first few missions you go to the mission, finish it, come back rearm, 
 go to next mission. Though after your clone brother gets his "killswitch" activated you end up 
 betraying UNATCO and joining the NSF terrorist group. Here on you get to visit some of America, 
 China, and France aswell as Area 51. At Area 51 the game starts to let you down by introducing 
 more and more creatures like greasels: birds that walk along the ground and spit poison at you, 
 Karkians that have very high amount of health and bite you. At this point people are augmented 
 and you use plasma guns and energy swords, ect. At this stage the game loses mutch of it's gameplay 
 but for multiplayer this game is exelent, UNATCO Troops against NSF Terrorists. Graphics wise this 
 game has alot to make up for and the sets of animations (moving while on fire, death animations, 
 moving animations, climbing animations, ect are very poorly done. Overall this game is a bargin 
 for around 10 dollars and is a good game but not the best game around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MieLanme
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  As a player, I highly regard a good balance of story and gameplay. I'm sure everyone played those 
 games where it feels like watching a movie. Thankfully, Deus Ex is not like that.
  
  *spoilers ahead*
  
  The story is as follows : you're fresh UNATCO agent JC Denton, and your 
 mission is to kill terrorists. As the story goes on, you uncover that UNATCO is not quite what 
 it's meant to be, and as an added quirk, your own bro defects to the NSF. While going to look for 
 him, he tells you that UNATCO is corrupt at the core and wants you to infiltrate an UNATCO base. 
 You discover the truth, and you decide to defect too. You then uncover a big conspiracy involving 
 a group called MJ-12, and it's up to you to fight them.
  
  Anyway, the graphics are a little dated, but we can all cope with that, right? RIGHT? It's the 
 gameplay that matters, anyway. Thankfully, it's just perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abima
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  On the one hand, if this is what passes for an innovative plotline in videogames, then plotlines 
 are in a sorry state of affairs. Don't know if the following thought is a spolier or not, but be 
 aware that it might be. Anyway, guess what: there's a conspiracy between the capitalist monopolists 
 and a governmental body that's meant to protect us. Or something like that. Double crosses? Yes. 
 And how. Not very original, mind you, but the best I've found. What I wouldn't give for a really 
 REALLY original plot in a videogame! But... Deus Ex is still awesome. Very cool sets, if more repetitive 
 than I'm comfortable with. But I love the fact that I don't have to kill anyone in this game, or 
 almost anyone. The non-lethal weapons, like the shock stick and corssbow, are fun to wield. Because 
 they're so much riskier than the lethal weapons, success with them feels better. Another great 
 part of the game is the twenty-years-in-the-future setting. This is something I wish there were 
 more of in games. It works really well when combined with the sneaking around aspect of the game, 
 though I can't explain why. But like I said in my headline, I'd love some more games like this, 
 where I get to sneak around a near-future environment, evading hightech spy gadgets that go "beep." 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeusEX2012
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  FPS, RPG, ALL IN THIS GAME..... SO ..... WHAT U LOOKING? PLAY NOW! SOME STRATEGY, ACTION..... YEAH... 
 THIS GAME ........ PLAY THE GOTY EDITION....... U DONT HAVE AN IDEA HOW THIS GAME IS SUPERB
  
  Ae brasileiros..... nao se arrependeram.... utiliza a plataforma do Unreal.... a historia eh 
 emocionante e tem 3 finais!!! eh tipo um Stealth game. tem q ter inteligencia e manha para esse 
 jogo.!!! Se vc comecar e achar meio chato..... espere... jogue mais um poco... espere ate falar 
 com seu superior .. e aguarde.. mta conspiracao... mta historia envolvente... mta acao e eh claro 
 .. vc eh um agente......... aja na encolha.... so ira ganhando.. nesse jogo ultra realista..
  DEUSEX Br. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game seduced me since I first tried out its demo.
  
  If someone scratches the surface of this game, one will see it as a little more than competent 
 shooter, with dated graphcis, and little weapon selection. But one that scratches only the surface 
 will be making a grave misjudgement.
  
  This masterpiece as the single best, most compelling and most well planned storyline I ever saw 
 in a game, with references to myth and reality, interesting and likeable characters, a convincing 
 futuristic setting and a cool main character, with a life to be discovered.
  
  Like I said, it is a mediocre shooter, but in fact, the game works more as an RPG than a shooter, 
 with quests, inventory, loads of dialogue options and alternate routes to obtain an objective.
 
  
  And did I mention it lasts tens of hours of play? Doesnt get much better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rentago
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  Since this was my first review on this site I had many flaws in my whole jumbled mess of a paragraph.
 
  
  So I'm redoing it all, first off this game was a stepping stone for other games to be built upon 
 to which we now have more freedom to play in them. Its more than just a predestined path now and 
 some games allow you to kill random doodads like birds flying around.
  
  This game was fun and great, with a story to keep you entertained for a long time. The gameplay 
 was brilliant, the graphics now aren't so great but compared with games of its time it was an improvement. 
 The sounds and surroundings bring you into the game. The value now is pretty cheap and affordable, 
 any computer can run it :D
  
  It had many puzzles and side quests to do that keeps you on the ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advo02
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is hands-down one of the best I have ever played in my over 10 years experience playing 
 video games. I purchased the Deus Ex Game of the Year edition several years ago when it came out 
 and I have played through and beaten the game three times since (to give you an idea, it probably 
 takes a solid 20-25 hours, sometimes more, to actually beat the game) .
  
  The thing that makes this game so strong is the storyline. It really isn't just another shoot-em-up 
 FPS; it combines the special abilities of your character with all kinds of different weapons which 
 you must use together to defeat a wide array of enemies. It never really gets old! The graphics 
 are also great in my opinion, but what really adds effect is the music. When I bought the game 
 it came with the soundtrack, and even today I consider that some of the best in-game music I've 
 ever heard. It gives a feel to the game that simply completes the whole experience.
  
  Ultimately, this game is one of the best ever, in my opinion, because it requires you to be smart 
 and use your brain to progress through the levels. You must interact with multiple characters and 
 all your interactions determine how the game plays out in the future. I have certainly gotten every 
 penny worth out of this game and I would recommend it to virtually anyone who likes great video 
 games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoboWizard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to really dissect what makes Deus Ex great in something like a game review, if only because 
 when one looks at the individual elements of its gameplay, it seems like a mediocre shooter with 
 an underdeveloped RPG system and shoddy stealth mechanics. However, when you add all these seemingly 
 unimpressive elements together, mix in one of the most thought-provoking and well-developed storylines 
 in the history of the video game medium, and consider the game's unique and unparalleled atmosphere, 
 it's hard not to look at Deus Ex as one of video gaming's greatest achievements.
  
  The central focus of what makes Deus Ex great is it's element of choice, which plays out both in 
 the storyline and the actual gameplay. Throughout the course of your journey as JC Denton, a futuristic 
 anti-terrorist specialist enhanced with nanotechnology, you'll make many tough decisions that force 
 you to think hardly about which route to take. The game has no morality meter, but you'll soon 
 find that it would have been nearly impossible to implement such a thing with such morally ambiguous 
 options placed in front of you. Some choices have obvious pros and cons, while others may not have 
 any visible consequences until several missions down the road.
  
  This may seem like an odd way of directing the flow of the game. After all, isn't a game all about 
 "action -  reaction" / "cause -  effect?" However, Deus Ex prides itself on making you think. By 
 the end of the game, you may even start to wonder just how much of the seemingly absurd things 
 proposed in the story could be true, since there seems to be both logic and factual evidence behind 
 almost all of them.
  
  Of all the choices throughout the game, however, the first one you'll be making is what JC will 
 look like (and, subsequently, what his twin brother will look like) and what skills he will possess. 
 Deus Ex has a large array of skills to choose from, ranging from weapon skills, lockpicking, and 
 even hacking. However, you'll find that some are far better than others and some skills outright 
 become obsolete at later parts of the game. Still, though, it allows you to play the game as you 
 see fit and develop in areas you want to develop in without fussing with unnecessary abilities. 
 No matter how you play, you won't be at any real disadvantage when choosing your skills.
  
  Once you pick up your weapon of choice, it's time to start busting some heads. The game's open-ended 
 environments can be bewildering as first to those expecting a straight shooter, but once you pick 
 up some ammunition from a fellow soldier and pick up an informant's key, it's off to the center 
 of all the fighting.
  
  Combat itself is enjoyable, though leaves a lot to be desired when compared to some of the better 
 first-person shooters on the market. Targeting enemies is based on your skills with the weapon 
 and the upgrades it has (accuracy, laser sight, scope, etc...) , but luckily anyone who takes time 
 to aim (a simple endeavor, though difficult in an all-out brawl) will find that this is no random-die-roll 
 dungeon crawler. The bulk of your weapon enhancements only effect how fast you get to your maximum 
 accuracy, which is nicely indicated by four points that converge into the center of the reticule.
 
  
  The game also features a nice selection of weapons. These include pistols, crossbows, rocket launchers, 
 rifles, and even some unique weapons thrown in for good measure. Though you'll constantly be exposed 
 to newer and flashier weapons, most all of the standards will never become obsolete, so any upgrades 
 made are worthwhile for the long-run of the game. 
  
  In addition to skills you can also come across augmentations. These are, essentially, special powers 
 that can be used at the cost of Bioelectric Energy and perform a number of unique tricks. Each 
 canister has two augmentations, but only one can be chosen per slot (eye, arms, legs, etc) , with 
 a few exceptions. Like skills, while they're fun to experiment around with, you'll quickly find 
 that some are just outright superior to others, and you'll really only be using a few of the augmentations.
 
  
  Apart from using brute force and augmentations, the player also has a number of stealth options. 
 However, these play out all too simply. You can duck down to avoid being heard while walking, knock 
 guards out with non-lethal force or silenced weapons to avoid being detect by sentries, and manipulate 
 cameras, turrets, etc. The latter option is especially fun to toy around with, though hacking (be 
 it security or ATMs) is simply a matter of pushing a button and waiting for results.
  
  Graphically, the game is good for its time, though not overly impressive even by the standards 
 of that era. It runs off of the Unreal Engine, and as a result boasts some nice looking environments 
 and an engaging graphical atmosphere, though the character models, backgrounds, and animations 
 are rather simplistic.
  
  Audio, too, has its share of pros and cons. On the plus side, the game's techno soundtrack by veteran 
 video game composer Alexander Brandon is more than worth storing on your mp3 player of choice for 
 later listening if you're at all into the techno scene. However, the tracks simply repeat over 
 and over for each area (which is done seamlessly and never breaks immersion, though it may get 
 old if its one of the less-engaging tracks) . Sound effects can seem under whelming at times, and 
 the repetitive death noises of your foes can become almost comical. Voice acting, while spotted 
 with a few exceptional performances (such as Bob Page and Walton Simons, to name a few) , overall 
 is a low point. The game's protagonist, especially, suffers from an overly monotone voice and laughable 
 enunciation.
  
  If you want a game that will last a long while and keep you coming back year after year, however, 
 look no farther than Deus Ex. I bought the game of the year edition back when it first hit shelves, 
 and still play it to this day. Even now, I'm still finding new pieces of dialogue I had never heard 
 before and finding new areas I had never explored before. The attention to detail is astonishing, 
 and well worth the price of the game (about $15 at your local EB Games) . It's a lasting experience 
 and a lasting value and my personal favorite game of all time, despite its shortcomings.
  
  It can be easy to downplay Deus Ex for having weak individual elements when analyzed like a piece 
 of machinery. But in a world where video games are being considered as much art as science, it 
 seems wiser to look at the piece as a whole and accept it as being great just because it is.
  
  -RoboWizard
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 12, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Hello im gonna tell you something about the deusex game part 1.
  
  The game is suprisingly good in all stuff, if you have any questions send them to me.
  
  Sounds: 
 The game sounds are average, weapon sounds are average, voice acting is good, environment sounds 
 are OK.
  The music of this game is very nice, lots of variety and perfectly fitting for each map.
  
 
  Music: Look above!!
  
  Graphics: I've never seen better graphics in a game before, i just love the graphics, in my opinion 
 the graphs are equal to halflife 2 graphics, but thats my opinion.
  
  Gameplay: Very good, best part of the game.
  The game offers lots of missions and sub-missions, 
 so it makes the game of good value.
  The cheats and mods for this game are also very good and improves the value and gameplay of this 
 game.
  If you have cheats on an type legend at the console, you can choose of the maps you want to play, 
 or choose the music you like.
  
  Online gameplay: Best online gameplay i've ever seen in the deathmatch and team deathmatch games.
 
  
  Variety: Good and solid.
  Lots of maps, enemies, difficulty, more ways too kill enemies or assault a base.
  
  This was 
 my review for Deusex 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJMikhail
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Why one word? Well, you could use many one words to describe this masterful piece of graphics (i 
 agree, not the prettiest) , gameplay, sound and last but not least the storyline.
  
  The game puts you in the spotlight, you given a start of a discussion between two high ranking 
 men, who do not look ordinary and from there, you probably have no idea what is going on.
  
  This is what puzzled me at first but once the game starts, you are in the hotseat, you train 
 and learn what the ins and outs are of your capabilities. Once training is complete, you learn 
 on instinct, your decisions determine how the relationship builds up between your friends and foes, 
 whilst uncovering a mass consipiracy.
  
  There are no cutscenes, the action is non-stop, from taking out terrorists to achieve your objectives 
 to buying ammo or other equipment from soldiers to accomplishing the main goal, how you want the 
 world to turn out to be. You at times either feel anger and disgust after being stabbed in the 
 back and you have to find alternative ways round to complete your objective, there are several 
 ways of doing it.
  
  The music is enthrawling, it attaches you to the game and keeps you on your toes because you never 
 know what could be around the corner. The game allows you to explore the environment and plan on 
 how to complete objectives by stealth or all out offensive, by stealth, you could use darts to 
 take out enemies and hide the bodies or openly by using assault rifles and grenades. Its no simply 
 FPS, its a combination of action and simulation, you need to establish yourself by examining what 
 you can do and use against your enemies and take the course of action and use whatever means necessary 
 to complete your goals.
  
  This game can be addictive, even bringing yourself back to it even after completing it and finding 
 other ways to complete it. Its a good read and understanding as well fun on the sides. It doesn't 
 matter how old the game is, I would still go back reload it and play it many times over and over 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFear34
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Now, I don't usually write reviews (and definitely not this late) but, I felt this was totally 
 necessary as some people have never heard of this game. 
  
  Anyhow, when you first get started your an agent going against a group called the NSA, typical 
 story so far, when your brother messes up in Hell's Kitchen, and no one knows where he is. Anyways, 
 I won't ruin it for you but let's just say, this story has more to it then most "A" grade movies.
 
  
  The gameplay, also works excellently. You have a rather small inventory to keep your guns, ammo, 
 and such. The real difference here is that you have bio-mods, or things that alter and/or give 
 you new abilities. These work excellent also, as they really add a whole new level of gameplay 
 into the already stellar Deus Ex.
  
  The music and atmosphere in this game can totally be described as cyber-punk and that's not a bad 
 thing in this case, it really has a nice feel, and sets up the storyline nicely. 
  
  Everything is responsive, you can affect the story by decisions you don't think about as much as 
 it shows of your character... This is the showing of a perfect game in all aspects to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fr0zenSpark
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's review is the dictionary definition of a word misleading. This game is very atmospheric 
 and can be played infinite amount of time and still bring something new every time you play it. 
 The story is amazing the graphics are... well, back in the day they were amazing but graphics do 
 not make a game what it is. The sound is great and the voice acting superb. If you have never played 
 this game, now is your chance to find a copy of it (while its still available, not PS2 version, 
 PC version is 100x better) and experience the world of Deus Ex. Too bad the sequal sucked some 
 big donkey balls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jernas
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  This game is better than HL 2 or Doom 3, trust me. The real revolution. You play as supercop/human 
 Denton and you work for UNATCO - United Nations Anti Terrorist Coalition. But suddenly your brother 
 Paul Denton, witch is working for the same organization, change sides. After that, you started 
 to realise, that you are fighting against wrong enemy, so you join the rebel forces... etc. You'll 
 never be bored. There is so much to do in this game. You can talk to everyone, do crazy missions 
 like selling drugs...
  
  Graphics are quite good, maps are well designed. There are more than ten weapons, and some of them 
 (Grenade launcher) do nice visual effects.
  
  Sound is very good. Every AI human/machine has his own voice.
  
  Get this game. Now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gp_Chris
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 17, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game, if you can get past the first level and overlook some small graphical and AI flaws, 
 what you have is one of the greatest gaming stories ever told, a massive weave of conspiracy unraveling 
 before you forcing you to choose sides. This game pioneered too many features to list. Go ahead, 
 play, its lost some flair with time but you wont be dissapointed. Also the sequel was phenomenal. 
 I found myself playing for hours at a time, refusing to sleep, just to see what happened next. 
 ** Spoiler Alert** There were moments where I almost wanted to cry, and moments i refused to accept, 
 like when paul died. Tragic. The ending is amazing, there are 3, I picked the one to restart the 
 world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necros_21
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The heir of System Shock 2 is here. And is it as good as it's ancestor? It's way better! Warren 
 Spector really outdid himself.
  
  Graphics: When the game was released it was a good loking game. But I didn't give a 10 for that. 
 I gave it because the design was superb. The maps are brilliantly planned, and they make you feel 
 like you are in the game for real.
  
  Sound: What can I say? I listen to the music of the game a lot. There's a tool, that you can use 
 to extract the music in .it format (winamp can play it) from the game. The voice actors did a fantastic 
 job. There are only a few games with such good voices.
  
  Gameplay: First about the story. I risk to say this: DX has one of the best stories ever in the 
 world of PC games. It's not as simple and dumb as HL1 or 2 (you know, many people are sayin' that 
 those games have great stories, but it ain't true) . It has values in it, it is interesting, there 
 are great characters in it and it won't let you go! Hell! I played through the demo at least twenty 
 times before I could get the full version, and it always gave me new ways to solve the problems 
 and it didn't bore me.
  
  The most important thing is: you have to try it if you hadn't got the luck yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:38 pm PT
Review:  A first person shoot-um-up that gave you alot of up front combat.
  
  First off, you start with training, and you learn what armour and wepons you can use and then go 
 through several jumps and swimming under water, then they test you fighting techniques.
  
  Then once ready you begin you mission, by going undercover and finding out what the other organisation 
 is up to and you need to sneak in, un seen and collect anough info on the person you need to capture 
 or kill.
  
  You get to pick lock, use laser guns, laser swords, shot guns, and lots more.
  
  Theres plenty 
 to do in this game.
  
  If you make it half way through the game, you get to enjoy a strip club ware house, where some 
 chicks try to chat you up, Then the party Kicks in.
  
  IF YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN!!!!!!
  
  Guns Bang Bang etc...
  
  No dirty play sorry.
  
  A great game, Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricwhite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I play a lot of PC games  mostly FPS. Some have been very good. I enjoyed F. E. A. R, Far Cry, Half-Life 
 2, Call of Duty 2, Doom 3, etc. But my favorite PC of all time is Deus Ex. No game has matched 
 the Deus Ex experience. In a way, Deus Ex has ruined PC gaming for me. Whenever I play a new game, 
 I always instantly compare it to Deus Ex. I keep searching for a game that gives me the same "feeling" 
 I got when I played Deus Ex. Sadly, nothing comes close.
  
  I'm not exactly sure what it is about the game that engrosses me so much. I think the combination 
 of story, characterization, intrigue, plot, action, adventure, and atmosphere all combined together 
 almost perfectly to create an amazing experience. All the graphic and audio power of today's games 
 can't offset the incredible atmosphere that was created in Deus Ex. 
  
  Deus Ex still reigns as my favorite PC game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mothergoose8619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2005 5:10 am PT
Review:  Ok im not gonna spend ages writing a review because i have to go but basically all im gonna tell 
 you is that this is the single greatest game since Zelda and it is THE Best game on pc Buy it now 
 as its only 1-5 or in American Currency terms that's about $1-$8 I Believe but im not always 
 right anyway please buy this game its fantastic sorry but i must go so the next part of the review 
 will be filler  
 Long can it take to write one-hundred words in the 2 minutes that i have to leave! ...................... Sorry 
 about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  [This review originally appears on TRIGAMES. NET]
  
  I'm going to rob you, my friend. You in that little house of yours, with the nice grassy lawn. 
 Question is, do I go through the front door? Do I go through the back door? Do I go through the 
 garage? Do I climb the roof and Santa Claus it? Or do I just avoid the hassle of run-ins with de 
 law and go home and play Deus Ex for my open-ended, stealth/shootout needs?
  
  I think I'll play Deus Ex. Not that I'm scared of being shot, mind you (although I am) , but because 
 everyone should have at least a 5 hour helping of that game. You see, Deus Ex -- created by genius 
 Warren Spector and his team Ion Storm -- is something special. It takes some of the best aspects 
 of different games and rolls them into a ball of gunk for you to play around with. Whether you 
 like to sneak around a la Metal Gear Solid or Thief, or you like gibbing soldiers with a well-placed 
 rocket, or you feel the need to build a character from scratch with different skills, Deus Ex does 
 it. And well.
  
  Deus Ex is short for the phrase, "Deus Ex Machina", or "God from machine." From what I hear, it 
 represents the sudden manifestation of a problem's resolution when a situation seems fruitless 
 (correct me if I'm wrong please) . Deus Ex has you fill the role of J. C. Denton, a new breed of 
 agent with nanotechnology running through his blood. He is the second generation of "augmented" 
 soldiers, the augmentations being enhancements and add-ons to one's natural abilities. You start 
 out working for UNATCO, a peace-keeping organization trying to rid a desolated world of terrorism, 
 specifically a group called the NSF, while distributing the vaccine for an eerie fatal plague known 
 as "Gray Death". After your first mission which involves recovering a canister of the vaccine intercepted 
 by the NSF, you learn more about UNATCO, the NSF, the current situation of the world, and more. 
 You're then taken on a ride through government conspiracies and rebel organizations with plenty 
 of plot twists to keep your brain tingling with glee.
  
  The story is kept moving along with in-game cutscenes (no grainy FMVs here) accompanied by mostly 
 good, but inconsistent, voice acting. It also uses newspapers, books and e-mail terminals to vomit 
 tons of information and interesting plot points. But although the plot is interesting and just 
 plain cool, I never found myself genuinely caring for or indentifying with the characters in the 
 game except for J. C.'s brother, Paul Denton, and their physician, Jaime Reyes. Perhaps it's the 
 lack of true character development, or the coldness of the characters (it *is* a bleak future, 
 after all) , but something just made me not really care about the possibility of them dying or getting 
 captured or whatnot.
  
  Still, I enjoyed the plot, and the gameplay would have sucked me in regardless of the plot. That's 
 what's important, right? I still haven't decided what the gameplay *is* although I personally feel 
 it's mostly FPS-RPG with action and adventure thrown in. That's the best way to describe it -- 
 a huge hybrid. I'll touch upon the character building first. You can train yourself in different 
 skill areas such as weapon proficiencies, lockpicking, computer hacking, etc. The points you use 
 to distribute are amassed by completing missions and tasks, and exploring or discovering new areas. 
 Each of the skills has different levels of proficiency, and achieving higher levels obviously costs 
 more points, so as you move along you'll find it hard to just dump your points in all of the categories. 
 This leads to a deep strategy of how you want to build your character and ultimately how you want 
 to play the game (although being well-rounded is still a possiblity) . You can build up on heavy 
 weapons skills if you want to haul around that sweet GEP gun (the rocket launcher) . Or you can 
 go Thief and build up your lock-picking skills. Enjoy headshots from a distance? Build up your 
 rifle skills and enjoy the sniper rifle.
  
  In addition to your skillset, there are also the augmentations, which as I said before are additions 
 and enhancements to your character (provided by that cool refreshing nanotechnology running through 
 his blood) . You can augment different parts of your physiology, such as lungs, arms, legs, and 
 sensory abilities. These augmentations come through canisters that are picked up throughout the 
 game, and can be upgraded using a different type of augmentation canister. When you install a new 
 augmentation, you are restricted to one of two choices. Again, this dictates how you will play 
 the game. For instance, the sight augmentation gives you the option of targeting versus enhanced 
 vision. If you're a gung-ho shootemup kind of player, targeting will give you info on your target 
 such as health remaining. On the other hand, if you're looking to avoid people, enhanced vision 
 ultimately lets you see through walls. It's your call. Combined with the skillsets, all of this 
 molds what type of Agent you want JC to be. It's pretty deep and very, very cool.
  
  It's also very important to consider what kind of character you want to control, as the open-ended 
 nature of the game presents at least two or three different paths for completing each mission. 
 A hacker would be best suited to finding computer terminals to unlock doors and redirect turret 
 fire, while someone with high weapon proficiency and physical defense augmentations would just 
 want to tank through enemies the brute-force way. Different things may also happen depending on 
 how many enemies you kill and/or who you talk to, which vastly increases the replay value. For 
 instance, kill too many people in your first mission and the quartermaster in charge of ammo at 
 headquarters will refuse to supply you with extra bullets, tossing you tranquilizer darts instead. 
 During conversations with characters, you are also given different choices of what to say, even 
 further affecting the game. You can beat the answer out of someone, running the risk of ultimately 
 not getting the answer. You can try smooth talking, and then if that doesn't work, the almighty 
 credit bribery works like a charm.
  
  Then there's the interface. While complicated and intimidating at first, I found it very functional 
 as I continued to play. Your health is divided between your arms, legs, torso and head. If your 
 legs lose their HP, you can't run. If your head loses its HP, well, uh, it's quite obvious. You 
 also have a screen for your Augs and very detailed descriptions of each of their functions. There 
 is a map and images screen to help you with missions, and the inventory -- which functions much 
 like Diablo's (what-to-keep-and-what-to-drop thinking sessions included) -- displays in-depth data 
 on each item you carry. The Log and Conversation screens are perhaps the most useful, as they display 
 vital information for your mission: goals, important notes (such as passwords) , and information 
 obtained from speaking with people. My brain sucks, so I found myself constantly referring back 
 to the logs in order to progress.
  
  The in-game action is pretty slick too, but suffers from a few small flaws. Sneaking around in 
 the shadows is always fun, as is peeking around corners to check the situation. However, while 
 the enemy AI is fairly realistic, once in awhile it gets ridiculous. You can hide in a dark corner 
 of a really small room and peg two people in the back, and the third one still won't figure out 
 where the shots are coming from. You can hide in ventilation shafts that are entered by crawling 
 on the ground, fire rounds upon rounds, and wonder why other soldiers don't have the ability to 
 crawl in after you. On the flip side, sometimes the exact opposite happpens -- you'll be 200 feet 
 away crouching behind a blockade, and hitting someone with silenced sniper fire will send hordes 
 of soldiers heading for your exact hiding spot without the slightest bit of hesitation. It's mostly 
 well done, but you're guaranteed to run into these consistencies somewhere along the line.
  
  The actual combat isn't as fluid or smooth as your normal first-person shooter. J. C. runs a 
 bit slower than you may be used to, and because your targeting reticule resembles the ones in Tom 
 Clancy's Rogue Spear and Countrstrike (you have to stand still as the crosshairs converge to get 
 the highest hit probability) it becomes hard to run around and pelt someone accurately. However, 
 using weapons such as assault rifles, shotguns with autofire, and mini-crossbows with tranquilizer 
 darts it a pleasure once you find out how to connect. Combining stealth with sniper rifles, silenced 
 pistols, and grenades (which you can plant on walls as proximity mines) had me cackling evilly.
 
  
  Personally, I felt that the lock-picking and electronics bypassing was done rather cheaply. Locks 
 and machines have a certain amount of resistance to lockpicks and electronic multitools in the 
 form of a percentage. Now, the lockpicks and multitools are gathered as if they're disposable. 
 To unlock a door, it will take a certain amount of picks to bring the door's resistance down to 
 0 percent (at which point it can be opened) . Now, when you boost your lockpicking ability, you 
 decrease the number of locks you need to use to open a door. The realistic thing to do would be 
 to have one lockpick, and an increase in skill would reduce the amount of time that one lockpick 
 would take to unlock a door. If that was too simple, then Ion Storm could have formulated a lockpicking 
 "system" that had you actually doing something, something they finally implemented in Anachronox, 
 instead of going up to a door and clicking. Disabling electronics (laser tripwires and gun turrets) 
 is done in the same fashion, only with multitools.
  
  On the whole, however, I still couldn't resist the depth of the gameplay. The lockpicking issues 
 didn't detract from my enjoyment at all, and the scattered enemy AI was little more than a curious 
 nuisance. Sadly, "curious nuisance" isn't enough to describe the game's graphical problems. On 
 the plus side, areas are made up of many buildings and structures to explore. As per the game's 
 open-ended nature, there are a whole lot of places to go and things to do even if they don't necessarily 
 pertain to a mission goal. One of the problems however, is -- like Quake 2's "brownness" -- everything 
 seems "gray." Sure, the buildings are mostly cold metal and concrete, but Ion Storm could have 
 spiced them up with a little more detail.
  
  Characters, while decent below the neck, have very low-poly faces. It's as if everyone has pointy 
 cheeks in this game. Ion Storm attempted to lip-sync the voice acting with more than just open-close 
 mouth movements, in order to match the pronunciation of words, but it's very choppy and out-of-sync 
 with the voices.
  
  Lucky for me, the Ears are nowhere near as devastated as the Eyes are. The sound in Deus Ex is 
 quite good, which is a relief because sound in Deus Ex is extremely important. With the right sound 
 hardware, you'll be able to gauge how far away and in what the direction your enemy is in, if s/he's 
 closing in on you or walking away. Audio enhancements via some kind of Environmental Audio technology 
 (EAX for instance) are also quite a pleasure to listen to, with the sounds adjusting to their environments 
 (echoes, muffled noises, etc) . Voice acting, for the most part, is well done -- but J. C. changes 
 emotions about as often as a brick. An emotional brick, but a brick nevertheless. Some NPCs are 
 actually pretty badly done, with overdone accents or just drab acting, but for the most part Deus 
 Ex's voice acting sounds convincing. The music is pretty sweet too, although it's nothing groundbreaking. 
 It changes dynamically according to your combat situation, and its techno-feel and slick tunes 
 pushed me to convert them into Winamp-playable files using the Unreal Editor (which I found somewhere 
 in Unreal Tournament's Systems folder) .
  
  In the end, the thing that makes Deus Ex such a beautiful game is the almost (but not quite) open-ended 
 nature of it all that lends to its true role-playing structure. While the mission progression is 
 strictly linear, how you go about them is not. If it had just been a straight up mission based 
 shooter, even with all of the fancy shmancy character tweaks, I wouldn't have enjoyed it as much 
 as I do. The ability to just decide how you're going to do things instead of sticking to a protocol 
 keeps me coming back for much, much more. It's deep and engrossing, yet it never gets to a point 
 where you're so stuck that you never touch it again. In a game industry where lots of caca-ware 
 is shoveled out by publishers week in and week out, Deus Ex truly is God from machine. (Warren 
 Spector's machine.)
  
  Now, give me some Splinter-Cell like abilities and fine-tune the AI... and you've got yourself 
 a hermit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katarn_123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:41 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex. Only one way to describe it. FANTASTIC. Even now, compared to all the high tech graphics 
 of Doom 3 and Half Life 2 thsi game remains my favourite. If it weren't for the dated graphics 
 i'd say that this game is still worth full price. And the fact that you can still pick it up for 
 around $10 is just great.
  
  You Play as J. C Denton, a new recruit agent working for U. N. A. T. C. O, an anti terrorist agency. 
 But as you progress you unravel a terrible conspiricy and must determine were you're loyalties 
 lie...
  
  The storyline is just TOPS. 100000/10. Easily. I won't tell you anything more about it so I don't 
 ruin it. 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10. I just love the gameplay, with all the emersive Role playing and communication. 
 The stealth is excellent, and the objectives actually have some point! My only complaint is that 
 the combat does occasionally become sluggish, and this game can get very dificult at times, and 
 I played this on the EASY difficulty! Apart from that the gameplay is top notch. 
  
  Graphics. 7/10. A bit disapointing, although I will take into acount that this game is pretty old. 
 But then again i'm not too fussy about graphics, as long as they're not as bad as the original 
 doom. 
  
  Sound: 9/10. Great, I just love the soundtrack! From the bouncy tune of Hong Kong to the mysterious 
 Paris. The only thing that keeps sound from getting a 10 is the voice acting. It is BAD. The voice 
 acting is very monotone, and gets dull. However there are a few good performances, such as Jock 
 the Pilot. I LOVE this character!!!
  
  Value. 10/10. Wow, this game will take you at lest 3 to 6 months to complete, and without getting 
 repetitive, and has great replay value. The multiplayer is a bit dull, but i'll look over that.
 
  
  Tilt: 10/10. Top stuff, once I get this game back off my friend i'll definitly be playing it again!
 
  
  Complaints. Not many to be honest wtih you, apart from dated graphics, medicorine voice acting 
 and cut scenes. This might seem a bit light, but thats all the complaints there are to have. 
 
  
  I highly recomend this game, for $10, why the hell not?
  
  Nick. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummie9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  One of my favorite games I love how well they mixed the rpg and fps 
  asspects . This game is deffinetily a "classic" and you should play it. This game has 3 differant 
 endings and many choices to
  make. I started playing it awile back and just couldnt stop playing.
  there are also a wide varity 
 of weapons and other things to find.
  
  As you move through the game you collect skill points and credits.
  the skill points are used 
 to upgrade a varity of skills like electronics
  computers lockpicking pistols rifles and more.
  The credits are used to buy equipment and mods 
 for weopons and
  sometimes passwords. as you advance through the
  game you will find augs short for augmentations to give abilitys
  and resitances.
  the game 
 is also very lengthy.
  If you like rpg's and fps's it is a definite buy.
  
  on the bad side it dosent always run as well as it should and
  some parts can be way to easy 
 . but in the long run this game 
  is amazing and you should buy it and anyway its very cheep now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedMonkeyPoo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:03 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME RULES GAWD I LOVE IT ITS MY FAVORITE GAME EVER CREATED GAWD ITS SO AWSOME I LOVE IT SO 
 MUCH I LOVE IT GOD GOD GOD GOD I LOVE IT o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o oo o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidDenton
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2005 4:20 pm PT
Review:  OH GOD I LOVE THIS GAME PLEASE BUY IT ITS SO AWSOME I LOVE IT SO MUCH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BUY IT 
 I LOVE IT SO MUCH  
 THE WAY I LOVE IT IS UNHEALTHY PLEASE BUY IT WHOA I LOVE IT SO MUCH YARG BUY IT GOOOOD WHOO ITS 
 SO COOL AND GREAT I LOVE IT SO MUCH I WANT TO MARRY IT COME TO THE WEDDING! ITS SO  
 I LOVE  
  
 I LOVE IT SO MUCH  
  
   
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yse yes yes yes yes yes yse yes yes yes 
 yes yes yes yesy yse yes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  If I could take one game to heaven with me, it would be this.
  Such a brilliant plot with so many different outcomes has never been known, and even if they made 
 one like it, this would still be the mother. The graphics are on such a high quality that you really 
 feel in the game, you are JC and you do carry all these mega weapons and mind blowing augs.
  The various pieces of music fit in superbly with the games different areas, and the maps are exact 
 to the point. Every stunning detail, every road, every house, they're all real. Well, maybe not 
 the bloodstains all over your shoes but... there you go.
  A plot like this deserves all the attenion it gets, being such a complicated, twisted one. Are 
 you for or against terrorism? Are you going to kill Page, or Join with Helios? Each decision takes 
 you deeper into this masterful plot.
  It's very easy to 'pick up and play' and very easy to get addicted to. Just half an hour on this 
 is enough to set you going, and you'll never want to leave the computer screen. 
  The PC version is miles better than the rubbish PS2 port, so if you want a new game for xmas, get 
 this for PC. Don't worry about how old it is (it is five years old by the way) , it will out live 
 every other game you care to mention by a century, and is perfect in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  Just finished Deus Ex. the original one, from around 2001 or something. When I was in Japan, I 
 heard some geek I worked with talking about it, and if you're like me, when a geek brags about 
 something... you stay away from it. That is what I did until I found this game for a cheap price 
 on www. amazon. com. To the mini-review.
  
  The graphics were probably good for the days but they don't hold a candle to today's. I mean everything 
 looks like what it should be, just in a pretty basic way. I think it's about Nintendo 64 graphics.
 
  Most of the voices were average or below. I guess in 2001 it was still cool to have a deep, monotone 
 voice for your hero. This combined with the leather trench coat and sunglasses meant the hero was 
 kick ass. Also this was the age of Techno music... The little phenomenon where talent less people 
 in their early 20's made music on their computer en masse. It all boils down to a below average 
 for the sound. Other than these personal flaws... everything was decent for it's time.
  
  Game play is where this game makes up a lot of it's points. The missions and side quests are pretty 
 varied and there's numerous ways to accomplish each one. You could go into every situations with 
 guns blazing, or look for vents to sneak around in. The nano upgrades and skills make it so that 
 you can customize your character to cater to your own needs. The 2 dozen or so options contain 
 a surprising amount of depth. 
  
  The story line pretty much has you playing a puppet throughout the whole game. If you're not helping 
 one group, you're helping another. During the game are little choices you can make but they seem 
 useless when the end of the game nears. 
  
  Overall it's a decent game, even for today's standards, that is if you can forgive the graphics 
 and sound. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This game may be a bit older now and won't appeal to many gamers because the graphics are no longer 
 cutting edge. However, this game is still worthy of any gamers attention. The story is fresh and 
 original. This game has great game play, dialogue options, and plenty of weapons and biomodification 
 enhancements. If you have never played this game you should check it out. In addition to this it 
 has definite replayability as well. The ability to start the game over and re-build your character 
 with different bio mods allows you to play the game over again, but with a modified degree of difficulty 
 due to not having the same skills and abilities you did the first time around, which forces you 
 to come up with new and different ways to overcome challenges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenton
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex, a Rpg/adventure/shooter game set in the future of the world. Great cyberpunk plot contains 
 many great twist and turns. controls work well with 3 minutes of play. Great leveling system lets 
 you gain experiance in certain feilds such as hacking, pistols, rifle, ect. Around 13 missions 
 taking you to diffrent locations around the globe. 
  Deus ex at its core is an rpg over anything else, because the factor of a higher level helps more 
 than skill. the systems it uses to create this rpg affect are the skills, and augmentation. The 
 skills are purchased though skill points which you aquire through acheiveing in game goals. The 
 augmentations on the other hand are found in certain areas as items, when placed in a certain slot 
 they perminatly give a superhuman cyborg abilty such as superspeed, an auqalung, or the ability 
 to create a camera that moves around and can fire electronic bolts. 
  If youve already played deus ex's mainstream sequel before playing this one like me, then you should 
 know some things about this game. Keep playing through the beggening even though some of the concepts 
 may seem retarted. Alot of things are different than the 2nd but are still valuble.
  The graphics are decnt for a game with this much volume for the time. But the sound is truely great. 
 The music kicks in during intense situations, and the musci when entering certain buildings reflects 
 the emotion. 
  Overall deus ex is on of the great games in the past 5 years, in the category of rpg or shooter. 
 you have to pick this one up, i got mine on amazon. com for under 7 usd. This is a great value Buy 
 it if youve ever had the urge to shoot something. Buy it if youve ever had the urge to level up. 
 Buy it if youve ever had the urge to Play a great video game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2005 11:44 pm PT
Review:  When this game came out a few years ago, it was the best game I have ever played. It was ambitious 
 by combing the FPS and Role-Playing genres. You could play the game almost anyway you liked and 
 be rewarded or punished as a result.
  Gameplay - Since there were so many ways you could play the game, it was almost like 2 games in 
 one. You could sneak around all the levels, or just kill every last person. I love the idea of 
 the game letting you decide how you want to play a level.
  Graphics - I believe Deus Ex used the Unreal Engine. It looked excellent several years ago, but 
 the game has aged. There are some neat lighting effects and blood effects, which looked amazing 
 at the time.
  Sound - When I played it on a newer computer, I noticed that I was still experiencing some static 
 after hitting something. It was always very strange to me. I also have to complain about the acting 
 at some parts in the game. Sometimes, it would sound like a completely different person was voicing 
 a character in the game, which can be very confusing.
  Value - Very long game with GREAT replay value. The multiplayer is decent but I don't think anyone 
 plays this anymore.
  Tilt - One of the best games of all time in my opinion. This game really changed the way I now 
 look at an RPG or FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mideypack
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex is a masterpiece. This game has mutiple endings and endless variations. Want to kill an 
 enemy at long range but don't have a sniper? Mount a scope on your pistol. Mod your weapons anyway 
 you want. I've played this game many times and one time the main charactor's brother died and another 
 time he lived. You'll never find all the secrets without looking them up on the net. Take out enemy 
 guards by rushing them. Take them out by making them think you're somewhere you aren't then wasting 
 them. The only thing I dislike about this game is the fact you rarely get to buy stuff with all 
 the money you get, but thats nothing to hold against the game. The story grows on you each time 
 you play the game. If you start playing this when you have a few days off work, you'll have dreams 
 about it. 
  My most common addiction sign for this game was constantly wanting to save my.."life" before doing 
 something really important. This game is truely one of the best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldog19892
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 21, 2005 7:59 pm PT
Review:  The storyline for this game is out of this world, playing off of conspiracy theories and masonic 
 beliefs throughout the whole game, while presenting you with a very interactive and gritty setting.
 
  
  The gameplay is pretty good, with the ability to augment and upgrade yourself to your specifications 
 and preferences. The actual fighting is sort of non-existent because you could just run away from 
 a fight and pick off enemies from a distance easier than it would be to stand and actually fight 
 them. Unless you're in tight quarters, than you will probably have to go toe to toe with the bad 
 guys.
  
  The storyline is what makes this game 1999's game of the year. Imaginitive, immersive, intelligent, 
 great dialouge, great premise, and a lot of current world connections. I can only tell you that 
 the story, dialouge, and presentation are what makes this game worth every penny.
  
  The graphics... not so good. Even in it's time the graphics aren't spectacular, as opposed to other 
 games like Halo that were made at the same time. The animations are not complete, like when a character 
 strafes left, he moves left, but he animates like he's strafing right.
  
  All in all, this game is a fantastic peice of work, don't let my "8.7" rating fool you, I would 
 have rated this a "9.0" if it wasn't for the automatic rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonecas99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  the imotoin is the best the style is huge... the interativity its fenomunal...... just one of the 
 best... in 20 game one is the best and deus ex is the first in 100... iwish that deus ex 1... revive 
 with the same things but the best grafics.............. ... ..... ....... ........ ........... ion 
 storm and other companies please create deus ex 1 again with best grafics............ ......... 
 .... ...... ......... thx for a creating a game like that................ ......... ..... ............ 
 .... ......... ........ .. ....... ...... .... ..... ........ ......... .. ........ .. ... ......... 
 ......... .............. ...... ...... ............. ... ....... ...... . ... ..... . ..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -craigy-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Having played this game a couple times over I can say that this is by far the greatest game that 
 I have everplay.
  
  The storyline to this game makes it so great, if this was a movie it would win oscars. The graphics 
 to this game are now old (old game funny enough) but still better than any game out, ever.
  
  If you are wondering weather of not to buy this game do it, buy it! (check Ebay on a couple 
 of dollars) . The charactors are fantastic each one has is an actor doing the voices, charactors 
 learn how each charactor will determin how you will finish the game.
  
  You can speak to nearly every charactor in the game and you can pick different things you want 
 to say to them. Their is about 5 different endings depending on what missions you do for other 
 groups and people. You can get to choose if you want to stay loyal to your police force or other 
 organtions you will soon meet later on in the game.
  
  Buy this game now if you have not already played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StAngerFrantic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 11, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Dont they all, well everyone should love this game.... still game of the year and critical acclaim 
 did seem to spark peoples head into gear about buying this ageing classic. It did me....
  
  Graphics: 
  Deus Ex has many good points and one must be its immensely stylized graphics. It 
 uses the old Unreal engine about a year after it was outdated by the Quake III engine, but it looks 
 better for it, as it portrays a grim, but realistic future life everything less than perfect and 
 a lived in feel to it, call me sad but also it is a very gothic style as well, as it is very dark 
 but looks brilliant the whole time, apart from the occasional frame rate drop and the feeling of 
 'why wont it just be daytime.'
  
  Sound:
  As with the stylized graphics it must have something else to keep the mood, and the soundtrack 
 does this very well, its darker style goes with the industrial style of music, with electronic 
 sythesized soundtrack and one real highlight is a Hong Kong Nightclub with about 2 minutes in game 
 time spent there but with 3 whole songs on a loop. The voice acting is for the whole good with 
 the occational flat-toned idiot doing some terrible voice acting. (Tracer Tong really standing 
 out... maybe Manderly too) With a half robotic cast thought, maybe it can get away with the awful 
 german accents on Anna Navarre and Guther Hermann...
  
  Story:
  Now, this cannot be rated enough, this game has a fantastic story. (FULL STOP) with betrayals, 
 backstabbing and the occasional romance (no, not really) but the interactiveness with the story 
 is quite impressive, where you can make life changing desicions for important characters. With 
 multiple endings and many little subtle differences mid-game, it has good replay value
  
  Gameplay :
  This is the main point of most of this games selling points, where there is 2 ways 
 through each level and most of the time a different way round something, well thats not entirely 
 true, as this game does have stealth, just its not a core part of it, but at least there is no 
 need for the classically annoying stealth level, you can use stealth and it does help but sometimes, 
 unlike what the game says, you cannot avoid being spotted, which can be a problem, as this action 
 element is slower than most shooting games, and requires thinking before 'each shot' and this can 
 become clunky, maybe it could get away with it, if it had been more focused on stealth?...
  
  --------------------------------------------------
  Scores:
  *Gameplay 9/10
  *Graphics 
 10/10
  *Sound 8/10
  *Story 10/10
  
  Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 22, 2005 7:35 pm PT
Review:  When the author first obtained this game, it was more sophisticated that the at-the-time computer 
 could handle. With a great deal of trepidation, the game was filed on the shelf for future game 
 play. After a year of so, the old computer was replaced, enabling the author to play this game. 
 Total astonishment was the feeling received by initiating the initial sequence of events that set 
 the stage to a multi-faceted gaming. The player can either approach the game from a kill-all, take-all, 
 be-all approach or take a more passive route (supposedly, one could traverse the entire game and 
 ONLY have to kill three individuals) - that would indeed be a challenge.
  
  Being a great integration of FPS and RPG this game smacks of System Shock 2. There are a wide range 
 of upgrades for bio-enhancement like being invisible, more strength with melee weapons, or just 
 being able to run faster. Once you pick an up-grade, you are saddled with that for the entire game. 
 So, pick your up-grades well. Weapons range from the mundane shotgun to quite sophisticated long 
 range, scoped, high-powered "weapons of mass destruction". On the other hand, many weapons are 
 non-lethal.
  
  The author has played this game at least four times. There are three different ending. Saving the 
 game toward the end would afford one to try each without having to endure the entire game to see 
 an alternative. Even though the game is futuristic in its setting there are many historically correct 
 events and places that J. C. Denton (the main character) deals with. The game deserves a very high 
 rating no matter what.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2005 2:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- This gameplay is awesome because there are a lot of special things in the game like using 
 lockpicks that get you in hidden places or places that you need to go to a certain place, the multitool 
 can crack the codes for doors and other things. Weapons are very unique in the game, and the best 
 part of this game is that you can a upgrade your skills and augmentations which can enchance your 
 character to become more powerful.
  
  Graphics- The graphics fit the game perfectly, the maybe not the best graphics for a 2000 game 
 but the are one of the better graphics in 2000 year.
  
  Sounds- Absolutely perfect I think, the sound of the weapons are great, you can totally hear people's 
 talking very clearly.
  
  Value- It got me to keep playing because you have choices in the game and I wanted to know what 
 happens in every part of the conversations, goals and new skills you get in the game.
  
  Tilt- All in overall, story is very interesting and... what the heck I think everything is awesome 
 in this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloviator
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 26, 2005 7:10 pm PT
Review:  
  While other newer games may be getting all the press and capturing everyones attention, classics 
 such as 2000s Deus Ex remain as examples of what makes a game a masterpiece. Though it has some 
 shortcomings in the graphical department, this game more than makes up for its minor flaws in every 
 other aspect of its presentation. When you reach the end of the game, you will truly feel like 
 you are part of the story, and are shaping the future of the world. Deus Ex is a spectacular sci-fi 
 adventure that superbly blends many different gameplay elements together, whiled giving the player 
 a unique and satisfying experience.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  While graphics and sound, cheap thrills and style, can make a game interesting, the true substance 
 of gameplay is what makes it a masterpiece. Deus Ex is such a game. It has so many elements that 
 make it different and unique, yet still keep it immensely enjoyable, that its hard to know where 
 to start. Well, I suppose I can start where you will: On a nondescript dock on Liberty Island in 
 New York. You are J. C. Denton, the newest nano-augmented member of UNATCO (United Nations Anti-Terrorist 
 Coalition) . The futuristic world that youre dropped into is ravaged by war and disease. The Grey 
 Death has killed or weakened millions of people worldwide. Those not dead or dying seem to be taking 
 sides in the battle for the control of Ambrosia, the only known vaccine for the disease. As a member 
 of UNATCO, the terrorists you face at the beginning of the game are members of the U. S. s own 
 National Security Force. They seem to be in control of Ambrosia distribution in New York, and its 
 your duty to investigate their actions. 
  
  At the start of the game, you are sent to Liberty Island to raid an NSF base in an attempt to capture 
 one of their leaders and interrogate him about the Ambrosia shipments. Right off the bat you will 
 probably see what makes Deus Ex so unique and enjoyable: its open-endedness. Though you have an 
 objective, its completely up to you as to how you should go about completing it. The traditional 
 FPS guns blazing strategy is an option, as is a more covert, sneaking approach. In addition, 
 you can hack computers to turn off security systems, use lock picks to access secret areas, use 
 multitools to disable security keypads, and many more subtle strategies. All of these options are 
 controlled by what kinds of items you keep, what sort of skills you develop, and essentially, how 
 you choose to play the game. 
  
  In later missions, you may be able to take an alternate route underwater to reach your destination. 
 Once again, even this single alternate route has many different possible solutions. If youve worked 
 on your swimming skills, youll have no problem. But say you didnt make your character much of 
 a swimmer. Just because you have this limitation doesnt mean you cant use this swimming-oriented 
 route. If you have sufficient medical supplies and training, you could just swim the path, even 
 though youd run out of breath towards the end. Then you could heal your chest area and respiratory 
 system. Maybe medicines not your thing. If you have trained your environment skills high enough, 
 you could use a rebreather to make the long swim with enough oxygen. Even another option would 
 be to acquire the nano-augmentation (think Jedi force power) Aqualung, which allows you to hold 
 your breath longer underwater. Remember, these are all options to take one simple alternate path. 
 There could be any number of other alternate paths, each with their own possible options. In essence, 
 every situation you face will have a myriad of different options. From character creation to the 
 end of the game, there will always be another way to achieve your goals.
  
  As Deus Exs story progresses, youll see all sorts of twists and turns. Throughout the story, 
 youll travel to a number of different locations. You spend the first third or so of the game in 
 many different areas of New York. After that, youll travel to Hong Kong, Paris, underwater research 
 stations, even Area 51. Along the way, youll end up working for a number of different employers, 
 including yourself. All the while, youll uncover information about UNATCO, the NSF, as well as 
 internal corruption, the grey death and Ambrosia, and even the illuminati. In addition, youll 
 meet with mysterious characters such as Daedalus, Tracer Tong, and Walton Simons (voiced by Tom 
 Hall) , who all give depth to the story. 
  
  While you have an open-ended range of actions within individual missions, the grand scope of the 
 story is tied to linear roots. However, you still have a great impact on the story, and not only 
 the direction it takes, but the specifics of it as well. Other than the hundreds of NPCs youll 
 see throughout the game, a dozen or so of the major characters will live (often indirectly) based 
 on your actions. Finally, Deus Ex offers three different endings that, once again, stress the choices 
 you make and the way you play the game.
  
  Deus Ex is not an easy game. Most gamers will feel sufficiently challenged by the medium or difficult 
 settings. However, in my opinion, unless youre on realistic mode, the games difficulty is just 
 right. You should be able to pick up the basics of this FPS/RPG hybrid in under an hour. After 
 your first few missions, you should be able to analyze the situations youre thrust into and find 
 multiple solutions to them. Even if youre playing straight through, Deus Ex is surprisingly long. 
 Most gamers should finish Deus Ex in 20-40 hours, which is still quite lengthy for a shooter. However, 
 if you like to explore, read all the books and datacubes, simply take your time, or any other of 
 those qualities, youre more like me. For us, the willing and curious gamers, Deus Ex can easily 
 pass the 100-hour mark. At least for me, much of this time will be spent exploring alternate paths 
 while being amazed at how many more ways you could have done something that you originally thought.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  ---------------------
  Graphics:
  
  If there are any elements of Deus Ex that could be considered less than perfect, those would have 
 to be the graphics. At its initial release in 2000, Deus Exs graphics were stunning, and very 
 wide-ranging, leaving no object poorly rendered. People were prompted to upgrade their systems 
 with nearly the same fervor as when the 3D video card was first introduced in 1992. However, the 
 graphical standard in video games has changed drastically in 5 years. By todays standards, Deus 
 Ex is hideous and disgusting to even look at. However, Im going to give an objective look at Deus 
 Exs graphics, more from a 2000 perspective, while still remembering that it is 2005. 
  
  Though each object in Deus Ex is finely detailed, the textures are blocky, pixilated, and ugly 
 by the high standards set by modern games. The character textures, especially in the facial region, 
 are similarly basic and lacking sharpness. This is very noticeable when characters speak, or when 
 the camera zooms in close to a character (such as in the opening cinematic) . However, when you 
 are simply watching some guards walk around, or shooting at an enemy from afar, the graphics shouldnt 
 be too much of a hindrance.
  
  In the games many levels and areas, the graphical style is fitting and appropriate. The feel of 
 each of the locations you visit is unique and memorable. From industrial warehouses to commercial 
 office buildings to top secret government bases, each area is designed and created in such a way 
 that you, the player feel as though youre actually there. In addition, the games liberal integration 
 of color into the environment is a welcome change from the common post-apocalyptic, overly grayish 
 look that plagues many sci-fi games and movies (such as Deus Exs rather mediocre sequel)
  
  Regrettably, too many people have been spoiled by graphically intense games, such as Halo 2 
 and Splinter Cell. Hopefully, enough older gamers who still respect their 32-bit Atari games, or 
 newer gamers who arent so jaded, will be able to see the style in the graphics of Deus Ex, despite 
 the sharpness and realism that the technology at the time simply couldnt produce.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  --------------------
  Sound/Audio:
  
  Perhaps most overlooked in games 
 and movies alike, is the music and sounds that shape the environment. While Deus Exs music is 
 nowhere near an elaborate orchestral score, it is certainly better than that of some other older 
 games. Even classics such as X-Com: UFO Defense were plagued by music, which was described by Zach 
 Green as composed by a narcissistic bullfrog. However, Deus Exs music is stunningly well done; 
 give the resources available at the time. Though somewhat heavy on techno, it still changes fluently 
 to suit the current setting and mood. After a while, youll realize that Deus Ex also has a fairly 
 large repertoire of music to play. While no pop artists headline these tracks, they still project 
 the right feeling for this kind of game, and fit stunningly well with every situation that occurs. 
 
  
  The sound effects in Deus Ex are wider ranging, but also distinct and memorable. Each weapon has 
 its own sounds, which will become easily recognizable to you. After you get into the game, youll 
 hear the beeping of LAMs and the grinding of turrets, and know where everything is without even 
 having to look for it. 
  
  There is really only one major shortcoming with Deus Exs audio performance, and that is with the 
 voice acting. Today, we get famous actors and singers to speak are protagonists lines, but in 
 2000, generic voice acting was the best they could do. While all the main characters (such as Paul, 
 Anna, Gunther, Manderly, and everyone else at UNATCO) have distinct and recognizable voices, most 
 of the random NPCs do not. Even J. C. himself sometimes sounds too flat. However, it really is the 
 hundreds of assorted people on the streets who youll get sick of listening to. Though they have 
 a wide range of things to say and dialogue options, there seems to be no attempt to make them sound 
 believable. The missions in Hong Kong in particular, have sub-standard, almost racially insulting, 
 Chinese-accented voice acting. However, despite this minor source of irritation, the audio in Deus 
 Ex is memorable and well suited to its application.
  
  Sound/Audio: 9/10
  -----------------------
  Value:
  
  Despite being a spectacular game and winning the Game 
 of the Year award in 2000, Deus Exs status fell rapidly in the gaming community. Ion Storm continued 
 to spiral downward, and only managed to push out a mediocre sequel and another thief game. Now 
 Deus Ex is out of print (no new copies are being made) . While you may have difficulty finding 
 a good copy, you probably wont have to pay much for it when you do find it. Many older sound or 
 video cards come with a free version of Deus Ex, and the Game of the Year version is often packaged 
 with other software. Check your local bargain bins or game retailers. If they have it in stock, 
 you should be able to get Deus Ex from Electronics Boutique for $2-3. Thats not a typo. $2-3. 
 If you dont have any luck there, you can always try Amazon, eBay, or anywhere else online. Theyll 
 have copies; they just wont be as cheap as in most stores. Regardless, Deus Ex is an amazing game, 
 which I would happily pay $49.99 for all over again. Luckily for you, its now available in the 
 under $10 range.
  
  Value: 10/10
  ------------------------
  Tilt:
  
  I dont know what I can say about Deus Ex that will do this amazing game justice. From reading 
 this review, you should have a sense of just how spectacular this game is. As a result, Im tilting 
 Deus Ex as high as it can go: a perfect 10. Because of its shortcoming in the graphical and audio 
 departments, the total score will come out to slightly below a perfect 10. However, Deus Ex is 
 a masterpiece of a game, and is certainly worth your time. I recommend it more than any other game, 
 as I similarly place it above any other game. Truly, Deus Ex is the best game ever made.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  TOTAL SCORE: 9.8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalore_15
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:41 am PT
Review:  For me, Deus Ex was a game that really opened my eyes. Up until I'd played it, the only real games 
 I played were straightforward shooters such as Doom and Half-life. While these games were classics 
 in their own right, there was a hole in my gaming collection that only something new and different 
 could fill. Deus Ex fit the bill perfectly. With its superb, open ended storyline, great character 
 and weapon customization and immersive style of play, Deus Ex has remained one of my favourite 
 games to date.
  
  While Deus Ex's graphics and sound effects are sub-par by today's standards, the story being told 
 in the game is one of the best to date, and the open ended "do what you want" missions are incredibly 
 satisfying. I urge anyone who hasn't played this game to pick it up now (it'll probably be in the 
 bargain bin at your local games shop) . It'll be the best 5 you ever spent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aggie1295
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 18, 2005 6:11 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex is probably one of the best games I've played on the PC. It has a story that keeps you 
 interested and always wanting to play for just a little longer. It has been described as a hybrid 
 FPS/RPG, which is probably a good description. I think it leans a little more toward the FPS elements, 
 but I found that enjoyable. It took a little time to get used to the gameplay. Some of the earlier 
 levels were frustrating because it seemed like I could never shoot straight. But as the game progressed 
 and I improved my character's abilities, it got less frustrating and more interesting. The story 
 elements, although a mix of a lot of standard conspiracy theory stories, kept me wanting to keep 
 playing. I enjoyed wanting to see how the story would turn out. It also mixed in a lot of sneaker 
 elements as well as action elements to it. Overall, Deus Ex is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 4, 2005 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex is a sci-fi shooter that plays like an RPG in the way that you converse with the characters 
 in its future high tech universe.
  
  The gameplay is excellent. It is extremely easy to understand how to use all of your weapons, how 
 to open doors, which mission objectives you have to do, it is so easy to learn.
  The difficulty is variable.
  
  The graphics are a little outdated, but they still look pretty. 
 The faces don't have like, everything down to the pores on them, but they are still very realistic. 
 You can see people breathe in and out.
  
  The soundtrack is unbelieveably awesome. The techno tunes will stick with you forever. They always 
 seem fresh and appropriately placed in whichever level.
  
  This game is long. You could play it for dozens of hours.
  
  This game is the best shooter 
 I have ever played. It's better than Halo. It has a much better and more realistic story, way better 
 and adjustable difficulty settings, and it just is way less tedious to play. This is the ultimate 
 shooter.
  
  If you can still find this game and haven't played it, go and get it. It'll be the best $10 you 
 ever spent on a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2005 4:41 am PT
Review:  I first heard of Deus Ex.. somewhere. I got the full game on a Computer Gaming World CD and I must 
 say: this is pretty awesome, dude. Where did that come from? I'll get right to the stuff.
  
  The gameplay is interesting: a mix of FPS and RPG. You can choose who you want to kill and 
 what to say to them. But the ending is kinda limited. You can save the game before the end and 
 check out each ending, thats what I did. And its fun to go back through and say all the wrong things 
 to people just to hear what they'll say. The enemies arent even hard though, thats what I found 
 kinda disappointing. You can upgrade all the weapons to make them better. And if you know the cheat 
 codes you can become truly invincible.
  
  The graphics by todays standards arent even up to par. But for back then it was next generation. 
 There could have been a few more reflective surfaces to go around, but other than that, the game 
 really pulls off a dark futuristic feel. Even particle effects are null.
  
  The sound is clear, the voice acting at least doesnt stop for 5 seconds in between every word. 
 And you can customize you weapons to have silencers, although if it were in real life the silencer 
 might be heard from half-a-mile away. Its not in Dolby 5.1 bass quaking, which is good for those 
 of us who cant afford it. 
  
  The game actually lasted long enough for me to be interested. The first night I played it I reached 
 the third level and it was almost 11. Needless to say my mom was pissed. It kept me in touch with 
 what was going on. The storyline is believable in the fact that it can actually happen. Im not 
 saying it will. Augmentations wont happen in this generation.
  
  This game is definitely worth the buying price. Even if you buy it from the used bin. The fact 
 that it runs on Unreal technology is a plus also. This game is a must for any fan of FPSs. Or any 
 gamer for the matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 24, 2005 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This is by far an all time favorite of mine. THe graphics were superb and still not to shabby for 
 today. The Sound was very awesome. So real you almost could think a person was walking behind you 
 in your office while you played. The Character development was superb as well, the story did a 
 great job of developing all the major characters and let you explore in an almost open ended feeling. 
 The places you explored especially china town seem very interactive and lifelike. The story is 
 the main seller for this game, very few games have come up with a story line to match this one. 
 The sad part is the sequel didn't live up to the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 7, 2005 3:27 am PT
Review:  I played Deus Ex for the first time years ago but I recently revisited this game of mine to see 
 how the years have treated it and how it held up. Well Warren Spectors Masterpiece is still one 
 man sized game even if its not perfect. The Mix of story and gameplay makes this game decidedly 
 worth revisiting if youve played it before and if youve not picked this game up there is no reason 
 that you shouldnt pick it up. 
  First the bad, the graphics for this game were good at best when it came out. And frankly, they 
 have aged very poorly for a game thats merely five years old. Faces look ridiculous vacant for 
 instance, lip syncing was unheard of. Big things definitely look okay but details look terrible. 
 Not A big deal in the grand scheme of things but caveat emptor, if youre a graphics hound this 
 game will disappoint even by standards of games about the same age and even some older games will 
 look better. 
  The Audio in this game is also one that hasnt aged very well. It was well ahead of its time in 
 being a fully-voiced game. The sound effects though are middling at best. It has a terrible footstep 
 sound which does irritate at times especially if youre running on something like the marble floors 
 of Unatco, one of the games early hubs. The music for the game is forgettable but its a bit too 
 jumpy, it picks up when enemies are near but sometimes it registers enemies through walls as being 
 near which becomes a bit annoying. 
  The gameplay of this game is still better than just about anything else out there. You play as 
 JC Denton Bionic Commando whos got all kinds of special skills and such that lets him solve problems. 
 Notice that I said solve problems not kill people, yes killing people is one way to solve problems 
 but so is stealth, talking things through and chatting with people. Most every problem in the game 
 has multiple solutions, you can shoot out all the guards and just walk through or you can sneak 
 by guards, hack the security net and then get in and quietly accomplish your mission. I guarantee 
 you youll find a new way through this game on a second or third play through that you never though 
 of. On my 3rd time through the game I managed to discover I could make a major alteration to the 
 games plot at one point when I did something on accident. 
  The gameplay isnt without its problems though, there are quite a few levels that the game could 
 have done without and they clearly amount to some filler content. The stealth really isnt as good 
 as it ought to be and would be in a stealth game like Thief. That said the merging of stealth, 
 action and role-playing is a very nice mix. 
  Speaking of the games plot its exceptional. You begin the game working as a Peacekeeper at a 
 new UN peacekeeping force called Unatco. You start off taking missions to take down the terrorists 
 and without giving anything away you soon find out things arent what they seem and its up to 
 you to decide whom to trust. Further enhancing the game are several memorable characters on both 
 sides of the conflict. Some of these guys can be a bit archetypal and such and the games real 
 villain comes closer to a cartoon character than Id have liked but the characters on your side 
 are likable and several of them are very memorable, the protagonist included. 
  All in all if you dont have this game, you really need to find some way to get it. The combined 
 experience of all the features of this game are a lot better than any of the parts in isolation. 
 The First-Person Shooter- RPG that lets you sneak by guards isnt exactly put into a genre easily 
 but Ive got one for it: timeless classic game thats not been wholly surpassed at all in the last 
 5 years for an experience like Deus Ex. If youve got this game you really should come back to 
 it again as its definitely worth visiting yet again. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinx1000
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2005 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I played this game after Half Life, so I modified the keyboard and mouse controls to match Half 
 Life and stepped onto Ellis Island to begin.
  I liked the fact that you had to train and complete objectives to gain skill in the areas of your 
 choice (sharpshooting and computer hacking, thanks for asking) . The number of options available 
 to you for finding ways to improve your skills was exceptional as well; you simply had to explore 
 everywhere, including underwater, to find those extra opportunities. Plus you have the ability 
 to choose which augmentations you want use and expand upon, although it would have been nice to 
 have the option of using all of the available augmentations.
  Well thought out maps and lots of interaction with characters in the game made this an enjoyable 
 playing experience. You could either kowtow to an informer or tell them off, and it would affect 
 how you obtain your objective; even saving someone's life in the game could benefit you down the 
 road.
  Overall, because of the options you have available to you, a very re-playable game (and I have 
 re-played it a couple of times) and a fun experience. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teuvan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Not only is Deus Ex the perfect FPS/RPG hybrid, it is one of the best games of either genre that 
 I have ever played. Even after 5 years it is still as impressive as any newer game. RPG fans will 
 enjoy the character development, the story, and the wide range of NPCs that you can interact with. 
 FPS fans will enjoy the fast-paced action, the completely non-linear gameplay, and the large arsenal. 
 As for fans of both genres, you will be in heaven.
  
  You play as a futuristic government agent named J. C. Denton in a number of real-world locations 
 including New York, Tokyo, and Paris. The game is completely non-linear and there is almost always 
 more than one way to do something. It includes RPG elements such as character development, skills, 
 an inventory, many characters to interact with, missions, and a very Interesting story wrapped 
 together with the action and feel of an FPS. And while it may have come out 5 years ago, the graphics 
 are still quite good and there is full voice acting.
  
  There is a wide range of weapons to use as well, including the sniper rifle, shotgun, pistol, crowbar, 
 sword, along with variations of these weapons and heavy weapons such as the rocket launcher. As 
 I mentioned before, there is character development; but it isn't just some simple leveling system. 
 You gain skill points by completing goals and exploring areas rather than killing enemies, and 
 you can use those points to increase your effectiveness with certain weapons, tools, or abilities. 
 There are also special skills in the game that are not necessary, but will often help you. Stealth 
 also plays a major part in this game. You can of course simply fight your way through, but there 
 is usually a way around fighting. Your choices in the game will affect the story in major ways 
 as well.
  
  Overall, this is a great game for both FPS and RPG fans. If you want something different, are a 
 fan of either genre, or are simply looking for a great game, then pick this up. There is also Deus 
 Ex: Invisible War, the sequel to this. While it isn't nearly as good as the original, it is still 
 worth taking a look at if you become really Interested in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hadiz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2005 6:16 am PT
Review:  I first played deus ex when I got my sound card back in 2000, and it was one of a few games that 
 came with it. I had not heard a lot about it, so I was not stoked to give it a shot at the time. 
 However when I did get around to playing it, I was totally hooked. Between the genre-bending and 
 the excellent story and character elements and solid gameplay, this easily ranks up there as one 
 of my favorite games of all time. Here's why:
  
  Gameplay-
  
  If you're looking for the single best first-person shooter game, this is not it. If you're looking 
 for the single best stealth game, this is not it. If you're looking for the single best RPG, this 
 is not it. But you'll be hard pressed to find another game that blends the three to create the 
 type of experience it does. The game also forces you to use all three elements to overcome a situation. 
 Out of bullets for the pistol or shotgun? Try to sneak up and knock out your enemy, and check them 
 for ammo. No rocket launcher ammo to take out that camera or security grid? Look for the terminal, 
 break into it and disable them from there. By feeding you just the correct amount of ammunition, 
 weaponry or stealth items (lock picks, etc.) when needed, the game makes you use your head in order 
 to survive a scenario. There is also a heavy emphasis on knocking unconscious or stunning enemies, 
 rather than just blasting them all to bits. Sometimes the way people react to you will be different 
 if you were slightly too trigger happy and didn't put enough emphasis on using stealth. For example, 
 you will not be given an option to receive ammo in one situation after completing a mission, you 
 will be given tranq darts. All in all it does not affect the outcome of the game or alter any of 
 the endings, but should you choose to take the stun/stealth approach, it definitely makes this 
 game all the more challenging. The controls are fairly straightforward- the standard WASD/mouse 
 FPS setup, although of course this can be changed to your liking. 
  
  Graphics-
  
  Deus Ex uses the unreal engine. Obviously here in 2005, that is a bit dated. But still for it's 
 time it looked pretty darn good. Some of the animations like opening doors, pressing buttons, reloading, 
 etc. all look the same and are not too detailed, but this is easily overlooked. The level and character 
 design are excellent, and help add to the futuristic/sci-fi/global crisis theme of the game. I've 
 heard people complain about the games interface, that it covers too much of the screen and gets 
 in the way, but I would have to disagree there, I found it to be just right.
  
  Sound-
  
  The music and sound in Deus Ex is outstanding. Everything from the level music, sound effects 
 and voice acting are right on point. The music for the different levels really help to establish 
 the scenario, and will change if you are trying to sneak around and suddenly are noticed. I especially 
 like the voice acting done for the main character, JC Denton. His matter-of-fact methods of conversating 
 and dealing with people really bring the character to life. Excellent work across the board.
  
  Storyline-
  
  What can I say, this is easily the best story I've ever come across in ANY 
 videogame. Simply on the sheer depth and open-endedness of the game, the dialogue and back story 
 is enormous. It starts out you are a nano-augmented government agent, sent to reclaim portions 
 of a vaccine for a worldwide plague called the "grey death". As you progress along, you notice 
 a lot of questionable behavior in your organization, and let's just say there are much bigger forces 
 at play. The story also features several real-life conspiracies mixed in, but not overly much so 
 to seem paranoid.
  
  One thing worth mentioning is the replay value. You'll find after you play through the first time, 
 there are situations you can approach differently, and in doing so you will get different reactions 
 from the people involved. It's hard to understand without actually playing through, but trust me 
 people are still to this day finding new bits of dialogue and information here and there. In other 
 words, you'll definetly be playing through this one a second time, if not more.
  
  Difficulty-
  
  Deus Ex can be tough at first, because of the way it blends gameplay methods. 
 I myself gave up on it briefly, as even on easy I found the first level a bit hard. But trust me, 
 make it past that level and the plots thickens. You'll get used to the gameplay in no time and 
 will be a pro. As you progress further, you get into situations where ammo and/or health restoring 
 items are rare, but this is easier to deal with if you choose your augs properly.
  
  In closing, this is definetly a game you cannot afford to miss. Be patient with the first level 
 and getting accustomed, and you will be more than satisfied. Sadly, the follow-up which was released 
 3 years after the original was a major let down. But we can only hope that there is a third game 
 and it brings the series back up to the precedent that Deus Ex set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buster-sword
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  Of all the games I've reviewed, none have influenced me like Deus Ex. This game has to be my all-time 
 favorite hands-down. It rates in my mind above Halo and Half-Life, and that's saying something. 
 This game was indeed a revolutionary moment in the gaming world.
  
  The game's layout is this: it is the year 2049, and the world is ravaged by a deadly disease called 
 the Gray Death. No one knows much about the disease and only the rich can afford treatment for 
 it. The cure is called Ambrosia (the food of the gods) but the government calls is an urban legend. 
 The global agency called UNATCO (United Nations Anti-Terrorist Coalition) ensures the distribution 
 of Ambrosia to government agencies and key industries. That's where you come in...
  
  You are JC Denton, a newly graduated UNATCO agent who has just arrived at UNATCO headquarters on 
 Liberty Island, located and formed after a bombing on the Statue of Liberty. The organization blamed 
 was the NSF (National Seccesionist Forces) who are rebels against the current government and want 
 more rights for the people. The day you arrive also interestingly coincides with a raid on Liberty 
 Island by the NSF, and you are sent in alone to deal with the situation...
  
  However this is not as suicidal as it sounds, as you are one of the only two Nano-augmented agents 
 in the world, along with your brother Paul Denton, the first nano-augmented agent to graduate into 
 UNATCO. Your speed, strength, ability, and knowledge is far above any normal humans, but this also 
 raises jealousy from the mechanical-augmented agents at UNATCO, who had to undergo painful surgery 
 to aquire their abilities.
  
  You are given many choices with your missions, you can barge through the front guns blazing, or 
 your can covertly sneak through the back entrances, bypassing security systems, or maybe just blow 
 the door off its hinges?!! Any choice is yours, along with a customizable set of skills, ranging 
 from computer, lockpicking, electronics, swimming, heavy weapons, demolitions, pistols, low-tech, 
 and rifles.... the choice is yours on what to master. Also, you can find nano-augmentation canisters 
 to give your character new abilities at a slight cost of energy drain. These abilities range from 
 targeting, regeneration, combat strength, ballistics shield, speed enhancement, cloak.... and MANY 
 more! The array of weapons and tools is extremely impressive as well. Another very useful feature 
 is your datavault, where your memory digitally stores codes, information, key facts, and images 
 for ready access at any security terminal or door lock. You also have your nanokey ring where it 
 digitally stores codes for many doors in your journey.
  
  The story shines with originality and excitement, a new twist and plot around every corner. There 
 are many side-quests that will give you unexpected rewards, though maybe not immediately. For helping 
 a character you may receive a special password that will save you a great deal of trouble trying 
 to hack around it later. Monetary rewards are also received depending on how well you complete 
 your goal. Also the reactions will change depending on if you decide to kill a person or let him 
 live and see his side of the story. There are many ways on how you can complete the game, and there 
 are many endings to the game as well.
  
  If you are interested about this game, then don't hesitate to get it, it is a truly spectacular 
 game and should not miss out on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streetrider9873
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2005 5:00 am PT
Review:  (Keep in mind that even though I am reviewing this game 2005, I am using year 2000 standards)
 
  
  This game is what got me into gaming. It was the first game that I truly loved, and the first game 
 that I have ever completed. From the moment I created my character I was thrown into a game with 
 nonstop action and superb gameplay never before so well executed. You play in the shoes of a half 
 robot, half man; that is unearthing a conspiracy with twists so great it will keep your heart beating 
 until the credits.
  Being a man/robot is cooler than you think. You get the abilities of a person, (walking, running, 
 shooting, dying, duh!) but you also get these cool abilities that either enhance some specific 
 skills or give you completely new abilities. For instance you can upgrade sniper skills to have 
 a steadier hand while sniping, or you can create lock-picking skills where you don't have to use 
 as many lockpicks to open a door.
  The environments are amazing and all the people are so interactive that it truly takes you out 
 of reality and makes you think that this is the real deal. The graphics are amazing and everything 
 feels so real. The voice acting is great and the people as though they are real.
  One of my favorite aspect about this game is that you are never always in the state of peril. For 
 instance early on in the game, there is a fight on the Statue of Liberty. At the time I thought: 
 okay, I'll kill these guys, next level. But instead you go to your base where you can heal, and 
 be in friendly environments all in the same level. It is a great relief to the action and gives 
 this game an even more realistic feel.
  Overall this game is pure genius and really amazing. It is one of the only games I would ever replay 
 (it has three completely different possible endings) and is still to date, one of my most favorite 
 games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealok
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2005 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Despite having its share of flaws, Deus Ex is one of the finest games released in the year 2000. 
 Using the UT engine, it looked slightly dated when it was released, and it barely passes for quaint 
 in the current flock of shooters. Nonetheless, the graphics do an adequate job telling their tale, 
 and that's what you paid for. Deus Ex is a complicated story told around the experiences of a cybernetically 
 enhanced agent named JC Denton. He works for a government peace group which is, as you might imagine, 
 corrupt and evil. The plot is more linear than I would like, but the journey takes some wonderful 
 twists and turns as it streams along its path. 
  
  Every level has a number of solutions, and while they usually fall into either the sneak around/guns 
 blazing schools of gameplay, every choice makes the game more of an individual experience. A further 
 level of personalization comes from the skill selection that determines your character's pluses 
 and minuses. 
  
  You have a discrete amount of points to allocate to certain skills, and your choices will dictate 
 how you play through the game. If you focus on sniping and hacking, you are going to play a very 
 different game from someone who focuses on, say, heavy weapons and first aid. Finally, you personalize 
 you character with nano-augmentations. The aug system is a clever ploy to further invest you in 
 your character. Each body part has a viable aug slot, but it can only hold one aug. You choose 
 which aug you want installed, and that is your choice for the rest of the game. By the end of the 
 game, few people will have the same JC Denton. 
  
  The game does, sadly, possess more problems than its merely-adequate graphics. The inventory interface, 
 for starters, is a mess. It uses an item management system similar to Diablo; while it works in 
 terms of game balance, it is a design fiasco, and it slows gameplay down considerably. In addition, 
 the action in the game is hardly heart-stopping. Again, it works on a lot of design levels, but 
 the simple fact is that combat in this game is rarely fun, regardless of your mastery with your 
 weapon. It's not BAD, but firefights aren't as exhilarating as they are in, say, the No One Lives 
 Forever games. 
  
  Nonetheless, the story behind Deus Ex is rewarding enough to forgive almost any of the game's transgressions. 
 WIthout a doubt, this is one of the most cerebral and in-depthly researched games to come about 
 in a long while. It's thought-provoking and powerful. There aren't many games I would hold to the 
 legacy of Planescape: Torment in terms of writing, but Deus Ex is right next to P: T, I kid you 
 not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgarribaldi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  ( Just a quick update to say that this game runs perfectly on Windows Vista Ultimate. Just goes 
 straight on and runs! )
  
  This game is about the best I have played to date in this genre. The atmosphere is superb and really 
 puts across the 'dark' feel of the story line. Conspiracy theory and diverse political opinions 
 have been incorporated with careful neutrality, a thin veil over the true opinions of the individual 
 player. Talking to the characters in this game beyond the cut-scenes reveals a lot of extra interesting 
 dialogue. Character interaction is essential and will change the game play thread based upon your 
 conversation strategy. There are MANY ways to complete this game and many different ways to achieve 
 objectives within it.
  
  Over all game play is very good and there is some good realistic feedback to the player, especially 
 when using heavy weapons.
  My one small gripe is that I found the long range sniper detection to be a little flaky. Hitting 
 someone in the SIDE of the head when they are NOT wearing a helmet does NOT result in the object 
 target going "ouch" and then proceeding to fire on you. It usually results in the object target's 
 DEATH! However that is my only complaint, over all this game has been very well programmed and 
 the Unreal Engine has been put to very good use indeed.
  
  Graphically the game is very well designed and helps to put across the aforementioned 'dark' feel 
 which, together with the sound effects, music and a moderately intelligent AI, makes for a very 
 enjoyable game play experience.
  
  Now if only somebody would make a film 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2004 10:23 am PT
Review:  You will be suprised that there are multiple endings that can result by your choises within the 
 game.
  
  This is not just a action FPS but a mix of FPS and RPG as you develop your character to how you 
 want to proceed through the game. You can make him expert hacker with a knowledge of lock picking 
 or concentrate on weapons, stealt and strength. Using mods with an enhanced part man machine you 
 can design yourself. Picking up biocanisters and as you are rewarded with points for exploration 
 and missions you develop the skill you need. The graphics were excellent as far as I am concerned 
 and the sounds were well thought out.
  I had many options with the weapons as you not only get a weapon but can modify them to suit your 
 desires and needs.
  
  The story was supberb using already know conspiracies with some creativity I was a believer. You 
 know there had to be a sequel to this game and I looked forward to it. What is going to happen 
 to JC denton ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2004 12:22 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex is a game which did not have the best AI and had some technical issues which affected its 
 performance; however, despite all these shortcomings, it still is an immersive, challenging, and 
 astounding game  probably the best game I have ever played. It successfully blends elements from 
 different genres  such as FPS, adventure and RPG  and provides a unique open-ended experience. 
 There are always more than one way to complete an objective and the choices one makes in shaping 
 the main character will often determine the path of the player and thus affect the total experience 
 of the game. These choices blend seamlessly with Deus Exs cyber-punk style story where there 
 are more shades of grey rather than clear distinctions between black and white. In fact, this story 
 is by far one of the greatest stories ever to be conceived in a game. It is told exceptionally 
 well as the monotonous voice-acting of the main character does not take the player out of the game; 
 moreover, the length  which may run over 40 hours  is just right as it eases one into the storys 
 unfolding events and gives the player time to take it all in. Furthermore, Deus Ex has a terrific 
 techno soundtrack. The combat is best in its realistic setting and is satisfactorily implemented. 
 The skill system and the weapons upgrading system is one of the many enjoyable features of the 
 game that gives it a feel of complexity worthy of a pc masterpiece.
  
  On the other hand, there are some issues: the AI is not consistent (which often can be absolutely 
 terrible) , graphical difficulties that affect frame rates, and other various technical problems. 
 In its time one would have to have a hefty machine to run it. I actually had to upgrade my video 
 card specifically for this game when I first bought it  and Im glad I did. However, none of these 
 issues affect the overall experience. It would have been appreciated if these glitches were not 
 present, but the positive attributes outweigh the negatives by such a great quantity that it does 
 not matter that much.
  
  Deus Ex is the game that made me want to learn about hardware so that my pc would be up to date; 
 it is also the reason that I visit game websites hoping for news of a game that has the same magic. 
 Deus Ex is easily the greatest experience in a game that I have ever had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mauro_Rosati
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2004 10:03 am PT
Review:  I've played this game some years ago and now I want to share my impression with all of you.
  It was very awaited for several reason: the cyperpunk world, the RPG statistics (you earn experience 
 points to spend for imroving you skill such as SWIMMING, HACKERING and other sever skills) , the 
 body implants through bio-mods to improve strenght, hackering skills and much much more, if I start 
 to talk about the features of this great game It'd take one year, and I didn't mention multiple 
 finals depending on what you do decide to what side you want to follow. The game looks like a FPS, 
 but in short can be considered a real RPG with FPS visual. During the game and earning experience 
 point (as I told you in the introduction) you can improve also the use of light weapons or master 
 heavy weapons such as Flamethrower and Missile launcher ( in the game called RPG launcher or some 
 like that, not i don't rember, even because I'm italian, so I've played the italian version and 
 I don't know the real english name, apart pistols or Assault Rifle) .
  So, cyperpunk, bio-mods implants, open-ended game, RPG skills system, hacking, killing, and much 
 more, Do I have to add something else to convince you to buy it?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsharkhunter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2004 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok let's get one thing straight here, this is quite simply one of the best RPG's or FPS's ever 
 made. I picked this up a few weeks ago, and I had to get used to the poor graphics quality; but 
 once I did, I saw the true genius that was put into this game.
  
  So it's about 2054 AD and the world government is collapsing. The US's Statue of Liberty was attacked 
 by terrorists, and the head came down (ala 9-11-2001) . This symbolized how chaotic things were 
 getting. So these two men, Walton Simmons and Bob Page are seen in the beginning sequence talking 
 about how they have a plan to rule the world, since it's pretty the ideal time to do so. You're 
 this guy whos code name is "J. C. Denton" and you begin work at UNATCO (United Nations Anti-Terrorist 
 Coalition) , a part of the government that spans the globe dealing with international terrorists. 
 Your brother, Paul Denton, is a veteran at UNATCO who kinda helps you fit, but he starts to make 
 his own decisions, and you will too. The world economy is crumbling, there's a spreading plague 
 called "The Grey Death", and there's a whole conspiracy that the government has control of the 
 vaccine.
  
  Gameplay 9 - In this FPS-RPG hybrid, you make real decisions that actually affect the game a lot. 
 Whether it's saving a life, doing one objective rather than another, or deciding to work for someone 
 else, there are many ways to play this game. The only downside to the gameplay is that the AI pretty 
 bad, and the action is not so great. You have to upgrade your abilities to become good at some 
 things, such as aim or hacking computers, but the aim initially takes way too long to get small, 
 and you have to wait for your crosshair to get small enough to be accurate. But otherwise, there 
 are many new gameplay elements that work well with the game.
  
  Graphics 8 - This is where the game really lacks, the graphics are bad. Oh well, you'll forget 
 about them anyway, since you'll have so much fun with the game, so it won't even matter.
  
  Sound 9 - The voice is pretty good. JC is a little monotone, like Keanu Reeves. Other than that, 
 the music fits pretty well, and the voices are believable.
  
  Value 10 - There are so many ways to complete this game, and there's a mulitplayer. This game will 
 last you a while, it's a fairly long single-player. The reason that there's so many ways to beat 
 the game is because of all the decisions that affect the game. So you'll go back and see "What 
 would've happened if I said this... or did this... etc.".
  
  Tilt 10 - Best story in a game, ever. This will really make you rethink or even hate the government. 
 This is a game that can be talked about on MSNBC or Hardball, it's very political and very controversial. 
 If you play this game, you'll understand.
  
  Pros - Amazing story. You'll play this game over and overm finding out new things to do. Characters 
 are deep and believable.
  
  Cons - Graphics, JC's voice, the action.
  
  It's worth playing this game even after 4 years of its release. Better than Invisible War. A hard 
 game to forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  Deus Ex is a tale of suspense and conspiracy that will have you thinking which side is telling 
 you the truth. It puts you in a depressing future where the government could be your worst enemy 
 and your enemy may be your best friend. Taking inspiration from Cyberpunk, The Matrix and William 
 Gibson, Deus Ex surprises you with the way that it can meld three distinctly different genres into 
 a cohesive game. 
  
  In Deus Ex, you play as JC Denton, an new type of nano-enhanced soldier that has been enlisted 
 by UNATCO for global law enforcement. JC Denton, and his brother Paul, are the first generation 
 of this kind of soldier. They have been brought online to replace the older cybernetically enhanced 
 soldiers that are now considered obsolete. UNATCO is a newer version of todays United Nations 
 that is responsible for global security and law enforcement. Some feel this is a problem and have 
 stood up to fight UNATCO. Your journey in the story takes you from New York to Japan and even to 
 Area 51, all in the search of whether you are part of a legal enforcement agency, or something 
 more sinister.
  
  As stated above, Deus Ex is unique in the fact that it is not a conventional game. It blends the 
 best of three genre types to make a cohesive game that is very enjoyable. It starts with a great 
 adventure story that weaves in plot threads from terrorism and global plague, to the Illuminati 
 and secret organizations built for power like Majestic-12. It is a meaty story that is thick with 
 suspense and style. You will be given multiple visions of the truth, leaving you to make choice 
 as to what is right or wrong. It is also a basic RPG in that you have stats that you can enhance 
 with skill points. You earn points by completing goals or for exploring secret locations. These 
 skills are not too complex, but they allow you to craft a character that will rush in guns blazing 
 or sneak in the shadows and use the computer to hack their way through the enemy defenses. The 
 final genre is the FPS. The game is presented in an first person view and allows for a fully destructible 
 environment. Shoot a window and it will break. Bash a door and it falls apart. It makes the game 
 feel more, in your face and real whish completes the game and gives it an identity.
  
  Even with the game being nearly seven years old, it holds up quite nicely in the graphics department. 
 The models are varied and there is a sense of individuality that most games just blow past. Character 
 models are given a good amount of detail for the Quake II engine and it allows for nice touches 
 like seeing you character in the a mirror. Environments are given a touch of individuality as well. 
 Going into Hells Kitchen is a journey into a run down neighborhood that has the feel of despair 
 and no hope. Whereas going into the Majestic-12 facility, you see opulence and dcor that would 
 of cost a fortune to create. It gives the locations diversity and freshness that makes you notice 
 the details. The cut scenes are also rendered in game so you are never taken out of the action. 
 Cut scenes that dont jar you out of the action keep the game flowing and keep you immersed. It 
 is a practice that is done quite often now, but it was one of the first games that had attempted 
 it and it pays off quite nicely.
  
  Sounds in the game are good for the most part. Weapons have a good sound and give you a nice sense 
 of feedback. The bellowing thunder of a explosive round from a GEP gun will make you smile. The 
 dialogue on the other hand is a bit off. Most voices sound generic and bland. Beyond the main characters, 
 you dont feel that anyone put effort into recording dialogue. They just sound cold and without 
 emotion. The main characters, JC and Paul, should sound like that since they are computerized soldiers, 
 but an eight year old kid should sound full of life. Even in the disparity that people are suffering, 
 you still feel that people would have more emotion in their voice, but it is all a staccato delivery 
 that just feels a bit eerie at times. The background music is sparse but fits the game with its 
 futuristic sound. I did like the ambient sounds in the game. They added to the suspense, especially 
 when you were in darkened areas. There were many areas like this, where the sounds have you on 
 the edge of your seat and even looking over your shoulder. They help with immersing you into the 
 world.
  
  Beyond bringing a new type of merged game experience, the game features some other ground breaking 
 items and mechanics. Physics are actually brought into play in this game. When a box of TNT explodes, 
 you will actually travel up a hallway. No longer are blast patterns round or circular. If you just 
 sit at the end of a hallway and shoot TNT, are you considered safe. That explosion will travel 
 down the hallway and light you up faster than gasoline on the barbeque. It is a small detail, but 
 adds to the realism. Also, the idea of building up skills in a FPS is a diversion from the norm. 
 It allows the player to play their game, not just what the developer wants, and this is where the 
 game really shines.
  
  Choices, choices and more choices for you to make in your quest to finish the game. Do you hack 
 your way through the enemy defenses, or maybe stealth your way in? Why not snipe some bad guys 
 while clearing your path to the objective. Or just run and gun your way through the level. It is 
 all up to you and the choices you decide to make. You will have so many ways to proceed in the 
 game, which in turn makes it so much more enjoyable. When you can play a game with your style of 
 play, it is bound to suck you into the experience. Ion Storm and Warren Spector have brought about 
 a new style of gameplay that has changed the way an FPS should be made. 
  
  The game is solid with few flaws. The biggest issue that most people may have with the game is 
 that all the choices you have made in the game really have no effect on the multiple endings that 
 you are given to choose from. The ending actions are only dictated by your actions in the final 
 areas of the game. This is a bad move for a game that has you making continuous moral decisions. 
 Also, beyond some clipping glitches and the occasional audio hiccup, the game has no technical 
 flaws that will stop you from enjoying the game. The only big problem that people have reported 
 is that dual core processors are problematic until you turn off the affinity on one of the processors. 
 If you do not have the Gold version, make sure to patch up as it fixes most of the outstanding 
 issues that were there upon release. 
  
  Deus Ex is a masterpiece of a game. It offers a new and exciting style of play that has now been 
 integrated by most FPS designers. It gives you a diverse world to play in while giving you so many 
 ways to find the end of the path. It allows all players to find their niche and play the game in 
 their comfort zone. It is a thrill ride that is filled with so many ideas and possibilities that 
 will keep you guessing whether you are on the side of good or evil. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2004 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I love my FPS games, especially online shooters, and while I enjoy RPGs, there's very few that 
 hook me, but when they do, I can't get enough. The same goes for single player FPS, I rarely ever 
 run through an entire single player FPS, but every once and a while, that rare gem of a game comes 
 along. Well, this game fits into both of those categories, it's an FPS/RPG that has me completely 
 hooked.
  
  I had heard a lot about this game, and always wanted to play it, then at the start of my reading 
 week, I found out that my roomate had a copy, so I grabbed it from him, installed it, and haven't 
 stopped since. Even 4 years later the game feels revolutionary because I've never played anything 
 quite like it. I think that the reviewer of this game totally missed the point. It's sad to see 
 a game like this slip under the radar because the review doesn't do it justice.
  
  The gameplay is amazing and it (along with the compelling story) is the driving force in this game. 
 When I've been spoiled by graphics of games like Far Cry, Doom 3, etc, and I look at the graphics 
 of this game, it has no relevance, because the gameplay is just so much fun, it blows most everything 
 else out of the water. At the start of the game, you pick up everything with no worries, but by 
 the middle of the game, your inventory starts getting stacked to the point where you have to make 
 choices about what you want to keep. How you choose to play will effect what you keep. That's what 
 makes this game the amazing thing that it is... how you choose to play. When it comes to this, Deus 
 Ex shines. There's no way to describe all the possibilities, you have to experience it to understand 
 it. At first, your conditioning from other games will prevent you from experimentation, because 
 we've been indoctrinated by linear game play to assume that there is a way each puzzle must be 
 overcome. As you tread through the game, you'll start to notice those chains lifting away as you 
 play through it how you want to, not how some game developer has intended you to. You would think 
 that the RPG elements of the game are just icing on the cake, but they really enhance the experience. 
 You can't max out your characters abilities, so you'll find yourself investing in the abilities 
 that pertain to you.
  
  Now the game isn't without its problems, the stealth is far from perfect, but the enemy AI which 
 isn't the most amazing I've ever seen, makes up for that. It sounds like a bad thing, but it actually 
 makes for a less frustrating game that is constantly moving forward. The graphics and sound as 
 stated before aren't really awe inspiring, but no bother, you totally forget about it, as the game 
 immerses you through its amazing gameplay and compelling story.
  
  Bottom line, if you still haven't played this game, it's not too late, this game is amazing and 
 worth whatever hoops you jump through to grab it. You'll see where so many games have borrowed 
 from Deus Ex, and then some. Go play it now!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2004 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The other reviews note what the game is really great at: upgradable abilities, immersive and large 
 levels, and multiple ways of accomplishing mission goals. The game is all of those things.
  
  It has some faults too: 
  
  The game seems to promise that your decisions in each level 
 will affect the next level you visit, but that is only very rarely the case. 
  
  Some of the plot developments are too quickly resolved, as if the game developers cut things from 
 the game in order to release it (though the story-line is very good over all) .
  
  The graphic engine is perfectly fine but a bit washed out and bland-looking on several levels.
 
  
  The best level of the game, Hong Kong, is so much better than any of the other levels, you realize 
 that the game could have been truly amazing if more levels were like that one.
  
  Other games in the same genre are better, like System Shock 2, but this game holds its own. 
 
  
  Unfortunately the sequel to Deus Ex is quite disappointing: stay away from it if you can.
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2004 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex is a classic among PC gamers it is in almost every PC gamers top 5 games of all time if 
 not a lot of gamers favorite game of all time. The reason is because it has some of the best open 
 ended gameplay ever in a game and probably the best story ever for an action game except for maybe 
 Mafia.
  
  Graphics: Deus Ex uses the Unreal 1 engine. They probably could of gotten a little more out of 
 this engine and the graphics could of been a little better. The character models were not very 
 detailed and the character animation wasnt that great. Overall the graphics are acceptable and 
 dont detract from the game at all. The game world is so huge that you have to expect that they 
 couldn't go all out on the graphics at the time this game was released.
  
  Sound: The music is good and the ambient sounds are well done. The sound effects however aren't 
 the best. For example hitting a basketball with club makes a metal clinging sound. Little out of 
 place sound effects such as that and the weapon sounds are just average. Again this doesnt detract 
 from such a great game.
  
  Gameplay: This makes Deus Ex such a great game that it is. You play as JC Denton a genetically/biomod 
 enhanced human. The game is an RPG/FPS hybrid and it is done exceptionally well. The RPG elements 
 are leveling up your skils such as shooting, lockpicking etc.. You also can level up your biomods 
 which are genetically enhanced super abilities. Some of these are really fun and also useful such 
 as cloaking abilities, better running, super strength etc.., Where Deus Ex really shines is the 
 great story and the open ended way that you can play it. You will be drawn into a very confilicting 
 conspiracy story with many factions tugging at you for your support. You can chose throughout the 
 game who you want to align yourself with or with no one at all! The choices you make throughout 
 the game will effect events and the outcome of the game. There are 3 different possible endings 
 and you will want to see them all which adds replay value to an already long game. It will probably 
 take you anywhere from 20 - 45 hours to complete the game dependning on how much exploring and 
 time you want to take. You can go where you want and go about the game in any manner that appeals 
 to you. This is the main attraction to the game, that you are free to basically do want you want. 
 It is done incredibley well. The many different weapons and gadgets will help you through your 
 mission. There are so many characters in the game some that will help you a lot such as your brother 
 and then there of course will be your enemies that will be trying to stop you. The story is just 
 incredible filled with tons of dialogue and the open ended gameplay makes Deus Ex a classic and 
 great game that is still 4 years later easy to pick up and play again. Recommened for every gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 20, 2004 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Game designer Warren Spector is known for establishing the genre of stealth-action and role-playing 
 hybrids with games like the System Shock and Thief. His next game, Deus Ex, takes the concept of 
 hybrid to a new level, adding more role-playing elements, characters who react surprisingly accurately 
 according to how you have been playing, and a complex plot with many different parts to the end. 
 The storyline of Deus Ex is a decent techno-thriller set in near future: an underground group NSF 
 believes that a disease Gray Death is spread purposefully to eliminate the underclass, and you 
 as the second nanotech-enhanced goverment agent have to stop them hijacking the shipments of cure, 
 Ambrosia. You get to take sides and uncover the motivations of all organizations. Another feature 
 that separates Deus Ex from the pack is how the game registers many of your actions and gives appropriate 
 feedback, mostly through dialogue: for example your boss would be mad at you if you killed a target 
 instead of capturing, or will also tell you not to go to ladies' bathroom again, had you been there. 
 However, the most important choices are the ones you get to make while actually playing the game's 
 missions, and that is where Deus Ex excels even further. The levels are big but separated into 
 nicely distinguished areas and designed offer several approaches to almost any building or place 
 of interest. For instance, a base in the game can be approached by swimming underwater and silently 
 taking out all guards, by hacking computers to turn off most of the security cameras or turrets 
 and then sneaking in, or by disregarding stealth altogether and just shooting everybody on your 
 way in. Besides the seeming open-endedness, more immersion is added by the fact that all events 
 take place in real-world future locations (Liberty Island of New York, Hong Kong, Paris underground 
 club) and that many things in the gameworld work (a cigarette or soda machine pops out products, 
 ATMs are hackable, water can be drunk from faucets etc.) like they do in real life. Deus Ex has 
 in many ways benefited from features of great RPGs: there is a great deal of additional information 
 for the plot available through newspapers, other characters, optional sidequests and enemy dialogue, 
 toolbelt for quick use of certain items, augmentations to your character which are similar to magic 
 spells etc. In which of the 11 skills and augmentations you decide to invest your experience points 
 matter a lot, for your stronger areas would become your preferred choices of action. Just for information, 
 it is possible to complete the whole 30-hour adventure by killing only FOUR people, all of them 
 to advance the plot. Lastly, Dentons torso, head and each four limbs have their own health meters; 
 damaging any of the body-parts has direct effect on JCs capabilities (hand  aiming, leg  movement 
 speed etc) . Naturally a game as ambitious as this has a few flaws, most having to do with the believability 
 of the world. The enemy AI is unrealistic in a way that when you attack a certain guard but fail 
 to kill him, he will know exactly where you are, even if you snipe him from afar from a complete 
 darkness. Also, guards step over their dead colleagues like dirty laundry, and they tend to forget 
 very easily that they ever saw you - but that forgetfulness is probably there to outdo the first 
 problem. The other major flaw, placement of goodies, makes us compare Deus Ex with Half-Life where 
 all weapon upgrades, medikits and other items were in plausible locations. Levels of Deus Ex are 
 unselectively filled with important datapads and top secret emails lying openly on tables for everyone 
 to read, breakable crates full of supplies lying on the streets, lockpicks, multitools, and nanokeys 
 in sewers, medikits behind trashcans, etc. You can also take people's property without them saying 
 anything. Still, Deus Ex is one of the truest single player experiences, after playing which it 
 might be very hard to return to regular shooters.
  
  19/20 - Based on : 10 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - The ambitious project and how well it has been followed through is admirable. 
 Unreal Engine was used.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Nothing new for who have played FPSs/RPGs before. However, there are lots of 
 character development decisions to be made without knowing what exactly to expect.
  3/4 PACING - Although the open-ended areas and plot threads etc are fantastic, in my opinion they 
 do not vary enough to be interesting for the whole 30 hours.
  4/4 INNOVATION - A good example how to achieve new gaming heights with technologies of which none 
 is super-groundbreaking.
  4/4 IMMERSION - Occasionally as immersive as games get nowadays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerofc3
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 17, 2004 8:59 am PT
Review:  Ok, I have no Idea what GS was on not to give this game a 9 or higher at least. Ok yes this is 
 the BEST GAME EVER (in my opinion, and if you like shooters and RPGs, you'll agree with me,) so 
 why then did I not give it a 10? Well the Graphics in the game are well done, characters at a distance 
 are blurred alittle bit to make them look smother and more realistic, but up close the character 
 models look pretty bad. BUT we all know graphics aren't everything, they help, but still aren't 
 everything. For example Doom 1 & 2 are better than Doom 3. 
  
  The greatest thing about this game is the story, yeah it's better than 99% of the best movies out 
 there. Not to mention complete freedom to choose your own path, kill just about anyone you want 
 whenever you want (except guys like your pilot, but no biggie,) You can pick up just about anything, 
 you upgrade your skill throughout the game (that's the RPG aspect,) and Headshots Kill... that 
 needs to be in EVERY game. Ok here's my breakdown for my scoring:
  
  Gameplay: Perfect... so many options to choose from, all the items are usable one way or another... 
 everything works great.
  
  Graphics: 9, I went over that already.
  
  Sound: AWESOME MUSIC!!! It's perfect
  
  Value: With all the different paths you can choose 
 added with the fun factor of this game, you'll end up playing it through like 4 times the first 
 year you get it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: There never was a game like this, and hasn't been one since. Someone needs to 
 tell all these game companies to mimic this one.
  
  Conclusion: Just buy the game, it's like $10 and like I said if you like shooters and RPGs... you'll 
 love this game to the grave. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 14, 2004 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Deus Ex (DX) is without a doubt one of the best computer games of all time - i know i sound like 
 one of those aggrivating fanboy's, but its true. Anyone would be hard pressed to find more then 
 a few minor faults in DX.
  
  DX puts you in the role of JC Denton, trenchcoat wearing augmented special agent for a government 
 body called UNATCO (United Nations Anti Terrorist Coalition) . You start the game doing jobs for 
 them, feeling initially feeling like 'Hitman' or 'Soldier Of Fortune'. Fairly quickly, the game 
 evolves into the best story driven action adventure ever to grace a computer hard drive in the 
 form of a fully playable game.
  
  The game takes place through a first person perspective, using the original Unreal engine. At this 
 point in time, the Unreal engine may seem a little outdated, but if you can ignore some slightly 
 more boxy than usual character models, you will eventually be fully transported into the world 
 of DX. All character conversation is totally spoken by surprisingly good voice actors, and the 
 musical score is nothing short of brilliant. The music even switches pace based on what is currently 
 going on in the game, getting loud and frantic for a gunfight and slow and subtle for times that 
 your creeping around corners.
  
  Gameplay in DX is a mix of a common FPS and a common RPG. You have an inventory system and experience 
 system, and you have your first person view of the world. You can upgrade your skills with weapons 
 or with hacking computers, and you can add nano-upgrades to give yourself special abilities. This 
 mix of FPS and RPG seems to come off perfectly in DX, except in a few small instances when you 
 know you shot someone in the head but he doesnt die because your skill with that particular weapon 
 is too low.
  
  The real way that DX gets you so totally involved in its world is through two main things, the 
 story and the open ended world.
  
  The gameworld doesnt limit you to 1 set way to accomplish a goal. Generally, you are given several 
 tasks to complete before the story signifigantly moves along, that all mold into a solid experience 
 with never too much talking or fighting. You can choose to accomplish these goals almost entirely 
 of your own freedom - Sneak in, Talk your way in, Blast your way in, or maybe even avoid going 
 in altogether and come up with another way to accomplish your goal. This free-form gameplay is 
 evident throughout almost the entire game, with only a few exceptions that are necessary to keep 
 the story intact. And the few points where you have no choices often play out in a way that based 
 on what the other characters say and do, you would have made the choice you were forced into anyway.
 
  
  The story is a real peice of work. In DX you arn't playing to see the next kind of bad guy, or 
 get that super cool BFG 9000, your only reason for playing is to continue with the intriguing plot. 
 The story revolves around several current and older conspiracy theories, including the Majestic 
 12 and the Illuminati (The eye on the pyramid on the one dollar bill...) Eventually you will come 
 to see what is actually going on in the near future world of DX, and start trying to find out all 
 the facts of what is going on, which is all based on current day theories, thus making the game 
 that much more engaging.
  
  All the characters in DX have plenty of background to them, which you can choose to find out more 
 on or just ignore, as well as plenty of reactions to things you didnt know would effect the game. 
 For example, i went into the ladies room at the begining of the game, and much later on ran into 
 the same woman again, who introduced me as the guy she met in the bathroom. Although some of these 
 details dont effect the game much, some can seriously alter it. Killing main characters mildly 
 alters the story, which by the way can end in 4 different ways. (One of them being a secret ending 
 which is more humorous then story related)
  
  If you play through the game only doing what you think should be done, you might not even be involved 
 with half the story. In DX, exploring not only rewards you with extra items and weapons, but with 
 thought provoking story details. There are many extra NPCs with which you can interact with along 
 the side, which makes DX's world feel all the more living.
  
  DX has been the most fun game i've played to date, with great replay value as you can try doing 
 things differently each time and get an almost entirely different game in the end. Now that you 
 can find this game as a bargain title in a GOTY form, i reccommend you pick it up even if your 
 only a casual FPS or RPG fan, and even if you have no interest in conspiracies, because the game 
 just comes together so well. 
  
  DX deserved every award it won, and then some. And i think it also deserves to be played by everyone 
 who considers themself a gamer. I highly reccommend this title to everyone, regardless of video 
 game preferences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xan1234
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 25, 2004 10:52 pm PT
Review:  deus ex revolutionized what a fps should and should not be. deus ex differs from all fps' to date 
 with its open-ended environments and its 'pick your path' type gameplay. There is something here 
 for everything. You want to 'Terminate' every enemy u see. Do it. u wanna sneak past every enemy, 
 do it. there is an immensly deep story which twists and turns depending on what choices are made 
 while playing. npc's will react to how many enemies u have killed, reward u bonus money when u 
 save an innocent etc. This game has something for everyone. If u haven't played Deus ex before. 
 GO OUT AND BUY IT ASAP. the new deus ex does not do its original justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-Dog
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 24, 2004 8:36 am PT
Review:  Reviewing a game a while after playing is a strange experience. But a game of this calibre deserves 
 a review so I feel I must give it a try.
  
  Deus Ex was first released in 2000 and showed us how two genre's could be melded together and combined 
 with a great story and atmosphere to create something pretty unique and very enjoyable.
  
  The graphics were not mind-blowing but it has an excellent futuristic atmosphere and a world filled 
 with interactive people - should you save someone or take part in their murder? Should you trust 
 this person or not? Should you do as someone says or not and suffer the concequences? Should you 
 employ stealth or brute force? These kind of gameplay alternatives had never really been fully 
 explored before in a game and Deus Ex put them all together and coupled it with a simple to use 
 but enjoyable RPG system.
  
  Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 24, 2004 1:09 am PT
Review:  (All scores are given as if I played the game at the time of its release, in 2000.)
  
  Deus Ex was, without doubt, one of the most unusual gaming experiences of my life. An excellent 
 game, it's almost as if it was aimed specifically at my kind of sensibilities. I, like many others, 
 love RPGs -- but, unlike many RPG lovers, I prefer a more realistic modern or sci-fi setting to 
 the usual medieval fantasy stuff you usually get. This was the game to deliver on that front. But 
 not only did it deliver that setting, it delivered it accompanied by an amazing story and fascinating 
 gameplay system (though the latter appeared in games like System Shock 2 before) . The unfortunate 
 presentation and AI issues it possesses, therefore, could be easily ignored in a lesser game, but 
 in a great game like this, they stand out all the more.
  
  Story/TILT (9) : The game takes place sometime in the near future (maybe middle-to-late 21st century) . 
 The world is not a pretty place, with terrorism and starvation prevalent and in the open, including 
 in our very own U. S. of A. That said, this isn't some postapocalyptic wasteland a-la Fallout -- 
 the world may be struggling, but it's very much high-tech and commercial nevertheless. The atmosphere 
 is, therefore, dark yet very sci-fi, just the kind of thing you might be looking for in an RPG. 
 What's more, newspapers, datacubes, radio transmissions, emails, public bulletin boards, and the 
 things you see explain the world and the political situation with amazing depth and intelligence. 
 This is done to a far greater extent than is necessary for you to understand the plot, which makes 
 it that much more admirable.
  
  You play as a UNATCO agent codenamed J. C. Denton. UNATCO is UN's anti-terrorist organization. You 
 seem to be fighting NSF (National Sesessionist Front, I believe) , a terrorist organization. That's 
 really the tip of the story iceberg, however. As you play, you ally yourself with various terrorists, 
 crime groups, secret organizations, and more. All the plot threads eventually concern the Gray 
 Death, a deadly virus with no apparent cure. But who made the virus? Mother Nature? Or is there 
 something more sinister at work? These questions are all answered by the time you finish the game. 
 J. C. himself is a great protagonist, coolly balancing his responsibilities, his conscience, and 
 his relationship with his brother and UNATCO colleague Paul Denton. The story takes many twists 
 and sends you to many corners of the globe (New York, Paris, Hong-Kong, an underwater lab, even 
 Area 51) . You engage in many, many conversations with various characters. What's great is that 
 the actions you take in the game and the things you say cause an unprecedented amount of script 
 branching. For instance, your commander might remark you were particularly stealthy in your New 
 York mission. The plot can be affected in pretty major ways based on your decisions, although it's 
 somewhat disappointing that the biggest branch occurs at the very very very end. Still, this is 
 well done, and surprisingly devoid of bugs (I did notice a couple of inexplicable lines of dialogue, 
 though) . All of this, combined with the interesting characters you meet (and sometimes destroy) , 
 creates a deep, even believable, world, which is this game's greatest strength. TILT 9.
  
  GAMEPLAY (9) : Deus Ex plays unlike most games you've probably played before. It looks like a first-person 
 shooter, but it's really not. It's more of an action RPG. As J. C., you have a fairly large, but 
 not unlimited, inventory, and various skills. For instance, you could be pretty good at pistols 
 and hacking computers, but untrained at picking locks and firing rifle weapons. This means your 
 aim will be pretty good with pistols but extremely shaky with your sniper rifle. Similarly, you'll 
 be able to hack into systems without having the login name and password, but you'll have to spend 
 a lot of lock picks to pick a lock. As you complete objectives, you gain skill points which you 
 can allocate to your various skills. Since there aren't enough points to become an expert at everything, 
 you'll have to concentrate on a few areas each time you play. In addition, you can find special 
 nano augmentation canisters which can give some impressive abilities. For instance, you can lift 
 very heavy boxes, breathe longer under water, or even see through walls using IR vision. Each area 
 of your body will present a choice between two possible nano augmentations you can use. Other than 
 a couple underpowered augmentations, most are very cool and really help in the various situations 
 you might be in. By the end of the game you will be truly a one-of-a-kind soldier if you turn on 
 all your augs: You'll be able to literally leap over tall walls, see through walls, stay under 
 water for minutes at a time, breathe toxic air, and be undetectable by radar or sight. Such features 
 help you play the way you want to play: You can be stealthy, brute-force, or some mixture. The 
 game's many levels give you the opportunity to play however you want, as well. The objectives are 
 flexible and often change on you, but anything you want to accomplish can be done at least three 
 or four different ways. The arsenal of items and weapons helps this. My personal favorites were 
 the tranquillizer dart, which you'd better use from a distance, since it takes a few seconds to 
 take effect, and the GEP rocket launcher which killed almost anything in one shot. But you can 
 do most levels with just, say, your electric prod. It is unfortunate that NPCs don't reward your 
 stealth efforts with more acknowledgment beyond the game's first level (this is in contrast with 
 stealth games such as Metal Gear Solid) . Killing becomes very easy toward the end, and since there 
 is no real reward for not killing, one tends to stop using stealth, which detracts from the otherwise 
 fine gameplay quite a bit. The guards also don't act naturally at all, and the hide-in-shadows 
 mechanics seem quite unrealistic. These serious flaws can all be ignored, but it's sad to contemplate 
 how perfect the gameplay would be without them. Without doubt, more character interaction during 
 the game's longer middle and later missions would have helped immeasurably, since the gameplay 
 can keep one immersed for only so long without seeming mechanical. Combat also feels clumsy if 
 you're used to Quake or Half-life, although here I can forgive Deus Ex since it's not meant to 
 be a shooter and really you should avoid full-on war. The game still learns a 9/10 for GAMEPLAY 
 from me, but it could have easily been a 10.
  
  GRAPHICS (7) : Presentation is not a strength in this game, even for the time. The Unreal engine 
 wasn't used to very good effect. The textures would look pretty good if not for the bizarre color 
 dithering effects I was getting in dark places. The sky and water also look really bad. The character 
 models are OK for the time, but the animations look pretty sad, as well. Just watch yourself in 
 one of the many reflective surfaces in the game. Speaking of the reflective surfaces, these are 
 a rare bright spot in the game's graphics. Those look quite sharp to this day. Despite these technical 
 issues, the graphics convey the exceptional atmosphere very well. As the GameSpot review notes, 
 the whole game takes place at night, which is very fitting.
  
  SOUND (8) : The sound in this game is quite good overall. Above all, the music can be really excellent, 
 especially the main theme you hear in the main menu. It's a nice mix os electronic music and symphonic 
 instruments, and sounds suitably sci-fi. The sound effects are OK, although very repetitive at 
 times. Finally, the conversations range from riveting to unbelievably bad. The voice acting by 
 the main characters is nice, but the seconday characters and random passers-by are really atrocious. 
 The most ridiculous voice acting is by the random people you encounter on the streets of foreign 
 countries, such as France or China. The "Chinese" accents the Hong-Kong inhabitants sport when 
 speaking English are disgracefully badly done. Plus, they say the same stuff again and again. This 
 definitely brings the sound score down by a point or two.
  
  VALUE (10) : Due to all the choices you must make throughout the game (see above) , Deus Ex has intense 
 replay value. In addition to three endings, there are many different choice points resulting in 
 different dialogue and even minor plot deviations. Not to mention that one play-through of Deus 
 Ex is likely to take 25-30 hours, which is almost of Final Fantasy proportions anyway. The excellent 
 plot is not too hard to grasp, but additional playthroughs definitely solidify one's understanding 
 of it. Therefore, this one has about as much replay value as you could possibly want in a non-online 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2004 5:06 am PT
Review:  I think I can safely say Deus Ex is one the best, most immersing, best paced, deepest, most varied 
 gameplay of any game ever made. Think I'm smoking something, well maybe, but it's still true, you 
 will not find any PC game on the market that has this much single player gameplay. Let's start 
 with the skills system, you can upgrade your skill level like being able to hack computers, fire 
 weapons more accurately, and Heal yourself like a doctor. However that's just the tip of the iceberg, 
 you have numerous skills that can be upgraded, and you get skill points by completing mission objectives, 
 and also just exploring the game world. Furthermore you have augmentations that you can upgrade 
 as well. Like being able to run faster, or have radiation shields, and more. Also the sheer number 
 of people you can talk to, and interact with is truely astounding, there must be at least (i'm only 
 guessing) about 40 hours of speech built into the game. I'm not kidding you can somtimes talk to 
 characters in the game for 2 or 3 minutes after the cut scene has ended before they start repeating 
 dialouge. I have played Deus Ex at least 10 times from start to finish, and it was different each 
 time I played it. Now the main storyline remained the same, but all of the little sides quests 
 you can go on change depending on how you complete certain mission obj. I have only a few minor 
 complaints, one in the game there are all of these crates of ammo and weapons all over the place 
 right out in the open, alittle unrealistic considering the world your in is a police state, and 
 also the enemy A. I. is pretty dumb to say the least, I mean you can kill a bad guy right in front 
 of his buddy then go hide, and 20 seconds later his buddy will forget that his friend was just 
 killed, yeah. But all in all Deus Ex rocks like know other game before it. Do youself a Favor buy 
 this game now, it's 10 times better than Deus Ex I. W. Yes I know my review is alittle late. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CGS-Sledge
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2004 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This is what a FPS/RPG is all about. I wish Deus Ex 2 was as half as good as this one. I had so 
 much fun playing this game it was one of my top gaming experiences. There have been a very few 
 games that stand out from the rest. I rank this game up there with Half Life, Doom, and Quake series. 
 Deus Ex is a great mix of FPS and RTS style game play. The story line is top notch and is focused 
 on heavily in the game, something that a game like Doom was missing. I am not big on playing games 
 over and over again but I did play this one more than one time. If you played Deus Ex 2 and have 
 not played original, do yourself a huge favor and find out why they made a second one. Once you 
 play it you will understand why most feel that Deus Ex 2 just does not cut it against it big brother. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarshipCoyote
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2003 8:27 am PT
Review:  This game blew me away. At first I was Oh great another MIB rip off. However, as I continued 
 to play I started seeing elements of an excellent first person shooter, rolled into an excellent 
 storyline that did not lead me where I thought it would. The game was extremely hard to master, 
 because the wide range choice you had in action and in development of your character. The bioapps 
 were very cool, the cybernetics and the level of technology represented was done so in such a way 
 that you could actually believe that your character could exist in the real world. The dark gothic 
 world of Dues Ex is a world of danger and oppression. Its so accurate to the possibilities that 
 could happen in real life that you find yourself reflecting on all of this conspiracy stuff and 
 saying man that was slick. I can not say enough about this game, it was excellent and well thought 
 out I believe the developers of this game have out done themselves and I look forward for Dues 
 Ex 2 Invisible War with bated breath.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woofywoof
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2003 10:15 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's review is really disappointing... this game was probably the best fps in 2000. It's creative 
 and innovative approach (allowing you to upgrade yourself with skill points and bio modifications 
 as well as purchase items with money) combined with an excellent story line only makes the game 
 extremely exciting and satisfying to play. The non-linear storyline is an excellent way to ensure 
 that the player has the opportunity to make his/her own decisions which will ultimately affect 
 the game and give different results, adding to the replay value. However, the multiplayer option 
 is noticably absent and this may be a disappointment to many players. However, for such an excellent 
 single player, deus ex deserves all merits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 23, 2003 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Two and a half years after buying Deus Ex, I am playing it again for the fourth time. Nothing 
 has, or ever will diminish my love for this spectacular game. Its impossible to overstate what 
 a great and unique game it is. I have never played anything like it, and I doubt I ever will again. 
 It ranks as one of my 5 favorite video games of all time, going back to the Atari Space Invaders 
 game.
  
  Deus Ex provides so much variety, so much immersiveness, so much replayability, and so much suspense 
 that I have been spoiled, and I can never look at the first-person action genre the same again. 
 Just about every other 3D action game NOT done by Warren Spector seems shallow and average to me 
 now. It disappoints me to see the endless string of 10-hour linear shoot-em-ups coming out nowadays 
 getting scoring higher than Deus Ex in reviews
  
  The last time that I played Deus Ex, I played as a stealth-oriented pacifist. I killed only four 
 people the ENTIRE game, and those are scripted characters that you have to kill to advance the 
 story. This time around, I am making myself a brute force, lowlife killing machine, killing everybody. 
 The game is a vastly different experience. This should give you a sense for what an outstanding 
 role-playing game Deus Ex is. The various skills and tech upgrades that you can give yourself 
 give the game tons of variety. You play how you want, and the game adjusts to you, almost like 
 an invisible hand. This is also due, in large part, to Deus Exs ingenious level design, which 
 will probably never be matched.
  
  Deus Ex has other great marks of a great RPG, like being able to read books and newspapers that 
 arent necessary to finish the game, but establish the setting. As you play through the game, you 
 encounter a lot of different conspiracy theories, which gives the futuristic world a bleak, uneasy 
 feel. This is the deepest and smartest cyberpunk/corporate conspiracy to rule the world game that 
 I have ever played. The games dialog is very satisfying, and in many cases, thought-provoking. 
 The game explores basic philosophical questions about the roles of governments and technology should 
 be in our lives. For example, there is one point where you can briefly debate with an Artificial 
 Intelligence about whether mankind is better off with Democratic institutions, or with an omniscient 
 AI ruling the world. 
  
  Deus Ex is also a great stealth game. It doesnt quite equal Thief in that department, but it 
 doesnt have to. Stealth makes a great tool, but the need to use it never gets frustrating. Tranquilizer 
 darts, an electric prod, and a sniper rifle are some of the tools that you can use to sneakily 
 and silently take out opponents. The use of sound and cover is crucial for staying hidden. Deus 
 Ex rivals Thief and System Shock 2 when it comes to the use of stealth. Nobody has done it 
 better than these games since then. Deus Ex is great at both stealth and action, a very rare 
 feat. Most games can be good at one, but stink at the other. 
  
  Deus Ex is a great action game too. Each weapon has a distinctive look and sound to it. Every 
 type of ammunition looks completely different. The games more powerful weapons  the rocket launcher, 
 assault shotgun, and assault rifle, all give you that satisfying feel that you get from blowing 
 stuff up and mowing down bad guys. As with stealth, you can use skills and augmentations to beef 
 up your brute force combat abilities. 
  
  I totally disagree that the games graphics are average. They look great, not because of polygon 
 counts or and of that technocrap that nobody really cares about, but because of interesting design 
 and artwork. When bombs explode, they dont just explode  they emit a blast wave that destroys 
 everything nearby. Different areas and settings look like they should. You go into corporations, 
 labs, fortresses, and night clubs, to name a few. 
  
  And no review would be complete without mentioning this games awesome theme and ambient music. 
 I love loading up the game so that I can hear the theme music. I have a handful of MP3s from the 
 soundtrack that I love listening to outside of the game. In the game, they make some of the locations 
 unforgettable. 
  
  The only faults that I found in the game were questionable AI for guards (the guards give up searching 
 for you too easily, and forget you were ever there) , and some really bad voice acting. Foreign 
 accents, in particular, are overexaggerated and sound awful. 
  
  I normally agree with Greg Kasavins reviews, but not here. 8.2 is too darn low, especially when 
 you see so many less satisfying action games (e. g. Medal of Honor: Allied Assault and Max Payne) 
 scoring in the 9s. Deus Ex is a legendary game that every gamer must play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienrider
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2003 8:36 am PT
Review:  Rating this game by it graphics, is missing the point. I will from one point illustrate why this 
 is one of the greatest achievements in gaming history. My and friend and me both bought the game 
 at the same time and were roughly progressing through it at the same rate. 
  
  What was so sool cool was the lunchtimes !!!!! Each lunchtime we would talk about Deus Ex and found 
 out for every each and every mission we did we had a completely different way of doing the missions. 
 Furthermore the way we completed them reflected a bit of ourselves.
  
  I generally solved my mission via stealth, avoiding direct confrontation, whenever I could and 
 using fast overpowering force whenever cornered, or necessary. My friend however preferred the 
 gung-ho approach of blasting everything in sight and his agent was customised into the ultimate 
 killing machine. Every lunchtime was a different set of conversations about how versatile Deus 
 Ex was, 'I didn't realise that' or 'Can you do that ?' or 'Why didn't I think of that ?'. 
  
  Why should Deus Ex be worthy of your consideration, ask yourself a question; How many games 
 do you know allow you the freedom to solve the games challenges the way YOU would ? That's how 
 unique Deus Ex was. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
