-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Devastation
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/devastation/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 31, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.5, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 265 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Arush Entertainment
Developer: Digitalo Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 28, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Devastation is an ambitious but seriously flawed shooter. 

  If nothing else, Devastation is ambitious. Digitalo Studios' futuristic first-person shooter features 
 more than 35 weapons, arcade-style and tactical modes of play, computer-controlled teammates, a 
 detailed physics model, and single-player missions that incorporate "botmatch"-style base attack 
 and defense objectives (that is, both you and your opponents are aided by computer-controlled "bot" 
 characters) . Unfortunately, Devastation tries to be a jack-of-all-trades, but is master of none, 
 and it's lacking in a few key areas.           You play as a character evidently designed to look 
 like rap musician Eminem.    

  Like so many other action games, Devastation places you in the role of a rebel who must fight against 
 an oppressive corporation that now controls most of the world. Devastation uses a bunch of clichd 
 events and settings to pound this familiar theme into a mush that is indistinguishable from plenty 
 of other generic shooters. There's the subway level, the sewer level, the warehouse level, the 
 part where you have to single-handedly fight an attack chopper, and the level where you get conked 
 on the head, stripped of your weapons, and tossed in jail (though as it turns out, Devastation 
 takes away your weapons and tosses you in jail not once, but twice) .  

  Though freedom was obviously the first victim of Devastation's totalitarian corporate state, garbage 
 collection appears to have been a close second. The game's Unreal-engine powered environments are 
 filled with trash. It's never explicitly stated just what, exactly, the evil corporation is selling, 
 but from the general makeup of the debris, it's probably soft drinks, Chinese food, or oil barrels. 
 A lot of this busted-up bric-a-brac actually exists as independent objects in the world, all affected 
 by an at least theoretically realistic physics model. For instance, you can shoot a milk crate 
 in its upper left corner, and it'll tumble over its rear left axis.  

  The physics system is a neat idea, but, as implemented, it suffers from two major problems. The 
 first is that the rules governing the physics are spotty at best. Often objects will simply get 
 stuck -- on walls, on ceilings, or even in midair. If you pick something up and toss it down at your 
 feet, it'll either disappear completely or become half-buried in the ground. The imprecision of 
 the bounding box around your character causes you to constantly knock things over, as if you were 
 navigating the world while wearing a bulky and invisible costume. In fact, the physics will often 
 make you feel that you're not playing an action-packed shooter, but rather a simulation of being 
 the world's clumsiest action hero.  

  The second, and bigger, problem is that no real attempt has been made to integrate the effects 
 of the physics model into the game. Yes, you can pick up a chair and smash it over somebody's head. 
 But since everybody's carrying a small arsenal of high-tech weapons, holstering your gun and then 
 stopping to grab some furniture is mostly just a good way to get shot. What's worse, the developer 
 apparently overlooked some opportunities to actually make good use of the physics engine. For instance, 
 when hit with a few bullets, oil barrels explode, and thanks to the physics engine, a barrel on 
 its side will roll, which could lead to some interesting tactics such as rolling a barrel toward 
 an enemy position, then shooting it when it gets near its target. Unfortunately, while you can 
 pick up and toss a barrel, there's no way to adjust your grip so that it lands on its side. A thrown 
 barrel will almost always land on its flat bottom, causing it to quickly skip to a stop. The physics 
 system ends up being more of a somewhat goofy graphical effect than a feature that impacts the 
 gameplay in any meaningful way. Oddly, some other standard environmental effects you might expect 
 from a new first-person shooter are entirely missing -- there's no shattering glass, for example. 

  The game's 21 missions start off just like most goal-oriented first-person shooters. Run here, 
 flip this switch, and so on. In some levels, you're accompanied by as many as eight computer-controlled 
 teammates, but the AI that controls their behaviors seems half-finished. At one point, the game 
 stops so that a teammate can warn you about how dangerous a particular laser gate is, though that 
 doesn't stop her from barging right into it and dying five seconds later. Often, teammates will 
 get stuck somewhere or just stop and begin firing into walls for no apparent reason. You can give 
 them four basic commands: stop, follow, attack, and defend. Since roughly half the missions end 
 if any friendly character gets killed, it's often best to order them to stay back. This is especially 
 important because once they get a whiff of enemy activity, they'll pretty much refuse to follow 
 orders until all nearby enemies are dead.  

  About halfway through the game, the levels open up a little and become a sort of botmatch version 
 of the game's most interesting multiplayer mode, called territories. In it, you must defend your 
 own base, which includes a destructible player-spawner, while simultaneously mounting an attack 
 on the opposing team's base and player-spawner. The spawner removes any requirement for keeping 
 your teammates alive (when they die, they're immediately resurrected back at base) , which means 
 you can let them go about their crazy business without worrying about their safety.  

  But this potentially innovative mission design doesn't quite work out, since it, like other parts 
 of the game, seems only half-finished. Throughout the game, enemy AI is generally passable, though 
 not notable in any real way. Opponents will duck and look for cover. However, they'll often duck 
 for cover in the middle of a completely open area, so whether or not they're actually behind cover 
 appears to be more a matter of luck than any rational thought process. They also have no idea how 
 to throw or run from grenades, which means they can't flush you out of an entrenched position. 
 But the biggest AI flaw becomes apparent in these later missions. The AI appears to have no real 
 desire to assault your base. On the levels in which your base is behind an electric gate that requires 
 a set of codes to unlock, the AI can retrieve the codes but quite simply refuses to use them. One 
 mission requires you to defend your base for a certain period of time. We marshaled all our teammates 
 away from the action in the base's basement, then walked away and left the game running all night. 
 By morning, the enemies still hadn't managed to unlock the gate.           The remote-controlled 
 rat bomb is the game's most unusual weapon.    

  The game is also plagued by crashes and various other technical issues. On our test computer (which 
 has run every other Unreal-engine game flawlessly) we were dumped back to the desktop at least 
 twice during each of the last 10 missions. Multiplayer is less stable; we haven't been able to 
 play more than 10 consecutive minutes online without a crash. For some reason, the built-in browser 
 lists all pings as zero. From what we've heard from various Devastation fans at the game's official 
 forums, we're not the only ones experiencing these problems at this point.  

  Assuming everything works, Devastation's multiplayer is pretty standard stuff. It includes deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, capture the flag, and the aforementioned territories mode. Aside from the physics 
 system (which is disabled on most of the existing servers, since it puts a huge strain on the host 
 system) , there's nothing about the game's multiplayer that makes it stand out from the crowd. Otherwise, 
 the game is still a decent shooter that's fast-paced and offers a huge variety of weapons, though 
 its technical problems detract from both the single-player and multiplayer modes.  

  Devastation has occasional flashes of inspiration. Once in a while, you'll kill an enemy and he'll 
 fall back into a pile of boxes, dramatically causing them to tumble in every direction. But then 
 the AI will break, or some sound effect will be missing, or the game will just crash. Devastation 
 is an ambitious but seriously flawed shooter. Though much of its gameplay is otherwise decent, 
 Devastation is ultimately plagued by too many incomplete concepts and annoying issues to recommend 
 it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NirvanaX360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I got this game at vegas for a very cheap price of 5 bucks. I popped the game in my laptop in my 
 hotel room. I was immediately hooked on to the game. It was innovative having it's own original 
 taste in gameplay. The story was a bit cliche, but still enjoying. It was an easy to understand 
 story of a corrupt country and a resistance trying to return order. You play as 2 characters. The 
 first character is a young lady scientist who is attacked my officers with her partner. She (you) 
 escape and go to a warehouse and after a cutscene. You play as the resistance leader. The game 
 is linear, but you have some extra space to "explore". 
  
  The weapons look amazing and some of them are extremely fun to use. You can carry an unlimited 
 amount of weapons. That may seem easy, but the game isn't easy at all. You will be caught in a 
 lot of rough situations where you have to use the resistance to help you. Later in the game you 
 have a reviver. The reviver, revives you every time you die, right away. You lose if the police 
 destroy the machine and you die. 
  
  Each level is a city and the environment changes, so no repetitive textures. There is multiplayer, 
 but unfortunately, I was unable to test it, because there are no active servers. Or in other words, 
 No one has this game. 
  
  The game is a lot of fun and I recommend it to anyone here looking for a good fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Devastation is a long, challenging game, that kept me interested for several hours and days. Your 
 copy of allies is very weak and they rarely assist you other than a distraction, but that is the 
 way these team games are setup. The levels are long, the enemies are repetitive, but they can be 
 difficult to kill at times. The graphics are adequate and I found the story easy to follow. It 
 kept me wanted to keep clearing paths through them to reach the end. The game was straight forward 
 until the end boss. He was hard to kill. Amazing aim. He rarely missed. It was hard to figure out 
 how to finally kill him, but I did. It looked like the end opened up for a sequel, but I doubt 
 it happen since it has not yet. I would likely purchase another game if it came out, but they need 
 to improve the variety of enemies and the intelligence of your teammates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raistlin1977
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for around 5 dollars after reading about it and liking the concept of a corporate 
 controlled 1984 like reality in the near future. I knew it was suspicious for a game to drop in 
 price so quickly but the story, concept, and graphics seemed worth giving it a chance. I wasnt disappointed, 
 but ill get the bad out of the way first. Very glitchy at times, game can crash at times to desktop, sometimes 
 squad members almost completely ignore commands. The game claims to utilise stealth and using the 
 physics to distract enemies which is rarely if ever practical or needed.
  The good outweighs the bad i think in that their just isnt any FPS game ive ever played quite like 
 it. It utilises something similar to the vita chambers in bioshock to make respawning almost believable 
 from a science fiction point of view. Yet it is still challenging with the respawn machines. At certain 
 points in the game its a matter of you and your squad trying to destroy the enemies respawn machines 
 while they are trying to do the same to yours. The respawn machines dont make it overly easy say 
 as they did in bioshock with the vita chambers. The graphics look great with the unreal engine and 
 their is an insane amount of weapons and you can duel wield some of them such as the pistols and 
 small submachine type weapons. The squad does obey commands the majority of the time fortunately 
 despite ignoring some of the time. More often than not you are not fighting alone and at times 
 have up to 6 squad mates helping you at times if i recall correctly. The techno electro style music 
 kicks in sometimes when firefights break out ,creating nice action packed atmosphere for sure.
 
  This game is great but still glitchy after the patch. It a real shame the developers didnt keep 
 on supporting it and just let it blow in the wind. Last time i checked the official forum was a 
 tomb infested with advertisements and porn .Despite the glitches and crashes i still consider this 
 one of the most enjoyable games ive ever played on PC. You can still find this game out there and 
 for a low price. Give it a chance you might not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I have played games which are too buggy that uninstalling it will cause more bugs or the game is 
 just simply superb that you'll beg for more. Devastation is actually both - buggy but wanting more; 
 strange it may seem.
  
  The game starts off with you, a person who looks remarkable like the entertainer eminem (and thankfully 
 does not sing) fighting against oppression in the near bleak future. Eventually you team up with 
 other rebels which at times don't react to your commands (install the patch) but have the same 
 objective - fight for the just cause!
  
  The future is not so bright (and neither is the AI - install the patch) and the game graphics definitely 
 shows this (in a good way) . The overall setting is so bleak tonnes of trash litters everywhere 
 which definitely adds the feel of the environment. At times you will curse at that crate blocking 
 your path and think 'man this suck' however that is the nature of the beast - very cool indeed.
 
  
  Another great point however poorly executed was the notion of 'bot' teammates. You definitely feel 
 that you are not a lone warrior however part of a larger organisation. Non player characters introduction 
 is good however it really should be developed more (eg Duffy and that 'confidential' mission or 
 Tara's skills at electronics) . More character background equals more memorable experience (take 
 a look at any good RPGs - Fallout anyone?) .
  
  AI on the other hand is poor. To those who played Unreal Tournament 1999 will be right-at-home 
 with the 'v' command to order the bots however strangely enough (considering it runs on the Unreal 
 Engine) the bots don't respond well at all. I lost count the amount of times that I ordered the 
 bots to 'hold position' only to realise they decide to run into a very 'angry' machine gunner. 
 Thankfully though the patch solves that problem to a degree (and improved graphics) but the sound 
 slacks off. A good trade-off?
  
  Speaking of sounds, the quality could definitely improved as the noise of opening doors, splashing 
 through water etc reminds remarkably like Unreal and UT 1999. However gunfire, explosions etc is 
 pretty good as well as the music score. You even can create your own ogg file and track list for 
 your listening pleasure.
  
  Two styles of game play, arcade and simulation is a great mix to anyone who either like realism 
 or action. Realism equates to fewer enemies and more tactics meaning you cannot carry a Sherman 
 Tank, parts of the Empire State Building and yet fire a sniper rifle (yes you have to drop that 
 building) yet arcade means all-you-can-eat plus more enemies. Personally I like the simulation 
 version better.
  
  However one of the major drawbacks is that the game crashes quite often. Error messages concluded 
 the graphics card however considering the game runs on a heavily modified Unreal Engine I had not 
 one problem running UT1999 or Unreal. This remains a mystery of why the game likes to visit the 
 desktop. However did this deter my enthusiasm? Absolutely not!
  
  Overall, considering the drawbacks (visiting the desktop and AI issues) don't let that spoil the 
 game. The notion of team play (as in you are not a lone warrior) , detailed environments and a good 
 story will keep you coming back for more. Join the revolution and spawn freely (and download the 
 patch - now how many times did I say that) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Devastation is a game you can choose to embrace and enjoy because of its core attributes and attitude 
 or cast aside because of its deficiencies. Made by Digitalo Studios, from which my research concludes 
 is their only release, Devastation packs a lot of ambition and vision. Yes, it fall short on some 
 of these, but it still is a decent shooter which against all norms actually becomes more involved 
 and enjoyable in the later parts of the game.
  
  In Devastation, set about 2075, you play an Eminem look-alike who is part of an underground movement 
 opposed to corporation domination of world resources and their use of pacification squads to 
 muzzle our future youth. The movement has infiltrated one such corporation and secured vital information 
 from their computer systems. A bespectacled female brings a data disk to you and from there it's 
 game on she turns into a hottie and you progress through over 20 levels of combat action to bring 
 down the corporations and bring truth to the world (or what's left of it) . In the later half of 
 the game, when brawling through Japan and Korea, you will be joined by comrades of the international 
 resistance and the action turns into an all-out assault with a true botmatch style. But it's a 
 formula that works and provides some enjoyable no holds barred combat.
  
  The graphics are sound. The environments are the strength, with some superb maps full of detail 
 and size. There is both room to room combat and external environments to work your way through 
 and the streets of Japan and Korea have a resonant, charming aura. Most cut-scenes are done pretty 
 well and the extensive arsenal of weapons look good enough to me. The individual allies and enemies, 
 on the whole look pretty average, but it something who have to pay close attention to actually 
 notice. The game looks pretty good as a whole. It has aged, but it's still acceptable.
  
  The sound perhaps the weakest point, with firefights that sound unconvincing and music that stops 
 at starts at strange times. The music is a strange mix of simple techno backbeats and when it works 
 and plays for a prolonged period, it actually sounds OK. Weapons do sound hollow and close quarter 
 combat with many adversaries sounds nothing more than a bunch of bangs which is a bit of a disappointment. 
 Voice acting is reasonable and they are other sound effects along the way that do a satisfactory 
 job, except listening to the chic scientist run early in the games sound akin to mopping the floor.
 
  
  Devastations gameplay is a bit of a slow-burner. I am sure there will be gamers who wont get 
 past the second level, thinking that the game is a tub of lard. I can understand that. The opening 
 levels are quite generic and not that engaging. However, as your allies slowly stack up, the game 
 provides some different environments (including an asylum turned into a jail and very cool representations 
 of post modern Korea and Japan) and the story develops it becomes a more engaging and enjoyable 
 game to play.
  
  The gameplay takes a turn for the better with the discovery of the secret research undertaken by 
 the corporations. Survival isnt so much an option once you have the possession of a re-spawner. 
 That item alone really changes that whole dynamics of the game. Does the make the game easier? 
 Perhaps, but also a lot more enjoyable as you play something akin to multiplayer, Capture the 
 Flag except against a computer and not a bunch of hack-riddled wannabes.
  
  The core of the game is combat and, disregarding the disappointing sound programming of the firefights, 
 it is done quite well. The environments / maps cater for all forms of combat, including close corridor 
 / in your face action as well as open combat with numerous adversaries. Later in the game the one 
 shot / kill laser type weapon makes its obligatory appearance  but hey  you can respawn. Whilst 
 this may take away any duty of care gamers should have for their character, it does turn combat 
 into a full offensive charge to the enemy base (which includes gathering codes and disarming defensive 
 apparatus) and it is quite exhilarating.
  
  The AI, however, is a bit too weak. Without a doubt, the adversaries hold their own. But I do have 
 two main criticisms. Firstly, they do know who to duck and retreat, but thats what they do  they 
 dont duck behind cover or retreat to a safer position. They become sitting ducks. But then again, 
 they can re-spawn too. The second is that for all the ability to provide a solid combative opponent 
 and stacking their bases with soldiers, they never really launch an offensive on your base, except 
 for in the first couple of minutes. It then becomes a matter of wearing them down through repeated 
 attacks, without having to worry about your own backyard.
  
  There is also a real detachment with the characters. Yes, we know they are part of a resistance, 
 but what is their part? Why are they resisting? Why is it that other than the armour-cladded pacification 
 squads and freakily dressed members of the resistance (who actually look like there are ready 
 to hit the nightclubs and not go into combat) , there is not a single other soul in the game? There 
 is a bit of an emotional void to it all.
  
  The final level will take a bit of time to work out, with some challenging opposition and a puzzle 
 element to defeat the final boss. When you do get there and the final cut-scene rolls and the resistance 
 wins back the barren wasted piece of terra-firma the earth has become, there is a sense of satisfaction 
 and achievement.
  
  I except all the comments I've read that this game was extremely buggy on release. However, the 
 developer deserves credit for the post-release efforts. Two large patches were subsequently released 
 and have fixed up several of issues. The game crashed once for me, and it automatically quick-saved 
 before crashing and the only other bug I noticed was one of my comrades climbing an imaginary ladder 
 and then walking through the sky. It was quite funny, actually.
  
  Devastation took about 10 hours to complete on the default level. It is a bit of hard work to get 
 to the more enjoyable sections of the game but worth the effort. There is multiplayer, but I don't 
 know if it is patronized or not.
  
  I purchased Devastation for $AUD10 and it came with a separate CD with the patch updates. That 
 is good work. It's definitely worth that amount of money.
  
  Devastation gets a thumbs-up from me. The 'underdog' developer has put together a decent game that 
 is enjoyable to play. Forget the detached story, forget the hollow sound effects and forget some 
 of the broken AI and enjoy the confused, chaotic, senseless but ultimately engaging world on offer. 
 It's is a bit of a 'long shot' and it won't be to everybody's liking. But if you don't mind throwing 
 caution to the wind and you can absorb the occasional flaw, bug and lower production quality, you 
 might just find a genuine diamond in the rough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 6, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  Devastation is one of those shooters that puts you smackdown in the middle of a dystopian near 
 future world full of decaying buildings and littered streets. Even though it is clear a lot of 
 energy was spent on crafting a believable lived in decaying world, nobody engaged any brain cells 
 when coming up with the story to explain it. Once again you are the champion of a group of unbelievably 
 corny badass underdogs fighting a faceless totalitarian corporation with megalomaniac ambitions, 
 their might fuelled by (wait for it) cloned soldiers and nanotechnology, two of the most overused 
 cliches in FPS history. You spend the entire game shooting at masked Caucasian men with muscular 
 bodies, and everybody is wearing face masks, including construction workers, which makes the premise 
 even sillier.
  
  Plot aside, the game offers up some entertaining action sequences, especially as you pass the halfway 
 marker when the game suddenly shifts into a new gear. While the first two areas see you and a hodge 
 podge of followers track your way through a linear level from point A to B, engaging carefully 
 placed opponents and picking up health kits to stay alive, the second phase of the game equips 
 you with a spawning device and instead gives your team a set number of goals to achieve while storming 
 the enemy spawner. This section is more like a bot match and stimulates furious action as the loss 
 of life becomes irrelevant. This has a positive effect on more carefree and intensive gameplay, 
 but also lessens the tension of the game, as player death doesn't invoke any penalties, and you 
 respawn immediately with a complete set of weapons.
  
  Ironically, as the game progresses, it becomes easier to play. Even though the opposition becomes 
 tougher you can easily trade a life for picking off one or two troublesome snipers and then just 
 rush headlong into the action with a new body. On the contrary, the early game requires much more 
 careful playing, as the opposition can easily kill you or one of your teammates off, forcing you 
 to reload the game.
  
  One of the game's selling points is the huge arsenal of weapons available. The interface for switching 
 between them is simple enough, giving you a quick overview of all your means of dealing death. 
 However, a lot of weapons end up being dust collectors, as there is a more limited number you will 
 most likely use again and again. For example, there are four different handguns available, their 
 characteristics being very similar, and they are soon relegated to back up duty. Similarly there 
 are three sniper rifles, yet the first one you receive will probably remain your best friend, as 
 the other two while offering a high rate of fire instead require you to put multiple headshots 
 in your opponent. It is a shame though, that some of the more interesting weapons are introduced 
 at the very end of the campaign.
  
  All things considered, this is a good romp for some chaotic gunplay, and I'll probably revisit 
 sometime in the future, just stay clear of the storyline and you'll do fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coylez5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  I got this game about 2 years ago back in 2004, and i still like the game. Its different, its unique, 
 and it has good gameplay. Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent 
 game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent 
 game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent 
 game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent 
 game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent 
 game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent 
 game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent 
 game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent 
 game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent 
 game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent 
 game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent 
 game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent 
 game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! Excellent game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelILL
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I simply cannot see why so many people dont like this game. This game is probably one of my favorite 
 games of all time. And I have Doom 3 ROE, Halo 2, Duke Nukem 3D, Pariah, Battle Field 2, Medal 
 Of Honor Allied Assault, and many others, none of them are even close to as good as this game.
 
  
  Difficulty: In the beginning of the game it is much harder because you do not respawn because you 
 dont have any spawners (regeneration platforms) . The AI can be a pain at times but if you command 
 them right they can be of great value to you.
  
  Learning Curve: This game play's the same as other shooters, any FPS veteran will learn FAST. Others 
 it will take more time.
  
  Gameplay: Amazingly good. You run down a subway tunnel and a ninja jumps down with a sword, swings 
 it and you watch your head fly ten feet. Meanwhile your allies open fire and bring him down. Great 
 gameplay in every level. There are no crappy escort missions or stupid stealth missions of any 
 kind, just action, pure action the whole time. The weapon selection for this game is magnificent 
 with every thing from a 9MM pistol, to a vicious shotgun, a deadly Katana, a sniper rifle that 
 shoots the limbs off of enemies, a HUGE gattaling gun. Virtually any weapon if FPS is available 
 in Devastation so any playing style can be done
  
  Graphics: This game uses the Unreal Engine, which is masterly implemented. Weapon models are good 
 and the level design is well thought out.
  
  Sound: Great. You can play your own music in the game or listen to the game's music. The game has 
 many expertly composed Chinese/Techno style track's that go along well with the action. 
  
  Value: I bought this game for $4. Since no one seems to like it demand is that low. I would have 
 sold a hundred Halo 2 copies for a dollar for this game, because it is simply a Masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  Devestation is good at some points and bad at other points.
  This is my review about Devestation.
  
  Gameplay:
  Good, with lots of weapons, nice maps, 
 smart enemy AI.
  Lots of gibs and blood, lots of violence.
  No vehicles?
  
  Graphics:
  Look great and runs smooth on a decent computer.
  
  Sounds:
  Weapons dont sound 
 very good, but good enough.
  Enemies sound good.
  
  Variety:
  The only variety is the variety between the weapons.
  Enemies pretty much look the same.
  
 
  Value:
  Value increases a bit by the multiplay options.
  Single play is average.
  
  Online:
  Nice and challenging.
  
  Well thats my review for Devestation.
  cya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 10, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  The author got a great deal on this game (less than $10.00) . The game was hyped as comparable to 
 HL2, but fell very short of that mark. The player is a young person (teenager) , named Flynn, in 
 the apocalyptic future. The gamer continues to meet other rebels like him throughout the game. 
 Their enemy is Grathius, the new world order and all round bad guys supported by a supposed dictator. 
 Your rebel friends are right out of a head-bangers ball. Piercing and tatoos adorn a dirty, scabby 
 looking lot. But hey, this is the future and after apocalypse. So, that part is totally realistic.
 
  
  There are up to forty weapons, but unfortunately, you can only choose from weapons you have previously 
 picked-up in another level. There are three choices for weapons, small arms, like pistols; heavy 
 weapons like rifles, and shotguns; then accessories, like samurai swords, and grenades. As a level 
 starts, the player gets to choose from the three categories, but what you can carry fills up quickly. 
 The other thing one may not realize is the amount of ammo available with each weapon. You do not 
 know this available ammo level when you choose the weapon at the beginning of the episode. There 
 was one choice the author particularly liked, the drone rat. Now, this was cool! A drone that looks 
 like a rat could move where the gamer could not. The gamer directs the rat to a strategic location 
 and then sets it to explode.
  
  The graphic engine was designed to work like HL2 with all the physics of the real world at play. 
 However, this feature hits the tilt button in gameplay. Objects are stuck in walls, floors, and 
 ceilings. Enemy weapons may remain floating in the air. The sounds genuinely accompany the movement 
 of objects. There are bottles crashing, chairs tumbling, cardboard boxes rustling. When in a narrow 
 hallway, if your rebel friends are behind you, it becomes very difficult to backtrack, since they 
 stay in your way. The author did not play the game on the highest video setting, but regardless 
 the characters look chunky. The shadows, reflections, and textures were just so-so. The game 
 totally crashed about five times for the author during the entire gameplay.
  
  The author felt the gameplay to be rather difficult. There were ReGen machines that re-spawn the 
 enemy as fast as they can be shot. Until I figured out how to take the generators out so re-spawning 
 was terminated, this feature was very frustrating. There is at least one re-generator per level 
 about one quarter of the way through the game until the end. The good news is you and your team 
 could use the ReGen machines too. At the end, the enemy perfects a Re-Gen with nanocytes, so ReGens 
 of the last BOSS are spontaneous and continuous until you can take him out. The author could not 
 kill the last BOSS with the guns and ammo left. His firepower was vastly superior compared to mine. 
 Thus, my 12-gauge shotgun just could not complete with his heavy mini-gun. Game maps are small 
 due to the difficult encounters with the ReGen machines.
  
  Overall, this game should have been tested more before being released. The plot is the same as 
 any other apocalyptic game. The weapons are great, if one could use them all. The author would 
 only recommend this game to the most desperate FPS, locked away, with nothing else to play!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotcrazy
Rating: 6
Date: May 18, 2005 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game was real good..... up until you started playing. I have never seen this much glitching 
 in a game. Its like they didnt even take time to debug the game. Like I started out as some guy, 
 meeting some girl (the story skips around alot and you dont know whats going on) . The surroundings 
 really suck. Like you can pick up almost anything, but it stills comes back to the glitching. Ok 
 so I picked up a basketball off a basketball court and tried to make it on the hoop. But when I 
 shot it, it got stuck in the rim on the hoop. Other times it would be unrealistic. I could pick 
 up shopping carts and chuck them across the level.... really weird. As for the story it skips around 
 too much and you lose track whats going on after like 10 minutes. The weapons on the other hand 
 are really cool. You can get up to 40 weapons. As for the grapihcs there good, not the best but 
 good. For some reason I couldnt set the resolution any higher than 1024X768. So you might be think 
 well his computer just sucks. But in other reviews I read they had the same problem I did. So all 
 in all this game isnt that good. If you can get it for 10$ like I did... go ahead and buy it. But 
 its not worth more than 5 or 10$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 31, 2005 3:10 am PT
Review:  I picked this up for 10$ one day at the Futureshop. I was waiting for Half-life 2 so I wanted to 
 play another physicy game. This one is just as physicslike as Half-life 2, just more glitches and 
 screwed stuff, less fun. But you get 10 more guns in your arsenal than half-life 2 and you can 
 blow or arms and heads. You can get killed in ONE HIT. I had full health, and this guy turned the 
 corner {Single player bot} and shot me, hit me in the head and I died. I wasn't happy. Unreal engine 
 makes the game look good and run good, with Ragdoll physics, Every Physics, partcles, but crappy 
 water. No cube maps or reflections of any kind, sorry. 
  
  Anyways this game is rated M. You can blow off a Head, Arm and I think leg. I once threw a grenade 
 in the middle of 2 people and they both turned into red clouds, and basically incinerated. I just 
 found hands and some extra stuff lying around. So I picked up the hand and threw it against a wall. 
 Blood kind of leaks out of mising limbs, but not much spraying action. It drips out feircely though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spolan39
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 5, 2003 5:25 pm PT
Review:  After much anticipation for it to come out, I purchased Devastation in the hopes that it would 
 be the next first-person shooter to grace my collection. From what I've played so far, my overall 
 opinion is "ahh, it's okay". Nothing spectacular. Nothing innovative (like "bullet-time" in Max 
 Payne) . Pretty basic. Go from point A to point B whilst killing a few enemies in between. Graphics 
 are very mediocre with some "glitches" popping up every so often (sunglasses that appear to float 
 in front of you, for example, and then disappear) . Weaponry is pretty much what you would expect, 
 although I found the sound effects rather flat and not keeping in line with the type of weapon 
 and the sound that I would expect. A. I. teammates are a real help in a firefight, although they 
 can unexpectedly jump in front of your line of sight on occasion. Garbage is everywhere as the 
 streets seem to be littered with it (so to speak) and the overall look of the game is dingy and 
 grey (but maybe that that's in keeping with the tone) . I've only experienced 1 "bug" so far that 
 unexplainedly crashed me back to the desktop but did allow me to send the developers an error message 
 report (much like Windows XP) . I would recommend this game if you're simply looking for a basic 
 first-person shooter... nothing devastating, just average. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
