-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Devil May Cry 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/devilmaycry4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Extraordinary action sequences.
 Nero is a great new character with some terrific new moves.
 Beautiful visuals and incredible cutscenes will constantly amaze you.
 Boss characters are designed well and fun to fight.
 A couple of fun modes that are exclusive to the PC version .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You need a gamepad if you want the proper experience.
 Environments and boss fights are repeated far too often.
 Puzzles and platforming aren't much fun and chop up the pace too much.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 3,107 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Fantasy Shooter
Date:     Jul 8, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Plug in your gamepad and brace yourself: Devil May Cry 4 on the PC is every bit the equal of the 
 console versions. 

  If you play Devil May Cry 4 on the PC, you should expect all of the same visceral carnage featured 
 in the console versions, but there's a caveat: You'll need a gamepad. If you're a glutton for punishment, 
 you can try using the game's keyboard control scheme, but it's awkward and frustrating. However, 
 assuming that you have a decent controller, you'll find that this excellent sequel is Capcom's 
 finest PC release in years.  

  It's a challenging experience, though its smoother difficulty curve makes it far more accessible 
 than Devil May Cry 3. In this vein, you're given an excellent number of gameplay choices that help 
 you tailor the challenge to your preferences. You can initially choose one of two difficulties 
 (and if you want to cry like a little kid, you can unlock several more) , and you can even choose 
 whether you want the game to perform some combos for you automatically. No, you aren't apt to find 
 Devil May Cry 4 to be excessively tough on your first play-through, although it is no walk in the 
 park, either. Nevertheless, it is  generally  excessive, and that isn't a bad thing. Stylish action, 
 terrific boss fights, and beautiful, melodramatic cutscenes will inspire you to push forward, and 
 they serve as an appropriate reward for a well-played sequence of demon slaying.  

           Dante's back, and he's badder than ever.      

  It isn't surprising that a game featuring 
 the charmingly insane Dante would be so over the top, though the series' famed antihero is not 
 the real star this time around. Don't worry; you'll still get to play as Dante, and he brings with 
 him a good selection of weapons and fighting styles, just as Devil May Cry fans would expect. But 
 you'll spend the majority of the game as newcomer Nero, who has a selection of impressive and elegant 
 moves of his own. Nero is an excellent character, capable of delivering a few wisecracks, a brooding 
 glance, and a heartfelt plea of love to his beloved Kyrie in a few moments' time. He's clearly 
 cut from the same cloth as Dante, and it's a bit disappointing that the game doesn't explore this 
 connection in more detail. Regardless, you'll want to follow Nero's exploits as he struggles to 
 learn the truth about his own religious organization, The Order of the Sword, and Dante's apparent 
 murder of its leader.  

  The story doesn't offer up a whole lot of surprises, but it embraces a certain attitude of self-indulgence. 
 Cutscenes are overwrought, visually stunning affairs, and are among the best you are likely to 
 see in any game in recent years. The theatrical dialogue, impossibly athletic animations, and swooping 
 camerawork make for quite the spectacle, but somehow it's a spectacle that manages to stay on just 
 the right side of cheesy. Devil May Cry 4 takes itself seriously, but not too seriously, so for 
 every shocking, bloody cutaway, there's an equally funny quip that helps keep the narrative in 
 check. There are a couple of cringe-worthy exceptions, such as one scene in which Dante decides 
 he's a tango dancer (don't quit your day job!) , but overall, you're apt to find the scenes to be 
 gorgeous, thought-provoking, and emotionally stirring.  

  Nero's claim to fame is his demonic arm, better known as the devil bringer. With it, you can grab 
 on to distant enemies and pull them in, pick them up, and slam them around for some excellent combos, 
 plus deliver a few other surprises. These mechanics are easy to pull off, and they represent a 
 general shift from the defensive gameplay of Devil May Cry 3 to a more aggressive approach. As 
 you play, you can pull off some incredibly satisfying moves, both in the air and on the ground, 
 and the most violent of these are accompanied by slick, bloody animations and appropriately gory-sounding 
 thwacks and slashes. Timing these various moves can be tricky, but like in the previous games, 
 eventually the subtleties of your combos will click, and in time you'll be pulling enemies toward 
 you, slashing them into bite-size pieces, and smashing them into one another with glee.  

  The devil-bringer moves go a long way, which is probably a good thing, given that Nero has neither 
 as varied an arsenal as Dante nor access to multiple fighting styles. However, he does have his 
 standard sword, the red queen, and a revolver known as blue rose, and later on he earns another 
 weapon that franchise fans will enjoy seeing in action. As you progress, you will earn proud souls 
 based on your performance in any given mission, and with them, you can purchase new combos and 
 upgrade existing ones. And you'll need them to handle droves of demons that get progressively tougher -- and 
 which are awesome to look at, to boot. You can choose these new moves individually, or you can 
 let the game autoselect them for you based on how varied you want your array of attacks to be. 
 It's worth noting that you can't really make a mistake here; if you don't like the move, or if 
 there is a more powerful upgrade available to you, you can unlearn what you have purchased for 
 a full refund and use the souls for something else.  

           In Devil May Cry 4, style is substance.      

  You'll also encounter a number of secret 
 missions scattered around, and you'll no doubt find them to be the most challenging aspect of the 
 game. In some cases, you have to execute a certain move a set number of times in a row, or dispatch 
 every demon within the allotted time. Although those missions are challenging, others require you 
 to have purchased a particular move before you can manage it. If at first it seems that some of 
 these missions are simply unbeatable, have faith and return to it later. There's a good chance 
 that you were simply missing a piece of the puzzle. You aren't required to do these missions, but 
 the orb fragment that you earn is a perfectly fine reward, and accomplishing these difficult tasks 
 is incredibly gratifying.     

   

  About halfway through the game, you'll take control of Dante, and you'll likely go through a period 
 of adjustment while you get used to the change in gameplay techniques. Frankly, the devil bringer 
 is a great mechanic, and losing it is a bit of a disappointment, considering that it's likely to 
 be the center of your fighting style. Instead, you'll have a new set of actions and combos to get 
 used to, new weapons, and four (eventually five) fighting styles. Yet once your arsenal of melee 
 weapons and guns expands (Pandora's Box is a favorite) , you'll enjoy their cheerful boldness. There's 
 a lot more variety here than with Nero, and it's a lot of fun to switch styles and weapons on the 
 fly, just to find more interesting and flashy ways of crushing demons to a pulp.  

           The bosses are huge and fun to fight.      

  In addition to the dazzling action, you'll 
 work your way through some light puzzles and platforming sequences. The puzzles aren't tough, but 
 they do require you to roam around a bit from time to time, bashing on some switches, using a special 
 device to slow down time, and accomplishing some other odds and ends. They help break up the pace, 
 but all too often these breaks result in lulls that last a bit too long, making you long for another 
 crazy demon attack. Some of the platform sequences are fine, requiring you to use the devil bringer 
 as a grappling hook to fling yourself around, though some of the more standard sequences suffer 
 from bad camera angles and an annoying tendency for the camera to change positions in midjump. 

  Don't let the variety of weaponry and special moves lull you into believing that the rest of Devil 
 May Cry 4's design is similarly diverse. In fact, the many different ways of killing enemies is 
 quite a stark contrast to the repetition at the heart of the experience. It's true that backtracking 
 and repeated environments have been a problem in past games in the series, but the newest entry 
 takes these issues to an even higher level of monotony. Many successive levels take place in the 
 same castle hallways and forest meadows, and when you switch to Dante, you visit them all over 
 again. Granted, most of these areas are easy on the eyes due to their gorgeous architecture and 
 grand outdoor vistas. Yet when you see them over and over again, and when some of the simple puzzles 
 have you traipsing back and forth, you will wish for new sights. It has the effect of making a 
 seemingly grand adventure feel oddly limited.  

  That repetition even makes its way into the admittedly spectacular boss fights. These battles are 
 easily the shining star of Devil May Cry 4, and each boss is wildly different from the last, requiring 
 split-second timing and good control over your reflexes. From a giant toad to a hulking stone behemoth, 
 these bosses are cleverly designed and a good deal of fun. Yet as Dante in the second half of the 
 game, you'll face all of the same bosses that you fought as Nero. Although the game could have 
 benefitted from some new blood during these missions, the differences in styles between the two 
 at least lend some diversity to the repeated bosses and test the newest additions to your arsenal. 
 However, amazingly (and irritatingly) , Capcom brings most of them out for a third time in the game's 
 padded and plodding penultimate mission. Yes, these fights are fun, but forcing most of them on 
 you three times is overkill.  

  On consoles, Devil May Cry 4 is beautiful; on the PC, it positively dazzles. The game includes 
 DirectX 9 and DirectX 10 modes, and both look spectacular and run beautifully. Both Nero and Dante 
 are fluid in motion, and they showcase a good deal of flair and subtlety in their movements. The 
 more damage a move does, the more astonishing it looks onscreen, and few games can approach the 
 pure razzle-dazzle of Nero jumping into the air, his cape flying and the glowing devil bringer 
 tossing lumbering demons around with matchless grace. From an environmental design standpoint, 
 the visuals can be gorgeous to behold, and moments like your first glimpse of Gran Album Bridge 
 are bound to take your breath away.  

           It's hard to focus on the action when the scenery looks so beautiful.      

  The sound 
 design, like the storytelling, is merrily over the top. The vibrant brutality of your most impressive 
 moves is accompanied by equally squeamish and powerful sound effects. Fortunately, the talented 
 voice cast never hams it up, even when delivering the most melodramatic lines. As Nero, Johnny 
 Yong Bosch can be both remarkably sincere and sneeringly sarcastic, and his superb acting makes 
 for one of the most appealing new game characters to be introduced in some time. But you may not 
 find the music as universally appealing. This is the one area where Devil May Cry 4 feels too clichd; 
 it relies on the standard heavy-metal grinds that accompany most demon-inspired games and films, 
 and replays the same couple of tunes during combat ad nauseam. Luckily, it never gets in the way, 
 so though it may not stand out, it doesn't stick out, either.  

  The PC version doesn't support online leaderboards, but it includes two excellent additions: Legendary 
 Dark Knight mode and turbo speed. LDK mode fills the screen with insane numbers of demons at a 
 time and delivers plenty of excitement without becoming unfairly difficult. You can turn on turbo 
 speed before heading into a mission, which hastens the tempo and makes for a great thumb workout. 
 All told, Devil May Cry 4 is a great game, and it delivers a lot of quality action that will please 
 fans without alienating those new to the series. If you liked previous entries, you'll find what 
 you're looking for here; and if you were turned off by Devil May Cry 3's insane challenge, then 
 you'll feel a lot more comfortable this time around.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (111 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dstevens
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game is just right. As you play through the several difficulty levels, you 
 are rewarded with more and more details about the artwork etc. I chose to start at a more difficult 
 level, since I have played Devil May Cry 3. My recommendation would be to start at the easy level 
 so you can get the combinations down. In the harder levels, the ability to flow from one combination 
 to the next is a must. This game, like its predecessor, benefits from using a game pad. I found 
 the keyboard technique doable however difficult to master. The game does benefit from a more robust 
 computer but is still playable at the minimum requirements. You can choose to start from DMC 4 
 but it is a continuation from the DMC 3 storyline. Anyway, if you like kicking some you know what, 
 you will enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siddarthshetty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 4:15 am PT
Review:  What can i say i liked all part of the game the reason why i gave 9.5 is we should battle with 
 ever main devils for 3 times which is quite annoying..
  There is a lot of improvement in the game than from the previous edition that is devil may cry 
 3.. I really liked dante in the game but in this nero is awesome...
  Nero does not have variety of attacks as dante who can change into three different forms but still 
 her arm is just unstoppable ever time get more orbs u can select different attacks also those attacks 
 are very cool..
  The graphics in the game is very good, music is all good and the most wonderful is your combat style 
 the better u make the move u can go up to sss (name given for each starting from d, c, b, a, s, ss, sss) 
 
  In the first 10 missions u will be playing as nero in next 9 dante will save u in final mission 
 it time for nero to finish the job
  I am waiting for DMC 5 since the story continues i think nero is dante's son!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurtaj
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  I did not expect so much from the game. the game was the most addictive game I have ever played. 
 The first thing that will catch your attention is Graphics. everything in the game including environments 
 and characters is laid out very well. the game was totally bug free. the game can be played at 
 low-end machines. I enjoyed the most while playing as Dante. the game has been made in a very stylish 
 manner. All the Cutscenes are very stylish and impressive. Another best part of the game is characters 
 of Nero and Dante are very daring. The action sequences in the game are just amazing and some enemies 
 are sweet enough to be teared apart. the timing plays a very important role in boss fight. the 
 game was long enough to keep me engaged and I played the game in all difficulty levels. The story 
 of the game has many twists and unpredictable events. I could not make out whether the game is 
 set in ancient times or the present as you will see cars, buses, heavy machinery and there are castles, tombs 
 and ancient monuments. The game is must buy for action lovers as this is the only game which provides 
 action along with great style. well done Capcom. keep it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:17 am PT
Review:  I remembered trying out DMC3 special edition. Gameplay was just horrific. I literally uninstalled 
 after 15 mins. I saw a demo version of DMC4 on the xbox in the mall and tried it. It got me interested. 
 I played it on my PC with the keyboard but I would recommend a game-pad cause it is pretty hard-core 
 on your palm bones if you play through the whole game in 2 days with the keyboard with all the 
 crazy and endless variety of manouveurs.
  
  The game has been well ported & optimized for PC.
  I can turn everything to high and max resolution 
 HDTV directx10
  on my notebook Nvidia 9600Mobile GT
  with no lag and looks realistically real unlike many newly released games, looked fake and lags 
 like ****
  and this is one of the best looking game that my humble GPU can handle to the max! and i am only 
 using a multi-media notebook for only mid-range gaming. Nero and Dante just looks so realistic 
 and the lighting are done perfectly on their skin. It doesnt look cartoony at all, the environtments, 
 monsters.
  
  This is probably one of the best hack and slash action RPG game I have ever played on the PC. the 
 Boss levels are extremely re-playable over and over again, not just because the outstanding detail 
 of graphics, but because these bosses and so perfectly done, it is just hard enough to a point 
 where you'll defeat them with you almost dead most of the time.
  
  -----------------
  You won't die alot in the game even in boss stages, the difficulty is done just right 10/10 stars. 
 Which also means you won't have to keep replaying a particular part. Because the game is so well 
 done, You WILL choose to replay it yourself, you can even choose which chapter to replay! or just 
 dive straight into bosses, after you complete the game.
  You will definitely replay it unless you got a whole lot of other new games to play like me. I 
 definitely went back there some time.
  -----------------
  
  The characters are PERFECT!
  At first I liked Nero easy to play style. When the game transitions 
 to Dante, I didn't like him at all because I never played the previous DMC versions. But after 
 playing around with him and on my journey to save Nero, I discovered that Dante IS A WHOLE LOT 
 MORE FUN THAN NERO. You gotta discover it to know. When I transition back to Nero it was just boring. 
 But that was near the end of the game where you fight the final boss where it is just plain fun.
 
  
  And the dice maps are replayable too as you pass each level you fight a boss :)
  
  They don't make games like this anymore, great great graphics with low requirements. I took away 
 from the score because monsters are abit lacking in graphical variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobishobi
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 10:15 am PT
Review:  I was allways say "no game is perfect" until i meet devil may cry.
  its the best game E-V-E-R!!
  im think il not meet game beder than that!
  gameplay- awsome!!
 
  grafices- look nearly real!
  cleaver- its not realy hard to see what to do.
  spaicel item's- i realy liked the idea of blue orb and blue orb peace.
  I realy liked the weapons 
 they was fun to play with them.
  the must thig i realy realy mad on it.
  THAT YAMATO IS A STYLE!
  i was see gameplay's and things i was sure yamato is a weapon!
  it 
 was beder if yamato was weapon.
  the outher games of DMC was good too.
  but nore 1+2 they was baddddd....
  DMC3 give the honor to dmc.
  i was hope that the game wil 
 not by so short.
  its a bit short.
  the bloody place its amazing idea!
  even that i stoped to play dmc i each day i can i do one time bloody place!
  well this my review 
 to DMC4 cya next time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codename_halo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:18 am PT
Review:  ok, as i stated above this game is under appreciated, and i was sort of disappointed to see its not 
 an editor's choice in gamespot, this game perfectly fulfills what it's come to fulfill which is 
 a great hack-and-slash action adventure with fantastic gameplay and control over characters (both 
 nero and dante) , and if you are looking for some good old fashioned boss challenge believe me, you 
 are in the right place cause there will be some truly epic battle moments you won't forget (and 
 if you are playing it on legendary dark knight difficulty then there will be some tears every time 
 you defeat one of them that you wont forget!) , and lets not forget about the cinematic-quality graphics 
 and action sequences which at times just makes you astounded, and the story and dialogues were as 
 great for me, you have a great mixture of love, hate, betrayal, vengeance and also humor all together 
 which makes this a great epic adventure if you have what it takes for it, style!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: territorial1
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Blah Blah Blah. It was good while it lasted. Great Graphics and looked like an arcade game. After 
 finishing the game, could we please use either one of the characters in any of the maps that we 
 choose?
  Why not have more characters to play to mix it up a little? I spent more time hammering on the control 
 pad buttons than anything trying to do trick moves. Fingers hurt like h#LL. How many times you have 
 to Slash someone in the head with a Sword before they fall to their knees? This game makes carpal 
 tunnel easy to get if you keep playing it long enough, trying to do new tricks. Why do I have to 
 keep tying to get this review to go through? I give you the points on what is should have had and 
 what it didn't need to. So DMC was perty on the outside but after an hour or more of playing your 
 fingers feel kinda numb. This is bull.. I'm going to play COD so my hands don't feel like sh#t. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku32
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 3:02 am PT
Review:  This is my first time playing the Devil may Cry games and I must say that the game is amazing.
 
  
  First the story is good and keeps you hooked on the game, how Dante can be the antagonist of the 
 game after the other games he has always been the protagonist, all the mystery will be solved when 
 you continue.
  
  Another thing that I like of this game are the graphics, the graphics look great with this game 
 and you will see different places like a city, castle and even a jungle that are well detailed.
 
  
  The Devil Trigger coulndt have looked better, you will have to use this transformations sometimes 
 when there are alot of enemies or you are fighting a boss, this transformation will boost your 
 powers and also you will heal in a fast pace.
  
  In the gameplay, Nero brings his right arm, the devil bringer, and with that you can add more combos 
 with his sword the Red Queen and his gun the Blue rose but Dante still wins, he has four styles 
 (Trickster, Swordmaster, Royal Guard and Gunsliger) , and also as you continue you will get new 
 weapons for Dante, sadly Dante has a fewer missions than Nero.
  
  What kept this game for getting a perfect score is that in the PC using your keyboard might be 
 frustrating and if you dont have a gamepad you will have a hard time and also in Dante missions 
 you will be in the same places that Nero were, no new places and that you must fight like 3 times 
 each boss, still this game is good and anyone being a fan or not must play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skajo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:32 am PT
Review:  The game starts really good i am not a DMC fan but i got really addicted with this release (First 
 time in dmc) . i am loving the game when PAHHH .. Nero gets raped and Dantes shows ups .. OO yeee 
 lets do all over again. :\ don't think so . 
  I picked up the Dante and abandon it gathering dust in the shelf. poor guy!!
  
  Game: 9 in 
 10 
  Amazing game, its fast with lots of action, the interaction with enemies are excellent, with 5 
 min of experience you are able to feel the character on you, or you in character :P 
  I only don't give it 10 cause the existence of Dante!
  
  Graphics: 10 in 10 
  Just Perfect. 
 i have played with dx9 cause my graphic card slow down with dx10, but its incredible how the textures 
 are beautiful. the physics, the HDR, the light effects. can't describe!
  PERFECT
  
  Sound: 8 in 10
  Good, when we are in the heat of the battle, its impossible to give attention 
 to the sound, you just be able to think in "Get over here"
  and keep hitting creatures all the time. 
  
  Replay: 5 in 10
  Maybe one day ! Soon .. this 
 review is making me want to play it again..
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilly
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 23, 2009 12:11 pm PT
Review:  The opening scene looks great! I was ready to get into the game, and all of a sudden, I noticed 
 I couldn't even control my guy! I'm an old school PC game kind of guy, I refuse to use a game pad. 
 If I wanted to use a game pad, I'd buy a console machine. This game just sucks to not incorporate 
 proper controls for the PC IMO. I don't know, I really didn't look to hard for options to maybe 
 set it up for keyboard and mouse control, maybe there in there. Anyway, I gave it to a kid I know.
 
  
  They should tell you in the game description how the control features of these new games are. Whether 
 keyboard, and mouse, or the damn game pad controller.
  
  "Assassins Creed" is the same way...
  
  I just bought "The Witcher", and "Dead Space" off Ebay. 
 They haven't arrived yet, but I sure hope there PC old school! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suratharajan
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2009 6:34 am PT
Review:  I've been so much excited when i heard the news of it's release........ then i was waiting for its 
 release then the demo came ......... then i bought this game and made a fuss .......... it all starts 
 when they show neo with his new devil arm kills some demons and makes is way to the church where 
 his love sings a beautiful song and they say about some **** which is mythological and here comes 
 our Hero Mr. Dante whoaaaaa what an intro ......... he kill the priest of the church and now we are 
 playing as neo and its an easy battle with dante and the show the tutorials on how to use powers 
 and other kinds of stuffs and when the fight is over we start our level on finding the mystery 
 behind the monsters and some fishy things going on only then we are about to discover that the 
 priest who dante killed in the first scene was the bad guy after all. so they want us to be researched 
 because we have a powerful devil hand and the only thing that rocks is the styles that neo and 
 dante undertake .......... giving wonderful jokes is dante's style and making funny quotes is neo's 
 style ........... the background music is wonderful and the shattering of glass pieces is completely 
 superb ......... surprises are the only thing in this series which made it more interesting .......... ending 
 was just too short and if at all they would have extended the hours of game play and location would 
 have been long and different respectively this game would have been in the editors choice list 
 ............. now at the end of the game we are putting down the controller in the idea of playing 
 the fifth part of the devil may cry series ............... loved it and wont forget the funny dialogues.............. lol 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sereka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 12:55 am PT
Review:  When a young guy like Nero meets Dante... Oh, you get best fighting scenes you have ever seen. This 
 DMC has impressive graphics and cool music, that grows on you with every strike of your blade. Furthermore, movies 
 after almost every fight makes sure you keep in touch with the game story. The other good thing 
 is your fighting style. If you do it unexceptionably and mix your gun technique with your blade 
 technique, you will get points for doing it right. You can boast yourself in front of your friends 
 and say that you got SSS out of it. Just imagine their faces when they get green out of envy. And, when 
 the mission ends, you get your score (it includes how fast you completed your task, how great you 
 fight and how many orbs you collected) . Of course, you get to be Dante, too. You will need some time 
 if you want to learn to control all of his moves. I aced his moves in six hours, but it was hard 
 for me. I have bad reaction. So, anyway... While playing DMC4 the song that is played by Jason "SheBoy" 
 Arnold gets stuck in your head and you just can't get it out... 
  "The time has come and so have I
  I'll laugh last cause you came to die
  The damage done, the 
 pain subsides
  and I can see the fear clear when I look in your eye..."
  
  IT DOES MAGIC IN YOUR BRAIN, believe me.
  Anyway, you should try Devil May Cry 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vergil_TDS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 may have an unusual story line for the Devil May Cry series, but this isn't a bad 
 thing necessarily. It still has something to do with Sparta which is slightly unnerving how many 
 things he's done to date but that's okay.
  Now out of everything in Devil May Cry 4 there are only two big issues that cause frustration or 
 a sense of monotony. Firstly, there is a dice mini-game placed in that artificially lengthens missions, 
 there's no real strategy for this it just causes frustration especially in mission 19 where the 
 whole level is consumed by it and you can be left for up to an hour watching a piece move around 
 in a circle. Secondly all the games in the Devil May Cry series have had the revisiting of areas 
 later on in the game, this is no exception for Devil May Cry 4, now usually this isn't a problem 
 except the areas seem to change very little and feels somewhat uninspired as the changes tend to 
 be either very small or very cheap such as teleporting black clouds.
  Other than those two issues Devil May Cry 4 is a good game if they weren't present. The combat 
 is still fairly intuitive allowing you to do intricate combos and Nero's unusual sword that revs 
 up to do more damage faster interesting. Dante's move set is mainly copied from DMC 3 with some 
 from DMC 1 as well as a few unique moves. He retains styles but can switch them on the fly which 
 can lead to some interesting combinations of sword and gun play as well as dodging and blocking. 
 However the game plays on the easy side Mainly with two bosses having the more irritating quotient 
 rather than the hard quotient.
  The story while while still following the clich what Sparta has done before us Nero does help 
 to break away from it. Though the inclusion of Dante part way through could have been possibly 
 done better if it was done as a parallel storyline so you can get both sides of the story but then 
 one storyline may have not been fully fleshed out...
  I relation to the other games of the series I'd say Devil May Cry 3 and 1 a fairly even then Devil 
 May Cry 4 mainly because of how frustrating the dice section is. Ohh and DMC 2? Well let's keep 
 that corpse buried cause it probably smells by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vikaserge
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 26, 2009 9:39 am PT
Review:  I quite enjoy arcade type games and playing with a controller, so I was quite excited after reading 
 reviews on the game and decided to get it. Things started quite well, nice graphics, great controller 
 combo hits. But as I carried on, two things really made me hate the game. Firstly, the camera angles 
 really and I mean REALLY started to bug me; the camera control is limited (short left/right movement) 
 and at times (many times) you absolutely can't rotate the view, meaning that you're stuck looking 
 wherever the game wants you to look. What I really hated was when you run and can't see in front 
 of you!!??! What the heck??! At times I really felt like throwing the controller on the wall.
 
  Secondly, even though you discover new combo combinations throughout the game, they'll start feeling 
 quite repetitive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ajdin_crazy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 10:22 am PT
Review:  every body loves to have fun when it comes to fighting and that is just what Devil May Cry gives 
 to players... The story is very good... bu th for those who didnt play the previous part will find 
 it confusing...
  
  1. The Fighting/Controls : For Pc players it will be very easy to adjust to the controls..... if 
 you have a joystick it will be even more entertaining...... You can couse betwine Automatic and 
 Manual... In automatic mode you just have to press the key couple times and Nero / Dante will do 
 everything them selfs.....
  
  2. Story : Very entertaining story... It combines a Love story and a Story off a young man searching 
 for his future... Characters are very detailed...
  
  
  3. Graphic / Sound : Graphic is just the way its ment to be.... textures are very well done and 
 its just amazing to watch.... Voices are perfect ...... in some moments you will file like you 
 are in the game... like you are a part of the game... 
  
  4. The bad stuff : On the other hand there are some anoying things like getting killd or having 
 to go back for things you forget.... 
  
  Final grade iz 9.0 ... so if you like this tipe of a game you should buy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avatarIVN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:55 am PT
Review:  This is my first review of a game so I hope you enjoy reading it.. 
  Devil May Cry 4 is an excellent game in general lines. I will focus on the general aspects in order 
 to give an idea of the game (So, don't expect me to tell you how to complete the game) , and the 
 remarkable stuff.
  Gameplay: The  is what makes DMC a great game. DMC4 follows 
 the fighting system of its predecessors: kill as many as you can but with style. Smashing the attack 
 button repeatedly simply doesn't work. Instead you have to use a variety of moves to kill those 
 demons and raise your style meter. For those new in the series: each time you do a combo (example: 
 triangle, triangle, circle) a green bar with a letter above will appear at the right side of the 
 screen. That is your style meter, the letter varies from D to SSS, being SSS the highest. When 
 you raise your style meter properly (mixing attacks, dodging in the right moment, etc) the enemies 
 you destroy will drop more orbs and your "style ranking" at the end of the level will rise. The 
 fighting method of DMC is ratter like a 2D RPG (Role-Playing Game) . You begin a level and you have 
 to get yourself alive "to the other end", fight demons, fight a boss and complete the level. What 
 makes great DMC is that you have to do it in 3D. Other games do the same too, but most of them 
 end up in a mess where you can't control the situation perfectly: the character doesn't move decently, 
 the enemies are too aggressive or don't move at all, the mechanics are dumb, the game is boringly 
 repetitive, etc. In resume, most games with this idea don't deserve to be bought. In DMC the movement 
 is fluid and the fighting is really fun once you get used to the controls. I highly recommend using 
 a gamepad with analog sticks because your movement would be kind of imprecise on a keyboard. How 
 you complete the game: you have to complete all 20 missions of the game. There are seven difficulties 
 you can choose from (only the easy and medium are available from the beginning) . Once you complete 
 the game in a difficulty, you receive a bonus picture. In addition, the other difficulties can 
 be unlocked once you complete the game. In my humble opinion, the extras are not a good reason 
 to play this game over and over again. The fun it's on the challenge of completing in Dante Must 
 Die mode. In my humble opinion, once you complete Dante Must Die mode, it's over. Some people will 
 agree with me, most people don't, but that's an individual choice. You decide.
  
  Story: Generally, Capcom games lack of an interesting story you love to read about. In most cases, 
 the story is silly and you don't have to worry about it to complete the game. In this case, the 
 story was acceptable, although in the end it's just eliminating all demons.
  
  Boss Fights: the bosses in DMC 4 are exciting and fairly challenging. Most of the bosses are bigger 
 than you, but not for that it is easy to take them down. You will find out that fighting a boss 
 is completely different from fighting big demons; as for each boss has its own moves you have to 
 learn in order to win. Nevertheless, it would have been good to put different boss fights instead 
 of having to fights almost each boss three times during the game.
  
  Graphics and Performance: Since this a review of the PC version, the graphics are important to 
 mention. The game run perfectly with a 256MB video card (Personally, I recommend any of the NVIDIA 
 GeForce 8 series) at high resolution (1024 X 800) . Also, it's completely useless to buy this game 
 without having at least 128MB of video memory available, because the game makes good use of video 
 memory. I honestly consider DMC 4 has excellent graphics without having to buy a nuclear-powered 
 PC or expensive-to-death graphic cards. The loading screens during the game usually appeared at 
 the end of the level and were passed fast (about 2-5 seconds each) . The processor I used is a Core 
 2 Duo, but I think as long you have a Pentium Dual Core or superior, are more than enough. However, 
 you should notice the performance test option on the main menu of the game. In resume, DMC 4 is 
 an excellent game with the so-loved action and beautiful graphics. The game doesn't do anything 
 new from previous DMC, but this game it's the best of the saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gvidzix
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 2:25 am PT
Review:  Some good points.
  
  1) Let's start with graphics - they are amazing , even if you are playing on minimal requirements 
 it's still very good. You may find , see some glitches , I didn't :D.
  
  2) Game-play - no words , 5 of 5 , you might have some trouble when facing backwards or somewhere 
 else , but its traditional for DMC games , you get used to it after a while in game.
  
  3) Difficulty - from easy to hard or even very hard , depends on player and his skill , if speaking 
 about me Human mode - in the beginning it was enough , Dante must die - i had to practice some 
 time , couldn't finish it without stars (items used to get back some of lost health or demon trigger 
 bar) .
  
  4) The humor in game , cut scenes and the characters of the game are awesome.
  
  I think that is fair enough to know about the good points.
  
  
  And hardly , some bad 
 points.
  
  1) If in DMC 3 twenty missions was enough , then in DMC 4 it wasn't enough :D , there could have 
 been more of them.
  
  And if speaking about missions , Dante had only few missions , not like in DMC 3 where Vergil had 
 to go trough all twenty missions.
  
  2) Nero could have had some more additional things like weapons or devil-arms , moves and so on.
 
  
  3) Game or your own game play might make you angry at some points :D
  
  I won't think more about this bad-ass games bad points :) .
  
  All in all this is one of the 
 best games i have ever played , and i have played a lot of games now for 13 years starting with 
 a Dendy (card games) and spectrum games.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmanr93
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:32 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 was the first game from DMC series I played. Another great action game. Devil May 
 Cry 4 is more of the same, but the same will always be fun! XD... A revolutionary release of the 
 devil may cry series. With a new character, new gameplay and great new story. Nero and Dante keep 
 the slick action flowing well in DMC4. An amazing addition of creativity in plot and story to an 
 equally creative series, using repetition wisely. A great story.. A great game... Challenging Fights.. Thrilling 
 action... Some great visuals, gameplay and some great characters.. What else do you need?! Magnificent. 
 Cut scenes are the best I've ever seen. I played the game on key-board and its amazing even without 
 a controller. 
  
  Devil May Cry 4 immerses gamers in a gothic supernatural world, where a new protagonist clashes 
 with a familiar hero. As the new leading man, Nero, players will unleash incredible attacks and 
 non-stop combos using a unique new gameplay mechanic, his powerful "Devil Bringer" arm, while Dante 
 remains the Best character in the game. Dynamic action and undeniable style combine with explosive 
 fighting options and a gripping story to produce the incomparable experience that only a Devil 
 May Cry game can deliver. This is the best Hack n Slash action game ever and the best in DMC series.
 
  
  Gameplay - 10 (Highly addictive)
  Graphics - 10
  Sound - 10
  Story - 10
  Overall - 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seto_Akari
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is a terrific game! I've played it many times on my PC , the replay value is very 
 high. You will meet a new character - Nero with his demonic arm called Devil Bringer. You will control 
 Nero through most mission in the game. His arm is very powerful that can perform many deadly combo 
 and have another abilities like reach distant objects or grab and hold enemy. You will be using 
 this arm very often in the game when playing Nero. Our hero , Dante is playable , but sadly , just 
 have 6 missions. Dante has more weapon than Nero such as Pandora , Lucifer , ... that helps him 
 perform many stylish combo! I love the pandora best! The PC version have a exclusive mode called 
 Legendary Dark Knight. This mode is so terrific! You will try your best to fight with large waves 
 of demons (More than 10 or 20 enemy/time. Especially mission 17~The whole screen) .
  The graphic is very great and so is the sound. This is a MUST HAVE game for DMC's fans and PC gamers 
 who love hack n slash. It won't be a waste of time playing Devil May Cry 4. Buy it now! Believe me 
 , you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivion-IV
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  A game with very good graphics, awesome sound, one of the best action hack-slash games out there. It 
 gives the ability to control the 2 main characters-Nero and Dante-and increase their power and 
 their abilities as you like. It also haves great cutscenes and an outstanding story.
  
  However it is very short until you first finish in easy mode, Capcom tried to hied this using many 
 facinating extras and unlockables... she succeeded.
  
  A very good game, anyone who likes hack and slash games and many extras or is a fun of the series, should 
 buy this game.
  
  Graphics:8,5
  Sound:9,5
  Story:8,5
  Gameplay:8,5
  Replayabillity:8
  Time:7,5
  Cutscenes:9
  
  Personal comment: I liked this game until I finished 
 it but after that I was very bored to replay it. I guess I ain't the extras guy! 
  
  -Oblivion IV about DMC4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helix_105
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  A new devil may cry that starts off withan amazing tutorial that will make any new devil may cry 
 players confortable with the controls.
  
  3d environement 9/10
  
  battle system 9/10
  
  Story 10/10
  
  Dialogue 10/10
  
  Boss battles 10/10
  
  puzzles 8/10
  
  reoccuring 
 baddies 7.5/10
  
  Library of moves 8/10
  
  Cutscenes 9.5/10
  
  Originality 8.5/10
  
  Play it more than once 9/10
  
  You will not getbored of this game. 
 People find it hard cuz its not straight forward. A game that you can play more than once and not 
 get bored of.
  
  Were all different in rating some are fans so there ratings might b to generous. I dont hate and 
 love one type of game. Tried to be the less biased possible.
  If u read this take the time to agree with me or disagree. I hope u enjoyed my shared opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: votc200
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Though the consoles versions were already epic enough, the PC port of DMC4 did everything right.
 
  
  I have played the whole game 2 times on PS3, and last night and over today, I have played the whole 
 PC version. Without a doubt this game on highest settings looks WAY better then the consoles. I 
 was playing at 120+ FPS on highest of highest settings, and I was blown away by the graphics, sound 
 effects, and especially the detail and realism in the environment.
  
  This is simply a MUST HAVE for the hack n slash lovers, I highly recommend if you have a PC that 
 can handle DMC4 on highest settings or near it, this is a Must have.
  
  The PC Exclusive content (Legendary Dark Knight Mode) Is extremely fun and challenging to top it 
 all off. Nothing more epic then slicing through waves of enemys by the 20+ packs it throws at you, 
 and coming out the other side with total satsifcation if you managed to survive through the whole 
 thing. Not only are the piles massive, but there is a bunch of mixed enemys in the piles, enemy's 
 that arn't suppose to be there that soon in the game, makes it all the better and more challenging. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolabd619
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  hi
  
  graphics 9/10
  
  this game got very high graphics and better than devil may cry 3 but there's a fault that when 
 u r with nero if u stop at the moment the red queen comes's from the clothes but good graphics
 
  
  gameplay 10/10
  
  the game has a very good gameplay and more demon killing but they didn't gave much things to nero 
 to use. dante got pandora, giglamesh and lucifer which makes dante a littile bit good than nero and 
 i think giglamesh would be the best weapon to use in the game
  
  
  music 7/10
  
  they got the old songs from devil may cry 3 in the background. i have not played devil may cry 
 1,2 this makes dissapointing to listen an old song but nero got the good one
  
  i hope u like my review
  thanks
  now to complete words i am gonna copy the condition to right 
 reveiw. my review finish's here.
  bye
  
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time-you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CARWFMHITMAN
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  For a game of such graphical quality, it doesn't require a lot of high performance PC to play because 
 on Vista it runs on 1GB ram, but if one would like to play it on full settings, I suggest that 
 a very strong graphic card and procesor and more RAM are needed & I've found no bugs while playing.
 
  The gameplay is simply awesome, and if you complete the game on diferent dificulites more are 
 unlocked, and some are very dificult that the only way to survive is by using the great combos 
 and by doing so ranking up rank combos.
  Even the upgrades are awesome. Not only the sword and Devil trigger ones but also the special abilities 
 and sword ones, and so the player will find it easier to have a better strategy and send those 
 demons BACK TO HELL!
  This game is simply the future for PC games, becuase it's a sign that more Console games will be 
 released on PC also, it's fair for everyone, I mean, you don't need to buy a Gaming console to 
 play your favorite games, especially for recreational gamers, like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  sadly... only 6 mission with our buddy dante :-| unlike DMC3 special edition, you will be playing 
 characters specific to each level, intead of having 2 different savegame files for each character. 
 thats right! nero gets some cutscenes for himself! and even though nero is named after a demented 
 roman emperor/CD burning tool, hes an amazing character!!! his devil trigger will overpower his 
 arm attacks, and no, this isnt your average hand to hand weapon, its a grabbing weapon, where you 
 beat your enemies out of breath with it.
  
  
  ah, yes the enemies. they arent so tough now, they move slower than a guy weighing 600 pounds, 
 (the first ones) and are killed easily. but the later ones, you may have some trouble with. but 
 thats why you have weapons at your disposal, but not a wide variety like DMC3,
  
  nero has a pointy dangerous toy called the red rose, with some decent combos. neros other weapon, 
 is his gun, a desert eagle revolver, that will kill things quite nicely, its sort of in-between 
 dante's dual pistols and shotgun, with fire rate and damage mixed in. and its got a nice charge 
 attack.
  
  Nero's devil trigger will make his gun fire lockon shurikens, similar to Vergil's summoned blades 
 in the special edition of devil may cry 3. and yes, get that one before this one so you understand 
 the story and enjoy the game more.
  
  
  DMC4 doesnt follow the original story, with only 3 of the original characters, excluding the giant 
 sparda statue. Dante, Trish and Lady are the originals, and they only show up in cutscenes. 
  
  this game has some system requirements that i will now post
  
  OS: Windows XP/Vista
  
 Processor: Pentium 4 @ 3 GHz
  Memory: 512 MB (1 GB for Vista)
  Hard Drive: 8 GB Free
  Video Memory: 256 MB (nVidia GeForce 6600 SM3 Required)
  Sound Card: DirectX Compatible
  DirectX: 
 9.0c
  Keyboard & Mouse
  DVD Rom Drive
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamilinho19
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry... What can I say :D title say everything ,one of the best slasher series ever made 
 backs in glory to fans. Story let us to control new character Nero ,his devil arm in (my opinion) makes 
 this game too easy, Dante levels makes more fun ,old Rebellion and Ebony & Ivory still rocks the 
 game. Really i dont like the new character i think without him the game should be better... but 
 it still great game with sick gameplay and brand new cool graphics i think you should enjoy it 
 and dont waste your time playing it, boss fight are still great, music makes good slashing feeling 
 :D So i think this game could be perfect without Nero... it's the same as in mgs2 sons of liberty.. 
 they change the character but i dont really understand them... In fact its the best HD slasher right 
 now so you should think about buying it if you dont have it right now :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pe6o_91
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I can't figure Capcom out. The developer goes to the trouble of bringing one of its console hits 
 to the PC, and then puts out a port that doesn't have anything new or interesting for PC gamers. 
 Sure, it's Devil May Cry 4, and by golly, its enhanced high-res visuals sure look swell. But if 
 you're going to port a game to the PC, you should take advantage of the most versatile platform 
 out there. DMC4 fails to do so.
  
  Granted, the game plays great. It's the same intense, stylish demon-killing we've come to expect 
 from the series -- repetitiveness and all. The visuals sparkle, and even at the highest settings, 
 my modest videocard had no problems handling the load -- no stuttering or jaggies. And the game 
 didn't crash once during my playthrough. The boys at Capcom know how to make a good-looking, technically 
 sound game -- but they have problems tailoring it to the PC.
  
  The PC features include improved visuals and a new "Legendary" difficulty mode, which puts enough 
 enemies onscreen to qualify as an entry in the Dynasty Warriors series. It's a helluva challenge 
 (I'm not a seasoned DMC player, so I struggled to get through the first level on this mode) , so 
 I'd say it's a worthwhile addition for really hardcore action game fans. But its inclusion in the 
 PC port really makes me question the wisdom of the developers. Hardcore DMC fans would appreciate 
 this mode most... but aren't those folks playing DMC on a console? This would be a great treat as 
 downloadable content for consoles, but it almost seems like wasted effort here.
  
  Mouse support is another issue: According to our review of last year's Resident Evil 4 PC port, 
 the game doesn't support a mouse -- and Capcom repeats this omission in DMC4. Your best bet is 
 the Xbox 360 gamepad, and it works quite well, too. You can also use the keyboard -- movement uses 
 the standard WASD keys, and combat keys are set to your right hand -- but I found this to be an 
 inconvenient (and uncomfortable!) way to play the game. I would've appreciated even token mouse 
 control instead of the flurry of keystrokes that accompany every round of combat.
  
  DMC4 is technically solid, and those who enjoy action games (and don't mind repetitiveness -- you 
 face some of the bosses three times!) should give it a whirl. But its lack of enticing PC features 
 leaves me wondering if Capcom sees the PC as either a worthy platform or just a place for well-playing 
 but otherwise ho-hum ports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:12 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games of 2008 i have played and i seriously feel this needs to be atleast 
 nominated for the GOTY if not win it.
  
  So, Devil May Cry 4 is the fourth installment in the Highly Popular DMC Series. This game has a 
 new character called Nero who is amazing.
  
  Story - The Story is not great like DMC 3 and that's the main reason that it is rated below it. 
 Very simple story. You begin with the young guy named Nero with his girlfriend Kyrie in the Church 
 where the Prophet is giving the Speech. Suddenly Dante makes an appearance and gives a headshot 
 to the Prophet. Oh BTW don't feel sorry for the prophet. He is the MAIN BOSS at the ending and 
 is really powerful. Yeah the Cinematics are typically Devil May Cryish type which is the only thing 
 I find IRRITATING about DMC Games. You just can't see what's going on and that's where i prefer 
 games like Prince Of Persia or God Of War.
  
  Graphics - Holy Shhhh. The best graphics of 2008. Owns Assassin's Creed and Beats Call Of Duty 
 4. Based exactly on Half Life 2's textures this game clearly gives an idea what HL 3 should look 
 like. The shadows as criticized by the Critics is true. But its a small thing. The WATER is the 
 best thing i have seen in any game. The graphics seriously puts a challenge to Sony's God Of War 
 3. POPs taken a different route called cell shading. So out of competition.
  
  Music - Annoying at first, but when you get used to it it is really good. Suits Devil May Cry. 
 Don't expect any EPIC music as DMC always gives less importance to music. The Boss Music especially 
 the Dragon Female Boss is cool.
  
  GAMEPLAY - The most important aspect for any game.
  
  Platforming - One area where Prince Of Persia owns both this and God Of War. DMC has done absolutely 
 NOTHING to improve upon their platforming. You by mistake come close to any edge you fall down 
 without grabbing. I can understand Kratos is too heavy to do that but Dante and Nero should do 
 that because they have the Strength of Kratos and Agility of the Prince. Still luckily the levels 
 aren't hard so you can ignore this part.
  
  Puzzles - The Puzzles are pretty good though not as good as previous DMCs. Some Puzzles are little 
 Frustrating and BORING especially the Gyro Blades Puzzle. Hell, I don't care about puzzles as this 
 is not Puzzle oriented like Prince Of Persia. Lets move on to the Combat.
  
  Combat - Yeah, this is the THING that makes me give this game a 10/10. The Combat of this game 
 is so GREAT that it really Overshadows the Bad Points. You start out with NERO and NERO has that 
 Left hand that Devil Bringer. You can Grab with that Hand and he performs some BREATHTAKING moves 
 shown in Superb Angles. He also has Guns like Dante but really Weak Guns. Sword Combos are ok but 
 DT is the Best.
  
  Dante - yeah our Original STUD. We get to control him in the second half. When you are Nero you 
 get to kick Dante's Ass Twice. But you never get to kick Nero's Ass which is little Disappointing. 
 So it doesn't have that Legacy Of Kain kind of Two Characters kicking each others A**.
  
  Dante's Sword combos are AMAZING as ever but even Better. He also has this Gauntlet like thing 
 which he performs to do karate. He gets it from one of the Bosses. The Best thing is the Pandoras 
 Box. Yes this is even better than God Of War's Pandoras Box. You get to be a Whole Lot Of Artillery 
 Tank. Didn't Understand? Play the Damn Game.
  
  The Orbs are Back and the Gold Orb over here, unlike in DMC 3 makes you Alive at that instant and 
 makes the game TOO Easy. There are loads of Combos to unlock using Proud Souls. Yeah these are 
 different from orbs and you get it depending on how you complete each level. You have Rankings 
 ranging from D to S for Completion Time, Stylish points and Orbs Collected. This is really SILLY 
 because you go on to complete the Level in a Hurry you get S for Completion and Ds for the Combos 
 and other Stuffs. You work you a** off for the Orbs and Combos you get a D in Completion Time. 
 And When the F did D, S, S Average to D. Seriously DMC guys need to learn some Math. Those are 
 some Frustrating parts if you really Care about the Ranks. I don't So lets move on.
  
  Bosses - What can i say? The first boss BERIAL itself made me fall in love with this game. Bosses 
 of DMC 4 are the Best EVER in History. I have played 100s of games and the bosses really are amazing. 
 Maybe i feel it due to Next Gen graphics and also maybe POP 4 and GOW 3 aren't out yet. But i can 
 say atleast SO FAR its the Best.
  
  Overall, Gameplay wise DMC 4 has made some SERIOUS Improvements and poses a Serious Threat to the 
 Prince Of Persia 4 and God Of War 3.
  
  CONCLUSION - After playing the Disappointing and Repetitive Garbage called Assassin's Creed I went 
 into depression and didn't want to try any Action Adventure. THANKS A LOT to DMC 4 that it has 
 brought my interest back. This may not be the Best in Series OVERALL, but Gameplay wise its easily 
 ONE OF THE BEST GAMES EVER MADE Period Watch out Prince Of Persia 4 and God Of War 3!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1DdL3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  I always loved Hack n' Slash Action games, kill 'em by the dozens, and when there is a rating system 
 that proves a challenge and I always love to see which rank with different combo's and manuevers 
 I can achieve. For those who played the rest of the series one thing they'll notice is that the 
 character you control at the start has changed [That reminds me how you had Rider (or Raider or whatever) instead 
 of Snake at MGS 2 Sons of Liberty (PS2 Game) ] , and that the difficulty is easier, the way you lose 
 health is quite better (you lose less health) , the bosses are easier (especially with Nero the first 
 character you are controlling in DMC 4) who has the Devil Bringer a demonic hand that gives you 
 extreme freedom of movement, while aiming at a boss you can grab him and go near him, and after some 
 strikes and heavy blows you are able to perform a special move on him while pressing "L" on the 
 keyboard with the Devil Bringer (Which means either throwing a toad 6 feet high or getting the face 
 of Lord of Fire Hell right down at the ground. I noticed that you gather less orbs (I may be wrong) . Also 
 another change is that Dante (which has styles) can change these styles while in game and not at 
 Power Up station which is a very good addition because you can play a lot better with our demon 
 friend. A very good addition to the game is the Automatic setting which makes combos a lot easier 
 while you had to press like 3-4 buttons at the right times you can press 1 or 2 and perform the 
 same combos a lot easier and with the same efficiency. This may help a lot of players but some that 
 can and are willing to perform the combos by themselves and want to have complete control of their 
 every movement may choose not to use the Automatic setting. The gameplay is quite easy even with 
 a Keyboard because the creators made the button quite like a game pad on the keyboard so the movement 
 keys are "w, a, s, d" and with "i" you can move your sword, with "k" you can jump with "j" you can 
 fire your range weapon and with "l" you can use the Devil Bringer or one of Dante's styles (like 
 special moves) . You can also play with a gamepad I prefer the keyboard even if at the start my fingers 
 hurt because it is quite hard to play a hack n slash action game and perform various combos with 
 a keyboard. The graphics are awesome and most systems must be able to handle them I play with full 
 graphics (at a video card nVidia 7600 GT as I've said in another review 2 gb RAM) but I do not have 
 the Anti aliasing setting on because then my system is having a hard time, and I am having a hard 
 time playing. So at last i just want to say that the game is great, everyone who likes action and 
 hack n slash games would love it and it surely worth a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NZX666
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Released back in February for the Xbox 360 and the Playstation 3, Devil May Cry 4 is largely the 
 same game on PC as the console version, with a few extras thrown in as a trade-off for the few 
 months' extra wait. Console ports have a reputation for generally being poor performing cut-downs, 
 inferior to their original releases- clunky cash grabs done cheap by publishers for a few more 
 sales- and therefore not worth buying over the original. Right?
  
  Fortunately, this not so with DMC4- the PC version is every bit the technical equal of it's console 
 progenitors.
  
  The game tells the story of Nero, a young, white haired and fashion conscious emo/demon hunter 
 who wields a giant sword and a big gun- and has his oddly fantastic life turned upside down when 
 a man in a red coat slaughters the priests of his hometown's clergy. Confused? It's Japanese. The 
 plot, story and characters in all the series' games are largely in keeping with what you would 
 expect from Japanese anime and manga aimed at teenagers: purely fantastic and not necessarily logical. 
 It's silly, but suspend your disbelief and you will find quite an entertaining, though not necessarily 
 intelligent story for an action game. 
  
  The first thing most people will notice is that it works very well on a wide range of computers, 
 and it looks absolutely jaw dropping at its highest level of detail. Performance is excellent, 
 maintaining a smooth frame rate throughout almost the entire game on mine and others' fairly modest 
 PCs. Technically this is one of the best ports of a console game ever made to the PC, and you won't 
 need an expensive upgrade to see it at its best. The visuals are some of the best in the business, 
 with an astounding amount of detail in absolutely everything, from the characters to the environments 
 and dramatic lighting- it looks just stunning in every way you could hope. Special attention has 
 also gone into animating the marvelously over-the-top cut-scenes, both exciting and humourous in 
 their own way, with the style that has come to be expected of the series so far.
  
  Aside from the astounding visuals, there is quite a meaty, yet particularly old-school game to 
 play here. Hailing back to the arcade games of old like Double Dragon and Final Fight, Devil May 
 Cry 4 is all about visceral, brutal and violent combat. Essentially, the player moves the protagonist (s) 
 through a level, defeating throngs of enemies in locked areas that can't be left until every monster 
 has been blown six ways to Sunday. Sounds simple, but Devil May Cry's combat system is full of 
 complexities that will keep you coming back for more. Using a single button for shooting a gun, 
 another for slashing with a sword, a third for jumping and a fourth for a special ability, things 
 get pretty complex and varied when you mix and match attack functions, switching weapons and attack 
 styles, slashing an opponent high into the air, filling them with lead as they fall back down to 
 the earth, then slam them violently into the ground with your devil arm, then snatch them from 
 the ground to you in the air with the arm again, and lay waste to them with a flurry of airborne 
 sword slashes timed with the revving of the engine in you sword for extra power... and so on and 
 so forth.
  Yes, I said devil arm- the game's central new gameplay feature, which essentially allows Nero to 
 pick up, slam, pull and snatch enemies and objects with effortless grace. It looks incredibly cool, 
 and allows Nero to perform some brutal throwing moves with various enemies, lending an extra layer 
 of flair to the game's visceral feel.
  It's also very strategically important, becoming completely invaluable in boss fights (of which 
 you will have seen plenty by the end of the game) .
  
  Silly as it may sound, it is immensely satisfying to stack up stylish combinations between sword 
 slashes, gunshooting and special abilities that lends the combat a dance-like grace which will 
 leave you wholly satisfied until the next encounter. Then you take into account the sheer number 
 of moves and abilities available to you, and those that can be unlocked, then the different approaches 
 you have to take for each enemy or combination of enemies, and you have a grasp on how much depth 
 there is to it- and just how fun this game is. Dante's appearance as a playable character about 
 half way through the story makes for a nice change of pace from Nero's slower, more deliberate 
 play style too. He's faster and more linear than Nero, but can change from one of four different 
 style sets that allows him to change from a wide range of different abilities on the fly. Some 
 of his weapons and abilities just look absolutely ridiculous, such as the 'Pandora's box': a suitcase 
 that can transform into all manners of ranged weaponry, from rocket-launchers to mini-guns and 
 explosive crossbows- it's crazy and over the top, but just loads of fun to play with. 
  
  Which could stand as a metaphor for the game itself: a stylish and intense action ride that doesn't 
 take itself too seriously, and has the best time doing it. Though the game may essentially repeat 
 itself in reverse halfway through, you won't mind as the epically intimate depth of the combat 
 and ridiculous cinematic feel of the game will keep you hooked until the very end. Unpretentious 
 and simple to enjoy- a deep and challenging combat experience with a fairly entertaining story 
 and plenty of well executed flair in just the right places, Devil May Cry 4 is definitely worth 
 your time.
  Now, I've got a few demons that need laying waste to, so if you don't mind
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacktigern
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  cool game but controls is difficult , great visual effects and nice game play and its really suck 
 you in , the graphics is perfect , the music or sound track of devil may cry four is amazing, about 
 the game play its encourages you to keep playing . and spend too much time with the game devil 
 may cry four is just the game which you can not stop playing. devil may cry four is made well . 
 why do not you just start playing ? but i see something about devil may cry four which is the game (devil 
 may cry four) almost the same graphics like devil may cry three no more upgrades or tweaks in devil 
 may cry four. devil may cry four
  devil may cry four
  devil may cry four
  devil may cry four
  
  is just the game you may dream of.
  just one problem that the game 
 (devil may cry four) is a difficult game to play specially when you advance more and more and i 
 do not mean the difficulty of monsters you met in the game i mean the whole game difficulty . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamiRDuran
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  As a pc gamer most of the times i am really cautious with traditional console series. Most of the 
 time after being hyped by a review i am like: whatever, "been there done that long time ago". i 
 am glad to admit that this is not the case with devil may cry 4.
  
  First of all. you have to keep an open mind and doing a bit of research about devil may cry series 
 would help a lot. this is not about amazing and deep story where secret meanings are hiding. this 
 is not about getting to know your hero and familiarizing yourself to him. This is about pure, fast 
 paced hack and slash everything in front of me gameplay and trust me dmc4 does it very well.
  
  The graphics and gothic art-style are also done very well. Crank up the settings and AA and 
 be ready for a graphical treat as dmc4 is very optimised and even with a medium range machine you 
 will be able to enjoy it at full settings and 60fps.
  
  Devil may cry 4 is a very good console port that is not plagued with bad controls and performance 
 optimization. Respect the effort that the developers put to make it worth a purchase for pc gamers 
 and buy the game. If you are craving for amazing fast paced, hack n" slash gameplay without a boring 
 storyline look no further. Dmc4 is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_spartan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  Although DMC 3 succeded enough in PC coz of its cool gameplay and its graphic, BUT there're many 
 bugs and error coz 
  its porting from console to PC. Maybe after that, PC gamers had got a "trauma" with every game 
 which had a relationship
  with "PORTING".
  Fortunately, DMC 4 is a perfect game. She came to PC without any defect.
  In graphic, DMC 4 have 
 a wonderful graphic. If in console this game can be running in 30 FPS with cut-scene was rendered
 
  in 60 FPS. In PC DMC 4 can be running in 120 FPS!!!
  If we speak about DMC 4 storyline, "cinematic" isn't a suitable word for that, coz everything on 
 DMC 4 exactly is called
  COOL... SO COOL... and SO ILLOGICAL!!!
  I think that's all of my review. Eventhough, maybe there're more thing that i can write. And one 
 more thing... 
  I recommended this game to all gamers who love FULL ACTION GAME....!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  Why did I decide to bump up the score of this game to 8.5 instead of 8. It was 'feel'; this game 
 started to grow on me and before I knew it, despite my inner critical voice, I started to like 
 it.
  
  The gameplay of DMC should be questioned: is this going to be annoying difficult like DMC 3. For 
 DMC4 the answer is a shining no. We're back to the difficulty level of DMC 1, which was good enough, 
 but not too low. In fact, the boss difficulties calibrate to how well you are doing I believe, 
 at some places to give you mercy points.
  
  Let's show the beef; this game has amazing graphics, an addictive combat engine, and beautiful 
 CG sequences. Lush environments and AMAZING boss battles don't hurt.
  
  The problems with the game, as always, is the story. Leering its ugly eye the ultimate obstacle 
 for DMC is usually to squallow the strange story and ridiculous personalities. But it was here, 
 that the game performed a miracle.
  
  The game designers made very smart choices. They pushed enough to make the story more likable, 
 and yet shunned away of pushing too much into making it unbearable. Kirei's choice was intelligent 
 for example: they just made her speak very little, which was a total relief. Also, I like the development 
 in Dante and Nero. 
  
  In short, though not without the usual story flaws, I feel the DMC series is taking a turn in the 
 right direction. I dare say near the end of the game, I actually cared. Well, a little bit.
  
  Still, downright amazing combat. Safe to say: fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vibhanshu07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  My friend gave me this game and said "dude, you gotta check this out".
  
  DMC series has always offered some great gameplay and they continue doing this by their new title 
 DMC4. Game starts with a cinematic, Nero making his way to the church killing demons, and blows 
 you away with it. This time Nero is at the lead role. Dante makes his first entry at church and 
 kills the preacher. Nero is sent on the way to get him and in his journey he comes across a a lot 
 of truths.
  
  Nero carries a gun and a sword but his demonic arm brings great power and moves. Nero's arm is 
 actually the real badass of the game. The best part to see is, his arm has different moves for 
 every different demon/enemy. And that's not it, you have the power of "Devil Bringer". It brings 
 a devil over him giving insane power and huge moves and destruction. You can also upgrade your 
 skills, tricks and items. For these reasons Nero's controls are better than Dante.
  
  Yes! Dante comes back. Nero gets captured by the demons and you play with Dante to save Nero. Dante 
 doesn't has the demonic arm but this doesn't means that Dante can't do stuffs. Dante earns a lot 
 of new weapons which are really out of the box. The tricks and moves in the game is real amazing 
 since beginning, and a solid well tested gameplay, I did not see any glitches. Boss fights are 
 another aspect which makes this game a good one, they are pretty well done. Though you fight those 
 bosses with Nero and later with Dante also, the difficulty level is pretty much matched. Nero's 
 arm is a little edge but then Dante's new weapons are also on the line.
  
  Apart from this, DMC4 has some great cinematics which keeps you seated on your seat. The amazing 
 graphics makes it more realistic. Lot of colors to see around making it the perfect fantasy. Character 
 designs are simply great whether it be Nero's girlfriend or even the Frog Demon.
  
  The uninteresting part of the game are the puzzles. Not all of them were appreciated. Music was 
 also fine till I realized that its the same one which is being repeated.
  
  But nothing effects much on the gameplay. If you are looking for an insane fight with the demons 
 with some great graphics and cinematics then you are at the right place. DMC4 is the choice! Though 
 it had some faults at design level but it wont effect your fun. 
  
  DMC4 doesn't offers a multiplayer but it is packed with enough action. Give it a shot and you'll 
 be in my seat writing a review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farizcleo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  About Devil may cry series, I've play it since I had PS2. I like to play Dante. He becomes my favourite 
 character. 
  
  About DMC4, Ther are many question in my head. I don't know why arm of vergil became Nero'arm. 
 The great sword: Yamato was broken. Why did Nero have sprda's blood? I try to play it until th end. 
 Some of them show me answer. However, I'd like to play Dante more than Nero. I think the arm of 
 vergil is so powerful. It makes the game can play easily. It is too different from DMC 3.
  
  I know about fan-made movie "Devil May Cry: Tear of Sparda". I think it was good for Fanclub. 
 I wish the big mivie studio should make DMC into the flick.
  
  I noticed about mission 7 or 8. This mission is in the forest. I see the shadow of the tree is 
 so strange. [ My computer can play this game all high quality]
  That means there are something wrong in this game. I compare with other games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  When Devil May Cry 4 was announced for the PC, I was shocked. Despite this being the second time 
 the series made it to the PC, it just isn't the type of game to be playing on a keyboard. Heck, 
 they don't even offer the option to use a mouse. But that doesn't stop it from being a fantastic 
 game. High speed, gun slinging, sword scraping, monster mash with rock blasting in the back ground 
 to keep your blood pumping is the name of the game here. And boy, does it deliver.
  
  The game now stars a new protagonist, Nero. Unlike Metal Gear Solid 2, the change from the original 
 hero Dante is not such a hard one (they do look very similar.) And the series has not shyed away 
 from offering two playable characters. Nero is a young, cocky swordsman that was orphaned young. 
 He is taken into a religious cult his whole life. Everything seems well enough, until Dante crashes 
 the cults party and kills the head priest one day. Thats when Nero takes it personally.
  
  Nero controls very differently from Dante. Whereas Dante is a little complicated to get every move 
 down packed with his multiple fighting styles and weapons, Nero only has one style and two weapons. 
 And in most ways, Nero is more enjoyable than Dante. He has a double barrel revolver (?) and a 
 fuel injected sword. Yes, it is as badass as it sounds. Of course, his most unique feature is his 
 devil arm, which gives him the ability to extend a shadow arm to grab enemies and pull them towards 
 him or parry them. This allows Nero to yank his enemies over to him rather than running to a new 
 enemy, or pulling himself over to a heavy one.
  
  Fortunately, Dante is not out of the picture completely. He becomes playable half way through, 
 although new players may have a tough time with his fighting styles. I missed the ability to parry, 
 but combo for combo, Dante is much better. 
  
  Most of the game takes place in small closed off corridors that throw a bunch of enemies at you. 
 The action is smooth and concise, and once new players get their feet wet, combos can be thrown 
 around with no problems. The combo system hasn't changed much either, rewarding you for throwing 
 around stylish combos without getting hit or spamming the same combos over and over. They range 
 from D to Smokin Stylish, and you get ranked at the end of every level for speed, style and orbs 
 found.
  
  The series story has usually been a very decent one, and this entry doesn't stray too far. The 
 cinimatics are completely incredible, with stylish sword and gun fights that will make you watching 
 them over and over. But it's the incredible graphics that pull everything together. Character models 
 are almost life like, and special effects pop off the screen. The game comes in DX9 and 10 flavors, 
 and where there isn't too much difference between the two, this version is very much crisper than 
 either the 360 or PS3 version, with insanely high AA settings that actually don't require a monster 
 system to at least turn on some sort of AA level. The game also scales very well on systems, and 
 looks great no matter where the settings are at. It almost makes me wonder what happened to the 
 crummy version of Resident Evil 4 that Capcom released for the PC...
  
  Of course all this high praise does have some downsides, one being the length of the game. It can 
 very much be completed under 10 hours, even with a good amount of secret hunting and watching every 
 story element. Thankfully, there are a few PC exclusives to keep you coming back, such as Legendary 
 Dark Knight mode, which takes advantage of PC hardware to throw a ton of enemies on screen without 
 being too hard, and turbo mode, which speeds the action up considerably. There is no online mode 
 available, which isn't much of a complaint, but it would have been nice to see online leaderboards.
 
  
  Going for about $10 cheaper than the console counterparts, it is a no brainer to recommend this 
 version if you haven't had your fill yet. Some might consider the lack of proper keyboard controls 
 a negative, but this game is definetly better with an analog controller. All in all, this is a 
 must have. It might not be GOTY material, but you won't find any better button masher on the PC. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robsmits
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for a while but it's took me forever to complete it, & it's been a bit of a 
 grind. I remember the original DMC on PS2 & it was excellent so it was nice to see a quality port 
 of this episode come along. Problem is the brilliance is seriously tarnished by some awful design 
 ideas.
  
  When you initially begin the game it simply blows you away. I thought this game could be one of 
 the greatest ever. Visually the game is stunning & it runs very smoothly indeed. Audio is excellent 
 until battle commences then cue the worst music I have ever heard. Design idea flaw number 1: to 
 include such terrible music. I've yet to hear a single person say they like the music in this game. 
 It's wretched. I think even a booming techno beat during battle would have been a huge improvement.
 
  
  The battles themselves are the games definite strong point. The game does require time & skill 
 to be truly devastating with your attacks but it's a lot of fun learning. Yes they can get repetitive 
 and the music does not help, but you earn new moves as you advance through the game. Theres two 
 characters to play - Dante & Nero - & Dante doesn't get the demon arm which is a bit of a loss 
 & you have to fight the same bosses which is the games second design flaw. It just smacks of laziness.
 
  
  Another bad idea was to include crash bandicootesque platform sections. Life is too short for these 
 platform shenanigans & they completely stifle the flow of the game. One that particularly griped 
 me was the flexible arm when trying to grasp those blue balls of light. It would often lock onto 
 the wrong one & I would be falling down to the bottom to start all over again.
  
  When the action is on though, DMC 4 is one hot game. The most amazing cut scenes to, even if the 
 story is weak. I would recommend DMC 4 if you can handle frustration but love intense colourful 
 battles. Obviously you have to have a gamepad. My 360 one worked perfectly.
  
  Overall I felt that this game could have been a lot more enjoyable. The designers do seem to go 
 out their way to lower the games quality with dire platform sections & uninteresting puzzles. I'm 
 quite pleased to be uninstalling it to be honest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philosoph
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Have yet to complete it, but am about half to three quarters in, and i'm loving it.
  
  don't get me wrong the game is not at all strategic, thought provoking, or really that challenging 
 but who needs that stuff when you have a strong armed hero slamming a three storey monsters head 
 into the ground.
  
  This is a game based PURELY on visual effect, for anime lovers to get a bit closer to that awesomeness 
 that makes anime awesome.
  
  the chase camera style can be a bit off-putting for those preferring the whole FPS style or direct 
 3rd person view, but it's intention is solely to let the gamer experience the game-play environment 
 to it's maximum and also alloys for the boss fight sequences to integrate more seamlessly with 
 the cut-scenes, during before and after the fight.
  
  Not a game for those who are into the realism of other recent titles but this game is in a completely 
 different region of gaming and damn good fun gaming it is, for gamers looking for an easy escape 
 from the norm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkdray
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  So I recently am playing DMC 4 on my pc and I was so surprised seeing this game in action on my 
 pc for the first time.... AWESOME graphics and not only even the story Isn't bad at all tough it's 
 hard to get with the story and harder if you are new to DMC series like me. I love the gameplay, 
 characthers and even the controller movements. It is a vast games full of moves and bunch of stuff 
 to make the game WOW! 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Well, outstanding obvisiouly if you have a good gaming rig... Well I have a Geforce 9600GT which 
 is preety good tough I played this on DX9 no DX10 which I would try to play on. Well they are so 
 smooth I never had a game smoother than this, better than Assassin's Creed tough could be problem 
 that DMC is full of details. So Graphics get:
  9.0
  
  Sound:
  
  Sound is amazing, cool music altough might get repetitive tough its a problem of a lot of games. 
 The sonds are fun to listen while you kick some ass and I love those rocking songs better than 
 the other games. Every movement you do sound different and you'll get in the game as you're the 
 real player. so I give sound:
  8.0
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It's a lot of fun, easy as you get it and love the moves and stuff espacially combination, thinking 
 of that Capcom really surprised me! Only thing I didn't like from the moves where his jumps....??? 
 Yes his jump is a bit redicilous and come on when he jumps and shoots he just keep up in the air...!? 
 But forget about it still doesn't make great difference. So Gameplay takes:
  9.0
  
  Overall: 8.5
  
  Still there are some small things which could just been better but it's my 
 first time on DMC and I hope it won't be the last! I loved the mix of "Tekken" and the fast action 
 of "Resident Evil" It is a full-packed game that your pc got to try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adismo1000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  If you play Devil May Cry 4 on the PC, you should expect all of the same visceral carnage featured 
 in the console versions, but there's a caveat: You'll need a gamepad. If you're a glutton for punishment, 
 you can try using the game's keyboard control scheme, but it's awkward and frustrating. However, 
 assuming that you have a decent controller, you'll find that this excellent sequel is Capcom's 
 finest PC release in years.
  It's a challenging experience, though its smoother difficulty curve makes it far more accessible 
 than Devil May Cry 3. In this vein, you're given an excellent number of game play choices that 
 help you tailor the challenge to your preferences. Stylish action, terrific boss fights, and beautiful, 
 melodramatic cutscenes will inspire you to push forward, and they serve as an appropriate reward 
 for a well-played sequence of demon slaying. Nero is an excellent character, He's clearly cut from 
 the same cloth as Dante, and it's a bit disappointing that the game doesn't explore this connection 
 in more detail. Regardless, you'll want to follow Nero's exploits as he struggles to learn the 
 truth about his own religious organization, The Order of the Sword, and Dante's apparent murder 
 of its leader. Devil May Cry 4 takes itself seriously, but not too seriously, so for every shocking, 
 bloody cutaway, there's an equally funny quip that helps keep the narrative in check. There are 
 a couple of cringe-worthy exceptions, such as one scene in which Dante decides he's a tango dancer 
 (don't quit your day job!) , but overall, you're apt to find the scenes to be gorgeous, thought-provoking, 
 and emotionally stirring. You'll also encounter a number of secret missions scattered around, and 
 you'll no doubt find them to be the most challenging aspect of the game. In some cases, you have 
 to execute a certain move a set number of times in a row, or dispatch every demon within the allotted 
 time. Although those missions are challenging, others require you to have purchased a particular 
 move before you can manage it. If at first it seems that some of these missions are simply unbeatable, 
 have faith and return to it later. There's a good chance that you were simply missing a piece of 
 the puzzle. You aren't required to do these missions, but the orb fragment that you earn is a perfectly 
 fine reward, and accomplishing these difficult tasks is incredibly gratifying. this is a great 
 game to be played on pc. i will give it 8.6.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninjak
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  i encourage anyone that loves this genre to get this for pc. capcom this time around didn't pull 
 a lazy port like previous titles *coughs* resident evil 4 pc. having played this on xbox360. the 
 pc version is the same smooth gameplay you expect. runs great even a laptop. tested it on an asus 
 m50vm-b2 running at 720p. gamers support the devs on this one. they did a damn good job. 
  At 1st I did not know what to expect but it is worth the $40. loading times are fast. Installing 
 did take some time tho. since this is a pc game, you have more options like increasing the resolution. 
 i kicked it upto 1680x it was still playable but there was slowdowns. i say the sweet spot is 720p 
 and of course it depends on your hardware setup. 
  
  Hats off to capcom for making a great game and making it right for pc gamers finally!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azzk1ka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  If your like me and played Devil May Cry 1, 2 & 3 on consoles but now have a PC, I'm sure your 
 really pleased, like me, that this is on PC.
  After hearing that this was on PC I downloaded the demo and completed it a few times. After being 
 stunned by the demo I went straight out to buy a 360 controller for my PC along with a copy of 
 Devil May Cry 4.
  
  If you are planning on buying this game I suggest you buy a 360 controller for your PC because 
 keyboard alone is just to fiddly and awkward. The 360 controller is fully functional with touch 
 sensitive button, analog sticks and even has vibration for added effect.
  
  The game is visually stunning and runs like a dream on my x1950 pro, and I think that the game 
 play has improved with brand new moves along with a brand new character, Nero.
  
  If your a fan of the series and have a PC, this is a must have.
  
  9.5 / 10
  
  Azzk1ka 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  ~~~~~GOOD~~~~~
  --
  Sound - Great, Great voice acting, Perfect
  __
  Graphics - Great, Nice timing, Perfect
  __
  Gameplay - Great, Lots of combos/techniques
  
 __
  Story - Good story, Makes sense... but its not Dantes story...
  --
  Great game idd recommend it to everyone who likes good stories in games, good thrill/action and 
 a satisfying ending.
  
  
  ~~~~~BAD~~~~~
  
  Its a good game... a great game... even though you get to play Dante in it, its Dantes game... 
 and I was stuck with Nero more then a 3rd the game, when it should have been the other way around. 
 Capcom, why didnt you start a new dmc series and bind them together if you love Nero so much? Why 
 did you taint DMC's glorious name with a total fake like Nero... yeah hes cool... but a total fake 
 we dont even know anything about him. Except hes a decedent of Sparta, probably threw Virgil's 
 Sword.
  
  Dante is the devils son, in the history text in the game it even states: some think he has even 
 surpassed his father. So tell me again how the hell I beat Dante with Nero on devil hunter with 
 100% health? First time, and 95%+ health the second... Oh right... cause he was going easy on me... 
 literally... so how did I just take down a boss in 3 hits that Dante couldn't take down?
  
  As far as Nero goes, hes a ghost... we know nothing about him, so hes a loser character as far 
 as im concerned. A mix between Dante and Virgil's personality, how convenient... cough..
  
  Its a good game, worth buying, worth beating, worth playing - to an extent... but Dantes the **** 
 and anyone whos anyone knows Nero isnt worth settling over
  
  PS. We want Dante back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 7
  Gameplay: 6
  Multiplayer: -
  Storyline: 6
  Impression: 7
  
  Score: 7 (7.2 real)
  
  Devil May Cry 4 is the new addition to the popular DMC franchise. 
 The game features great action, new characters, good boss fights and a lot more.
  
  In DMC4 you get to play as a new character -Nero, who also has supernatural power like Dante from 
 earlier DMC games. Nero has got a special right arm which comes in very handy and he also carries 
 a nice sword and a gun. You can play as Dante, but much later in the game. Both characters features 
 unique combos and special moves. Though you might find yourself using Nero's one particular special 
 move called Devil Buster over and over again.
  
  The game features lots of different enemies- dumb, heavily armoured, super fast, gigantic and lot 
 more. The boss fights can be repetitive though. The game lacks placement of proper checkpoints. 
 In fact if you die you'll have to play the whole level again. The good thing is you get to fight 
 dozens of enemies at a time - its a one man show. There are levels where you need to solve puzzles 
 however they are NOT very impressive.
  
  The story goes that Nero is an orphan raised by the "Order" ( Men who fights demons) . One day in 
 a ceremony of the order Dante ( the bounty hunter who hunts demons) invades and attempts to assassinate 
 the Order Leader - His Holiness. Nero is en-tasked to find Dante for prosecution. But the twist 
 in the story entwines the fate of the two. Also there's a romantic relation between Nero and a 
 girl- Kyrie who is the sister of an order sergeant.
  
  Oh, and try not to play the game with the keyboard use a game controller. Over all the game is 
 real fun to play.
  
  The Good:
  -next-gen graphics
  -gameplay easy improved
  -fight dozens of enemies
  
  The Bad:
  -short
  -the boss fights quite repeat each time
 
  -annoying subtitles
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  I discovered the Devil May Cry series only last winter and I went through all parts several times 
 in a few weeks. The game was such a cool no-brainer to me, packed with top quality action and breathtaking 
 characters and cut-scenes. By far, my most favorite part was Dante's Awakening and maybe that's 
 why I was expecting too much from Devil May Cry 4.
  
  By no means this is a bad game, mind you! It kept me stuck in front of the screen until the end 
 and much to my surprise, Nero does not come short in coolness, compared to Dante. However, the 
 latest installment has flaws. The worst one is probably backtracking. Devil May Cry 3 was criticized 
 for that, but in this part, they take it to a whole new level. You practically play the whole game 
 once with Nero, and then play it backwards with Dante. It's cheap!
  
  Second come boss fights. Though fun, they are not so intense as the ones from the previous installments. 
 Besides, once again you have to face most of the bosses several times, but unlike Devil May Cry 
 1 and 3, this time fights don't change one bit - you are always on the arena, corresponding to 
 a certain boss and your opponent always has the same moves. What is more, the fights themselves 
 are much easier. In fact the whole game is much easier. Maybe I have overdosed on Devil May Cry 
 3, but I finished the fourth installment on Devil Hunter my first time through without using a 
 single item.
  
  Cut scenes disappointed me as well. There are some crazy stunts again, but nothing like the bullet 
 catching with teeth and the shot at the pool balls from the DMC3 intro.
  
  The story is also a bit incoherent. I barely made it what are these demons doing in town. And some 
 characters like Trish and Lady are just flashing with simply no role in the plot.
  
  With all that said, I must repeat that Devil May Cry 4 is one of the best games of 2008. It is 
 just that its predecessor was too great. Other than that, you may expect the same dynamic action 
 and playing as Nero is just as fun as playing with Dante. The Devil Bringer creates a sort of all-powerful 
 feeling which is nice and smashing bosses with it is simply great.
  
  If you have a gamepad for PC, this game is nothing short of its console versions and it is worth 
 everyone's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giantsfan22
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This game would BE GOTY if it had a better story. 
  
  Graphics: Amazing. Everything looks great and runs great on a mid level pc (8800 gts) . The previous 
 game was really pushing the ps2 to its limits and this one looks like it had to sacrifice nothing 
 to look great.
  
  Story: Having never played DMC 1 or 2, I cannot comment on their stories but DMC3 had a pretty 
 decent story with some twist and turns. This game has a pretty basic (key word as it appeared that 
 gameplay got the majority of attention for this game) story with 1 major twist that you see coming. 
 The ending falls pretty short when compared with DMC3. Not a bad story but definitly something 
 you have seen before.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game is really the best I have played since GOW2. Nero is so much fun 
 to play and there are so many different ways to fight and enemies to face that you RARELY get tired 
 of combat. At the end, you will say to yourself "please just one more level". The bosses are amazing 
 and not too punishing, each very unique in strategy. Dante is just as fun to play and is completely 
 different than Nero so its like playing to great games in one. The game is pretty linear but this 
 is an action game. Bottom line, amazing gameplay.
  
  Sound: I personally think the DMC games are a little to torn between appealling to the Anime crowds 
 and action gamers. The dialogue is sometimes hammy but it really doesn't impede this great game.
 
  
  Conclusion: This IS a great game. If you like action games at all, buy it rent it, borrow it, but 
 get it. For those younger or parents reading this, there is a little sexuality but nothing that 
 bad and you can always skip scenes (personally it really adds nothing to the story at all but is 
 not gratuitous) . If the game had a better story, it would be right up there with GOW2 but since 
 GOW2 improved on its own story telling, it remains above this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neonsuperstar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I'm a relative newcomer to the devil may cry scene. When dmc 1 and 2 were wowing gamers on the 
 ps2, i was still happily engrossed in my nice little pc gaming world of starcraft and counterstrike, 
 oblivious to anything to do with platforming, jumping puzzles, gratuitous hack and slashing. I 
 thought these manner of games were relegated to the consoles as immature and cheap thrills, mindless 
 button mashing. Boy was I wrong.
  
  Fast forward to 2006, and I had just given up DMC3 SE for being too difficult. Having tried it 
 based on a recommendation from a console-fanboy friend, there was nevertheless something i couldn't 
 put down about the game, despite being unable to compete with its punishing difficulty level. Was 
 it the story, the concept? Or something strangely alluring about slicing otherworldy creatures 
 into piles of dust? I was to find out in 2008.
  
  Having heard all the hype from my console gaming friends about dmc4, i relented and bought it on 
 the first day of release. Simultaneously, i snapped up an X360 gamepad (due to my friends' assertions 
 that a keyboard would not do!) . That 100 bucks turned out to be the most worthwhile gaming dollars 
 i'd ever spent.
  
  The graphics are amazing, and even on my mediocre system i can run it high and it looks cinematic. 
 The cutscenes, while high on melodrama and often overwrought, had that perfect blend of tongue-in-cheek 
 and blithe cockiness in the lead characters that i found a refreshing change from sullen and disaffected 
 main characters in most recent games. 
  
  DMC4 is certainly a game easy to learn and hard to master. Easy because of the inclusion of a human 
 mode (for newcomers like me) and difficult because the amazing combos and moves one has require 
 oodles of concentration to pull off. But when one does, and especially upon successful completion 
 of a difficult challenge or task, there is almost an explosion of self-satisfaction. (and i'll 
 admit, an almost equal amount of swearing and 
  
  Gamespot was noticeably restraint in their 8.0 praising of this port, and I know why. How can a 
 game almost synonymously associated with consoles, in story, concept, gameplay and all, be such 
 an astonishing experience on a platform so different?
  
  The answer is simple: games good as these transcend the boundaries of platform. The cinematic experience 
 of this game reminds us why we pay 10 bucks for a 1 and half hour movie. 
  
  Then why not a full 10 score? Until i can pull off that SSS-combo... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desmasic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  I haven't played DMC3 on PC mostly because of the sh*it*ty ResidentEvil 4 port (and yeah, DMC3 
 had it's share of issues on PC) .
  
  So after the hype on DMC4 for PC on how it was customized for the PC's this time around I decided 
 to jump in with my gamepad blazing (yeah, PC gamers have gamepads as well.. SHOCKING!) . So with 
 my trusty Logitech Rumblepad Pro 2 (mentioning because PC gamers should avoid POS gamepad from 
 Microsoft 360) locked and loaded I jumped right in. My impressions so far (haven't finished it 
 yet) ..
  
  *MENU/GUI*
  F*ing terrible. That's one way to describe it. Another way is that it is designed for people with 
 weak eyesight or just with lazy-ass designers who couldn't be bothered to shrink the huge stuff 
 (text, graphics.. etc.) covering the screen for.. you know, PC monitors. Here's a hint: PC gamers 
 don't use a low res TV screen to play the game.. SHOCKING!
  
  Also, as it is with all Capcom ports, some idiot over there has a strange fascination with long 
 useless menu fade-outs, title read-outs (the name of the game) and screens which not only waste 
 time but manage to confuse you by using the 'long way around' (know Assassins Creed GUI on PC? 
 Well, something like that but more dumb) .
  
  Get this, game loves to load and reload the whole game (textures/models prob) everytime you try 
 to enter the game (or Alt+Tab out.. at least it doesn't crash) , which takes like a min or two. 
 So after the mission screen pops-up and you suddenly decide to customize some options (which aren't 
 available on CUSTOMIZE at the main Menu) the game pops you out into menu screen and then out of 
 the mission screen all together (most of the time accidently) forcing you to reload the game all 
 over again.
  
  Confusing? Not half as confusing when you are dealing with this GUI in person.
  
  *GRAPHICS*
 
  Whoa!.. lemme repeat that.. WHOA! Game looks amazing, I am playing it on Vista x64 on dual-core 
 (AM2) on an old 6800GS card. And even THEN I am playing this game on Ultra settings. The game looks 
 amazing, runs smooth, no complains. The one thing I find annoying is that the game is made up of 
 pretty model doodads only which, if you like me, paid attention to by a PC gamer will appear.. 
 disconnected from the world and the setting (basically too clean and complicated for the retarded 
 world and characters and the story) . Anyways, game still looks great and is definitely optimized 
 for performance on dual core PCs (I can tell you that) .
  
  Player characters and weapon models are well done as well. You will love the vagina err, boobs.. 
 err I mean hot sexy clothes on women in-game.. :|
  
  Love the boss models as well. I recommend spending time reading the info on enemies and characters 
 where you can see these models individually from every inch. They look amazing.
  
  *SOUND/MUSIC/VOICE*
  Nothing ground breaking. Music is alright but nothing I will remember afer 
 I am done playing. Sound effects of swords and enemies getting hit/dying are ok, but sound so-so 
 and not so different (ie. repetitive) . For both player characters (including Dante later on) sound 
 effects are pretty much same. Guns sound very weak as well.
  
  As for voice acting. Prety average again. Not BAD but nothing amazing. The usual 'hmph', 'heh' 
 annoying sounds all voice artists make in every japanese mange/anime game/movie translations to 
 english is present here. People who love it will love it. Personally I felt like stabbing them 
 to death every time they opened their mouth but alas, we can't have it all.
  
  STORY/GAMEPLAY
  - Repititive. Key word. Actually, add 'bland' and 'boring' to that.
  
  After 
 first 3 missions, forget anything interesting coming out of this game. Storyline is just terrible, 
 characters so so and over-the-top. If you haven't played any other DMC before (like me) then you 
 really won't give a s***t about ANY of them, and that's a bad sign. When you know your game can't 
 ever be engrossing to new players no matter how many action scenes and 'crotch' shots you add then 
 you really need to re-think your game world.
  
  Gameplay is just one triggerred fight after another with platform puzzles thrown in to break the 
 tedium but will just end up frustrating you because of the TERRIBLE camera (which is fixed in the 
 sections.. while the character still moves in 3D.. great) .
  
  After you first load up your game there aren't any load times. When going from one map to another 
 there is a short load time (like 5-10 seconds) , no biggy. At least this doesn't break the flow.
 
  
  BUT, you will come accross REALLY retarded puzzles which are made even more of a chore because 
 of stupid camera. Since I am using gamepad, you have to control the camera with other hand so I 
 end up NOT doing it since you WILL have to use your fingers during battle and puzzle a lot, basically 
 every f*ing button possible while going through one move after another (which is smooth and easy 
 btw, that's not an issue) . I pray to got that people using keyboard and mouse combo can move the 
 cam around while moving character with WASD keys. If not, it's pretty stupid, because like with 
 every other 3rd person game on console (since us PC gamers have the freedom of using mouse) you 
 have to use your thumbs (both axis) for movement and camera and you can't deal with camera in the 
 middle of the action.
  
  Also, difficulty.. what? This game is so easy that I died ONLY when I fell of a ledge during a 
 hidden quest over and over again because of poor camera control. The boss fights are ridiculously 
 easy, the Knights do pose a challenge.. when they gang up on you. Even then you will not even need 
 to pause to heal cause kill one enemy and game generously gives you green (healing) orbs out of 
 their.. err, body?
  
  Seriously, it's not hard at all.
  
  
  
  IN THE END:
  
  6.5
  
  Ignore the hype. I was glad this game came to PC and am excited about Street Fighter 
 4 as well in the future. BUT Capcom really has to least how to make a proper PC port (make it yourself 
 and learn to use a PC ffs) . DO NOT buy this game if you have no gamepad. Even with gamepad this 
 game feels overly complicated. Especially the GUI.
  
  The dialogues are cheesy, women are shown only as sex objects pitiful and weak most of the time 
 (not that it really made me wanna stop playing but it was just so annoying watching a baby faced 
 'tough' hero save the weak girl.. it's laughable and that's what this game is made up off..) .
 
  
  Also, do note that most people posting reviews of this game, like Gamespot are console players 
 first. I am a PC gamer, and I am warning you, you WILL get bored easily. Unless you like lame puzzles, 
 repitive gameplay, stupid stury of epic proportions and incredibly annoying GUI, DO NOT BUY THIS 
 GAME. Combat looks awesome but then, all the cons don't make it worth the trouble in the end. This 
 review will no doubt be not agreed with by a lot of console players in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game definitely left me with some mixed feelings. The action is solid and even addictive and 
 the graphics are beautifully rendered on most mid to high end rigs. I would compare the graphics 
 to Gears of War with more vivid colors. The story seems very anime influenced and is rendered with 
 a solid cgi feel. If you're into the fast paced action genre, you'll probably enjoy this game and 
 it's definitely worth playing. 
  
  I really enjoyed the game, but one major issue made this frustrating at times. Here's what I don't 
 like. First of all, the mapping system sucks. The game doesn't seem to have a navigational system 
 and the map really doesn't tell you where to go. It's sort of like being trapped in a maze and 
 you have to figure out where to go. This might be part of the game design and adds to the challenge, 
 but it's a total waste of time because you ended up having to fight the same enemies over and over 
 again as you repeat your steps through the various maps. Why can't they add a navigational arrow 
 which points you in the right direction? I would've given the game at least an 8+ if they had. 
 Other than that, it's really solid game, but they need to improve the navigational or mapping system. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  One of the most well-known franchises of Capcom is the Devil May Cry series. Originally, it was 
 only available on the PS2, but with DMC3, Capcom started to branch out to other platforms. DMC3 
 PC wasn't very well received and now Capcom has decided to give PC gamers Devil May Cry 4, hopefully 
 with better controls. DMC4 was first released for Xbox 360 and PS3 in January of 2008. We PC people 
 had to wait till July and I would say it was worth the wait. From what I've read (this is my first 
 DMC game) , Dante used to be the main character but this time Nero takes center stage, although 
 Dante is playable in 7 out of the 20 missions and plays an important part of the story. The story 
 is pretty Japanese, VERY melodramatic, almost to a fault. Nero is sent in to track Dante, who has 
 murdered the Order of the Sword's leader, Sanctus but Nero learns that it is this Order that he 
 serves that is behind the recent demon attacks. With his love, Kyrie, in danger, Nero must team 
 up with Dante and put an end to the Order's nefarious plans for world domination. It's all well 
 written, even though it takes itself a little too seriously sometimes and you'll pay attention 
 because, hot damn, those are some well directed cutscenes. The graphics are AMAZING. The game uses 
 the same engine as Lost Planet Extreme Condition, called "MTFramework." It was developed on the 
 PC and then moved to consoles. Running on a 9600GT, the framerate never went below 100 at super 
 high settings, no anti-aliasing. Textures are incredibly sharp, both character models, demons and 
 environments. The bosses are a visual treat. The sound doesn't fare too well, mainly because the 
 voice acting is too cheesy. Nero sounds like some teenager doing a man voice and Dante sounds like... a 
 horny teenager. The music sounds like it was from some heavy metal band reject. At least sound 
 quality is high so I shouldn't complain too much. The point of the game is to hack and slash away 
 demons with style and you're graded on how stylish you are. It's pretty much button mashing but 
 there is some strategy involved. As for the PC exclusives, well, there are TWO. There's an unlockable 
 hard mode called "Legendary Dark Knight Mode" and a faster game mode called "Turbo Mode." If you've 
 already picked up the console versions there really isn't anything to see here. Also, there is 
 no mouse support except in the menus but the keyboard controls work well enough. Might cause cramping 
 if you play too much, so ideally get a Xbox 360 gamepad but I played through the entire game with 
 just the keyboard. Yes, it's a console port, but it's a well optimized console port so if you've 
 never played DMC or didn't play the console versions, why don't you check this one out? Make sure 
 to try to demo so you're sure your computer can run it and slash the crap out of those demons!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LastHitokiri
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Highly addictive game and worth playing. Excellent video secuences that could be appreciated in 
 many other games as well. Style sistem is excellent and rewards those who have been spending lots 
 of playing time. Not so difficult as its predecesors but still a challenge. Beautifull designed 
 enemies and excellent bosses. Well designed boss fights and gorgeous landscapes but are repeated 
 far too often, a bit more variety wouldnt hurt. Very quick loading times on the pc version but 
 it crawls in some places, mainly in the forests areas which are full of shadow details. A minor 
 detail, it would have been nice to have more information involving our main characters history. 
 Finishing the game does not reveal any secret of his history or how he got his arm, many details 
 have to be assumed to give a logical explanation to the events going on during the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf42Moon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  The good :
  awesome graphic & story & action . Dante more fun in devil may cry 4 . Nero's hand is great . PC 
 version is great . Boss characters are designed well and fun to fight The bad : puzzles isn't much 
 fun . fights are repeated to much
  
  On consoles, Devil May Cry 4 is beautiful; on the PC, it positively dazzles. The game includes 
 DirectX 9 and DirectX 10 modes, and both look spectacular and run beautifully. Both Nero and Dante 
 are fluid in motion, and they showcase a good deal of flair and subtlety in their movements. The 
 more damage a move does, the more astonishing it looks onscreen, and few games can approach the 
 pure razzle-dazzle of Nero jumping into the air, his cape flying and the glowing devil bringer 
 tossing lumbering demons around with matchless grace. From an environmental design standpoint, 
 the visuals can be gorgeous to behold, and moments like your first glimpse of Gran Album Bridge 
 are bound to take your breath away.
  If you looking for greet action game in pc you should play devil may cry 4 Devil may cry 4 simply 
 is one from best games ever and I thanks capcom very very very much for this awesome game and I 
 hope they more games like devil may vry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantelover
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  being played in dmc4 is great but i wanted vergil that is what dmc 4 need a bit mystery. etc 
 
  - Devil May Cry fans know what they expect from the action series: they look for fast paced action 
 sequences that require solid timing instead of button mashing. They expect large scale battles 
 with insane bosses and hordes of monsters that barely give the player a second to breath. They 
 also expect characters to take the dangerous settings lightly, with a large dose of sarcasm and 
 a snarky outlook towards the supernatural surroundings they find themselves in. Well, DMC fans, 
 take heart: Devil May Cry 4, the latest chapter in the series and the first true sequel in the 
 Devil May Cry chronology maintains all of these trademarks while showcasing the power of the PS3 
 fairly well.
  
  That is, for the most part.
  
  See, Dante fans may find themselves a bit disappointed in their favorite character's new role within 
 the series: instead of taking over the spotlight as he has in the previous three games, the anti-hero 
 takes on a secondary position to franchise newcomer Nero. DMC4 is really more of his story and 
 his coming of age within the Sparda-influenced universe than a tale that picks up after the events 
 of DMC1. Is this a bad turn of events? No, not really, although some of the hardcore might wonder 
 if the game could've had a different title with a Dante cameo instead of a Devil May Cry chapter.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: velociraptor
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  
  DMC4 has a pretty engaging storyline which although isn't revolutionary, contains its own best 
 parts. The writing for our heroes is far from perfect, but in general, the writing for others is 
 pretty convincing. The storyline is epic in its own means and it leaves you wanting to continue 
 playing which for the purpose of a game is all that's needed.
  
  Immersion:
  
  THis is the aspect in which DMC4 shines. The graphics are fantastic. The cinematics are absolutely 
 spectacular.. the best among all the games we have ever seen. The fight choreography is just amazing. 
 The combos are stellar... they are fun to pull off and satisfying to conduct. The music for combat 
 is fitting and engaging. Its a true package of entertainment for the senses.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The series trademark flipping an enemy in the air, blasting them with a gun, using 
 an oversized sword to mince meat is back and better than ever before. The devil bringer is definitely 
 the best part of this game. In fact, when the character switches, it is the most missed aspect 
 ever. The buster moves on the bosses are just the highlight of this game. It is truly unique and 
 a gaming-spectacle to behold. The devil bringer infarct makes this game more approachable than 
 others in the series. It takes a while getting used to Dante again... but once accustomed... Dante 
 is really fun to play with. The aspect of switching between the styles is the best feature of DMC4. 
 Its a delight to switch between the offensive swordmaster style and the trickster style on the 
 fly. In the end, the characters are both unique in their own right and makes them fun to play with.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Yes, DMC4 is not perfect. The most annoying aspect of DMC4 is the platforming and the annoying 
 re-doing involved. the navigation is terrible and the fact that we have to repeat all the boss 
 fights at the end isn't too satisfying. I have died numerous times in this game... yet, the most 
 of those times is due to the stupid platforming. However, its the combat which is why one has to 
 play this game. The spectacular addition of the devil bringer, the ability to change styles on 
 the fly for Dante is the polish that the series definitely requires. Its engaging combat will keep 
 us waiting at least till the next installment in Devil May Cry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrvtChurch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  While I found DMC 4 to be one of the harder games I've played in a while, I enjoyed it beyond belief.
 
  Devil May Cry 4 has A LOT of replay value which does make up for it being very short. The combat 
 system is absolutely satisfying on a very deep and carnal level and is best compared to God of 
 War. While this game does have it's issues which are minor and do not really effect game play, 
 with the only exception being that the entire game assumes that you own and use a Xbox 360 controller.
 
  I've played it for about 30 hours and I will probably continue to play it for, at least, another 
 30.
  
  The game does have a few things that were slightly irritating:
  1) The music, which is bearable the first few times, gets annoying later on, but after a while 
 you start to ignore it.
  2) The fixed camera angles can be a pain especially when you have a jumping puzzle and the camera 
 shows everything 10 feet behind you but only 1 foot where it matters, in front of you.
  
  The Fact that this is the fourth game in the Devil May Cry series does not bother me because, first, 
 I have never played the first three games, and second, the main character, Nero, is a 'new' character, 
 whose story is explained so no prior knowledge is necessary. I put the word new in quotes because 
 Nero looks, acts, dresses, talks just like Dante, the Protagonist from the first three games.
 
  
  In a nutshell: It's an incredible game, and anyone who has money to spend should try this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naimek
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  This game as I said is great! If you don't believe me I will tell you why!!
  
  Combat 10/10
  
  I have seen many combos and combat systems in my life but these combos are 
 truly incredible. Yo have soooooooo many choices how to deal some damage to your opposition you 
 can just shoot but you can have a powerful shot aswell, you just do the novice combo or if learnt 
 it you can do a more powerful and smashing combo with the sword. You can jump into the air and pull 
 your enemies to you so you can deal damage while not touching the ground with your feet.
  
  Graphics 9.5/10
  
  The graphics are very good and very clean but I cannot say that they are 
 the best cause I have seen a bit smoother graphics in some games.
  
  Demons/Characters 
  
  There are lots of Deamons to smash, but the boss fights aren't hard they are easy to be honest. There 
 are 2 main characters in the game which you will be able to play with Nero and Dante. In the game 
 it is said that Dante is much stronger than Nero, but when you will get to play Dante you will realise 
 that Nero is much much easier to control and I know the reason why. You see Nero has a Demonic arm 
 which is incredibly powerful weapon but Dante's arms aren't the same like Nero's so you aren't 
 able to use them.
  
  Thank's have a good time playing DMC4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmoddeuss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Sharp , fun , amazing graphics (dx10 vista x64) , very addictive and enjoyable. The puzzles are 
 ok and plenty of action.
  
  This is the first one in the series that I like it. Still I didn't finish the game but so far this 
 game is amazing, the cinematics and next gen graphics (DirectX 10) make it even more beautiful, 
 and you wont be dissapointed , the game has a nice story and interesting characters , lots of action 
 + puzzles, the monsters design is also very nice and the level design is great.
  
  If you have a powerful PC you can enjoy this game at 100% , I dont have any issues running this 
 game in windows Vista 64bits with DirectX 10. My hardware: 
  
  -Intel Core 2 Quad Q6600 G0 @ 3,2ghz
  -2x Club3D 9800 GX2 (Quad SLI) with latest nvidia drivers.
 
  -XFX 790i Extreme (Bios: P05 and latest update from "XFX" not nvidia)
  -4GB Ram (Corsair) 
  
  
  This game is a must buy!
  
  Another thing, I am just playing 
 with my Keyboard, I didn't have any issues yet , so I don't believe that a Joypad is a must.
  
  Cheers. 
  
  Asmoddeuss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chechak7
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  IF you like devil may cry series then you gana love this one a lot, it action adventure game, you 
 will play in two character's Nero & Dante Dante- is hired by Trish, a mysterious woman who looks 
 similar to his deceased mother, to stop the return of the demon king Mundus.
  Nero- is a lead character of Devil May Cry 4, marking his first appearance in the franchise and 
 sharing a main role with series protagonist.
  Dante. An orphan that was adopted by the Order, he has grown up to be a Holy Knight in the Sparda-worshipping 
 religion known as the Order of the Sword. He tends to not get along well with others and prefers 
 to work alone, so he is usually given the Order's "special assignments.
  
  play it ,will not disappointed, it is a great action game
  IT IS SoMkEn.....
  
  Devil May 
 Cry has been cited as the beginning of a sub-genre of action games called "Extreme Combat", which 
 focus on powerful heroes fighting hordes of foes with a focus on stylish action. The game has also 
 been described as being the first game that "successfully captured the twitch-based, relentlessly 
 free-flowing gameplay style of so many classic 2D action games"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiredDreemz
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  DMC 4 hit the PC with a bit of a bang, but due to its console nature, it did not take it by storm. 
 
  
  There is not much you can say about the game that is negative. The graphics is absolutely amazing, 
 the soundtrack is punchy - even though some don't really like that whole techno-rock type of sound 
 - and the gameplay is inherently fast-paced. The only major qualm about the game is that due to 
 its console roots, to play this game with a keyboard is almost impossible, but thank goodness it 
 supports the 360 control. The honest truth is that the only way you're going to finish this game 
 is if you invest in a control.
  
  Naturally DMC4 is an acquired taste. For n00bs, things may seem a bit overwhelming, but after playing 
 the first couple of levels, you might get to grips with the control scheme. 
  
  The core of DMC's gameplay has always been knocking up those combos, and unadulterated speed in 
 gameplay. In these areas DMC4 does well, although it doesn't quite excel. The storyline is also 
 done exceptionally well, and the new twist in the game is that the game revolves around Nero and 
 not Dante, although you do get to play him later on. Nero has his weaponry that is just as cool 
 as Dante's. His greatest weapon is his devilbringer hand that he uses in very creative ways. His 
 other weaponry is pretty stock standard, i. e. sword and gun. Dante's weaponru has also been tweaked 
 nicely. Thankfully both play differently, although we're not talking opposite sides of the scale 
 different.
  
  All-in-all a fun and entertaining game that will mainly appeal to fanboys, and those that know 
 the gameply mechanics of such a title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Capcom the makers of the famous games of Mega Man, Street Fighter, and Lost Planet have released 
 their 4th installment of their Devil May Cry series on to the PC. Devil May Cry 4 was scheduled 
 to be released simultaneously in March of 08 along with the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 version. 
 It was delayed a few times to its final release date of July. Waiting for Devil May Cry 4 to arrive 
 on the PC was worth it as Capcom was continuing to improve the gameplay quality.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 is an action RPG with a ton of button smashing. The player plays as Nero through 
 most of the game. As the game advance the player can get more exciting combo moves to quickly finish 
 off enemies. Nero has a demonic arm call Devil Bringer that could pull toward an enemy or bring 
 the enemy to him. The player switches to Dante past half way through the game. Dante give the player 
 the option to switch to four different fighting styles. Each fighting style gives the player different 
 abilities while attacking the enemy.
  
  Gameplay control is unusual for a PC game. There is no mouse support. The player can use the keyboard 
 with two hands or use a gamepad. Those who do not have a gamepad for their PC, the keyboard control 
 is very simple and easy to use. The player will still be able to enjoy Devil May Cry 4 by using 
 the keyboard only.
  
  Graphics are generally average compared todays games. While starting up the game, the player with 
 Vista can pick chose Directx 9 or Directx 10. Those who have WIndows XP could only run Directx 
 9 wont miss out any of the eye candy. Graphics running in Directx 9 and Directx 10 is the same 
 with no noticeable difference.
  
  The game does have an enriching storyline plot. There is a large amount of cut scenes before starting 
 a mission or after finishing off a boss to put more depth into the story. The voice acting kills 
 the entertainment of these long cut scenes. Way way too many unnecessary one line punches. The 
 game is a mature rated game and it should be expected the game should have a mature level voice 
 acting. Voice acting during fighting enemies get very stale very fast as there is only two things 
 Nero and Dante each say. The bosses also have a limited amount of lines that they say over and 
 over again.
  
  The battles in Devil May Cry 4 at the beginning of the game is very easy. Not long into the game 
 the player will experience more intensive and challenging enemies to fight allowing the player 
 to every increase their combo rating.
  
  There is a commodity system with in the game of Devil May Cry 4. The player can collect red orbs 
 hidden around the level and a reward for killing an enemy. Red Orbs can be used to buy other orbs 
 or gems to increase the effectiveness of their abilities or increase their life points. There is 
 also blue orbs that is used to buy more abilities and combo moves, these are collected at the end 
 of the mission. How well the player does in the missions allows the player to get more blue orbs. 
 All missions can be replayable as many times as the player wants.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 offers an in depth storyline, exciting gameplay, replayable missions, and the ability 
 to play two players Nero and Dante both with different abilities. This game isn't a terrible game 
 but it is an entertaining for at least 20 hours or more. The rating 8.5 is too high and 8.0 is 
 too low for this game. This game should deserve an exact rating of 8.2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Bang_Boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  t's a challenging experience, though its smoother difficulty curve makes it far more accessible 
 than Devil May Cry 3. In this vein, you're given an excellent number of gameplay choices that help 
 you tailor the challenge to your preferences. You can initially choose one of two difficulties 
 (and if you want to cry like a little kid, you can unlock several more) , and you can even choose 
 whether you want the game to perform some combos for you automatically. No, you aren't apt to find 
 Devil May Cry 4 to be excessively tough on your first play-through, although it is no walk in the 
 park, either. Nevertheless, it is generally excessive, and that isn't a bad thing. Stylish action, 
 terrific boss fights, and beautiful, melodramatic cutscenes will inspire you to push forward, and 
 they serve as an appropriate reward for a well-played sequence of demon slaying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Amazing game, nice graphics, loved the Boss fights, the combos, and the fighting style, from the 
 characters; the skills are just amazing :) . The story is not so deep but in the DMC series it has 
 never been, DMC series is always been about the action I would say. However DMC4 gets repetitive 
 and there is not so much difference from the previous DMC series, except a view changes in characters. 
 But in the end is definitely a good game and its entertaining. If you are a DMC fan then you should 
 play DMC4. 
  
  Cons:
  I wasn't good enough to pass most of the secret missions, ahhhh! : (
  I didn't find anything wrong 
 with the game. :P Another thing I did not like was the enemy diversity was not that vast, It got 
 very repetitive and it made just kind of boring at some parts during the game. But don't let that 
 stop you, it certainly did not stop me. ;P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_unreal
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is the new addition to the popular DMC franchise. The game features great action, 
 new characters, good boss fights and a lot more.
  
  In DMC4 you get to play as a new character -Nero, who also has supernatural power like Dante from 
 earlier DMC games. Nero has got a special right arm which comes in very handy and he also carries 
 a nice sword and a gun. You can play as Dante, but much later in the game. Both characters features 
 unique combos and special moves. Though you might find yourself using Nero's one particular special 
 move called Devil Buster over and over again.
  
  The game features lots of different enemies- dumb, heavily armoured, super fast, gigantic and lot 
 more. The boss fights can be repetitive though. The game lacks placement of proper checkpoints. 
 In fact if you die you'll have to play the whole level again. The good thing is you get to fight 
 dozens of enemies at a time - its a one man show. There are levels where you need to solve puzzles 
 however they are NOT very impressive.
  
  The story goes that Nero is an orphan raised by the "Order" ( Men who fights demons) . One day in 
 a ceremony of the order Dante ( the bounty hunter who hunts demons) invades and attempts to assassinate 
 the Order Leader - His Holiness. Nero is en-tasked to find Dante for prosecution. But the twist 
 in the story entwines the fate of the two. Also there's a romantic relation between Nero and a 
 girl- Kyrie who is the sister of an order sergeant.
  
  Oh, and try not to play the game with the keyboard use a game controller. Over all the game is 
 real fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgn420
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  The game is really a cool game, great graphics, excellent combat controls. Yes, it also comes with 
 the  and a lifeless script.
  
  I think the most important thing for current game developers is to hire some really good script 
 writer, not some cheap Hollywood writer and third class novelist. Game with a good story can really 
 sell quite good and will attract many more people, like Bioshock. And the most important thing 
 for such kind of game is: the story and the game won't be easily forgotten.
  
  Back to this game. The difficulty is significantly lowered, which makes the 4th sequel looks like 
 some fast food just prepared for everybody. Yes, we can find out that since DMC3 ported to PC. 
 But for all the fans, it's still a perfect game whic you can't miss. That's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteTigerX
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I never saw the anime or whatever. Never played any other game of this serie, so i was kinda... 
 floating around with the story. But with Internet i kinda get it.
  Anyway this game is surprisingly good. The graphics are... GREAT, and it doesn't need a great PC 
 to run'em. The story is kinda nice, and the character is cool.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Well i don't have a game pad and that tricky camera... i can't atack and change the camera at the 
 same time, the camera is kinda tricky, maybe with a gamepad would be nicer, BUT, you don't need 
 a gamepad to play the game. We can play it , and enjoy without it ( just a small note, Stupid Windows, 
 you can't press more than 3 buttons at the same time  . )
  Anyway, in terms of gameplay it reminds me a bit of Lego Star Wars. A bit I mean... a lot. First 
 is the Camera, very look alike. Then you stand up on some crap, and you can do that long jump, 
 well at Lego SW you have the same thing. Anyway, i like the Fighting System, reminds me of other 
 games i used to play in times... ~
  
  Graphics:
  
  Just Oh My God... the graphics are very good, the cinematics are great. And my PC which has a very 
 old graphic card, can run it well. No Glitches or whatsoever.
  I Mean, how is it possible to have Good Graphics, and then Run it Well? I was thinking, that I 
 would need to put all at Minimum, and 800x600 , but no. 
  
  Sound: Man I love the soundtrack. Recently I got 5.1 Surround System , and 
  OH SNAP. 
  While 
 i was playing i was noticing some music at my Back, and i thought TV was on, but no, in front i 
 had the Speech, effects, killings, blood, and at rear it was the music, which I kinda like it. 
 Great Thing the 5.1 Surround System to the game, i tried with Headphones, and it is not that great. 
 So I guess for full experience, get 5.1
  
  
  Overall:
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Sound 8.5/10
  Gameplay 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda_adict
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  ok, lets do this gamespot style. first the good, then the bad.
  
  Good:
  -
  -amazing fighting that keeps you on the edge of your seat
  
  -magnificent graphics, and even 
 better cut scene graphics
  
  -this game has a great story, and the the new characters are fun, although Nero and Dante look 
 like the same person with a few years difference and the beard
  
  -funny and intriguing dialog
  
  -a lot of blood
  
  -Nero is a great addition
  
  -more 
 blood
  
  -doesn't have as frustrating a level of difficulty as devil may cry 3
  
  -great boss battles
  
  -great replay value
  
  -and finally, more blood
  
  -controls 
 take some getting used to, but usually seem good after all the talk ofyou need a game pad
 which is totally untrue i find.
  
  Bad:
  
  -although not as frustratingly difficult as DMC3, this game has a much more frustrating and irritating 
 camera. Forget those creatures, that camera is your most dangerous enemy
  
  -actually, forget the camera, the platforming is irritating as hell ( no pun intended ) , and you'll 
 be crying after the 50th try for some of those annoying platforming missions and secret missions
 
  
  -punishing difficulty
  
  -Nero doesn't have enough variety of weaponry, and you don't use dantes weapons enough
  
  -game 
 is too short, but because of unlockable difficulties and great replay value, it's not that bad
 
  
  -you repeat many of bosses, and Dante's part of the game is mainly Nero's story backwards
  
 
  
  
  and now, for more specific scores
  
  graphics: 10/10
  great modeling and animation, amazing action and during game play, this game is still mesmerizing.
 
  
  sound: 10/10
  the voice acting is great and the sound effect are amazing, but what really hit me was the background 
 music which was usually calm and gave a great feeling, but when fights started, it switched to 
 hard rock/metal, which was great for the feeling and also warned you when monsters were near
  
  game play: 9/10
  the fighting and normal game play deserves a 10, but the platforming brings 
 it down to 9
  
  difficulty: 9/10
  inconsistent difficulty, which is usually good, but is sometimes to hard or WAY to easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FearBoo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Il start with what I dont like about the game: they took the wall running ability and the combo 
 there you spin around on our sword (Dante) , (Nero) I dont understand how his gun works and Vergils 
 avatar doesn't stay visible when you stay still.
  Pretty small complaints because the game is just so so good.
  I like Dante's new moves. He's 
 still the same BAD-A$$ from Devil May Cry 3. Hi's new weapons are pretty cool, especially "Pandora's 
 Box", to bad it doesent 666 moves: P
  but the gilgamesh is a copy of beowulf (lack of imagination) .
  The Style Rank system is pretty 
 weird, I mean SUPER SICK STYLE......... also lack of imagination.
  But still a awesome game but could be better.
  Ohh ya all most forgatten.... Nero is allot eseyer 
 to play then Dante but that doesent make him eny less powerful.
  I actually like Nero's moves more, and his taunts as well.: P
  All in all the game is br8 but 
 I think I like Devil may Cry 3 more (not sure) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pride_of_Hiigar
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Well, some games such as NFS tried to change there genera or change the main character and were 
 a total bust. DMC4 however was not one of those games. I was having second thoughts before buying 
 it from the shop. The fact that Dante wasn't the main character was the reason, however, even me 
 being a hardcore Dante fan had changed my opinion on the game as it has a very addictive storyline 
 which will such you in at the very start. The new character Nero is cool, but there wasn't a little 
 extra that Dante had, but the fact that their on the same side made that black spot go away. You 
 still get to see Dante show-off and that was all that mattered. 
  The new character controls are excellent and easy to pick-up. The add-on of Dante being able to 
 change Style in the middle of a battle make your imagination go wild. This is worth buying any 
 day.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayjohansson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game has good graphics. The gameplay is fast paced but distinctly console/arcade style.
  
  I wanted to write this to help any PC gamers who were considering spending their hard earned 
 cash on it.
  
  First, an Xbox style controller is pretty much a must. If you do not own a console and are not 
 accustomed to playing on those types of controls, you're going to find the controls cumbersome 
 and awkward. As someone who exclusively plays PC games, I at least found this to be the case. Even 
 if you somehow come up with a key scheme using keyboard + mouse you may find it quite unwieldy.
 
  
  The camera angles work like the Prince of Persia approach where it switches as you move around, 
 to random locations. This can also feel odd.
  The camera can be controlled and rotated, but only sometimes.
  
  The combat is fast paced but 
 straight up arcade style. It combines Matrix style "physics" with quick gamepad combo button play, 
 reminiscent of a new school Mortal Kombat in some ways. Basically, it feels like a 2008 video game 
 standing in an arcade at the mall. For some, that may be a huge plus. It is what it is.
  
  For those who are into this kind of thing, I'd give it a 7. You'd probably be happier passing on 
 it. I really think you'll be disappointed. I'm not bashing the game, I just think it is an acquired 
 taste. Unless you are very comfortable with xbox and console style controllers and gameplay, you 
 will probably find this outside of your comfort zone and range of appeal. It's very old school 
 in its core mechanics, although the graphics are solid.
  
  Just an honest review, not bashing the title. Some of the things above may be a huge positive to 
 others. I can only review this from my perspective, and I am not much of a fan of this type of 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven6666
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I don't like this kind of game where you have 9 keys all the time pressed,,, but after saw the 
 little details in personages and scenes... I didn't stop playing until finishing the game.
  
  I never saw previous sequels of this game, but for now on, I will be watching for news of Devil 
 May Cry. 
  
  Some people can think there are better kind of games, but this is the best conjugation of graphics 
 and sound I have ever saw until today... 
  
  At the begging is some kind hard to play, but then you start to have preference moves, but like 
 Gamespot Review, it's better to have a gamepad, which I don't have, never then less I think now 
 I will by one and enjoy more.
  
  When playing games, as a programmer and a enthusiast of games, I like to notice little details... 
 characters moves, debris, floor, shadows, sky and this game have everything it's need to be done.
 
  
  Notice inside of the coat the texture...
  Skins of each personages...
  Watter reflections...
  
  Even the womens are very well too :)
  
  I recommend this game...
 
  It's very well money spent... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luyut
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  im running the game with xp pro,5000+ BE ,2ghb crucial and asus 8600gt. graphic not so good nway. but 
 i was a great game with new features!! like nero skill so much .. devil bringer really brougt new 
 stylish skills. but i dont like dante new suit kinda gay,,, miss the old dmc3 dante.. more cool. i 
 finished the game in 2 days. it is moderately hard not so easy not so hard. everyone will like it. compared 
 to other series... dmc4 is quite amazing and outstanding. but i think eveyone want better graphic 
 performance. dx 10 and dx9 not so differ. i hope dmc5 will be more exciting and got a lot of surprise 
 for DMC fans outside. dx 10 and dx9 not so differ. i hope dmc5 will be more exciting and got a lot 
 of surprise for DMC fans outside. dx 10 and dx9 not so differ. i hope dmc5 will be more exciting 
 and got a lot of surprise for DMC fans outside. dx 10 and dx9 not so differ. i hope dmc5 will be 
 more exciting and got a lot of surprise for DMC fans outside. dx 10 and dx9 not so differ. i hope 
 dmc5 will be more exciting and got a lot of surprise for DMC fans outside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graavigala
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  After finally getting this game to PC I was excited to play it, but not without gamepad but alas 
 when I got my new gamepad it didnt work, or more precisely my computer didnt want to accep it by 
 some stupid USB problem. So that is why im not going to tell you about gameplay, because I played 
 with keyboard, other that gamepad IS A MUST!!!!
  
  The story of the game starts as little fuzzy but as you play through the game it will become clear 
 and more interesting by the minute, as like the first 5minutes of the game wasnt interesting enough!
 
  
  The first thing that got under my skin was that the game introduces new hero, Nero, to the DMC 
 universe. Im not saying that he is bad hero, Im simply saying that I dont like him. For me DMC 
 has always been about Dante and not some angsty teen. But as you play the game you and you get 
 to know Nero more he starts to grow on you is not as bad as you tought first. The new Devil Bringer 
 skill is also very handy (no pun intented) .
  After about 60 or 70% of the game you get to play as Dante and when you do, you actualy miss the 
 lack of DevilBringer but I think that makers tought that the game was starting to remind more Castlevania 
 than DMC. So to that I just have one thing to say and that is why not make the game like that from 
 the start? I guess we just have to hope for DMC4special edition with nothing but just Dante!
  
  The animations of the game are beatiful, and if you have been playing the previous games you 
 know that the fighthing in the games have gotten more acrobatic with every game, and this one isnt 
 any change to that! DB brings more options of whacking the enemies and it really brings the airfighting 
 up. At sometimes you feel like you spend most time in the air than on the ground fighting enemies, 
 but as you do so you will be rewarded with some of the most stylish moves you ever seen. (I have 
 to say that as I did play with keyboard I cheated and used automatic for the sake of my board not 
 breaking)
  
  The games difficulty is about same as DMC3 had, which was said to be very difficult. To that I 
 have to say **** DMC3 wasnt hard game, it was easy when you learnt it, and same applies to this 
 game. Once you learn the tricks of the game its easy as pie, but remains still challencing.
  
  Games music follows also the games style from the 3rd installation of the game more than from 
 1st and 2nd. The game has very nice and calming choir music but when things heat up the music turns 
 into metal which just makes things more fun.
  
  Overall the game is great experience for all the DMC veterans but its also easy to learn if you 
 are new to the game series, thanks to Nero. But there is still things that bug and that is the 
 new hero. I cant but whine about the lack of Dante in the game, even thou he was huge part of the 
 story, I wanted him to be the main character as he has been in the previous 3games. I wonder why 
 they didnt excecute the game like they did on the 2nd instalment of the game and have two different 
 storys for both characters.
  
  My final score comes to 8, a must buy for all DMC fans and as final words, this game is better 
 than NinjaGaiden! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiko_lazevski
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is Masterpiece, and Cap com really need to be respected cause this game has something 
 that the most games don't have and that is the wonderful bloodthirsty game play whit combination 
 of stunning graphics and nice story, all in one. I don't need to comment the game play it just 
 grows on you and you can't stop smashing the demons whit the unique designed weapons. All demons 
 are well designed and the Bosses are so epic, unique. About the graphics, hm, i don't think that 
 someone will say bad word for it, Cap com are known as producer of good graphic-look games such 
 as Lost Planet: Extreme Condition (witch i play on low settings :p) . The story is not bad, your 
 character name is Nero and your task is to pwn the devils, the voice acting is special and unique. 
 There are other specifications that improve the look of the game, but i don't need to talk about 
 them right now i think i said enough. I give this game one BIG 10 cause i really thing it deserves 
 it and Cap com do so. It improved my expectations it really did :) . I hope they will make Devil 
 May Cry 5 cause im crazy about this product. Best wishes to Cap com and keep making good games 
 like this of course. That is all. 
  
  - - - -   k i k o _ l a z e v s k i,
  S k o p j e,
  M a c e d o n i a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shailesh_das
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  For me Devil May Cry is another Masterpiece by Capcom after Resident Evil Series. I loved every 
 aspect of it. This is the second most perfect Console to PC Port after Gears of War. The last Resident 
 Evil 4 Pc port was horrible but Capcom has taken care this time and DMC4 PC has (i think) surpassed 
 the Consoles.
  
  
  DMC 4 is so amazing i dont have words to describe it. Its amazing in every level. It is so rich 
 you feel as the part of the game. Nero and Dante gives you a heroic feeling and you become a part 
 of the game. The game sucks you in. Every Character in the game is superb and you can view its 
 history in the game.
  Graphics is so visaully rich and amazing i think Capcom has got their own Counterpart of Unreal 
 3 Engine.
  
  Story is superb and nicely described in Cutscenes. 
  Gameplay is like never-saw-such- thing -on -PC. Combos are superb.
  Its so amazing it reminds 
 me of Mortal Kombat. 
  Sounds of demons, swords are perfect. Combat music is superb. 
  The game has got a lot of style.
  The game is full of mind blowing, action packed story cutscenes 
 which you can select in theatre after finishing the game.
  
  Controls are just right and you can learn it within an hour if you are using a keboard. If you 
 got gamepad than its a breeze.
  
  
  The game is highly replayable as Capcom has (as always) kept a lot of goodies to be unlocked after 
 completing it under different modes. 
  
  
  I dont know why Gamespot didnt gave it Editor's Choice and 9+ rating. And nowadays Gamespot ratings 
 are more biased its hard to trust in their rating system. I still cant believe they gave Assasin's 
 Creed 8 rating.
  
  I thanks Capcom for bringing this game to PC with its full glory and not just a crappy port like 
 Resident Evil 4 which was still very enjoyable.
  
  It is truly an amazing and unique PC game I ever saw in my PC gaming life.
  
  I highly RECOMMEND 
 this game for every PC Gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkblue20x
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  
  Guess GameSpot review persons dont have a decent PC.. LOL.. Or maybe yet a fanboy of consoles... 
 really irritates me with this review. I hope they dont get biased next time.. PC will always dominate 
 consoles.. remember that !! Hmmm and yeah DMC4 rocks... specially PC version.. ayayaaayyyyy !! Sigh, 
 im having difficulty maintaining 100 words.. There is nothing more i can say.. but hmm kinda hungry... 
 need to eat soon.. this is hard, 100 words, oh come on !!
  Guess GameSpot review persons dont have a decent PC.. LOL.. Or maybe yet a fanboy of consoles... 
 really irritates me with this review. I hope they dont get biased next time.. PC will always dominate 
 consoles.. remember that !! Hmmm and yeah DMC4 rocks... specially PC version.. ayayaaayyyyy !! Sigh, 
 im having difficulty maintaining 100 words.. There is nothing more i can say.. but hmm kinda hungry... 
 need to eat soon.. this is hard, 100 words, oh come on !!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boris_viper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  After long waiting for DMC4 it is finally here.... but was it worth waiting? I guess the answer 
 is not a valid yes or no and i'm gonna tell you why.
  DMC3 is known for its simple yet crazy gameplay , few moves are known (unlike game like god of 
 war) but with these simple moves , many complected combos could be created. thanks to the gameplay 
 , the strong graphics and dynamic character movement DMC 3 was perfect.
  DMC 4 saved the gameplay and it is likely to say it has not even changed . Dante uses the same 
 gameplay as DMC3 and Nero is a bit different but basically the same, but when you get used to Nero 
 in the first chapters , it is hard to play with Dante and you get used to Dante it is hard to let 
 go of it for Nero.
  Basically the game dosen't offer anything new , thats good cause the gameplay remains awesome and 
 it's bad because you get bored specially when you get to fight the fire boss thing (!) and play 
 the same chapters with both Dante & Nero. and the enemies are only good for disturbing and not only 
 they are ugly but are like wooden targets waiting to be torn apart! but the bosses are quiet challenging 
 and exiting specially when the two hunters fight with each other.
  the graphic is one off the best of the year , full of color and very beautiful , and the ingame 
 movies are perfect , Dante dancing tango is breath taking...
  there is so much to say about the game but i'll pass it to right man and stop right here...
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  1. Technical Issues
  2. Graphics
  3. Story
  4. Gameplay
  
  1. Technical issues - This is one of the best console ports i've played so far. Still you have 
 to posses a gamepad to play. Or to have take piano lessons as a child as this is on only way to 
 work with all the combo buttons with keyboard.
  
  2. Graphics - Outstanding. I've managed to put all the graphics at high at 1280x780 with AA x 16 
 and the framerate on the test dropped only one time under 60 frame during a fight in a open space 
 with a lot of sunlight and shadows around.
  
  3. The story introduce a new hero to the Devil May Cry Series - Nero. Most of the game you will 
 play with him. The story sucks you in and you keep playing just to see what will happen next. 
 
  
  4. Gameplay - The gameplay doesn't differ much from the one in Devil May Cry 3. The only new thing 
 is the Nero's Devils hand which allows you a few new tricks and 2-3 new puzzles which can be solved 
 with it. Otherwise if you have played DMC3 you will feel in home. Cool combos, orbs, combat adjudicators. 
 The game is hard. You can easily complete most of the missions but completing them with a good 
 rank is quite annoying. Most of the secret missions are made so you can lose at least half your 
 braincells. You will probably break a gamepad or two while trying to beat them...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: laugm
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  Great cutscenes (dante is as funny as ever and hot spanish guy too :P) uh nicely animated chicks 
 and interesting story :) , poor credo, he was a nice guy for a really tough boss fight
  
  In my opinion the cutscenes should not be really skipped, you probably need to mentally prepare 
 for the boss ^^
  
  The puzzles also seem to change based on diff lvls and nero and dante together make for an interesting 
 double act (fitting in nero and dante in the game with 2 of the biggest egos ever was probably 
 not easy :P)
  
  Dante's new devil arms are really good (lucifer has a rose to throw to explode all your blades 
 :P) and gilgamesh is basically beowulf who learned a bit of taekwondo kicking :D
  
  As for pandoras box, well is amazing (it fits into the style switching concept of dante :D) (gatling 
 gun, rocket launcher bazooka, missile lauching fortress that flies....... and a superb blasting 
 weapon that dante used on me in legendary dark knight mission one......)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnmachine21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is in Dx10 with greatly higher fps, and the beauty in this game by far surpasses the 
 console version. Also as far as the game pad goes... YES you probably want to get one... BUT!
 
  
  -BUT, that doesn't mean you HAVE to get a gamepad, they allow you to setup your own keyboard key 
 controls .. anything you want , so if you spend maybe 10 minutes on the keybindings, you can have 
 your own keyboard setup that's pretty comfy & fluid.
  
  Their review in my opinion is pretty innacurate, it's in NO way the same as the consoles. Go to 
 IGN. com read their review.. I hate to say it but IGN actually had a much better more accurate review 
 in my opinion, Gamespot tends to rate all console versions and PC versions the same all the time, 
 it's almost like they are paid to do so or don't want to spend the time. I know it sounds mean, 
 but you can check for yourself; just look up games that all platforms have. Most of the games ratings 
 will be exactly the same .
  
  If you can't spend 10 minutes of your time setting up your own better key bindings for the keyboard, 
 then go spend 20$ at newegg, or Bestbuy for a PC gamepad that works great.. and the contoller is 
 great for other arcade games or big games for people who are too wimpy to play with a highly accurate 
 keyboard and mouse. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDDRDEATH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I think there was quite a bit of thought put into this game. The story is solid, the bosses are 
 quite challenging on Devil Hunter mode and the game plays at 60 fps or more all settings maxed. 
 I do recommend the Xbox 360 controller for windows if you get this game, Using the keyboard will 
 be quite cumbersome. The game also seems to prefer the Xbox 360 controller over other also. I have 
 a Logitech RumblePad 2 and it didn't seem to like it. DMC 3 was the other way around however. But 
 that's ok; I like the 360 controller better in a way. It is a very addictive game as well. It will 
 keep you coming back to dish out more punishment. Day after day. The one thing I think they should 
 of tried to do is have online play. There are enough characters to choose from, each with their 
 own moves. So I think it could of been rather interesting. But in conclusion, if you have an Xbox 
 360, PS3 or PC and like this style gaming it is a must for your collection.
  
  
  Also, in response to the person talking about the annoying camera. I have played quite a few games 
 where the camera behaves in just that fashion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stranger_Pimp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  All the sets put you in a incredible and detailed world full of myst and incredible constructions! 
 
  The graphics in it self make a real good presence and there are no bugs or what so ever that I 
 noticed playing the game.
  The game runs really well if you have the right machine to do so.
  
  The storyline is very 
 good and it takes you back to the other titles, but now the big part of the game is with Nero and 
 not Dante (both of them are in the game =) ) .
  
  The game is not really difficult, but the sufficient to make you spend some good hours in front 
 of the pc trying to take down the huge bosses that had incredible powers.
  
  Tha game playing is in general good, even for those that hadn't played the 3 titles before this 
 one. You learn to play it and do the incredible combos in a little time.
  
  Sometimes the camera is not the best that should be in the game, but usually shooters have that 
 problem, never then less this is a EXCELLENT game that is for taste of every player out there. 
 
  
  I have it so should you have it!! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alekxandru
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  I have played DMC3, and I can say that it was hard, Easy mode was something like Medium, and Medium 
 like Hard, so I had a rough time finishing it. I was actually glad to see that the difficulty in 
 DMC4 has been reduced, not to much, so yeah, it still is a challenge, but I love it for that.
 
  
  DMC4's new character, Nero, brings a very-welcomed fresh air to the series. It's pretty obvious 
 that he's from the same pot like Dante, seeing the cut-scenes. Talking about the cut-scenes, their 
 amazing, and the jokes are welcomed and pretty good. A game without a bit of humor is nothing. 
 So, back to Nero. He's a demon, he's tough (but softened by love) , and he has a glimmering hand, 
 which the game calls it the Devil Bringer. That hand is an important part in making combos, and 
 dude, the combos are spectacular. If you're having problems in making them by yourself, just turn 
 the Automatic Mode on, it helps most of the times (in the last boss encounter, for example, automatic 
 mode is kind of a pain, because it turns the devil mode on when you don't need it) . Getting new 
 moves has been changed a bit, you now need Proud Souls instead or Red Orbs, and if you're not satisfied 
 of your choice, you can just unlearn the skill and learn something else.
  
  I actually believe that the game is more than playable with a keyboard. The controls are simple, 
 and the buttons that start the entire action are close one to each other (WASD moving, I sword attack, 
 J gun attack, L devil bringer/style attack, K jump, N devil trigger, SPACE lock target) , so making 
 combos on a keyboard isn't that hard as you would believe, but yeah, it would probably be even 
 easier with a gamepad.
  
  The graphics are simply stunning, the game supports both DX9 and 10 and both look amazing. Just 
 as GameSpot pointed, it's just hard to pay attention to the action, when the environment looks 
 so great. One problem though... it gets repeating, as you have to move through the same places a 
 couple of times, but I didn't found that a problem, it was an opportunity to review some old secret 
 missions I couldn't passed at the beginning. Talking about secret missions, they are very challenging, 
 and hard, but when you finally managed to pass them, you just get a great feeling of satisfaction, 
 like "Dude, I'm sooo good, w00t, I passed the frakin mission, HELL YEAH, LEWL". You also get a 
 Blue Orb Fragment for completing them, and 4 fragments make a Blue Orb, which increases your life.
 
  
  The storyline is great, and it's sure to keep you going further in the game. It's about Nero finding 
 out the real face of his religious order, The Order Of The Sword, and of the leader of this order, 
 that planned to conquer the world, with the help of the Savior (a huge rock giant, that you'll have 
 to fight, yeah) and Yamato, Virgils' sword, the one that can open hell and close it. The voice acting 
 is just terrific, a good, solid example is when Nero failed to save his beloved, Kirie, just after 
 he defeated Angelo Agnus. The screams of pain, the anger, the suffering and the need of revenge 
 and to save his beloved, just to realistic and well made.
  
  The great thing about DMC4 are the boss encounters. The bosses are just very well made, they look 
 awesome, and fighting them is plain fun. You will have to fight some of them 3 times, though... Not 
 a bad thing, in my opinion, because they are a bit stronger than the first fight, and they just 
 test your skills more and more.
  
  So that's that! The game is just plain fun and great. Have fun playing!
  
  ~Alekxandru
  
 
  
  
  Graphics:10/10
  Sounds:10/10
  Storyline:9/10
  Multiplayer: N/A
  Impression:10/10
  
  Overall:9.75 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necorium
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  I was really surprised with this game. It looks amazing. Its fun to play and the boss fights are 
 something else. Also its the first port like this where you actually don't need the gamepad. Yes, 
 it does help but i got used to the keyboard in about ten minutes and then it didn't matter. The 
 graphics are amazing and running at a steady framerate on my medium spec cheapo pc. YAY for me 
 but that kind of shows that ps3 and 360 games aren't the best graphics out there. In fact when 
 i cranked everything up to full i think it looks better than its console counter parts. But enough 
 about that - i just thought it was interesting that this is the second console port i have played 
 that my crappy pc managed to match or out do the console versions.
  
  My only gripe with this game is the saving. Ok - sure its a hardcore game but some levels take 
 time to do right and i sometimes need to leave and do something but i can't save til the end of 
 the level. Thats really my only flaw i've found with it.
  
  If you don't have a console or you don't have this game i highly recommend getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HufflePuff-TLH
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  It was a nice game i have only played the first one in the series and then this one amazing graficks 
 in DX10 it realy looks so good, and a nice gameplay, puzzles and pure hack n slash. normal human 
 mode is a little easy in my oppinion, and the bosses aswell, and fighting the same boss 3 times 
 gets a little boring, but thats the only downside i can think of, and when you compleate the game 
 you get to play it in a much harder mode with more mobs to KILL, and then it gets much more fun. 
 the game has secret missions to some of then are realy hard if you havent upgraded a specifik skill 
 that is needed to compleate it, but they are fun and if you fail you can just try it over and over 
 again. Overall a realy NICE game, very well made few bugs and gameplay that sticks to you. recommended 
 for everyone that like this kind of gameplay or the series in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mejle12
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  yea DEVIL MAY CRY is a great series I play it all the time its just a lot of button mashing BUT 
 THE GAME is AWESOME I would prefer less button mashing BUT i like it For the PC there is a lot 
 of people who would prefer different game but my friends say the game is better than MOST Very 
 nice and HOPE U buy it and play with me i would not let someone under the age of 12 play because 
 of Language and Of course Blood and GORE the rating is off my 13 year old friend plays it i believe 
 it a little to young for him but very nice game 
 
  Its a good single player and game play is a very Good BEST IN the Series Good Luck See u AROund 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  When I played DMC 3 Special Edition on my PC I was disappointed with the graphics and the fact 
 that the game had terrible problems recognizing my gamepad. not only capcom managed to open those 
 problems in DMC 4 on the PC, they actually improved the graphics on the PC! the visuals are fantastic 
 and the action is ridiculously fun!
  The tutorial system starts teaching you the tricks from the very basic to the very advanced levels. 
 The action is variable and it is up to you how to fill the action bar at the top of the screen.
 
  Nero is a great improvement over the series. at first when I played with him I was hesitant to 
 go back to playing to Dante (At a certain level in the game you have to switch characters) . But 
 then again, when I played with Dante I didn't want to go back to Nero! Dante is faster and stronger 
 in this installation of the series and that makes the action bar CRAZY!
  I really loved everything about this game and I won't complain about the lack of new content since 
 the only DMC I played before lacked the standard quality for me to enjoy its features. now all 
 those features are packed into a fantastic game and I can enjoy them with the rest of the new content.
 
  Have fun playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardBoiledGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4, in my opinion, is definitely easier than Devil May Cry 3
  
  Plot:
  Nero, a young warrior, is on a mission to find Dante, but mysteriously, the city is attacked by 
 scarecrows and various demons that cause havoc within the city. As Nero's journey continues, he 
 realizes that somebody was behind all of this.
  
  Characters:
  Just like Dante, Nero has a sword and only a revolver. The difference is that Nero has a demonic 
 arm, which enables him to pull off some insane moves and attacks on enemies. You can also use those 
 red orbs and proud orbs to buy some of the returning items from the previous game and also new 
 moves for the sword. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in this game manages to keep the player on their toes since many enemies come either 
 in packs or the enemies are alone and extremely tough. The camera angles are natural. Players can 
 also use an Xbox 360 controller or a regular gamepad to play this (although i used the keyboard 
 for the whole game)
  
  Graphics
  I can say that the entire game looks extremely real and sharp in terms of the graphics, especially 
 the cutscenes, The graphics that was presented in this game made the cutscenes more realistic, 
 as if it was a movie
  
  The only flaw I could say about this game is that the bosses arent that difficult to be. Aside 
 from that, this game's plot, presentation are all excellent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  let me start by saying that this game is simply awsome!!!
  
  graphics: amazing graphic, looks great and graphic is one of the best things in the games of 2007\2008, 
 so thats one
  
  gameplay: its ok, im use to play with the mouse but thats still ok, you need only 3 keys to be 
 a master in that game: sword, gun, power punch, also that gameplay is very fun, when you making 
 combos at your enemys
  
  sounds: perfect sound effects and cool Rock Music when you get to a part when you need to fight 
 against alot of enemys simply perfect
  
  difficulty: great, i love what they did can play easy and also on really hardcore difficulty that 
 makes the game really hard and also fun
  
  also when you continue the game you can also play with dante not just nero and this is another 
 awsome thing in DEVIL MAY CRY 4
  
  so like i said before: DEVIL MAY CRY IS AMAZING GAME, very fun
  and its the best game of the 
 seiries.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me4656
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  As i said... it is dmc but it isnt the best in the series... in my opinion 3 was the best... this 
 just doesnt have as much options... the weapon selection is too small (7 weps for dante and 2 for 
 nero (ok...3 with the hand but i didnt count it as a weapon actually) ) and even these have... well 
 not much to rev up an awesome combo... i mean... go to youtube and compare dmc 4 and dmc 3 super 
 cool combo movies... you see that in dmc 3 you had fast paced action with some ultra cool visual 
 effects in it ( i mean... come on... a damn fire tornado with agni and rudra?!? F*****g electrical 
 bats flyng around you killing everything with nevan?!) but in dmc 4 you dont have it so much... it 
 isnt fast paced (some moves take alot of time to execute... so long that by that time in dmd you 
 would be dead if getting attacked wouldnt interrupt ur move...) and the effects arent even half 
 as cool... alright... gotta admit... devil bringer was cool at first but it will get old fast... and 
 the other thing to compare is the weapon controllability... in dmc 3 nevan was the hardest to control... it 
 took you 10 minutes to get ur first cool combo with it :D... but in dmc 4... lucifer... the hardest... it 
 will take u forever... and half of gilgameshes moves are soooooo sllllooooowwww.... beowulf in dmc3 
 had slow moves too but beowulfs slow moves compare to gilgameshes fast... oh and one more thing... demons 
 were alot cooler in dmc3... the only cool one in dmc 4 was berial... only thing truly good in dmc4 
 (and only thing that made me score it so high...) was the story... but in other aspects... it gets 
 owned hard by dmc 3... thanks for reading and im out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHOPGIG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 offers a variety of sword slashing moves pushing the genre toward a fighting and 
 adventure game. The only downfall to this game is the awkward automatic camera positioning and 
 keyboard control. There is a dedicated key (p) which can be pressed while reorienting the character 
 view during most game-play. The key stroke style excluding mouse movement is necessary to complete 
 the many in game attack styles. Aside from these issues, Devil May Cry 4 is a well polished game 
 founded on an excellent graphical engine. DVMC4 also exhibits characteristics of a role-playing 
 game by enabling the player to learn new moves, styles, and upgrade item capabilities. This game 
 offers many challenges , some of which are left at the individuals playing level. Thumbs up for 
 the visuals and well polished movie-like cut-scenes. I am eager to see how the story progresses. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddso01
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  I'm running this game on a DirectX 10 capable video card, so the only thing you could expect is 
 beautiful scenarios, but this along doesn't make a good game.
  The developers could only make half of this game, and duplicated it all for the game to look twice 
 as big as it actually is, changing some enemies skin colours here and there. For instance, you 
 will have to fight one of the bosses nothing less than four times during game play.
  The "macho-man" impact phrases that Nero and Dantes like to say before or after fights look like 
 something came out of the early 90's. Something like "Hasta la vista, baby!" or anything T-101 
 would say after killing someone. When I as a teenager, I fought this was cool, but now it's sounds 
 really boring. Actually, the role game is a macho-man game.
  And finally, what about that camera? It's one of the most annoying cameras I've ever seen. When 
 you are going to enter a room running forward and the camera is behind you, more than often, after 
 entering the room, the camera goes in front of you. This makes the forward way become the backward 
 way and you simply leave the room immediately from where you enter it. Now, considering that the 
 camera will turn again, you will reenter the room. This goes on and on until you just stop pushing 
 the directional button. So, every time you want to enter a room like this, you have to stop pushing 
 the directional button just after entering the room, breaking your rhythm. Awful. In a year with 
 GTA 4 and MGS 4, the developers of this game should be ashamed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demigod_r
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  After hating DMC 3, I was hesitant to pickup DMC 4 but I'm glad that I did. This game was just 
 plain good. Great graphics on both DX9 and DX10. You do not need a high end PC, just a good one 
 (HD3850 did the trick) . The better your monitor the sweeter it looks. The game pad worked perfectly. 
 I have a basic Logitech controller and was still able to remap the buttons but there was no need 
 to. I'm sure the 360 controller would have been nice to use but it wasn't necessary. This has to 
 be one of the best ports in a LONG LONG time. The boss battles were sweet. After I finished the 
 game the first time, I thought I was impressed; then I played it on the harder level I opened. 
 This was a completely different game the second tim around. Almost twice as hard but just as fun. 
 Ok, now this is a keeper that you can replay a few times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  What can y say about this game , it hasn't changed much it like R6V & R6V2 the gameplay is the 
 same but in a good way & only upgraded in a good way , supported by today's technology & a solid 
 presentation & intense storytelling ! Why do i consider the best HACK&SLASH game out there whenre 
 its because of the superb passing & the way that everythig reacts along side your main character 
 NERO/DANTE & how the aniamations combine with your button masshing .... in one way to put it its 
 a skilled based game & very tactical but olso features fluid combat like in Prince of Perisa WW/T2T 
 + every level is spiced up by superb unique artwork , every location havin its own aritecture & 
 seecrets , evan the enemies beeing very detailed & engaging ! After each great encounter you will 
 take a break with some of the most greatest cutscenes in the industry evan Hoollywood should learn 
 from CAPCOM about intense mind blowing scenes that olso features interesting twists & turns of 
 the story .... so if you know about Legacy of kain which is the same kind of game but probably with 
 the one of them ost deepest storylines ever ... the same goes with DMC series but in a more rockish 
 & agressive way ! I recomend this game to any one who wants to take a break from so many shooters 
 this days & for those who adapt easily to hack&slash games i'm sure that they will play it more 
 than once .... i've just finished but this kind of rare games on PC lets you wanting more of this 
 kind of thrils so i will play i again at least until the new PoP has arrived ! Ow i forgot t mention 
 that this game fetures superb platforming & some mind blowing but logical intriguing puzzles that 
 once you have understand makes perfect sense :D !& ough & speaking a about the controls they are 
 superb i have played DMC3 & DMC4 without problems on the keyboard ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Lucifer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  where do i start from? the game is amazing, im a huge fan of the series, and devil may cry 4 certainly 
 surpass it prequels and sequels, its a bit toned down according to the previous version but its 
 a really cool game. first off the graphics, looks brilliant and very detaliled, and u get to turn 
 everything on and off, and control the framerate, however theres a bit of a stutter caused by shadows 
 i guess. second comes the story which is well told, and animated. the story is brilliant, giving 
 the players two devils to play with, nero the hero of this part or sequel, and dante the series' 
 hero, its said that nero is related to sparda somehow, but how its a secret probablly, for the 
 next game, who knows, but i think it would have been better if capcom had shed some light on nero, 
 as what is said about him is very little, and the origin of his arm and how he got it. having said 
 this, next issue is the gameplay-which is very fun by the way-as nero, theres no styles to change 
 from (unlike dante whom he has 5 different styles) he has a very strong devil arm, it so powerful 
 and effective in gameplay, so surpsingly nero plays better than dante, like in devil may cray 3 
 dante played better than vergil, anyways, when beginning a new game, nero is the choice by default 
 till after half way through the game ( 20 missions and dante is available after 11th mission) , 
 but the problem is dante and nero plays the same missions over and over again, it could have used 
 more levels for dante, but i like it this way, and i dont know why. the secret missions in the 
 game are exremly hard, its innovative, but yet very frustrating.
  the achievables in the game are way better than dmc, except for the costumes, we had plenty of 
 costumes in dmc3, but this one gives only the super dante and nero, so luckily-since it has finally 
 got on pc-someone can mod for us some cool costumes.
  last but not least is the controls, for people who dont have a gamepad for any reason, this game 
 is a total frustration played with a keyboard, as i mentioned before, the secret missions are hard 
 when u play with a keyboard.
  finally i would always love to see more great games from capcom on pc, thank you capcom for letting 
 us enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andreicucuiet
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  First of all i love this game. I've been expecting it from Christmas to come to the PC. And now it's 
 finnally here. And it is a great port. On with the review.
  
  Graphics
  The game looks beutiful (WRONG...) . It has great textures its really shiny (lol) and is more colorful 
 then ever (not that thats a bad thing) . It surely looks better on the pc and it runs on even a more 
 smaller pc. Everything looks great and has the appropiate lighting. The effects like fire and lightning (yeah 
 blitz you're the one i'm talking about) look generally OK.8.99/10
  
  Gameplay
  Well in one word the gameplay ROCKS. R-O-C-K-S. The boss battles the devil trigger and the combos 
 are just a joy to use/perform/KICK ASS (boss) . I donno about you but i find this game ACTUALLY entertaining 
 and fun.9... ok ok lets say 10/10
  
  Sound
  The games sound is pretty good altough im little bit bored of hearing Nero schreechi (WRONG) and/or 
 yell. Kyrieeeeee (sory not allowed more letters because i dont wanna damage anyones bowser.. i mean 
 browser) ....... see that was anoying whasn't (WRONG) it???
  
  This game is cool and i like it end of story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adversary16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  I didn't know it was that stylish! Indeed, the moves are awesome, the combat mechanics are fun 
 and the cut-scenes are superb. I'm new to the DMC series but I've once tried DMC 3, which I didn't 
 like; the game-play was unforgiving and didn't go easy on newcomers. Luckily, DMC 4 looks as if 
 it was made for newbies!
  
  This time around, DMC features high-definition visuals and by that I mean, true eye-candy graphics! 
 Furthermore, the performance seems to be great - DX10 included and few or no bugs at all! Speaking 
 of hardware, though, I personally reckons that it plays best with a controller, unlike Assassin's 
 Creed which I believe doesn't need one but it highly depends on your personal tastes and styles 
 of playing.
  
  What I really didn't like about DMC 4 was the fact that environments and battles would look more 
 or less the same over time. I somehow also dislike the "arcady" feeling attached to it but I guess 
 this is what DMC is all about and that's why the fans love it.
  
  This leads me into closing this DMC review with:
  "This gaming genre isn't for everyone, let 
 alone for hardcore PC gamers, so try the demo first! It might appeal to you like it appealed to 
 me!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrmanotb
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are good to great, However game play is severely reduced due to the clumsy keyboard input 
 that is needed. aside from that the char development is good and of couse the storyline holds up 
 its end of the bargin. Its just a shame that they wouldnt spend enough time to make this game playable 
 on the pc. Like most games these days it is very apperant that they put publishing in front of 
 good programing and forward thinking. So if your looking for a true pc game this is not it take 
 your search and your 50 bucks elsewhere.
  My advice, skip it or just play it on the console.
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwilletts
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  A third person acting fighting game set on the PC and controlled with the keyboard? There is no 
 way in hell that it would work, well, Devil May Cry 4 not only proves a fighting game can work 
 on the PC, it shows that when time and effort are put into the title the end product can be on 
 the better PC games of the year. 
  
  Devil May Cry 4 is a gorgeous game, with a plethora of in-game options to customize the graphics 
 to run at an acceptable frame rate on your computer. From Cathedrals to Castles the imagery is 
 truly stunning, water effects are brilliant and show that the Pc is truly the graphics powerhouse 
 in today's console generation. Having played both the Xbox 360 and Pc version I can definitively 
 say the Pc not only looks better but plays better, throughout the entire game my frame rate never 
 fell below 60 FPS which is an astounding accomplishment. DMC4 allows the player to choose between 
 playing with Direct X 9 or 10 graphics depending on the operating system. 
  
  What truly makes a game great though is the actual game play and DMC4 is no slouch in this regard. 
 Players control the new hero, Nero in his quest to apprehend Dante who must answers for his crimes. 
 Nero is a complete badass, I mean first off he carries a huge sword and every guy wants the main 
 character to have a huge sword and the sword isn't the best part. His right arm is called the "Devil 
 Bringer" and can be used to attack or grab enemies and then thoroughly punish them. The combat 
 is deeply satisfying and brutal. While the pace is slower than that of Ninja Gaiden 2, it is fast 
 enough to keep you entertained and the enemies give a strategic challenge where you cannot spam 
 a single attack and hope to come out on top. 
  
  Capcom took its time with this Pc port and spent plenty of time trying to figure out a control 
 scheme that not only worked but was simple as well. Character movement is controlled with WASD 
 keys and different attacks are controlled with IJKL keys. The space key is used to target an enemy 
 and by combining the WASD with IJKL combos can easily be pulled off. While I wasn't able to play 
 it with the help of a 360 controller like many people have suggested, my experience of the game 
 wasn't diminished in any regard and in fact I felt like I was in more control of the combat using 
 the keyboard. The single complaint I have for the control scheme is you cannot use the mouse in 
 any way to handle the camera. At times the camera will be looking at your face while running towards 
 the camera which prevents the player from seeing what lies ahead. While this doesn't detract heavily 
 from the overall experience it is a minor nuisance that may annoy some players.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 isn't a typical Pc port, it is its own version complete with new features excluded 
 from the console versions. While it may not reach the same level of publicity as the console version 
 it may very well carve out its own niche audience who are very happy with the latest version. Pc 
 gamers should definitely give Devil May Cry 4 a shot as it is one of the best Pc titles this year. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertofilgueir
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 brings Nero, a guy who has a demoniac hand. It's powered by a kind of magic energy 
 that allows him to do what the game never hadn't before: a trouble-minded character. Ok ok, it 
 seems very nice, but the storyline it self isn't that consistent. Tons of scenes between the game-play 
 almost make it a movie - but not a nice one, cause you can't play it - that you have to wait for 
 boring moments to really get in action.
  The game-play is easy and if you had played the other games fo the series, is more to the intuitive. 
 And even if it's your first time, a few moves and you get it. The major problem is that the combos 
 that you buy in-game are enormous button pressing for quite a while and a player that hadn't get 
 used to the joystick won't be able to effective play them.
  So, the big question is that if you are a big game-player that spend some daily hours on your game 
 addiction, so you will enjoy it. But, if it's your first time on the game or you look for some 
 fun without commitment, this isn't a nice choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_t0rqc-1xd
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  IF you are a fan or a supporter or whatever of The Devil May Cry series, you will know what to 
 expect and like this sequel. what I like about it is that they look for fast paced action sequences 
 that require solid timing instead of button mashing. Enormous sarcasm along the ways like a normal 
 Devil May Cry sequel. 
  
  See if you were a Dante fan, Dante fans may find themselves a bit disappointed in their favorite 
 character's new role within the series: instead of taking over the spot light as he has in the 
 previous three games, the anti-hero takes on a secondary position to franchise newcomer Nero. Nero 
 is more of the face in this game, give him a chance. lol. I hope this isn't bad news for you Nero 
 haters. Nero is in fact a younger version of Dante, just as skilled as the son of Sparda and with 
 higher ability levels that makes him a wee bit sadistic in this game. You'll love it. BTW, Nero 
 has access to both projectile and melee strikes thanks to his unique weaponry, the Blue Rose and 
 the Red Queen. Just thought you should know this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2806,0. html
  
  Capcom has recently been giving the PC a lot of love with numerous multiplatform releases usually 
 featuring PC-specific enhancements. While the quality of ports tends to vary (see Resident Evil 
 4 vs Lost Planet) it is refreshing to see a developer recognize the PC as another platform where 
 they could release their games. While initially announced as a Playstation 3 exclusive, Capcom 
 quickly added Xbox 360 and PC release dates for Devil May Cry 4. Even though the PC version took 
 a little longer to release, PC gamers will be rewarded with added gameplay features and a better 
 visual presentation.
  
  DMC4 is a third-person action game that makes use of a range of movements, attacks, and combos 
 that allow you to kill a multitude of demons. The game is the same fast-paced action title that 
 graced the Xbox 360 and PS3 several months ago and is a great game for fans of previous titles 
 in the series, but is unlikely to convert anyone who disliked them.
  
  The technical side of the port is done extremely well. Using our 9800GTX-equipped system (a $200 
 card) , we could barely detect any stutters with the game quality settings ratcheted up to their 
 highest values and AA applied. The engine is allegedly the same one used for Lost Planet, and it 
 is apparent that many optimizations have taken place since that game's PC debut. This only increases 
 our confidence in Capcom's other upcoming PC releases like the new Bionic Commando.
  
  Gameplay-wise, there's a "Legendary Dark Knight" difficulty mode that more than doubles the amount 
 of enemies on screen. Mind you, this is obviously for only the most hardcore of DMC players. Even 
 though the PC's general audience wouldn't normally have the experience to play with this mode, 
 perhaps the reasoning was to encourage console players to try this game and others on the PC. Unfortunately, 
 the game doesn't support the mouse as in RE4's port, although it is understandable considering 
 a gamepad would be best-tailored for this game. The Xbox 360 controller works without difficulties.
 
  
  DMC4 is essentially the same game released on consoles in the spring, though we give much kudos 
 to Capcom for taking the time to optimize their engine so drastically and adding PC-specific features. 
 This is undoubtedly the premiere version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexSupreme
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  First of all let me start with the fact that Devil May Cry is a "hack & slash", it's a no brainer 
 that tells you to fillow some target from the start to the end while leaving a mass of piled up 
 corpses after yourself.
  
  From the beginning, you can see that originally this game was designed for the consoles and the 
 only reason it was shipped to the PC is because of the additional profit Capcom would make.
  
  The game controls are based on a gamepad (a, b, x, y + analog) .
  The instructions for the game 
 were lightly modified to suit the PC, but nothing more. It's a console that's best player on a 
 CONSOLE.
  
  Even though the controls do not use all the benefits of mouse and keyboard, overall controlling 
 your main character is not as challenging as it may sound, the best analogy that I can find is 
 that it's like playing a driving game with a keyboard; it looses it's point but it's still fun 
 and overall playable.
  
  Now to the rankings:
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Graphics: 10/10
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The graphics get a 10/10 for two reasons:
  First of all the game is very well designed, the characters 
 are beautiful, the scene suits the story well and the details are to die for.
  It doesn't have that sand box world that you can explore as you wish or the extensive details like 
 every RPG should have, but it has what counts most, extremely well built environment (slightly 
 cliche too) , amazing enemy and player details and what counts most: the remarkable slashing and 
 power attack effects.
  
  The second reason for the 10/10 is that this game works smooth under max details, shadows and 2x 
 AA on my 8600GT & pentium 4 3.0GHZ.
  Which I must say rather amazing for such graphics.
  
  
  So yeah, 10/10 for doing what it's supposed to.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sounds: 9/10
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  If the sounds were just a bit less monotonic I would've given it a 10/10.
  Action driven soundtrack 
 as an excellent background music with some fine slashing effects to really sense that you land 
 a hit.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay: 8/10
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Here is where this game's greatest failure.
  DMC4 gameplay can be described with a sentence:
  Onimusha 4 with jumping.
  Although some extra 
 effects were added, the gameplay is still the same, you start a level with a declaration of: "This 
 is mission 1, make it fast and beautiful to earn extra points".
  Throughout the game you run through a series of rooms to eventually reach a final boss which you 
 beat through a magnificent variety of techniques in order to move to the next level.
  
  The character controls and the camera don't fully utilize the efficiency of the keyboard and the 
 mouse and instead you use only keyboard to move around and execute all your amazing moves.
  
  One thing that bothered me the most is the absolute lack of saving games in the middle of the 
 progress.
  I'm quite aware that you theoretically must change the game entirely in order for it to work correctly, 
 but still, without that you must complete a level (which may take about half an hour) or your entire 
 progress is lost.
  I found that irritating at times.
  
  Overall, it does it's job and the controls aren't that hard to adjust to, but it's just sad that 
 this is a PC version of a CONSOLE game.
  Sorry to say it, but even Mass Effect development crew worked harder to transfer the game from 
 the x360 to the PC.
  Quite disappointed at that.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~ Overall: 9/10 
 ~
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  It does exactly what it has to do, and even with the sucky controls you will still sit for hours 
 while drooling endlessly, beating up small minions and great bosses until eventually you will have 
 to sleep and eat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS2_FAN
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can we say. We all know that capcom is not considered as a PC game master, neither are 
 its game made for this system. Most of games, including DMC, are originally Console games, as the 
 gameplay fit better with a well deserved controller. 
  
  However, I was surprise to discover the effort made to port this game. DMC 3 was a sort of disappointment 
 for PC, and Resident evil 4 was nothing compared to its console twins... 
  
  If it is as good as PS3 and XBOX 360, why would it deserve more than 8.0 as gamespot gave to it? 
 well, The efforts made in this port are more important than all other games done before by capcom. 
 Thus, there are still some problems. Of course, playing with a keyboard may be less interesting, 
 but you may be surprise by the ability you can gain. After a little practice, you should be able 
 to own this game hard! For the ones who have a controller, just use it, you don't need the last 
 one out there, a simple one may do the thing... Except that you may loose some buttons while 
 
  
  Another interesting point is the relative low computer specs asked, P4 XP 512 mb ram (xP) or 1 
 gig (vista) and a 256 mb video card is not the most expensive. Of course, you won't play at the 
 highest configuration, but HEY! You're playing DMC 4 on PC anyway, and don't have to buy a PS3 
 or XBOX 360. Isn't it interesting for everybody who don't have, don't want or can't have a console? 
 
  
  Finally, New adds to the game, intriguing story, fast paced action and, of course, DANTE! make 
 this PC version very attractive. 
  
  It may not be the most difficult game, neither the longest, but it's still a great game. 
  
 
  10/10 for the effort
  
  I recommend it for everybody who want to have fun or need to play DMC 4... if there are any hesitations, 
 go try the demo! 
  
  PS: this game is compatible DX9 and DX10!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: polarnimeda
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  The game keeps the charm that Devil May Cry 3 had, and adds even more... Even better moves and 
 combos that seems to link up even sweeter, even better voice acting, even cooler and longer between-level 
 scenes... Fantastic graphics and awesome level and characters design!! Camera acts naturally... 
 Difficulty is really just right! Animation is superb- it just makes you believe that everything 
 you see is really possible! And the story is great... Simply- this game has it all! And its port 
 from console to PC is as good as you could only want it to be! Optimization (along stability, of 
 course) is AMAZING! Possibly one of top 10 EVER! And re-playability for this one isn't an option- 
 it's like part of the game that you don't wanna miss! I just can't seem to find any bad sides... 
 So, I'll give it a 10... And return to playing it! :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isara14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time enough for me to wait for this version of DMC to come out on PC as I couldn't 
 afford to buy a PS3. I'm a huge fan of DMC series and I loved playing the previous three versions. 
 
  Now when I heard that the game just came out, I rushed out the following day to go and get this 
 game, and I was glad I did - the game doesn't let me down.
  First of all, the graphics look great (not sure if better than the console version or not) and 
 all the available customizations that you can do to suit the power of your CPU and GPU are very 
 useful and easy to use.
  The sound is just as expected from a DMC game - the fast, rock soundtracks always do a good job 
 of enhancing the fun and excitement of this game especially when fighting all the demons with all 
 the cool combos that Nero can initiate using his Red Queen, Devil Bringer, and the gun (forgot 
 what it's called lol) . 
  The flow of the game can never be stopped as you beat all the monsters on your way to the destination 
 of each mission, but sometimes you could get stuck in puzzles like I did which don't take so long 
 to solve and are somewhat quite entertaining.
  The story line is quite clear and well-described through all the characters during cut scenes, 
 which are made very nicely.
  If you're reading my review to decide whether to get this game or not, trust me - you should go 
 buy it right now! You won't be disappointed as DMC games can never let you down (well at least 
 it never lets me down lol) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniksdi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  awesome cut scenes . . razor sharp graphics . . vibrant colors . . flashy moves . . slashing combos 
 . . mind blowing bosses . . convincing story and smooth controls are few of the terms that explain 
 the greatly improved Devil May Cry 4 . . it is not as tough as before . . but a whole lot of fun
 
  
  I am using my XFX gamepad for the first time to it's full use . . and I am very happy . . easily 
 ignoring the weird rapid movements of the character, the game looks almost real . . the graphics 
 . . cant say enough for the graphics . . cause it's crystal clear and sharp, just the way I'd want 
 every game to be . . characters look greatly, even the main girl with her weird dress seems to 
 blend in quite acceptably
  
  Story is good as always . . . added with some new characters and the cool demonic powers that can 
 be used all the time . . . . I am not an usual platform gamer . . but so far I am having a lot 
 of fun
  
  Bit compliments to the constant cut scenes and huge bosses that are easy, yet fun to take down 
 . . definitely the kinda game to show off to your friends ;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silpion21
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:06 am PT
Review:  Ok so and soon as I got the game I've starter to play it, controls and moves are the same, so if 
 you have played DMC 3 you'll feel in control. For those of you who haven't played, there is the 
 tutorial mode witch is very well made.
  
  Now for the first half of the game you play as Nero, a young kid who has the blood of Spata and 
 a devil arm, witch is awesome. Further in the game you can control Dante, he has a nice ability 
 to switch between his styles. Nero has only 4 let's call then weapons , his sword Red Queen, his 
 big ass gun Blue Rose, the devil arm and the Yamatoo ( Vergil's sword, the twin brother of Dante) 
 , now the moves and combos can be upgraded with some special points that you get after each level. 
 You can buy devil stars , orbs and so with red orbs. 
  
  The story is very well made and there are some nice twists in it, the levels are not hard at all, 
 most of the time you have to kill all the monsters in order to move on, but they added some puzzles 
 witch can be annoying. 
  
  The camera responds preatty well, only prob with it is when you play with Nero and use the devil 
 arm. 
  
  Now the boss fights are the most well done in all of the series, they look and feel great. Most 
 interesting and hard of the boss fights is the one between Nero and Dante.
  
  The graphics look good, in some levels the lights are too bright and some of the shadows look awful, 
 but in the end all look decent. 
  
  
  So if you are looking for a game with a story to tell and some nice fights this is the one !!! 
 This is a must have for all gamers. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: euselipar
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Behold the awesomeness of DMC4, the best in the series. Great graphic even for a low perfomance 
 pc. Better to play using gamepad and forget using keyboard. The gameplay is so entertaining and 
 you can make multiple combos through your journey. The weapon used in this game also very unique 
 and interesting. The story also quite nice. I've been playing this game for dmc1 to dmc3 and what 
 i can i say is this game rocks. This game is also addictive and awesome. I cant wait to return 
 home and continue playing this game. Need to finish it asap to unlock other feature in this game. Prepare 
 your hard disk with at least 15 gigs because the installer itself is around 8 gigs. Here is my 
 pc specs :
  Intel Core 2 Duo 2.2Ghz
  2GB Ram, Ati x1650 pro 
  
  Performance runing this game:
  High Setting : Super Lagging
  Medium : Still lagging
  Low 
 : Random lagging 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evangellium
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Since computer users usually have a lack of this kind of games, when such a beautiful and fast 
 paced game comes around, we feel that computer still have life beyond mmorpg. 
  These game is what I can call a master piece. Its beautiful, with the latest graphic resources. 
 This game shows the difference between DX9 and DX10. It has even more gorgeous graphics when using 
 DX10. You can see every single char with full detail like never saw in an action game for pc. And 
 it is just the beginning.
  The sound is something that you can give thanks about. You can hear every foe in the screen, and 
 feel the everything that is surround you. The music feels like it was supposed to be there even 
 before it born. Very well composed and it adjust more than perfect to the game. Every sounds....
 
  The difficult is something apart. The game starts too easy. You wont stop until get to the first 
 boss, and 2 minutes after you see it, you will pass it without even the least of trouble. You keep 
 playing and it keep getting hard. But not so hard like DMC3. One of the two flaws in this game 
 is this point. Too easy.
  The other flaw is that you have to beat the boss so many times that it start to be tedious. All 
 the bosses are well designed and gorgeous on every aspect. When you see it moving, you feel the 
 grace in every step.
  The story is a little more deep than in the previously games, and it is a good part, since dmc3 
 doesnt explain almost nothing what happens int he game that isnt the principal plot.
  Oh, and prepare yourself to buy a joystick, if you dont have one yet.
  The basic of the game 
 is this. Like said before, it shows that the pc can be used to play more than just mmorpg. The 
 only problem is the requirements of the game. For ATI users, I feel sorry to tell you that you 
 will feel stolen. Graphic cards like ATI HD 2600 that is more than it requires have the rank D, 
 and GeForce 8600 Gs, that is a little lower in performance in other games, in this the difference 
 is enormous.
  Basically this is all I have to tell you about this game. This is a awesome game and I recommend 
 it to everybody who have a nice computer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devius2k4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  Obviously the best of the series. With PC's goodies - 8x AA, high rez, 16x AF, so on so forth you 
 would expect this game to lag at least a little. This game holds wonderfully nice steady frame 
 rate, smooth gameplay, and gorgeous ported graphics. What's not to love? Sure, you'll need to spend 
 a bit extra on a 360 controller (you should have one anyway, imo) . The controls always seem on 
 par, making it a blast to play through on hard. Nearly everything I have come across is very well 
 done. Sound, gameplay, story, controls, added content, and looks are all as well done as I could 
 ask for. The only flaws, are the the bit shaky world destruction, oddly and repeatedly placed elements 
 and monsters, and no hope at all of playing this with your keyboard. Added content should make 
 up for most of those flaws. With that aside, it tops its counterparts in every way. Devil May Cry 
 fans like myself will adore this one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
