-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/devilmaycry3specialedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Responsive, fluid, well-designed combat system makes for great action.
 Two different playable characters, one of which is unlockable.
 Budget price.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Visuals look rough and aren't optimized well for the PC.
 You absolutely need a gamepad, and the game doesn't autodetect them perfectly.
 Limited save system plus numerous other awkward holdovers from the consoles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.1, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,625 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Capcom
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 16, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it's like a fish out of water on the PC, this straight port of a great, gruelingly fast and 
 intense PlayStation 2 action adventure game can still be exciting. 

  Released earlier this year for the PlayStation 2, Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening - Special 
 Edition was a budget-priced, updated version of one of last year's toughest, best, most intense 
 action adventure games on consoles. Between its manic hack-and-slash gameplay and its over-the-top 
 anime-inspired presentation, the game never seemed like it would make a good fit on the PC. But 
 a PC version came along anyway, offering up a no-frills port that loses some of its charm and quality 
 in translation, yet retains some solid action and a lot of personality underneath it all. So the 
 underlying game is still great, but unless you categorically can't play this game on a PS2 yet 
 feel compelled to play it anyway, this version isn't your best bet.  

          Devil May Cry 3's fast, flashy style and elaborate combo system epitomize the difference 
 between action games on consoles versus PC. So what's this game doing on the PC?     

  This update rebalances the original game's notoriously hard difficulty setting while adding a new 
 playable character (as an unlockable bonus) and some new battles. What made Devil May Cry 3 such 
 a great game in the first place was its flashy presentation and its fantastic combat. As the brash 
 demon hunter Dante, you can kick all kinds of otherworldly ass top to bottom, courtesy of your 
 various over-the-top firearms and melee weapons. Split-second timing is necessary to avoid your 
 enemies' ferocious counterattacks, and learning to dodge properly and to not get blindsided by 
 an occasionally awkward camera angle definitely takes time. But eventually, everything feels just 
 right, and suddenly you're making mincemeat out of tons of foes -- pulling off spectacular combos 
 involving multiple weapons, thrashing foes up into the air, high in the sky, and down to the ground, 
 and then finishing them off while they're lying helpless at your feet. It gets all the more intense 
 when you're battling the game's numerous boss opponents, which are arguably the highlight of the 
 experience. Occasional puzzle-solving and backtracking offer a brief respite from the carnage, 
 but otherwise they aren't particularly exciting aspects of play. A few basic role-playing elements 
 are effectively integrated, allowing you to choose between some different fighting styles and learn 
 upgraded moves and abilities for those styles the more you use them.  

  One of the distinguishing features of the PlayStation 2 original is how fast it moves. The smooth 
 frame rate wasn't just for show, because many of the game's demonic foes strike quickly and hit 
 hard, so you needed fast reflexes to get out of the way before they skewered you. On the PC, the 
 visuals don't hold up as well, even if you have a very fast system and run the game at a relatively 
 low resolution. Some of the cinematic cutscenes also look pretty bad here, thanks to grainy-looking 
 video playback. It's not immediately clear why this version doesn't move as well as its PS2 counterpart, 
 considering that these simple, somewhat drab 3D graphics look pretty unflattering by the PC's high 
 standards. At least there's some great visual design on display to make up for the dated presentation, 
 and the motion-captured cutscenes that make up Devil May Cry 3's ridiculous but engaging story 
 are still excellent.  

          This is the game's first real boss monster, and many, many more follow. Scared yet?    

  On top of the graphical deficiencies, the PC version of this game is virtually unplayable using 
 the default keyboard controls. For whatever reason, no attempt was made to come up with a mouse-and-keyboard 
 control scheme, which might have been serviceable. So you'll need a decent gamepad to get anywhere, 
 like the Microsoft Xbox 360 controller we used for most of our testing; unfortunately the game 
 forced us to use the right analog stick, not the left analog stick, for moving around, causing 
 us to cramp up on the controller. Using a Logitech gamepad, we could at least move around using 
 the D pad, while the left analog stick defaulted to switching between different option screens. 
 The game lets you remap the button functions on your gamepad, but not the sticks. Other than these 
 types of issues, the game is essentially identical to the PS2 version. This means that if you can 
 find a comfortable control scheme and visual settings that get the game to run smoothly on your 
 rig, you'll find in Devil May Cry 3 a blazingly fast and intense experience that's very much unlike 
 other action games for the PC.  

  This isn't natively a PC game, so don't expect PC-style amenities, such as being able to save your 
 progress at any time. In fact, in the original version of the game, you needed to purchase yellow 
 orbs to continue from a nearby checkpoint when you died. These orbs were prohibitively expensive 
 in the beginning, and the system itself was fairly confusing anyway, so there was a very steep 
 learning curve that revolved around forcing you to replay entire levels only to get beaten over 
 and over again by tough boss monsters waiting for you at the end. The Special Edition's optional 
 new continue system is far more lenient, since it lets you continue from a nearby checkpoint as 
 often as you wish, and if you have a gold orb in your inventory, you can bring yourself back to 
 life right where you died. Having two (or more) lives with which to beat the game's bosses makes 
 all the difference in the world, and it goes a long way toward making the legendary difficulty 
 level of Devil May Cry 3 a lot less remarkable, for better or for worse. You've still got the old 
 continue system to use if you want it, but most players will naturally take the path of least resistance. 
 Ironically, even this much more lenient continue system will still likely seem inconvenient to 
 those accustomed to PC games letting you save anytime, anywhere.  

  You can't play as Dante's brother Vergil right off the bat, but you'll learn to respect him as 
 you play through the game for the first time. He has deadly fencing skills and lightning-fast moves, 
 and you'll find that all of his attacks are at your disposal when you play as him. His quick-draw 
 attacks with his Japanese battle sword can devastate multiple enemies at once, and instead of guns, 
 he can summon limitless mystical swords that fly out and pierce his foes. Later, he can upgrade 
 these weapons to form defensive barriers and more. In fact, he's considerably stronger than Dante, 
 at least at first. He has access to three useful melee weapons right from the start, and he also 
 starts out with the devil trigger ability, which grants him temporary invincibility and health 
 regeneration -- truly a lifesaving skill that Dante doesn't learn until a good way into the story. 
 But is stronger really better in this case? Vergil just isn't as fleshed out as Dante from a gameplay 
 standpoint. He starts with all his weapons and has only the one "dark slayer" fighting style, which 
 is like Dante's trickster style, only cooler sounding. You can still unlock some new fighting abilities 
 as you go, but you don't feel as though you're growing stronger and stronger like you do with Dante. 
 What's more, there's no story continuity when playing from Vergil's perspective. His inclusion 
 in the game makes for a good bonus, but Dante is still the star of the show.  

          Though inferior to the PS2 original in a straight comparison, this PC version still has 
 merit and no shortage of challenging action.     

  There are a few other added extras. The Bloody Palace is a pretty good bonus that's functionally 
 equivalent to a survival mode. This mode strips away all semblance of plot -- instead focusing purely 
 on DMC3's exciting combat system -- as it throws you into one battle after another. The Bloody Palace 
 consists of 9,999 levels, but after each fight, you can choose to advance by one, 10, or 100 levels 
 by entering one of three elemental portals. Health power-ups can keep you alive over the long haul, 
 but occasional run-ins with DMC3's bosses might just end your Bloody Palace run prematurely. You 
 can't save your progress in this mode, and it pits you against lots of familiar foes, so it's mostly 
 best suited for hardcore players looking to hone their skills and squeeze as much out of the game 
 as they can. For good measure, you also have the option to enable a "turbo mode," which speeds 
 up the gameplay by 20 percent -- enough to make the action maybe a little more manic than usual, 
 though it might hurt your frame rate even more. You can also watch the game's fantastically choreographed 
 cinematic cutscenes in a theater mode, as well as unlock gallery images and multiple costumes for 
 both characters.  

  It's plainly apparent from playing this game that it wasn't originally designed with the PC platform 
 in mind, but that doesn't make it bad. This version of Devil May Cry 3 doesn't play quite as well 
 as the original, yet it still offers an intense and challenging experience so long as you're open 
 to a stiff challenge, have a gamepad, and are willing to put up with a bunch of holdovers from 
 this game's console roots.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (74 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:32 am PT
Review:  After playing DMC 4, i considered it as one of the best action games. Though many of my friends 
 who played DMC 3 and then 4 disagreed with me.
  
  So, I thought to find out what the fuss was all about. And so i have finished playing DMC 3 and 
 at the end of the day or timeline (whatever you call it) , i have to agree with them that DMC 3  
  DMC 4 in almost all aspects.
  
  You have more weapons. Rebellion and Agni & Rudra just rock. The laser gun (i never remember what 
 its called) and The Lady's Rocket are just too good.
  
  The story is Excellent. You have an equally powerful character apart from Dante. Which is no surprising 
 as that character is Dante's brother Vergil. I would say Vergil has an edge over Dante because 
 of his Lethal Katana type Sword.
  
  The Lady is the daughter of one more character named Arkham who assists Vergil in releasing demons 
 like him and dante from the outer world.
  
  The goal of Dante is to stop that. The ending is EPIC.
  
  The Graphics for that time was very 
 good. But still not too impressive. I can name games like Sands Of Time, Warrior Within which came 
 earlier but have superior Graphics.
  
  The Puzzles in this game are again tedious to perform. Unlike the Prince Of Persia and God Of War 
 games, DMC just fails to be right up there in the Puzzles point of view. But the other aspects 
 like Combat its right up there....... sometimes even exceeds that level.
  
  The Difficulty of DMC 3 is way more tougher than DMC 4. There is an easy mode which you can unlock 
 only by completing the Normal Mode, which itself is a Hard Mode. The difficulty could have been 
 made a little easier. I hear PS2 fans complaining about the easy difficulty of the special edition....... I 
 think its better left to imagination about the Difficulty of the original Devil May Cry 3.
  
  Oh! BTW! Special Edition lets you unlock cool special Costumes, play as Vergil which is fun.
 
  
  Overall, DMC 3 is one of those Classics which is difficult to forget. Quite easily one of the best 
 PS2 classics and one of the Best Action Adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  well what can I say... from the gameplay to Dante's comments and to the fun and great moves that 
 u can make and see in the cg movies, dmc 3 is a great game for the gamers that like the game type, 
 a game that can easily leave u without your keyboard if u are to hasty or if u get angry quickly.
 
  it a great story, thow I would have liked to play dmc 1 and 2, but as I don't have and don't enjoy 
 console games, not for the fact that I hate the games, but I hate the gamepad, I resumed my self 
 to dmc 3 special edition and to dmc 4 (in playing) .
  I could say that the graphics could have been a little better, considering the year it has appeared, 
 but never the less if u can get past it, I'm sure u'll get a kick out of this game, so all u gamers 
 out there know this (for those that didn't finished the game) "DEVIL MAY CRY!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  as usual, 20 levels.
  
  and this is the hardest game in the series especially. it has some confusing puzzles and background 
 things you would never notice unless someone told it to you! 
  
  the bosses are amazingly fun to fight, and DMC3: special edition- features another chracter other 
 than dante - vergil! he can kill demons, just by rapidly using his ranged attack of little summoned 
 swords, and also can weild his katana: yamato, or can dual weild it with the sword of sparda. or 
 he can just kill the demons with his magical fists, beowulf. no, not the movie.
  
  dante has some tricks as well, and a wide arsenal of arms and styles. 5 guns, 6 styles, and 5 devil 
 arms.
  
  Rebellion, the sword was dante's main in every DMC game i believe, so its pretty basic with some 
 WILD combo's
  
  cerebus - its name, three headed dog, (the boss you kill to get it =) ) without the dog. its a 
 triple nunchuck that can really come in handy, it has power over the ice! and its stylish, just 
 like the cutscenes.
  
  the two talking swords whom i dont remember the name of - obtain these fun, dual weilding swords 
 from a very tough boss fights, the two swords have elemental properties and come in handy, a LOT.
 
  
  Nevan - the oddest weapon in the game, a ranged sword that isnt a sword at all, its a guitar/scythe. 
 its slow attacking in melee, and in guitar, it will make some nice electrick guitar sound effects, 
 so you can basically play guitar hero in a hack'n slash! also, in devil trigger mode, this guitar 
 will allow you to fly and throw lightning bolts... how godly =)
  
  Beowulf - Vergil's gauntlets and greaves that can pack a punch, and a kick. you can rip things 
 apart with your bear hands! fun to use.
  
  GUNS
  
  Ebony and Ivory - dante's dual pistols that are useful for adding some extra damage from long range. 
 weak, but useful.
  
  Shotgun - a small gun that is better used at close range, you will know this if you have any common 
 sense, or play first person shooters.
  
  Artemis - a laser cannon that will attach to your arm nicely. and it is like the shotgun, but is 
 better for long range.
  
  Spiral - a sniper rifle that doesnt get the job done, to even use it, you will need to be using 
 gunslinger style, its really not fun at all.
  
  Lady's rocket launcher - same as the spiral, it doesnt even fire rockets.........
  
  
  Styles
 
  
  Dark Slayer - vergil's one and only style, once you unlock him, isnt 4 dante
  
  
  Trickster - dante's default style, enables very evasive movements
  
  Swordmaster - you can 
 use this one in tune with your swords, for some nice combos.
  
  Royal gaurd - with this style you can block attacks and punch people without beowulf 
  
  Gunslinger 
 - use this one in tune with your guns, needed for kalena ann (rocket launcher) and spiral rifle
 
  
  Quicksilver - a mode were you can manipulate time, very usefull against some bosses, inverts all 
 the colors
  
  Doppleganger - in this mode, you make a clone of yourself that will copy all your movements, not 
 all that great to use.
  
  
  the story is quite epic, and you will LOVE this game if you're looking for a challenge, this has 
 numerous bugs, so ignore those, and have fun!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dibyajyoti_mond
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  "DEVASTATINGLY INSANE - that's for action" | D
  | 
  "MIND BLOWING - that's for moves" | M
  |
  "CRAZY - that's for combos" | C
  |
  3 times stated 
 | 3
  
  (couldn't help with the style, but that's a tribute to the game)
  Although I haven't played the previous DMCs and although I am playing it in the PC those are no 
 hindrance to rate this as one of the finest action games in recent times if not the best. 
  Difficulty is hard no doubt but that only urges you to go for the next try even harder with more 
 rage. Bosses are big but Dante is mean and that comes with a lot of style and attitude. Even Virgil's 
 chilled cruelty comes with awesome style. Graphics are totally cool and that sizzling hot. Sound 
 fx, voice acting and background music is just perfect. 
  Only letdown in PC are the controls esp. the confirm and escape/back buttons, but after playing 
 through the first two levels one should figure everything out.
  I won't say anything much. But if someone finds that this game is not about is not style then I 
 am an idiot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelkadaj
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  DMC3  the first DMC game for pc. Also the beginning of Dante's story, so you won't need the previous 
 DMC games to understand this game. The story is great for we are fighting Dante's evil twin brother, 
 Vergil (that is insanely cute) .
  The character we play with, Dante, has a great attitude (for me  ) . To "level" him up you'll 
 need to level up his style, and to upgrade his weapons. The game has 20 missions and (not sure 
 how many) secret missions. You'll have to fight a boss in almost every one of your main missions.
 
  The bosses are easy to beat if you know how. Agni & Rudra are one of the hard ones. You'll fight 
 them at the end of mission 5. I kept dying at this fight until I figured out (two days later) that 
 I need to bring their energy down before I kill one of them, and than kill the other one as fast 
 as I can before he takes the other sword and knock me down. Nevan also caused me trouble with her 
 hug/kiss when her energy is down. The other bosses aren't that hard, at least not for me. And to 
 make game easier you must get the blue orb fragments (after finishing the secret missions) to increase 
 your energy bar.
  Through the missions you'll find weapons. For the guns, hmmm, the best part is that they have unlimited 
 ammo, which makes the game 50% easier to beat. But I'd say for you to stick with the Rebellion. 
 For me it was the best weapon  if you learn the moves. I'd like to mention the music for it was 
 great, I just loved it.
  Here comes the bad part. If you don't have gamepad it will be harder for you to play, although 
 not impossible. You'll need time to get used to the keyboard. Don't worry you will still be able 
 to perform the moves. I'd also like to add that the graphics aren't so bad, but could have been 
 better. 
  This is a must play game. No matter what people say, at least try it. You won't regret.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: restocker
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry has been a huge hit (as well as success) for Capcom as soon as it hit the shelfs. 
 The first in the series set the standard for many action adventure games with its great combat 
 system. DMC attracted many fans to the hack and slash genre and the wait was soon on for the second 
 in the series... but, when the time came, it left many fans disappointed. With a lamer-less-fun 
 Dante many fans felt that Capcom had let them down, and many thought that the series would be a 
 bust.
  
  Then came the day that DMC 3 was released. Many were very skeptic when the game first came out, 
 but once they played, they knew Capcom got it right. DMC 3 is definitely the best in the series 
 (arguably better than DMC 4, story wise and perhaps gameplay wise)
  
  DMC 3 is the first in the story line thus far (before DMC) , with a young, badmouthing Dante, with 
 a larger than life attitude. Dante's twin brother, Vergil, is attempting to open the gate to the 
 demon world. This gate was closed off by Dante's and Vergil's father, Sparda. So Dante being the 
 brave young man, decides that someone has to stop Vergil and off he goes :D (Wouldn't want to spoil 
 too much of it for ya :p)
  
  As for gameplay, DMC 3 special edition has a few additions to the original DMC 3. You get two new 
 fighting styles: Quicksilver (allows you to slow down time, at the price of your DT orbs) and Doppleganger 
 (creates a second image of yourself, which is controllable with a second controller. This also 
 drains your DT orbs) You are still able to change weapons in mid combo making DMC 3 one of the 
 most versatile action adventure games ever made. The controls are extremely responsive, although 
 are rather difficult to get a hold of on the PS2 (PC is much easier) ... The learning curve is not 
 too difficult, the only problem is there is no training area, so you are going to have to practice 
 while you actually play the game.
  
  The original DMC 3 was known for its brutal difficulty level amongst fans and gamers around the 
 world (the Japanese Hard mode was the North American Normal mode) . DMC 3 SE has taken the difficulty 
 level down a notch. Does this make the game better? Not necessarily. Its about time we have had 
 hard games... consoles such as SNES, Sega, even the NES where home to some of the most difficult 
 games ever created. Some games were just difficult because the game had too much to offer, but 
 the controls or gameplay could not keep up with the game itself. But there is no excuse for DMC 
 3; you are given a large array of weapons and techniques. It took me a few tries before I got a 
 hang of the game, but after I did, it was a much easier. Using a Stinger, followed up with a slash 
 up and aerial rave definitely taught those Hell Sloths a thing or two :p 
  
  Well DMC 3 SE does have one giant upper hand over the original DMC 3. You can play the game as 
 Vergil (Dante's twin bro) Unlike Mario and Luigi, Dante and Vergil are two completely different 
 characters. They play extremely differently, Vergil has a lot more power and his moves are slightly 
 slower to execute, while Dante is faster, more slicker, but his attacks are slightly weaker (for 
 the most part) .
  
  DMC 3 SE also features Jester as a boss in certain areas of the game, but its not something significantly 
 different.
  
  So when putting it all together, DMC 3 and DMC 3 SE are quite different in some ways. 
  
  THE 
 GOOD (Comparing DMC 3 and DMC 3 SE) : 
  
  - Being able to play as Vergil gives the game a lot more replay value.
  - Vergil himself, is 
 very unique, and plays very differently than Dante
  - You get two extra fighting styles (Quicksilver and Doppleganger) , which are really unique and 
 fun to use.
  
  THE BAD:
  -Vergil has little to no story, you just play through the levels without any story at all (except 
 for the first mission)
  
  THE MAYBE GOOD MAYBE BAD:
  
  - The difficulty is a lot easier (and when you die enough times you unlock easy mode, which is 
 extremely easy X_x its like they skipped a beat and went from Normal to Super Duper Easy) 
  - DMC 3 was well known for its disgustingly insane difficulty (although for fans of the series, 
 like me, it wasnt too hard) and it didnt feel as satisfying beating the game on Normal
  - However, you are able to play the game on Hard Mode in DMC 3 SE once you unlock it, you start 
 a completely new game, and start straight away on Hard Mode (for those who want the challenge) 
 But you are forced to play Normal Mode first
  
  So when it comes down to the question, "Should I get the game?" my answer is, "Get it if your a 
 die hard fan of the series." and "If you dont have DMC 3 the original, but arent the greatest at 
 games and would like to keep the hair on your head, get DMC 3 SE, you wont be disappointed."
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chirodip_08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  At first, when you get to play as Dante, you think the shopkepper was joking with you. But as you 
 play on, the game just keeps getting better and better.
  
  My advise is: Dont get frustrated, keep playing and you'll find a way out. Enjoy the game, its a good 
 one.
  Dante possesses some of the coolest combos you'll find in a Fantasy Action Adv. What you have to 
 do is find the best combo at the right time. There are plenty of zombies to beat up, so you know 
 you'll get the right the right opportunity soon............. very soon.
  After you finish the game, you'll unlock Vergil. Try him out and let me know how you liked him. Oh 
 you'll like him.
  The boss fights are sometimes long and frustrating, but they are enjoyable non-the-less.
  The 
 graphics does'nt suite the PC, but are not that dissappointing also.
  The gameplay is solid, and take a lot of time to discover completely.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gashoe13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  The devil may cry series has been totally ownage. It has had great graphics, awesome stories, brill 
 characters, and smooth action. Apart from DMC2. Sadly, the game Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition 
 on PC isn't as awesome as it could've been. Why? That's because of... well, several reasons.
  Graphics: Ouch. That's the problem. Gamespot says the game is similar to Prince of Persia: Warrior 
 Within and Two Thrones. Yet, this game's graphics aren't as good as either. Close up, Arkham's 
 cheek wound is moving nauseaously, while his fingers look slightly blocky. The graphics good. I 
 mean, look at stuff like Prince of Persia: Sands of Time! Even that was better!
  6/10
  Combat: Wow. The first game featured some eye-popping fighting, and it holds up nicely here. But, 
 you need a gamepad. The usual controls are so-so, but not too nice. The whole game relies on your 
 control prowess. If you're not good with the controls, you'll die. After configuring the control 
 to fit it to your tastes witha keyboard, you'll soon be smashing guys with your huge sword, your 
 twin blades (agni and rudra) , your greaves and gauntlets, your guitar, and a lot of other stuff. 
 If you enjoy smashing guys with speed, style, awesomeness, and big weapons, you will love this 
 game.
  8/10 (10/10 with gamepad)
  Gamepad detection: Bad. I had big problems with this one. I used a Nazar gamepad, which looks just 
 like the PS2 controller. And, it told me to use the Right analog stick to move. Worse, tilting 
 the right analog stick right makes you go left, and vice versa. SUCK.
  2/10
  Story: Typical story. Presented nicely.
  7/10
  Difficulty: HARD. Let's face it peeps, this 
 game is hard. Anyone who says it's easy is making a fool of himself. Try beating Cerberus in Dante 
 must Die mode. Yeah. But, playing as Vergil kicks ass. The problem with it is, the long range weapon 
 for Vergil kinda sucks. However, overall, it's great.
  10/10
  Boss battles: AWESOME! If "awesome" means "super insanely hard", well then yes, the bosses are 
 pretty awesome. But, beating Gigapede is a piece of cake. But, fighting Vergil in the end is practically 
 impossible.
  10/10
  Characters: Funny, Realistic. Good enough for me.
  7.5/10
  Creativity: Great. The characters are quite creative, with some nice enemies. Those enemies that 
 try to get you with arrows that have a single eye look just like Gahma from Legend of Zelda: Ocarina 
 of Time. And the moves that Dante can do...
  9/10
  Overall: This is a really sweet game. But, Ubisoft didn't try hard enough here. The graphics weren't 
 too good, the gamepad detection was bad, so... yeah. Oh well. Can't have everything! Oh, and... 
 this game is a mirror image of the previous games. And there aren't any real changes in gameplay. 
 So, you have a game that you practically have played before. Still... AWESOME GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redcloudzero
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  You might think this game is just another game as before. WRONG! this is the specail edition of 
 devil may cry 3. It has the original story then the story behind is twin brother Vergils eyes. 
 Also a new boss called... Joker! Yes you finallyget to shut the mouth on that clown. simply put... One 
 of the best video games in video games history. You will be playing it 5 years from now and things 
 will still surprise you. You will always find stuff that you haven't done or didn't want to do 
 at that moment that you would want to do then. The visuals aren't the best but the cutscenes will 
 just make your mouth drop and say "How does he do that?" The story is one that will in fluence 
 a lot of people for time to come. I take little pieces of it and put it into some of my short stories 
 from time to time. Also it sparks other people to build games cause they start to get ideas and 
 what different stuff they can put into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a1max
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  finally, a dream come true.... A DMC game for the pc... and it is a budget game..
  i recommend this game.... 
  
  Gameplay
  the combat system is as fluid and responsive as usual.... 
 it is one of the greatest hack and slash games ever.... the combos u can do in this game are just 
 amazing... the weapons all feel different and u can mix and match to your own liking to do devastating 
 damage..... weapons ranging from guns to electric guitars... you can play this game your own way.... 
 the game has a very stylish presentation.... it is not as tough as the original devil may cry but 
 it is challenging.... the camera views have always been problem in these kinda games... but due 
 to the satisfying gameplay you wouldn't complain too much... aside from the numerous weapons... 
 there are also fighting styles which you can choose to your liking.... they are very different... 
 and when you level up new abilities are unlocked.... the story is fantastic.... Dante has a lot 
 of character and u will like him.... Vergil is exactly the opposite of Dante.... he's silent but 
 violent...
  as the story progresses you can really feel the hatred between the two Brothers... the fighting 
 is satisfying.... there are numerous ways to kill an enemy... you just wont feel as if you're doing 
 the same moves again and again... the puzzle solving isn't the most exciting part..... u can even 
 play as vergil..... They could have easily created another game just for vergil cause he is very 
 different from dante... the downside is that there's no seperate ending for vergil and you dont 
 fight dante at the end but a vergil clone... u wont be able to save wherever u want which is disappointing... 
 the bloody palace mode is absolutely fun...
  
  Graphics
  though this isn't as good as the PS2 version, it is still good.... at lower resolutions the game 
 feels a little old.... but characters are full of life... the cutscenes are very well made.....
 
  
  sound
  the music suits the game perfectly, the sound effects are top notch most of the time.... but it 
 can be irritating everytime dante cries out the name of the move you are doing.... the voice acting 
 is great and overall it is very good
  
  Overall 
  if you own a pc and want a DMC game.... this one's for you.. you need a joystick for optimum fun..... 
 Just go and buy this... the only reason i give this is eight because it is not as good as the PS2 
 version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean115
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  I really love the cover of that game, so i think that the game would be great but wen you actually 
 play it. EVERYTHING changes you'l see that the game not be so correct with the keyboard you'l see 
 just numbers but that's al for the gamepad but if you have that you'l LOVE this game but for the 
 others ,,,, just check in the options menu what the number is for that letter so you can do tricks 
 en go right with the game ;) but in the overall is the game great!! and the graphics, sound, camera 
 is good so buy it if you have a gamepad and the enemy's ,bosses aren't so difficult and the new 
 character is soooo lovely i kill everyone with him!! but there is no story with him but with dante 
 there is :D XD and with dante you get new weapons: D: DXDXDXDXDXDXD etc. but vergil have online 4 
 weapons  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  ok here it is in a jiffy. its one of the best button mashing, sword swinging gun slinging game 
 EVER (for now) . its not like Prince of persia of God Of War where the r a little bit of puzzles 
 for you to do. its just killing. it gets pretty boring with the fact that the few puzzles r just 
 basically... killing... u might have 2 destroy a box or two to get to teh puzzle btut.... thats 
 mostly it. there is also one level where the puzzle is IMPOSSIABLE to get unless u get someone 
 to walk you through it because it dosent tell you anything to do and you have to guess. visuals 
 are good (or its year) but could be better. fighting is good cause your always getting new powers 
 but gets repetive as the game goes along. excutaly it gets boring after a few minutes into a level 
 which is a problem. also easy is HARD and i mean HARD. i got suck on the 4th level for 5 days because 
 of the boss fight. also it is addictive. though if you get though the game and it felt good about 
 the game, then you have something wrong with you. not worth buying at all but could be a rent would 
 be good. though it did come out at a cheap price though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FearBoo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Love the game, have about 130 hours with Dante and 42 with Vergil and will not stop even after 
 Devil May Cry 4 will be out for the PC.
  The no stop action in games like this is something new to me , the only other game that I can remember 
 haveing this much action is Guilty Gear XX: Reloaded . Having so many moves and possibilities to 
 destroy its just over overwellming.
  I had doubts at the start but quickly begun to love it :)
  Similar with Prince of Persia and 
 God of War , cut and slash games :) but Devil May Cry 3 has more Gun Powder to it ;)
  The story is pretty good to but still not as good as Prince of Persia.
  The game play is pretty 
 solid even with the keyboard , it might be a port but I still really really really like it.
  
  
  And I'm playing it with the keyboard because I can do more damage with it than with the 
 game pad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition is a PC port of the game that was originally for the PS2 and had, 
 what is known to be one of the highest difficulty levels known (according to GS review) . Though 
 the game reaks of havoc in gameplay ( i mean its awesome) , the unoptimized textures in the PC make 
 the surroundings gloomy and dull. But this is surely made up for by the extra-awesome gameplay 
 and style which is what this series is known for.
  
  Now, a few things to be kept in mind before i start:
  1. I am using a normal keyboard and mouse (not 
 necessary for playing the game) to play the game. This, is a disadvantage and i would highly recommend 
 anyone to get a Logitech wireless gamepad for playing this particular game. It took me a lot of 
 time to get used to the combination of key, so this is just a suggestion.
  
  2. I am playing the game in normal difficulty, so the level of difficulty experienced by me is 
 due to the same.
  
  3. I am using an Nvidia graphics card and used the Nvidia settings manager to enhance some of the 
 application settings before playing the game which involves increasing AA level and increasing 
 the level of other graphics options and this also includes removing vsync (It helps to boost up 
 game speed & frame rates but alternately, turbo mode can be used but it makes the gameplay suffer) .
 
  
  4. Lastly, I have played only upto level 10 of the game till now which is exactly half of the levels 
 in the game.
  
  The game has 20 very rocking levels in which it boasts of mind boggling action and close combat 
 fighting.
  
  Our protaganist, Dante has been "invited" by his brother, Vergil for some serious monster-mashing 
 party, so that he (Vergil) can break the seal made by Sparda, their father that divides the human 
 realm from the demon realm. 
  
  The game starts out with us having just one devil arm, the rebellion and the guns (ebony and ivory) . 
 As we move on we fight some really tough monsters on the way to the top of the tower where we meet 
 for a fight with brother, Vergil. Also, some tough bosses get defeated to give Dante new Devil 
 arms. We also pick up more guns on the way to defeating Vergil. The game has an in-game devil shop 
 where you can exchange the red orbs you get while defeating monsters for upgrades to your weapons 
 and buying items to increase your health as well and also the gold orb which allows Re birth. There 
 are Blue orbs and Purple Orbs which allows Dante to increase his max health and max time for staying 
 in Devil Trigger state too. But the shop goes on increasing the price of each item as you go on 
 buying them, making it difficult for you to keep on buying the item (well, it just goes to show 
 you that storekeepers in the demon world are real devils) .
  
  Well, the game as I said has some awesome combination attacks and close up melees which make the 
 game more enjoyable. The game also features Dante having four styles: Trickster, Gunslinger, Swordmaster 
 and Royal Guard. Each of them have their pros and accumulating experience while using them allows 
 us to get a level up resulting in gaining new abilities of that particular style. Trickster style 
 comes in most handy during the boss fight with Vergil. The Gunslinger style, otherwise rules when 
 it comes to fighting with normal monsters. There is a Devil Trigger to transform Dante to the demon 
 state for a short period of time which allows you to gain speed, more strength and renewing health 
 too! But it only lasts for a few seconds but can be increased by buying purple orbs from the shop 
 in exhange for red orbs.
  
  The game, although has dreary textures and dull surroundings, the character graphics is quite good (with 
 some enhanced settings) . And the game progresses quite easily and is fairly simple but I will admit, 
 i needed the help of the GS GameGuide (thanks to GS!) to complete certain parts of the game but 
 the boss fight with Nevan went down more differently than how the GS Guide said coz she sure was 
 tough esecially coz she even threw out all of her so called desperation attacks in the PC version 
 of the game just after i was able to take 10% of her life down. However, the boss fights provide 
 the highest amount of fun and produce the most tired and exhausted hands (when using the keyboard, 
 at least) [lol] . There is a real glitch in the save system according to me coz the game never saves 
 your position in the game but rather saves your stats and abilities you possess. So, inspite of 
 having an anywhere save system, you might have to play a huge part of the game again to reach the 
 position you saved at.
  
  The cutscenes in most cases are worth waiting for coz they are really funny and add that attitude 
 factor into the game!
  
  The game all in all provides a lot of fun gameplay and is a really tough cookie to crack without 
 a gamepad. So, all you gamers who want some retro style, close combat action, then DMC3SE is all 
 yours for the taking.
  
  With DMC4 slated for release in February this year, hopefully the game developers at CAPCOM will 
 have made proper adjustments for us PC gamers, so that we can play the next version with ease.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Alpha_Omega_
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Hard to say this game!
  From first time I saw the DVD cover of this game, it's look great. Then I buy it.
  But when I 
 try it at home, it's very disappointing! The character too over-reacting. Will try to review this 
 game...
  
  Graphics - 
  Well, it's not too bad. This game have a great graphics! But I cannot feel any scary scene or horror 
 place that make me scared. And the bad guy it's looks funny! Not a little bit scaring me!!!
  
  Sound effect -
  WOW! This it bad... Bad sound effect and very bad character voice! Like I 
 said before, the character is too over-reacting!!! I don't know, but I feel like the main character 
 not scare of anything and what he said makes me feel boring!!!
  
  Control -
  The control of this game is usual. No difficulties and can't find anything new to let me more comfy...
 
  
  Overall,
  This game is BORING and DISAPPOINTING...!!!
  If you planning to buy this game, I will not recommend you! Try to borrow it from your friends 
 first and try it first... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylestater
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Possibly one of the PS2's most exciting breath of frest air since the first Devil May Cry has made 
 it's arrival onto the PC. Of course, since the production updates and news to the public were cut 
 way short than the norm. one must be skeptic to assume that it's gonna be a crappy port.
  
  For some that's bad news, for others like me and possibly you, nothing changes. We purchase, we 
 install, and behold the gamepad support isn't as sophisticated as you may or may not have thought. 
 Don't panic, like many others who throw in the towel way, WAY too early and start bad mouthin' 
 the game developers through use of email and Forum posting. 
  But instead do what should be done. There are many great programs for gamepads that will help eliminate 
 button layout problems.
  
  Look for Xpadder or Control MK on the web, they will help you in making the game more playable. 
 Now that Vista is out and many have converted, including myself, it would seem that this procedure 
 may or may not work (differs from user to user) .
  
  But back in the XP days ( The OS I originally played it on) I ran and played the game perfectly. 
 Unfortunately I can't seem to get it all the way "perfect" on a computer running Vista. Nevertheless, 
 I still think you should give it a try and tinker with the gamepad (Xpadder, ControlMK) . 
  
  DMC3 is a prequel to the legendary first installment, "Devil May Cry", you play as Dante, son 
 of Sparda and here Dante's just opening up his new shop, still unamed, a strange man walks in and 
 gives Dante an invitation from his twin brother, Virgil. Battle it out downtown and in dark gothic 
 castle settings.
  
  A weapon selection is available. Allowing the player to use a maximum of 4 weapons in-game. Quikly 
 switch between your melee weapons and your guns using the 2 seperate buttons that allows you to 
 switch between 2 of your Melee weapons and 2 of your guns on the fly! This may not sound like a 
 breakthrough gameplay mechanic, but when in battle, and you've started pulling off mad combo's 
 with your Sword, quickly tap the melee switch button and start ripping your foe's apart with your 
 newly equipped nanchukus. 
  
  This results in sporatic fighting that spreads Dante all over the place. Just with that feature 
 you can hold up combo's that are almost as visually satisfying as they are mentally. 
  
  DMC3 shined light on the possibility of simplicity. Which some games try to do, and others half-ass 
 it. But to me that's why its standing the test of time. No crazy changes, no excessive voice acting, 
 and a combat system that for the first time in over 5 years, has actually forced us to practice 
 each combo and technique before going further in the game.
  
  Another reason DMC3 is so great, is simply the replay value. Surely if they made a game that slapped 
 Mega Man, Double Dragon, Ninja Gaiden, and Prince of Persia all in one, you'd want to play it again 
 sooner or later, right?
  Well DMC3 not only allows you to, but adds Chapter select, and new unlockable can be achieved for 
 use of different costumes.
  
  The game's got a selection of Fighting Styles to choose from. The most popular is called, "Trickster", 
 and this style allows you to run up and down walls, dash, and eventually teleport so you can dissappear 
 and reappear next to your locked-on target. There's a bunch of others styles but I'm not gonna 
 detail them so I'll leave that for your curiosity. 
  
  Each style you choose has a 3 step leveling up system that enables the players to get experience 
 points through means of battle and blood. When you level up, a couple of new skills will be added. 
 Same goes with weapons, leveling up with guns and melee weapons consist of paying a price of red 
 soul gems. 
  
  Upgrading your guns will simply make them more powerful. Upgrading your melee weapons allows you 
 to add on a new fighting move or combo. This feature helps make the game more interesting and not 
 just a slash and hack.
  
  Since Devil May Cry 4 is in the works, I can't help but think of the outlining thought of, Is 
 it gonna hold up against the 3rd one?" Chances are probably not. I think DMC3 was a game that surprised 
 us all. And can't be duplicated, but you never know, we'll find out for sure if DMC is a good game 
 series, if the 4th one blows, well then we'll know the 3rd was a one hit wonder. For my other Capcom 
 fans... I'd start thinking about this for RESIDENT EVIL 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Shadoistic_
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I could not stop playing!
  It's very addictive. The best Fantasy Action Adventure!
  When I completed this game I played 
 it like about 300 times again and again.
  It may be not as good as the PS2 version but it still is the best for me.
  I can't wait for the 
 next game.
  Devil May Cry 4. It's gonna be the best damned game ever!
  Besides if you play this game I advise you first play Devil May Cry and Devil May Cry 2.
  You'll 
 better understand this game than. Because some of the stuff in this game is hard to understand 
 without knowing the start.
  I wonder if there will be a Devil May Cry 5.
  Only time will tell.
  Well if you're gonna buy this game then happy playing!
  Oh and it's best 
 to play this game with a joystick.
  I recommend Logitech. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  That's the game for everyone, really. At one point it's 3dPS Action and it looks easy and from another 
 it's just jump'n'run. I think that he game is very cool and very interesting for play, but it's hard, it's 
 reaaaaaaaaaally hard when you play it for first time. The whole combo system is simple, but the enemies, the 
 bosses the puzzles are very unique and very originally made. There're tons of enemies that just 
 cry to be crushed by the forces of our main character-Dante... He is very cool guy, he just rocks 
 the atmosphere. Well his brother is Virgil (or Virgin as I love to call him) is very boring person, but 
 his power is just enormous... You can play with him, but you need to beat the game once with Dante. The 
 weapons in the game are very cool, too. Every weapon has different combos and its special way to 
 kick butts. But the PC version has its weakness. You can't play with gamepad-actually you can, but 
 the movement controls are f**** pu (NOOOOOOOOO) . That was a great shock for me. I play almost every 
 game on my PC with gamepad. But that's the only bad thing I think. Everything else is just perfect 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cynxos
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Devil may cry 3 (DMC3) is one of the most familiar in the series...
  Maybe its because technically its the first one...
  Seeing Dante in his youth, jumping around 
 killing demons... is so fun, and hilarious.
  He does it in style, and is doing it in order to get style!
  Getting the new weapons is such 
 a fantastic thing, that you can't wait to see what you'll bash your opponents with next.
  The designs and models are supreme! And the voice acting is even more awesome.
  The possibility's 
 are numerous, but just not enough...
  The game has so much potential but just isn't using it all.
  The gameplay on the other hand, 
 is fun.
  You can use allot of combos to destroy your enemy's, you'll just want to meet more enemy's to see 
 them yourself.
  The story is so awesome, about how Dante and Virgil duked it out, over who is stronger, playing 
 their tween games, and beating the crap of the other demons that stand in their paths.
  Devil may cry 3, is a game that you'll want to get, play, worship and wait for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexLJ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This offered more than the normal release of DMC3. For the brave, there is a new very hard modes 
 which is just as challenging if not more than the Dante Must Die mode found in the previous installment 
 of DMC3. Playing as Vergil offered a few changes in the game play. He was a completely different 
 character, not just a repaint of Dante. Although playing through the game as Verigl would have 
 been more enjoyable if he had a separate story line rather than just playing through Dante's, this 
 minor downside was made up for for the sheer amount of extras; including secret outfits that are 
 more than just an incentive to become skilled at this game. If you were one who had been turned 
 away from the series because of the lackluster DMC2, this game should more than make up for the 
 mistake that had been made. Play this game at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  STORY  An ancient tower has been raised from the depths of the earth. Dante, a half demon, half 
 human soon finds out that the tower has been raised by Virgil, his twin brother. Dante who knows 
 his brother very well knows that he is up to something thats not in the well being of humans &amp; 
 so he sets of on a journey of revelation, sibling rivalry, reunion &amp; most of all awakening. 
 DMC 3s story has been told very well, it introduces characters that youll fall in love with, 
 its cutscenes have been choreographed very well &amp; Dantes attitude is just amazing, which shows 
 even in the gameplay.
  
  SOUND  Voice actings are just brilliantly portrayed, each voice actor has brought his character 
 to life. The game has a hardcore rock soundtrack which plays during your battles, which helps to 
 elevate your gaming experience.
  
  GRAPHICS  Character &amp; weapon modeling &amp; graphics are good although the environments could 
 have been better. Now DMC3 is a game which is ported from the PS2 to the PC, keeping this in mind, 
 Capcom could have worked on the graphic front to make it better since graphics on the PC can be 
 customized, which leaves you a bit disappointed.
  
  GAMEPLAY  The gameplay is just marvelous. Although DMC3 is a hack &amp; slash game it does not 
 get repetitive, all because of its brilliantly fast &amp; varied combat system. Apart from the 
 usual combos, at the beginning of each mission you get to choose from four different fighting styles, 
 Trickster, Gunslinger, Sword Master &amp; Royal Guard. Each style letting you perform a set of 
 different combos. You also get the choice of mixing your moves so the better you play the better 
 points you get at the end of each mission, which you can use to upgrade your weapons, fighting 
 style &amp; combos. To top it of throughout the game you get different weapons ranging from melee 
 weapons to guns. Each making its way to you through the story and then there is the famous Devil 
 Trigger, giving Dante to transform into his demon self. After you finish the game, you also get 
 to play the entire story as Virgil, plus an extra 9999 level survival mode is unlocked too. Now 
 the bad part of the game is that the default controls are very weirdly placed, but once you master 
 them, the game is a joyride.
  
  VERDICT  Devil May Cry 3 is a game that purely overshadows its flaws by its brilliance, attitude 
 &amp; story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikerider725
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, there are a few problems for example, the weapons when you upgrade them they 
 should cause more damage but it doesn't really do **** the shotgun is way to slow; finally some 
 of the levels take a long to finish so it's best to save orbs cause if you want to beat some bosses 
 in this game your going to need it. The best thing you can buy is the holy water it does a lot 
 of damage. This game is going to frustrate you, some levels will be hard as **** and some will 
 be too easy. It's not the best game in it series but, it's worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adityafunda
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  It's a game with large variety of melee and fire weapons with deadly combos. The combometer gives 
 you an idea how varied and deadly you are beating the demons coming your way. Though it makes things 
 difficult at times and it's very difficult to unlock everything the fair way. Another feature of 
 DMC is that one can change the style of play. This comes handy as there is a large variety of enemies 
 and bosses with different strengths and weaknesses. Overall there are 7 different styles of play 
 in the game (including vergil's) .
  It takes quite a time to be able to beat the hell out of demons easily, but every minute spent 
 playing it is worth.
  Graphic quality of pc version is not at level with it's ps2 buddy, but I still give it 10 for it's 
 superb gameplay, variations, idea,...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_bdk
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  The game has good graphics solid gameplay good music. The plot of the game is very good .There 
 are a lot of weapons at your disposal. Every weapons offer a lots of moves. The melee weapons offers 
 a lot of very good combos and executing them is very easy. The combat is very immersive. There is 
 some platforming in the game. The game offers some simple puzzles. BUT the gave is VERY VERY difficult 
 if you dont know how to execute the combos. You guys should get the game. AND each time you fnished 
 the game you will unlock new costumes and other things. So the game has some replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visor123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  I was excited when I heard that Devil May Cry 3 was going to come out for PC. I had played a little 
 of the PS2 version and was expecting to have a blast on the PC too. Un fortunately it turned out 
 to be a lazy port from Capcom.
  
  Looking at the graphics of DMC3 one would feel its requirements would be low. Something like a 
 32/64 MB video card perhaps. But no, you need a 128 MB video card with pixel shader 2.0. So there 
 you have it, high requirements and low quality graphics.
  
  DMC3's specialty is the gameplay. Fast paced action. Slash demons with swords, shoot them with 
 guns and rockets, perform cool stunts etc. The action in the game is its only saving grace for 
 this PC port. You would also need a gamepad to enjoy this game, or else your fingers would hurt 
 trying out combos that won't work properly on your keyboard.
  
  So if you have a good video card you can enjoy DMC 3. Also there is a frame limiter in this game 
 so you won't get anything above 30 FPS.
  
  If you are using onboard graphics like Intel, you can still run it using 3D Analyzer. But you will 
 get a low frame rate so it is recommended that you have a good video card.
  
  So the conclusion is, good game, great gameplay, lousy port. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  It's been almost two year&acute; s since Capcom unleashed Devil May Cry 3 in North America, but 
 its position as one of the system's best action titles still stands today. Unfortunately for it, 
 the game was released in a year that saw the fantastic Resident Evil 4 and the equally incredible 
 God of War dominate popular opinion -- and let's face it, between the two of them, the adventures 
 of Kratos and Leon collectively raised expectations. But that's why I'm hoping that players who 
 never gave Dante's Awakening a chance the first time will give Capcom's Special Edition re-release 
 a second look... if they do, I believe they'll find it to be an experience every bit as good as 
 2005's biggest and most popular award-winners.
  
  Now keep in mind, this examination is stringently focused on the new features that have been added 
 to Devil May Cry 3 in the ten months following its release. Having reviewed the original DMC3 last 
 year, I find it a bit repetitive to cover most of the game's aspects all over again. If you're 
 looking for an in-depth analysis of the gameplay system, the atmosphere, and how it all ties together, 
 then by all means head on over to the article posted last February. If you like your summations 
 quick and dirty, however, know this: Devil May Cry 3 is a fast, challenging, great-looking game 
 that kicks serious demon ass with multiple fighting styles, gun types, and pointy things. Sound 
 good? Good, read on!
  One of the better new additions to Devil May Cry 3 is the reinstitution of the Japanese save system. 
 In last year's version, you could only have as many checkpoints as you had Yellow Orbs (thus adding 
 another layer of difficulty to an already-difficult game) . The Japanese edition, on the other hand, 
 used a Ninja Gaiden-type save system where you had as many checkpoints as needed. The latter is 
 a much easier system to employ luckily, and when coupled with the readjusted difficulty setting 
 makes the game a lot easier for casual players -- smart move.
  
  If a whole extra character and the readjusted balancing isn't enough for you, Dante's Awakening 
 SE also adds a number of other cool little tweaks and features. The brand new Demo Digest, for 
 example, allows users to replay all the cutscenes they've unlocked throughout their adventure (be 
 they Dante's or Vergil's) , while the cool Bloody Palace mode allows masochists to throw themselves 
 into an almost ten thousand-level dungeon against a barrage of hungry enemies. Capcom has even 
 instituted a Turbo Mode that ups gameplay speed by roughly 20%. Honestly, the difference between 
 turbo and normal game speed didn't seem very obvious, but hey... at least it's in there. There 
 are a couple of other neat little goodies worth mentioning as well, but those are better left for 
 you to discover along the way.
  
  It goes without saying that Vergil is a very bluish-purple kinda guy.
  So, with all these extras 
 piled on top of an already-excellent game, what could possibly be wrong with it? Sadly there are 
 a couple of hitches (both old and new) that, while not the end of the world, does take away from 
 the experience a bit. For one, the nagging camera control problem that pops up in narrow corridors 
 still hasn't been fixed. The need to frequently backtrack hasn't been adjusted at all either, and 
 the difficulty level may still be a little frustrating for some despite its easier tone. Perhaps 
 the most obvious issue, though, isn't a technical one at all -- but the fact that most of the new 
 content (Bloody Palace, Vergil's Story, Very Hard Mode, etc) can't be unlocked unless you beat 
 the game or import a save from DMC3. Personally, none of the locked content bothered me at all 
 except for the Vergil bit -- as an advertised character and the biggest new feature of the game, 
 he should be immediately selectable from the beginning regardless of your experience with the series.
 
  
  Closing Comments
  The first version of Devil May Cry 3 was one of the best PlayStation 2 games of last year and seeing 
 it come out again with a bunch of extra features and a price of only twenty bucks is definitely 
 hard to resist... That is, unless you've already played the hell out of 2005's disc. Great upgrade 
 that this might be, it's hard to justify picking it up again unless you're a diehard fan of the 
 series or someone who has never played it before. Happy gaming to those that qualify!
  
  Dante's back yet again, but this time he isn't the only star.
  Surprisingly, the star of Devil 
 May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening Special Edition isn't actually Dante... but rather, his bad guy twin 
 brother Vergil (Don't worry, you can still play as Dante in exactly the same manner as before) . 
 What's cool about this extra addition is that Vergil isn't just some palette swap of Dante with 
 an extra animation or two -- he's a completely unique character that plays entirely different from 
 his brother. The downside is that Vergil is only limited to one combat style throughout the entire 
 game (Dark Slayer) as opposed to Dante's six. But if you don't mind using a smaller set of maneuvers 
 and attacks, this one-style restriction doesn't matter at all. The reason? Vergil is so powerful 
 that he can wipe out a wave of enemies that took Dante a few minutes to overcome in a matter of 
 seconds.
  
  In a way, Vergil's extreme power is another drawback. As cool as it is to totally annihilate anything 
 that gets in your way, a lot of what made Devil May Cry 3 cool was its extreme challenge and need 
 to figure out what fighting style would work best for what stage. When playing as Vergil, however, 
 those factors become a non-issue and the excitement of being caught up in a potentially dangerous 
 demon-drubbing isn't nearly as great. Then again, there is a great satisfaction in being a walking, 
 talking, rip-ass god of destruction, so Vergil's added power has its advantages too.
  
  Vergil will mess you up... and mess you up bad.
  While we're on the subject of challenges, DMC3 
 SE also adds an all-new difficulty setting known as Very Hard Mode. As if the game wasn't tough 
 before, the developers got together and decided making your thumbs bleed with endless reflex tests 
 wasn't enough. Apparently, it was also a good idea to bring about acute arthritic finger bone attacks 
 about 50-years too early... or at least, that's what the back of the box would have you believe. 
 In all actuality, DMC3 is surprisingly easier than it was before. This is because the advertised 
 Very Hard Mode is just the renamed Hard Mode that had previously been exclusive to U. S. versions 
 of the game -- while Normal is now the equivalent of the last game's Easy setting. Surprising, 
 but true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReliableSource
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition for PC review
  ----
  Introduction: This game can be a pain in the ^^^ if you try to play it with your keyboard &amp; 
 mouse. But it's still the best game of it's kind in my opinion.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  The graphics are certainly not stunning as the game is a PS2 port! But they are not bad as well! 
 I certainly like them! Characters are very well designed, as well as the levels.
  STORY: 10/10
  What can one say? It's a simple yet fascinating story. The thing is, that some 
 time the battles can become repetitive. It's still nice though.
  A new option which makes things even better is the fact you can play with Virgil / Vergil, Dante's 
 brother. You get to experience something new, as his moves are different, but the story remains 
 the same. Again, I think it's still nice.
  CONTROLS:10/10 if played with a gamepad
  The controls are marvellous and are just like the PS2, as far as you use a keyboard. The game is 
 marvellous as you can perform a great amount of combos, which makes the whole thing very entertaining.
 
  SOUND:10/10
  Nice rock &amp; hard rock &amp; sometimes metal music can be heard while you fight intense battles, 
 which make things even nicer.
  ---
  To end, I believe you should buy the game, as there is no doubt you will have a wonderful time 
 playing it. At least I did, a lot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Good game. Nice graphics, good sounds. Aaaand. That's it. I can't say anything more. That's all 
 of the good parts of the game. Maybe you will love the shootshootshootshoot gameplay for a few 
 minutes. But than it will be boooooooooooring. Very boring. After the first (and maybe the second) 
 level the game lost it's magic. Just shoot and run. Not the best. Graphics: Nice. The best part 
 of the game. 10/10
  
  Sounds. Can be loved, nice. 9/10
  
  Controlls: Well... not bad, but only becouse i love dante 5/10
  
  Gameplay: Boooring. 4/10 
 So i think, if you're angry it makes you fun but only than! If you are a big fan of devil may cry, 
 you will love it, but ONLY if you very love it!
  
  The good: Nice graphics, when the game begins it looks like a great game.
  
  The bad: Boring, 
 Can t be controlled, boring, better in ps2, boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hen0076
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  What made the devil cry? Devil's Never Cry .
  Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition - Is a port of a truly amazing and Highly Addictive game... the 
 port well is kinda poor there wasnt a lot of hard work into it and like said by many Like A Fish 
 In The Water On The PC thats mainly because of bad frame rate, treacherous camera and handling...
 
  for people who already played the PS2 version this game is no where near 8.7 but for PC only gamers 
 this game is a rear gem in a sea of truly boring action games... sure everyone can see the game 
 wasnt meant to be played on the PC but that dosent really stops it from being the best action game 
 out there. You play as dante a devil hunter who needs to stop his own brother, twin actually Virgil 
 from unlocking the portal to the demon world. the story of the game is set before Devil May Cry 
 1 so even new comers to the game shouldnt have any problems with the story and even enjoy the way 
 its told with all the truly amazing and breathe-taking cut scenes and lots of twists. the Special 
 Edition of the game is actually easier than the regular edition but dont let it mistake you the 
 game is still very hard and really frustrating and you might wanna start on easy just to make sure 
 you wont break any fingers :D. the gameplay of DMC3 is where the game stands-out the most with 
 2 devil arms and 2 fire arms equipped you can manipulate amazing combos and chain combos and really 
 show everyone how badass dante is :) . the learning curve is much bigger because all of the tips 
 and such are made for a controller so for all keyboard users its truly frustrating... but after 
 that you can enjoy the amazing gameplay with the best music out there every sound is exactly what 
 its need to be, the metal music is really in place and will definitely make your adrenaline rush 
 while fighting with about 16-17 bosses each with its own unique attacks and really cool cut scene 
 at the start :D. another special thing about the game is that you can spend much more than 100 
 hours playing it with 6 different difficultys, different kinds of mods and 2 playable characters 
 the game will supply you hours of enjoyment :D.
  To Sum It Up:
  well to sum it up DMC3 is with no doubt the best Action game on the PC and if you can ignore dated 
 graphics, not the best frame rate and some handling issues, your up for a ride of a life time :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listlurker
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games where the good parts (the style; the humor; the full-out action) are 
 SO good, it's easy to just gloss over, or to downplay, the bad parts. I think that's what the official 
 Gamespot review did -- everything Greg Kasavin said is essentially accurate, but he chose to emphasize 
 the good bits, and pass over some of the things you simply **have** to know if you're a standard 
 mouse-and-keyboard PC gamer thinking about trying the Devil May Cry franchise for the first time 
 here.
  
  1) You will absolutely have to buy a gamepad to play this game. Yes, there are keyboard equivalencies, 
 but they're not designed to be used by non-mutant, ten-fingered human hands in the heat of battle.
 
  
  1a) The game doesn't detect all gamepads properly. I use a wireless XBox 360 controller, and the 
 game ignores at least 4 of the buttons, leaving me with some functions keyboard-only. Worse, you 
 can't map every single function at will. Some are unchangeable.
  
  I imagine that, since DMC 3 was originally a PS2 game, your best bet would be to buy a Logitech 
 gamepad, as **I'm told** (note that) these gampads actually emulate the Playstation controls more 
 closely than the XBox set.
  
  Again, I was **told** this about Logitech gamepads. I have not tried it myself. Buyer be wary.
 
  
  2) To exit the game, hold down the Alt key and press the F4 key. Yup, this PC port doesn't even 
 have an obvious way to quit the game! I found this detail buried in the Readme text!
  
  This should give you an idea of the quality of port to expect. Likewise, have you ever seen another 
 PC game that expects you to use the Escape key (as opposed to Enter, or left-mouse-click) to select 
 menu options? Me neither.
  
  3) Get it cheap, and don't expect PC level graphics.
  
  Because you'll be wrestling with the weird port control schemes (especially if the game decides 
 it doesn't want to fully recognize all your gamepad buttons) don't pay big bucks for this game. 
 I got mine at EB for about ten bucks US, and I can't see charging more than that for it. This game 
 is fun and stylish, yes, but the port sucks, as I've been saying.
  
  The graphics have tons of slick style, with that whole  
 but the actual graphics themselves are definitely old-school by PC standards. Great design, and 
 a lot of inventiveness and spirit, but the actual art is not going to amaze you. It's last-gen 
 Playstation 2 quality, and older PS2 quality, in fact.
  
  4) You may have more fun playing on Easy mode.
  
  Depending on how well the game likes your 
 gamepad (as above, It doesn't like my XBox controller much) you may want to play the game on Easy 
 to save on frustration.
  
  After you die something like two or three times while attempting the first boss battle (which comes 
 quickly -- two battles in) , a pop-up will announce that Easy mode has unlocked. If you find you're 
 fighting the gamepad controls too much to do as well as you'd like, you may want to take this option. 
 The game's worth seeing; don't let pride keep you from having a look.
  
  IN CONCLUSION
  
  Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition is the kind of fast, frantic, cinematic action-fest we just 
 don't get on the PC. There's a backstory, of course, but don't be fooled: this game is about kicking 
 demon buttocks, and trying to look as cool as possible while doing so.
  
  The change-of-pace alone makes it worth a look for PC gamers -- but be aware of all the things 
 I mentioned. This is a game you're going to have to fidget with, and even then, it may not be worth 
 it to you. Especially since you essentially have to buy a gamepad to play it.
  
  If you don't have the patience to deal with a sucky port in order to enjoy the adrenaline action, 
 I notice that Devil May Cry 4 is slated for release in January of 2008, coming out at the same 
 time as the console versions.
  
  Perhaps this time, Capcom will give us a truly PC-friendly port. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepperlander
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  The game is very hard when you start playing, but as you get longer in the game, you start learning 
 the buttons, and it has all sorts of enemies. and the special edition allows you to play the game 
 as Vergil when you finish the game with Dante, new Jester Boss enemy, new weapons like a shotgun 
 and the Icechucks, very hard mode, and turbo mode. the game is fast and players need to think fast. 
 If you like killing monsters you should buy this game, but if you are more in nintendo games like 
 mario, or super smash bros, then this game is not for you. the controls are little hard because 
 this game was originally intended for gamepads, so that makes the controls a bit hard. But when 
 exiting the game...... there is catch. there is no way exiting the game other than turning your 
 computer off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  A port of Capcom's prequel to its ultra-hip, over-the-top action game. The PC version is based 
 on the enhanced Special Edition version.
  
  Devil May Cry 3 unfolds an earlier chapter in Dante's history, before the original Devil May Cry, 
 to the fateful clash between Sparda's twin sons, divided by the divergence of their chosen paths. 
 The game increases the intensity of gameplay with a new style system, which adds an additional 
 level of depth. Depending on preference, players can choose to use short-range, long-range, defensive 
 or evasive play styles. Each system has its own range of gameplay features and players can choose 
 to power up their favorite style for increased special attack abilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_ford
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  A simple game with plenty of action.. The bad thing is that you can't play this game without a game 
 pad.. i couldn't change the keys for the keyboard so i bought a game pad only for this game.. The 
 graphics are ok. Well designed characters and enviroments but you can only have a 1028*768 resolution 
 and that's bad... the sound is good and match with the game. As for game play is very good... Only 
 action.. and your only aim is to kill everything that moves.. no puzzles and no thinking at all. I 
 missed this type of games and i really can't the score. Only 7.1.. I am looking forward for devil 
 may cry 4.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAD-Nightmare
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  With Devil May cry we have 1 of the best action games of all times. The graphics is (espacially 
 on the PC) bad, and without a controller the last crap handing, but on the other side... the story 
 is amazing, the gameplay is really legendary, this fast-skill-needing-stylisch bashing of masses 
 of enemies, with nice weapons and moves is awesome! In no other game you can get a fighing skill 
 like here, even it's only a singleplayer game, and near everything you make can look stylisch. 
 The soundtrack is also very cool, since at the moment you hear the first track you see, this game 
 must be something special, and it is... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkytaco44
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  When Devil May Cry 3 was released so many people stopped crying about devil may cry 2 being so 
 **** This is because they were crying about getting their ass kicked by DMC3s first boss. The twist 
 introduced by playing as Vergil is different than Dante as far as weapons and style goes. Slower 
 more powerful projectiles with fast range. kick-ass weapons that you start out with. New fighting 
 style. The only thing holding back Vergil is that Dante's not a preppy **** with slick hair but 
 who really cares.
  
  Also it's pretty fun to smack around the game's new boss, Jester. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keymaster7
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  This game is a very awesome game, its fun, fast, its Stylish!!! the story of the game is very good 
 and the action/moves are superb, but one bad point of this game is the graphics, its not so good, 
 the movies/ cut scenes quality are bad otherwise this game will be rated higher than anyone could 
 imagine. now this game has a anime/animation which is cool dante looks so cool, anyways i'm looking 
 forward to the new Devil May Cry 4, the graphics should be way better. This game is worth the play, 
 trust me go and buy it now. well there is nothing much for me to say about this game, go play it 
 yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I got a poster of Devil May Cry 3 in a Gamepro magazine (I think) , I was like: 
 Oh men, I have to buy this game !!! Then I check on the poster and it's saying: PS2 only. I DON'T 
 HAVE A PS2 !!!!! oh my god, I was so desperate... I wanted this game so badly.... Recently, I heard 
 that the game was going to be released on PC. I was so happy ! 2 days after, I had the game lol. 
 The game is awesome ! Some say the controls are just scrap. I think that the controls are just 
 hard to get used to. After about half an hour, you'll be just fine. The graphics are good. I didn't 
 play the PS2 version so I can't make a comparison. The sounds are good too and the music rocks! 
 it's one big point in DMC3. The music is especially great during the amazing boss fights, like 
 Cerberus. I have to mention that the game is really hard. Different styles and combos add to the 
 fun of the game, you can specialize in one style or try to master them all!
  
  An absolutely great game, if you have a PS2, maybe forget about the PC version, but if you're like 
 me, go for it! Dante rulz ! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonhartt
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 28, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  A great stylistic action game for people who have never played devil may cry before. The story's 
 simplistic but the action's fun, especially the boss battles where you have to learn the attack 
 pattern of each boss and try to beat them at the same time.
  
  This game only has one very big problem. That is the controls are not optimised for the PC. So 
 it's best to play it with a controller. But even if you have a controller, most likely it's not 
 supported. For example, my logitech rumblepad gamepad was not supported by the game and when plugged 
 in, the game controls will go hay wire. I was only able to temporarily solve this with the use 
 of a program called JoyToKey.
  
  The good:
  - Lots of monsters to slay
  - Interesting boss battles
  - Different styles to learn and upgrade (swordmaster, gunslinger, 
 tricker, royal guard, quick sliver, doppel ganger)
  - Different weapons to use (swords and guns)
  - Execute multiple devastating combos, on the mid 
 air, on the ground
  - Cool FMVs
  -Play as villian Vergil when you complete the game!
  
  The bad:
  - Not optimised for the PC
  - Not much game controller support
  - Takes a long 
 time to master the controls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 10, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Story: You had to play the past Devil May Cry's to understand what is going on. You do play as 
 a cool guy named Dante. He has guns and some nice melee weapons. Fun stuff.
  
  Graphics: Decent, Runs Meh with an average of 10-20 fps on a decent PC
  
  Audio: lots of Hoh! 
 Kuh all those fun japanese fighting sounds
  
  Missions: Bosses and Baddies. Lots of em.
  
  Features: Really stylish combat that in entertaining to play and watch as you link cool looking 
 combos.
  
  Multiplayer: None
  
  Requirements: Average PC but may still run poorly at times
  
  Weapons: Swords, and such for 
 Melee, A few guns for Range attacks
  
  The Good: Combat looks and plays Very good and looks great at the same time
  
  The Bad: Difficulty 
 can be ramped up at times but makes you think
  
  The Ugly: All the bosses, Man they need a facelift :)
  
  Replay Ability: Average, Different 
 weapon combos
  
  The Bottom Line: A flashy combat system and decent visuals make Devil May Cry 3 a must play for 
 people who love action but less obvious Japanese roots and more polishing could have made it a 
 gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall_lionheart
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 7, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  PC gamers rejoice. One of the most stylish and fast paced series of the Playstation 2 makes its 
 grand debut on the PC. Yes my fellow gamers the half demon half-half human Dante has finally arrived 
 on the PC in what is no doubt the most stylish game to be released in the devil may cry (DMC) series. 
 Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition as the name suggests is the special edition of the 3rd installment 
 in the series. The game though the 3rd installment is actually a prequel to the 1st game and shows 
 events, which occurred even before the 1st Devil May Cry game.
  
  If you have been a follower of the DMC series on the Playstation 2 of course then you know what 
 a great game DMC 1 was and what a mess DMC 2 was. While DMC 1 was a unique and enjoyable gaming 
 experience with a class of its own DMC 2 was an experience that many gamers would like to forget 
 mostly because of its short length and relatively easy difficulty level. So to make things right 
 Capcom went back to the drawing board and build a new game engine, rebuild and redesigned everything 
 thus making Devil May Cry 3 a welcome release after 2 long years.
  
  Since the game is a prequel the game starts with Dante about to open his Devil May Cry investigation 
 agency (which is already up and running in DMC 1) when some mysterious guy enters the shop and 
 gives Dante an invitation from his evil twin brother Vergil after which he disappears and monsters 
 warp into his office from thin air and thus the game begins with you in pursuit of your twin brother.
 
  
  While 90% of the game takes place inside a huge tower called the Temen-NI-Gru, there are a few 
 missions that take place on the streets and the 1st mission takes place inside Dantes office thus 
 giving you an experience of battling foes in open as well as closed environments like a mixture 
 of DMC 1 and DMC 2.
  
  The Devil May Cry series has always been about style and DMC 3 surpasses the previous 2 installments 
 in every definition of the word style. You have a total of 6 different styles out of which 4 are 
 available to you from the start of the game (the remaining 2 are unlocked later on in the game) 
 to choose from including Gunslinger, Trickster, Swordmaster and Royal Guard. The Gunslinger (my 
 favorite mode) lets you learn stylish moves with your guns, which include new moves like Rain Storm 
 among many others. Swordmaster includes moves that you can do with your melee weapons like juggling 
 your enemies with your sword. The Trickster mode lets you dodge enemy attacks in style like running 
 up on walls. I will let you discover about the 3 remaining modes by yourself.
  
  Whichever style you choose to play with, the moves of all the styles look fantastic. Though you 
 might be tempted to try out each of the styles during the course of the game it really pays to 
 stick with one style, thats because after you earn a certain amount of style points your style 
 levels up thus giving you even more powerful moves.
  
  Style points are what you earn for killing your foes in, you guessed it, style. This time around 
 there is a small meter that lets you know whether you are fighting your foes in style or not. By 
 attacking your enemies in the same fashion again and again youll earn few style points but if 
 you string together different attacks and combos you will earn a lot of style points. Thus you 
 can come up with great looking combos by using both your melee weapon and firearms, and you can 
 also combine 2 or more melee weapons and firearms for even greater looking combos.
  
  Killing your foes earn you red orbs and if you kill them in style you will earn extra red orbs. 
 Red orbs which can be also be found lying all around the game are the currency of the DMC series 
 which you use in the game to upgrade your melee weapons, moves and firearms. Upgrades to firearms 
 include an increase in the maximum firepower of the guns, increase in the number of bullets fired 
 in a single shot etc. New moves that can be purchased include an ability to jump higher, flying 
 ability when in devil mode and many more.
  
  You can also use red orbs to buy items. Items include vital stars that replenish your health immediately, 
 devil stars that replenish your devil power, holy water that damages your foes, blue orbs that 
 increase your health bar, purple orbs that increase your devil gauge and yellow orbs that allow 
 you to continue the game from the point where you die.
  
  Besides the regular foes that you will fight you will also have to regularly face
  up against 
 the games many bosses. The boss battles are all amazing, with each boss being a unique experience. 
 Bosses look great and animate nicely and will often require you to defeat it with a different strategy. 
 Needles to say boss battles are also very tough and defeating each boss will give you a sense of 
 accomplishment that you will get from very other games.
  While there are some puzzles that you have to solve here and there they are very easy often requiring 
 you to bring an item and placing it at its right place in order to progress forward.
  
  Thus you will be spending most of your time in combat and thats not really a bad thing because 
 combat in DMC 3 is highly addictive. Dante and your foes move with great fluidity and the fast 
 pace of the action make the combat engaging. The sound effects and music also play an important 
 part in making the combat of this game work. The sound effects of your melee weapons slashing through 
 your enemies and your firearms blasting through them, both sound great. Other sound effects are 
 also up to the mark. The music is exactly what you might expect from a game like this. It mellows 
 down when there are no enemies around but switches to a heavy rock soundtrack as soon as the action 
 starts. Sometimes you will be banging your head to the great soundtrack. The music really helps 
 you get in the mood and get that adrenaline pumping.
  
  Characters in cut scenes look great and show facial expressions while lips move accurately with 
 the words that are being spoken and the voice work is also up to the mark. The action in the cut 
 scenes looks as if it has been taken out of a movie and one movie that comes to mind is The Matrix. 
 Bullet time has been used a lot in the cut scenes giving them style. You havent seen anything 
 like this in a game before this I guarantee.
  
  Environments in the game look awesome. Inside Temen-Ni-Gru or outside all the environments are 
 highly detailed, wear a gothic look and are well lit. Besides the environments all the animations 
 and effects are spot on thus making it a very pretty game.
  
  The original DMC 3 was a tough game and being so tough was the only negative point about it. Because 
 of its steep learning curve and difficulty, many gamers looking for a casual action game were turned 
 away towards easier action games. But those gamers who stuck with the game found that in the later 
 stages the game becomes relatively easier because you can transform into devil form plus weapons 
 upgrades and items that you will have purchased will help you survive.
  
  So this time around they have toned down the difficulty level and added an easy difficulty level 
 setting allowing casual gamers to also give this game a try. 2ndly the game allows you to continue 
 the game from the last checkpoint whenever you die and also lets you buy a new gold orb that instantly 
 brings you back to life wherever you die (kind of making the yellow orb useless) which wasnt possible 
 in the original.
  
  So what else is new in this SE you might ask. Well besides the introduction of a new difficulty 
 setting the game allows you to play as Vergil, Dantes brother thus giving you a whole new set 
 of different fighting moves, weapons etc. But you wont get to see or experience a different story 
 line from that of Dantes, which is a bit disappointing. Its the same story with a different character.
 
  Finally, DMC 3 SE is a very fast game and I would recommend you to play this game with a game 
 pad since a regular fight will have you jumping, dodging, hacking&amp; slashing and shooting. Although 
 you might manage to do that with your standard mouse and keyboard it wont be easy nor as much fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  Well the game was a nice surprize fro UBISOFT &amp; CAPCOM ... i was allways a fon of the game 
 but i didn't played it because it wasn't made for the PC .. but UBI has maked an important step 
 by porting the game to the PC &amp; giving CAPCOM a push in the PC business YUPEE . As you start 
 the game you will notice superb animations especially in the in-engine trailers &amp; then hardcore 
 fighting with various types of monsters . The main focus of the game is the figting giving you 
 4 fighting style skills &amp; more weapons as your progress thru the game beatting bosses &amp; 
 solving some puzzles... the story of the game is superb &amp; every cutscene is not only a dialog 
 made with superb voice acting but olso an eye candy because of the animations .The sounds of the 
 game are just perfect &amp; the graphics are nice alltough they are kind of old you will still 
 see some really shocking stuff ! I still don't know why ppl are complaining about the controls 
 .. because i think they were very well made .. i practicly didn't have a problem ... ofcourse after 
 some time your fingers will want to quit on you &amp; you have to take some breaks but that dosen't 
 mean that the controls are bad ... Anyway is a great game with great storyline &amp; gameplay that 
 you should not miss ... because you have to prepare yourself for DMC4 &amp; LOST PLANET for PC 
 ... thank GOD .. goood work CAPCOM !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thneng
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  maybe u guys may ask me why this game boring? i dont thing this game boring but very difficult 
 to control. i have finish ps2 version but i can even finish 1 chapter in pc mode, the control are 
 so difficult. maybe is i am using gamepad. the moving control key is right analog, how i gonna 
 hit somebody by moving with right analog? because at the same time i need to press the button also 
 on the right side, its really made me feel so dissapointed.
  but i still giving the good rating, this is a good game but just only the converter need to suit 
 this game into keyboard and mouse.
  
  this only my personal problem 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emile144
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Although many consider this port to be rough and rugged, truly it is not. The controls are a bit 
 complicated on a keyboard but after the first 1-2 hrs they do not spoil the gameplay and some people 
 even enjoy them.
  The sound is simply amazing although a bit repetitive. It is based on a single song, originating 
 from the original DMC3-Devils never cry.
  Graphics are good but maybe need that bit more of a boost.
  For a budget game this is amazing. 
 At the end of each level you get a score so u may want to improve it forcing u to play the game 
 over and over. A game which could be completed in less than a days play. HOwever, in an effort 
 to level up your character's styles unlock the two, reasonably harder to get weapons but also to 
 gain red orbs to buy new actions, you'll find yourself playing for much longer. I (n this special 
 edition there is also the addition of vergil. Vergil's gaeplay varies a lot between whatweapons 
 you plan on using. Using his proper sword , it is similar to dante and the beowulf is the same, 
 with the addition of some amazing new actions. The katana, this is something diferent. A weapon 
 based on speed which moves so fast that otehrs do not see you moving it. unfortunately capcom failed 
 here to give it that essence of speed and with the port it has lost even more. Nevertheless a great 
 game with few flaws, budget priced and a great continuation to an honorable series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djiel
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  yes, dmc is awesome but they did a horrible job porting it to pc
  
  the fps is horrible even on my rather high end pc, this really kills the fun and makes it hard 
 to do stuff
  
  the gfx are ok, not really great.. woulve been nice to have resolutions higher than 1024x768 :/
 
  
  the sounds are pretty good, some nice effects
  music is fitting but not enough tracks
  
  the movies are in mpg, and have some nasty aliasing.. lol
  animation in them is wonderful 
 though and the story (though ridiculous) is funny
  
  ive read many have problems with controls..
  i had none with my Rumblepad2, the sticks worked 
 perfectly fine
  
  i myself dont often play games like this and had lots of trouble with it.. found it to be very 
 hard in difficulty. overal DMC3SE is good but plagued by horrible fps and high difficulty
  and im sure its tons better on the ps2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazy-Kingdom
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Description
  Devil May Cry 3 unfolds an earlier chapter in Dante's history, before the original Devil May Cry, 
 to the fateful clash between Sparda's twin sons, divided by the divergence of their chosen paths. 
 Along the way, Dante encounters formidable foes and unusual characters including a mysterious man 
 named Arkham and a female hunter named Lady whose mission is to take down all demons, including 
 Dante. These precursory events disclose the complex roots of Dante's character and reveal insight 
 into his clouded past.
  
  Devil May Cry 3 preserves the fast-paced action that has made the series so popular. In addition 
 to its strong roots, the game increases the intensity of gameplay with a new style system, which 
 adds an additional level of depth. Depending on preference, players can choose to use short-range, 
 long-range, defensive or evasive play styles. Each system has its own range of gameplay features 
 and players can choose to power up their favorite style for increased special attack abilities. 
 The range of options available in Devil May Cry 3 immerses players in a non-stop, thrilling escapade. 
 Features
  Unrelenting, hard-core gothic action Fresh new character design  Dante appears younger, but still 
 has his stylish swagger and rock star good looks Huge arsenal of weapons - Handguns, powerful shotguns, 
 tricked out guitars and much more Combo system - Equip Dante with up to four different weapons 
 that can be swapped at anytime, allowing the freedom to develop a range of fighting moves and combinations 
 Customize Dante's fighting style - Evasive style which allows Dante to deftly dodge enemy attacks 
 with speed and finesse. Close-range specialty maximizes the impact of up close attacks with the 
 blade. Long-range style that lets Dante blow away enemies with his fire arms. Counter attack and 
 guard expertise against strong enemy power Enhanced graphics - Fully textured rich backgrounds 
 utilizing 3D polygons as well as real time rendering for in game cut scenes and intro movie Multitude 
 of demonic enemies - More ferocious than ever before with powerful weapons, the ability to transform 
 and fly and other challenging surprises Obtain orbs throughout the game to purchase new weapons, 
 fighting techniques, increase strength and more Dolby Digital and Dolby Pro Logic II support Hidden 
 weapons, items, characters, difficulty levels and more
  
  Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening MY! Review:
  It's funny how prequels work. They're supposed 
 to take place before the original story, which means there should be a bit of inferiority involved. 
 To do that we have to deteriorate whatever it is that we loved about the original to make an additional 
 chapter. Where's the sense in that? Why would we want to sacrifice all that we love about the original 
 in order to keep the order?
  
  That's why we end up with prequels that play like sequels. That's why Devil May Cry 3: Dante's 
 Awakening is the coolest game in the series. Dante, the half-breed (half devil, half human) hero 
 from the first game, has more moves, better dialogue, and superior action. He's got weapons he 
 didn't have before, and an impressive (but somewhat gimmicky) style system.
  
  Attack more viciously with an aerial assault on your foe (Swordmaster) . Next time choose the Trickster 
 style and taunt your opponent to make him think he can hit you. Then hop around the screen to show 
 him otherwise.
  
  The Gunslinger style is easily my favorite to use. First of all, it lets you hit multiple enemies 
 at the same time by shooting in the air. (Normal gunfire targets one enemy and one enemy only whether 
 you're in the air or not. By attacking with the style button, circle, anyone in close proximity 
 will be hit.) Second, the Gunslinger style gives Dante the power to shoot in more than one direction 
 at the same time! He's always had two guns, so it's about time he utilized them in a movie-like 
 fashion.
  
  Dante celebrates the 4th of July a few months early.
  
  This goes a long way in Capcom's effort to reinforce Dante's coolness. The controls, which make 
 or break the appeal of any character action, do nothing but good things for the player. Press the 
 circle button while Dante's feet are flat on the ground. Then move the left analog stick in the 
 direction you'd like the second gun to be fired in. Instantly you're shooting in two directions, 
 the second of which can be changed at any time just by moving the analog stick. Awesome!
  
  Dante can still float after a high jump or a fall by repeatedly tapping the square button to fire 
 a stream of bullets at the nearest beast. All the best lunging, swiping, sword-slashing moves are 
 back. Devil May Cry 3 is still Devil May Cry. No revolutionary transformations took place, nor 
 did the developers screw things up by making changes to conform to the competition. (Not that any 
 competition exists. Can you think of a single Devil May Cry clone that left a lasting impression?)
 
  
  Players will break into Dante's Awakening expecting more of what they love. They'll get that, and 
 shortly afterwards they'll get to the game's creamy filling, AKA Sodium Bichallenite ( extreme 
 challenge ) . Devil May Cry 3 goes back to its tough-as-nails roots by giving you the most ferocious 
 collection of beasts Dante has ever seen. Gamers will cry if they were expecting an easy-going, 
  type of adventure. Only the strong may enter the world of Devil 
 May Cry 3.
  
  This is not for the timid, or for those who give up after a hard battle. You may have conquered 
 the old Resident Evil games. Maybe Onimusha, and the Dino Crisis series as well. Still, you haven't 
 won a serious battle until you've defeated the monstrous Devil May Cry, a game that is merely a 
 stepping stone to this prequel.
  
  Although slightly frustrating at times, this is preferable to game prequels and sequels that are 
 less challenging than the previous iterations. Having a challenge that's comparable is not enough 
 since our skills are always improving (thus making a comparable challenge seem weaker than the 
 first game) . Gamers complained that DMC2 was too easy, and boy, did Capcom listen. You'll thank 
 them ... right after you replace the controller you just broke.
  
  For those who wish to make the game easier (or wish to maximize the power of Dante whether you 
 can handle the challenge or not) , Devil May Cry 3 has a level selection feature that kicks in as 
 soon as you beat the first stage. If you die a few times while trying to complete the game on the 
 normal difficulty setting, the easy setting will become available.
  
  Before Master Chief, Dante was dual-wielding like a pro.
  
  You can go back to the early stages, 
 play through them on the easy setting and gain several A or S rankings to earn larger bonuses. 
 The Devil May Cry series has always been big on upgrades, but this version takes the cake and blows 
 out all the candles. There's almost too much to buy when you consider the price of items, which 
 increases every time you make a purchase! Health items are difficult to obtain as a result, adding 
 to pain and suffering whenever a boss appears. Get used to it gamers: this one doesn't let up.
 
  
  I know aesthetics are minimally important to the quality of a game, but when a character is as 
 cool as Dante, they make the experience so much better. When I'm playing as him, I feel like I'm 
 a butt-kicking, devil-slaying master that no one can touch. My moves are precise, my aim is perfect. 
 Everyone is envious of who I am; even those disgusting, half-dead enemies wish they could be me. 
 That's what Dante does, he turns you into something you are not. Very few games do this. There 
 are tons of great shooters out there, but rarely do I feel like I'm a part of their world, and 
 rarely do I want to be.
  
  Devil May Cry 3 showed that if the world does get run over by demons, all I need is a few guns, 
 a large sword, bleached hair, unrealistic reflexes and other supernatural moves to save the day. 
 Clearly if that happened we'd all be doomed, but it sure makes for a great game.
  
  Review Scoring Details for Devil May Cry 3 Gameplay: 9.0
  Devil May Cry 3 envelopes the player 
 in a unique way that's only possible because of the lead character. Dante's level of cool is higher 
 than ever, making it that much more enjoyable to become him. The style system is both awesome (I 
 love all of the new moves) and gimmicky (did these moves really need to be separated? If so, why 
 can't I change styles at any point in the game?) . Levels are huge; boss battles are outrageous; 
 the difficulty is extreme; and the action is as fast as you can get without turning the game into 
 something obnoxious.
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  The most beautiful lighting, the most spectacular designs, and the most artistic architecture since 
 the first Devil May Cry was released.
  
  Sound: 8.8
  A decent mix of rock and techno. Not separate rock and techno tracks, actual songs that sound like 
 hard rock meets videogame techno.
  
  The soundtrack is worthy of a 7.5 or so, but Dante's voice acting (a character that has some of 
 the best dialogue in Capcom history) bumps it up to an impressive 8.8.
  
  Five years from now I'll remember Dante, but I doubt I'll think about the music at all. That's 
 quite a switch for games  voice acting that's memorable, and a soundtrack that isn't.
  
  Difficulty: Hard
  That speech about feeling invincible when I'm playing as Dante sounded so believable 
 until it came time to talk about the difficulty. If you see me run away and a transparent body 
 stays in my place, you know why.
  
  Concept: 7.9
  More of the same ... with more polish, all-new levels, increased maneuverability, and an increased 
 challenge.
  
  Overall: 9.0
  Glee: happy-inducing gunfights, smirk-arousing dialogue.
  
  Gripes: the battles aren't free of repetition and the camera still isn't perfect.
  
  Grapes: 
 are nutritious and delicious and are a healthy part of a balanced diet.
  
  Devil May Cry 3 is just what the doctor ordered. Dr. Gamer, that is. No one's going to walk away 
 disappointed. I could wish all day that the battles weren't repetitive, but if we look back on 
 every game in the action/shooter genre, we'll see that that's unavoidable. Curiosity may have killed 
 the cat, but in most cases, diversity killed the game. I'm thankful for all the things that it 
 is (exciting, amusing, challenging, etc.) , so I'll be accepting of the few things that it isn't.
 
  
  Note: Devil May Cry 3 is habit forming. Side effects are more inviting than sugar pill and include 
 insomnia. Gamers playing Devil May Cry 3 may not be able to go to work, school, or complete daily 
 household chores. Less than 2% of men said they lost their appetite while playing Devil May Cry 
 3, craving nothing but the game's fulfilling taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DangerMIB
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Devil may cry is an excellent third person hack'n'slash game that it is worth playing. It has a 
 good storyline (you play as dante and u try to defeat your twin brother virgil that wants to unseal 
 the gate between the world of darkness and the human world. after u defeat him few times... at 
 the end of the game he remains trapped in the realm of darkness. after u finish the game u can 
 play as virgil) It has some real solid and fun combat moves that are way better than prince of 
 percia. if it weren't for the game control the game could get a higher grade.. but u get used to 
 the controls if u play a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandosu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  There is little to comment about this game. Its main ingredient is mind-numbing action. Shooting 
 and cutting, that is what you do most of the time. The scenario is typical of this genre, its like 
 BLADE or UNDERWORLD. It doesn't matter really. You will play this game for action, and that is what 
 it offers. The character has many moves, enough to make it worth learning them and executing them 
 one after another in order to slice and dice your enemies in thousand pieces and mincemeat. The 
 camera is static, but it doesn't cause any problems most of the time. The game is linear and the 
 bonuses don't count for much, but you will enjoy the more difficult levels and the powers you gain. It 
 is like a game in an arcade. The music accompanies the carnage int the right way. The graphics are 
 a bit outdated, but who cares. Play this game for the fun of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdstoneX3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Devil may Cry 3 special edition for the PC is a port of the latest installment for the PS2 with 
 a few changes, gruelling controls and graphics that look a bit worse than they do on ps2. So is 
 it worth it? id say yes.
  
  Story: You play as Dante, the Son of the Demon Warrior and Legendary Dark Knight Sparda who sealed 
 the gateway to the demonic world a long time ago who is currently close to opening up his shop 
 when a mysterious person arrives. and this is where the story picks up.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay on the PC is gruesomely difficult yet highly satisfying if you can manage to play using 
 the keyboard, a gamepad is perferred though since pulling off some of the more difficult moves 
 is very difficult. in any event the combat system is fun, you will use a variety of weapons to 
 blast and cut the demons back from whence they came, there is 10 weapons in total 5 close combat 
 and 5 sidearms which makes for a great variety of ways to finish off an openent. in the course 
 of the adventure you will collect red orbs which allow you to purchase upgrades for your weapons 
 as well as your health bar. The Levels themselves are pretty much straight forward with a few exceptions. 
 The Boss Battles in this game are intense and difficult, especially in the beginning and some players 
 might be deterred by the difficulty of the game, but no worries, its just a matter of geting used 
 to the combat system. Graphics:
  
  The Graphics on the Computer dont seem quite right, not really optimized for the computer, its 
 like they took the ps2 version and didnt really work to improve the pc version at all, the only 
 thing you will get out of the pc version is a higher resolution.
  
  Sound:
  
  The Sound and the music is very well made and provides the neccesary ambiente for the game providing 
 for a very good atmosphere throughout the game.
  
  Value:
  
  This game definitly has a high replay value, with various difficulties from easy to extremly hard, 
 up to Dante must die you will really be able to have alot of fun with this, plus, there is things 
 to unlock such as alternate costumes and alternate character, as well as the bloody palace mode 
 which players might know from previous installments. all in all this game is fun and fufilling 
 even if its not quite done right for the PC, the controls and the graphics could use some work. 
 other than that, this game is fun. a worthy addition to any video gaming collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spurrv
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  I remember when my friend played devil may cry 3 on his ps2 and i thought to myself. Why the hell 
 isn't there a pc-version?
  
  Well, years later i found one. And this is a great port, it works with either a keyboard or a gamepad 
 (i have used both) and THATS a BIG plus.
  
  The game's plot is simple, kill the bad demons and look good while doing it.
  Sometimes it feels 
 repetive when you enter the same room again, but all of a sudden some new badass demons arrive 
 and there is no time to think about the scenery. Grab your sword and ATTACK!
  Thats all there is to this game basicly. Upgrade your weapons and skills.
  Use your skills to 
 kill demons. It sounds simple, right? Well since this game is hard even on normal the first time 
 you play it, there is more to it than just killing. You have to be carefull in order to survive. 
 Still its fun as hell (literally) .
  
  More good news are that you can play as vergil after you complete the game, wich adds more replayability.
 
  
  The graphics are allright since this game is so fast paced . The only bad thing about it is the 
 sometimes graphical issues that involves my computer getting a black screen and me getting pissed 
 of.
  And ofcourse the music, i hate the fighting music.
  Great movie sequences that shows just how a bad-ass Dante really is.
  
  More games like this 
 please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flux_punK
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty much like the previous one on PS2, but the controls are different cause you 
 use a keyboard. Controlling a game designed for PS2 with a keyboard is like eating a hamburger 
 without thumbs. This could have been covered if the game had proper gamepad support, but guess 
 what? It don't. Only half of the keys are coustumisable, the game doesn't find many buttons and 
 the movement controls can't be changed from the right analog (should be used for camera, but is 
 inverted so you control camera with the left analog) . You can play as Vergil though :D And the 
 game seems somewhat easier than on the PS2.. i dunno if this is correct.
  
  Like this game then get god of war for PS2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 3 is a excellent fantasy third person hack n slash / shooter game. You play the game 
 as Dante the handsome hunk out to stop his brother and nemesis Virgil who is also a handsome dude. Dante 
 has to destroy evil. Tjhe lady is a mysterious character out to demolish evil too. You get awesome 
 soundtracks , action , style in the game. The storyline is cool. The graphics in the game is standard. The 
 AI and soundquality of the game is Okay. Voiceacting and the dialouges are quite good and humorous 
 at times. The cutscene movies in the game trully amazes one. Gameplay is quite interesting , plus 
 you get more powers as u progress in the game. The powers of the hero in the game trully rocks. The 
 controls for the game with keyboard can very tough to adjust , its safe to use a analog controller 
 for the game as originally its a console game. Limited save system in the game is frustating also. Overall 
 ,this game is a must buy for P. C. I highly recommend this game to action lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horadriclucifer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Some of you do not like this game for its controls and game play. But thats not enough to give 
 such a low score!
  In my point of view, this game was fun. Why? Let me list it out for ya.
  
  Pros
  - [Graphics] : Nice shadows and lighting and special attack move effects!
  - [Possibilities] : 
 There are Four styles to begin with, and two more to be added on later on; SIX STYLES TO CHOOSE 
 FROM! All unique and different branch of moves!
  - [Addiction] : This may not apply to everybody, but this game was addicting. New puzzles and things 
 to do every corner and tons of enemies to own- YOUR WAY!
  - [Music] : Awesome music while pwning enemies (Heavy Metal) and cut scenes. 'Nuff said.
  
  Cons
 
  - [Controls] : The controls at first was HARD. I had to press every damn button to find out that 
 number pad was movement and J, K, L, I did all the attack stuff. But once you get it, IT'S ON.
  - [Story] : Eh, Not a too great story to remember forever. But why does that matter now days anyway? 
 xP
  - [Game Play] : Views gets in your way at times. Sometimes you would wish It was a direct view third 
 person game. Also takes a long time to get use to. And with all the combos under your fingers, 
 you may not always get the moves you want.
  
  I guess thats about it. Also, you wont believe all the stuff you can unlock! Sometimes it's hard 
 to believe that this is actually one game. :D
  Anyways...
  If you like mass killing with flashy moves, this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riggs8595
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  this game is just seriously fun, i love it. i like how you turn into a demon, its awsome!!! i dont 
 know how some people hate this game though its cool. i started it off on easy, because normal is 
 hard. when u beat the game as dante, you can be his brother vergil. its real awsome. his brothe 
 dosent have guns though. i can say that the level when you go insid that flying maonsters belly, 
 that level was pretty dumb.-_-. oh yeah i got the pack that come with 1, 2 and 3. and this is the 
 end of my reveiew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcsk8ter
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  First of all I have never play a Devil May Cry before and at the end i loved it it was very funny. 
 now...
  
  The Graphics: The game in general is very beautiful for a port game i was impressed too by the 
 quality of the character but some bug graphic on the cloth of Dante and the right face of the man 
 who was with Vergil.
  
  The Gameplay : Before I purchased this game i read some reviews about gamer that said the control 
 was horrible but when I play it was not so bad after it sure its easier with a game pad but i was 
 learning fast with the keyboard .
  
  The Longevity: I haven't finished it yet but I am almost at the end and it took me like 11hours 
 to arrived at this mission so it took a while to finished it.
  
  The Sounds : No problem with the sound in fact the sounds make you entering more in the game.
 
  
  The Scenario : For that kind of game its an interesting story if i have got a Playstation 2 in 
 the past its sure I will have them all.
  
  So in conclusion , I don't regret my purchase and i hope it will have a another Devil May Cry on 
 Pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Lord77
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  The last time I played a game of this genre, which was as gripping and enjoyable, was at the beginning 
 of the year (Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones) . As most gamers know, transcoding a PS2 game into 
 one thats suitable for the PC can be a dodgy process and often results in a game that feels 
 awkward and unnatural to play. Such was the case with Onimusha 3. Initially one would assume the 
 same to be true about Devil May Cry (DMC) 3 due to the strange way in which keys are mapped from 
 the PS2s controller. These keys are practically impossible to re-configure and its most advisable 
 to use a compatible game controller to play the game. However, once you get accustomed to the keyboard 
 configuration, which usually takes about 20 minutes of practice play, this impediment seems somewhat 
 trivial; inexistent even.
  
  For those, like me, who havent experienced the other titles in the DMC series, fear not! The series 
 story line, when being designed, was made not in order of the sequence of the games released. This 
 resulted in the story progressing as follows: DMC 3, 1, 4, 2. Quite messed up indeed!
  
  Betrayal is the primary theme of the story of this game. The plot revolves around the eternal feud 
 between two half-demon, twin brothers: Vergil and Dante. These two are the sons of the legendary 
 demon, Sparda. Sparda was a powerful demon who betrayed his demon brethren in order to rid the 
 Earth of the chaos that the demon world had caused. Dante and Vergil, despite being siblings, are 
 arch nemeses whose souls desire opposing goals. Vergil, the antagonist, represents everything that 
 Dante doesnt. He is driven by his desire for his fathers demonic power while Dante, the protagonist, 
 is motivated by the need to serve justice and uphold his fathers goals by keeping the portal to 
 the demon world sealed. The game focuses on Dantes acceptance of his demonic side while maintaining 
 his human goodness or humane side.
  
  Much like POP (Prince of Persia) , DMC hasnt only an incredibly deep and fascinating story. Gameplay 
 and graphical detail are given high priority too! The game is a visual masterpiece with smooth 
 flowing graphics and highly detailed texturing. Levels are well designed and are minimally monotonous. 
 World architecture, too, is brilliantly represented, providing the gamer with the atmosphere and 
 sense of a mysterious and evil time. Although, arguably, its hardly comparable to games such as 
 F. E. A. R and Hitman: Blood Money in terms of graphics but the gameplay more than makes up for it, 
 making it one of the best released titles for the PC of 2006. An array of weaponry and fighting 
 styles give rise to some of the most astounding combos which, in my opinion, is what makes this 
 game exceptional. Dante carries with him a choice of two guns and two melee weapons, each with 
 their own unique fighting styles and powers. The moves are beautifully choreographed and are reminiscent 
 of the free form fighting system of the POP series. Once cleared, the second playable character, 
 Vergil, is unlocked. This bonus was a brilliant idea from the games creators as the player can 
 re-experience the entire game through the eyes of the antagonist. Vergil has his own chic technique 
 as a swordsman. His moves are focused more on speed, efficiency and accuracy as opposed to the 
 brutish methods of Dante. Vergil carries no guns but can summon various amazing spells instead.
 
  
  The game, like POP, is not all hack and slash either. Many levels require the player to think as 
 there are various intricate puzzles to be solved. These puzzles within the game are, unfortunately, 
 not as detailed or extravagant as those in POP.
  
  The music and sound effects are magnificently scored and perfectly enhance the intended mood and 
 feel during the game. Dantes colourful commentary and dialogue during fighting and cut-scenes 
 seem adolescent but, at times, gave insight into the true depth of his persona. Vergils cold and 
 calculating character are illustrated using similar means.
  
  Some of the negative aspects of the game include minor lip sync problems and the fact that the 
 gamer first needs to become familiar with the keys of the game. Also the script and screenplay 
 could have been done better but nevertheless its not something that I expect many users to moan 
 over. Im quite sure that the PS2 original of this game is superior but I cant imagine it to be 
 significantly so. Overall, the meticulous design of this game across all its qualities produces 
 a 3rd person, action-adventure that all PC gamers should be sure to play. Its truly a must-have 
 that embodies great panache and will have gamers desperate for the next instalment, DMC 4.
  
  (DMC 4 will only be released in 2007 for the PS3) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud01y
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  I tried to enjoy this game, i really did but it just is not possible. This port is flat out horrible 
 due to its controlls which make it unplayable.
  
  When using a keyboard i found it impossible to execute any special moves and from so much button 
 mashing my hands hurt. I got myself a PS2 controller for the PC to find out they messed this up 
 too. You can either have it like this:
  
  Left analog stick:
  Move it left = dante goes right
  Move it right = dante goes left
  
  Right analog stick
 
  Move it down = dante goes up
  Move it up = dante goes down.
  
  These are not remapable. The only option is to enable analog reversing. Which makes the left stick 
 to absolutely nothing while the right moves dante correctly. How are you supposed to play like 
 this?
  I hunted down google for an alternate solution to this problem, I found a programme that emulates 
 keyboard movement to your controller. I bound WASD to the left analog stick and was able to controll 
 dante some what, but it was still just too hard to execute moves that required you to pull back 
 in the reverse direction and navigating areas with pits was annoying as dante wouldnt move in the 
 correct direction.
  
  I tried to like this game, i gave it a chance. But due to this horrible controlls i just got my 
 butt handed to me every time, and the bosses were rather boring.
  
  The gameplay does make a difference from DMC2, DMC2 had wide open levels where enemies could be 
 dodged, in this it goes back to DMC1 formula where you're trapped, nowhere to run and everything 
 must die.
  The game does add a different move set system, i found it interesting but still too hard to execute 
 due to the bad controlls.
  
  The audio is been there done that. DMC3 does have its unique style of music, but it sounds dull 
 and flat toned. More like an ambient back drop then a kicking beat that gets you pumped.
  
  The voice acting is well done, and the animation work is good.
  
  My final thoughts is if you 
 see this in your bargain bin leave it there and go pick up the PS2 version. Because this is a horrid, 
 horrid port that is just unplayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netmorten
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 3 Dantes Awakening: Special Edition is a game by Capcom, that lets you take on the 
 role as the half human, half demon guy called Dante.
  
  The game starts of with Dante trying to open a shop, when a man called Arkham brings you an invitation 
 from your brother vergil (who had seemingly dissapeared a few years ago) and then demons apear, 
 and a huge tower comes up from the ground outside, and then Dante goes off to confront his twin 
 brother, Vergil.
  
  When you take control of Dante you only got a sword called Rebellion, and two guns called Ebony 
 &amp; Ivory. But as the game progresses, you get more swords and guns. An unfortunate thing is 
 that the guns isn't nearly as powerful as the swords. You can also choose between four styles that 
 each has special abilities. There is the Trickster that lets you do lightning quick moves do evade 
 enemies. The Swordmaster that lets you use you're swords more effectively. Gunslinger that, obviously 
 enough, lets you use you're guns more effectively. And the last one, Royal Guard, that lets you 
 block enemies attack, and release the energi later. The story is good as well. You'll never know 
 what happens next.
  
  My conclusion is that Devil May Cry 3 is the best game i've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Ok this is a console port and it should have been kinda crappy but it isn't
  
  The Good: Intense, Many Unlockables, many comboes, can be played with a Keyboard, the ability to play 
 with Virgil, funny cutscenes like the battle with Agni &amp; Rudra (think it's spelled like that) , you 
 don't need a great PC to run it
  
  The Bad: Kinda lacks Good Graphics, pretty short if you want only to go though the Single-Player 
 once
  
  Ok.... the game rocks very much. It has a HUGE replay value thanks to all of the unlockables, it's 
 very intense and it has entrertaining puzzles. There should be more games like this on PC. The only 
 thing that it lacks are graphics but you can get over those
  
  It's a must play for anybody even if you were not interested in the DMC universe like me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Dark-Raiden
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Probably the best action game in 2006. Playing the role of Dante and after you have finished the 
 game first time you can play as Dante's brother Vergil, two half demon half human brothers, sons 
 of Sparda you will have to fight a lot of enemies and discover one amaizing story. The weapons 
 they both use are really incredible, even if Dante has more then Vergil. The music is really awesome 
 and totally perfect for a game as Devil May Cry. if you are a fan or just like action games like 
 Devil May Cry you have to try this incredible game that Capcom brought to us for Pc . Capcom totally 
 rules ! Anyway try it, i am sure that you will like it. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 11, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  Good
  The thing i like about this game most is, this game gets strait into the action, no bull here folks... 
 I love this game dearly, it is quite a find, and all the Movie Epps threw out this game are the 
 best parts to get to... almost like hidden treasures. DMC is more of a comedy-action-strategy then 
 you would think... Iv laughed so many hard laughs threw out this game, had fun with the puzzles 
 its left behind and cracked more then my share of demon skulls! And for that it just made it a 
 classic hit on my charts that over rules everything im about to say on the bad
  
  Bad
  The game also has its bad points... many of them, for example its to random. Like one minute im 
 jumping of a building killing everything in my path, the next minute im eaten by a whale that comes 
 out of the sky?? Lmao More importantly without a controller this game is almost impossible to 
 play to its full extent because there are so many combos to lay out in this game its very hard 
 to memorize them with the thrill rush going on, and then to have to go that extra mile and lay 
 them down with the keys DMC offers is just suicidal, meaning youll get very aggravated and try 
 killing yourself. Another thing I hated about this game was its very strategic, to strategist for 
 its own good. There are some parts in here that just either give no clues what so ever and you 
 would have never expected thats where you needed to go or there are just some parts nearly impossible 
 to get past ( like those damn trees with the glowing instrument things or whatever that you have 
 to slash to get stylish ) because the game designers didnt pay close enough attention to how 
 hard they were making it, i swear whoever made that stylish should be punished to get stylish 8 
 times with no specials or upgrades and no cheats on one of those slashing trees where the fire 
 goes out because its the hardest thing iv ever attempted in any other game before. Another downfall 
 is it lacks soundtracks, it simply plays the same soundtrack over and over again every single battle. 
 And no it does not grow on you it gets out of tune if anything. Also the perfect placement parts 
 threw out the game are just to corny... I mean once in a while catching a 45 mag round clear in 
 the air and into the cartridge, pre loading the gun is ok, but when everyones doing it its just 
 to much But with all that said its still a great game, these are just the problems 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 28, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 3 is much closer to action adventures than Devil May Cry 1 and especially 2. Unlike 
 the previous games there will be a lot of button mashing, stylish actions and great presentations.
 
  
  Story: Long ago in ancient times, demons have reined the world and have brought terror and fear 
 amongst the humans, one demon however, rebelled against his own people and chose to fight for the 
 just of humans, this demon was Sparda. After 2 millenniums of battles Sparda has succeeded in banishing 
 the demons, he then earned a place in legends and was dubbed the legendary dark knight Sparda. 
 Sparda had a love relationship with a human woman; he then gave birth to 2 sons. After he passed 
 away the human mother was taking care of the twin half human half demon brothers, Virgil and Dante. 
 The twins mother has passed away due to being raided by demons. Whilst Dante choose the path of 
 a demon hunter Virgil decided to join the demons in order to gain great power. It has been a year 
 since the twins parted their ways, now they must face each other as enemies, for only the one left 
 standing is worthy of being the son of Sparda.
  
  Game design: Devil May Cry 3 has moved back to its gothic architecture. The environments look really 
 great as well as the graphical improvements done to the game. Since the game takes place before 
 Devil May Cry 1 Dante has been given a younger teenage look, and unlike his mature self he is incredibly 
 cocky (even for his own good) . The game is so much more fast paced than Devil May Cry 1 and 2. 
 As before you will run through a series of missions, you can also re-do missions anytime you like. 
 You can also unlock difficulty levels. Each mission will have 2 animated cut scenes that are incredibly 
 presented, they are not only stylish but can be hilarious or dramatic, completely unlike Devil 
 May Cry 1 and 2, and you will probably be watching those scenes over and over again.
  
  Game play: As mentioned before Devil May Cry 3 is a lot more fast paced and quick reactions and 
 decisions is essential in order to make this game worth while, its going to be quite difficult 
 to grasp, even for Devil May Cry fans but once you get the hang of it you will certainly never 
 stop playing.
  Just like the previous games Dante will be using his trademark Guns, Ebony and Ivory, and his sword, 
 Rebellion. You will gain new weapons as you progress through the game.
  Through out the game when you collect red orbs from enemies you can use them to learn new techniques 
 and abilities for each of your weapons from hourglasses. You also have to go to the hourglass in 
 order to change equipments.
  The newest addition to the game is the style system. Dante can perform special attacks based on 
 your particular style of fighting. For example there is Trickster, for advanced manoeuvring skills, 
 Gunslinger for more gun techniques, Sword Master for performing more devastating melee attacks 
 or Royal Guard, best for those who prefer defence than offence. Each style can be levelled up by 
 gaining style points, style points occur from different combos you perform. You can earn new styles 
 as you progress through the game.
  Another new addition to the game is that you can equip 2 guns and 2 swords and can switch them 
 mid-battle, offering you a wider range of attacks, not to mention more style points.
  The special edition of Devil May Cry 3 has included another difficulty level, a new mode called 
 bloody palace mode, a new boss and the most notable feature is that Vergil is now a playable character. 
 Vergil will have 3 weapons in total, the Yamato, Beowulf and Force Edge. Vergil only has one style 
 called Dark slayer. This style can allow Vergil to perform lots of manoeuvres and can allow him 
 to switch between all 3 weapons. Vergils only long range weapon is his Spiral Swords, these energy 
 copies of the force edge seem pretty slow and sluggish but once you have collected lots of red 
 orbs and improve their performance you will probably be using it a lot. Vergil isnt as wild as 
 Dante; his techniques are more silent and precise (Like a samurai) and can deal lots of damage 
 to enemies. Just like Dante you can collect red orbs and Vergil will learn new techniques and abilities. 
 Sound: This is probably the best aspect of the game. This game may have the best soundtrack of 
 all video games, the music is more rock/techno type that really gets you pumped up for fights. 
 The voice casting is also incredible, unlike Devil May Cry 2 Dante will be talking a lot and will 
 be giving a lot of really cool slang dialogues, you will hear lots of voice casts from other characters 
 as well.
  
  Its safe to assume that Devil May Cry 3 is one of THE best action games out there. The disappointing 
 thing is that although adding Vergil to the game provides you with more challenges Vergil will 
 only have 2 cut scenes and for the remainder of the game you will be playing the exact same missions 
 you played as Dante and you will just fight a red version of Vergil when you would supposed to 
 be fighting Dante, Vergil basically wont have his own story.
  Naturally this game is great, but the PC dubbing of the game did introduce a couple of problems. 
 The graphics in the PC version doesnt look as good and smooth as the PS2 version and there are 
 some issues with the controls, it would probably be best to buy a joy pad for this game or you 
 will likely end up destroying your keyboard. Both PS2 and PC owners have no right to ignore this 
 game! It is one the best action game you will ever find! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kktp
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  devil may Cry the much anticipated prequel. Let me start out by sayin that this game is great, acttion 
 from start to finish, great powerups, cool styleish moves and weapons. the story line for devil may 
 cry was good along with the game cut scenes. Devil May cry is trougly an original game of its kind. the 
 special edition is athe best i the saga of the devil may cry games ever i must say. I enjoyed playin 
 this game till the end, i played it so much my thumb fiingues we hurtin after sittin in front of 
 the Television playin it for hours opon hours. My Only Problem with devil may cry is that i found 
 the game was to, to short with a game of this class i was expecting a bit more. Also when playin 
 as vergil dantes brother they should have made a seprate story insted of you havin to fight yourself 
 in certain boos battes where with dante you would have been fighthing vergil and not fightin yourself..... Good 
 job capcom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  This is a special edition of original Davil May Cry 3 game. The advantage of this game is you can 
 play as dante's evil brother virgil. So two unique charecter. Have their own unique fighting style 
 and abilities. The gameplay is same. Though this game look like pop and soul reaver, but this one 
 is smarter than pop and better than soul reaver. DMC have a stable place in action adventure game 
 with its own unique combat style and game strategy. This is a mixed of horror, puzzol solving, 
 action adventure game. Where at 1st you have to play as Dante. To stop his brother virgil who fall 
 in evil hand. There are many charectera in the game. And this is really surprizing that they keep 
 their place well and it seems that the game cant be succeded without them. the graphysics is goot 
 but not great. It seems that the ps2 may have some graphycs advantage on the pc version cause of 
 screen resolution. But the sound is great. Every moment of the game feel original just cause of 
 the sound. This is true that the dmc have its own unique fighting style. As you beat each boss, 
 you will given a new weapon that is unique and can create completely different type of combo. Every 
 mission 1st you have to select the weapon and than the fighting style. Thats great man! Practise 
 the combo. When you master the each combo, you will surprize how many combo can works on your enemy 
 and the effect of it. This is the reason why DMC is unique. The game is really fun. And Virgil have 
 many advantage over his brother Dante. This is really amazing to play as Vergil. Enjoy it..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deluderkriss
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition is everything I expected and more. I'm not going to waste your 
 time with the info you already know. Just to give players a heads up, while Vergil is indeed an 
 excellent character to utilize, the controls might be a little difficult to get used to, as Vergil 
 is MUCH different from Dante. Regardless, with Vergil, the new boss Jester, the new modes and adjusted 
 difficulty, this game is definatly one you don't want to miss, even if you have the original DMC3.
 
  This game is awsome, i repeat, awsome, i was so stuck up of slow action and rpgs but when this 
 came into my life, i played it always!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redphazon2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 27, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  DMC3: SE has to be the BEST DMC game in the series. It's a very fun, fast paced action game and 
 should not be passed up. As far as gameplay goes, there are five fighting styles to choose from. 
 Trickster, Gunslinger, Swordmaster, Quicksilver and Doppleganger, each one with it's own unique 
 moves. Sound/Music is cool and appropriate at first... then it gets repetetive after 30 minutes, 
 but thankfully it switches half way through the game. Graphics are decent some things have been 
 toned down for some reason but they still look good. Overall this game is a buy and heck at 19.99, 
 why wouldn't you buy it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumanrbr
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 26, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition is the extended version of the original Devil May Cry 3 featuring 
 the opportunity to play as Vergil, Dante's nemesis and brother. Vergil's armed with his brand-new 
 Dark Slayer fighting style, and apart from him, you'll also get to battle against one new boss, 
 experience adjusted difficulty levels, use an alternate continue system, and play in a survival-arena 
 mode called Bloody Palace.
  
  Dante heads to the PC in Devil May Cry 3 SE, filled with a number of new features and playable 
 characters. Expect a new boss, a new mode, and quirky new options. Capcom released Devil May Cry 
 back in 2001 and blew PS2 owners away with its speed, graphics and style. After a fairly weak sequel, 
 Capcom had the task of rescuing the reputation of the franchise in the third game, Devil May Cry 
 3: Dante's Awakening. By all accounts, they succeeded. On its release in 2005 for the PS2, fans 
 were once again blown away; the series had its style back. The speed of the game was better, the 
 moves cooler, the characters colder. Now, over a year later and Capcom have released Devil May 
 Cry 3: Special Edition, a final cut of the game that adds a new playable character, a new game 
 mode and an extra level of difficulty.
  
  If you're not familiar with Devil May Cry, I'll briefly explain the formula. The player controls 
 Dante, a moody half-demon warrior who makes a living killing evil creatures. Controlled from a 
 third-person viewpoint, the series plays very much like a gothic-themed Dynasty Warriors on speed, 
 and high on the cool factor. Enemies can be slashed, blasted and juggled as you cut a bloody path 
 through waves of foes using surprisingly sophisticated combos. As you progress through the game 
 you earn and unlock new abilities that allow even more outlandishly crazy moves to be pulled off. 
 While it's a fairly basic game structurally, it's pulled off with a flair and style that is lacking 
 in many hack and slash games.
  Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition screenshot 1 Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition screenshot 2 Devil 
 May Cry 3 Special Edition screenshot 4 Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition screenshot 4
  
  Now I've obviously played all of the series bar this special edition on the PS2, and when I found 
 out you could play through the original story with Vergil (Dante's twin brother) , I knew I had 
 to have it and simply could not wait until the end of September for the PS2 version. Vergil is 
 perhaps one of coolest characters in the game, but you couldn't actually play as him in Dante's 
 Awakening. With this in mind, I picked up a copy of the PC version to both enjoy the extended edition, 
 and to see how good a port it was.
  
  Before I even started playing, it was obvious that controlling the PC version of the game was going 
 to be a little bit of an issue. This game is not suited to a keyboard in any way. It was designed 
 to work around a controller with 16 buttons (including D-pad) and 2 analogue sticks, nothing else. 
 Bearing this in mind, I ordered myself a nice PS2 controller to USB converter, thinking the game 
 would be controlled just like the PS2 version. Unfortunately I was disappointed. The converter 
 did not work at all, so I had to find something else to use. I tried the trusty Xbox 360 controller 
 - it works with everything right? Wrong. Another controller that Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition 
 has problems with. Although it worked to an extent, it had a problem with the right trigger and 
 the analogue sticks were swapped around, so I had to move Dante around with the right stick. Gamers 
 experienced with this series will know this is at the very least difficult. After a day of searching 
 Google, I finally found a modified driver for the 360 controller which allowed me to swap the sticks 
 around - happy days. With a combination of this and another application that let me bind a button 
 on the controller to a key on the keyboard I was finally on my way.
  
  Ultimately, I managed to play through the whole game with both Dante and Vergil, but playing through 
 with Vergil is the real highlight of this edition. Playing as Vergil is basically the same game 
 as playing with Dante, except with different moves and fighting styles. Unlike his brother, Vergil 
 only has one style of fighting - Dark Slayer. Don't worry; this can still be levelled up using 
 experience points. Otherwise, there's a new introduction cut-scene to the game (which is actually 
 pretty damn cool) but that's about it. Game-play is fast, furious and above all fun. Whether it's 
 words, fists, guns or magical attacks, there's always a wealth of ways to finish off your foes. 
 It's not often the PC plays host to hack and slash games - particularly ones as stylish as this.
 
  Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition screenshot 5 Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition screenshot 6 Devil 
 May Cry 3 Special Edition screenshot 7 Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition screenshot 8
  
  Vergil himself has 3 weapons (Yamato, Beowulf and Force Edge) , which are all equipped at once so 
 they can be used to make devastatingly long combos. There are still plenty of abilities to learn 
 as you make your way through the game with Vergil, and I'm sure you'll find his abilities fun and 
 quite fresh. Rapid Slash, for example, sees Vergil lunge forward and slice a good chunk of the 
 area behind him, knocking back any enemies it hits. A very nice change from Dante if you're familiar 
 with the series.
  
  In addition to the standard story mode, there's now a new game mode called Bloody Palace. This 
 is basically a survival mode, and can be used with both characters after completing the game. You'll 
 gain orbs from enemies killed, just like in the story mode, and you'll be able to use these to 
 beef up your characters even more for the story mode. This is quite recommended actually, as playing 
 through the story mode again and again to improve your character can become quite repetitive. Having 
 a different mode for this is a really good feature and I'm always trying to beat my previous survival 
 score. As well as Bloody Palace, there are plenty more goodies to unlock upon completing the game 
 in a certain difficulty. There are plenty of reasons to replay the game with each character. This 
 could be for new costumes, new abilities or just through sheer enjoyment of the story.
  
  While I enjoyed hacking my way through DMC3, there were quite a few bugs I found along the way. 
 I'll start with the sound. Devil May Cry has always had an amazing Gothic soundtrack which suits 
 the fast game-play to a tee. This is the same with the PC version and there are even some added 
 tracks for Vergil's story as well. I always enjoyed the music and sound effects in this game on 
 the PS2 version, but in this PC edition I came across countless occurrences of the music completely 
 stopping, a lot of instances of a sound effect looping at twice it's normal volume, and even some 
 sound effects failing to play at all. Sometimes I found myself having to restart the game to get 
 rid of some sound bugs.
  Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition screenshot 9 Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition screenshot 10 Devil 
 May Cry 3 Special Edition screenshot 11 Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition screenshot 12
  
  The differences in quality between the PS2 and PC version also extend to the graphics. In fact, 
 there are some lighting effects on the PS2 version that are completely missing from the PC version. 
 You may think the game will look better on the PC as you can use higher resolutions, but you'd 
 be wrong. The artists and designers did an amazing job with the PS2 version, and it was all made 
 around the original resolution that the PS2 version would use. I found quite a bit of graphical 
 issues at higher PC resolutions. Don't get excited though, the resolution only goes as high as 
 1024*768.
  
  I also noticed some pretty strange frame rate problems at times. It would drop way below 30 in 
 most of the battles, which is just unforgivable for a game that looks like this. For while DMC3 
 has its moments of prettiness, the visuals are ultimately bland on the PC version. Seeing a game 
 like this drop so low in frame rate is quite soul destroying for owners of killer PC's. I experimented 
 a little and tried disabling the music and sound - the frame rate shot straight up. It seems this 
 game has some real serious problems with sound.
  Summary
  
  You have no idea how much I want to rate the game highly. It really is a fantastic game, but this 
 PC port is horribly spoiled by the fact that it is just that; a port, and a rushed one at that. 
 Finding a controller that supports it can be quite a task and playing it on a keyboard is just 
 a crime. The PS2 version is released soon so I recommend that you wait for that. It looks better, 
 it plays better, and sounds better which is bizarre. If you don't own a PS2 but still want to try 
 the game then I recommend you browse the web for compatible game controllers. You're going to need 
 a pretty good PC in order to run it as well, don't be fooled into thinking if it's a PS2 title 
 you'll be able to run it flawlessly. You'd be in for a surprise.
  
  Putting all that aside, it is definitely one of the best action hack 'n slash games made, and the 
 fact that it's available for PC users can only be a good thing. Once you've got around all the 
 bugs and compatibility issues, the game is fast, addictive and above all, fun. Don't go running 
 into it thinking it's a mindless button masher though. This is a game you'll have to become good 
 at in order to complete. If you've played Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening already, then you 
 know what to expect, but the new content is enough for even you to give it another going over. 
 If you've never played it before then there's no excuse for you not to try it. Just make the PS2 
 version your priority. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsefacex
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I've waited SOOOOO long for this game to come out for PC, and I'm STILL waiting for Resident Evil 
 4 to come to PC as well. Come on Ubisoft, hurry up! :P
  I played this game before on the PS2, but it wasn't the SE version. I'm excited to play as Vergil! 
 From the PS2 version, I remembered the great cut-scence and the unbelieveably difficulty of this 
 game! Great combos, hard enemies, fun bosses, kick-ass weapons, nice setting. If you liked the 
 first Devil May Cry you'll love this one! I was skeptical of this one a bit, because DMC2 's story 
 and gameplay was pathetic/too easy. Trust me, it's addictive!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLAZZING
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 3 Special Addition is the best game ever release.
  
  1. Fighting Style (includes; lots of Melee weapons with various type & each every one is Unique, 
 but Range Weapons are not so good without Ebony & Ivory, & Artemis) 2. The Story line is good.
 
  3. Game level system is super, because each level can play any time over & over.
  4. Graphics is also good.
  5. Music of the game is the best.
  6. Range weapons specially Spiral 
 & Kalina Anne are really bad weapons.
  7. The Style Doppelganger is not useful.
  8. Vergil Yamato combo is not so good. (Overall Vergil character & his combo ability totally bad)
 
  9. Vergil has own intro but level is the same as Dante.
  Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition is really a great game I ever seen before; especially it's combo 
 & music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 16, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  The coolest demon killer in the business is back in the 3rd installment of Devil May Cry. The game 
 stays true to its legacy and has an excellent story. The story revolves around the conflict between 
 Dante and his brother Vergil and marks the starting of his career as a demon hunter. The Special 
 Edition also allows player to assume the role of Vergil after completing the game with Dante. Vergil 
 has almost the same videos as Dante but is a lot stronger than his brother and makes you wonder 
 how did you really beat someone this strong with Dante.
  The graphics are much better in the pc edition and the rock music really suits the game and the 
 heroes personality well but the pc port has extremely bad controls. Capcom has not put any effort 
 in changing the control scheme shown even in the tutorial to accommodate the keyboard. The game 
 expects everyone to own a joystick while configuring one is really hard and playing it without 
 one is disastrous. It takes a lot of time to get used to the keys (in the keyboard) . Overall the 
 game is good with nice background music and visuals but Capcom could have worked a lot more in 
 the controls in the pc port of Devil May Cry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aovi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 11, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  Hi guys, I am Saqib a Bangladeshi college student. As my first review I will not describe much about 
 the game. Devil May Cry 3 : Dante's Awanking Special Edition is an incredible game I have ever played. The 
 game took you after 200 years after the main event. As I knew, Dante (the main charcter) is a demon 
 hunter, but he is half-demon, half-human. (In previous games) His father Sparda had sacrificied his 
 wife to bo bring the demon world in the human world. At last he brought the demon world &amp; became 
 the king of the world. But for some reasons he sealed the demon world. After 200 years Vergil, twin 
 broher of Dante, with a help of a man Arahan tried to bring the demon world back in the human world. Now 
 Dante have to stop his broher. This is beginning. If you want to know the full story you have to 
 play.
  
  Now come to gameplay section. The gameplay is not good nor is it excellent. The only phase that could 
 probably describe it is : Holy Awesome. The gameplay is unbelievable smooth &amp; fast. The game 
 is not just mashing buttonsor hammering blocks like Prince of Persia. The game is combined with 
 sowerdplay, gunplay &amp; many more. The result is unbelievableThere are six different game styles 
 in the game. Four of them is given at first &amp; you will receive more two in the game. At first 
 you will begin the game with only a sowrd &amp; dual-hand pistols. But you will gain about six kinds 
 of swords &amp; five kinds of guns. There are about 12-14 boss battles &amp; every boss has his 
 unique way to attack &amp; defanse. And the boss battle is very much challanging &amp; you will 
 never bore with it. But there are some faults in gameplay. The camera system is really worst. The 
 problem seems serious speacialy in boss battle. Besides the game control is not bad but not so good.
 
  
  Actually I am afraid to come in this section, Graphics because I have played the game in a computer 
 of 64 mb AGP but the game needs at leat 128mb AGP. However the game's graphics is good enough to 
 keep me cool. The game; s graghics is good while the movie graphics is great. Some level graphics 
 especially in the stomach of the big guy is really super. However you can except much more than 
 me.
  
  Now come to sound section. When you will start the game you will be amazed with the sound. The soundtrack 
 is so fitting in the game that without it, the game loses more than half of its appeal. The voice 
 casting is preety good &amp; Dante's is coolest. But the problem is there is much variey &amp; soon 
 you will become bore. However you will something different in the last stages
  
  At last, Title &amp; Value. As i said the game has a great story to keep you up. Its presentation 
 in every thing is superv.
  
  At last the game has a great appeal to action-advanture fans as it has good story &amp; graphics 
 and great gameplay &amp; sound effectes with superv presentation otherwhile it loses some value 
 for its worse camera &amp; sloppy control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blind_Knight
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I got a poster of Devil May Cry 3 in a Gamepro magazine (I think) , I was like: 
 Oh men, I have to buy this game !!! Then I check on the poster and it's saying: PS2 only. I DON'T 
 HAVE A PS2 !!!!! oh my god, I was so desperate... I wanted this game so badly.... Recently, I heard 
 that the game was going to be released on PC. I was so happy ! 2 days after, I had the game lol. 
 The game is awesome ! Some say the controls are just scrap. I think that the controls are just 
 hard to get used to. After about half an hour, you'll be just fine. The graphics are good. I didn't 
 play the PS2 version so I can't make a comparison. The sounds are good too and the music rocks! 
 it's one big point in DMC3. The music is especially great during the amazing boss fights, like 
 Cerberus. I have to mention that the game is really hard. Different styles and combos add to the 
 fun of the game, you can specialize in one style or try to master them all!
  
  An absolutely great game, if you have a PS2, maybe forget about the PC version, but if you're like 
 me, go for it! Dante rulz ! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Back in february, Ubi Soft announced that they would release 3 games from Capcom (Onimusha 3 [Already 
 out] Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition &amp; Resident Evil 4) , ported to the PC. Many people probably 
 thought that Ubi Soft where porting, but it&acute; s actically Capcom that ports the games, and 
 Ubi Soft that releases them. Sure they did a excellent job with porting Resident Evil 4 from the 
 GameCube to the Playstation 2. But those porting skills can&acute; t be found here. Despite being 
 released in Europe since July. The game has been released today (at the time of writing) So now 
 i can finally review DMC3 on the PC and tell the world what a aweful port this is.
  
  The game takes place before DMC1 and DMC2 (and the upcomming Devil May Cry 4) Dante has just opened 
 his shop, but quickly after the grand opening. A man comes to Dante with a message to him from 
 his brother Vergil. Soon a tower comes out of the ground and out jumps a lot of demons that Sparda 
 (Dante and Vergil&acute; s demon father. He sorta sealed the demon world long ago) . Now Dante has 
 to finish the work his father began. Sealing the demon world again. The story is better than DMC2 
 (released in 2003) , and Dante is his old self again, which means he&acute; s going to mock the demons 
 a lot)
  
  The gameplay is the typcial hack n slash mixed with RPG and shooting elements. Dante can battle 
 emenys with his sword or his guns (which has unlimited ammo, so don&acute; t even think about finding 
 ammo) . With his sword, Dante can do tons of moves. Evey move is animated very well and some deals 
 some great damage (unlike in DMC2 where special moves deal less damage than normal moves) . It&acute; s 
 also possible to select what kind of moves Dante can do. The game let&acute; s you choose for about 
 6 styles. Evey style has some special attacks that only the style has. However it&acute; s hard 
 to do all the fancy moves because of the controls. You might not think that playing DMC3 with a 
 keyboard is that big of a problem because you can use the mouse right? Well no. The controls are 
 limited to the keyboard only, and you can&acute; t even use all of the bottons (for example the 
 game won&acute; t let you use space for example) and with no mouse controls (yes that too) the game 
 becomes very hard (good thing they turned don the difficulty, because otherwise, the PC version 
 would have been impossible) Playing with a keypad that is identical to a PS2 controller sovles 
 most of the control issues, but controling with the analog sticks is still a problem (i won&acute; t 
 go into detail about that problem)
  
  The PC version is a port of Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition, released back in January in US on 
 the PS2 (and 29th September in Europe) so PC owners get&acute; s the new scenario where they can 
 play as Vergil. However it&acute; s not worth playing as Vergil. He only has one new cut-scene (shown 
 at the start) otherwise he get&acute; s to play though evey level as Dante with evey cut-scene and 
 story removed. And where you get to the point where Dante fought against Vergil in the main game. 
 You get to fight against yourself in other colors! And he only has one style, so it&acute; s not 
 worth it. And you need to complete the game before you can play as him. There&acute; s also a new 
 boss fight where you fight against Jester (a really stupid clown of some sort) , he pops up during 
 the game a couple of times, but he does the same move over and over again and again, and he dosen&acute; t 
 even deal much damage at all! so that&acute; s really bad. Other than that, you can see evey cut 
 scene, and play in turbo mode, which makes the game 20% faster (although you don&acute; t notice 
 it)
  
  Otherwise it&acute; ll take you a good 12 hours to complete the main game, and there&acute; s some 
 good serects to find so you&acute; ll keep playing this for a while (if you can overcome the controls) .
 
  
  The graphics aren&acute; t as beautiful as the PS2 version. Characters dosen&acute; t lood as good, 
 some effects look awful, and the frame rate is really terrible.
  
  Sound is a little bit better on the other hand (though is might stutter for some) Voice acting 
 is great, SFX are cool and the game&acute; s soundtrack is very good.
  
  Devil May Cry 3 for the PC has a great story, cool gameplay and many other things. It&acute; s just 
 too bad that Vergil&acute; s scenario isin&acute; t as good as we hoped for, and the messed up graphics 
 and insane controls really ruins this port. Now let&acute; s hope that Capcom does a better job 
 with porting Resident Evil 4, if it don&acute; t get canceled that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmarJ
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 10, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  Here we have it, the PC version of DMC 3. For the first time a DMC game has hit the PC and wow! what 
 a way to hit this platform. If you wanna do things in style then this is the game for ya. Extremely 
 stylish game this is. Here's the story --- Thousands of years have passed since the demon warrior 
 Sparda raised his sword against the unholy demonic world to save mankind. Following the victorious 
 battle Sparda joined the human race fathering Dante (our hero) , a half human half demon, who was as 
 devoted as his father
  in destroying the forces of evil. However, Dante was not the only son that Sparda raised. Dante's 
 twin brother Vergil was consumed by power and upheld the legacy of his sinister ancestors. Thus, 
 began this bloody brotherly fight. Now moving towards gameplay, DMC 3 provides a lot of combos,
 
  full of style 'n action. This isn't quite like GOW or POP but still the gameplay rocks. You also 
 have a number of weapons in your arsenal. A few hidden one's too. Platforming sucks in this game. 
 Certainly, games like ''God of war'' 'n ''Prine of Persia'' have a superb advantage over DMC in 
 this area. All Dante can do is some jumping and the only substane of platforming in the game is 
 a trambouline sort of thing. Leave that and get into some awesome rocking music the game provides. All 
 in all this game is memorable. I still may say the PS2 version is cooler but. But the PC guys can't 
 keep dreaming of DMC. So play this. I bet this game is going to revolutionise the world of PC action 
 adventure, where there is no 'God of War' or 'Ninja Gaiden', the only real competition being the 
 'Prince of Persia triology' which also is almost a year from it's release. Hence this game's going 
 to rule the action adventure genre in PC's for now. If u liked this review, please mail me (girls 
 specially) . Bye then. Asta la Vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehdi411766
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  After a very long period of time, the game released in Europe. Ubisoft, the publisher of the game, 
 and SourceNext, the company ported the game to PC, have enough time to make changes in game. But 
 now what can I see is a bad control. If you want to play the game with Keyboard, you can not continue 
 playing after 2 hours but if you play it with a Joy Stick, you may enjoy the game or not, because 
 of the bad configuration of joysticks.
  
  Game is amazing and strong. Characters modeling is very good but the background environments isn't 
 so well. Special moves and combos, makes the game delicious. 
  
  This game is exciting. Don't miss it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
