-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Diablo
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/diablo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 23, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.6
Critic Score: 8.9, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 8,931 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 30, 1996 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Diablo is the best game to come out in the past year, and you should own a copy. Period. 

 Every now and then a game comes along that is so simple and addictive that it affects the way 
 that video games are made forever. Games like SimCity, Populous, Dune II, and Doom all changed 
 the face of computer gaming for years to come. Now Blizzard, the company that refined the real-time 
 strategy game to near perfection, has unleashed Diablo, a title that combines the elegant simplicity 
 of an action game and the addictive storyline of an adventure game with the personalization and 
 exploratoration of an old-school RPG.  

 As with the golden RPG titles of yesteryear, Diablo's premise is very simple: Find evil things and 
 smite them repeatedly. The tricky bit comes in deciding just how to smite them, and how to do it 
 without getting seriously killed. Each of the game's three character classes - the warrior, the 
 rogue, and the sorcerer - has a different approach to combat, and different specialties that make 
 life easier overall. Super-strong and resilient, the warrior is able to use a great many weapons 
 that his colleagues can't heft and can wade into battles without fear of being struck down in the 
 first few seconds of the fight. Rogues are masters of the bow; their superior dexterity enables 
 them to strike from afar with unerring accuracy. Sorcerers depend on a variety of powerful spells 
 to destroy large numbers of enemies from a distance, keeping their frail frames far away from possible 
 harm. Each different class of character suits a particular style of play: Action fans will most 
 likely want to scrap up close with a warrior, while strategy fans will find the strike-and-move 
 tactics of the sorcerer and rogue more to their liking. It doesn't really matter - it's all very, 
 very cool.  

 Cooler still are the amazing variety of items, magic, and monsters encountered while tackling the 
 game's many quests. Like Sword of Fargoal and The Wizard's Crown (old, old, OLD, RPGs) , Diablo 
 features magic items and weapons with random powers and properties. Names like the Jade Bow of 
 the Moon denote more than just a valuable find; jade indicates an item that helps the player resist 
 all forces (fire, electricity, etc.) , and of the moon shows that the arm will increase 
 all of a character's attributes. Since all of this is random, players are constantly given the 
 promise of discovering the ultimate weapon or armor with each open chest or slain enemy. 
 Similarly, although a set number of monsters is included, only a few will be seen during each full 
 game. This means that players going back for their second or third shot at the game will very likely 
 fight opponents they haven't seen before. Talk about replay value.  

 Those who do get tired of Diablo will find a whole new realm of excitement in network and Battle. net 
 play. In both modes (all it takes to play Battle. net is an open Internet connection and a copy 
 of the game) players can work with (or against) three other players while solving quests and fighting 
 evil. Although facing off against large numbers of enemies can get pretty tricky - as a sorcerer 
 I had a horrible problem with shooting my warrior companions in the back with some particularly 
 nasty spells - this group play adds hours of play life to the title. On Battle. net be prepared 
 to run across the dregs of virtual society, from player killers who slay others for their gold, 
 to more clever sham artists who lure players into dangerous areas and then collect their items 
 after they're killed by the local beasties. Watch your back.  

 There's plenty more that's great about Diablo - it features a fantastic soundtrack reminiscent of 
 early Bauhaus albums as well as randomly determined quests and subquests - but there's no reason 
 to write about it here. Diablo is the best game to come out in the past year, and you should own 
 a copy. Period. If you like PC games, you should go out right now and experience what is likely 
 to be the clone maker for the next two years.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (187 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 3:22 pm PT
Review:  It is definitely creepier and harder, than it's sequel. Even some "death animations" are better 
 looking.
  There's not much new to tell here, because, probably, everyone knows this game. It is extremely 
 popular? And "Diablo" deserves it IMO.
  Music, enemies, cutscenes, sfx, quests (linear, but whatever?) - very well done, peoples!
  There's 
 one strange thing i can't understand - Why The LORD OF TERROR is so difficult? My mage char was 
 laying everyone in mere seconds (well, except few bosses) , but what the hell - Lord of terror - 
 you terrify me - i had to teleport about 40 times to the town to restock on potions. Was it me 
 that was that bad, or what was it? It just pissed me off trying to lay him down.
  Anyways, extremely addicted game, sometimes trying to say to myself - time to go to sleep already, 
 but NO, i have to finish this level... no, i'll go to sleep when i finish another one... wait, 
 there are this monster in another level i want to destroy, i must go deeper into the dungeon..
 
  Plus i'd really like to learn the Griswold's history deeper. Someone could create a game about 
 his legendary deeds =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivanfidelis
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:39 am PT
Review:  Simplesmente o melhor jogo no estilo, "e tambm no meu ranking geral" na minha opinio. Atmosfera 
 incrvel, excelente som, jogabilidade impressionante. Joguei "e ainda jogo s vezes" durante anos, 
 sempre encontrando itens, seja espadas, armaduras, anis, amuletos, staffs, diferentes, com combinaes 
 sem fim para equipar cada personagem. Vc joga, e joga, e nunca quer parar, parece que a possibilidade 
 de tornar mais poderoso o personagem  infinita. Quem no sonhou com um anel aumentando 20 em todos 
 atributos, ou com uma Demonspike Coat, ou uma Shirotashi, ou uma Najas Light Plate, ou uma Grandfather. 
 Estou escrevendo e a vontade de jogar aumentando =)
  E no posso deixar de dizer que o toque do meu celular para mensagens  a fala do Sorceror quando 
 encontra a Arcanes Valor :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pk86
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  What could possibly be more scary than facing the evil himself? Diablo brings out one of the most 
 glorious quest ever made: Defeat the Dark Lord.
  This game was the beginning of the classic RPG games. With storyfull quests and all kind of items, 
 it brings hours of pure fun. It's been almost 13 years and it's being still played by a lot of 
 nostalgic gamers. The multiplayer mode brings you the possibility to join other friends for facing 
 the darkest and meaniest evils ever known. As long as you go deeper getting your own way to hell, 
 you have to face more and more powerful monsters. You reach a point where you find yourself with 
 no way to advance but getting more and more level, but; it doesn't matter how strong you become, 
 it's never enough (I can tell you) . 
  Diablo was, is and it will always be the best RPG game ever made, PERIOD.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wreckem406
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard took the hack/slash genre up a notch or two with its creative and always fun to play Diablo. 
 In this game you control one of three main classes in a journey through a monastery that acts itself 
 as a gate into hell. Whether you choose the Warrior, Wizard, or Rogue, the journey ends up basically 
 the same with a toe to toe showdown with Diablo, lord of hell himself.
  
  Diablo, though outdated by today's standards most definitely holds up well and it's easy to see 
 why this game started a franchise that is working on a wildly rumored second sequel, the first 
 having done quite well for itself.
  
  It features a hack and slash style of combat, simply running around the room clicking one of two 
 mouse buttons on the enemy monster and hoping that they drop before you do. The ability to assign 
 one move to one mouse button and another move to the second really keeps this game simple, yet 
 entertaining. As a warrior you can go through with just your basic physical attack, or you can 
 choose to play the wizard and force yourself to learn a few hotkeys so as to fully showcase your 
 utility as a magic-caster.
  
  The main hub for the game is a small town called Tristram, with about six active inhabitants, but 
 it still manages to feel lively enough to keep you entertained. These villagers give you quests 
 asking you to descend into the monastery to either do something beneficial to the village, grab 
 an ancient relic, and a few other clichd reasons. However a cool feature means that out of the 
 pool of available quests you'll only see X amount on each play through. This inspires the gamer 
 to replay the game a second and possibly third time, not only to experience the other classes but 
 also to fully experience the game itself.
  
  The audio and visuals of the game truly add a lot to the experience and bring the player into this 
 war torn tragedy ridden world. The feel of the game while a little dark at times, is fitting and 
 you'll never feel really out of place or ripped from the atmosphere the game strives to create 
 and maintain.
  
  Diablo is a classic, and anybody who owns a PC should have at least given it a try by this point. 
 If for some reason you haven't I'd highly recommend you do so now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Some games are not recognized and underestimated by the time they are released, but with the passing 
 of the years the pure artistry and the titans clash remain and are praised. Diablo is a characteristic 
 example.
  
  The gameplay of Diablo is amazing, and the stuff you can collect and use are also innovative, while 
 they keep the feeling of an older and wiser game. You can select what you will become in order 
 to strke against evil, where magic and power are combined for the purpose. There are many quests 
 and subquests to particpate in. There are also interesting monsters to fight which are well-designed, 
 which come along with many different ways to fight them off.
  
  Furthermore, if you complete the game and don't want to play once again, you will find the network 
 play interesting. There are many modes all of whom are played in well-designed virtual environments. 
 And these environments are made by a very good graphics machine which provides the game many amazing 
 details which are noticeable from the first time you play.
  
  Diablo is not only the best role-playing game up until now, but it is also into the top-10 of the 
 best games of PC ever, if not the first of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sequekhan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm an old hand at RPGs. If I had to name the game that I liked most out of all - the one that 
 I keep coming back to for the sheer pleasure of playing - then Diablo would equal at first place 
 (with a few others) .
  
  High praise for a game whose graphics today might be considered a little pixellated, but not without 
 good reason.
  
  Diablo is the story of a nameless hero on a quest to discover the heart of the evil that disturbs 
 the small town of Tristram, in a medieval world of sword and sorcery. The heart of the evil, unbeknown 
 to our protagonist and various NPCs, is none other than Diablo, one of the three Prime Evils of 
 hell, awakening in an ancient labyrinth, deep within the monastery.
  
  The game follows a typical hack and slash whereby actions are performed at the click of the mouse, 
 with the right mouse button assigned to whatever skill or spell you wish. Movement speed is constant 
 throughout - making enemy movements (notably, the Butcher) all the more scary. The character you 
 choose (Warrior, Rogue, Sorcerer) upgrades his/her sprite when you equip better armour. Enemies 
 use tactics against you, such as surrounding you before moving in, and ranged attackers run away 
 when you get too close. There is an excellent variation of monsters too, including numerous unique 
 monsters with their own minions and special abilities. Unique weapons and armours abound too - 
 made even better by their frequency, i. e. they aren't too difficult to get. There is a nice selection 
 of side quests that help give the game volume as well, easy and not so easy. And to top it off 
 there are three difficulty levels - Normal, Nightmare, and Hell. Without the proper gear, players 
 will find Hell easily lives up to its namesake.
  
  The music is something else entirely. It creates the mood, permeates your very being, sends shivers 
 through your body. The louder the better. Talking to characters is made superbly realistic by the 
 emotion behind their words - especially conversations with the witch. The script that flows up 
 the screen as the NPCs speak mirrors this, with rich, Gothic lettering.
  
  If you're a fan of levelling up your hero, slaying hordes of foul monsters, but also not afraid 
 to use your head, then Diablo is for you. There is much about this game that its successor, Diablo 
 II, fails to capture. Atmosphere, music, and the fear factor, are three such aspects. If the new 
 games of today fail to excite you, or they're all just not for you, then try Diablo. It's horribly 
 addictive stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaiowasdeath
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Simply, it is the best :) Totally addicting and brilliant story. When I first played it, it astonished 
 me and took my breath away. I might try to find that cd and install it again.
  
  This game had the best cinematics of its rime and had a different way of storytelling. Maybe it 
 was a little bit one sided or one single long story line but I don't think it would be wise to 
 state such comments after getting a little spoiled and served with much different sorts of games. 
 I mean, it is not appropriate to judge the game now. I just wanted to show my feelings for this. 
 Lots of game hours and I finished every mode with every single sort of character with different 
 settings. I think that should be more than enough.
  
  If it was 8-10 years ago I would advise it for everyone (although I did then) . I played Diablo 
 2 and the Lord of Destruction expansion pack. Of course this isn't about it but I can't do anything 
 but pray that Diablo 3 comes asap so that I can write a review about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torsive
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  THE PAST
  
  In its time it was a highly addictive game. The atmospheric music, gothic-horror scenery, smoothly 
 animated characters and monsters, the simple gameplay mechanics; it all contributed to the engrossing 
 nature of Diablo. Everything about it melded into a great experience. 
  
  Back in its heyday the multiplayer side was great. It was easily accessible and unique, allowing 
 new players to join without issues, and it helped to keep old players interested. Although illegitimate 
 items were abundant due to 'duping', it was still a blast to join a party of three other players 
 and descend to the lowest dungeon where Diablo awaited release (or a party to teleport into his 
 cell) .
  
  
  THE PRESENT
  
  Nowadays it has been surpassed in most ways by similar games. But a few things still stand out: 
 the random item generation system and the different dungeon environments. The pace with respect 
 to more modern RPGs is quite slow, and the simplicity of NPC interactions and gaming style has 
 not aged well with time - providing now what is only a shallow experience.
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Although it is unfair for me to compare it to present games, it should be a compliment 
 as it has spawned the better action RPG titles that we play today. The only reason to play it now 
 is for nostalgia's sake or for the original story line. A great game for collectors to purchase, 
 but interested gamers new to the series should look into its successor Diablo II, or await the 
 third incarnation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GalenMyra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  This game really had revolutionary gameplay, its is a very addictive Action-RPG where you collect 
 new weapons and spells and advance through the levels but I probably dont need to further explain 
 the hack-n-slash concept since there are countless diabo clones today.
  
  There are no dialogues in this game and there are no FMVs or cut-scenes, the story is told at very 
 few occasions in the game either by a certain character in town named 'Cain' or when the player 
 read books in the dungeon. But it is not the amount of story/dialogue a player has to plow through 
 that makes a game good, its the quality of the story.
  
  A good part of the story is actually found in the manual, there are several pages of story there 
 which makes the player already familiar with the world when you start playing.
  
  The story takes place in the mortal world on the edge to the realm ruled by forces of Hell. I dont 
 want to give away any part of the story but this is not the standard cliche-cheesy story *cough* 
 Final *cough* Fantasy.
  
  Blizzard has truly succeeded in creating a dark and gothic medieval world. The music, the mood, 
 the language, the setting, it all contributes to the immersive atmosphere of the game. Also, the 
 characters and the monsters in this game are very well made and not cartoonish like they are on 
 many other games (like Diablo II) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  This is the game that paved the path for me onto hardcore gaming. The best RPG ever is a must for 
 any player who is a fan of RPGs or is new to RPGs. What is more unique about the game is it's unique 
 story. The story that inspired about 3 dozens of books and a whole dictionary of Diablo.
  
  The game starts of from the middle of an untold story. The story goes that a war had erupted between 
 Heaven and Hell known as the Great War. The forces of heaven were lead by Archangel Tyreal while 
 the forces of Hell were divided amongst 3 prime evils - The 3 brothers - Mephisto, the lord of 
 hatred, Baal, the lord of destruction and Diablo, the lord of Terror. To assist them were present 
 4 lesser evils - Andariel, Witch Queen and Maiden of Anguish, Duriel, lord of pain, Belial, lord 
 of deceipt and Azmodan, lord of Jealousy. The great war wasn't producing any result until the dawn 
 of man. Both heaven and hell knew that it would be man's choice that would tilt the balance of 
 the war. So slowly this war between good and evil reached man. It was known as the Sin War. During 
 the Sin War, the Great War had come to a standstill. However, the 3 prime evils had caught hold 
 of an angel - Izhual, whom they had corrupted and had come to know that using three stones/crystals 
 they could become even more powerful than now. However it was present on the Earth and scattered 
 all over. On the other hand the 4 lesser evils thought that the 3 primes had got frightened and 
 was resenting the war. So they fought a humongous war with them and banished them from hell. All 
 of them were weak when they surfaced on the earth except Baal. So Mephisto secretly creeped into 
 the temple of light, a temple of a religious cult called the Zakarum, where one of the crystal 
 were kept. He poisoned the mind of the head priest Sankakour, and took over his body and then embedded 
 the stone within him. He then realized that the stone would also bind him to the body and he would 
 have to stay in the body for some time to allow it to work. Diablo found the location of another 
 crystal and went to the town of Tristram, where he first corrupted the King and then his son and 
 took over the latter's body and pierced his body with the stone. The game starts from here where 
 the hero returns to Tristram to find it corrupted by the denizens of Diablo. He must battle his 
 way down the church to the catacombs to fight Diablo.
  
  You can choose from amongst 3 characters - Warrior, the melee hero, Rogue, the ranged hero (though 
 she's a lady) , and Socreror, the magician guy. However, all the skills of anybody can be learnt 
 by the others. What differs is the amount of point distribution during level ups. A wide variety 
 of weapons are available for the characters. NPCs are available for various purposes. One of them 
 - Cain will make a reappearance in the sequel as a good guy, while another NPC - Griswold, the 
 blacksmith will also return but as a bad guy.
  
  Graphics are OK for Diablo 1 when you compare it to Diablo 2, yet the gameplay makes up for the 
 graphics. Also the music is pretty creepy.
  
  By the end of the game, that is when we reach Diablo, he will have completed the corruption of 
 the prince and will fight you in his full monsterous form. However, the stones also provided another 
 side-effect for getting all that power. Now they could be killed even by a human (Previously only 
 Tyreal could kill them) . Finally, it is shown that the hero plucks the soulstone, as it is now 
 called, from Diablo'sdead body and pierces it into his own head (I dunno why? It's said he tried 
 to contain Diablo within himself. But well that turned out to be a very bad idea) . That is where 
 the game ends and the second franchisee, Diablo 2 picks it up. It also deals with what happened 
 to Baal, Mephisto and the other 4 lesser evils.
  
  So if you are interested in some good story with a mind-blowing gameplay, Diablo is the game for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok so maybe this wasn't the original Hack and Slash adventure but damn it was good. It had some 
 great characters and some awesome quests to undertake.
  
  The random levels made replayability a must in this game. While there was not much thinking to 
 this game you always had to be aware of manna and health make sure you had enough potions to survive 
 until you could get back into town.
  
  Graphically today it doesn't stand up but that being said it isn't a bad looking game.
  
  It 
 always felt like you should play just one more level, to see if you could level up or find some 
 more great loot.
  
  Some minor gripes include the fact that there were very few opportunities to get back to town directly 
 and this meant that if you forgot to stock up on town portals, you would spend the next 10 minutes 
 looking at loading screens.
  Additional to this not every quest was in every game you played while this did enhance replayability 
 it meant that if you knew that you would get a great peace of loot for completing a quest then 
 it never eventuated, you could be quite disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 10
  Sounds: 10
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 9
  Actual score: 9.2
  
  As technology improves from year to year it seems that video games are starting to get more complex 
 as it feels that the impediment of technology must match the styles of game play. It's easy to 
 take a look at some of the recent genres like the flight simulators and RPGs. In the late 80s and 
 early 90s RPGs are starting to become the hobby for the elite where either you played the traditional 
 pen and paper kind and adapt the video game realm or simply wither and die with all the myriad 
 of choices.
  
  An example of this is 1992's Darklands where the character creation, even though it's extremely 
 thorough it can be tremendously imitating to those who want to experience an RPG video game. On 
 the flipside you have 1990's Ultima VI where it really made things easier for the player to customise 
 their characters or 1994's Al-Qadim: The Genie's Curse where it's a pick-up-and-play style of game 
 play. Yet in 1996 a company who is already well known for their Warcraft series presents the most 
 simplistic yet very entertaining RPG to date where it suits the experienced and neophytes and as 
 a result became one of the biggest selling names in history; I'm talking about the Lord of Terror, 
 Diablo.
  
  The premise behind Diablo surrounds a small and almost forgotten town of Tristram as hosted deep 
 within their own cathedral is a demon weakened by the soulstone which was infused by an once legendry 
 group of sorcerers called The Order of the Horadrim. This demon, hailed directly from Hell as one 
 of the three prime evils (the other two was Baal and Mephisto) was exiled by the four lesser of 
 the greater evils Duriel, Andariel, Belial and Azmodan due to a great conflict hence banished to 
 the realms of man. Raged by their failures all three caused havoc to those who appose them yet 
 eventually all were captured; Baal and Mephisto captured in the Far East whilst Diablo finally 
 imprison deep within the cathedral's catacombs in Tristram. Considering the present's day Horadrim 
 is nothing more than storytelling to would-be-heroes Diablo slowly regaining power and seeking 
 a host for his next 'visit'
  
  Diablo's rise to fame (figure of speaking) was due to its ease of controls. Never before was the 
 interface so easily manipulated that can be easily learnt in a matter of minutes. Naturally it 
 was this that made Diablo the master of 'click click click' the left mouse button to attack and 
 right click for casting spells. The player initially has a choice between three heroes being the 
 Sorcerer, Warrior and Archer hence tailored to all players alike. Each of the characters can utilise 
 each other skills however it's the time factor when any of the skills are put into action (e. g. 
 the sorcerer casting ability is the fastest whilst the warrior's melee ability is the strongest 
 and so forth) .
  
  All the graphical details in Diablo are extremely detailed and do place an emphasis on that ominous 
 feeling when treading deeper in the bowls of the Earth. All of the foes animations are smooth, 
 the decaying walls and the glowing lava flows and so forth brings atmosphere to this well constructed 
 game. All the torches cast eerie shadows and even the main characters are well designed with no 
 clipping issues at all considering that the backdrops are 2D they are all beautifully drawn. Allowing 
 that the vast majority of big budgeted games uses FMV cut scenes, Diablo's intermissions, even 
 though does not use 'real footage' are exceptionally well constructed and if you view the game's 
 files there are even missing footage that wasn't placed in the game (e. g. the arrival of the Butcher) .
 
  
  Compliments the graphics are the sounds in Diablo. Perfectly constructed musical scores that fabricate 
 an uncanny ability to cause dread and fear to any players as you can hear the screeches and that 
 occasional cynical laughter makes you think twice about your next move. In addition the voice acting 
 from the entire group of NPCs are perfectly formulate and emotions are well performed, especially 
 when Griswold the Blacksmith describing that 'huge bloated black mushroom' will guarantee to place 
 a smile on your face. However I'm not sure if it's deliberate that the entire cast sounds like 
 they hailed from Scotland but nevertheless they are all entertaining to say the least (question: 
 does Decker Cain sounds like Sean Connery) .
  
  Diablo has a clever way of drawing people in by the way of randomly dropped magical items and loot. 
 Basing on some formulaic concepts, there is a chance that you'll score a unique and wonderful magical 
 item that can easily cause havoc among the fiends of Hell. This definitely entices the player to 
 fool around some more to grab that lucky break. In addition Diablo has three levels of difficulty 
 and the higher the difficulty, the better the items. Continuing on with this, Diablo is probably 
 one of the first action RPGs that has a random dungeon and quest generator therefore it's fairly 
 rare that you'll have the same experience when playing it again (e. g. one game could have the Lachdanan 
 mission yet in another the player could have experienced the Warrior of Blood quest) .
  
  But its strength is also its weakness  because of the random factor there will be times that the 
 game can be over-balanced tipping the scales to the fiends as your equipment will not suit well. 
 This happened to me a couple of times especially when playing the mage as when I finally confronted 
 the Lord of Terror himself I really had no offensive spells hence using the 1st level spell fire 
 bolt and my only escape spell was phase. As you can imagine it was a SoB battle to say the least. 
 In addition, during the later levels, Diablo can feel really repetitive and wishing that there 
 is more than just a dungeon crawl.
  
  To those who despise reading manuals I highly suggest to glance at Diablo's rule book. Not only 
 it explains the mechanics of the game, there's an impressive section on the history of the greater 
 evils and how it became about the time they were exiled. Extremely well written and easy to digest 
 it's definitely something to take a look at.
  
  Once the single player has been exhausted it's certainly not the end of the game. Blizzard Entertainment, 
 the masters of online gaming, learned that considering the internet is the way of the future (take 
 a look at the mega success of Quake) , Blizzard created 'Battlenet' where players from all parts 
 of the world can join in together in a co-op mode through the single player game alternatively 
 simply clobber the hell out of each other (and collect the loot in the process) . This added intense 
 value as Battlenet is free to play and as a side note, it's because of Diablo was my very first 
 experience for online gaming.
  
  Diablo for me was the sole reason I started playing video games again. During the early 90s (known 
 as the 16bit era) games were getting painfully hard and daunting due to those 100 page tomes. Obviously 
 there's nothing wrong with that yet at times you want to delve straight into a game without any 
 real preparation. Diablo had made this idea a fact with its simplistic controls, addictive game 
 play and considering the 'hot topic' of belting against demons and devils, Blizzard took the bull 
 by its horns and made a masterpiece; add this to the free-to-play online Battlenet and you'll have 
 a sure winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EACHNAMEISTAKEN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  The first thing modern PC gamers will notice about Diablo is that it looks terrible compared to 
 newer games. Watching a 30 second clip of the game would make it seem really boring. It isn't even 
 very deep. It's a very simple game that puts very simple concepts together to make an incredibly 
 fun and addicting experience. As a warrior, you click what you want dead and your character will 
 hit it until it dies. there are 16 levels of randomly generated dungeon filled with randomly generated 
 monsters that drop randomly generated items with randomly generated attributes. It's the games 
 randomness which makes it infinitely re-playable, the more you play, the higher you level, the 
 better your equipment gets. The game offers 3 character classes to add to the replay value. The 
 best part is the co-op. You can go online with a friend and take on Diablo together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bxela
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Diablo is an extremely addictive game, sadly I feel it was cut a little short. After picking it 
 up rather cheap, I had finished it within the span of 2 days and immediately proceeded to begin 
 another character.
  
  I expect that the game's audio and visual detail was very modern at the time, even now I feel that 
 they're pretty well done. The game has a simple story that's easy to follow and set the minimal 
 standard for all RPGs. 
  
  It's simplicity makes the learning curve near instant and it's simple charm make this game an instant 
 classic and a must-have for any PC gamer. .
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Diablo is a really old game and loading it on to your PC these days won't really keep you playing 
 for very long. Unless you have a burning desire or a friend has somehow challenged your gaming 
 skill, then playing Diablo for the first time will be a let down.
  
  It runs fast enough and the adventures aren't half bad at all. I can see why it was popular when 
 it was released. It must have caused quite a fuss with its sound effects and atmospheric graphics.
 
  
  But compared to today RPGs, where you have the given option to choose your storyline somewhat I 
 found that Diablo didn't really pull any new levers for me. Single player is a bit secluded too, 
 as most games on this graphical par these days have the option of multiplayer worlds. I wouldm't 
 advise buying this for a bargain price, I would wait till you and some mates have time to go through 
 the game one night for a good fun session, because otherwise it will only bore you.
  
  If you are looking for something simular I would suggest Bulurs Gate or Runescape for the same 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of Diablo 2 back in the day, but one thing that's always bothered me is that I 
 never played through the original Diablo! So I finally decided to buy it and to be honest I was 
 very impressed considering how old it is.
  
  One thing I'll say is that if I'd played it "back in the day", I would probably be giving it a 
 10. I can imagine the impact that this game had on video games back in the day. And even playing 
 it in this day and age, the gameplay still holds up well. Playing the game really made me see how 
 much Diablo 2 improved on the first one.
  
  The gameplay is pretty similar to D2 - you'll be doing alot of dungeon crawling and killing alot 
 of enemies, levelling up and finding new armor and weapons along the way. The game basically has 
 you starting in a town, and there is a church that you must enter and descend its floors to the 
 very bottom. Along the way, you'll discover many things and fight alot of interesting enemies. 
 The fact that you spend the entire game simply descending the floors of a single tower isn't quite 
 as interesting as travelling across an entire world like in D2, but the floors are varied enough 
 so that there is a variety in the enemies that you are fighting.
  
  The one flaw that just doesn't hold up by todays standards is the fact that you can't run. This 
 doesn't seem like a problem at first glance, but when you've got 10 enemies attacking you with 
 ranged attacks, and you try to chase one enemy down to attack it, but that enemy walks away from 
 you at the EXACT same speed that you walk (i. e. YOU CAN'T CATCH UP TO IT!) , WHILE you are under 
 attack from 9 other ranged enemies... it can be pretty annoying.
  
  In the end, Diablo is a really fun game. It took me 11 hours to play through the entire game, and 
 there are 3 classes to play as, plus an online component, so you'll definiteyl get bang for your 
 buck (considering you can find the game for about 5-10 dollars on ebay these days) . While the game 
 has shown some age over the years, there is no denying that Diablo is a classic and that the gameplay 
 still holds up fairly well even 12 years after originally released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgNerd321
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Diablo is a classic that even through all these years, has shown no wear and tear on its popularity. 
 Still to this date there are still plenty of people playing this game on battle. net with other 
 adventurers.
  
  The story is the common good vs. evil setting. Diablo, prince of hell, has kidnapped King Leoric's 
 son and established a huge labyrinth beneath the Cathedral in the town of Tristam. You, the adventurer, must 
 descent into the labyrinth and defeat the lord of terror.
  
  At the start you must choose between three distinct character classes. The warrior, rogue, or sorcerer. 
 Each class has many distinct qualities that set them apart from the other classes. Warriors go 
 toe to toe with enemies to vanquish them with melee attacks, rogues waste opponents from a distance 
 with their skill with the bow, and sorcerers pummel foes with powerful magic attacks.
  
  Almost everything in Diablo is random. From the items you obtain, to monster locations, where chests 
 are, the layout of the dungeon and much more.
  
  In Diablo the labyrinth you venture into is made up of sixteen levels. As you go deeper, the type 
 of dungeon changes and also the difficulty of monsters you fight takes a huge increase. The first 
 few levels are in the cathedral, the next are in the catacombs, next caves, and for the last three 
 hell, where you face Diablo himself.
  
  Overall Diablo is a challenging and enjoyable game you will spend many hours finding new items 
 or completing the numerous quests it has to offer. Enjoy!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgmx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Diablo is possibly the best RPG ever made. Diablo changed the way RPGs are all-together. Diablo 
 was the first Battle. net game ever released, there are four downisdes to Diablo however: there 
 is no stat tracking, Blizzard's anti-hack patches are being bypassed, Diablo players can't go in 
 private channels, and not many people play Diablo anymore. Diablo revolutionized the RPG genre 
 and games in general. In today's society, most games use a Battle. net-life  
 Opponent Network [/URL] [including SWAT 3 lobbies] , Westwood Online, GameSpy [Star Trek Armada 2, 
 Dawn of War, and Strifeshadow only] , World Opponent Network 2, etc.) . Diablo has a great deal of 
 action as well, the game has a lot of blood and gore, similar to the upcoming game Conquest II 
 by  Entertainment [/URL] . Hackers are a big problem with 
 the game, even non-hackers that duplicate items, even with Blizzard's anti-hacks and their banning 
 of hackers, hacking still continues by over 85% of the players, however the good players are all 
 legit. Diablo is nothing without Battle. net, if Battle. net didn't exist, the game would have been 
 forgotten within a week of its release (if it would have ever become popular) . The SS Free gives 
 Diablo a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KidKombo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  Man... Diablo. What can you say about a game that took over about 2-3 years of your life? The amazing 
 thing upon first play was that i could not believe how overrated it was..."WTF?! You just run around 
 and left click on the monsters to attack? what a deep battle system..." How very naive i was.
 
  
  Graphics 8/10: decent 2D graphics and animation for its time back in 1995. sometimes verging on 
 great. but definitely the graphics in Diablo served their purpose adequately, but were not jaw 
 dropping. 
  
  Sound 9.5/10: wow. every single time i hear the theme of the town of tristram, it never fails to 
 chill me to the bone. im giving the 9.5 based solely on that music. uh huh its that amazing. the 
 great sound effects as you carve your way through all 16 dungeon levels certainly add to the dark 
 atmosphere. there isnt any music when you travel underground, but you dont miss it. 
  
  Gameplay 10/10: To this day, i simply cannot work out what is so incredibly addictive about running 
 around and clicking on thousands of monsters. its one of the most basic gameplay designs ive ever 
 seen. but it hides a gameplay so addictive. the acquisition of the myriad of items is a huge part 
 of the appeal; you wanted to get down to the lower levels because you couldnt wait to see what 
 cool high powered items you could find. and seeing an item drop with that gold writing was enough 
 to get a half wood (you diablo nuts know what im talking bout...) . this of course indicated you 
 had found one of the elusive unque items, some of which were so freakin rare ive still never acquired 
 a couple, even after years of play. To this day, diablo is probably the most addictive game ive 
 ever played, and the number of cheap mouses i went through because of the insane amount of machine 
 gun-like left clicking is testament to its brilliant gameplay. 
  
  Replayability 100000/10: i will probably be playing diablo when im 50. nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsedai
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I almost felt guilty in my cubicle playing Diablo. Almost....
  
  Many people call this game Diablo I but I know its just "Diablo". The graphics were alright but 
 the music and the sound effects, simply powerful. The controls were little more than clicking repeatedly 
 with your mouse. But, you were killing the bad guys by the thousands. Each of the classes were 
 fun to play and I ran though dungeon after dungeon. 
  
  My first stage boss was downright scary and he kicked my butt. No, I didn't give up but started 
 the Diablo level grinding that so many people take for granted these days. It was so much sweeter 
 when I took him down but i didn't suspect there would be a sequel. 
  
  Before these MMORPG games were out, there was Diablo. I strongly recommend adding this game to 
 your collection and install it. Play it soon and be sure to finish it. Then you will come to a 
 full appreciation of what came before Everquest et al. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  After so many years Diablo still holds it's title gained back in 1996 as one of the worlds greatest 
 dark hack n' slash RPG adventure game.
  
  Where is graphics have dated and arent worth much. Still, does not hold me or any diehard Diablo 
 fans from playing it over and over and over again.
  
  After so many years and so many RPG game titles that do look alot better then this, i still would 
 rather play this over again for its Dark Atmosphere.
  
  Gameplay could not be any more simpler then a few clicks. Still, there is some moments where randomly 
 clicking just isin't going to cut it. There is some strategy involved. 
  
  The sound and music can still send shivers down your spine. Nothing is more satifying then slaying 
 a beast and hearing it cry in agony or go "Blehahyimf" or the sound of gold being dropped.
  
  The story, where straight forward. Still can suck you in. Not alot of games do have a very 
 great story behind it. This one for me, still has the same effect it had on me back in 1996. 
 
  
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Dont know what else to say, other then that this game is still among the few as 'one of the greatest 
 PC titles ever'. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamefreak
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Diablo 1 is one of the most amazing rpg ever created, it is so addicting that in this year the 
 game is still fun, I mean so many years have passed but still the game manages to stay fun and 
 good, many people still like it because of the huge array of items in it and the quests and the 
 weapons and the classes they put are simply all that is needed to make a great rpg, the multiplayer 
 is one of the best multiplayers I have played yet, since maybe wow teaming up and fighting together 
 is what makes the game all that much more exciting and great, knowing that you and your friends 
 are making a plan helping each other fight the hordes of oncoming demons, is what makes the game 
 what it is this year, my say is that Diablo 1 will always be remembered, and it will never be forgotten, 
 because even today people know it as the best role-playing game, and it will stay that way forever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krondor13
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Diablo was released on Nov, 30, 1996 and soon became one of the greatest RPG of its time. The game 
 was extremely addicting and repayable due to the dynamic dungeons and vast customizable characters. 
 Diablo has three main characters the Rouge, Sorcerer, and fighter. They each have hundreds of armor 
 sets, weapons and spells. The stage bosses were extremely different and unique like the Butcher 
 who was comprised of multiple pieces of flesh and carried a cleaver that he used to hack people 
 apart. There are three components that I believe make this game very addicting. 
  
  The first would be the basic idea of the kill and loot aspect. Through the game you would have 
 to kill creatures and obtain weapons, spell books, and armor from their bodies. The items could 
 either be regular, magical or rare and allow your character to level up and grow to an almost unlimited 
 level. 
  
  The second aspect would be the spells, which at times would be hard to find but when you do the 
 spells were devastating. The spells like the character could be leveled up but the spells leveled 
 through reading books instead of experience. The spells could be used by strategically firing them 
 behind a jail cell or around a corner. The most entertaining spell for me was the firewall which 
 you could use to ignite the entire room devastating all creatures in it. 
  
  Besides these parts of the game I believe there is one thing that above all places Diablo at the 
 top. This part of the game would be the addition of multiplayer. Most if not all role playing games 
 during this time were comprised of single player alone, which was fun but halted the re-playability 
 of the game. The addition of multiplayer allowed people to form clans and the PVP allowed characters 
 to fight vast battles over the internet. 
  
  These three I believe are the main bullet points of the game, but in order you really understand 
 how good this game is you have to play it for yourself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleStilkey
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun to play especially online with your friends or anyone across the world and 
 play side by side. The one problem is, is that the game starts off a little slow. Basically you 
 are in a dungeon for awhile but then it changes to a better environment and start to get better. 
 You get to kill a bunch of guys and take what they drop. You level up and can make your guy get 
 stronger which will allow him/ her to carry better weapons and armor. You can kill your team mates 
 online (FUN!) You can play with anyone on Battle. net and beat the whole game together. One thing 
 you can't do in this is run. The game could have been a little better at start but other then that 
 I would recommend this game to anyone. If you have a friend that plays this then play with him. 
 Playing together is always fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Diablo was a masterpeice of an old school dungeon run. It allowed you to pick between a Warrior, 
 Rogue or Sorcerer. The class you picked had a big influence on the way the game had to be played 
 as each class played out very differently. The visuals are dark and gothic and along with the soundtrack 
 (most notably the famous Tristram theme) immerse the player right into this gothic environment.
 
  
  Diablo contained sixteen levels (four levels of four types) that would generate randomly each time 
 you played a new game, adding massive replayability potential. Characters would level up from 1 
 through to 50 throughout their adventures on Normal, Nightmare and Hell difficulty.
  Characters could be equipped with a myriad of items that could be purchased in town or more often 
 than not looted from the dungeons underneath it. Just trying to collect an item you were after 
 could give you a bad case of 'just one more turn' which could have a player sitting on this game 
 for hours on end. 
  
  Multiplayer is where this game shines. By teaming up with players of another class the gameplay 
 would always vary based upon the classes that were involved in a fight and the attitude of the 
 players. While an outstanding concept, Diablo did have several problems with people using trainers 
 on Battle. net as well as exploiting a duping bug, that pretty much destroyed any form of online 
 public trading of equipment. However with a bunch of trusted friends or other legitimate online 
 players, the gameplay could rival and surpass most other titles of it's time.
  
  Available now at bargain prices, this title is one that any collector should not pass up that still 
 has a mouse that goes 'click'. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  In fact it's the first RPG I ever played and so it seems to me that every following games follow 
 the formula of Diablo. But I am sure many other players agree that this game has in it many features 
 that a successful RPG will resembles.
  
  At first glance, it offers 3 classes of characters for you to choose, which are quite different 
 from each other but still balanced in power. Although some RPG lately offers tens of classes, all 
 of these still can be classify into 3 categories only, that is: Warrior, Rogue and Mage. Diablo 
 feature each class very well with different sets of skills and item, hence different ways to survive 
 and win the battle.
  
  Secondly, the world in the game includes two main area: dungeon and town. Dungeon is where you 
 smite the evil, gain experience and stuff. Town is where you can find equipments, supplies from 
 some merchants, and get quest from some NPC. I have never seen a RPG structuring its world differently 
 though they may have many towns and many dungeons.
  
  Thirdly, t hough monsters in the game are quite plenty and various, they still can be categorized 
 buy their resilience. Each type of monsters have its resistance which decides how you have to deal 
 with them. Bosses and unique monsters don't only have a lot of hit point but also resist to an 
 insane numbers of attack types. So you will have to figure out their weakness in hope of beating 
 them.
  
  One more point is the experience system. You gain xp when defeating monsters. The higher level 
 you are, the more xp you need to level up. 
  
  Of course above features can be found in almost any RPG. But Diablo executes them so well that 
 you can consider it a classical RPG for all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KalDurenik
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  I still remember when i was younger and played this, i had so much fun so many hours spend trying 
 to level my character to make him the best of the best!
  So after talking with my friends for a while i decided to return. This game is very old-school 
 very! But then again its THE hack and slash game.
  
  If you like pure hack and slash, older art, good quality for its age and the most important! you 
 like to have fun! Then this is the game for you! Its easy to learn, easy to master and it can bring 
 you many hours of fun! Even more if you play with friends!
  
  Now note that i suggest you try to stick to friends because blizzard have left Diablo out and there 
 for there is alot of cheaters on battle. net... But nothing is more fun playing with your friends 
 and then fight a nice pvp battle to see who is strongest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VHRS05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  Choosing different characters in Diablo with different moves and skill tree to level up, the role 
 playing adventure game just reached quite a popularity over gamers. Although gameplay graphics 
 are not that refined yet compared to the newer game releases, Diablo compensates by giving gamers 
 a different experience in demon slaying. With tons of caves and labyrinths to explore, each map 
 giving thrills and anxiety in anticipation of the next level. As your chosen character levels up, 
 you gain different spells or abilities as well as different auras that will aid you in your quest 
 in slaying Diablo and his brothers. The game also involves a bit of strategy for you need to choose 
 carefully what skills to take and level up; what weapons and armors to choose and carefully interacting 
 with the different characters that you meet. Cinematics are also good and a bit interesting as 
 you unravel a twist on an ending that you will never expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGamer1215
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good for most of the '' older generation'' of gamers.. but I wouldn't recommend 
 it to anyone under the age of 40 because most of the younger people have gotten to used to nice 
 graphics.
  That being said, this game is a classic.... no this game is THE classic. This is the game that 
 made people realize that there are more games in the world than action shooters. The story is solid 
 in Diablo, however the story is not the main attraction for most. The hack and slash to kill Satan 
 is the big thing with this game. Its graphics are pretty good for an old game too.
  There are three classes to choose from, rouge, warrior, and mage. Each class has its own skills 
 and weapons it can use. All in ll it is a very nice game and I would recormend it to anyone who 
 cares not about graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dshaw62197
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I remember getting Diablo as a Christmas gift back in '97, a year or two after it had first come 
 out. At the time I was intrigued by the box graphics, and all the great reviews I had read about 
 the game. At that time I had never played an RPG on the PC, so I really didn't know what to expect. 
 Well, over 1 billion clicks later, I was hooked. Diablo was a game that took my PC time over like 
 a virus; I spent hours upon hours crawling through the game's ever-changing levels, looking for 
 new artifacts and monsters to slay. Diablo's simplicity allowed me to jump in without any problem; 
 it's depth of characters and storytelling were what kept me coming back again and again. Diablo 
 got me into the hack-n-slash RPG genre, and although I've played many clones (some of them quite 
 good) , none have ever matched the sheer joy of discovery I first felt with Diablo. All in all, 
 this is a desert island game for me, and one that I still enjoy firing up from time to time. This 
 game stood by itself as the king of action RPGs for me -- until Diablo II came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokedbeef
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  First the Good Things:
  
  Gameplay: Revolutionizing gameplay. Many customizations with ur characters.
  
  Sounds: Incredible 
 sounds (back in that time)
  
  Graphics: Even though it was 2d-ish graphics the game looked very good. (for that age)
  
  System: 
 No crashes or lags what so ever. Also the system requirment is so low that almost any computer 
 can play it even Mac computers.
  
  Bad things:
  
  Gameplay: For me when u get to the middleish end the gameplay could get a bit repetitive
  
 
  Sounds: Nothing to say
  
  Graphics: Nothing to say
  
  Systems: Nothing to say.
  
  Overall: Overall this rpg is almost prefect. If Diablo revolutionize the gameplay of almost every 
 rpg and mmorpg games. U should get it. (not sure if u can get it spreadly but u need to buy the 
 Diablo Battle Cest. It comes with Diablo 1, Diablo Spawn, Diablo 2, Diablo 2 Lord of Destruction, 
 and finally the Ultimate Strategy Guide for Diablo 2, and the LOD.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1996, very few people had heard of Blizzard entertainment. They had mild successes with 
 Warcraft One but Warcraft Two seemed to open some eyes. By the time Diablo came out, everyone was 
 listening to what this segment of Vivendi was doing, and they had reason to.
  
  If you've never had a chance to play Diablo, especially back in the late 1990s, you missed a great 
 game even with all it's flawed grandeur. There was no brevity in the amount of time that you could 
 spend on this game for so many reasons.
  
  Diablo is a click and point, hack and slash game where you play as a hero who sets out to vanquish 
 the evil Diablo who is lurking beneath the town of Tristram. You can choose either the Warrior, 
 the Rogue, or the Sorceror. Though all the classes can equip most of the same items and spells, 
 eventually, they do differentiate enough that picking the class for the style of play you want 
 to play with, does become important. For example, the Warrior swings with melee weapons faster 
 than other classes. Although the Sorceror can equip the swords as well, some swords may eventually 
 require too much strength for the class to equip. The same goes for spells. The Warrior can access 
 lower level spells, (eg. Level five fireball) but will eventually be unable to attain higher level 
 fireballs because his magic level is too low to read the spellbook.
  
  After choosing your class, you're basically thrust into the dungeon that has sixteen levels going 
 all the way down. There are checkpoints at levels 5, 9, and 13 so you don't have to start at level 
 one all the time and the deeper you go, the tougher the enemies get. You point your mouse cursor 
 over an area and click to move it. To attack, you left click the mouse. To cast a spell, you right 
 click and you cast the spell. There's little in casting time for most spells and you can hot key 
 spells to the F5-9 so you can switch very easily and quickly. Controls are simple and succinct 
 and every efficient because of this. There are bars, one for life and one for mana in the colours 
 of red and blue respectively. It's easy to see how much you have left at all time and if you need 
 to drink a potion to restore it, no problem. The tool belt carries items from mana to life potions 
 and scrolls. Just hit the number keys and you waff it down in a flash to keep your character a 
 live. 
  
  Scrolls act as spells but are only one use so they are fairly useless. The only scroll that might 
 be useful is the town portal scroll, which casts a blue portal that allows you to go back to town 
 from the spot in the dungeon and allowing you to go back down as well. This is especially useful 
 for getting allies to come down and join where you are in multiplayer games.
  
  Graphically, the game was awesome when it first came out. Each enemy is unique and some of them 
 fire at you while some just bite off your face. The animations of each enemy when they die are 
 pretty neat and they make some great sounds too when they finally meet their maker. After killing 
 so many doom knights, their dying wail never seems to get too old.
  
  All spells can be easily differentiated from the quick fireball to the amazing apocalypse spell 
 that hits everyone on the screen. It is nice to see the attention to detail such as the fireball 
 spell. When you cast it, it actually lights up the surrounding area as it whirs through the air. 
 
  
  The town of Tristram has many locals. Many of them provide quests and you can repair items or buy 
 new spell books and healing potions and scrolls. What made the locals very engaging is that every 
 line is spoken with text giving the characters even more feel. When you hear the drunk talking 
 about his journeys deep down below the church, you can't help but understand why he's resorted 
 to over intoxicating himself.
  
  Though the game's single player is fantastic and engaging, the multiplayer game is what made the 
 game really shine. You can play on a local area network or even connect directly through the modem 
 but where the game really got popular is Blizzard's free Internet service, battle. net.
  
  Battle. net allows players from all over to world to connect and play games up to four players. 
 Battle. net continues to be a strong venue for people to play games like Starcraft, Diablo II and 
 Warcraft III. What makes the game so strong is the multiplayer but in my opinion, Diablo suffered 
 a lot from going onto the internet as well.
  
  Diablo is notorious for it's inability to deal with cheaters. Within months of the game's release, 
 there were hundreds of people cheating on the internet. If you ever played the game on the internet, 
 you know what I am talking about. Hacks were a dime a dozen it seemed and it would be rare if people 
 weren't casting firewalls in town trying to kill you! What was even better was to play against 
 indestructible people. I'm dead serious! I was hacking one guy for over three minutes with my sword 
 and he would not die. His life bar wasn't decreasing but I wasn't going to stop clicking that mouse! 
 
  
  There were other problems with the game such as duplicating items to such an extent that everyone 
 had the best sword, (King's Sword of Haste) and the best armor, (Godly Plate of the Whale) that 
 made it playing on the internet less than challenging. This is also not mentioning the fact that 
 people were able to make helmets wearable as a sword and a shield or having staves with charges 
 of 255! I remember walking around casting apocalypse like there was no tomorrow. It really drains 
 the fun of the game when the legitimacy disappears.
  
  If it weren't for the chaotic nature of the cheaters on the internet, the game would have been 
 much better but that isn't to say the game isn't very good even with that. I've spent countless 
 hours playing with friends in private games and over the modem to my heart's content. 
  
  Diablo was a monumental game for so many reasons. It combined the the concepts of hack and slash 
 into a multiplayer format with a lot of customization at the time that it was completely unheard 
 of. Putting points into strength or vitality and focusing on different spells or even what armors 
 and weapons to wear because one allows you to shoot faster while the other made it easier to see 
 enemies are such elements that made the game so good. Add that to the fact that you can choose 
 between three classes, play alone, play with up to three more and that the dungeons are all randomly 
 generated, and you truly have a runaway success. This is the game that solidified Blizzard and 
 it's no wonder why.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Now I'm going to review a wonderful game, and one of my favorite games of all time, Blizzard Entertainment's 
 classic, Diablo. The dark story of three people's journey into the heart of darkness evokes more 
 emotion than almost any other PC game. You, the player, pick which of these three people you want 
 to play as, the Warrior, the Rogue, or the Mage. They arrive in the town of Tristram, where the 
 warrior grew up, the Rogue wanders through, and Mage enters to investigate. There they find the 
 place in chaos. People dead, the Archbishop corrupted by a powerful force, and the King gone insane, 
 and eventually killed and cursed. The few remaining survivors ask for your help, to venture down 
 into the corrupted cathedral at the end of town, and put an end to the evil within.
  
  Gameplay- Gameplay is simple, yet amazing. Simply clicking on the enemy with the cursor causes 
 your character to swing his weapon; clicking on them with a spell means you cast the spell on him. 
 Right-click a healing potion to heal yourself. It all fits so amazingly. Blizzard's decision to 
 keep the Gameplay deep, involving, yet remain so simple just HAD to have a deal of luck involved. 
 When there's no baddies around, just click somewhere, and that's where the player walks. It's simplistically 
 perfect.
  
  The graphics also work like nothing else. Dead bodies of the village militia are seen strewn about 
 unceremoniously, dead bodies impaled on poles, wonderful character design of all the major characters, 
 right down to the Lord of Terror himself. The first time you make it down into Hell itself, everything 
 is transfixing. The graphics make you realize what you are up against, the walls make you feel 
 the ominous tone of the game, and the discrepancy of the catacombs is beautiful. Overall graphics 
 are something completely wonderful, and can't be missed for the world.
  
  Sound- The sound in the game is beautiful. The soundtrack is among the best the PC has to offer, 
 better even than Blizzard's own Starcraft, the dark tone of the acoustic thrum for the village 
 makes you feel the desolation that happened there like no-ones business. The insane snare drum 
 war beat of hell itself reminds you constantly of how outnumbered you are, and that for making 
 it this far, the armies of Hell itself are surely after you. The dark gothic bell of meeting Archbishop 
 Lazarus is another great tone-setter. Swinging your weapon cuts through the air, sounding wonderful, 
 and when it cuts through the enemies, it sounds even better. The crunch of killing your first Fallen 
 is a wonderful experience. When you get hit, and it will happen, a lot, in the caves and down, 
 also sounds wonderful, even though it makes you enraged that they're killing you. Your items all 
 fall to the ground as you die, making according sound effects with the items as if you found them 
 in a chest. Your death scream, however, is a bit annoying, just because you get a little too used 
 to it. A bit like dying in Metal Gear Solid. "Snake! Snake! Snaaaaaaaaaaaaaake!" Yeah. A bit like 
 that.
  
  Value- The replay value is, for a reasonable amount of time, off the roof. You can beat it the 
 first time, most likely you were the Warrior, and then beat it twice more with the Rogue and the 
 Mage. You can beat it those times, show it off to friends, play over Battle. net, which is something 
 I do, and I strongly recommend returning to it a good 3-4 years later, after beating it the first 
 time, to completely relive the experience. Good replay value is a must, and Diablo has it.
  
  All in all, Diablo is very simplistic, and pretty damn good. One of the best to grace PC, hell, 
 one of the best to grace gaming period. I strongly recommend it to anyone who likes, well, video 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Diablo changed the way we played the typical hack n' slash rpg. The concept is simple enough, develop 
 your character by descending levels and kill everything. Along the way you learn that the forces 
 of hell are loose upon the plane of Earth, and you just happen to be the only one that can stop 
 the whole mess. The idea is so simple that some may question why people play it at all?
  
  The creators of Diablo made a formula which kept things fresh while giving you the same thing over 
 and over. First up we have the way dungeons are designed. Every time you start a new game the layout 
 of the dungeons are generated randomly, giving you a new level to explore each game. In these randomly 
 generated levels are randomly generated monsters and loot. You could explore a whole level in one 
 game and then the next time you play it would have different treasure and monsters to challenge 
 you. After awhile most folks will catch on to the simplistic of this and leave out of boredom. 
 Most others will stay for the addiction of seeing what treasures they pull out of the game, kind 
 of like straight forward gambling with time being the currency.
  
  The graphics and sound of Diablo are nothing to shy away from even for the age of the game. The 
 overall feel of the game is a gothic setting that makes everything feel as if dread is the life 
 of the party. The music adds a fantastic atmospheric feel to the game as a whole, providing you 
 are into a combination of Celtic and gothic folk music. Character animations are done well and 
 leave you with a satisfying grin on your lips for each hell spawn you drive your axe towards. 
 
  
  To say that Diablo was not a revolution is down right insane. It spawned a sequel that added even 
 more options and kept true to the type of game play we grown to love. Many other games have adopted 
 the concepts and game play of Diablo over the years. Some improved on the formula while others 
 fell short and proved that they were just trying to cash in on a genre. In the end, everyone will 
 always call games that play like this "Diablo clones", because that is where the revolution's origins 
 are rooted.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  Diablo is a simple RPG made by Blizzard, in 1996. The premise of the game is very simple, explore 
 the depths of the church and kill all the monsters. Yet, the game manages to be very complex and 
 satisfying, because the number of ways the levels can be finished are numerous
  
  The story is like this: Tristram, once a peaceful town, has entered dark times when it was attacked 
 by demons and it is up to you to save the town and its inhabitants. There is a lot more to the 
 story than this, but I'll leave it for you to find out.
  
  The player gets to choose from three different classes of characters  the warrior, the rogue and 
 the sorcerer
  
  Each class has a different approach to combat. The warrior specializes in melee combat, effectively 
 using swords and axes. The rogue relies on accuracy; with high dexterity, the rogue can kill enemies 
 before they have a chance to get close. The sorcerer can cast spells destroying enemies with the 
 use of magic
  
  The experience will be very different depending on the class of the character. The warrior can 
 rush into battle, while the rogue and sorcerer have to use the hit-and-run strategy at times
  
  As the game progresses the player gets to level up, and develop the character. Strength, Dexterity, 
 Vitality and Magic can be improved with progress. New weapons or new spells will be unlocked giving 
 rise to a number of different ways in which a same level can be played
  
  Another huge positive aspect of the game is the replay value. Each time a new character is created 
 the levels are generated randomly, which means that Level 1 with a character is not the same as 
 Level 1 with another character. So even if the game is completed, it can be replayed using a different 
 character and the levels are never repeated.
  
  Although the game is linear in its conclusion, that is no matter which character is chosen, the 
 ending is always same, the path to the ending is always different. To have implemented this when 
 almost all other games during its time are strictly linear makes stand apart from the rest.
  
  The game is not without its faults or fault as I can only think of one. I thought the whole 
 idea of going through levels back and forth to visit the town was a little tedious, but that didn't 
 stop me from playing the game, and I'll have you know that I am playing the game again with a different 
 character. The game is that good.
  
  Even after 11 years of its release, Diablo is still regarded as one of the best games of all time. 
 New generation of gamers may not be acquainted with this game, but I think it should be tried by 
 everyone. If you manage to look past the graphics, Diablo has a lot to offer
  
  + Excellent level design
  + High replay value
  + Great sound
  
  - Backtracking through 
 levels
  
  Verdict  Excellent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Well, some of you may be wondering why I have given this an 8.0 when almost everyone else has given 
 it 9.0-10. There are many things that would make this game superb but one thing that qualifies 
 in my opinion as merely fair, that being the combat. The graphics are good for when they were made. 
 Everything is voice acted, which really adds to the experience and is still a rare thing to have 
 in a game to this day surprisingly enough. The music is perfect and creepy, it really adds to the 
 atmosphere. The dungeons are well mapped out and are littered with evil enemies and disgusting 
 bosses like the butcher. This would all be fantastic except for the combat. It is incredibly repetitive 
 and boring. Sometimes it accomplishes its goal and becomes highly addictive, but overall I would 
 say it is just boring. If you like dungeon crawlers you must play this game, if not, I honestly 
 don't think I would recommend it with so many other great games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudcaked
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Diablo was a masterpeice of an old school dungeon run. It allowed you to pick between a Warrior, 
 Rogue or Sorcerer. The class you picked had a big influence on the way the game had to be played 
 as each class played out very differently. The visuals are dark and gothic and along with the soundtrack 
 (most notably the famous Tristram theme) immerse the player right into this gothic environment.
 
  
  Diablo contained sixteen levels (four levels of four types) that would generate randomly each time 
 you played a new game, adding massive replayability potential. Characters would level up from 1 
 through to 50 throughout their adventures on Normal, Nightmare and Hell difficulty.
  Characters could be equipped with a myriad of items that could be purchased in town or more often 
 than not looted from the dungeons underneath it. Just trying to collect an item you were after 
 could give you a bad case of 'just one more turn' which could have a player sitting on this game 
 for hours on end. 
  
  Multiplayer is where this game shines. By teaming up with players of another class the gameplay 
 would always vary based upon the classes that were involved in a fight and the attitude of the 
 players. While an outstanding concept, Diablo did have several problems with people using trainers 
 on Battle. net as well as exploiting a duping bug, that pretty much destroyed any form of online 
 public trading of equipment. However with a bunch of trusted friends or other legitimate online 
 players, the gameplay could rival and surpass most other titles of it's time.
  
  Available now at bargain prices, this title is one that any collector should not pass up that still 
 has a mouse that goes 'click'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  A good way to start off this review is to turn back the clock to November, 1996. Ahhh, the was 
 back when PC gaming was still in its youth. One of the more popular PC game developers was Blizzard 
 Entertainment. They were famous for their WarCraft series of RTS games but then they released another 
 instant classic. it was called... DIABLO! Diablo is rather dated game in 2007 but back in 1996, 
 it was almost revolutionary. The story features you, a nameless character, arriving at the town 
 of Tristram to deal with some unknown evil hidden beneath the church. The evil is known as Diablo, 
 the Lord of Terror. Yea, the story isn't very deep but through the 16 levels of the church, you'll 
 find numerous books that expands on the world's lore, making it seem "real." As it is a role playing 
 game, Diablo features 3 character classes, the warrior, the rogue, and the sorceror. The warrior 
 is your standard battle tank, able to take down enemies up close and personal. The rogue is somewhat 
 weak at close quarters combat but is skilled at ranged attacks. The socrceror is the weakest out 
 of the 3 but can use all the magic spells and when upgraded properly, the strongest out of the 
 3. One of the unique features of Diablo was its randomly generated levels and you'll never play 
 the same game twice as sometimes you might find new loot or new monsters to battle. The moster 
 variety is very high and the music, while largely ambient in nature still sometimes sends a chill 
 down your spine. The graphics, from its time, were quite well done, and its still pretty to look 
 at after all these years. The multiplayer has largely been taken over by hackers but its still 
 plenty of fun to play with your friends. If you have NEVER played this game, first you should smack 
 yourself 3 times for missing it all these years, and then go get it!!! Nowadays its only 9.99 at 
 the bargain bin and you'll be spending hours playing it., 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBird228
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  When Diablo came out, the role playing scene was pretty stagnant. What it did for RPG's was kindle 
 a new life into the genre. The main factor that put it above the rest of the games at the time, 
 were the varieties and combination of items, and the immersiveness of combat. The wide variety 
 of weapons, skills, and characters, made replayibility go through the roof. This combined with 
 the relatively slick graphics for the time, made the single player mode extremely enjoyable. It 
 was also a a RPG that focused on the story telling so that it assisted in the mood, and made the 
 experience much more real. The legacy that Diablo left us is matched only by its sequel Diablo 
 II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akazergling2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay -- 9/10
  --------------------
  Diablo sports the classic hack-and-slash system popularizedwell, Diablo actually did a decent 
 job of making this system popular on its own. With 3 different unique classes, the replay value 
 of Diablo is quite immense. Also, with 27 spells, all of which have their own uses and abilities 
 without much similarity between them. Finally, with over 2000 items, you can customize your character 
 to an extreme degree.
  
  Graphics -- 8/10
  --------------------
  While the graphics are outdated, at the time they were top-of-the-line and even today, they are 
 still decent at worst, and classic at best.
  
  Sound -- 8/10
  --------------------
  The sound is average for the most part, however, I would not recommend playing Diablo after the 
 sun goes down. You may start to wonder if the demonic chanting is coming from your speakers or 
 your closet.
  
  Value -- 9/10
  --------------------
  As I said before, the replay value is immense with 3 completely unique classes to choose from, 
 as well as thousands of equipment to find. Also Diablo sported one of the first random instance 
 generators. Diablo even has access to the always popular battle. net and while you can't throw a 
 stone without it duplicating, you can easily get together with trusted friends to play honest games. 
 Of course, you always have the option to slip into a dark alley and boost your level a few points.
 
  
  Tilt -- 10/10
  --------------------
  Diablo is an excellent game that has had an extensive impact on the genre since its release. I 
 highly recommend this game to any RPG lovers as well as anyone interested in the horror genre.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nichavgo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  To summarize what I think about this magnificent game I would have to say that it is a masterpiece 
 of its genre, grandfather, patriarch of the action RPG games to follow.
  I've played Diablo II firstly and found it pretty interesting, I loved it further in time. So I 
 decided to try the prequel to this amazing piece of RPG art, the original Diablo. Even though the 
 graphics are somewhat dated now, it's the essence of the game that makes it a great game to behold 
 now and will make it in the future.
  Many of the items and characteristics of nowadays Role Playing (the most important ones; the base 
 of this genre) , specially Diablo II can be easily recognized in Diablo, the innovator of a style...
 
  I'm aware that this description of one of the greatest games in PC games history may not comply 
 with the expectations that I probably awake in the first lines, but you also have to know that 
 such description will probably take many paragraphs and pages... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly a instant classic. Back in the day it was like the OoT for the PC. Meaning it 
 was a breakthrough and everyone loved it! The Vast Areas to explore, the leveling up, all the weapons 
 and armor, and all those creepy @$$ enemies waiting around every corner are sure to give you a 
 really fun experience. If you don't have any games for your pc and you are not playing diablo2. 
 Then you SHOULD be playing Diablo on your pc. You will end up hogging the PC if you dont have one 
 yourself. So you have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dalmanimous
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Ive finished this game more than fifteen times and i cant get enough of it. The story is great 
 the graphics are pretty good too. it has awesome items and the characters are the classic ones 
 Mage Ranger Warrior my favourite is the ranger and then the Mage but i dont realy like the Warrior. 
 If you dont have it you must buy it at all cost its an alltime classic RPG. Although its not very 
 hard to play experienced RPG players should try it out. it is realy addictive and you just want 
 more every time you finish it so my suggestion is to get diablo 2 also. but details for that in 
 another review :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Diablo is the first Action-RPG in the gaming history. While some RPG games back in 1996 already 
 featured real-time combats, Diablo shows up with a new genre. Call it Hack 'n Slash or Action Role-Playing, 
 which are different things, doesn't matter because Diablo fits in both definitions. In this game, 
 developed by Blizzard (1996) , you'll control a character in 3rd-Person view, which you can move 
 around by just clicking the mouse on the screen. You'll do some quests, search for treasures and 
 kill enemies in real-time battles, just like in the old Ultima VIII: Pagan (Origin - 1994) and 
 some other games. What really differs Diablo from its precedors is the action, the feature in focus. 
 Ultima VIII wasn't an action game, so the combat system is the worst. Diablo featured a new combat 
 system, which is still used in a more complex way. This is why this game is so revolutionary.
 
  
  Your main quest is to defeat Diablo - the Lord of Terror -. All you know at the first moment in 
 the campaign is about a fallen archbishop, a sick king and his missing son. You'll start your quest 
 in the cathedral of Tristam, the only town in Diablo. For this quest, you can venture deeper in 
 the ruins with one of the three characters: Warrior, Rogue and Sorceror. It's easy to figure out 
 what each one does: the Warrior is strong at melee combats; the Rogue is skilled with ranged weapons; 
 the Sorceror fights with magic. The classes have special Skills, which the player can use without 
 limit. The Warrior can repair damaged items, the Rogue can disarm traps and Sorceror has the ability 
 to recharge items with special powers (staffs with limited uses of magic) .
  
  The characters have four Attributes to develop: Strength, Magic, Dexterity and Vitality. In general, 
 Strength allows you to use heavier weapons and deal more damage, Magic increases your Mana and 
 the types of Spells you can learn from Books, Dexterity boosts your chance to hit and your Armor 
 Class, Vitality increases your health points. All the four Attributes are important, but it's your 
 class that determines which one you'll develop for most. If you're playing with Rogue, then develop 
 your Dexterity. To increase your Attributes, the character must gain a level, which is accomplished 
 by killing monsters. Each level gained the character receives five points to distribute between 
 the Attributes.
  
  While this isn't a rule, traditionally the Warrior will fight with melee weapons like swords, axes 
 and hammers, with or without a shield. The Rogue will use bows and the Sorceror, staffs and spells. 
 All these items are bought in the town (there you begin the game) , plus potions, scrolls, books, 
 armor, rings and amulets. When your venture forth the cathedral, you'll find items which can be 
 sold in the town. You don't need to walk all the way again, just use the handy 'Town Portal' to 
 get in and out the village.
  
  Diablo has a gothic theme, which means that you'll walk between religious related places, like 
 catacombs and even the hell. Your enemies are all undead (zombies, skeletons etc) or demons (fallen 
 angels, fiends, imps ...) . And don't expect open areas like in Ultima or Wizardry series. It's 
 a creepy and claustrophobic atmosphere that you'll find in Diablo.
  
  About gameplay, it's the simplest version of the Action Role-Playing genre: Point-and-click to 
 move into an open ground; also to open a chest, door or barrel; or, finally, to attack a monster. 
 Right-clicks performs special actions, mostly are to cast spells, and eventually to use the class-specific 
 skills. Rooms in the dungeons are filled with a range of few to dozens of hellish spawns. Some 
 of them are unique monsters, harder to kill and often contain good treasures. Spells are very important 
 in Diablo. While most of them are to damage enemies with three different types of damage (magic, 
 fire and lightning) , some can be used to avoid enemies, open chests and pick up items from distance, 
 absorb damage and so.
  
  As I love the Isometric projection technique in 2D games, I found the graphics in Diablo simply 
 amazing. But they're, obvious, dated when compared with Dungeon Siege and Titan Quest, which are 
 fully 3D rendered games. Not even the special effects are impressive, like in the sequel, Diablo 
 II. But you can run Diablo in really low-end machines =) .
  
  Sound and music are great, particularly the soundtrack at the Catacomb levels. As you can talk 
 with people in the town, you'll also notice the voice acting is very good.
  
  Diablo also allows multiplayer games, both local and over the net (Battle. net) . There is the ability 
 to choose between three levels of difficult, when playing online: Normal (the default single-player 
 difficult) , Nightmare and Hell. This adds a lot of depth to the game, as the Hell difficult is 
 more for team-oriented games, combining strenghtness and weakness from the three characters. If 
 you're a RPG-Action aficionado and don't mind playing a visually dated game, try Diablo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pablo_SL
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This game just changed the way of seeing RPG game for ever and if you look on the modern games 
 you will notice that the trade screens and text ir dialogues are all based on this game. Easily 
 one of the greatest games ever made, Diablo has revolutioned RPG games taking them out of that 
 Final fantasy playing of turns and putting all the bases of an Role-Action game. Great sound track 
 I just love the town's sound track and also great graphs for the time it came out. I would define 
 it as a Classic and thats all I have to say about this revolutionary game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacob72993
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I surprised on how high diablo was rated. Diablo has OK graphics. OK gameplay. OK sound. And basically 
 ok everything. After you played diablo for awhile it starts getting boring. Its a good game but 
 theres NO WAY i could play diablo a year straight without quiting and playing again. I go on and 
 off with all the games i own, theres proably no game i played for a year straight playing it about 
 3-4 times a week, and i mostly buy a game and play it for 2 weeks (everyday about) then quit and 
 dont play it for another year, and diablo is one of those games. Diablo on multiplayer is OK, people 
 hack all the time it seems like. The main thing you do and only do it seems like is KILL, KILL, KILL, 
 and did i mention KILL? lol. But thats what diablo is ment for, also theres quests that are OK. 
 But if I ever find a game that i rate 9.0 or higher its either because IT ROCKS or its just because 
 i just bought it, and then next weeks or so the rating will go down to like 7.0. I've had Diablo 
 for 4 years about. And it still doesn't amuse me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokikitty
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  I have been playing both Diablo as well as Diablo: Lord of Destruction for years. I have noticed 
 that a lot of today's gamers tend to discount the original because it doesn't look as pretty and 
 doesn't have the variety of the sequel. In my humble opinion this game is almost as good as the 
 sequel, if one can overlook some minor performance bugs.
  
  The Story: You are a nameless hero, new to the town of Tristram. Upon arrival the townspeople charge 
 you with various quests to rid the town of demonic influence coming from the cathedral.
  
  The Gameplay: You are 1 of 3 character arch types. You can choose to be a Warrior, a Rogue, or 
 a Sorcerer. Basically fighting, archery, or magic. ( Note: if you want to play a female character, 
 you are stuck with the Rogue.) Each character class has a special ability. For the Warrior it is 
 armor repair; for the Rogue it is disarming traps; and for the Sorcerer it is recharging magical 
 staves. Whichever character type you pick, you pick up quests from townspeople or special areas 
 in the cathedral, then descend into a randomized dungeon area.
  
  The Controls: Point and click. That's about it.
  
  The Environment: This is where it really 
 shines in my opinion. The dungeon levels are randomized the first time you descend down, (every 
 time you play if playing Single Player mode) , so you never play the same game twice. The difficulty 
 levels are easy to see, as the appearance of the easy, medium, and hard levels of the dungeon look 
 very different from each other. You can pick up magic scrolls and books in many libraries, and 
 of course treasure. My favorite aspect of the game are the many shrines that are available to be 
 used on almost every level. The shrines can be good or bad, and the names are cryptic enough to 
 not give away which does what. I feel it adds spice to the repetitive nature of the hack and slash 
 system.
  
  The Bad: There really isn't a lot of space in your inventory to pick up all the loot you'll find, 
 so you'll find yourself going back to town way too often. There is also the possibility of a corrupt 
 save, which can ruin your game. It happens very, very, rarely, but it does happen. I saved a game 
 while in a dungeon, when I logged back on, I was embedded in the wall. Try as I might, I never 
 could get out of that wall, so had to scrap that character and start again. Finally, the game can 
 sometimes be a bit too hard for low characters. The is a certain boss that is absolute murder to 
 defeat, and is found in the easier levels.
  
  I still love this game, despite it's flaws. I also find it makes for a nice change of place if 
 one plays way too much Lord of Destruction, and is looking to take a break for a few days. Plus 
 who doesn't love a twist ending? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Horde
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  I was too little when this game had its release. And I played Diablo II first. I just thought you 
 should know why I won't give this game so much praise it probably deserves.
  
  I could probably play this again, if me and all my friends put our computers together and have 
 a large awesome lan, with snacks and drinks. But I wouldn't just sit down and play through the 
 game for the joy of it. Why?
  
  Number one, there's no running function. You walk through the whole game.
  Number two, You just 
 run down, and down, and down, in a demon-filled church.
  Number three, When the items run out of durability they break. And every time you repair them, 
 the durability is lowered.
  
  If you're looking for a Diablo experience, don't bother with this game, if you want to know what 
 the story is from Diablo to Diablo II, just look it up at some internet dictionary and go buy the 
 second game, which Is oh-so-much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenneli
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  It is certainly old but unforgettable classic. I am still playing it time to time and whenever 
 I play I go to the journey to past with my memories. All those manas, weapons, music are excellent. 
 Storyline is the best I have ever played. I think it can be very hard for any game to give the 
 player real fear, real adventure, and more generally sense of real life. Diablo is the game you 
 can find them all completely and certainly many others. Unfortunately, it is not possible or satisfactory 
 to play the game with new generation XPs or Vistas. I keep one 98 based computer just to play Diablo, 
 my love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mp3delicious
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Despite that this is now considered a very dated game by today's standards, it still reflects as 
 one of the finest RPG dungeon crawlers I've played. It has great replay value, especially if you 
 own it with the expansion disk. The game is perfect for what you would call a very fun game. And 
 in my opinion, every good dungeon crawler after Diablo has taken this formular and only improved 
 on it . This game will stand the test of time indeed, at least for those who won't snear at old 
 school graphics. I'm not a big PC gamer at all, but this is one I was told not to miss, and I'm 
 glad I listened. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Story
  
  The story of Diablo is based on the premise of a war between Heaven and Hell. The town of Tristram 
 has come under attack by demons, and the player must save the town and, in effect, the world, by 
 ridding it of the Lord of Terror. As the player delves into the underworld, some of the history 
 behind the war between Heaven and Hell, as well as knowledge about Diablo himself, are revealed 
 through large tomes that are found throughout the levels.
  
  Diablo is the Lord of Terror and one of the Three Prime Evils of Hell, the most powerful lords 
 of demonkind. Long before the events of the game, he was captured by a secretive order of mortal 
 magi known as the Horadrim. The Horadrim imprisoned each of the Prime Evils in a Soulstone; Diablo's 
 red stone was buried in caverns deep beneath the town of Tristram, and as the generations passed, 
 was forgotten. Though his imprisonment was meant to be eternal, the power of the Soulstone weakened 
 over centuries, eventually allowing Diablo to use limited power from within the stone. He telepathically 
 turned an inhabitant of Tristram, the Archbishop Lazarus, into his pawn. In order for Diablo to 
 actually leave the Soulstone, Diablo needed to posses a host. Through his minion Lazarus, he initially 
 tried to gain control of King Leoric, the local ruler, but Diablo, in his weakened state, was unable 
 to overpower Leoric. Abandoning the idea, he caused Lazarus to kidnap King Leoric's son, Prince 
 Albrecht. He inspired such terror in the child that the boundaries between the realms were broken 
 and parts of Hell appeared in the mortal world, taking root in the labyrinth beneath Tristram. 
 Diablo then chose to bide his time and wait for the opportune moment to strike.
  
  Soon afterwards King Leoric was driven to madness by the loss of his son. With Lazarus whispering 
 in his ear, he ordered a foolhardy attack on a far stronger neighboring realm - a campaign to which 
 Lazarus made sure to send all of the King's most loyal and good-hearted heroes. The campaign proved 
 a suicide mission, and soon the King had only the lies of Lazarus for counsel. Leoric began brutally 
 executing the subjects he once protected, suspecting everyone of the kidnapping of his son. Lazarus 
 led groups of townsfolk into the labyrinth in supposed pursuit of the missing prince - but Lazarus's 
 only purpose was to deliver the innocents up to death at the hands of the demons. At length, the 
 few survivors of the army returned home, led by the noble Sir Lachdanan. Leoric immediately ordered 
 their execution, and, seeing the King for the tortured soul he was, Lachdanan killed his King with 
 a mercy stroke. Upon his dying breath, Leoric cursed those who were close to him that they should 
 serve him in the underworld for all of eternity, creating the horrific undead knights of the labyrinth.
 
  
  Shortly after, the time period of the game begins as the player's character arrives. He or she 
 has to fight their way through sixteen levels to face Diablo, encountering various monsters and 
 quests to challenge them. At the end of the game, the player character has again trapped Diablo 
 in a soulstone. The hero then pierces his or her head with the soulstone, attempting to contain 
 the Lord of Terror. However, the end of the game hints at a darker outcome. The final scene depicts 
 the hero, swathed in a shadowy, hooded cloak. Diablo II later confirms that Diablo was indeed too 
 strong, and possessed the hero who slew him.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Diablo is one of the most well-known examples of the action-RPG subgenre. Although players level 
 up, choose character classes, and manage a variety of spells and equipment as in a typical RPG, 
 all actions are done in real time, as in an action game. Diablo in many ways resembles roguelike 
 games, the main differences being more realistic graphics and the fact the game is in real time, 
 rather than turn-based. Diablo was influenced by Moria and Angband.
  
  The majority of commands in Diablo are executed by the mouse. Players click on an area of the screen 
 to direct the character, and click on enemies to attack. However, learned spells can be assigned 
 hot keys using the function keys on mouse-over, as well as several text exclamations (e. g. Help 
 me! ) that could be edited in a configuration file.
  
  Diablo is highly replayable thanks to its randomly generated levels, with every map that the player 
 encounters being unique compared to the last. This randomness extends to the monster population 
 as well, though they are generated from a group appropriate for that level. In addition, in single 
 player mode there are only three core missions as the rest of them are drawn from several pools, 
 making it impossible to complete every quest in one setting. Either way, only the last two quests 
 are compulsory (although it is necessary to complete the voluntary missions to gain experience 
 and items, and to learn more of the backstory) . Given this arrangement, no two playthroughs of 
 the game are ever exactly alike. By contrast, its sequel, Diablo II, is much more linear. Though 
 many of its maps are randomly generated as well, the player will encounter the same levels and 
 quests (many of which are compulsory) upon each playthrough.
  
  Its expansion, Diablo: Hellfire, extends the gameplay through additions such as new character classes, 
 monsters, items, quests, areas, and plot.
  
  Levels
  
  There are sixteen levels of the dungeon, divided into four areas. Each area has a different appearance, 
 architecture, light level, monster mix, and musical soundtrack. The first level of each of these 
 areas (levels 1, 5, 9, and 13) each have an additional exit leading back up to the town of Tristram. 
 In single player, these entrances are blocked until the character opens them from the dungeon side. 
 For example, the entrance from level 13 to town is not visible at first. When the character reaches 
 level 13 from level 12, and then finds the stairs to town, they may go up, and the entrance (a 
 glowing crevice) opens and is available for two-way travel from then on. In multiplayer, the entrances 
 to town all start in their open position, but with a level requirement to access them from town. 
 A character that does not meet this level requirement will have to either gain more levels, or 
 reach that area by completing the preceding area.
  
  Levels 1-4 are set in the Cathedral, with a fairly straightforward layout, large rooms of regular 
 size connected by wide corridors and frequent doors and grates. Levels 5-8 consist of the Catacombs, 
 which are very dark, and have a convoluted and confusing room layout. Levels 9-12 are the Caves, 
 which contain powerful and magic-immune monsters, and a very complex layout, with rivers of lava 
 and fences blocking the character's path in many places. Levels 13-16 are set in Hell, infested 
 with the most powerful monsters in the game; the layout is straightforward, but doors and grates 
 do not exist, preventing the character from easily controlling his enemies' movement. The 16th 
 level of the dungeon, lair of Diablo himself, cannot be accessed until the player has completed 
 the quest to slay Archbishop Lazarus.
  
  Character classes
  
  The three character classes of Diablo are the warrior, rogue, and sorcerer. Each character, following 
 typical role-playing conventions, has his or her own particular traits. The warrior possesses physical 
 strength, the rogue has high dexterity, and the sorcerer is oriented towards magic. * Warrior: 
 The warrior is a powerful melee fighter, master of weapons of war and capable of enduring more 
 damage than any of the other classes. The background of the character states that they range from 
 barbarians from the northern highlands to noble paladins. * Rogue: The rogues who appear in Diablo 
 are master archers. They can have a higher level of magic than warriors and thus are able to make 
 better use of magic in their battles, although not nearly as well as sorcerers. The rogues belong 
 to a group called the Sisters of the Sightless Eye, and are the best archers in the world of Sanctuary. 
 * Sorcerer: A powerful master of the arcane arts, the sorcerer is the hero that is able to achieve 
 the greatest heights of magic, so that he doesn't have need of physical weapons. In the game story, 
 sorcerers belong to Vizjerei mage clan, and have come to Tristram seeking to discover long lost 
 tomes of magic knowledge under the cathedral.
  
  Unlike other games that strictly differentiate between classes, a character's abilities are not 
 unique; a warrior can use the same spells as a sorcerer, while a sorcerer can use weapons such 
 as axes. All three classes require the same amount of experience to level up, and there are no 
 class-based requirements for equipping items or using spells. However, different classes have different 
 starting attributes.
  
  In terms of game mechanics, the different characters also each have different maximum possible 
 levels for their attributes, and gain different amounts of life and mana per level. As a result, 
 some classes may have difficulty attaining the attribute levels required to equip or use high level 
 items/spells. Also, the characters have hidden differences in their in-game performance, including 
 chance to hit and block, different rates of fire and slower or faster cast rate.
  
  Character information
  
  Attributes
  
  The four numerical character attributes in Diablo 
 affect the characters' combat statistics which in turn determine how powerful the character is. 
 With each level up, five points may be distributed among the Base attributes to permanently increase 
 them at the player's choice. They may also be modified by elixirs and magical shrines encountered 
 in the game. Various magical items acquired in game increase the effective character attributes 
 while these items are being used. * Strength affects the amount of damage the character may deal 
 in melee combat. Advanced armor and weapons have minimum Strength requirements. * Magic affects 
 the amount of mana the character has (see Character Statistics) . Magic affects the chance of a 
 spell striking its target. Also, many spells are affected in some way (such as damage dealt or 
 duration) by the Magic attribute. Spellbooks, staves, and many scrolls have minimum Magic requirements. 
 * Dexterity affects the chance of hitting enemies in combat and the chance of being hit by enemies. 
 It also increases the amount of damage dealt by ranged attacks (for the Rogue only) . Advanced bows 
 have minimum Dexterity requirements. * Vitality affects the Life statistic of the character (see 
 Character Statistics) . It also determines how much damage a monster needs to deal in order to stun 
 the character ( stun refers to a momentary delay in character action after suffering a heavy blow; 
 being repetitively stunned in combat can be extremely hazardous) .
  
  Statistics * Life represents how much damage the character can take before dying, also informally 
 called hit points . The amount of Life remaining is constantly displayed as a red orb on the left 
 of the screen. * Mana represents the character's spiritual essences. Casting spells requires mana. 
 Therefore the more mana is available, the more spells can be cast. The amount of Mana remaining 
 is constantly displayed as a blue orb on the right of the screen. * Chance to Hit represents the 
 likelihood that physical attacks will inflict damage on their targets. This is assuming that the 
 character is actually attacking a square that is occupied by an enemy. If the square is empty, 
 then the chance to hit is zero. There are many hidden effects governing chance to hit, such as 
 maximum and minimum restrictions imposed by the game engine and innate class bonuses. Therefore, 
 displayed chance to hit may not accurately indicate the true likelihood of striking a given enemy. 
 * Armor Class (sometimes abbreviated AC) represents the amount and quality of armor worn as a whole, 
 modeling this as a reduction in chance of being hit. The body location, type of armor (fabric, 
 chain, plate) , and type of attack (bow, sword, etc.) are not considered by the game. Armor does 
 not protect a character against magical attacks, but a shield can occasionally block spells. * 
 Damage represents the reduction in Life a physical attack will cause if it hits, represented as 
 a numerical range. * Resist Fire, Resist Lightning, and Resist Magic represent the character's 
 ability to resist damage from the respective categories of magical attacks. Magic attacks are all 
 those that are not fire or lightning, which include magical acid. These statistics can only be 
 non-zero as a result of the use of magical items, as characters can never innately possess resistance. 
 None of the resistances can exceed 75% under any conditions for any character, though some enemies 
 in the game have complete immunities to Fire, Lightning, or Magic.
  
  Spells and skills
  
  Characters can learn spells from tomes found in the game, and add them to their spellbooks. 
 Spells can later be cast and infinite number of times, if the character has enough mana to do it. 
 Spells can also be improved by learning higher levels of the same spell. Different spells, and 
 different levels of the same spell, require varying amounts of mana to be cast.
  
  Each class also has a special skill which is unique to specific character class. Warriors have 
 the ability to repair items, Rogues can disarm traps and Sorcerers can recharge staves that have 
 a certain amount of spell charges on them. However there is a drawback that is associated with 
 repairing or recharging an item. In both cases both the original durability and maximum staff charge 
 is reduced. Therefore in using such an ability, the item loses its potential and worth.
  
  Monsters
  
  The monsters of Diablo are undead monstrosities, vicious nocturnals, and demons 
 spawned from Hell. Each of the sixteen levels contains monsters that are tougher and stronger than 
 ones from the level before it. When the player kills a monster, the monster may randomly drop an 
 item or gold. Upon killing more enemies, the player may find out more details about the monsters, 
 such as hit points and resistances and/or immunities.
  
  In the world of Diablo, monsters are divided according to their masters: * The followers of Mephisto, 
 the Lord of Hatred, are the undead (skeletons and zombies) , demonically corrupted animals whose 
 unshapely forms and twisted limbs leave them in eternal agony and rage (overlords) , and lava demons 
 spawned by the spilling of Mephisto's blood in Hell. * The followers of Baal, the Lord of Destruction, 
 are creatures that seek the undoing of the material Universe and the manifestation of chaos. Some 
 of them include the Fallen Ones, Goat Men and Poison Spitters. * The minions of Diablo, the Lord 
 of Terror, are the fears of man in a corporeal form, figuratively-speaking. They prefer to attack 
 their victims from the shadows, especially after their prey demonstrates weakness. Some of those 
 demons are The Hidden and Scavengers.
  
  In Diablo, enemies are also divided in 3 groups: * Animals: Take greater damage from swords/blades 
 and less damage from blunt/clubbing weapons. * Demons: Take equal damage from all kinds of weapons. 
 Diablo himself is considered a Demon. * Undead: Take greater damage from blunt/clubbing weapons 
 and less damage from swords/blades. Undead are the only monster type (aside from Diablo himself) 
 vulnerable to the Holy Bolt spell.
  
  Items
  
  Items are sold by the vendors, randomly dropped by slain monsters, and can be discovered within 
 the labyrinth inside of chests or barrels or sometimes laying on a floor. There are several types 
 of items.
  
  Gold is the currency used to buy goods and services from the vendors. When gold is picked up from 
 the ground or received from selling an item, the amount is added to the smallest pile of gold in 
 the player's inventory. A maximum of five thousand gold pieces can be in one pile (which occupies 
 one square of inventory space) . In the Hellfire expansion, an item gained as a quest reward is 
 a unique amulet that allows each inventory space to hold ten thousand gold instead.
  
  Quest items come in many varieties in the single-player mode of Diablo and within the Hellfire 
 expansion. Some of them activate a quest when picked up or found, while others must be carried 
 along or used to interact with the environment, and yet others are given as special rewards for 
 completing quests. Some of these quest-related items are automatically destroyed (or otherwise 
 taken from the player) when the related quest is completed.
  
  Consumables
  
  These are items that are destroyed when used, and include potions, elixirs, scrolls and spellbooks. 
 Between the red and blue orbs of life and mana, at the bottom of the screen, the player has eight 
 slots representing a belt which can contain consumables (except spellbooks) . These slots are numbered, 
 and pressing the corresponding key (one through eight) will use the associated consumable. No other 
 items can be placed in the belt. * Potions: Healing Potions (red) refill life, Mana Potions (blue) 
 refill mana, and Rejuvenation Potions (yellow) refill both. All varieties come in normal (partial 
 refill) and full (complete refill) types. Each class has a hidden bonus value for Healing and Mana 
 potions; Warriors recover more Life from a Healing Potion, while Sorcerors recover more Mana from 
 a Mana potion, with Rogues regaining an average amount from each. Potions of Rejuvenation function 
 as one potion of Healing and one potion of Mana. All potions take their effect instantaneously. 
 * Scrolls: When used, the scroll simply casts the named spell. The benefits are that the spell 
 costs no mana to use, and the user doesn't need to actually know that spell in order to use the 
 scroll (though they must meet the scroll's Magic requirement, if it has one) . Some scrolls bear 
 spells which the player cannot learn, such as Apocalypse. When casting a spell from a scroll, it 
 is cast at whatever level the character knows the spell; if the character does not know the spell 
 at all, it is cast at level one. * Elixirs: Using an Elixir increases the named base attribute 
 by one (but not over the base attribute's natural limit) . They can be found in the dungeons, and 
 most of them can be bought from some vendors after reaching certain levels. * Spellbooks: Using 
 one grants the player the named spell, or increases the spell's level by one if the player already 
 knows it. Minimum magic requirements have to be met in order to read a book; but in order to cast 
 the spell the player only needs enough mana to pay its casting cost. Spellbooks can be found in 
 the dungeon (either dropped by monsters or found on bookshelves and scroll racks) , or can be bought 
 from a vendor. Some spells cannot be learned from books; those spells must be cast using staves 
 and scrolls.
  
  Equipment
  
  Weapons, shields, helmets, armor, amulets, and rings are the basic types of equipment. Any character 
 can use any piece of equipment so long as they meet its statistical requirements - Strength, Dexterity, 
 and Magic. The only other restrictions are that characters may not equip two weapons simultaneously 
 or use a two-handed weapon in conjunction with a shield.
  
  Weapons and protective gear have durability values that decrease with use. The durability of weapons 
 has a chance of being reduced when striking an enemy; the durability of armor has a chance of being 
 reduced when the character is struck. When the durability of a piece of gear gets low, an icon 
 appears the corner of the screen to warn the player. If the durability reaches zero, the item breaks 
 and is utterly destroyed. An item's durability can be restored by paying vendors to repair it, 
 or using the Warrior's repair skill on it. Overall, the more powerfully enchanted the item is, 
 the more expensive the repairs will be.
  
  Staves are magical weapons used primarily for the spell charges they contain; each charge allows 
 one casting of the spell contained within the staff. A Sorcerer can recharge a staff using his 
 Recharge skill, but at the cost of permanently reducing its maximum charge level. It is also possible 
 to pay to recharge a staff. With respect to level of the spell produced, staves function identically 
 to scrolls: the spell is cast at the level known to the caster, unless it is unknown, in which 
 case it is cast at level one.
  
  Diablo helped popularize a system used in other CRPGs such as the Might and Magic Series, to handle 
 the many combinations of random items imbued with random magical properties. The only items which 
 are relatively constant are Unique items, which have the same types of bonuses, though sometimes 
 of varying amounts, every time they are found. Magical items in Diablo have an idiosyncratic naming 
 system; a particular enchantment will be either a suffix or prefix. For example, the Godly prefix, 
 appearing only on armor, adds greatly to armor class. An item with this ability would appear as 
 Godly (itemname) . The of the Whale suffix adds a great deal to the character's life stat. An item 
 with this ability would appear as (itemname) of the Whale . Magical items can have both a prefix 
 and a suffix; however, certain systemic limitations within the game mechanism prevent some prefixes 
 and suffixes from appearing together on the same item. Also, different equipment types draw from 
 different pools of affixes (enchantment prefixes and suffixes) ; some affixes are never available 
 on certain types of equipment.
  
  Equippable items can have various modifiers, and break down into three major classes as a result: 
 * Normal (white text) : Common mundane items without any special attributes. Most abundant in the 
 game. These can be bought or found in the dungeon. Rings and Amulets never appear as Normal items. 
 * Magic (blue text) : Enchanted items that can have up to one modifier prefix and/or one modifier 
 suffix. Unless buying one from a vendor, magic items must be identified using a Scroll of Identify 
 or a visit to Deckard Cain in order to reveal and enable their modifications. Most modifiers are 
 beneficial to the player, but early in the game it is possible to get items with negative modifiers 
 that make them less powerful and less valuable. These are sometimes referred to as Cursed items. 
 * Unique : Very rare and powerful items that may have up to six magic bonuses. Unique items can 
 never be bought from vendors, and all quest items are treated as unique items. Some unique items 
 have a unique item graphic within the inventory screen, but their appearance on the field of play 
 when equipped does not differ from others of their type as in Diablo II. Unique items typically 
 grant great bonuses but can also possess negative modifiers, such as the Gotterdammerung , a unique 
 full helm which adds the greatest amount of Armor Class of any helm in the game, but sets all of 
 the character's Resistances to zero and greatly darkens the dungeon, making it difficult to see. 
 Like magic items, uniques must be identified before their modifications become known; but unlike 
 magic items, uniques have predetermined stats that are largely the same each time the item is found. 
 An interesting difference from many games that require item identification is that unidentified 
 items can be equipped in Diablo. Their base attributes (damage and armor class) will take effect, 
 but no magical abilities will activate.
  
  Shrines
  
  Shrines create effects upon one's character and sometimes others when activated. The normal Shrines 
 found in the Dungeon and Catacombs (first eight levels) are labeled when the mouse cursor is placed 
 over them. However, the Goat Shrines found in the Catacombs and the Cauldrons in Hell cause a random 
 effect, leaving the player only with the result and the same cryptic clue that would be displayed 
 in the center of the screen by a normal Shrine.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The game supports several types of multiplayer connections. It can be played over a local area 
 network using the IPX protocol, a telephone line with the use of a modem, or by means of a serial 
 cable in a direct connection. One can also play Diablo over the Internet via Battle. net.
  
  Unfortunately, the game lacks the stronger anti-cheating methods of Blizzard's later games and 
 as a result, many characters online have been altered in various ways by common third-party programs 
 known as trainers . It is difficult to play a fair online game of Diablo in public games, as hacks 
 and duplicated items are common. The use of trainers (which modify memory locations while the game 
 is running in order to cheat) is fairly common and character editors are often used to give incredible 
 statistics to even newly made characters. Additionally, buggy game code allows any player to infinitely 
 duplicate items and avoid being stunned in combat using the Mana Shield spell. A typical duped/hacked 
 item seen online is the Godly Plate of the Whale , a combination of enchantments which actually 
 can never appear on a legitimate item due to the way the game generates items. However, a number 
 of legitimate players exist and may be found primarily on forums related to Diablo, as well as 
 on Battle Net. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UntoldLegendMan
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  When i got my diablo battle chest i was so dissipointed proboly becasue the fact that it was so 
 old but for old games from about 11 years old its sorta good My review for this game is stop drop 
 it androll it over to the trash. Diablo 2 is much better and there are really cheap deals on games 
 like this now. now if they made a diablo on a PSP instaed of a computer they would have made much 
 more money. Though UMDs are way much more money then a regular cd this game is so dumb. I think 
 that know one should by that game unless its a deal with the battle chest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainBlaze
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  this is the game that (i know this sounds cheesey) took the world by storm ,BLAH i can't believe 
 i just said that.... such a cliche, but hey , thats exactly what it did.
  
  addictive, innovative, freakin awesome, please, these words dosen't even begin to describe this 
 game.
  
  the ultimate (and original) dungeon hack and slash defend humanity save the world from the forces 
 of hell game of all time.
  
  choose your hero, weather he/she be a warrior (male) , a sorcerer (male) or a rogue (female) each 
 specialize in a different field, strength, magic, and dexterity.
  
  if you haven't played this game - you should be shot, or atleast be embarresed in a VERY public 
 place 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 6, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  A long time ago, on a PC far far away, I had gotten my hands on the first demo of Diablo, by the 
 legendary blizzard, and had immediately fallen in love with the game. Hopefully, you'll get the 
 same feeling if you happen to try out this game (go get the battle chest ASAP) .
  
  The story goes, basically hell's in civil war, Diablo's been banished and put in a soulstone of 
 sorts. He somehow lured a poor soul to stick it in his head, and voila, the lord of terror is alive 
 and well, with his domain below the little old town of tristram. You go through 16 levels of pure 
 insanity, each getting darker and more disturbing each floor you go down...
  
  The graphics at the time were very well, especially for dungeon crawlers, and the sound is literally 
 perfection, the voice acting is what it needed to be. The gameplay gives you 3 different classes: 
 Warrior, sorcerer, and rogue. All have different methods of leveling up and you can't help with 
 each kill to keep on going to see what comes at you next.
  
  If you want a cheap PC game to give you some hell to slash at, this is easily a winner. The multiplayer 
 online as well will still eat up some time for you to boot - Go get em champ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theKJ0012guy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  with this game you can play the rouge the sorceoror or the warrrior and your duty is to destroy 
 the demonic creatures that dwell within your town, i havent played this game for a while but i 
 remember my guy was like a level 70+ or something. what ever 9 got my level seventy from fighting 
 people online i suck at the story mode thing (IT IS TRUELY HARD TO KILL THE BUTCHER) but yahh i 
 recomend this game to fans of LordOfTheRings and medievil games. grafix: 9
  gameplay: 9
  sound: 9
  value: 9
  tilt: 10
  the good: weapons, grafix, story.
  the bad: you will be givin 
 no hints to beating bosses and you cant quit a mission to go to the next and come back to yours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Resistance_8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I am tired of some of these recent user reviews complaining about this game, two 
 of which, to my knowledge, mentioned that they played this after Diablo 2. You do realize this 
 game is over ten years old and helped start the RPG hack n' slash genre, right? These other users 
 are being spoiled by Diablo 2's niceties, then writing a poor reviews of Diablo. This is simply 
 NOT fair. Stick with Diablo 2 and leave poor old grampa Diablo alone! Well, you can tell by the 
 way some of the whiners type that they have the mentality of a ten year old and can't stand the 
 fact that this received a higher score for its time than Diablo 2.
  
  ANYWAY, I am playing this game through for my third time now and I am halfway through. I forgot 
 how fun it can be, or addicting rather.
  
  Gameplay: Yes, the gameplay itself is tragically simple, but it never really seems to get old since 
 environments change after a few levels and the enemies change every level. The game can drag on 
 in a few parts, however, and I say can because the levels and enemies are randomly generated so 
 it is different each time through. Another annoyance is you cannot run, so you do have to walk 
 everywhere. But, not to worry, if you truly enjoy this game it will not bother you. I do not recommend 
 playing this right after the second game, for obvious reasons.
  
  Graphics: Dated, to say the least. Graphics usually do not mean much to me. I don't mind outdated 
 graphics, as long as the game is fun. Do not judge this game by its graphics.
  
  Sound: Actually, one of the best parts. I love the eerie Tristram theme. I do not know how many 
 different songs there are for the levels or even if there is more than one off hand. O_o So I guess 
 that means it blends in to the game pretty well. The creature sound effects are also very juicy.
 
  
  Value: From what I see, Diablo is still available in many stores for almost nothing. Since it is 
 so cheap, I recommend it.
  
  Tilt: I shouldn't have to explain myself here, but I will anyway. This game is definitely dated, 
 but still extremely addicting for anyone who is willing to keep and open mind about it and remembers 
 that this game is over ten years old.
  
  96/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 28, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  i love Diablo II it was the first diablo i played in the series and i wanted to see where the story 
 began so i thought why not try Diablo 1? i made a mistake beleive me...
  
  basically all you do is run around and hit stuff in a church that has.. hmmm i don't know, 847627 
 levels to it! all you do is descend in a church and kill monsters, WTF?! this was quite cool at 
 first because i thought well this is good for a beggining but that was not the beggining it was 
 the whole freakin game!!!! in one little chruch!!!!!!!!! like in Diablo 2 (which you could actually 
 RUN in by the way) you had a lot of cool different worlds to go to like kurast and harrogath on 
 the expansion etc. And a lot more cooler bosses like andariel and of course Diablo himself and 
 his two brothers baal and mephisto. And on this there is one boss which is boring who is Diablo 
 and you move like a fu***ng tank!!! you CANNOT RUN AT ALL!! the only redeeming factors of this 
 crap is the beggining opening which is cool with diablo in it thats all. I am shocked that this 
 game got a higher score than Diablo II on gamespot someone must be taking crack
  
  if you want a good RPG play Diablo II or Baldur's gate TRUST ME!! they have some level of playability 
 to them unlike this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpectralDoubt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  The game has fun gameplay, horrific monsters and various quests. The game is one in which you click 
 and move. Such easy controls. but, it is as expected. Ultimately the games goal is to lead you 
 to fight Diablo. The game is a true classic. I wouldn't lose it for the world. Some may find it 
 to be utter crap. Look at the date it was made. (pretty good for its age) That is why it is worthy 
 of this score. No-one can combat this amazing game and its heroic gameplay. The game's closest 
 copy is the continuation. Good music.
  
  Pretty good graphics also.
  
  Get this game for intense classic fun!
  
  (get it at your own cost, very old game may tend 
 to bore players) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  + Very, very addictive and fun.
  + Graphics only use 256 colors and look how well they came out.
  - Game is a bit difficult after 
 a while. May not appeal to learners.
  - Hacking sometimes sticks and is almost impossible to battle.
  
  Diablo is an amazing game 
 experience. My dad got Diablo for Christmas back in 1996, and this was my actual first hack-n-slash 
 role-playing game. We all installed the spawn versions, while my dad played through the main game. 
 It was an experience that lasted us a few days without sleep. It's been a talked about game in 
 my family, even til this day.
  
  The game is pretty simple. You pick your character (Warrior, Rogue, Wizard) and thus begin the 
 adventure in Tristram. Basically, the story goes that King Lazarus went crazy, killed most of the 
 town, the archbishop is hosting demons in the church, and Diablo is waiting for you in hell. It's 
 more detailed in the game, but that's the few main points. What you'll really care about in the 
 game is leveling up your character.
  
  The game plays like any hack-n-slash. You choose your character, you click your mouse button a 
 few thousand times on characters, and then you collect items that fall. It's simple, yet the game 
 holds it's own difficulty and keeps you running back to town for health and mana, as well as repairs. 
 The nice thing about this older action-RPG is that they still implemented PVP elements. At any 
 time, you can turn on your friends and crack some heads until you've quenched your blood thirst. 
 It makes for an interesting battle of greed towards the end of the game. The more interesting thing 
 about this game is the randomly generated dungeons. You shouldn't run across the same dungeon twice, 
 which is very nice.
  
  The graphics are pretty amazing, not because they host high-polygonal characters or massive worlds, 
 but because they took 256 colors and exploded with them. Being a new comer to the Diablo series, 
 you may be a little turned off by the animations and the graphics, but you can definitely see how 
 great it must have been in the mid-90s. The sounds are really good too, but that comes mainly from 
 the monsters, the voice acting, and the music. The thing that hurts the sounds is the lack of variety 
 overall.
  
  Blizzard. net is still keeping the game alive, which is a good thing. It's been over 10 years now, 
 and for a game to keep on kicking with actual players, it's amazing. This is definitely a PC game 
 that should be in your collection if you're a lover of the classics. Truly a masterpiece in all 
 of it's glory (for it's time) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillswitchNL
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Where o Where to start about this game... it's just so good it dazzles me to this day. I'm still 
 playing this game witch is an achivement in it's own right, I'll play most games like 2 hours and 
 throw it away into a corner, but diablo just had this strange magnetic influence on me from the 
 beginning, I'm wondering if I will ever stop playing it haha. you might wonder why I like this 
 game so much, well that's quite simple it's perfect! insanely addictive, for the time fantastic 
 graphics, really good sound and music. the thing that kept me coming back was the fact that the 
 levels were never the same, so you could (if you want to) play it over and over and over again 
 and never heve the same experience twice! I even feel the sudden urge to play it again so this 
 is the end of the review ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  It's an old game now in terms of graphics and gameplay depth, but Diablo is proudly the pioneer 
 of the genre - Hack'n'Slash . This is the game that hooks gamers to spend so much time on such 
 a simple premise, 3 standard characters (warrior, rogue, wizard) with 16 levels of dungeon crawl 
 and a neutral town. This setting is such a hit back in '96 and an easy target for so many rip-offs 
 out there.
  
  Though I was happy already with the campaign once, I know fans that time who went through it hundreds 
 of times just to level up their characters for online play. It just proves Diablo was a winner. 
 The game still rocks even though its successor Diablo 2 is a bigger hit.
  
  What captivates me actually is the music of Tristam, so eerie and exotic. It's the kind that lingers 
 on in your mind even after you turned off your pc. Spooky but beautiful.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelsoldier666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  A great game for the time it was made, there are only 3 classes in this one, but i purchased the 
 expansion hellfire, The classes are not equal, thats one of the flaws of the game, but if you use 
 sorceror your pretty sure to defeat everything that comes in your way, the generation of the levels 
 was splendid, it could be a never endless game if they didnt put a max level, the skills in this 
 game, there was 1 skill for each of the characters an unique skill, i agree the part of finding 
 our books in order to get spells as well, the quests were entertaining and we kind followed different 
 quests since the character story was kinda random generated and you could have X or y quest and 
 not have K quest and that sort of stuff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizardmon5
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after a couple years of playing Diablo II (which is one of my favorite games 
 ever, by the way) , and I was thoroughly disappointed.
  
  It's entirely possible that that's just because I was obviously holding some high hopes, since 
 this game is the prequel (in my eyes) to such a wonderful game. But really, I just didn't find 
 it fun at all.
  
  To begin with, moving is so painfully slow. If there's a way to run, I apparently did not discover 
 it, and so I was forced to shamble around at the speed of smell, all over the map.
  
  And I simply died constantly. I gave up on this game after about five deaths, which amounts to 
 a little under an hour.
  
  My recommendation: Skip this, go straight for Diablo II. You won't be sorry you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hex008
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 19, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Take a little time to think right now. Have you ever played an Action role-playing game before? 
 You know, Dungeon siege, Sacred, that sorta thing? Did you like it? You owe it all to Diablo. The 
 first born of the action role playing game. The first of it's kind.
  
  Let's start with gameplay. As you've probably heard, everything is controlled by the mouse. You 
 click to pick up items, to talk, to read, but most importantly, to attack. This game is more than 
 addicting. You click an enemy, your character runs over an attacks them. But then, you have to 
 keep clicking. More. More! Each click is another slash, and you feel as though you're the run keeping 
 the battle going, attacking your enemy again and again until they fall. Gameplay is the root of 
 all gaming, and this is as game that knows just this.
  
  Graphics. Yes, we all know. Not good. They are outdated and un-detailed, but they get the job done. 
 Everything's animated, all directions, ETC. Not much to say, they just aren't very good. However, 
 it's not so bad you'll ever start to get annoyed or upset about it.
  
  Sound... Incredible. Whenever you talk to somebody it's voiced, as well as when you read scrolls 
 and books. The music fits perfectly at all times, such as when you're in town. The tune lets you 
 know something evil lurks nearby, and mystery lies everywhere. If sound means a lot to you, and 
 just sets the stage for having a great time, this is your game for sure.
  
  I personally love the game. I felt right a home while I played. (Please, don't make the 'he worships 
 diablo' joke) . I just enjoyed the game in general. It was a clearly amazing game.
  
  Still having doubts about this game? You fool! Go play right know! It's Cheap to buy! It's an incredible 
 game! You need to get it!
  ...
  Right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeyrCat
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 12, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  We've all done it. You went to the check out counter in the local grubby used computer parts place, 
 and bought three, used, mice. Cheap.
  
  It's because when you played Diablo you click spammed EVERYTHING like there was no tomorrow. Especially 
 if you were a Rogue... Click there for targeting and firing, click there for loot, click there 
 to move, click over THERE for the shrine, more clicking for more monsters.. Yea, this game was 
 the mouse killer. It's multiplayer functionality was great! Party up over the free Battlenet, over 
 join up over IP networks and clear out dungeons. Over, and over again. Although on Single player 
 once you cleared a dungeon it stayed clear, making it a little hard to level in my opinion.
  
  This was my first game. Not pc game, or ps game, my first game period. And though I can't get 
 over not being able to RUN at all now (being so used to the more recent games... you know, later 
 than 1997,) this game will always remain installed on my laptop. Even though I already had the 
 touchpad's buttons replaced once. What can I say? It's a great travel game!
  
  Dungeon Crawlers ftw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSephiroth
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 12, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  Diablo where one of the first games I played on pc, with Doom of course.
  
  Lets say thinks about the wonder
  
  Story: You are a warrior / archer [best class] / mage that 
 live in the city of Tristram. One day the High-Priest Lazarus enter the church and disapears. As 
 you investigate the church you find a way into the church's inner dungeon. After that you continues 
 descending going into the direction of the Hell itself, where you find the bastard Lazarus trying 
 to bring the Lord of Chaos, Diablo, back to our world.
  
  Gameplay: extremely easy to learn. Mouse Right Click do everything, with the numbers to use items. 
 The camera is fixed on top of the char and dont move. Thats good because you dont face hacked cameras 
 like Dynasty Warriors and Devil Kings. You have the main quest and lots of sidequest that generate 
 items and other sidequests. The game is very hard. You will have to level up you charm, import 
 him/her, and star all over again to get more EXP and more Gold and more items
  
  Graphics: fantastic to the age the game was born. Sound: Great musics, the immerse you into the 
 game. The voice acting is fantastic
  
  Resume: FANTASTIC GAME... if you ever put your hands on it, PLAY IT... it will be great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeshiO
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 4, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first games that really brought me into computer gaming when I was in third 
 grade. I remember playing the demo at my friends house after school and getting totally hooked 
 on the action.
  
  Suffice to say, Diablo is probably one of the coolest and most innovative games of all time. Game 
 play was a mix of hack and slash with a bit of light role-playing, and the action was pretty fast 
 paced and frenetic. I always remember my dad yelling at me to stop pressing the mouse button so 
 many times because I was going to break it. The setting took place in a sort of medieval world 
 with emphasis on the war between demons and angels. The interface is pretty simplistic, as the 
 left mouse button served as the attack button and the right mouse button for spells. Hot keys could 
 be assigned for different spells so you could switch on the fly. The inventory screen was one of 
 the first outside of the Ultima games to use a ragdoll type system, where you could drag items 
 such as swords and armor from your backpack onto your character.
  
  From that day on, I expected game characters to change their looks based on the equipment they 
 wear.
  
  At the beginning of the game, you are tasked with discovering the evil coming from the town of 
 Tristan's cathedral. As you delve deeper into the labyrinth, the scenery gets darker and hauntingly 
 claustrophobic. Re-playability is good in this game, as quests from the townsfolk can change from 
 story to story. Each map is randomly generated, so players can always come back for more. Monsters 
 drop loot randomly, so picking up a unique item is definitely rewarding.
  
  As far as multiplayer experience, Blizzard set up a gaming site where players could log on and 
 delve into the dungeons with other players. Personally, I enjoyed playing LAN or Modem with all 
 of my friends. Trading procedures and cheating on the game's web portal definitely was a precursor 
 to the MMORPG problems that plague some games today. Overall, this game was genre breaking and 
 magnificently made. I rated it a 9.4 because it brought me into gaming as a kid and it never let 
 me down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Diablo, was released during the mid 90's and has proven to be a
  classic in RPG gaming. Diablo is another edition to the Blizzard collection, the same company that 
 has brought Warcraft1,2 and the forgotten Lost Vikings. The main plot Diablo focuses on the forces 
 of hell that is corrupting the world of Santuary, particularly the small town of Tristram. The 
 7 evils are on a rampage and Lord of Terror, who is Diablo, has taken over the body of a prince, 
 son of the corrupted King Leroic. It up to you to destroy DIablo, and drive the force of evil back 
 to hell... Literally! The game allows you play 3 distinctive characters, A warrior, a Rogue and 
 a Sorcerer, each with a advantages and disadvanges. The Warrior is powerful melee fighter, excellent 
 for close combat, but lack skill in magic. The Rogue a ranged fighter who specializes in dexterity 
 and accuracy, the weapon of choice is the Bow and arrow. The sorcerer is a magician, ( not the card- 
 trick making kind!! of course!!) but a man who can conjure up wicked magic spells of destructions. 
 Either one of the 3 classes can be used to fight your way into evil forces. Much like any Rpg game, 
 you will have to manage your characters skills and equipment, buying potions, armor, weapons and 
 taking to townsfolk, whom will give you missions to accomplish. You can discover dozens of weapons, 
 items that can be magical and gold by thousands. The enemies can range from tiny imps to enormous 
 Blood Knights, some can wield weapons, others may prefer the usage of magic, either way theyll 
 try anything to kill you for good! Diablo is a fantastic RPG , and the must have if your a huge 
 Blizzard fan,
  even though its a decade old, nothing is more satisfying then bashing a zombies head with your 
 magic staff!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emi_nem_313
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Ha Ha Ha this is my first Rpg game I played, I`ve stayed up nights and nights and this game really 
 worth to play. For that time was a good graphic an excellent story it was just amazing. I`m sorry 
 that I didn`t have the chance for now to play the diablo 2 but I will play it soon. and for all 
 the people who had played this game I have only one word !!! RESPECT !!!
  
  Good game . Blizzard is just incredible one of the best that is for sure. I`m a tester my self 
 and all that I can tell is that everyone is talking about blizzard what why shouldn`t they :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: That game was Diablo, is based on the premise that you have to exorcise demons from a 
 church, you embark on a giant dungeon crawl spanning many floors and sidequests. So the controls 
 is pretty basic you use the mouse and click around to move around and hacking and slash and doing 
 abra-kadabra stuff your way throug evil monsters levels. Graphcs: The graphics in Diabilo are good. 
 Quite good considering the time it came out. The visuals, whereas they were good and fitting, were 
 a little to dark to be playable. At times I had to boost the brightness levels to see everything 
 and then collect it or kill it. There's no unique character (s) alsmost, everything that you see 
 you've seen before, Even the diffrent weapsons look the same. So for the genre, this game has excellent 
 visuals, but they get old and repetitive because of the nature of the game.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack is quite good and it really set the mood and makes it feel a little creepy. 
 Also the sound effects are also good, like the sound of arrows hitting stone, a sword slicing through 
 an the enemy. Alo Spells sound equally accurate andfire sounds like fire.
  
  Value: All in all this game can take under ten hours. But you can just play it again with a diffrent 
 character and also you can go online to do quest with other people. The only compaint is that there 
 is only one town to explore, not much plot. But if your only looking for on the dungeon-crawling 
 aspect, you will most likely enjoy the game. I give this game 8.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  I cannot believe this game has been out for a decade, and it still sorta feels like I got it yesterday. 
 Even though it isn't anything special by today's standards, many modern RPGs wouldn't exist if 
 it weren't for the Diablo series, because they owe so much to the game. Even some of today's MMORPGs 
 borrow from Diablo's awesome online play. Another thing about Diablo is that it's remarkably easy 
 to play. Typical RPGs, like Oblivion, are great, but managing your character's stats, abilities, 
 and techniques can be a bit complicated. Diablo has some character management, but it focuses more 
 heavily on fighting, action, and good old fun. The game starts with the player in a small town. 
 Talking to the locals tells you that the church has been desecrated and that all sorts of evil 
 has begun crawling up out of the earth, terrorizing everyone. You'll go into the church, and eventually 
 go underground to face the demons and mosters. Think of the world as a big tower that's underground. 
 The deeper you go into the underground, the tougher the enemies get, eventually leading the player 
 to Hell. It's nice because it's just straightforward, and you don't even need to worry about the 
 plot. One of the coolest things about this is that each underground level is randomly generated, 
 meaning it's sort of a new experience everytime.
  Had enough with the single player yet? Well, if you'd like, you can sign in to Battlenet, join 
 a game, and play with other people. Word of caution though: If you're still fairly new, other players 
 will mop the floor with you and take all your stuff... Not cool. But you can also work together 
 and explore each level, finding loot and whatnot. If playing with strangers isn't your thing, you 
 can also have a private game (LAN or Online) with some buddies. Here you can trade items, explore, 
 or again, just fight. Even though the game a getting old, any RPG fans owe it to themselves to 
 at least try it. And the beauty of it is that the game is pretty damn cheap, and you should definitely 
 get more than enough bang for your buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Diablo is one of the few RPG I really enjoyed so far. I normally dread RPGs because the kick start 
 time takes too long, plus controls can be quite cumbersome. Diablo makers understands gamers like 
 me and designed it in such a simple way that you dont have to memorise the commands or experiment 
 a lot to forge a good character to start your RPG. No wonder the game left me with a deep impression 
 that I can clearly recall even after 10 years of playing it first.
  There are three classes of characters you may chose one fromthe rogue, the warrior and the sorcerer. 
 Your mission is to go deep down in a subterranean world and beat the evil lord Diablo. Simple idea. 
 But its the level designs that made the game very interesting. Each level has progressively difficult 
 enemies of different naturefrom mere zombies to volcanic monsters, you got them all. And they 
 tend to sneak out of nowhere at strategic points. The game starts fast and its actions are very 
 conveniently implemented through your mouse making it an instant addiction. And dont think that 
 mouse clicking will limit your fighting powerwhich comes in the packages of various spells and 
 sharp or shootable weapons. My favourite had been the higher class of bow and arrowwhich enables 
 you to damage all kinds of evil in the most difficult and unapproachable situations. The game was 
 released in 1996 when 3D graphics were already widely being used in other games. This game also 
 uses 3D style graphics from a top angular perspective. In other words the screen shows the main 
 character and the surroundings from the top (distant surroundings are darkened and the torch of 
 the hero illuminates the near surroundings) . This gives a clarity to the gamers about what he/she 
 should expect or do next. But this also robs the gamers of a cool 3D perspective. Yet I must say 
 the Diablo camera perspective is not bad and in fact, makes the game play feel even better in many 
 ways.
  Due to this perspective, the scenarios look small. You dont expect tiny detailsthough you will 
 notice many in the game. The graphics was of very high standard during its time, though not necessarily 
 artistically that great. Overall, if you have missed the gamego collect it. I promise you will 
 enjoy it even though its 11 years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marshalldbdx
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  although its graphics arent surprisingly good for its time the gameplay and adventure you willl 
 expeirience in this game is just absolutley stunning. let me start with the beggining blizzard 
 always makes great cinematics its no surpirse to use diablo has really sweet intro movie. diablo 
 can be played on multiplayer which is just like single player but you have partners behind your 
 back your aid you on killing diablo. In single player you have a choice of Warrior, Rouge, or Sourcerer. 
 They each have there speacial skill which can be used at any time. You start off in the village 
 of Tristrum where there has been a terrible thing going on under that viallge. Monster's have been 
 coming out from under ground through the viallges chapel. The viallge people claim that a priest 
 name Lazurus is behind it for he led many of the village people down there to die for it was a 
 trap. The voice acting in the game is good and seems to fit the charchters very well. each viallge 
 person can tell you things that can help you in your journey in search of the reason why the demons 
 are apearing. Others can help you by selling you items or identyfying them. Some will give you 
 quest in which you will need to complete by going down to the chapel. The graphics arent too bad 
 the game also seems to run smothley for you can actually see the movement pretty well and looks 
 somewhat realistic. The game play is simple you walk around looking for monsters and you kill them 
 as they come one after another. The enviroments are just humungus with much to keep you busy and 
 little secrets every now and then even if you do fine the stairway to go down farther into the 
 dungeon you will still want to explore for all diffrent types of items of rareity which you can 
 use to kill others. Also the game provides a very dark look its hard to see what is ahead of you 
 in the enviroments and things may pop out of no where scaring the lights out of you making its 
 a pretty scary game. he different types of monsters in this game give a big advantage in other 
 types of games. There are many frightining monsters in General There Are Demon, Undead, and Skeletons
 
  sll with differents streghnts and weaknesses. You must kill these monsters to gain expiereince 
 through out the game also Most of the time these monsters will drop great items which you can use 
 further into the game. Overall this games is a must have for Blizzard fans and really with out 
 it Diablo 2 really wouldnt make sense but there was need for imporvment in this game. The ability 
 to only walk in this game made it take forever just to get around also the diffulculty in the game 
 was just extremly hard onc you got into another part of the dungueon you had to fight monsters 
 stronger then you and there arre just to many ambushes also the chrachters just die to easily they 
 can last in an ambush. Either Way the games a go ahead and buy for blizzard fan out there who will 
 get addicted to it easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theperson717
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  If you have played this game, you know what im talking about, this game is amazing despite its 
 looks. Considering the fact that this game was made 11 years ago, the graphics are somewhat decent, 
 they have a gba type of feel. But if your one of those people who plays games for graphics this 
 is one you will want to stay away from.
  This game though, makes up looks with gameplay. I serisouly think that this game is possibly the 
 most fun and original game out there (considering that it's the one that pretty much started it 
 all) . With totaly random items and monsters, you will have to try to make it have a bad replay 
 value (after about 4 times) . It has three classes and a magic ability level type of system.
  In general i would say get this game. If your lucky you will be able to get it for about 60 cents 
 or you could just run to EB or somewhere and get it for $5. But personally even for $5 its still 
 worth getting, this game RULES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryguybond
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the first games i ever bought for the PC. i only did because my friends were 
 playing it so much. My life was forever changed the day i brought it home, mostly in the sense 
 that everythign else in the world seemed less appealing. i played this game for hundreds of hours, 
 and why? BECAUSE IT'S ADDICTING! the graphics aren't the best now, though they were good back then. 
 also bad was the hardest difficulties which i don't actually thin i ever beat
  
  the good parts were how you could max out your spells regardless of which character you were, how 
 the dungeons always were different, how you had to search forever for the King's Sword of Haste 
 (da best) and get hundreds of differnet items. if you've never played it and are tired of the games 
 of today, pick this up for $5 at the store and go retro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrusgod
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Diablo is, without a doubt, a revolutionary game. It found a way to make monotonous hack and slash 
 not seem all that monotonous, and managed to spawn a sequel that is still, to this day, my favorite 
 multiplayer online game to play. Unfortunately, looking back on it after having played Diablo 2 
 to death, it's hard to appreciate the game like I once did.
  
  It seems that most of my complaints about Diablo are things that it's successor had, but was not 
 present here. Better sound, better graphics, a more friendly town interface, *the ability to run*... unless 
 I've somehow completely forgotten something, this game just seemed to move amazingly slooooowly. 
 The walking, the fighting, the everything... Maybe I'm getting too used to fast paced action games, 
 and so I expect that out of every game that isn't an RPG. I don't know, but I do know that, before 
 the release of Diablo II, this game would've easily ranked at least as an 8.0, if not much higher. 
 The only recommendation I can make is, if you've never played either of the Diablo games, and don't 
 mind somewhat dated graphics, you could do much much worse than to pick up this game. If you're 
 a Diablo 2 veteran who's looking to see where it all began, don't be surprised if you end up a 
 little disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Saigo-
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Diablo is an instant classic not just for being an epic title but more so for the immediate effect 
 it had on revolutionizing the direction of gaming. Randomly generated dungeons, items, and quests 
 allowed for massive replay value and an entire summer vacation lost to Diablo in the dungeons of 
 my own basement wading through hordes of enemies to right the wrongs of the evil one. A summer 
 vacation well spent! Then when school starts and everyone else shows up pasty white and red eyed, 
 you finally realize why you never heard from anyone else the entire summer ^_^. Classic indeed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrax-Sektor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I got this game as a surprise from my parents when I was somewhere around 8. As soon as I played 
 it, it was love at first, but that happens often.
  
  The gameplay was like many dungeon crawlers. You go around killing things and upgrading yourself 
 with weapons and armor.
  -This was the first to have unique items. Certain weapons and armor were specially imbued to have 
 unique properties such as bonus health or mana. There was a catch though. The special items would 
 be unidentified, so it's abilities were unknown until identified. Some of them also had negative 
 attributes.
  -A great game when playing with more than one person. Especially if you like bossing them around.
 
  -A free-roaming game.
  -Quests you can accomplish.
  -3 hero types. Warrior, Rogue, Sorceror.
  
  The graphics were dark and lacking of contrast. 
 Great for a horrific game! The humans didn't look the best but you're focusing on chopping the 
 zombies' heads off, aren't you?
  
  The sounds were normal. Nothing to hoot about. But some of the background music sounded like a 
 vaccum cleaner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darussell1958
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Diablo, in my opinion, is the first completely successful combination of role-playing and real-time 
 action to hit the PC. There have been successful RPGs and great action games, but never a combination 
 that played so easily and offered so much as Diablo. Until now, RPGs were basically a niche market, 
 mostly bought and played by diehard Dungeons and Dragons types. Similarly, action games have traditionally 
 been focused on inducing an adrenaline rush, with only the occasional half-hearted attempts to 
 incorporate role-playing or character-building elements. Interface
  So why does Diablo succeed where so many others have failed? There are several reasons. First, 
 and maybe foremost, is the wonderful design and implementation of the game's interface. The lower 
 portion of your screen tells you what you need to know at a glance: most importantly, your health 
 and mana levels. The upper portion of the screen is your window to the world of Diablo, where you 
 perform all real-time actions in the game. Now, other games have at least accomplished this much 
 (even Doom) , but not the simplicity and ingenuity of your character's pop-up screens.
  
  Many types of information cannot be included on your main character screen, simply for lack of 
 real estate. These include your inventory, spellbook, and character attributes. To solve this, 
 other RPGs have usually made you visit a special room or (worse) taken you out of the action completely 
 to enter an inventory or separate screen, do your business, then return to the game. Diablo ingeniously 
 uses popup screens that cover only half of the action window at a time, which you can access by 
 pressing the corresponding button on the lower portion of the main screen. Huh? Ok, picture this: 
 you're fighting a gang of skeletons, and you realize that you forgot to wear that new armor you 
 just bought. It would help your cause considerably. What do you do, run away somewhere so you can 
 get into your inventory? No. Just click the Inv. button to open the inventory on the right half 
 of the action window, grab the armor, and drop it over the the chest of your inventory body. Bam. 
 Now you're protected, and the whole while you've been able to keep fighting on the other half of 
 the screen!
  
  Also wonderful is the map feature. You can turn the map on or off with the TAB key, and it will 
 greatly improve your efficiency in searching and clearing levels. Unlike maps in other games, this 
 one doesn't replace your action window: it's just a ghostly overlay that helps you get your bearings. 
 You can quickly scan the map to see what areas of a level you have missed or to remember where 
 the stairs were to the next level. Since map movement and character movement are independent, you 
 can look quickly over the whole level while you are moving in a different direction.
  
  But perhaps my favorite feature is the belt, a series of instant use slots on screen where you 
 can keep scrolls and potions, then simply right-click on one to use it. This is a savior in tough 
 battles, because it allows you to drink health potions without even a hitch in the action. You 
 can also have a spell prepared for use and simply right-click in the action window to use it. There 
 are so many different things you can do in Diablo, but doing them in combination or sequence is 
 so easy and intuitive because of the outstanding interface design.
  
  Replayability One reason Diablo is such a great value is its replayability. Every time you start 
 a new game, single- or multiplayer, the maps of the dungeons are drawn differently than they were 
 in the last game. You'll probably have different quests as well, because the 5-8 quests in a given 
 game are pulled randomly from a set of around 40 different quests. Finally, the items and monsters 
 found in each game will vary. Combine these variations with the choice of three character classes, 
 and you can play single-player Diablo for quite a while. But you may never play single-player again 
 once you try out Blizzard's free online service, Battle. net. You can play endlessly if you want 
 to ... playing in teams or hunting down other players. And talk about replayability! There are 
 hundreds of games going on at once, so if the dungeon is picked clean on one, just hop to another 
 game; if the Smith doesn't have any good weapons to sell in a given game, try another and another: 
 each game will have not only different players, but also different map layouts and different items 
 to be found. If you do venture onto Battle. net, beware the Player Killers -- dastardly souls who 
 will kill you for sport or to get half your gold and an ear for a trophy! Most players on the Battle. net 
 service are helpful to new players, including most of the higher-level characters. But in any such 
 environment, there will always be a few loose cannons. Whatever the case, you'd better have an 
 unlimited-access account with your ISP if you start playing on Battle. net, simply because hours 
 will drift on by, and if you're not careful, you'll need to take out that second mortgage on your 
 home after all. Warning! If you mess around with your Network settings in Windows, be very careful. 
 While installing a LAN in my home, somehow I torched my 12th level warrior. Not sure what I did, 
 but the next time I went to the multiplayer menu, Chud was gone! All I could do was start over 
 with a new hero. Ach! Graphics Diablo is played from an isometric perpective, like Origin's Crusader: 
 No Remorse. One of Blizzard's nice touches is the partial transparency of walls downscreen from 
 your character. This allows you to easily scan for objects or doors, and you never lose your character 
 behind a wall as in some games (Total Mayhem, for instance) . This means that no matter what nook 
 or cranny you crawl into, you'll always be able to see where you are. In a game where you fight 
 by clicking the mouse on your opponents, this is vital. The graphics themselves are gorgeously 
 rendered in SVGA, and you have the option to zoom in on the action if you like or stay back for 
 a wider view of your surroundings. Many, many different types of monsters will be found, most being 
 offshoots of a basic type (e. g., there are skeletons with axes, some with swords, some with bows, 
 some that glow red, some that glow yellow, etc.) These are all technically different monster types, 
 each with its own damage and vulnerability levels. There are too many nice graphic touches in the 
 game for me to mention them all, but they include: when you use a spell and a swirling cloud of 
 magic momentarily envelops you; when you break open a barrel and a skeleton doesn't just appear, 
 but actually rises up out of the barrel as if he were crouching in it; when you get better armor 
 and your on-screen character actually appears different because of it. (This allows you to tell 
 which characters in a multiplayer game might be the most helpful -- the most dangerous.) The list 
 goes on and on. Suffice it to say that the development team and the artists involved not only knew 
 what they were doing technically, but had some inspiration and imagination to go along with it. 
 Audio The music in Diablo is enchanting, and complements the graphics and gameplay perfectly. Real 
 acoustic guitars are featured, along with other stringed instruments and flutes, combining to provide 
 a mostly soft, mysterious, and fairly authentic medieval feel. In times of combat, the pace often 
 quickens and drums or horn sounds may be introduced. You'll also find different music depending 
 on where you are physically in the game. In the town, for instance, you'll hear mostly the guitar 
 and flute playing a soft, open theme; while in the catacombs, you'll often hear more drums and 
 silence, mixed with wonderful creaking, crackling and groaning effects. The sound effects were 
 every bit as impressive and customized as the music, many monsters died with their own song, and 
 some of them are quite gruesome -- ah, the sound of liquefied brain matter sloshing on the dungeon 
 floor. Gross, yes, but usually in an almost comic way, and nevertheless consistently realistic. 
 Documentation Blizzard's docs are always a pleasure. They never simply give you the system requirements, 
 game options, and troubleshooting guide. Instead, they go beyond the call of duty by adding in 
 all sorts of wonderful illustrations of game characters and thorough storylines. The only sadness 
 is that most players briefly glance at the book and then toss it in a drawer because the games 
 are so good and so intuitive that people just start playing them. System Requirements
  Diablo requires only about ten megs of HD space!
  
  Windows: P-60, 8 MB RAM, Win 95, SVGA capable 
 video card, Microsoft compatible mouse, 2X CD-ROM drive. Note: you may need to buy extra copies 
 of the game to play over a LAN.
  Reviewed on: P-120, 16 MB, 16X CD, Diamond Stealth 64 video
  
  Bottom Line
  Diablo is, hands-down, 
 the best game I've seen in years. If only it had been released when I was thirteen, I may have 
 spent all of my formative years lost in the catacombs somewhere. The fantastic design, intuitive 
 gameplay, spectacular graphics, inspired music and sound effects, sheer number of monsters and 
 unique items, and the free Battle. net service put Diablo at a high level of excellence that future 
 releases may never reach 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 23, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  For me this was really like playing two games. The single player dungeon was a treat to play. The 
 hack and slash adventure was addictive with intense game play and interesting background music 
 and effects. The lower dungeon levels I explored the more intense and interesting the game was. 
 The monsters sometimes over powered me but the sheer fun was there. The items and levels you can 
 attain sometimes meant loss of sleep for me, The thrill of killing a boss was so much fun in not 
 only the kill but what he dropped as well. The multiplayer experience for me was a bad one even 
 though a lot of people played this game for its multiplayer aspect. I was a victim of cheaters 
 on numerous occasions and thus played online with friends instead of meeting new ones. With friends 
 it was a delightful experience adventuring the different dungeons with them. If you have the time, 
 install and play this game. You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BearWonderer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  This Game is Whacked. Off the charts in this date of release. What other PC games are cool in this 
 year? (1996) some are good, but this game rocks, it shapes the gaming world once more. This game can 
 set a time bomb that can't be defuse, what I say is that you should not miss this classic game. It 
 tells you who Diablo was and then. what are soulstones. Who then was the King?
  
  The Point is:
  Try this game. I know that this game is already out-dated but still knowing the 
 whole story makes you want to play it, to know the impact where Role Playing Games started to this 
 one. To test characters strength and weaknesses and most of all have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbracascade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  It's an old game but it's still fun to play once in a while. While the graphics are nothing spectacular, 
 the gameplay is extremely riveting. Killing a few of the lower level monsters are really satisfying 
 and though it gets challenging to kill some higher level monsters, (especially as a mage) , going 
 through dungeons aren't that hard usually. The items in the game are the core of what makes this 
 game fun. Multiple effects on items are randomly generated from dropped weapons and really good 
 effects can easily be the difference from killing enemies to getting killed. Enemies are numerous 
 through the dungeon but as long as you don't retreat into foreign grounds, you shouldn't have swarms 
 coming from every direction. The storyline is also exciting and adds to the gameplay. As the story 
 progresses you'll start to feel that something really ominous is going on. And let me tell you, 
 the end boss doesn't let your hopes down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justheretodl124
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Pros: decent story, fun game play, free, lots of cool items, multiplayer, easy to understand, cheap.
 
  
  Cons: the graphics aren't very good its not very hard to get past though, not much sound, needed 
 more plot, lots of cheaters and scammers.
  
  gameplay: I do enjoy the hack and slash .. but i under stand that most people probably will get 
 bored after a while.
  graphics: For the year it came out they are decent theyre not complainable.
  sound: Nothing very 
 good but I never expected it to be.
  value: its nearly free and you can get 50+ hours out of this game its really worth it
  story: 
 it was pretty good but this game would have been much much better with more of a story.
  
  overall: If you havent played it .. get it.. its cheap and great people still play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICEMAN803
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  Ahhh... Diablo. Thinking of this game brings flashbacks of neglecting my high school homework, and 
 pulling all-nighters. I started playing Diablo back in 2000, 4 years after it had already come 
 out. Once the Tristram theme began to play in the village, I was hooked. While my school work may 
 have sagged a bit, my Warrior was gaining new levels by the day.
  
  One thing I found quite shocking was the incredibly simple controls combined with extremely compelling 
 and addictive game play. Within the first hour of Diablo, the same thought kept running through 
 my head. WHY DIDNT I KNOW ABOUT THIS GAME BEFORE?!?!?!
  
  The great thing about Diablo is that it so easy to play; anybody could pick it up and become an 
 expert. The real challenge with that premise is making a game that is so good that ANYBODY will 
 be willing to pick it up and give it a try. Diablo achieves just that.
  
  I spread the news of Diablo throughout my little residential neighborhood. Before I knew it, everybody 
 was playing Diablo! Everyone from the expert video gamers, to the people who had never touched 
 a game before, were all playing it.
  
  Diablo is simply put a perfect game. I still play it every now and then to this day. The game has 
 been out for a decade now but its still just as captivating. If there is any gamer who still hasnt 
 experienced Diablo, you need to. It will be a good journey back into the classic days of Blizzard 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamez504
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This really is one of those games that really is a breath of fresh air, it outdid all games that 
 were out around its time, and i wouldnt be suprised if it broke all their sales records as well. 
 This game, compared to now, doesn't have particularly good graphics but you can live with them 
 easily and if you are one of those people who would say a game is bad because of the graphics, 
 then what an idiot you are. The storyline to this game really is spectacularly brilliant, fairly 
 long and especially enjoyable. Now i would definately say that this game is damn hard sometimes, 
 but once you get into the game and you start properly enjoying it with your custom built character... you 
 can become unstoppable. Another part of this game that is good (i also include this in the Diablo 
 II review) is the multiplayer function. In all honesty i doubt many people now use this feature, 
 but it is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco1402
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 9, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  This game is obviously one of the all time classics. And its fun to write a review about this 
 game in this day of time; thats because one can compare it now with more recent games and look 
 what was really unique about this game. So what was unique about it?
  
  Its a bit hard to describe because some of its qualities lies in its lack of pretension and of 
 course technical abilities at the time. How can that be appealing? Well, simple things sometimes 
 are more elegant and entertaining. One can wrap ones head around it instantly and enjoy the direct 
 and simple setting and goals of the game. Its a dark fairy tale with few characters, like: a witch, 
 some towns people, a cleric etc. backing you up while fighting the underworld monsters down the 
 dungeons. Furthermore it had one of the best supporting music during the playing of the game: creepy 
 and atmospheric; very intoxicating. But the best proof of its quality is that the format of this 
 game was copied widely by numerous other game developers. The effort reward system, collecting 
 items, the little stories inside the game, the creation of atmosphere. This game exploited in extends 
 the collecting and reward system, in a very addictive way. At least in the days the game came out. 
 And it must be said here that when playing the game nowadays, you wouldnt feel the excitement 
 of it as much as back then. Some things just dont have themselves repeated, and this a good example. 
 But thats just because all those other games copied and refined it so many ways.
  
  I played it recently, but stopped playing after a short while. Thats the thing with nostalgia, 
 you think there was more to it then you realize when having a look at it with the eyes of a veteran. 
 That doesnt diminish the joy I had with it back then. And thats where I based my rating on. And 
 if you havent played it, try it, its for sure better than most games on portable consoles coming 
 out today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Diablo is a role playing game that pits your character against diablo and all of his sinister abominations. 
 When you first start the game you're given the choice of 3 characters to choose from: warrior, 
 rogue and sorcerer. Each character has their own strengths and weaknesses and advantages against 
 certain enemies.
  
  The game and its story revolves around the small town of tristram and the dark cathedral that started 
 it all. This cathedral is built with many levels of underground doungeons beneath it. Each level 
 that you traverse, the enemies become more tough so you're leveling up doesn't become too long. 
 Blizzard has made it so that no 2 games will be alike with random generated levels each time you 
 start a new game. Personally I'm not much of a fan for this because I want to know where I'm going 
 the next time I play. Also there are certain quests that you will recieve that you might not do 
 the next time.
  
  1996 probably isn't the time where graphics in games were awesome and Diablo shows it. But at the 
 time of 96, players wouldn't have been bothered but that was 10 years ago and as a player of 06 
 you won't be impressed. Another thing that might not impress is the appearance of the character 
 when they place new armour on them. Their appearance doesn't change at all unless you get a new 
 class of armour such as mail or archanic armour.
  
  In my opinion, sound is the strongest point of the game. It's creepy as hell and that suits the 
 game just fine. Sometimes you'll hear the piano play low sudden music and sometimes the sounds 
 of a baby crying in the background gives you goosebumps.
  
  This game is great but might not interest anybody who played diablo 2 or world of warcraft. For 
 me though, it grew on me and it was addictive. My biggest motivator for playing this game would 
 be the suspense of what would happen if I kept fighting my way through the levels of the cathedral 
 and when I was finally going to face off with diablo. This game isn't expensive so if you're interested 
 in the diablo universe then check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 1.4
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, Diablo was saved when they made the second. The first was horrible top say the least. 
 I do not know what Blizzard was thing when making the whole entire game take place in a church 
 that goes underground FOREVER! I have to say it... Nothing about this game was fun. I never beat 
 it because I was affraid to be bored to death. At that time I was alot younger and felt my life 
 was too short to die playing Diablo. I wouldn't waist my time looking at this game on the shelf 
 to move it out of the way to get to another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The game that had a hand in starting the hack and slash genre and on-line play for retail RPGs.
 
  
  Play as one of three character classes; Warrior, Mage or Rogue.
  Extensive replay value; missions change with every new game. Carry-over feature allows you to save 
 your characters and then start a new adventure with your advanced statistics. Multiple difficulty 
 levels. Fully explorable 3D dungeons are generated at random, making for a unique run each time 
 you play. Battle a slew of monsters and demons with a wide array of melee and long-range weaponry.
 
  
  Not only did the Diablo series bring the hack and slash genre to the mainstream, but it was also 
 one of the pioneers of Internet gaming with Battle. net. Battle. net was one of the first gaming 
 networks devoted to a certain game that was easy to log into and start playing right of the box. 
 Search for an IP address for a game of Quake? There was no need for that with Battle. net and it 
 made Diablo one of the best games to play on-line during a time of mostly multi-player shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jm4847
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Game-play: This games is extremely easy to learn. All you have to do is talk to the people in the 
 town and explore the dungeon, killing everything in your way and collecting all the items you find.
 
  The difficulty increases gradually, there are points where it seems impossible to continue, in 
 that case you can always start a new game in order to gain some more level and skills.
  The worst part about the game-play is that your character can only walk, which is quite annoying 
 if you're inpatient.
  Characters: You have three characters: The warrior, the rogue and the sorcerer (all of which make 
 a cameo on Diablo II) . Unlike Diablo II your character can learn any spell (from books) and use 
 any weapon (as long as he/she fulfills the requirements) so the only real differences between them 
 are how their stats begin and how the weapons and armor look on them.
  The people on the town are there to help you with your Quests. There's a healer, a blacksmith, 
 a witch and a kid who sells rare items (most of them very expensive and not that good) but the 
 son of a gun will charge you just to take a look, so unless you have lots of gold is not worth 
 it. And Deckard Cain, the last living member of the Horadrim (the guys that imprisoned Diablo) . 
 The rest of the characters (the drunk and the lady from the tabern) are there mostly to help develop 
 the story.
  Plot: The story is very simple, the town of Tristam has been invaded by demons, their leaders have 
 been corrupted and most of the people that lived there are either dead or left the town. Once you 
 go deeper into the labyrinth you learn more and more about the truth behind everything. Playing 
 the game and discovering the plot is the best part of the game, so I won't spoil you more than 
 I already did (if you already played you know what happened so there's no point in repeating it) .
 
  Graphics: For a game released 10 years ago, the graphics are still acceptable today, they really 
 help setting the environment. This is where Diablo II failed a bit, while Diablo succeeded to create 
 an environment of darkness and decay that could actually scared you.
  Sound: The music is a classic, not many games have a soundtrack as good as the Diablo series. However 
 the character gets a little repetitive with his "not enough mana" and "I can't cast that here" 
 but that's part of what makes Diablo what it was, one of the greatest games of all times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  1996 was a good year for video games. It was the year Quake was released. It was one ofthe best 
 first-person shooters of all time. If I were to play it, I think that Id love it. Civilization 
 II was also released. It was a very popular Turn-Based Strategy game, that isoften said to be the 
 best one ever, and one of the best games in general! And then there was Diablo, one of the best 
 RPG games of all time, one of the best games ever in general, and was the 1996 Game of the Year. 
 It has now been nearly ten years since Diablo was released on shelves. Diablo took the gaming world 
 by storm, selling millions of copies. Diablo fans love the fun gameplay, creepy dungeons, and incredible 
 depth and randomness. In 1996, the year it was released, it probably wouldve been hard to find 
 a die-hard video game fan that loves computer games to not have Diablo. Thats how great it is!
 
  
  Diablo is a demonic demon, who was trapped for millions of years inside his soulstone. He, however, 
 finally manages to break out, and sweeps the near countryside, corrupting both Archbishop Lazarus, 
 and King Leoric. He then takes control of the cathedral in Tristram. Diablo is now forging an outpost 
 of Hell in the catacombs beneath Tristram.
  
  You take control of an adventurer who travelled to the town of Tristram. Now, you decided to go 
 on a quest beneath the Cathedral to eliminate Diablo, and end all of this. This game is very simple, 
 yet fun. Its very simple to learn. Click on a monster and then attack it until it dies, take the 
 treasures that it might have dropped, click on another monster until it dies, click on another 
 monster, click to move to a new location, thats all you need to learn. In fact, you may go through 
 the whole game without the keyboard except for typing in the characters name. That is if you think 
 you can go through without the hotkeys.
  
  Diablo is just a great game. It really is exciting to walk through the creepy dungeons, kill dark, 
 demonic creatures, and explore. The dungeons in the game are really well done, and give the game 
 a creepier and more exciting feeling than Diablo II. You may never know if a monster will suddenly 
 appear out of the dark abyss and attack you!
  
  There is a great amount of weapons and armour in the game. There are: swords, axes, hammers, clubs, 
 staffs, bows, robes, leather armour, chain mail, mail armour, shields, helms, amulets, rings, and 
 many other stuff. Plus, there are many subtypes in them. For example, for swords, there are also: 
 short swords, long swords, broad swords, two-handed swords, great swords and many more. This makes 
 Diablo so customizable, making your character almost any way you want. To top that off, you can 
 also find books in the dungeons to learn spells. Some spells include Charged Bolt, Lightning, Chain 
 Lightning, Fire Bolt, Fire Ball, Fire Wall, and Golem. So that would mean that your character could 
 attack enemies with weapons, but magical skills as well.
  
  The three characters are all very unique, and make the game even more unique:
  
  The Warrior 
 is mainly a toe-to-toe fighter. The Warrior mostly gives enemies damage at close. He is often used 
 with the heaviest armour, largest swords, deadliest axes and the best shields. He mainly needs 
 stat points for his strength and hit points if he is going to survive. He attacks fast with many 
 of the weapons. However, he doesnt like using bows, and magic skills are at a minimum.
  
  The Rogue is mainly a range fighter. She gives enemies damage from afar. She is often used with 
 light armour, and the fastest bows. She mainly needs stat points for her strength, and the accuracy 
 of her arrows. Her magic skills are average. However, she is toast in toe-to-toe combat, so you 
 should stay away from enemies from as far as possible with her and use light armour.
  
  The Sorcerer is mainly magic. He gives enemies damage from afar with magic. He is often used with 
 light armour, staffs (with the occasional sword-shield combo) and every book he can find. His skills 
 mostly go into his magic skills and mana points, and his accuracy should he fight his enemies without 
 magic should he need to. His range skills are mediocre at best. However, you may struggle with 
 low level Sorcerers because of a lack of magic skills and little HP.
  
  All three characters both have pros and cons. They are all great, and none is better than the other 
 is, should you use them right. They are all fun to use, and you will enjoy them.
  
  Your character must take care of four statistic sets. Different character classes will need some 
 in one more than in the other classes.
  
  Strength is mainly for heavy damage. Strength cranks up the amount of damage your character does, 
 and it also opens the door for more powerful weapons and armour. Needed by the Warrior the most.
 
  
  Magic is mainly, for magic of course. Magic cranks up the amount of Mana you have, as well as opening 
 the door for more powerful magic skills. Needed by the Sorcerer the most.
  
  Dexterity is mainly for accuracy. Dexterity cranks up your characters accuracy and quickness with 
 weapons. Needed by the Rogue the most.
  
  Vitality is for health. It cranks up your characters health. Needed by all of them, but the Warrior 
 should have the most.
  
  Now Ill move on the actual game.
  
  The customization and randomness really makes the game great. You can have different weapons, armour, 
 helms, rings, and amulets to make your character unique from the other characters in the game. 
 Not only is it that, but it is also very random. Every time you start a new game, the map, monster 
 types found and quests regenerate, making it have an incredible replay value. However, I was disappointed 
 with the fact that Diablo was quite short, with only 16 levels in the entire game. If Diablo were 
 to be longer and have more quests, than that wouldve been great for the game. Plus, I also didnt 
 like the fact that the quest regenerate, so you would therefore have to miss a quest you really 
 liked. Single Player characters have something to be disappointed for when you miss the important 
 Lachdanan quest was not in the game and replaced with the harder Warlord of Blood quest (hope it 
 wasnt a spoiler for anyone) . Plus, it was really disappointing not having all of the items that 
 the quests bring for the end of the game. But overall, this game is very exciting and random to 
 give value a high mark.
  
  Now Ill talk about the graphics. The graphics I was impressed with. The character designs are 
 fantastic, and the dungeons designs are also something to gaze at. Even though Diablo is 2D to 
 speak, the models of everything really overshadow that. I like the dark colours that Blizzard put 
 in the game. In fact, I would say that this games graphics are better than Diablo IIs! The monsters 
 are also more demonic and better designed than Diablo IIs monsters, which were more animated and 
 less scary. I havent found any bugs in the graphics. It runs smoothly and wont give you any problems.
 
  
  The sound is also great. The sounds of swords swiping through the air, arrows being shot, sword 
 meets armour and the creatures screams are something that can be enjoyable to hear. The voice casting 
 is also amazing, and the soundtrack is really good. The sound also functions properly. Otherwise, 
 it is still a very good game in terms of sound. It runs smoothly, and I have not encountered any 
 bugs with the sound. I hope that it doesnt happen to you as well.
  
  The Single Player mode is just great. There are many quests to do, and it just is hard to describe. 
 There is so much to do in Single Player. Single Player in Diablo is not boring, trust me! Many 
 people believe that most Single Player RPG games are boring because there is no one else to play 
 with. While that there is no one else to play with in Diablo, it is still as good as many other 
 Single Player games, if not, better.
  
  But, Diablo was also held great because of one of the easiest and finest multiplayer modes out 
 there, even today! Characters were allowed to use of the three characters, and either fight or 
 fight with other people across the planet. Up to four people can play, and the strategies shift 
 with clashing strategies used by other users, and enemies are indeed tougher. Now there are only 
 four quests, and even that from the Single Player has been changed. Only The Butcher, Curse of 
 King Leoric, Vile Betrayer, and Diablo are around. The quests have changed as well. In the Curse 
 of King Leoric is found roaming with skeletons on Level 3, not in the Skeleton Tomb, and he doesnt 
 drop his crown. The Vile Betrayer has been changed as well as Lazarus is no longer found in his 
 own level, but he is in a room on Level 15 with his own minions, not the Unique Monsters that were 
 found with him. And Diablo now doesnt need to be unlocked with having to pull the switches in 
 Level 16. Even though the Quest count has fallen, and the Quests themselves have changed as well, 
 Diablos multiplayer mode is definitely one of the best, with many of the others being Diablo II, 
 Starcraft and Warcraft.
  
  Like I did for Diablo II, I will once again bring up that Battle. net is a very good multiplayer 
 system, and Blizzard has done a very good job with it. All of their games are among the best when 
 it comes to fun and usage. It is very simple to use, and rarely brings up problems, with the only 
 problem being not having the Internet (but since you are reading this review, how could you not?) 
 or having a slow computer like mine that only messes up others. How much I really want a faster 
 and newer computer to play on Battle. net with people. Anyway, any Blizzard game has a top ranked 
 multiplayer mode.
  
  You will love this game if you can respect old-school games. It is really fun, easy to play again, 
 easy to learn, and had great graphics and sound for its time. It is probably very hard to find 
 one now, but if you dont have Diablo, like old-school games, love RPG games, and will play it 
 a lot, then you should own Diablo. It is easily one of the best games of its type. No questions 
 asked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Diablo has some very good things going for it. One, its simple. Point and click and thats where 
 you attack with both ranged and melee attacks, move to and pick up items. Two, the interface is 
 simple. items stack in your quick use items slot and you press a number button to use them. Three, 
 the progression is simple. Slay monsters and complete missions to gain XP (experience) to advance 
 and then choose what you want to progress. Four, the story is easy to understand. Your going into 
 a dungeon and fighting your way to Diablo to kill him and free Tristram.
  
  If you haven't gotten it yet, my reason for Diablo being such a success was just how simple it 
 was to play. That, along with the wonderful animations and great sound effects made this an instant 
 classic in my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franknight
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  First of all let's start with the title: Diablo
  
  What can you tell? It has something to do with the darkness or demons.
  
  When I first bought 
 it the first impression I had was terrorizing. I was about 10 years old and as soon as I opened 
 the box I saw all these flashy images. It was great. I did not have internet on those days but 
 anyways the single player is great. 
  
  The overall of the game is great and for that reason I give the game a perfect score. When this 
 game met the stores it was incredibly original. Both the scheme of the game (action-roleplay) and 
 the story. The game manual is a treasure, it has great illustrations and deeply explains the development 
 of the game. 
  
  The story refers to a town named Tristram. The actual game involves the town (with it's townspeople) 
 and what happens in a labyrinth that connects direct to Hell beneath a church that is in the town.
 
  
  You get to choose between three characters: A rogue, a warrior and a mage. Each with unique abilities.
 
  
  The warrior is the character for people that haven't played a role-playing game before. It is the 
 character that has fewer magic abilities and relies basically in melee combat. 
  The other two characters are for more experienced gamers because they need more training.
  When 
 you first start playing the game you don't need the manual (the manual is a great complement by 
 the way) but focus yourself on the health bar and notice that you can attack only with a right 
 click on your mouse when you are underneath the Church (In the Dungueon) .
  There are four sections in the Dungueon : The tombs of the Horadrim, Catacombs, Caves, Hell. Be 
 sure to look everywhere and kill all the monsters (look for the unique monsters) , don't leave any 
 treasure chests behind. Also look at your characters items: potions and equipment so you always 
 improve yourself. Don't leave anything on the floor that is really valuable. Be sure to carry always 
 a town portal so you can go back to town when you need, there are some places infested with strong 
 and devilish monsters that can kill you easily so be sure you leave a town portal near so you can 
 escape. Also remember to focus on you caracters abilities. If you are a warrior, don't spend your 
 money in magic books and bows (I only suggest buying the healing book) , focus on having a good 
 melee weapon and a strong armor (Body armor and helmet) . 
  There is also something called leveling up, when you kill a certain amount of monsters you will 
 do it you will have 5 points to distribute in your stats, focus on the abilities that the warrior 
 uses mostly: Strength, vitality, accuracy (don't put points to magic it is a waste)
  For the archer focus more on accuracy than strength, also on vitality (I don't recommend putting 
 points to magic unless you caracter's level is high) .
  For the mage I recommend focusing on magic. Be sure to be on the lookout to acquire the book of 
 mana shield. So your mana points become your life points also. This is the strongest caracter in 
 the end but the weakest in the beginning. So be sure to avoid contact with monsters always because 
 without mana shield he is the weakest of the three. 
  
  Anyways the game offers several difficulties when played on the Internet (something I really recommend 
 doing) . And a standard difficulty for single player game. As an overall the gaming experience improves 
 when playing on the internet.
  
  The game is not too violent but I don't recommend it to kids less than 10 yrs because I had my 
 nightmares with the Butcher and Diablo himself. The game gets spooky when you are going lower upon 
 the labyrinth. Not to mention when you arrive at Hell.
  
  It is better to play it on the internet and kill Diablo with someone by your side. I tell this 
 because I killed Diablo solo. So the experience was a little scary.
  
  The manual is spectacular. I remember a quote:
  "Be careful when you fight with demons so not 
 to become a demon yourself"
  This quote is true. You have to look at what point you share your life with other people. If the 
 other people don't do you good. Then the answer is easy apart yourself from them. Seek the truth 
 with all thy heart and ye shall find God.
  
  I remember another quote:
  "When all magic fails nothing is better than 6ft of fine steel and a strong arm"
  This is quite 
 true also. In this game you should be very recursive. Some monsters (when playing in Hell and in 
 other difficulties on the Internet -medium-hell-) are invincible against some attacks (example 
 fire) so you should try to avoid using those kinds of attacks. A good thing is you will never find 
 (at least as far as I am concerned) a monster immune to physical attacks .
  
  The ancient battle of light against darkness (this theme is touched by the game) . You are a hero 
 that comes to destroy the evil that lurks the land.
  It is taken as an epic story. Where only one hero (you) can banish the darkness that has taken 
 this town named Tristram. Will you be up to the challenge?
  
  This game is great I recommend it to all types of gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alonedog
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  Everybody needs to play Diablo to understand the beginning of modern games. The game has no major 
 bug, just like all the products of Blizzard. Easy and fun to play.
  Extremely recommended.
  The voices of characters and enemies remain in your mind for a long time: "Your death will be avenged", 
 "Fresh Meat!", "Rest in peace Leoric I'll find your son". The game has a great variety of spells 
 and magic items, so you can play months and don't know all items.
  The cinematics are the best movies in all games from that year and next to come.
  An impressive 
 ending makes from Diablo a real classic to played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunnie91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This is the kind of good RPG needed for PC. Blood, evil, and addicting gameplay. Diablo has it 
 unlike most RPG's. This is a game that a person should have if they own a PC, even a Windows 95/98. 
 Trust me, I've played it on Windows 98. This game goes better on new PCS though. If you do not 
 own this game. There is no reason to not own it, (unless you are under 17 or you are not allowed 
 to play it; the game is Mature rated) . The gameplay is addicting; leveling up and finding new and 
 really good items is fun. The graphics may not be the best but who cares. Get it. Oh and I forgot 
 to mention. Online play is free and it is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mand_450
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Diablo is one of the first RPG's i've tried, and for its time it was a fantastic game, and is still 
 great even today. While Diablo II after my oppinion has pretty much flopped in it, the first one 
 while still be remembered as one of the best games from the mid 90's. The graphics for its time 
 looks just fantastic (I did say for its time) . Its easy to learn, but very hard to accomplish. 
 Allready at first level, you can have just a few problems, and at level two, you can fight the 
 butcher, which is REALLY HARD, even if you are in a high experience level. In Diablo II, everything 
 was just plain easy and dull, but here even one monster can be callenging alone. Sound is also 
 well made. The music is good and the sound of monsters is even better.
  Diablo might be 10 years old, but its still playable. Want a cheap RPG classic, Diablo is your 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MickeySteroid
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Carebears deluxe! Wait I am talking about the wrong game aren't I?
  
  Diablo is a roleplaying adventure game that you can give a great customization to your created 
 character. There are 3 classes available to choose from in this game. The are warrior' (my favorite) 
 rogue' and' sorcerer. If you have the upgrade for the game called hellfire (like me) then you can 
 also play as the monk along with other features that I am not quite sure of. Anyways along with 
 a fun experience in Diablo you will also face the tragedy in others lifes . The game is not at 
 all funny or happy unless you are a fan of farnham the drunk. The game is prety violent and bloody 
 enough to keep a violent gamer busy for a long time.
  You can play the game with a friend online to add some extra fun. The game is a great roleplaying 
 old school classic. TRY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  i sucked when i first played it... peroid... i didnt expect it to get a 9.6.... the corpses never 
 disappear.... but if its a blizzard game i keep playing... warrior sucks my friend sugggested me 
 playing with sorcerer and it was PRETTY fun i guess... online was fun except the part when you die.. and 
 lose a lot of items... that sucks but i learned not much people die in dibalo anyway... i got it 
 for free from my cousin anyway... i traded it for my orginal starcraft i was like... i got a burnt 
 copy anyway... from my friend lmao.. this game still pretty hard but hard games that i dont really 
 think are GREAT but is part of my favorite companies like atari il keep playin... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  this is my first review so sorry if its bad
  
  Diablo one of the best rpgs of all time if not the best it has unlimited weapons and armor and 
 u'll never get board cause the maps allways change each game u play that really adds some replayability 
 don't u think?? there are 3 classes warrior mage and rogue and they come to tristam only to find 
 it in ruins and now have to explore in the dungeon while your hero goes deeper goes deeper in he 
 will find many things and figure out whats going on
  
  Graphics-10
  
  well this was made in 1996 so rate it from games back then.. even some 2d games now are still a 
 litttle like diablo
  
  Sound-9
  
  well the music and killing the monster sounds are pretty good but they get boaring real fast (well 
 for me)
  
  Gameplay-10 well if u read my intro up there u will now why i rated this a ten
  
  Overall-9.8
 
  
  its just a awesome game nuft said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 28, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Diablo starts out by you having to choose one man or woman who must save the small little town 
 that has been plagued by Diablo and his minions. There are three main characters the wizard, The 
 warrior, The rogue. They each have very different traits. There are three things that set them 
 apart their look, their specialties, and their starting weaponry. What I mean by specialties is 
 this; there are four traits you build up in the course game. The four traits are Strength, Magic, 
 Dexterity, and Vitality. The male warrior normally the strongest in the game has full strength, 
 weak magic, weak dexterity, and the best vitality. The rogue who is a woman archer has great dexterity 
 so she can use the largest of bows, weak strength, weak magic and okay vitality. Finally we have 
 the male sorcerer he of course has great magic, weak strength, okay dexterity, and okay vitality. 
 Everybody has their flaws and their strengths no one is better than the next it's up to you, which 
 you think, are the best qualities to have.
  
  After you have chosen how you want to be you enter into a small little 18th century town equip 
 with everything from a witch to a drunk and even a kid with one wooden leg. After you have talked 
 with all the town folk and bought what you thought you needed you follow to path to the old cathedral 
 that is where your quest begins.
  
  Diablo labyrinth created a great new idea that would revolutionize and abolish memorizing levels 
 and locations of items. Diablo created a new scrambling map. This means that when you get a game 
 over or get stuck and are forced to start a new game the level changes, so do the quests, and so 
 does all your progress you made on the levels. On the plus side you keep all your weaponry and 
 you characters points. This makes it easier to kill early monsters and early bosses. 
  The labyrinth is full of many monsters, boxes of treasures and boxes with traps. You find many 
 weapons the farther in the maze you are the stronger they become. The labyrinth has four parts 
 the dungeon, the cauldron, the caves, and of course, Hell. Each part has stronger monsters and 
 bosses. You find many items and books. Books are what allow you to do spells, same with scrolls. 
 But unlike scrolls you have to have mana to cast spells that you learned. It gets frustrating when 
 you are in a big battle and suddenly your mana wears out. You have items that restore your mana 
 but unless you have someone there to help it is hard to carefully aim your shots as well as restore 
 your mana. 
  
  There is a few ways of buying weapons. For starters you need to make money to do this killing monsters 
 and opening boxes helps (like you wouldn't any way?) . Then when you get enough for what you think 
 would be a good weapon. There is the blacksmith he can sell you kind of powerful and magical weapons 
 but they can very in quality price and quantity. If you want a good and expensive weapon talk to 
 wirt the peg legged kid. You pay him 50 bucks to see what he got I recommend it because some great 
 weapons have come from him. Lastly there is the witch she sells mainly staffs. She has great spell 
 books and scrolls but extremely costly. 
  There is also a few ways to buy items. The witch of course sells them but again she is very costly 
 if you have been slaying monsters like mad go to her and get scrolls to cast spells. She then has 
 mana potions and a few health potions. The second place to buy items is the town healer he sells 
 mainly healing spells. When you get to a good level the towns people start selling things called 
 elixirs, they are 5000 gold and raise one trait one point. In my opinion unless your rolling in 
 the gold don't buy these just build up you character the natural way. 
  When you finally beat the game you get to see an almost depressing and almost uplifting ending. 
 It all depends on the way you look at the game. You will either love this game or hate this game 
 you can't be in the middle. I highly recommend this game it brings days of fun and excitement. 
 Try playing it late at night. It will make you really jumpy and aware that will help you in the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zub1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  *Please keep note that some characteristic in the game (graphics, sound, and even gameplay at times) 
 are all graded based on the standards at the time of release. If you find any inaccuracies, have 
 any suggestions, or even spot some grammatical errors, please tell me*
  
  The World has changed significantly since 1997. We've been through two generations of consoles, 
 we've seen the great games come and go. Ocarina of Time, Halo, The Grand Theft Auto's, and many 
 other great titles. But out of the thousands of games that have been released in the decade, very 
 few can match the quality that Diablo brings to the table. Many of you with PC's most likely have 
 Diablo in your collection. But if you were late to the party (like me) and you have a computer 
 (and if you're reading this review, you probably do) than there is no excuse why you should not 
 own Diablo. Period.
  
  All great games come from great developers, and Diablo is no different. Blizzard is well known 
 for franchises like Starcraft, Warcraft, and yes, this game as well. Many of it's games have revolutionized 
 PC gaming in a wide variety of genres. Diablo is one these games.
  
  Gameplay (includes story) 10:
  
  There are three characters you can choose to play as in Diablo: 
 the warrior, the rogue, and the sorcerer. All three are equally skilled and fun to master. Without 
 spoiling the story too much, the plot goes like this. Many years ago, Diablo, the lord of terror, 
 was imprisoned inside a soulstone by a group of wizards. However, some how, he has escaped capture, 
 and you must journey deeper and deeper into a giant dungeon to take him down.
  
  Gameplay in Diablo is about as simple as it gets. You literally just point and click. If you really 
 wanted to, you could play the whole game without even touching the keyboard (though it is not recommended 
 if you want to access your potions quickly.) To move, attack, and select sub menus you use the 
 left mouse button. To cast spells and drink potions you use the right mouse button. It's as simple 
 as that. Unless you're a toddler or are incredibly slow, you should be used to Diablo's control's 
 right out of the gate.
  
  As simplistic as the gameplay is, it's also incredibly awesome. You will go up against large groups 
 of monsters and hack those dudes up like nobody's business! There are many weapons and spell books 
 to collect, and all of them are fun to unleash on your enemies. Once and a while, you will come 
 across unique items that deal more damage as well as raise your stats. They are written in purple 
 text. And very rarely, you will come across items that are printed in tannish text that increases 
 the power of your hero even more. All of these unique items can be pretty expensive, so even if 
 you don't wish to use them, you can sell them off for a good amount of change.
  
  The only weakness that can be seen in Diablo's gameplay is it's difficulty. It is more or less 
 on the easy side of the spectrum. There are times where you will have trouble tackling a certain 
 boss or a large group of enemies. However with town portals and saves at any point of the game, 
 beating your foes can seem more of a hassle than a challenge. Even the big guy himself is not that 
 hard once you get him one on one. Now with that said, the difficulty really does not detract that 
 much from the game, and it'll probably be much different when you play online with different people.
 
  
  WHAT!!! Did you say online!? Yes Diablo can be played online as well as offline with up to four 
 people. The enemy's numbers will correspond to the number of players in your game. You can either 
 side together to defeat evil, or you can fight each other for your loot. All in all, online is 
 a great experience and a good way to strengthen your character even further.
  
  Graphics 10:
  
  The graphics in Diablo are phenomenal. The environment in the dungeons and 
 outside are extremely detailed and fit well with the overall feel of the game. The trees (the few 
 that are there) I think are one of the visual highlights of the game. They cast perfect shadows 
 and the leaves look gorgeous. And the chances are, if you have a computer, you'll be able to run 
 this game just fine.
  
  Of course the enemies look just good as well. All of them from the lowest grunt, to the lord of 
 terror himself look fantastic. You'll really feel like your fighting for your life when these monstrosities 
 come at you. Items in your inventory as well as outside look great. The fire and lava look great. 
 The spell's being cast look great. What is there to be said? Diablo is just one great looking game. 
 
  
  Sound 9:
  
  The audio in the game really compliments the visuals. Spells being cast will make a whooshing sound 
 as they fly by you. The weapons hitting against your armor sound realistic. When enemies are attacking 
 you or fall to the ground, the all make grunting sounds that are unique to their class. There is 
 music that plays in the background. Even though it is not an amazing orchestral score, it sounds 
 nice and fits well with the game. (Is it just me, or is that the same music from Age of Empires 
 II. I must be off my rocker : ( )
  
  To be fair, there are a few flaws in the sound. For example: there are a few enemies that spit 
 a poisonous like substance onto the floor. When you run into these poisonous spots, the game emits 
 a sound similar to two swords clanking together. Now I've never run into a puddle of acid, but 
 I highly doubt that if I did, it would hear that. There are also a few sounds that feel overused 
 too often. But overall, the game sounds great, and flaws that are heard detract very little to 
 the overall product. 
  
  Value 9:
  
  Your first time through Diablo can take you anywhere between 10-20 hours. If you just want to run 
 through the game and beat it as quickly as possible, than it should take you around ten hours, 
 maybe. But if your like me, and want to do every quest and explore every nook and cranny, then 
 it will take significantly longer. Admittedly the game is short compared to most RPG's. And the 
 fact that your only going down further and further into hell seems a little disappointing (if any 
 of you have played the sequel, you know that it offered many dungeons and four lands to explore. 
 And even more if you bought the expansion!)
  
  However these shortcomings can be easily overlooked via the games online play. Plus, the games 
 does something very unique. Every time you start a new campaign, not only can you choose a different 
 character, but you can obtain different items, different enemies, and even different quests from 
 the campaign you finished previously! All of this adds a substantial amount of value into Diablo.
 
  
  And finally, in conclusion, Diablo is arguably one of the best PC games of all time. After playing 
 this game and it's sequel, it's pretty understandable why there has been a clamor for a third installment. 
 If you don't have this game, you will loose nothing in picking it up. It is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charlie2688
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Ok, Officially Diablo has been out there for ages and due to its incredible addictive gameplay 
 it has become a instant classic and even a kind of a genre, people are often referring to games 
 like this is Diablo-like.
  Lets start by looking at the factors that make this game so great
  
  Gameplay: The core of 
 the game and what has made Diablo so great. Basically you choose from 3 classes (Warrior, Rouge, 
 and Sorcerer) each class with different attributes and specialties that make them unique at the 
 time of playing. You enter a multi level maze the progressively becomes more complicated with harder 
 enemies while you level up and improve you characters while searching for new and more powerful 
 items to aid in your quests (and some side quests) as simple as this will sound, its completely 
 addictive and really fun.
  
  Graphics: For todays standards the graphics are very old but for the time they were really good. 
 The character looks different every time he is equipped with different types of armors and clearly 
 shows what type of weapon he is holding making the game feel more realistic. There is a good amount 
 of enemies that look very cool and their animations feel great. The dungeon starts as you usual 
 dungeon but later becomes more detailed and vivid. In fact one shouldnt complain for the graphics 
 because this game still looks good even today.
  
  Sound: The sound is a great and it is what you will expect from a medieval dungeon crawler. It 
 also sets a very good mood with mixes of scary ambient sound and battle engaging music. The whole 
 sound is done very well from the clashing of swords to the realistic voice acting to the monster 
 scary roars. The sound just sets up the mood for some bloody dungeon hack and slash.
  
  Value: The game composes of a main town and a multilevel dungeon, while the game is not very long 
 it becomes harder and harder as you come close to the end. Also the different characters and the 
 random quests with a massive amount of unique items improve its replay value.
  
  At the end Diablo is what it is a RPG classic with the premise of the good old good vs evil but 
 with a dark medieval theme and a lots of dungeon crawling with addictive bloody hack and slash. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  Diablo For PC.
  
  Diablo is not all that new anymore, in fact Diablo II has been on the shelves for some time. And 
 after playing the sequeli felt quite motivated to conjure up this review of the thing that started 
 it all.
  
  GRAPHICS : Well the first thing is that there is a LOT of stuff on screen, so the characters and 
 stuff aren't exactly gigantic. But if you press Z it magnifies the display tons so that your character 
 is a lot bigger.
  The game is played from an isometric 3/4 view, similar to Crusader: No Regret and No Remorse. It 
 works quite well, you can attack in something like 8 different directions.
  There are good points and bad points. Your character's face is yellow (at least the warrior's is) 
 to begin with and he/she wears normal adventurer clothes. You either buy or find better quality 
 (and better looking) armour and you can see the new armour on your character, it looks good. 
 
  The enemies look good and they all differ from each other, some tower over you so you can't even 
 see you character if you were to be surrounded by them.
  And the different places all look nice, with dead bodies in the dungeons and lotsa lava in the 
 caves.
  
  SOUND : Very good. Blizzard gave all the characters and enemies voices, but some are really bad, 
 like Gillian, who trys to hide her American accent while trying to sound Irish or something. But 
 Cain and Griswold, they're so cool. Cain is like a virtual Sean Connery. 
  The bosses' voices are very well done, especially King Leoric the Skeleton King. Very evil and 
 cold.
  You can hear enemies letting out piercing cries or moans as they are slain as well as your sword 
 swishing when you don't hit anything.
  In the caves you get to listen to joyful sounds of screams and howls in the background which is 
 very atmospheric.
  Not much music except in the town which is a very corny score played on a banjo or something.
 
  
  
  Your standard 'evil Lord of Terror coming forth to destroy the world and the doomed town that resides 
 next to the place where he lies' scenario, but carried out really well. Little side stories are 
 all part of the main one, which is Diablo the Lord of Terror destroying everything. You get to 
 find and read ancient tomes which give the background plot.
  
  GAMEPLAY : The theme here is Click go the Shears. The mouse is the main control. You move around, 
 attack, and do basically everything with the left mouse button and perform spells with the right 
 one. It'd be quite queer if you had a single-button mouse. 
  What you basically do is roam about the dungeons and catacombs and caves and eventually Hell, hacking 
 away at the enemies, picking up gold and weapons and items. Quite simple, yet fun.
  There are 3 character classes: warrior, rogue, sorceror. It's quite obvious what their respective 
 strengths and weaknesses are. Warrior: strength, vitality; rogue: dexterity; sorceror: magic. I 
 like warrior the best though.
  You gain experience points by killing things and at a set amount of exp. you gain a level. 
  
 There are special and unique weapons, shields etc. that have special effects like +23 strength, 
 +11 vitality and +20% resistance to magic. The controls are easy to learn, as there are only a 
 few buttons you will be using. Attacking enemies is simple. You just use the mouse and either right 
 click or left click on them. To heal yourself, just press the number keys (only if a potion is there) . 
 To toggle spells, you press F1, F2, F3, and F4. If you don't like these controls, you can always 
 change them in the option menu. 
  
  Fighting can be extremely difficult at times. The enemies eventually take many attacks to kill 
 them as you progress through the game. At the start of the game, the monsters are somewhat easy 
 to kill with a few exceptions. Don't get discouraged if you die. You just need some practice and 
 over time you will be able to defeat most of your foes. Remember to save every once in a while. 
 If you die you go back to the last time you saved. 
  
  Despite the challenge, this is an extremely fun game. There are many types of armor and weapons 
 to choose from including ranged fighting, melee combat, and magic spells. There are no restrictions 
 on what character class can use which spell. As long as your stats are high enough, you will be 
 able to cast any spells or wear any armor. 
  
  The spells are fantastic to look at. You can cast a basic Fire Bolt or a multi-headed dragon that 
 shoots out Fire Bolts. You can heal yourself if you run out potions and cast an armor that makes 
 you take less damage. You can cast a lightning bolt that bounces off enemies to the next damaging 
 all of them. You learn magic by reading books that add a skill point to a certain skill and makes 
 it more powerful. Spells are one of the best parts of the game. 
  
  The areas are randomly generated, so you can get different quests and level layouts each time you 
 restart (btw you keep your inventory) . There are tons of items to collect to keep you going.
  
  A good, solid RPG. It has multiplayer options but you can get hacked and many ppl do that so 
 i didn't use it much. But it cost like $19.95 now cos it's like a 'Blizzard Classic' so pick it 
 up. Plus you've got Hellfire the expansion and Diablo 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _50bmg
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Certain games stand the test of time better than their peers. Diablo is one of them. With space 
 as an ever shrinking resource in my room, every new game disk I buy gets its bulky jewel case and 
 paperwork tossed the minute i open the package, and a new, colorful, slim case becomes its new 
 place of residence. In the case of Diablo, and Duke Nukem, I still have not only the disks, but 
 their bulky jewel cases and manuals hanging about. This duo of "old" Windows95 software, which 
 doesn't even operate under XP, still lives in my collection. Perhaps i'm a bit sentimental, but 
 I cannot bring myself to throw them out. 
  
  To put it simply, Diablo is the best game I have ever played, and the only complaint I can think 
 of, is that it no longer works on my system. As such, it only lives on in my memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDeragusX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Back when this game came out, people's jaws dropped in awe. It was amazing. Besides, what is cooler 
 than leveling up on the way down to the fiery pits of hell to kill a Christian bad-ass? NOTHING. 
 I never expected this game to be very good looking at the case, box, book, etc. Never really dreamed 
 it would be a 'real' RPG. But, when I played it, everything I thought disappeared. I was hooked. 
 It was love at first sight. I played for days on end, never getting bored. All I wanted to do was 
 get to hell, to see what it looked like. Once I got to hell, I was like... "Ehh... I've seen better." 
 But, I wanted to continue. I wanted to see Diablo, I wanted to slay him. Once I got in his chambers 
 I was horrified actually, (Maybe because I was little?) . I opened the locks to his cage, and heard 
 a scream I will always remember. In fact, I made a town portal to get the funk out of there. Once 
 I killed him, I re-made a new class, and started the journey over again. This game is revolutionary 
 of its time. I was always hoping for a Diablo II. Looks like we got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forgetthename
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is really simple, the only thing you will use is your mouse, and a couple of keys. 
 You are constantly rewarded with new items, level up's and new spells and monsters to keep you 
 entertained. The downer is that you constantly have to click your mouse, and that will probably 
 make some noise. The game is rarely the same, since level design is generated, and you will meet 
 random monsters and quests.
  The variation on the 3 character types could be more varied though.
  
  Graphics:
  
  For 
 the time being, the graphics looks great, not much to say here. Today the game is kinda ugly.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is good too, all monsters have different sounds they make, and the weapons will not all 
 sound the same when you swing them, also spells have a lot of sound. Sometimes the sound don't 
 play though.
  
  Value:
  
  You can play through the game again and again, to get new gear, and you don't have to make a new 
 character to do so. There are 3 different characters to choose from. So this game can keep you 
 entertained for quite a while.
  
  Tilt:
  
  This game is absolutely entertaining and worth to spend time on even after 10 years from release 
 date.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baelrrogg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Let's just start off by saying that if you don't have his game, something is wrong with you.
  
  This game start off by having you choose your character type between a warrior, mage or rogue. 
 All three classes play very differently with the warrior being the melee fighter, the mage usic 
 his magic spells and staves and the rogue using mostly long range weapons. The game starts off 
 with you arriving in the town of Tristram where only a handful of residents are left. The town 
 has been decimated by war, an insane king, and the general sense of horror that permeates through 
 the entire town. 
  
  The game has a quest system where residents in town will give you quests to perform in the labyrinths 
 under the church. These quests usually consists or retrieving an item, killing a certain creature 
 or clearing a certain area. There are 16 randomly generated levels in the game divided into 4 environments: 
 The labyrinth, the catacombs, the caves, and hell itself. Along these levels you will be confronted 
 by all types of nasty creatures from goblin-looking defilers to magma demons to death knights. 
 
  
  The interface and inventory system are as intuitive as can be. You have slots in you inventory 
 where you can store items or drag them onto your paper-doll to equip them on your character. The 
 interface leaves a bar at the bottom of your screen when your playing instead of at the top which 
 actually make it feel like you have a better view of the battle. This bar shows you your health 
 and mana using two orbs filled with liquid. These get more and more empty as you take damage or 
 use magic. The bar also has 8 slots to carry critical items such as potions or scroll for easy 
 use.
  
  Just as the interface is simple the controls are as well. You left click where you want the character 
 to go and he will instantly move there. Left-click and enemy and your character will attack it 
 using his equipped weapon. Left-click on an NPC or object to interact with it. Right-clicking uses 
 your equipped spell. Your selected spell shows up as an icon at the right of this bar at the bottom. 
 Clicking this icon brings up the list of spells you have learned and then clicking on the spell 
 you want will equip it. You can also setup quick spells using the F1-4 keys.
  
  Graphics in this game are sharp and clear. Equipping your equipment will show up on your character 
 while walking around to a limited extent (all armors or weapons within a same class will show up 
 the same) . 
  
  Sounds in the game are good. Voice acting is top-notch (just as you would expect from blizzard... but 
 remember this game help set that reputation.) Creatures all have ditinct sounds and some even have 
 dialogue. The only bad thing about diablo regarding sound is that throughout the entire game there 
 is no music, only ambient sounds. This is with the exeption of course of the music in town. (this 
 little guitar tune does get on your nerves after a while but does help give the town a feeling 
 of despair.) 
  
  In conclusion, you should own Diablo. That or stop breathing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lysam
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 18, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Ah diablo. I don't know what spurred me to right this review, now that even Diablo II has been 
 out for years. This is one of the finest games I have ever played. Diablo was innovative and addictive. 
 The only downfall I can put on this game is its length, a very short game, but I still managed 
 to play it for around 100 hours, maybe more. I still come back to this game from time to time, 
 just to run through the memories. Nothing can replace "Ah fresh meat!" or "Can't a fellow drink 
 in peace... hic!" So unique for it's time. I became immersed in this game, environment was great, 
 the sound effects were amazing. This game was superb for its time. Kudos blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzms
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 12, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  First off I'll start this off with a bit about the game then say things that I like and dislike 
 about the game.
  
  Diablo has a good story, nice graphics (for when it was made) and has the best replayability I 
 have ever seen in a PC RPG. Literaly there is no end to this game (unless you finish it) , the maps 
 never stay the same with the exeption of a few key maps. The fighting system is good for a PC game 
 using the mouse to practically do everything. There is a almost unlimited amount of weapon's, armor 
 and items in this game. There is a decent amount of monsters to contend with but some of the boss 
 monsters like the butcher are just to tough for a starting character.
  
  The online play is just the single-player story with friends so its nothing special, but there 
 are a few extra items you can get over the net. Diablo I was also awarded game of the year when 
 it came out and soon was known worldwide, but this is where some problems game around, many religious 
 groups started to ban people in there religion from playing this game, but this is no longer true.
 
  
  Even though the game only lasts 16 levels with a few extra floors (quests) but this game is for 
 everyone that wants a decent RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Resident-Evil-
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  This game is so additive that you just will not want to quite graphics are not tha great but the 
 game makes up for it self. The best part is everthing is random so you never know whats going to 
 happen or what your going to get each lel is very different and some are hard others are easy there 
 are also many quest but again all at random. There are many items you can pick up that include 
 weapons arrmor health ect. You can also trade or buy more items. There a also alot of bosses or 
 specials types of bad guys. rember to save alot because if you founf something nice and you die 
 you lost it for good because it random you may not get it again **** Luck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnny27
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Diablo is one of the best action RPG's of all time. It set the bar extremely high for all future 
 action RPG that came after it and spawned numerous copy cats cough.. cough... fate.
  
  Diablo is simply a master piece. Graphics wise the game looks horrible by todays standard of graphics 
 but in 1996 these where good graphics. Don't let the crappy graphics turn you away from playing 
 this game as i've never been one to judge a game by its graphics but rather by gameplay which is 
 Diablo has very solid game play.
  
  In Diablo you play the role of a wander who wanders into the town of tristrim. There you learn 
 about the currupted church and the evil demon diablo you then set out to kill Diablo. You can play 
 as one of 3 characters a Mage, Knight, or Rogue. Each has different strengths and weaknesses. For 
 example Mage is the fastest at casting magic but is the slowest at attacking with weapons Warrior 
 on the other hand is slowest at casting spells but can swing a sword faster then any other class. 
 These weaknesses and strengths of classes allow the player to choice the class that best suits 
 there style of play. For players who want intense action and just want to rush in and kill every 
 monster in sight then warrior is the best class for you because of they immense power and high 
 health. For more strategic player mage is the class for you because of the weak phicical attack 
 they realy soley onmagic and using the right spell at the right time is key to being a good mage.
 
  
  The level system in diablo is fairly simple each time you kill a monster you get experience when 
 you get enough experience points you go up one level and get 5 attribute points which you use to 
 add to your charcters attributes. Its best not to spread your points around to evenly but rather 
 to increase the attributes most important to your characters. Combat in Diablo is also pretty simple 
 you click on a monster to attack them and right click to cast a spell on them. There are many diffrent 
 weapons to choice from and you'll find it nessacery to upgrade you armor and weapons for more powerful 
 stuff as the game increases in difficulty with each level you go down. Diablo is relatively short 
 as there only 16 levels in the game and you can beat the game in about a week but that still doesn't 
 change the fact you'll have a blast playing diablo it will be the best week of your life!!! so 
 what are you waiting for if you haven't already played this game go buy a copy now its like 5$ 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Eat_Nails
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 17, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  The original Diablo, by Blizzard, is one of the first Blizzard Entertainment games i played. Very 
 nice online play. However, it is a very old game, and the graphics arent the best, actually, they 
 suck. Also, people on multiplayer can pk (player kill) you at anytime when in a combat zone (not 
 in town) and steal your equiptment. Most players on Diablo, including me, know the cheat of how 
 to dupe. You drop an item, and right as u pick it back up u select a potion from your belt. This 
 dupe cheat makes the game less fun. Your character, either an rouge, mage, or knight (i know its 
 not exact) moves TREMENDOUSLY SLOW. There is no option to run or walk. Your charicter will basically 
 cripple over to where you click. There are still a good amount of people who play this game online, 
 but most have moved to Diablo 2, a MUCH better RPG by Blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  The series which I have played the longest is either Diablo or Warcraft. I have played both Diablo 
 I and Diablo II to death, playing each of the characters at least 3 times, getting their feel. 
 Here's what I found out about Diablo I in my time playing it:
  
  1) Single Player is crap. Sure, you get to do quests, but you have to do everything by yourself, 
 and where this game excels is multi-player. Get a bunch of your friends together and explore the 
 catacombs together.
  
  2) Watch that friendly fire! Unlike Diablo II, this game never lets you actually form a party, 
 so you can damage each other. This is especially important to remember for the Rogue and the Sorcerer, 
 who's long range attacks can easily damage their allies.
  
  3) Walk don't run. This is one of, if not the worst aspect of the game. Unlike Diablo II, you have 
 to walk everywhere in this game. There is no running at all, and it becomes very apparent that 
 it is lacking when you want to go from Wert, the peg-legged boy down to Cain.
  
  4) The feel of this game is excellent. You really do get the feeling of being alone in this huge 
 dungeon, even if you are with your friends. The fact that you can't tell how much health your enemy 
 has is good sometimes, but can be quite annoying at others, but I think it adds to this aspect 
 of the game.
  
  5) Know your character. As other games, you need to know where your character is good at, and where 
 it is lacking. The sorcerer won't be able to fight the Butcher by himself for at least 6 or 7 levels, 
 getting books all the while. The warrior has to actually walk up and attack archers and other such 
 enemies, which can get you hurt plenty as you are making your trek. The rogue, I am sorry to say, 
 is the easiest to play in my opinion, being able to attack at long range, and not having to worry 
 about really being attacked in melee combat as much as the other two. The sorcerer of course can 
 attack at long rang, but he has to worry about mana, which in this game does not regenerate over 
 time. Which I miss greatly.
  
  That is all from me, have fun and watch out for traps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Diablo is one of the best games ever. Original, fun, and may be the most addictive game that somebody 
 create before it. The darkness of the thematic, the playmode, the characters, infinity weapons 
 and armors, itmes; all this makes Diablo a entire game, and whom doesn't have any fault.
  
  The playmode is incredible, in teh beginning cost a little to become familiar with the mouse control, 
 but after a few hours you'll be master of your character control.
  
  The difficulty is perfect, little hard to give more hours of fun. The differences between the tree 
 characters are perfect to play the game with all characters and enjoy it eauql in the first and 
 in the last character.
  
  The graphics and sounds are good, you really will feel fear when a huge demon like Diablo comes 
 to you to kill you. This thanks to the good graphics and perfect sounds and music.
  
  The level increase is a key to the addictive of the game; every time you want to be stronger and 
 stronger, cause your enemies are too. And you want to find better weapons and armors to be able 
 to kill Diablo. At same time you must to decide how to grow up your characteristics; in base to 
 that you define your weapons, and abilities.
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Blizzard Entertainment is practically a household name in the gaming industry. One of the series' 
 that Blizzard is most known for is Diablo, and the original Diablo is without a doubt worthy of 
 being called one of Blizzard's best.
  
  In Diablo you start by creating a character from one of three classes: Warrior, Rogue, or Sorcerer. 
 Though you can only customize their name each of the three classes is finely detailed, as each 
 has their own unique looks. The story begins with your character returning to Tristram; which is 
 hinted at being their hometown. In the cathedral on the outskirts of town horrible monsters have 
 taken up residence, and your character must plow through numerous monsters to reach his, or her 
 goal.
  
  The gameplay in Diablo is fairly generic. You kill monsters in randomly generated dungeon levels 
 to gain experience, and to find magical and unique items. Every time you level up you can spend 
 five stat points to raise your core ablities which consist of the usual states: Strength, dexterity, 
 etc. Throughout the game you can also take on a good deal of randomly generated quests which often 
 yield great rewards to successful adventurers.
  
  The graphics in Diablo are nothing special by today's standards, but for their time they were definately 
 high quality. Everything is well drawn, and well animated. The graphics are also detailed.
  
  The audio is satisfactory. The music is nothing special, and voice acting is rare, but what 
 is there is excellent. Sound effects are fairly generic, but they accomplish what they set out 
 to do.
  
  Diablo is a classic action RPG that fans of the genre should try at least once. Because of its 
 randomly generated quests and dungeons it is very replayable, and will list players a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 6, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  Beating evil demons and skeletons in dungeon after dungeon only to get to the mother of all demons, 
 el Diablo.
  The random dungeon generator makes for some fun play since you probably won't travel a dungeon 
 twice.
  Cutting your friend's ear off.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  Not really a deep game.
  Wearing items really doesn't change your character. Kind of boring.
  Taking the butcher at 
 level 1... alone.
  
  :Overall:
  Blizzard hasn't really made a crap game, ever. This was new to most RPGers and in the end, probably 
 the death of typical Dungeon & Dragon RPG games. Well, for a little while at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstrike00
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  there is no better game to date. diablo is the classic that change RPG forever. authough made quite 
 along time ago this game still holds it fire with many players getting time warped and playing 
 for hours on end. ive spent much of my life on this game and i think that if you dont own either 
 the spawn of the true copy your CRAZY go and buy it now or forever live in dispair
  
  some epic battles have been fought on multiplayer with manybeing televised across the asian community,
 
  
  BUY IT BUY ITBUY IT BUY ITBUY IT BUY ITBUY IT BUY ITBUY IT BUY ITBUY IT BUY ITBUY IT BUY ITBUY 
 IT BUY ITBUY IT BUY ITBUY IT BUY ITBUY IT BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnorde
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 3, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those classic games that never becomes boring, no matter how many times you play 
 it.
  I bought this game around November '05 (and never played it before!) but I instantly loved it and 
 now it's one of my favorite games ever!
  
  It's very simple, basically when you start a new game you get to choose from 3 different characters, 
 a Warrior, a Rogue or a Sorcerer.
  I'd recommend the Warrior to beginners, with a Warrior character you will mainly use weapons such 
 as axes, swords and clubs.
  Rogue characters use bows, and as a Sorcerer you will use magic.
  
  After you've chosen your 
 character you will start in a small town called Tristram, there are a couple of NPC's which often 
 have a quest for you, mostly for finding an item for them or killing some random evil demonic enemy.
 
  Of course there is also a healer named Pepin who sells potions, and there's a blacksmith called 
 Griswold who sells weapons, and a couple more but you'll just have to see that for yourself.
  I must also mention that the Tristram town tune is one of the greatest things I've ever heard, 
 I often start up Diablo just to listen to the Tristram town tune (yes, it's THAT good!)
  Anyway, after you've been exploring this small town for a couple of minutes you'll eventually find 
 a labyrinth which leads to the dungeon.
  
  And here is where all the fun starts!
  The game has something like 13 levels if I remember correctly, and through all these levels you'll 
 be fighting dozens of skeletons, zombies, bats, witches and I could go on forever, and eventually 
 you'll be fighting the mighty Lord of Terror himself; Diablo!
  
  So if you're into hack&slash/RPG games, buy this old classic, you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Diablo is one of the best games ever. Original, fun, and may be the most addictive game that somebody 
 create before it. The darkness of the thematic, the playmode, the characters, infinity weapons 
 and armors, itmes; all this makes Diablo a entire game, and whom doesn't have any fault. 
  
  The playmode is incredible, in teh beginning cost a little to become familiar with the mouse 
 control, but after a few hours you'll be master of your character control.
  
  The difficulty is perfect, little hard to give more hours of fun. The differences between the tree 
 characters are perfect to play the game with all characters and enjoy it eauql in the first and 
 in the last character.
  
  The graphics and sounds are good, you really will feel fear when a huge demon like Diablo comes 
 to you to kill you. This thanks to the good graphics and perfect sounds and music.
  
  The level increase is a key to the addictive of the game; every time you want to be stronger and 
 stronger, cause your enemies are too. And you want to find better weapons and armors to be able 
 to kill Diablo. At same time you must to decide how to grow up your characteristics; in base to 
 that you define your weapons, and abilities.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 04l27
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 24, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  It is a good game & I think many people will like it .It was developed by blizzard in November 
 30, 1996 and was a hit.
  there are three main 
  It is a fun game to play and there are many quests andit depends on the
  luck and there are many 
 many unique weapons, armors, potions, scrolls etc you can also play it on battlenet. Diablo also was 
 voted game of the year. it was developed and published by blizzard. whoever who likes to fight evil 
 will like to play this game. so I think many peoplel will like it. Add it to your game collection 
 now
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: puremage1209
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  The game is a masterpiece. Your main objective is to kill a hell-summoned demon named diablo. You 
 need to fight a variety of bosses to get to him, and go deeper into a dungeon of a hell-rissen 
 chapple which connects directly to hell. you need to fight your way through different enemies in 
 different places like catacombs The gameplay is one of the best ive ever seen. there is multiplayer 
 that is supported over the internet. The graphics are bd, i will say that. The sound sounds like 
 you are inside a toilet in a bowel movement hospitle. The game can be bought for about 15 dollars 
 on ebay. the game is still widely played and that is saying something considering that it came 
 out about 7 years. It is an instant classic, and a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razor_bblade
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  This game is truely a legend the sound graphics and the pure gameplay rock. This game was truely 
 a legend when it came out and still is now. One of the best features of this game is the forever 
 changing locations you go to there is a different dungeon or castle layout each time you play. 
 I think that there should be more charachters but the ones you can choose from are pretty good. 
 You can also talk to lots of different people and stuff which is cool. Overall you should buy this 
 game because you should be able to get it now for very cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kitsune0
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  Has a good solid multi-player mode as well as a solid single player mode.
  
  The only thing I never liked about this series is the lack of options for what kind of character 
 you can play. A warrior or mage or rogue come on my 1980's version of the dragonlance game had 
 more characters for it than that!
  
  Overall the game has good graphics for its day and has a lot of replay ability. If you get the 
 hellfire expansion you can add several more hours of fun to the game. 
  
  Most will enjoy the game with such a short learning curve and hours of gameplay with an interesting 
 story that you can change just by starting over with the same character I would say if you see 
 this on a shelf and have enough money pick this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  Diablo is the game that all PC dungon crawlers are based on. It's the classic story about villagers 
 rising up against the devil and his minions underground. Finding potions, killing hords of demons 
 and zombies and goblins had never been this much fun. Blizzard had revolutionized another genre, 
 the modern dungeon crawler with this outstanding release. Sure, the graphics weren't the best, 
 but the action was unmatched and the memories are unforgettable. It's an old-school game with a 
 world of replay value, especially online over Battle. net. The biggest strength of Diablo was online 
 co-op. Fighting hoards of demons is fun alone, but with twice the damage, it's much more fun. The 
 only problem is when your partner (s) kept stealing your money and weapons... This is one of those 
 games that will go down in history as one of the founders of a genre, and one of the best games 
 of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahamut50
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I'll never forget the day i put diablo in my computer and installed it. it was my first game on 
 computer, and i was very excited to see how good it really was. as soon as i played, i cast my 
 doubts to the wind. it was the game of the 90's and still is in a way now.
  
  Gameplay: Very addictive right from the get-go, diablo was one of the games that started the "one 
 more" trend that civilization had made. this is arguably the best aspect of diablo at the time and 
 now, and its still a great gameplay mechanic, albeit a little rusty now, but still worth playing 
 to this day. a huge 10
  
  Graphics: cant argue with this one, cause this is another well done area of gaming history. back 
 then this was what you called brutal gaming, and it did not dissapoint. since graphics are not 
 the main aspect of a game, you may not have noticed it as much as the game itself, but the graphics 
 were definetly top notch at the time. a hefty 9
  
  Sound: Definetly some awesome music sprinkled throughout the game, with a slew of creepy melodys 
 to keep you in the mood: your in hell, and your the hope for man, or atleast a prince. a nice 9 
 here too
  
  value: If i did not give this a ten, it would be a crime. this game is eternal as the saying should 
 go, and i would not think for a second that this isnt a pinnacle in gaming. 10
  
  tilt: simply, this is the best action rpg ever made, if not in interesting gameplay mechanics, then 
 in sheer quality of execution. best game ive played to date for overall.10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Very short, but addictive game. Horrible graphics, ok music, but great for it's time. Gameplay 
 was a little buggy. The story was definitly unique. The items were scarce, and things to do as 
 missions go were few. The online content was fun. ( ( (Aside from being able to dupe your equipment. 
 My favorite was renaming a set of armor, and selling it to the un suspecting player to later find 
 out it was junk he received. Or rezzing someone, and killing them over, and over. The days when 
 they didn't do much for hacking.) ) ) This is one of the games that help start me playing hardcore. 
 I tried playing this not to long ago, and just couldn't. It sucks to bad now. I'd rather play something 
 else. Having this title for 10 years kinda scares me. The graphics have come such a long way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bologa
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off with you choosing a warrior. You have the choice between a fighter, an archer 
 or a magician. Each warrior has their special abilities that you can use in battle (ex: the fighter 
 has a skill that lets you repair your weapons and armour) . Once you have chosen your warrior the 
 story begins. You start off in a little town called Tristram and you are given a quest to investigate 
 the church because it is said that demons roam inside. Sure enough there are demons and some of 
 them are pretty nasty. 
  
  There is a good selection of monsters to kill in this game and there are a lot of them that have 
 "evolutions" (which basically means they change colour and are harder to kill) . The boss fights 
 are great. The first one you have to beat is called "the Butcher". He is really strong and is pretty 
 fast for his size. There are many more boss fights and they all are pretty tough. What makes some 
 of these boss fights hard is the map setup. Some of the boss fights occur in a small part of the 
 map and you do not have a lot of place to move.
  
  There are tons of weapons and armour to collect. All of these weapons and armour can be customized 
 with special items which gives the weapon or piece of armour a special attribute (ex: if you put 
 a special stone that gives you a fire bonus in a weapon it will do fire base damage and in an armour 
 it will give you fire resistance) . All the weapons and armour have durability points which you 
 lose every now and then when you hit enemies or when you get hit. When the weapon or armour has 
 no more durability they break and you cannot use it anymore. You can repair your weapons or armour 
 at the local smith shop where you will have to pay to get them repaired. The price range depends 
 on the rarity of the weapon and how many durability points are lost. When you repair it at the 
 smith shop he will restore it 100%. If you chose the fighter you can repair your stuff but it is 
 less effective (ex: every time you repair your weapon with the fighters skill it will repair it 
 only 50%) .
  
  The only thing that I did not like about this game is the fact that you keep going down and down 
 all the time. When you enter the church you start off at floor 1. Each floor is pretty big and 
 once the whole floor is explored the you find a staircase leading to floor 2. At the end of the 
 game I think you reach floor 20 or something like that. It can get quite annoying at some point 
 but it's nothing major. Another thing I did not like is the fact that you never change town. You 
 always stay in Tristram from the beginning of the game to the end of the game. 
  
  In the end this game rocks. This is a must have for any hardcore gamers because it's just one of 
 the best action adventure games out there and a great classic game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I first gave Diablo a spin on the Playstation as a rented game due to the buzz about it from all 
 my PC friends. I didn't care for it. In fact, I think I played it for about 20 seconds and then 
 took it back.
  
  In between Diablo 2 and the LoD expansion pack I gave it another spin, this time on the PC. This 
 time, it seemed different. I was able to get into it a lot more. For its time it really did offer 
 a lot of things other games couldn't really offer. A lot of good quality fun in the dungeons. Great 
 weapon upgrades and a lot of moments where you find yourself running like a chicken away from the 
 horde of enemies that just came scurrying your way.
  
  The game gets better and better the deeper into hell you decsend. Then, when all is said and done, 
 take the fun onlne and team up with friends via battlenet.
  
  If you're looking for a classic that started it all, look no further than here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This game practically established a very nice game genre; HACK AND SLASH. Some games might have 
 come out before this one, but you can't argue that this game is a classic. You can choose between 
 three simple character classes; warrior, rogue, or mage. Your mission is simple; take quests from 
 townspeople until you get the Diablo quest. Without a doubt, this is a simplistic story; but, it's 
 the game itself that counts. You can't really seperate this game from the title of "Classic", even 
 though the graphics are dated (though they still hold their own after 10 years) . The full voice 
 chracters are just icing on an already very sweet cake. This is a game that defined the gaming 
 world, and even by today's standards, this is a diamond in the rough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm writting this review almost 6 years after the fact. I saw that I never wrote a review for this 
 game and found out that Diablo is probably the best game I ever Played in my life. I normally play 
 a game only one time through if it's good and put it aside as I buy a lot of game and want to play 
 them all. But Diablo was too good to be played once. I played it through 3 times over in each skill 
 level. Then I played another 2 time in two skill level online with one of my friend and two years 
 later, me and my body got the Playstation version and played it all over again togheter. 
  
  This damn "one more minute" feeling almost cost me my girlfriend (well she left anyway but 
 not because of Diablo... having known!!) . You'll always want to get the better armor, the better 
 helmet, the better sword. And then play it again with another character. Even today I cannot think 
 of any of the 200 game I played that was that engaging. Pure plaisure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TranquilSlogan
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Diablo and all of the following games rank among my all-time favorites on PC. With the ability 
 to mix and match weapons, armor, and spells makes Diablo a must have and a truly classic game among 
 other things. This game even though not the first of its kind by a long shot set the standard for 
 its genre. This was one of the first games I actually found myself running away from enemies out 
 of pure fear and then after I felt confident with my skills went back and made them pay dearly 
 for the scare that they gave me. Sadly I don't have this masterpiece in my collection anymore because 
 I played it into oblivion but it will always be in my heart as one of the few and great games that 
 I would always pick back up and play til my heart's content. Buy it, try it, if you don't like 
 it, fry it.
  
  Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cid8807
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Visually, Diablo is stunning. The attention to detail and general ambiance immediately draws you 
 into the game. Your character can interact with just about anything from doors to chests and towns 
 folk to cows!
  
  Players start their journey into the world of Diablo by choosing from three characters (Rogue, 
 Sorcerer or Warrior) each with their own unique strengths and weaknesses. It is up to you how you 
 develop your character with the experience points gained as reward for your battles in the dungeons 
 that lurk below the town of Tristram. It is wise to stay true to the philosophy of your character 
 though if you are to get the most out of the game. Don't waste your time playing the sorcerer if 
 you have a preference for sword fights.
  
  There are 16 levels full of all manner of vile beasts laying in wait for you. In multiplayer mode 
 these levels can be played in three classes of difficulty; normal, nightmare or hell - I'm sure 
 you can work out for yourself which one is going to be the most challenging.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirk13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  Of course due to a completely overlapping updated sequel it's hard to keep this review in the modern 
 context so Ill do my best to go retro with this.
  
  Diablo was the type of game that, despite even initial high popularity, someone had to show it 
 to me. I wasnt even too keen on it at first, it felt a bit repetitive. Of course, once I started 
 playing I couldnt stop, the random weapon and level system was bar none, and music kept the atmosphere 
 at a good level of atmosphere, and although it bothered me at first, I started to like the idea 
 of starting at a castle and burrowing deep below until you reached hell.
  
  I got so used to the idea that when Diablo II came around I was almost disappointed that you traversed 
 different areas rather than staying in one town, of course I also got used to that as well.
  
  The single player alone was good, but with Blizzards starting to ramp up its multiplayer operations 
 it opened up a whole new experience for the game.
  
  In the end blizzard did what it did best, it created one of the most on the spot synergetic systems 
 for the type of game being made, nothing could touch it and they pretty much monopolized the genre. 
 I only recall playing one other game with a similar feel to Diablo, and it wasnt nearly as good, 
 so I just stopped playing it while I waited for the sequel to satiate me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1996, PC gaming was striving. More and more people were getting a "home computer" and getting 
 into PC gaming. It was also a great year for PC stores and outlets, as mice were flying off the 
 shelves at a satisfying (and alarming, if you were a gamer) pace.
  
  All of this because of one masterful game: Diablo. Your mouse was in for one heck of a ride, and 
 so were you. I remember spending a fortune on mice back then, destroying them by repeatedly clicking 
 on the buttons as fast as I could... but I didn't mind one bit.
  
  The premise of the game is very straightforward: You arrive in a desolate town, which was once 
 beautiful and joyous but was destroyed by an evil predator named Diablo. You are tasked in helping 
 to find and destroy this evil beast.
  
  You had the choice between 3 character classes: warrior, rogue or sorcerer, each with their different 
 fighting styles. As you would've guessed, the warrior is a good character to choose if you just 
 wanna beat the living daylights out of the enemies. But if strategy is more to your liking, you 
 would choose the rogue or the sorcerer.
  
  What made Diablo incredible is it's random level generator. You could play the games 50 times and 
 get 50 different level designs. Now that, right there, is replay value and made for quite a challenge. 
 What made the gameplay exciting was trying to find the "super weapon" that was promised to you 
 at the beginning of each level. Another interesting aspect was the online gameplay, which was in 
 it's infancy back then, and was provided by the legendary Battle. net servers. You could play with 
 or against other people online... and that, back then, was simply amazing. I remember spending 
 most of my nights taking on monsters with my buddies until the early morning light.
  
  The simple point and click gameplay was very easy to pick up and understand (and was great at giving 
 you cramps!) . Graphics were amazing back in 1996, some of the best out there at the time. The musical 
 score was great and really got you into the game.
  
  All in all, Diablo is a classic game, one that should never be forgotten and should be played by 
 all fans of action and RPG games, even if it's been almost 10 years since it's release... but be 
 sure to have a good supply of mice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepper919
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  Diablo 1, like all the others have made their mark on one of the best role-playing series without 
 a doubt. Personally I think diablo 1 was blizzard's best of the series:
  
  1. Because diablo was much more of a challenge, you couldnt run, the monsters were uber hard and 
 did a ton of damage in hell if you werent properly equipped.
  
  2. It was much harder to find uniques in single-player diablo 1 and if you did it wasnt like Diablo 
 II LOD. if you found a unique in hell it might have been Arkaine Valor. If you find one in diablo 
 1 it might be a weak normal-like item.
  
  3. Just and all around better feel to the game, unfortuanly diablo on battle. net is full of hacks 
 and most people like to play legitly so they just stick to single player.
  
  News: Diablo III theres news that theres an unannounced project being made. also blizzards job 
 openings are due to the project team of diablo 1 and 2 and LOD. Blizzard north we'll be getting 
 in on the project because there very tightly held together with the diablo series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkplayer
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is very simple to play, it shouldnt be very hard to anyone and its so addictive, you 
 just want to keep on playing it even afetr you are finished. Diablo changed PC gaming and Gaming 
 in general forever. Diablo was a major influence in shaping games into what they are today. 
  
  Gameplay: Players start their journey into the world of Diablo by choosing from three characters 
 a Rogue, Sorcerer or a Warrior each have their own unique strengths and weaknesses. It is up to 
 you to train your character with experience points. One of the best features of Diablo is the random 
 levels. No two levels will ever be the same so the life-span will be that much longer. Diablo's 
 gameplay is simply outstanding. The game is very easy to get into and very enjoyable. When I started 
 this game I played it for hours on end, it just keeps you playing. The replay value is amazing, 
 there are so many places to see and so many items to see that you could be playing for months and 
 not see it all. There is so much to do in the game, collect items, train your character explore, 
 etc. that it keeps you entertained. The Battling monster never gets old and it doesnt feel repetitive. 
 The Controls are also very simple and dont interfere with the game play at all. 
  
  Graphics: Visually Diablo is quite well done. At its time Diablo was one of the best looking games 
 made. The attention to detail and general ambiance immediately draws you into the game. Your character 
 can interact with just about anything in the game. Your character is also very detailed and you 
 can easily recognize all the items in the game. The monsters also are very well done. 
  
  Sound: Sound: Diablo features an outstanding soundtrack that suits the game perfectly. The music 
 fits perfectly with Diablos atmosphere. Throughout the game you will find music that suits that 
 area. Also the sound effects are quite well done. From the swords hitting to the magic spells doing 
 damage.
  
  Value: Everything about this game is just phenomenal and it will blow you away. The gameplay is 
 easy which makes it even more so enjoyable. Diablo is a great experience the first, second, or 
 even third time through, this game can be played several times after completion and it will still 
 feel fresh. Diablo was also one of the first games to have multiplayer 1-4 players via LAN or free 
 battle. net service from Blizzard. Online you can play with or against countless other players which 
 only adds to the value of Diablo. So Diablo has one of the best single player adventures and a 
 fun additional multiplayer component.
  
  Without a doubt, Diablo revolutionized gaming in many ways; it created many things that are implemented 
 in games today. I would have to recommend Diablo to anyone as it one of the greatest games I have 
 ever played though.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  When this game was released years ago, it was a huge success, tough game reviews of magazines were 
 not very enthusiastic about it, but Diablo was an immediate classic. The creators of the great 
 Warcraft saga decided it was time to create something different this time. The player has three 
 choices of character, a Warrior, a Rogue and a Sorcerer. Every fighter has his own abilities and 
 weaknesses, but ultimately and obviously the warrior is the definitive of the three. The real fans 
 will enjoy playing and finishing the game with all three characters.
  
  The structure of the game is quite simple, you came to a once splendid town and immediately get 
 involved with the problems of the townsfolk's, their problems involve demons and other monsters, 
 the great evil behind all will reveal while the game progress.
  
  Diablo had an interesting generator of random levels; this made the game interesting for more of 
 one play with the same fighter. The graphical aspect of Diablo is similar to Warcraft but with 
 more realistic movements and very detailed graphics. The main goal is kill every monster gain experience 
 and go deeper into the labyrinth. Almost there's no strategy to be used here, the speed with the 
 mouse (or buttons) is the most important thing in Diablo. Yet this is not a game for fans of unstoppable 
 action, there are tasks to achieve, puzzles to solve, and use the brain before fighting the stronger 
 enemies.
  
  I recommend avoiding the Playstation version of this game, it's extremely slow for loading, uses 
 too many memory card blocks and the game control can not match the experience the simplicity and 
 practice (movement and the use of menus) that the PC version has. One positive detail of the Ps 
 version is the possibility of a two-player battle mode. The best way to play it is with a Pentium 
 PC, the game doesn't require any kind of 3D chips, and also it is not necessary an extremely fast 
 processor. The game can be saved immediately and you can have more than one game saved. Diablo 
 pays a high tribute to the world of fantasy and sword & sorcery, there are lots of the monsters 
 fans of fantasy will enjoy destroying, the living skeletons, dark knight and sexy succubus looks 
 great and at times Diablo is like a video game version of Ray Harryhausen's fantastic adventures. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanfwlr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Diablo is one of the best games I own for the PC. It is deep and compelling and has excellent replay 
 value. The graphics were good for the time and the sound and music is wonderful.
  
  Diablo is a point and click action/adventure game that is truly amazing. The amount of weapons 
 and magic that is avaible to discover is wonderful and the enemies and missions are well designed.
 
  
  Diablo is one of the only games I own that does random level generation. This means that each time 
 you play the game, the level lay out is different, the location of items is different, and the 
 types of quest you face may differ. This is wonderful and makes the game worthy of being played 
 through a million times.
  
  The only gripe I have is that at the beginning of the game, it is really easy to die and very hard 
 to gain worthy weapons to battle your foes. This doesn't last long but the merchants charge high 
 prices for their items and you start out with almost no money at all and it stays that way for 
 a long time.
  
  Over all, the game is great. Go out and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batata0987
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Diablo  um jogo de computador, no estilo RPG, passado em poca medieval. Produzido pela Blizzard 
 North e distribuido pela Blizzard Entertainment, foi lanado em 1996. O objectivo deste primeiro 
 jogo da srie , basicamente, acabar com o mal que esta assolando a pequena cidade de Tristam, 
 espalhado pelo Diablo, o Senhor das Trevas. O jogo  dividido em trs fases de dificuldade (Normal, 
 Nightmare e Hell) , onde em cada uma delas o/a personagem ganha pontos de experincia aps matar 
 os inimigos, acrescendo seus levels e dividindo suas magias e atributos (fora, magia, destreza 
 e vitalidade) a livre escolha. Durante a jogativa itens e ouro so deixados pelos monstros. O jogador, 
 por sua vez, pode utilizar de tais itens e, tornando-se assim, cada vez mais forte. Existem trs 
 classes disponveis para o jogador, o Guerreiro, a Ladra e o Feiticeiro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Diablo was the best RPG to ever come out. Period. Blizzard was a genius to make such a game and 
 then make a sequel as well! But to stay on Diablo it was revolutionary! It changed gaming as we 
 know it. By combining bad-ass monsters with awesome professions and a great storyline it owned 
 the gaming business at that time. Almost everyone should have this game and those who don't BUY 
 IT! It's worth the $5 dollars! Check anywhere for it! It's a must have for any gamer out there 
 even those who hate RPG's. I'm saying this as I am a FPS maniac that this game owns all other RPG's! 
 Even The old-school ones! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Diablo will celebrate its tenth birthday this year. The amazing thing about this is the fact that 
 it has lost none of its appeal during this time. While it is comprehensively put to shame in terms 
 of length and character options by its phenominal sequel, this game has an enduring simple charm 
 that makes it as much fun today as it was all those years ago.
  
  By todays standards, graphically this game is poor. By 1996 standards, it was nothing spectacular. 
 However, if you play the game you will quickly not care about its graphics. It is such a simple 
 creature, with just one long dungeon to explore, but it has such great replay value, a classic 
 story, and numerous options in character creation that it will keep you hooked for months, and 
 years later you will still happily play it and find something new or defeat a certain boss a different 
 way.
  
  In terms of sound, Diablo isn't spectacular, but it has subtle music throughout the adventure and 
 a disturbingly memorable piece of music during your characters time in the base village of Tristram. 
 
  
  There are three character classes that you can play as, and while the possibilities for developing 
 your character are nothing compared to Diablo 2, it is still highly enjoyable to advance through 
 the mission, become more powerful and gain new gear so that eventually you are strong enough to 
 survive in Hell and defeat the Lord of Terror himself. 
  
  The variety of character classes, each with individual strengths and weaknesses, coupled with the 
 ever changing dungeon levels and randomly spawning treasure items gives this game great replay 
 value, something rarely found in games of its time. Plus it is not particularly long, so you can 
 have hours of fun finding different ways to defeat the enemies, and creating many powerful though 
 vastly different characters.
  
  The different quests are all interesting, with many varied and colourful enemies to encounter along 
 the way. The enemies change with each game too, so you will find different challenges each time 
 you play. And you will play it many times, as it is just such fun. 
  
  It is also possible to play online using Blizzards Battle. net facility. This enables you to complete 
 the quests online with a small group of other adventurers.
  
  When compared to most RPGs today, Diablo doesn't look that great. However the simple fact remains 
 that without Diablo we probably wouldn't have many of the games we have today. It is a classic 
 game that has withstood the test of time and is just as much fun to play now as it was in the late 
 nineties. A worthy addition to any gamers collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BestGame92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Diablo is such a great PC game that everyone should know about. From the beautiful graphics to the 
 environmental details, this game should be noticed for its great potential it has in it. This type 
 of Hack-and-Slash game isn't only that alone, but its made like that but RPG style which makes this 
 game so good. The concept of this game is to slay all of the demons you see and gain levels. Your 
 characters have stats and as you venture through the dungeons of hell, You will find spell books 
 that your character can learn which also is interesting using magic. One of the most funnest and 
 enjoyable parts are the dungeons uniqueness. The dungeons are made differently each time you visit 
 them for the ultimate replay value! The difficulty of this game is smartly made hard so that you 
 can face your demonic enemies as the ultimate challenge. For a PC gamer, this game will definitly 
 not disappointing. This game was made for gamers like you and me to enjoy for a lifetime! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAMPANERIA
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that everyone should at least try to play... and end up playing until 
 you forget what time it is. There are only so many games that really revolutionized video games. 
 Diablo did this ahead of the curve for role playing and set a benchmark that game developers keep 
 going back to. One of the best things about this game is how simple the idea is BUT with an added 
 concept that you can kill your foes in different ways and improve your game play and skills at 
 the same time... speaking of skills this one has such a nice volume of differing elements. The only 
 thing I can say is go and pick up a copy of this classic at least for the nostalgia, just keep 
 an eye on the clock as you ight see the sun rise while your playing :) 
  
  Diablo was one of great games in its day and may represent the pinacle of isomorphic action RPGs. 
 It is simple to learn (a 4-year old can play it) , a has a random level generator that keeps the 
 game a challenge for a while.
  
  Diablo's network play was one of the first games that I found to work well, even on a modem. There 
 were occasional clipping problems but nothing to severe.
  
  The game keep you interested way beyond what was reasonable because of it being a collector game 
 (try to find the best equipment.)
  
  The biggest draw-back of the game was the limited number of monsters and levels and the huge number 
 of cheats and hacks that ultimately spoiled online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  The original Diablo created by Blizzard created one most popular hack and slash RPGs of all time. 
 Diablo offers a diverse array of weapons, spells, armor that a player can utilize on their journey 
 to hell to defeat the the natorious Prime Evil Diablo. 10 years ago when first playing this game 
 both single player and multi-player I was simply amazed, with it's gruesome but intriguing story 
 line. One of the greatest features of this game is the random generating maps, everytime you load 
 the game the dungeons are going to be different and some of the quests will also be altered, this 
 feature therefore adds a high replay value.
  
  Overall: 
  Though very outdated if you want to add a good RPG with a great story this is one to purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZabuzaR
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Sure this game is somewhat old... But its still one of the best PC games even to this date! The 
 Graphics for this game at the time were simple but great! The Sound of this game is just as outstanding 
 as well! This game has one of THE best Multiplayer in the world. Its easy to find a room and join 
 with other players. You also don't need to worry about PKers that much either. Single players is 
 good but just not as great as the multiplayer. This game is a MUST have for ALL PC owners! Pick 
 this game up now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snippey
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a really cool game and if you like RPG games, you are just as much fool as me if you miss 
 this game: D
  
  The graphics is really good ro be made in 1996 band the type of game play is really amazing too, 
 it is true, it made a revolution (for my friends and me at least)
  
  The sounds is not that good at all, i just don't understand how they are made, in different to 
 Diablo II (now am i counting with the years they are made) is it REALLY bad actually
  
  But i did not like to fdight the last boss, diablo he is too hard: ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  
  Every now and then a game comes along that is so simple and addictive that it affects the way that 
 video games are made forever. Games like SimCity, Populous, Dune II, and Doom all changed the face 
 of computer gaming for years to come. Now Blizzard, the company that refined the real-time strategy 
 game to near perfection, has unleashed Diablo, a title that combines the elegant simplicity of 
 an action game and the addictive storyline of an adventure game with the personalization and exploratoration 
 of an old-school RPG.
  
  As with the golden RPG titles of yesteryear, Diablo's premise is very simple: Find evil things 
 and smite them repeatedly. The tricky bit comes in deciding just how to smite them, and how to 
 do it without getting seriously killed. Each of the game's three character classes - the warrior, 
 the rogue, and the sorcerer - has a different approach to combat, and different specialties that 
 make life easier overall. Super-strong and resilient, the warrior is able to use a great many weapons 
 that his colleagues can't heft and can wade into battles without fear of being struck down in the 
 first few seconds of the fight. Rogues are masters of the bow; their superior dexterity enables 
 them to strike from afar with unerring accuracy. Sorcerers depend on a variety of powerful spells 
 to destroy large numbers of enemies from a distance, keeping their frail frames far away from possible 
 harm. Each different class of character suits a particular style of play: Action fans will most 
 likely want to scrap up close with a warrior, while strategy fans will find the strike-and-move 
 tactics of the sorcerer and rogue more to their liking. It doesn't really matter - it's all very, 
 very cool.
  
  Cooler still are the amazing variety of items, magic, and monsters encountered while tackling the 
 game's many quests. Like Sword of Fargoal and The Wizard's Crown (old, old, OLD, RPGs) , Diablo 
 features magic items and weapons with random powers and properties. Names like the Jade Bow of 
 the Moon denote more than just a valuable find; jade indicates an item that helps the player resist 
 all forces (fire, electricity, etc.) , and of the moon shows that the arm will increase all of 
 a character's attributes. Since all of this is random, players are constantly given the promise 
 of discovering the ultimate weapon or armor with each open chest or slain enemy. Similarly, although 
 a set number of monsters is included, only a few will be seen during each full game. This means 
 that players going back for their second or third shot at the game will very likely fight opponents 
 they haven't seen before. Talk about replay value.
  
  Those who do get tired of Diablo will find a whole new realm of excitement in network and Battle. net 
 play. In both modes (all it takes to play Battle. net is an open Internet connection and a copy 
 of the game) players can work with (or against) three other players while solving quests and fighting 
 evil. Although facing off against large numbers of enemies can get pretty tricky - as a sorcerer 
 I had a horrible problem with shooting my warrior companions in the back with some particularly 
 nasty spells - this group play adds hours of play life to the title. On Battle. net be prepared 
 to run across the dregs of virtual society, from player killers who slay others for their gold, 
 to more clever sham artists who lure players into dangerous areas and then collect their items 
 after they're killed by the local beasties. Watch your back.
  
  There's plenty more that's great about Diablo - it features a fantastic soundtrack reminiscent 
 of early Bauhaus albums as well as randomly determined quests and subquests - but there's no reason 
 to write about it here. Diablo is the best game to come out in the past year, and you should own 
 a copy. Period. If you like PC games, you should go out right now and experience what is likely 
 to be the clone maker for the next two years
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkvengence14
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  this game rock and you shouuld buy this game now best classic doom like opaclypse hack in slash 
 of all time almost i give this game a 100% perfecT with a capital T T ya baby this game is so addicting 
 and yet easy to hack if you get bored of the normal game play wich will never happen best multiplayer 
 and all run to yoour store right now and get htis game now or ill hunt you down you can laso collect 
 ears on multiplayer of the people you kill and if u can get a hack trainer to kill easy at first 
 this game was hard but now it is easy but i have not played hell dificulty yet that is hard really 
 hard ya ya ya ya i guess be a mage and contact me darkness16 (da) to join my dmeonic alaince clan 
 very succsessful yes come buy game and play online or even on single player contact my gamespot 
 account or diablo online account to join clan or ask qustions about hacking diablo or getting neet 
 all powerfull weps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Before Diablo, there was Rogue and Gauntlet, games that offered a particular innovation, but before 
 the imperator Diablo of its genre, there was naught. When Diablo was released by Blizzard, it seemed 
 to be a game similar to the games listed above. When given greater scrutiny, was it of beauty spurred 
 and etched. Not only was the graphics far greater, the storyline was immersive and the gameplay 
 revolutionary. 
  
  Diablo chonicalizes Diablo's lust for power. The storyline is that the Horadric mages who train 
 to capture the Three Prime Evils, put Diablo in a soulstone. Diablo was in ethereal form and needed 
 a physical form. He first corrupted the archbishop Lazarus. He tried to seduce King Leoric, but 
 he failed. He then made Lazarus steal the king's son who was to be the host of Diablo. With that 
 complete, Diablo's minions broke free and terrorized the populace. You are given command ofo ne 
 of the three characters: the warrior, sorceror, and rogue. The warrior specializes in brute strength, 
 and as of attributes has high strength but the pettiest mana. The rogue is good in all statistics, 
 but has the greatest dexterity and speed. The sorceror is good only in magic, and has a colossol 
 amount of mana. Another important feature is the great scope and latitude of the game. You will 
 go through a desolate chapel, catacombs, caverns, and the brass gates of hell intself. Another 
 great feature is the interactivity with the populace. You can talk to them about the particualr 
 mission unto hand, but also break free from such binding chains of dissidence and boredom, you 
 get to talk with them about gossip and things not related to the game's objectives.
  
  What makes the game worthy is its multitude of its bestiary and passions of Despair. You will meet 
 behomeths ranging from Fallen to Diablo himself. The music is grand, ranging from compositions 
 of mysticism to brooding Despair. The music would act as cornicen for the particular hub.
  
  Diablo- good game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The starting block of one of the greatest series ever and the father to some amazing games to come. 
 In Diablo you play as a warrio, sorcerer, or I forgot the other race lol. Basically your goal is 
 to go through a really big dungeon and fight off bosses to ultimately reach Diablo. Everything 
 about this game is pretty much flawless. Even though it is pretty old It would still hold up to 
 todays standards. Gameplay is where this game shines. Who knew hack and slash could have been so 
 fun. AI is challenging and will keep you from going through this game like a knife through butta. 
 Online play is amazing and best of all, free. Sound is really good excellent music to guide you 
 on your journey across vast dungeons. Noises enemies and yourself make when you get hit sound realistic 
 and up to par. Graphics are not the best but everything else is so high in quality that it really 
 gets cancelled out. The replay value of this game is a reason to buy it alone. You will spend hours 
 and hours leveling up and trying to better items to help you on your journey to defeat Diablo. 
 I am a big fan of the Diablo series and this is the Mario of pc games for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot9183
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Don't know why people can get hyped up for such a terrible game. It is a repetitive hack n' slash 
 oriented game. The game is also very boring online considering the fact that your best friend online 
 named Ineverdie193749 always ninja's your loot. The game also lacks a good plotline. All in all 
 i suggest going with something better. The soundtrack is the only thing i found good. Other then 
 that you can find this game in the dumpsters behind McDonalds. (Yes I have seen a copy in the dumpster 
 so i scurried home and brought mine to hoping that the garbage men didnt have to touch the vile 
 game.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiatebake
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  Even though i completly hate diablo 2, this is a game that i really enjoy.
  this is definitly one of the ''golden oldies'' of gaming.
  
  To start with, the gameplay is 
 great, with random levels evertime you play (well, almost anyway) and with very many monsters and 
 quests to take this is one HELL of a game.
  
  You start in the town of tristram, as either a rouge, warrior or a sorcerer, with the main goal 
 far far away, you will start with going down the cathedral for some monster bashing.
  
  This game might seem bad, based on it's grapics, but don't get fooled, it's actually very good, 
 and should be played by everyone (oposed to diablo 2, which no-one should play)
  
  Buy this game, it's definitly worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  DIablo is Spanish for Satan. It is also a great game. It can be played online and offline, but 
 at the same time it's got some problems. WIth starters, the graphics are overrated, along with 
 it's music that plays, and it's a bit to straightforward for today's RPG audience, but it delivers 
 in spades. 
  
  Diablo doesn't really have any main character, instead you play as either a mage which is a spellcaster, 
 warrior who can take lots of damage, or a rogue who can sneak and does some fast and often heavy 
 damage. Although this isn't a huge selection, it offers 3 distinct classes that are all unique, 
 although if your a beginner at this genre, I highly recommend the warrior, as it's easy to play 
 and pretty straightforward. However, if your more experienced, then definitely go with the mage, 
 as it's hard to play and casting spells is risky business, especially with mana that doesn't regenerate. 
 The rogue is in the middle as it doesn't have that much hit points, but can do quite a bit of damage.
 
  
  The campaign itself has quite a bit of challenge, as you don't regenerate your hit points or mana 
 pool. Basically, you have to get potions to do this, which can get expensive if you have to purchase 
 it from the local town or risky if you have to pick it from monsters and demons that you kill. 
 Still, it isn't all that hard, thanks to the rather simple gameplay that is fast, but still has 
 some RPG elements at hand.
  
  For starters, you can get gear for your chest, neck, ring, and head. Depending on which class you 
 get, you can wear different types of armor. For instance, if your a mage, you can only wear robes 
 and such. If your a rogue then you can wear leather. If your a warrior then you can wear heavy 
 armor. The weapons work just the same, although some weapons are one handed, while others are two 
 handed. Again, only certain classes can use each weapon, but only the warrior can use the shield. 
 The only really negative thing ot all of this, is that it's to simple since there's only three 
 different classes.
  
  Diablo is also an action game, you just simply click your mouse and your character goes there, 
 you can also hold down the action button on your mouse and it will just automatically mose in any 
 directino you turn it too. Diablo's combat is simple, you click at the enemy and then your character 
 will automatically kill it, although sometimes you will miss your target. As your enemy dies, you 
 then pick up anything it leaves as loot. 
  
  Diablo also has some boss fights, which are pretty good, such the skeleton king, but the're just 
 basically tougher enemies, there's no real special way of killing them. Diablo is also the ultimate 
 boss fight and reason why all of this happened, because apparently he's taken over the underwold 
 and the dungeons you'll visit and the town is freaked, so they sent you. Your locations will be 
 of course dungeons, but as you go deeper, you go to lava infested areas and by the end of the game, 
 Hell.
  
  Although the adventure doesn't last to long, there is some replay value since you can play it with 
 other people online in co-op play or just killing eachother. There's also some random item drops 
 and random weapons that drop, as well as some random boss fights, so there is quite a bit of reason 
 to come back and play again.
  
  Diablo has some unique features, such as durability. Nothing lasts forever, not even armor. So 
 you have to frequently drop things on the ground before you head back out. If you want to repair 
 your items, or just purchase items at the local town, you need gold and certain people can only 
 do it, such as the blacksmith can only repair items. 
  
  Diablo also has some optinial quest taking. You can go to the local town and get one of these, 
 although it really isn't needed since you'll find all the gear you need easily by playing.
  
  Diablo's graphics aren't that great. The textures are terrible, envionments are lacking, and 
 overall, the quality isn't that great. Still the framerate never dorps even when quite a few of 
 foes are onscreen at one time. 
  
  The enemies you face are all unique. From creatures that walk on all fours, to demons themselves, 
 the enemies are all distinct and different.
  
  The sound in Diablo isn't to great. Some looping tunes play from timte to time but nothing to great. 
 The few voice acting in the game, is pretty good, but it's to far and between, most of it will 
 be in speech bubbles. There's only about 3 or 4 different sounds when enemies die, no matter what 
 they look like.
  
  In Diablo you can level up, which is pretty neat. The highest you can go to is level 50, but after 
 you finish the game, you can do it on a higher difficulty. There is a total of 3 different difficulties, 
 although the game doesn't last long and the only difference is enemies take longer to kill, there 
 isn't any new environments or anything.
  
  Still, DIablo is a pretty decent game. It's been dubbed as a classic, so if your looking for one, 
 this is it. But the game has aged and if your just now getting to checking out this somewhat steller 
 RPG/action game, then forget about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I didn't see what the big deal over this game was all about. The graphics aren't mindblowing and 
 the gameplay was simple, kill everything you can by left clicking as fast as you can. The story 
 was credible and the magical aspects of the game were nicely simplified for those who aren't about 
 all that nonsense. It's not that great, and the hype doesn't reflect the redundacy of the game. 
 The title sums up the game, just hack & slash.
  
  Fulfilling word requirement...
  
  It's very true, gaming can become an addiction, enough to the point where it's compared to narcotics. 
 If left untreated, this can ruin the addict's life. Symptoms include but aren't limited to: signs 
 of social withdraw, the addict not taking care of himself such as a decline in health, seems aloof 
 due to daydreams about gaming fantasy, etc. You may laugh at it, but any serious gamer knows this 
 to be true. The pull of living out an alter ego or doing things you only dream of can be very tempting, 
 and with the realism games are nowadays, it's very hard to resist. How do I know? Because I am 
 one. That's right, I'm a victim of gaming addiction. My social life has declined, so has my health. 
 I don't go out because I want to hang with my buds online, I stay indoors and don't get good nutrition/exercise 
 because I'm too busy playing. Instead of studying for finals I'm finding myself pulling off a 2 
 day nonstop marathon of Jedi Outcast... Try to help those who suffer from this, it seriously is 
 detrimental to the addict's health and lowers the productivity of the human race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:45 am PT
Review:  Every now and then a great game needs to be grabbed right off the shelf, the dust blown off, and 
 loaded up! This is one of those games. Wait you tell me you dont have it?! Go search the barging 
 bin and your local Wal-Mart this is a must have! 
  
  Go download a trainer or cheater, heck why not!? Exploit the potion dupe bug. For such an old game 
 the graphics are still above average. The third person overhead view is very easy to follow and 
 gives a good overview of what is going on around you. This game is hours of fun and a must have 
 for the classic gamer, best of all you dont need a tricked out system to run it on!
  Enjoy this for days!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LUBULA
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Very good game indeed, great storlyline, It's actually pretty deep... I love the Diablo series 
 very much, I also own the latest Diablo gams too.. this game is really good for it's age.... the 
 only downside to me is limited character selection, It should of been 5 not 3, because It just 
 feel's better that way lol
  
  When your online there is always the same stuff: PK'ers (people who will kill you or try to kill 
 you by surprise when you quest together) Hackers: people who hack items to a direction you can't 
 even think of, if your lucky they might give you some and maybe some gold :D and last but not least..... 
 jerks! lol there everywhere!! god do I hate them....
  
  Last Straw....... you should already own this game by now, I do and so should you~!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wej_accept_it
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 9, 2005 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Diablo stands out as a classic amoun RPGs as the game that does everything right. The three player 
 classes, the random levle generator, the dozens of ferocious monsters and the seemingly endless 
 number of weapons and items adds up to all the good things that RPG gamers like.
  
  The first thing that must be mentioned regarding Diablo are the levels. Or to be accuarate, the 
 random level generator. This brilliant feature gives you new levels, with new enemies, items and 
 missions everytime you play. While somethings are resued each time, (the first mission is always 
 the same kill, the Butcher) the rest is always new and interesting. The game has a total of twenty 
 levels, divided into four groups of five. The parts are set in a cathedral like area, then the 
 catacombs, afterthat the tunnels and finaly hell. The story of Diablo is simply, you arrive in 
 the town of Tristram shortly after a priet known as Lazarus lured the towns folk into the depths 
 of the cathedral to look for a kidnapped prince. Waiting for the towns people was an army of demons 
 and monsters and only a small number made it out alive. Now its your job to head into the cathedral, 
 kill everything you find and then journy deep below the earth through the catacombs and caves before 
 reaching hell to face off against Lazarus and his demonic master, Diablo lord of the underworld, 
 spawn of darkness, etc etc.
  
  After picking one of three classes, the player begins their adventure of killing and exploring. 
 And while the game play is incediably simply, is addictive and fun. You'll want to constantly journy 
 a bit deeper to try a find a cool new weapon or get to the next area. The game is never too easy 
 or too hard, although it does get challenging towards the end when entire armies of demons charge 
 at you in the pits of hell. Granted you'll aquire enough weapons throughout the gameto deal with 
 even the worst the game can throw at you. Thanks to the random engine of the game you'll always 
 find a new and better piece of equipment each time you play.
  
  The game has aged well, all things considered. The graphics are yes, ugly compared to more recent 
 games, but the sound is quite good. Although these are but minor trifles, this game is well worth 
 playing repeatedly since not only will it be different each time, it'll be great fun each time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital_DJ_00
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  Diablo is an unforgetable experience for any RPG PC gamer fan. It offers high addictive gameplay, 
 awesome graphics, (for its time) easy to learn battle system, and cunning CG graphics. (for its 
 time) The storyline is really good too. Diablo is with out a doubt Blizzard North's greatest idea, 
 definately just as good as the WarCraft series. The single player mode is really fun, and Multiplayer 
 mode is just as fun, if not funner. If you like RPG's and own a PC or a Mac, buy this now. It is 
 well worth whatever price you pay for it. You will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nezriq
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Two words!!! Masterful Classic. Diablo is a game where u take on a role of a warrior/rogue/sorcerer/monk 
 to embark on a journey to destroy the lord of all evil... DIABLO!!!
  
  Develop by Blizzard Ent, whom r used to creating legendary games, Diablo is the reason i get into 
 the gaming world in the first place. Published in 96, diablo featured astonishing graphic, gothic 
 story-line, superb gameplay, beautifully animated units, cool npcs and demonic monsters. The voice-play 
 was great and the sound effects... STUNNING. 
  
  The items and equipments were properly designed with perfect details and the use of attributes 
 and skills were impressive. E. g, King's Sword of the Heavens... nice name for a sword huh?
  
  Unfortunately, Diablo was to easy to kill in any levels. To get through his monions is another 
 question.
  
  Diablo is a game that is considered complete and ultimately perfect. There will never be another 
 like it!!!
  
  LONG LIVE DIABLO!!! the game of coz not that demon guy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer_marc
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 30, 2005 1:19 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Diablo 2 but never got around to playing the first one then you really have to 
 see where it all began. The thing about the first game is that it truly has this evil atmosphere 
 about the levels that was not carried over to D2. Gothic moody music plays in the background whilst 
 you wander around undead infested catacombs. This game reminded me alot of what dungeons and dragons 
 games should feel like. Characters such as The Butcher were quite intimidating when you first meet 
 them. You'll have a choice of 3 classic characters, the mage, warrior and archer type. From there 
 you head deeper and deeper through the levels into the ground and finally to hell itself. The story 
 unravels as you go and is quite enjoyable with interesting side quests. 
  
  This game is a true rpg classic. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arob_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:53 am PT
Review:  This game is an instant classic. Up and running since 1996 Diablo was by far one of the pioneers 
 of the mmorpg world. The game is free to play online which is a beautiful thing for someone who 
 is low on mad money. Several different characters to choose from, my favorite being the Barbarian 
 or warrior. The spell caster is the most powerful character in the game but can be weak in some 
 aspects. The graphics arent to bad for the time period and the storyline is very innovative. If 
 you like mmorpgs check this game out, if you dont like it, It will make an excellent additon to 
 any gamers collection. I know I own two copies. I give Diablo a nine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:16 am PT
Review:  I'm writting this review almost 6 years after the fact. I saw that I never wrote a review for this 
 game and found out that Diablo is probably the best game I ever Played in my life. I normally play 
 a game only one time through if it's good and put it aside as I buy a lot of game and want to play 
 them all. But Diablo was too good to be played once. I played it through 3 times over in each skill 
 level. Then I played another 2 time in two skill level online with one of my friend and two years 
 later, me and my body got the Playstation version and played it all over again togheter. 
  
  This damn "one more minute" feeling almost cost me my girlfriend (well she left anyway but 
 not because of Diablo... having known!!) . You'll always want to get the better armor, the better 
 helmet, the better sword. And then play it again with another character. Even today I cannot think 
 of any of the 200 game I played that was that engaging. Pure pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akr321
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  Diablo is a creepy, intense action RPG that lacks depth to its combat system, and also lacks variety 
 in its environments, and is saddled with a short single-player and virtually no story. In spite 
 of these, it sets a high standard for its genre, and its gameplay is addictive to the point that 
 nearly all its shortcomings are swiftly forgotten. The three classes differ significantly enough 
 to justify playing through the whole thing with each one, and the game itself is significantly 
 more punishing than its sequel, as well as more creepy. The generally competent voice actors lend 
 credence to this scenario, and the graphics, which were great for the time. Nothing quite compares 
 to having the butcher hurled at you the way the game does it, at like the 2nd level!!! If only 
 the relentless clicking were in some way alleviated so I could save my mouse! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  This is classified as a role playing game, but it really is much more than that. Most of the role 
 playing games, such as star wars, knights of the old republic, are pretty dull and less of a game, 
 more of a story. This game was great because the story was more of a side note, the game itself 
 was very entertaining. I found myself playing it over more than once, which is quite rare for me. 
 It was one of the most original games when it first came out. I still find myself playing it every 
 once in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fougera
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Diablo is one of those games where you just go 'Wow', it is just that good. Despite its four player 
 multiplayer capabilities, and its OK graphics, this game was amazing when it came out. The ability 
 to play as a medieval/fantasy warrior, going on adventures, killing demons and the undead, that 
 is everyone's dream, whether they realize it or not. I had not played much else beyond Sim City, 
 so this was a nice change because I could destroy things and get rewarded for it. The massiveness 
 of the game was something not to be combated with, well, at the time at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19liam86
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Now this game took me two attempts to complete not something i'm proud of lol. The reason was I 
 really fluffed it up first time round and sold basically everything and spent all my money on elixirs. 
 I learnt from my mistakes though and restarted. Now my opinion on this game... Well I thought it 
 was brilliant! When I first bought Diablo, I thought it was going to be a strategy game the same 
 as the other two big games from Blizzard (Starcraft and Warcraft) and so when I first started playing 
 I was quite disappointed. Hmmm making myself sound like I know absolutely nothing here lol. I never 
 thought I could get into a role-playing game as I had attempted playing Final Fantasy VII which 
 I did enjoy at first but quickly became bored (sorry if I offended anyone there but just how I 
 found the game) and so was quite surprised that when I started playing and went deeper into the 
 Labyrinth, I became more and more addicted. the only bad thing I can really say about it is that 
 it was a little on the easy side. Well i suppose there is the not being able to attack monsters 
 that are kinda hid under a wall if u follow me but nothing serious. Highly recommended game even 
 if you are not a role-play game fan, just give it a go and you'll find yourself addicted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegetaforever
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This was the very game that started the awesome series of Diablo and it's greatness of RPG.
  
  The skills and different kinds of characters to go against demons and the undead.
  
  The 
 online is awesome is to have and play with friends, along with the LAN capability.
  
  It might be an oldie, but surely a goodie.
  
  Everyone should pick this up and try it out!!
 
  
  It's what started it all!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakahmet
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2005 7:10 am PT
Review:  Oyun dunyada en cok ilgi ceken oyun turunun efendisi, babasi kurucusu olarak sayilabilir. Cunku 
 piyasaya cikmis ilk RPG oyunudur. Insanlar yepyeni bir tarzla karsilasmislardr. Beni etkileyen 
 nadir oyunlardan biridir kendisi. Oyun insani kendine o kadar hayran birakiyor ki uzun sure basindan 
 kalkamiyorsunuz. Her ne kadar ikincisi ile tahti sallasa da diablo klasigine baslamamis kisilerin 
 kesinlikle oynamasi gereken bir oyun. Zaten ilk olarak ikiyi oynayan kisiler hikayeden biraz uzak 
 kalabilirler. Grafikler gunumuze gore cok kalitesiz olmakla birlikte oyunun ciktigi vakte gore 
 cok harika grafiklere sahip. Ozellikle buyu ve efektler cok harika. Oyun cikarken yaninda bir cok 
 da yenilik getirmistir. RPG oyun tarzi bunlarin basinda gelmekte tabiki. Oyun 20 katlik bir magaradan 
 olusmakta. Biraz kisa gibi gelebilir ama inanin size o sure zarfnda inanilmaz bir zevk veriyor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daltonknittle
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  its the best rpg other than kotor
  i played it for 100s of hours it is my second favorite pc game
  the first is better than the 
 second 
  the online play is good to 
  the game will be hard for beginers
  the quest were cool and the diferent items were cool
  its the best rpg other than kotor
  i 
 played it for 100s of hours it is my second favorite pc game
  the first is better than the second 
  the online play is good to 
  the game will be hard for 
 beginers
  the quest were cool and the diferent items were cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldenboy467
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Diablo. What can I say about this game. How about most addicting gameplay ever. How about most 
 enjoyable leveling up ever designed. How about fantastically designed multiplayer (which is totally 
 free by the way) . How about a gaming experience so enjoyable that I almost flunked out of college 
 because I played this game so much. How about greatest game of all time. Period.
  
  This game is so good, that it almost ruined my life because I would rather play the game than go 
 to the college classes that I was paying thousands of dollars to attend. And I am not the only 
 one that I know that had this problem.
  
  More additive than crack. I had to give it up cold turkey just to put my life back together. I 
 have been clean and Diablo free for over 5 years now. I am never going to play this game again. 
 But it's not the games fault for being the greatest game of all time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WallaKoala
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 7, 2005 1:05 am PT
Review:  A couple days ago, i loaded the game Dungeon Siege up and started playing. As i was playing, i 
 kept making remarks about it and how "this could be better" and "i dont like this aspect" Then 
 i remembered Diablo, and how great that game is. Even to this day... with 3d graphics and everything, 
 Diablo is still one of my favorites. Some people that played Diablo 2 first might say that there 
 is only 3 classes and that is not enough. I dont agree, because the classes in diablo 2 are just 
 more defined and specific than the ones in diablo 1.
  Also, Diablo is fully randomized. This means that every single enemy, weapon, level, and quest 
 (yes even quests) is randomized. This guarentees that you will never be bored.
  
  And by the way... you can pick the game up used for $3 so there is no reason to not have it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Even after the dawn of World of Warcraft and Diablo II, Diablo seems to be more of a nice collector's 
 item than it is game worth playing. However, there's more to Diablo than meets the eye.
  
  There's no doubt that Diablo is a definitely a straight hack-and-slash. The game debuted at a time 
 where PC games were growing more complex and began having more involved yet complicated gameplay. 
 During a time when RTS games were rising with "me too"s, Diablo was a move made by Blizzard that 
 was risque. Nobody has ever heard of Diablo before. It was a completely new franchise. It was noted 
 as an action RPG and the screenshots left in magazine ads were very enticing to those looking for 
 something more than just another RTS or FPS. The story was simple, and the gameplay was simple. 
 Now 2005 (nine years after it first debuted) , I actually had the nerve to install the game and 
 play it again before writing this review. The hacking was mindless, the graphics were decent. I 
 didn't realize how much different games have become. Diablo was a game played on 640x480 resolution 
 so the jaggies were there. It was also one of the last games to use CG-modeled sprites instead 
 of the complex particle effects and polygon models we use today. There was no such thing as accellerated 
 graphics. It was one of those games that worked specifically for Windows 95! Like every other game, 
 Diablo looked extremely dated but for some odd reason I had played for more than an hour. I actually 
 found myself in the second level. Before I began writing this review, I ended up killing the first 
 boss in the game and that was enough to tell me that the game was pretty timeless. Diablo was not 
 flashy, nor was it challenging when compared to the standards of its successor and me-too's. Diablo 
 just felt right. Its sounds which ranged from killing a monster to arranging an item gave me a 
 reason to play more. The design for this game was thoughtful from the beginning. Despite all the 
 graphical flash other games have done to make themselves look better during Diablo's debut, Blizzard 
 did something right - it had to be fun. Blizzard did their homework with other games and decided 
 to risk its company's reputation with Diablo. Action RPG hack-and-slash was cold and dead at the 
 time but Blizzard wanted to be a company that rejuvenated old genres. Some may say that Diablo, 
 although simple in design, is a masterpiece. In the same way Doom put first person shooters in 
 the mainstream map, Diablo did the same for action RPGs. 
  
  However, if all I could play were games in the past, Diablo would be one of them.
  
  radcastro. com 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_-rock_n_roll-
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 1, 2005 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed diablo 2 from my friend awile ago and that was really fun, so i begged my mom to get 
 it for me for christmas, instead, she got me diablo 1 
  
  While still a good game, diablo has some things i dont like about it. I hate that you cant open 
 the automap in town like you can on diablo 2, and i also think that the quests are, well, BORING. 
 
  
  I also hate that there are only 3 types of heros, warrior, rogue and sorcceror. while on diablo 
 2, theres sorcceress, amazon (rogue) , Barbarian, Necromancer and my personnal favorite, Paladin. 
 
  
  But, wen i think about it, diablo really isnt that bad, you still get to kill stuff (YAY) and you 
 can still do quests to get some pretty good rewards. 
  
  But i reccomend diablo 2 over diablo 1, for some pretty obvious reasons, im gonna probably sell 
 diablo 1 to get money to buy diablo 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarinho
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Blizzards smash hit, that sold over 5 million copies, is a testament of pure fun, with a simple 
 interface, great gameplay and awesome setting, this was the game to play in 1996.
  Nowadays after going for it after 9 years i must say its still a heck of a ride!
  Everything 
 is still as simple and addictive as ever but now the graphics seam a little dated the characters 
 seem hard and slow to grow stronger and well simply after playing many games after it there seams 
 not to be that many quest, items or skills. Still after this long this game is still one of the 
 best of his kind and i definitely recommend it to anyone that is interested in a simple, fun, hack 
 and slash RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilfred_Owen
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Diablo still stands as the best hack and slash RPG ever. I still think it has some pretty great 
 looking graphics, a great story, and some great game controls. All the characters in the game drew 
 me into their world. Griswold with that Scottish accent and Cain with his ever present knowledge 
 of the past and present. The music gave you a great gothic overtone and it gave you a great gaming 
 atmosphere to play in. 
  
  The way they made this game was revolutionary and still stands as a basic model for some of the 
 newer hack and slash RPGs coming out today. If you don't own a copy of Diablo, you need to go 
 out and pick up this classic immediately.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 22, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  Diablo is undoubtedly the best RPG made. With it's simple click and slash formula, players will 
 whittle away hours plumbing the depths of the Labyrinth of creatures, where Diablo, the Lord of 
 Terror, abodes.
  
  The storyline is complex and imaginative, with an immersive world and many people to talk to and 
 meet in your quest to defeat the Lord of Terror. 
  
  Enemies vary greatly, from undead to demons, and range from easy to incredibly strong.
  
  Diablo 
 excels in all fields that make a game great, with a quick and action packed pace, which is great 
 for and RPG game.
  
  A must for your collection, whether or not you are an RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlipknotIowa666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my first ever PC game that i've owned and seriously this game is addicting.
  Diablo has 3 kinds of people to choose from when creating a character. 
  There is a mage, a warrior, 
 and a rogue. 
  
  The mage you will have many spells to choose from and abilities to choose from. Mages can hit extremly 
 high but can be hit very hard.
  The warrior is a great beginner and veteran character for anyone. Picking the warrior will give 
 you many types of weapons and armor to choose from. The warrior is a balanced character, it's best 
 stats are strength.
  The rogue mainly uses a bow. The rogue's greatest strength is it's speed, giving you an advantage 
 of hitting a person multiple times.
  
  Blizzard entertainment gave this game many varieties of things to pick from like playing against 
 people online or you can play by yourself and and kill the monster that is Diablo.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2005 9:37 pm PT
Review:  The game that refinded and set the standard for all Hack n' Slashes. You'll still see it's likes 
 in various games today such as Divine Divinity, Darkstone, Dungeon Siege. Why? Because of a few 
 key factors: Simplistic Gameplay, easy to get started, and just downright fun all the way through.
 
  
  What's more of a bore than sitting through two hours of a tutorial that tells you nothing but what 
 some button does or what the controls are. Not Diablo, you can start it up and be playing within 
 five minutes with no tutorial necessary. Sure, this may mean it lacks the freedom and the options 
 of other games but once you sit down and play Diablo for any length of time you'll see it doesn't 
 need them. The core gameplay is just something that just can't be surpassed no matter how many 
 options you add.
  
  The great thing about Diablo is the fact you don't need to set aside three or four hours just to 
 be able to do anything. You can sit down and play for five minutes, or spend a few hours. As such 
 this really makes Diablo an almost relaxing game. You can play it at your leisure, or get in some 
 serious gaming time and level your character as fast as you can. It's up to you and you don't have 
 to worry about it being less fun either way.
  
  However, the main interest in Diablo is it's Multiplayer. Single player can be fun but what's more 
 fun than playing with a team? You can handle harder situations and level much faster, as well as 
 finding better items quicker. There is also the option of playing Player vs. Player matches to 
 show off how good your character is, which adds a whole new playing style to keep you interested. 
 Unfortunantly, despite all that, there is a major factor that limits the fun of Multiplayer and 
 that's hackers / cheaters; they run ramapnt on Battle. net.
  
  Now, the gameplay of Diablo is this. You begin by selecting one of three characters. The warrior, 
 which is the expert of melee. The sorcerer, which is the expert of Magic. And the Rogue, which 
 is the expert of Ranged. Each of these three are very well balanced and therefore just depends 
 on your playing style. Run up front and whack at the enemy or stay back and shoot arrows or cast 
 spells. Each character can learn spells and use bows so it's possible to make a Magic using Warrior, 
 or a Melee Sorcerer, so there are many different ways to play the game than just three characters.
 
  
  After that it's pure Hack n' Slash with a few quests that allow you to Hack n' Slash some more. 
 Is that a bad thing? Hell no! You don't have to worry about long quests or time limits or anything. 
 Just run down there and do what makes RPGs fun for most. Level and find items. You can get up to 
 level 50 and learn numerous spells. There are also quite a few items to find from normal items, 
 to magic items that add a few abilities, to unique items that give wonderous abilities.
  
  Diablo is one of those few games that I can recommend to anyone no matter what type of games they 
 like, it's just that fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolarisDeschain
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 24, 2005 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Now Im going to review a wonderful game, and one of my favorite games of all time, Blizzard Entertainments 
 classic, Diablo. The dark story of three peoples journey into the heart of darkness evokes more 
 emotion than almost any other PC game. You, the player, pick which of these three people you want 
 to play as, the Warrior, the Rogue, or the Mage. They arrive in the town of Tristram, where the 
 warrior grew up, the Rogue wanders through, and Mage enters to investigate. There they find the 
 place in chaos. People dead, the Archbishop corrupted by a powerful force, and the King gone insane, 
 and eventually killed and cursed. The few remaining survivors ask for your help, to venture down 
 into the corrupted cathedral at the end of town, and put an end to the evil within.
  
  Gameplay- Gameplay is simple, yet amazing. Simply clicking on the enemy with the cursor causes 
 your character to swing his weapon; clicking on them with a spell means you cast the spell on him. 
 Right-click a healing potion to heal yourself. It all fits so amazingly. Blizzards decision to 
 keep the Gameplay deep, involving, yet remain so simple just HAD to have a deal of luck involved. 
 When theres no baddies around, just click somewhere, and thats where the player walks. Its simplistically 
 perfect.
  
  The graphics also work like nothing else. Dead bodies of the village militia are seen strewn about 
 unceremoniously, dead bodies impaled on poles, wonderful character design of all the major characters, 
 right down to the Lord of Terror himself. The first time you make it down into Hell itself, everything 
 is transfixing. The graphics make you realize what you are up against, the walls make you feel 
 the ominous tone of the game, and the discrepancy of the catacombs is beautiful. Overall graphics 
 are something completely wonderful, and cant be missed for the world.
  
  Sound- The sound in the game is beautiful. The soundtrack is among the best the PC has to offer, 
 better even than Blizzards own Starcraft, the dark tone of the acoustic thrum for the village 
 makes you feel the desolation that happened there like no-ones business. The insane snare drum 
 war beat of hell itself reminds you constantly of how outnumbered you are, and that for making 
 it this far, the armies of Hell itself are surely after you. The dark gothic bell of meeting Archbishop 
 Lazarus is another great tone-setter. Swinging your weapon cuts through the air, sounding wonderful, 
 and when it cuts through the enemies, it sounds even better. The crunch of killing your first Fallen 
 is a wonderful experience. When you get hit, and it will happen, a lot, in the caves and down, 
 also sounds wonderful, even though it makes you enraged that theyre killing you. Your items all 
 fall to the ground as you die, making according sound effects with the items as if you found them 
 in a chest. Your death scream, however, is a bit annoying, just because you get a little too used 
 to it. A bit like dying in Metal Gear Solid. Snake! Snake! Snaaaaaaaaaaaaaake! Yeah. A bit like 
 that.
  
  Value- The replay value is, for a reasonable amount of time, off the roof. You can beat it the 
 first time, most likely you were the Warrior, and then beat it twice more with the Rogue and the 
 Mage. You can beat it those times, show it off to friends, play over Battle. net, which is something 
 I do, and I strongly recommend returning to it a good 3-4 years later, after beating it the first 
 time, to completely relive the experience. Good replay value is a must, and Diablo has it.
  
  All in all, Diablo is very simplistic, and pretty damn good. One of the best to grace PC, hell, 
 one of the best to grace gaming period. I strongly recommend it to anyone who likes, well, video 
 games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2005 6:54 am PT
Review:  Ahhhhhh diablo. For so long i have live, breathed, and just been diablo the game. Honestly i couldnt 
 get enough of this game. In diablo you run around as a warrior, rogue, and sorcerer trying to defend 
 the town of Tristram from a creature known as "DIABLO". Hmmm wonder where the name came from haha, 
 anyways. Diablo is the devil figure of the game trying to destroy the world by summoning creatures, 
 your job is to go down into the many levels of dungeons and caves, and fight against what seems 
 to be endless creatures and demons. You get special items and eqhipment to help you on your quest 
 to defeat Diablo. If you choose to make the game just a bit more fun you can play online which 
 makes the game quite a bit more fun since u can communicate with people, trade, help out other 
 people, not just AI's. So if i were you and never played a diablo game, play this game if you like 
 hack and slash games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anonymous21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 4, 2005 1:48 am PT
Review:  Well, here it is, folks. The role-playing game that took the genre and turned it on its head. Looking 
 back, it could be considered the most innovative RPG of the 90's. You can buy this game for a song 
 on Amazon or EBay, and if you've missed out on it so far, there's no reason to miss it any longer. 
 8+ years later, this game is still going strong. It has aged incredibly well.
  
  Baldur's Gate fans often hold a grudge against the Diablo series for its "mindless gameplay". I 
 think Diablo has something for everyone, from intellectuals to bloodthirsty rabbit-boppers.
  
  Replayability is truly infinite. Every single time you play this game the dungeon map will 
 be different, ala Sid Meier's Civilization series.
  
  This game is very good. You owe it to yourself to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warp_2567
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2004 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard does it AGAIN!
  
  Diablo is THE most amazing RPG game ever created! This game is perfect for any type of gamers, 
 whether it be RPG, mass slaughter, hack-n-slash, or Adveture-type people.
  
  Gameplay: So cool. Hacking and slashing monsters makes me feel SOOOOOOOO good. Casting spells is 
 SOOOOOOOOO awesome and SOOOOOOOOO fun. The online play is SOOOOOOO much fun.
  
  Graphics: Amazing. I personally think the graphics in Diablo are not better, but rather more cool 
 looking than Diablo 2. The cinematics are great for its time!
  
  Sound: well, there's nothing bad to say about the sound. All the monsters groaning and screaming 
 at your feet while they die is cool.
  
  Value: Play it to find out!
  
  Tilt: JUST PLAY IT AND YOU WILL KNOW.
  
  I'm not over-exaggerating about this game. This is 
 an honest review, and I think Diablo does deserve a perfect 10. BUY IT NOW!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsantor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2004 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Diablo was one of great games in its day and may represent the pinacle of isomorphic action RPGs. 
 It is simple to learn (a 4-year old can play it) , a has a random level generator that keeps the 
 game a challenge for a while.
  
  Diablo's network play was one of the first games that I found to work well, even on a modem. There 
 were occasional clipping problems but nothing to severe.
  
  The game keep you interested way beyond what was reasonable because of it being a collector game 
 (try to find the best equipment.)
  
  The biggest draw-back of the game was the limited number of monsters and levels and the huge number 
 of cheats and hacks that ultimately spoiled online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegorum
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2004 8:10 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that everyone should at least try to play... and end up playing until 
 you forget what time it is. There are only so many games that really revolutionized video games. 
 Diablo did this ahead of the curve for role playing and set a benchmark that game developers keep 
 going back to. One of the best things about this game is how simple the idea is BUT with an added 
 concept that you can kill your foes in different ways and improve your game play and skills at 
 the same time... speaking of skills this one has such a nice volume of differing elements. The only 
 thing I can say is go and pick up a copy of this classic at least for the nostalgia, just keep 
 an eye on the clock as you ight see the sun rise while your playing :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorcoth
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2004 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This brilliant game started it all back in the 90's. Because of Diablo, companies realized they 
 could release a graphically rich, 3rd person rpg that would still appeal to fans of the fast-paced, 
 real-time kill, kill, kill games like Doom, etc.
  
  Gameplay Positives:
  A great plot, and fast-paced real-time action. What few bugs that existed were corrected with timely 
 patches.
  
  Gameplay Negatives:
  A little repetitive, but not so much as to make you want to stop. Environments limited to a small 
 town area, and vast rocky dungeons.
  
  Graphics Positives:
  At the time, the graphics were stunning. Richly detailed environments, and a character model that 
 would change depending on the equipment you used.
  
  Graphics Negatives:
  Definitely out-dated by today's standards.
  
  Sound Positives:
  This was one of the first 
 games to employ a richly conceived "fantasy" soundtrack, teaching game designers how important 
 music and sound is to the gaming experience. It also had some excellent voice actors.
  
  Sound Negatives:
  None
  
  Value:
  One of the most revolutionary games of all time. One 
 of those games that you will still remember in 20 or 30 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2004 12:28 am PT
Review:  If you've played Diablo 2 but never got around to playing the first one then you really have to 
 see where it all began. The thing about the first game is that it truly has this evil atmosphere 
 about the levels that was not carried over to D2. Gothic moody music plays in the background whilst 
 you wander around undead infested catacombs. This game reminded me alot of what dungeons and dragons 
 games should feel like. Characters such as The Butcher were quite intimidating when you first meet 
 them. You'll have a choice of 3 classic characters, the mage, warrior and archer type. From there 
 you head deeper and deeper through the levels into the ground and finally to hell itself. The story 
 unravels as you go and is quite enjoyable with interesting side quests. 
  
  This game is a true rpg classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ULTIMA-Demon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2004 2:20 am PT
Review:  This game set the bar for what an addictive hack-n-slash RPG should be. Although this bar was shattered 
 by Diablo II and its expansion pack, Lord of Destruction, the original Diablo is still a lot of 
 fun to play. I isn't as addictive as Diablo II, but it does have some pretty good replay value 
 and it will keep you busy for some time. This game does have its draw-backs though. For one, the 
 game is dated, but again much like its sequel, this won't keep you from playing this game. Another 
 minor drawback is the online play. The online play isn't bad... in fact, it is great. It's just 
 that not that many people play it anymore, and those who do tend to cheat or PK a lot. Despite 
 the draw backs, Diablo is still a very fun and somewhat addictive game. I would recommend it to 
 any one who hasn't already played it. Especially since you can get it for like $9.99 at EB Games 
 or Gamestop. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
