-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Diablo II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/diablo2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  7, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.9, 51 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 10,876 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment
Developer: Blizzard North
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 29, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While its graphics appear somewhat dated, Diablo II has incredible replay value, and most importantly, 
 it offers a lot of addictive gameplay in either the single-player or the multiplayer mode. 

 
 After more than three years in the making, Diablo II has finally arrived. The belated sequel is 
 easily one of the most anticipated computer games of all time, so it's not surprising that Blizzard 
 North has managed to produce another highly entertaining and accessible game. But while its hack-and-slash 
 gameplay will seem instantly familiar to those who played its predecessor, Diablo II is a more 
 complex and much larger game, which helps explain its extended production. However, in exchange 
 for the additional complexity and size, you'll have to tolerate low-resolution graphics and a few 
 more gameplay problems than you might have come to expect from Blizzard games.   

  Although it was hugely successful both commercially and critically, the original Diablo was criticized 
 for its relatively short single-player game and solitary dungeon setting. Diablo II is set in a 
 much larger gaming world, and its action isn't isolated to a single locale. Divided into four distinct 
 acts, each with its own setting, Diablo II now permits outdoor exploration in addition to a predictable 
 series of dungeon crawls, although the outdoor areas aren't terribly interesting in and of themselves. 
 The overall goal of Diablo II is exactly the same as it was in the first game, namely to hack through 
 hordes of monsters to gain items and enhance your abilities so you can confront and speedily dispatch 
 the resident Lord of Terror, Diablo. This time around there's a better story to serve as the framework 
 for the slaughter, as each of the game's acts is linked together with impressively produced and 
 lengthy cinematic cutscenes. The quests you receive are no longer random, as they were in the single-player 
 version of the original game, and collectively the tasks in each act are loosely linked together 
 to make the overall story more cohesive. Diablo II's primary focus is still on action-oriented 
 gameplay, but the more sophisticated presentation of the cutscenes and the additional plot depth 
 give the action context and more relevance than in the original game.   

  The actual gameplay still consists almost exclusively of killing monsters to gain treasure and 
 experience points. Since your character constantly gains more and more formidable abilities and 
 weaponry, that relatively simple style of play proves to be just as addictive as it was in the 
 original Diablo and in other games that have since exploited the same formula. It's difficult to 
 extract yourself from a game that always keeps you on the verge of being rewarded for another achievement. 
   

  Early in the game, that otherwise effective blueprint is overused, since swarms of weak creatures 
 are hurled at you. The game is so easy until the end of act one that it gets tiresome wading through 
 crowds of pathetic beasts, several of which are less fearsome versions of counterparts from the 
 original game. The lack of resulting tension is noticeable, especially since the first Diablo increased 
 its difficulty very quickly by requiring relatively inexperienced characters to battle behemoths 
 such as the Butcher and the Skeleton King. There isn't a similarly difficult showdown in Diablo 
 II until the very end of the first act, although there are plenty of challenging confrontations 
 after that point in the game. Blizzard has always seemed intent on producing games that are extremely 
 intuitive for new players; with Diablo II, the developers may have been concerned that neophytes 
 would find all of the new character skill choices intimidating and accordingly structured the game 
 so that the early stages would give you a less stressful opportunity to get accustomed to the new 
 character development system. In addition, since the graphics for the creatures and areas at the 
 beginning of game were also created quite early in the game's development, they are substantially 
 worse than those that appear further into the game. The first act of the game is generally not 
 representative of the quality and challenge of its remainder.   

  More experienced players may be bored early in the game because of the lack of difficulty, but 
 they'll certainly appreciate the additional character development options. In addition to there 
 now being five player-character classes instead of just three, the differences between the new 
 classes are more significant than they were in the original game. In Diablo, while each of the 
 classes had different strengths and inherently performed some actions better than the other classes, 
 there were only a couple of unique class skills. In Diablo II the character development system 
 has been overhauled, and almost all skills are unique to a particular class. In addition, you get 
 to select which skills your character acquires or improves, so even characters of the same class 
 can develop completely differently. Similarly, whereas the original game's mana attribute simply 
 determined a character's spell points, it's been redefined into a more broadly useful attribute 
 that all character classes need to keep track of. The increased differentiation between classes 
 and the more expansive selection of skills appreciably enhance the game's replay value, especially 
 since Blizzard did a good job of making each class interesting. While the additional complexity 
 may make Diablo II a little less accessible to casual gamers, it's definitely the game's most significant 
 improvement over Diablo.    

 On the other hand, the graphics in Diablo II are disappointing, especially when compared with those 
 in the original game. When Diablo was released at the end of 1996, its SVGA graphics were amazing. 
 More than three years later, those low-resolution graphics no longer look impressive and barely 
 look adequate, and yet that's all Diablo II offers. There are some notable graphical improvements, 
 such as the game's lighting and translucency effects and the new parallax scrolling that gives 
 a 3D gloss to otherwise flat objects, but the game's 2D graphics are generally disappointing and 
 look pixelated and lack sharpness on larger monitors.   

  The graphics are also almost constantly obscured by the game's automap function. You can turn the 
 map off or dim its brightness, but the game's outdoor environments make the map even more necessary 
 for navigation than it was previously, so most of the time it'll be blocking your view of the game 
 world. There should have at least been an option to display a smaller version of the automap in 
 a corner of the screen where it wouldn't intrude as noticeably. Fortunately, the developers made 
 some tweaks to the game's design and interface, and the resulting improvements are noticeable, 
 even though they may not go far enough. For one thing, the game has no discernible loading-time 
 transitions between areas - only between acts. In addition, instead of having to constantly mouse-click 
 to initiate attacks, you can now just hold the mouse button down to continuously attack a creature, 
 which limits the amount of tedious mouse-clicking that was required in the original. There are 
 also additional hotkeys available for skills or spells, but there still aren't enough available 
 to give quick access to all of a character's useful abilities. Surprisingly, Westwood's Nox did 
 a better job of granting you quick access to an area map and your character's abilities, spells, 
 and items, even though accessibility was a key strength of the original Diablo.   

  While Diablo's cooperative multiplayer mode was undeniably addictive and included a variety of 
 difficulty levels unavailable in the single-player game, players still complained about the fact 
 that most of the game's quests were only accessible in the game's single-player mode. In Diablo 
 II, the single-player and multiplayer modes are almost identical, and all of the quests and difficulty 
 levels are available in both versions of the game. Multiplayer Diablo didn't permit you to save 
 the game whenever you wanted, and a character's death resulted in a hazardous and ill-equipped 
 trip back to the same dangerous area to retrieve the character's valuables. The designers of Diablo 
 II apparently believed the resulting tension generated by the multiplayer mode of the original 
 game was worth porting to the single-player mode, because that's the only way to save your game 
 in the sequel. You can no longer save the game whenever you want, and when a game is saved (either 
 automatically or when you exit a session) , new monsters are generated to populate the gaming world. 
 There are waypoints that can be activated so you can get back relatively close to where your character 
 was last exploring, but creatures will have respawned in that area, even if it was previously cleared 
 out. Leaving a game without using the "save and exit" option in the main menu could result in the 
 loss of recently acquired booty. While the new system does prevent you from constantly reverting 
 to saved games and robbing yourself of the thrill of danger while exploring a new area, it's a 
 design decision that's bound to frustrate some players.   

  The most significant problem with multiplayer Diablo was that it was too easy for hackers to create 
 powerful magic items and alter character attributes and other data files, since all of the game 
 data was stored locally, on players' hard drives. Within a couple of weeks of Diablo's release, 
 it was virtually impossible to play a non-password-protected game on Blizzard's free Internet Battle. net 
 server without being harassed by players solely intent on ruining other players' games with their 
 unnaturally overpowered characters. Battle. net now has an optional archive to store character data, 
 which should finally cure the hacking problems that plagued the original game, since would-be cheaters 
 won't be able to alter that data anymore.   

  Blizzard's Battle. net Internet servers, which were initially launched concurrently with the release 
 of the original Diablo, have proven to be unable to cope with the number of players currently trying 
 to play Diablo II online. Gameplay has so far proven to be laggy, which is surprising considering 
 Diablo II played well during beta testing and the original game played smoothly online. Once additional 
 capacity is added, Battle. net should be a more accessible and enjoyable option, which is particularly 
 relevant since features such as worldwide rankings and the game's hard-core mode are only available 
 online. Blizzard does deserve credit for adding the hard-core version of the game, which prevents 
 you from resurrecting slain characters no matter how many hours have been devoted to developing 
 them. This feature makes for a truly tense and exciting gaming experience - it's an option that 
 many won't dare try, but death for a character in Diablo's spiritual predecessors, Nethack and 
 Rogue, could have similarly brutal consequences, and those games proved to have enduring appeal. 
   

  The development team for Diablo II clearly made it a priority to respond to all of the perceived 
 problems with the original game, and players will likely appreciate most, if not all, of the resulting 
 design changes. Diablo II offers a larger gaming world, the opportunity to play an open multiplayer 
 game without being intruded upon by cheating players, and a more complex and interesting character 
 development system. While its graphics appear somewhat dated, Diablo II has incredible replay value, 
 and most importantly, it offers a lot of addictive gameplay in either the single-player or the 
 multiplayer mode.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (254 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 1:08 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 stands up quite well even when compared to today's games. It expanded and improved on 
 the original in almost every way. There were a few missteps, but on the whole, this is a classic 
 game that stands the test of time. [Note: Since the Lord of Destruction expansion comes in the 
 Diablo Battlechest bundle and that is virtually the only way to get the game anymore, I have included 
 it in this review.]
  
  The gameplay is fairly straight forward. It's an action RPG in the most traditional sense. Left 
 click on the enemy to attack and right click to use what ever spell or skill has been assigned 
 to that button. Enemies usually come in groups and you will find yourself surrounded quite often. 
 Experience is earned for each kill and leveling up allows you to spend points increasing your stats 
 and, much like World of Warcraft's talents, increase skills on a tree specific to your chosen class. 
 Diablo 2's tree is more straightforward and you will find yourself only using a one or two of the 
 skills. I was a little disappointed by this because it meant the gameplay doesn't change much as 
 I went on. Fortunately, the action stays fun throughout, so the repetition doesn't hurt the experience 
 much. The boss battles start off a little weak, but are quite epic by the end of the game. The 
 only one that really bothered me was Diablo himself. He killed me over twenty times, while none 
 of the other bosses came close, including the boss at the end of the expansion's act, who you would 
 think would be tougher. Even if a boss is too strong, you can always go back to cleared areas to 
 level up further. Enemies don't respawn after you leave a zone, but all areas are repopulated every 
 time you save and quit the game. In a move that I loved, Blizzard doesn't allow you to save the 
 game unless you are quitting. This means you cannot save before a tough battle and reload if you 
 lose. While you never die permanently, each death take a significant amount of gold as a fee and 
 dying too often can put serious strains on your gold reserves. I thought this added a great amount 
 of intensity to each fight without making death too much of a penalty.
  
  The levels are randomly generated, both in layout and in the monsters that populate it. No matter 
 how many times you play the game, you will never be able to know what is coming next. It will take 
 several playthroughs to see all of the enemies that are in the game. One thing worth noting is 
 that each level is not meant to be traveled through straight from entrance to exit like most games. 
 It isn't rare to walk into a new area but find the exit just fifty feet away from the entrance. 
 To have any chance against the later enemies and bosses, every corner of every level must be searched 
 and cleared out. The game never actually explains this, so newcomers may make the mistake of trying 
 to run straight from start to finish. The game is separated into four acts with a fifth being added 
 by the expansion. Each act has its own town that acts as your home base for healing, information 
 gathering, buying, and selling. Every town looks quite different than the others, as do the areas 
 you will explore around each city. There is far more variety in this game than in the original 
 Diablo. Basically, if you want a sense of scale, the entire first Diablo is roughly as large as 
 any single act in Diablo 2 (save for act 4, which is notably shorter than the others) .
  
  There are five classes that come with the regular version of the game and two more are added with 
 the expansion. Each class plays drastically differently, so there has to be one that will suit 
 your tastes. While the choice of seven different classes is great, it also hurts the game slightly 
 when you are looking for new equipment since most weapons and armor are class specific. In the 
 first Diablo, there were only three classes. This meant one out of every three items dropped by 
 enemies was something that could be used by your character. Now, the odds have dropped to one in 
 seven. Since it is quite common for an enemy to drop items that are worse that what you already 
 have, there can be long stretches where you don't find any new items. I actually went through an 
 entire act without finding one useful weapon or piece or armor. This is a little disappointing 
 when you consider that the game is driven so much by the loot hunting.
  
  Since you will be so overwhelmed by waves of enemy forces, the game tries to help you out by allowing 
 you to hire a mercenary to fight along side you. Each town has a unique mercenary type for hire 
 and each has their own strengths and weaknesses. These mercenaries are, by far, the weakest aspect 
 of the game. While it is cool to be able to level them up separately and give them your extra equipment 
 that you don't need, their AI is so bad that it's hard to believe that it isn't bugged. Many times, 
 you run into a fight only to find that they got stuck behind a wall and won't follow you until 
 you run back to get them. Other times they will run straight past the fight and pull more enemies 
 on top of you. Sometimes they may just stand still while you do all of the fighting. There were 
 countless times when I died simply because my mercenary didn't want to help out. I know this game 
 came from the early days of ally AI, but there has been plenty of time to patch this problem.
 
  
  The story is just enough to push you forward. It's a generic tale about the war between Heaven 
 and Hell, but it stays interesting with amazing voice acting and interesting characters. The cutscenes 
 are up to Blizzards normal top notch standards and still look good today. The game has tons of 
 replay value, not only because of its random design, but because of two more difficulties that 
 are unlocked after completion. These difficulties cannot be played by a new character, but instead 
 must be started by continuing on with a character that has already been through the game at least 
 once. The game already takes from twenty five to thirty hours to complete and these added difficulties 
 triple that number.
  
  I have always been a huge fan of the two dimensional, isometric art style employed by Diablo 2 
 and other games like it. It gives the game a hand-painted feel that helps the outdated graphics 
 still look great today. Even though there is much greater variety, I do think the original Diablo 
 actually looks better. Even still, I never ran into anything that looked bad and hurt the experience.
 
  
  Diablo 2 definitely is able to compete with any of today's games in the genre. Even with its few 
 problems, the draw to find that new sword or make that next level is too strong to resist. With 
 the Diablo Battlechest (which contains the original Diablo, Diablo 2, and the Lord of Destruction 
 expansion) available at a great price now and Diablo 3 coming soon, now is the perfect time to 
 get caught up on a great series. In my opinion, there still isn't another action RPG that could 
 be considered better than Diablo 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannytitus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 4:02 am PT
Review:  I must confess that I have never finished Diablo 1, but way back in the day when I started playing 
 Diablo 2 I didn't really know what was going on... think i was about 14 years old back then. Anyway, 
 as I started playing Diablo 2 with the barbarian I started realizing and began to understand what 
 all the hype was about. 8 years down the line and I'm still hyped about Diablo 2 and especially 
 the new Diablo 3 coming out.
  
  I'm what you would call a veteran/old school Diablo 2 player. Ive finished the game with the Barbarian, 
 Druid, Paladin, Necromancer, Sorceress and Assassin. All though I enjoyed the game most with the 
 druid, I must say that each character was a lot of fun and very unique in his/her own way.
  
  Diablo 2 is by far the best RPG Ive ever played and will probably be so for many years to come, 
 the game provides hours of enjoyment and fun, in depth story and great character customization 
 and will probably take you hours and hours to finish the game from Normal to Nightmare difficulty. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NathanH2003
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2009 12:01 am PT
Review:  RPGs and I have always had a bittersweet relationship. There are a lot of elements I like, for 
 instance getting stronger, exploration and character customization. For everything I like however, 
 there are some things that I wish were let go more often, like dice gameplay and an over reliance 
 on stats, with the player's ability about completely left out. Action RPGs, however, have always 
 received a warmer reception. Stats are there, but there's more room for the player to use his head. 
 After spending a lot of time on Champions of Norrath and its sequel, which I have always loved, 
 I decided to give the old granddad of action RPGs a shot: Diablo II. Like I pointed out in the 
 classification and Review deck, I really don't know how to describe it. Sometimes I hate it, but 
 sometimes I'm having a blast.
  
  After putting up with Final Fantasy's androgynous heroes, overly normal characters, complex plots 
 and mediocre combat, Western Hack and slash games became more appealing. So anyway, Diablo is back 
 and you have to stop him. The plot is simple, but sometimes all you want is an army of demons to 
 crush, which the game lovingly supplies. It remembers that it's a game and not just a flashy movie. 
 The dark fantasy is akin to the original Conan stories, which always had a special place in my 
 heart.
  
  The graphics are in 2D, but, although dated, they are satisfyingly gory. 3D graphics have to rely 
 on physics engines and sensible splatter patterns, but drawn animation effects can make it more 
 cartoony and messier. Watching a demon get struck across the face, and seeing his fluids fly through 
 the air as he exhales his last breath in a puddle of his own blood is incredibly satisfying. As 
 long as you can get over the fact that it's in 2D (which I never have a problem with) , there's 
 really nothing to complain about with the graphics.
  
  I chose to play as the Paladin at first, then later on as the barbarian. What I like about this 
 type of RPGs is that it allows you to play how you want to play. I've always like Knights and swords 
 and that's what I went with. The Paladin, however, can be narrow in its usefulness at times, and 
 it wasn't until the second attempt with him that I got the hang of it. The Barbarian, however, 
 was a lot more fun because of his brute strength and better for action gamers, but I soon learned 
 how certain things that the Paladin had could have been useful, like the resistance auras. While 
 it left me switching back and forth, it is important to point out that this means there's something 
 there in each character.
  
  Unfortunately, this is still in the dice gameplay world when it was released, which left me with 
 lukewarm feelings about the combat. most of the time it's just hold down the left click to until 
 either you or him dies. Blocking is passive, meaning you may be protected at the cost of a killing 
 blow on your opponent. But the repetition is eased by the hot keys. Switching auras, combat abilities 
 and spells help it feel like you have more of a say in combat. During most combat situations, it 
 can actually be fun.
  
  Where the dice gameplay doesn't work are the boss battles. Diablo 2 has some of the cheapest boss 
 battles known to man, and I'm surprised no one has really mentioned them before. Let me give you 
 an example of poor enemy design: a boss that can kill you in two shots and slows down your movement 
 speed (and, as a result, kills you before you can make a move) . Diablo 2 has these things in droves. 
 This works in actions games because you can block and dodge enemy attacks. You'll be dominating 
 hordes of enemies for four hours straight, then suddenly killed ten times by one boss.
  
  The worst part is what happens when you die. You go back to your town, stripped of your armor until 
 you run ALL THE WAY BACK to where you died. There were times where I had to run back to the same 
 boss about ten times before he finally died. I hate to break it to the fans, but this is not the 
 ingredient to good boss battles. Good boss battles make it possible to kill a boss on the first 
 try, and not force you to do a mile jog just to take a small fragment of its health and die again. 
 People tell me "Well, you haven't leveled up enough". I killed every single thing in every area 
 up to the boss fight. In good RPGs, that should be enough preparation to take him down. Above all 
 it destroys the whole Epic Battle feel if you die so many times. Even in FAQs, they say that you'll 
 die 10-17 (if you're lucky) times before killing Diablo. Is this supposed to be part of the game? 
 How the hell do people look at this and say, "Ah, this isn't frustrating!"? There is no reason 
 for a boss to be that difficult. In all non-fanboy honesty, this is something I would expect from 
 an immature rom-hack who has nothing but scorn for players.
  
  Another thing that can be treacherous is choosing the stats that you level up. I mean, sure, it 
 gives you a choice of what you want to level up and what abilities you want to learn, but choose 
 the wrong stats and you'll be frustrated for the rest of the game. A better leveling up system 
 would be to automatically improve a stat based on what you're using. As it is, the level number 
 has no concrete indication on how strong a character is. A level 20 barbarian may have used all 
 his stat points on Energy and Dexterity. This becomes a problem when a game expects you to be at 
 a certain level, stat wise, and can be overly unforgiving at times if you are not. 
  
  Now, from the last two paragraphs of rabid slandering, you might think I hate the game. I frankly 
 have no idea how I feel about it. I gave it an 8/10 because I respect it and a number of things 
 are done right, but I don't know if I really like this sort of thing. Not as good as Champions 
 of Norrath, but I still can't stop playing it for whatever reason. Unfortunately, I have to admit 
 that if not for this game, Champions would not exist. So, I'm grateful to it, but just like how 
 I'm grateful traffic jams for lowering taxes in my hometown. Let's hope that Blizzard gets rid 
 of the miserable parts of it, and does something decent in Diablo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berzao
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is the best RPG ever made!
  Nice skills, class, monsters, AMAZING bosses and a new type of magics skills that will pump you 
 up!
  
  I played this game a lot, and i never get bored! Its very fun to know all the classes power and 
 skillsm without mention the weapons! Beautiful and nice rare bows, swords, daggers, maces, staffs....
 
  The quests type is also cool! if you dont do them, you dont go to the next level! One thing that 
 really get me down was that the Expansion Lord of Destruction, one skill of the barbarian called 
 Whirlwind decreased a lot and its good as were in the original. This was a GREAT let down to me, 
 because the barbarian its my favorite class, but take this out and the game its just great, i personally 
 recommend this one, and i MEAN that!
  Now lets wait to Diablo 3 and hope that this one wouldbe greater then this one ;D
  
  thx ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXFr34k_0uTXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 1:48 am PT
Review:  Alright so I am bored and felt like jumping around gamespot to read some reviews on old games, 
 in which I came across Diablo 2. I felt like I had to stop and reminisce about my experiences playing 
 this work of art.
  
  At first when I bought the game, I didn't feel it was THAT great of a game ... mainly because I 
 played single player. However, this game is free online so I decided, what the hell, lets play 
 online for a bit. The addiction kicked in as soon as started playing bnet. The servers now are 
 kind of outdated and what not, but the experience is just amazing. The game is totally built around 
 getting better gear and leveling your character most of the time, unless you are like me and love 
 PvP at different level bases, such as 9,29,42, etc. The expansion adds a great amount of content 
 that just carries the gamer into a "can't stop playing" mode. Looking back, I think I enjoyed this 
 game over any other game I have ever played...
  
  If you happen to ever read this short review, and never played Diablo 2 ... Go buy the battlechest, 
 install Diablo2 and the exp ... and just play.
  
  You will not ever regret it!!
  
  -Fr34k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWT2008
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  DIablo II takes Diablo 1 and gives it the makeover of the century. Upgrading the graphics, gameplay, 
 sound, and adding the online multiplayer, make this a superb gaming achievement. As far as online 
 games go, I rank this up there with the massively popular starcraft. I MMORPGs like DIablo, because 
 unlike World of Warcraft, or Everquest, etc., there is an ending. The best part of the game is 
 not beating the game, but going online, and leveling up all different kinds of characters, getting 
 all the uniques and rares, gemming weapons, etc. This game excells in the massive replay value. 
 Unlike the MMORPGs that seem to never end, this game offers closure, and then the opportunity to 
 go beyond if you so desire.
  
  The environments are magnificent, creature development is beyond imagination, and the sound/music 
 never gets old or annoying. If you don' feel like devoting your entire life to a video game, but 
 instead just want to have fun (the purpose of video games) , then go for games like Diablo 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_arya1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 11:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is just awesome!!
  from game play to graphics!!
  for the year 2000 a game of this magnitude with such quality is just amazing
  
  the different 
 classes give u limitless possibilities and the hunt to complete your weapons set can keep you occupied 
 forever
  the various skill trees also give you an opportunity to play the game over again with a different 
 style altogether..
  i remember playing this game for years n years 
  my favorite character is by far the barbarian
  dual weapons n brute force is the way to go baby!!
 
  the enemies provide a good test for your skill and it never gets boring
  but its not like ur invincible either..
  you constantly need to open portals that act as quick 
 respwans..
  
  this game has the perfect blend of challenge and fun and you can just go on forever...
  
  the 
 multiplayer co-op is also quite fun
  teaming up with a frnds character also increases the difficulty but it adds to the fun,,
  
 
  overall one of the best action rpg's of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingofbirds
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2009 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I know that i might be in the minority here but i think diablo 2 is better than the first one. 
 First of all there are the three classes. Being able to choose wichever rought you want is a big 
 plus. There is also the skills. 
  
  I bought the battle chest version (i know have all three of them, warcraft, diablo, and starcraft) and 
 that is the way to go. You get the original diablo, plus #2 and the expansion set (lords of destruction) . Also 
 there is the strategy guide. it has helped me get throough this grueling game like a real person 
 could.
  
  
  Finally, this game is no dungeons and dragons. Its bloody and when you kill big things they have 
 a tendancy to spill their guts all over you. 
  
  
  Overall this iz an awesome game and dont listen to people that say 1 is so good cuz its not (Icant 
 even beat it) .
  
  Hope this helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar_999
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 7:13 am PT
Review:  diablo 2 is a nice rpg that go's at it in a diffrent aproch of making everything in real time as 
 well as a sort of hack and slash style to make in generaly fun compared to other rpgs,
  
  Storyline 8/10 original
  
  you pick and choose your class out of 5 paladin ,amazon, barbarian, 
 necromancer, sorceress, and go through the 4 acts of ranging in diffrent enviorment type's to chase 
 after the boss of course which is daiblo, this will be done by doing the finnal quest in each act 
 and talking to the vairous npc's in town to progress through the game while having other sidequest's 
 you can complete which are totaly optional and not forced (with the exception of act 2)
  and... that's mainly it, all you need to know about the storyline really, it has the same formula 
 in each act just turned into really notably used diffrently which is an ok thing,
  
  Gameplay 10/10 epic
  
  its very interesting that the gameplay of the game is nearly perfect, 
 out of the freedom of choosing a class along with there own set of about 30 skill's types each, 
 freedom to do a quest or not, random item spawning after killing an enemy that's well balance to 
 not give to weak or to high gear, along with real time gameplay, it just equals plain fun, and 
 if you download a patch from b. net, your skill's will gain synergys (skills that add bonus's to 
 other skills) making the other skill's you liked and rasied less useless, but what really is the 
 main element of the game is multyplayer, if your going to buy this game for single player your 
 losing out alot of experance because in multyplayer aspect of this game really brings out the true 
 potential of the game itself and nearly into an entirley new diffrent element, im sure you can 
 imagion what happens when any of this 2 classes are combined in one game and for those who worry 
 about diffculty, there's 3 setting's to throw any char to there limit, normal, nightmare, hell, 
 (normal, hard, very hard) along if someone else is present in your game it will make monsters stronger 
 while vice versa applys, with all this said, this is the main focus of the game and done overally 
 well,
  
  Graphics 7/10 it fail's
  
  of course graphics have to be sacrficed to maintian the great gameplay, but in my opinoin is a 
 great thing, im not saying it's terrible graphics now, its just not great, so in short it's just 
 decent then what it could been i think,
  
  Music 8/10 mixed reactions
  
  music in this game does defently match to there respective place's, but none of them are really 
 hitting epic level's or when you hear the same turn over and over you want to turn it off and play 
 your music sometimes, looking at it really most of the music hit's the rank of good to great level's
 
  
  
  final word... diablo 2 is mainly an rpg that promote's gameplay over everything else which many 
 other rpg's seem to fail at, along with having everything else at a decent level and up to 8 player's 
 in multyplayer aspect, it's just pure fun,
  i honestly have to say though go multyplayer with this game or try advoiding to buy it if your 
 not going to, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theobsessiveone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II is a great game. I played a Barbarian all the way through, and took him into the next 
 difficulty setting before getting trounced early on. Nightmare mode is much tougher in this version 
 of the Diablo game! I even toyed with Hardcore mode for a while, just to see how tough it was. 
 It definitely lived up to its name. Once your character dies, that's it. Period. 
  Currently there's 5 in my graveyard... 
  
  Played an Amazon into act 3, but didn't finish her. 
 Yet. Will get back to her eventually. 
  
  Then played a Sorceress. I was disappointed by her weaknesses. The original Diablo had a great 
 Sorcerer that could kick some serious tail. This female version is unimpressive. Her mana needs 
 far outweigh her destructive spell capabilities. I spent more time running from hordes than running 
 through them. And I very much like playing Sorcs. Huge fan of right-clicking! 
  
  Tried a Necromancer. Felt too much like an RTS to me. Maybe eventually. 
  
  Finally tried a 
 Paladin. He's like a holy warrior, so he's a little more interesting, but ultimately just not enough. 
 Yet. I'm working on it. Some of his spells will be better once they're stronger. 
  
  Have not tried the Lord of Destruction expansion because I'm investing some serious time into collecting 
 my armor/ring sets. Can't bid in the expansion. For some reason this feature was removed or restricted. 
 At least online, from what I hear. 
  
  Until recently, I have never been interested in playing Diablo II online, so I can't attest to 
 its capabilities in that area, as yet. (I'm still on a dinosaur PC)
  
  Despite minor setbacks with some of the characters, I thoroughly enjoyed this game. When I finally 
 have a computer truly capable of handling all the graphics, I'll update my review. I'm sure it 
 will be more detailed and informative. 
  
  
  But for now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darKnight92
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 9:38 am PT
Review:  this comes a decade later then expected only because i finished this just recently.
  
  alright so overall, this game is alright, there's a healthy variety of classes for the player to 
 choose from, namely, the amazon, barbarian, necromancer, sorceress and the paladin, all of which 
 'specialize' in a certain field, range combat, melee, death and curse magic, elemental magic, support, 
 respectively.
  
  the game itself has a very well-knitted storyline and the gorgeous cinematics which play by the 
 end of each act makes playing through this somewhat an enjoyable and worthwhile process.
  
  however, the length of each act is slightly long and the repetitive gameplay makes it get tedious 
 and boring after some time when playing solo through the entire game.
  
  despite that, it is worth noting that when playing online via battle. net, the experience is completely 
 different and immensely entertaining even though the classes and skills that are available is limited, 
 it is good enough to last you for most of the game.
  
  all in all, the game does get boring when you're alone but with other players, it is a completely 
 different story which makes this worth the buy if you're into online gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdvalencia
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ever, has amazing graphics it also has three different normal, nightmare, 
 and hell and you could continue to use your character in the three different levels with your same 
 powers and become more powerful; this also an awesome online video game created because what is 
 more amazing than playing with your friends and kick monsters butt. This is the best game ever, 
 has amazing graphics it also has three different normal, nightmare, and hell and you could continue 
 to use your character in the three different levels with your same powers and become more powerful; this 
 also an awesome online video game created because what is more amazing than playing with your friends 
 and kick monsters butt. This is the best game ever, has amazing graphics it also has three different 
 normal, nightmare, and hell and you could continue to use your character in the three different 
 levels with your same powers and become more powerful; this also an awesome online video game created 
 because what is more amazing than playing with your friends and kick monsters butt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katjuska
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Game is AMAZING!!! This game is great but the expasion is GODLY! This game is all you need! I have 
 spend over 100 hours with this game and i play this still. Best in this game is it's stuff what 
 isn't as hard to find as at WoW and u can beat this game by your own if u have good character. 
 I Think Paladin is most powerfulest character in this game. I can tell you, this game is perfect 
 expet that you have to beat this game tree times (normal, nightmare and HELL) and then are same 
 acts but its more difficult. I GIVE 10!!!
  
  Game is AMAZING!!! This game is great but the expasion is GODLY! This game is all you need! I have 
 spend over 100 hours with this game and i play this still. Best in this game is it's stuff what 
 isn't as hard to find as at WoW and u can beat this game by your own if u have good character. 
 I Think Paladin is most powerfulest character in this game. I can tell you, this game is perfect 
 expet that you have to beat this game tree times (normal, nightmare and HELL) and then are same 
 acts but its more difficult. I GIVE 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is the epitome of cool. I took the best hack and slash game ever, tweaked, tuned and 
 improved on it in almost every conceivable way.
  
  I still go back to it so often it's hard to believe that it's 8 years old. The game added new classes 
 making in total 5 classes each with it pros and cons so you could play the way that you wanted 
 to, and within these classes you could choose which direction to take them on as well. Wanted a 
 barbarian that used maces, but no shield you could, a mage that specialized in fire, you could...
 
  
  The mechanics were basically unchanged from the first you want to kill something? Click on it. 
 Cast a spell? Right click. Easy but not quite. There in lies the challenge, using the right spell 
 technique or weapon to take down an enemy. Or the waves of enemies as the case may be.
  
  The game is not without it's flaws and it is more noticeable now than it was then. It is not a 
 particularly pretty game anymore, the textures are quite blocky and pixelated but not terrible 
 considering it's time.
  
  The game had a habit of sucking you in there was always just the next quest to complete, the next 
 level to gain or the next piece of great weapon or Armour to obtain. And boy have I been sucked 
 in time and time again...
  
  Needless to say time has been spent in both the online and offline component of this game... Thanks 
 to Battle. Net it was the first great online lobby I can remember, by today's standards it is not 
 too far removed and seemless as we all like but hell it was fun and tried to keep the online community 
 exploit free (didn't always work) by storing characters on servers online.
  
  This game will go down as one of the all time greats of the genre. Blizzard outdid itself on this 
 effort and it is efforts like this that will ensure fans keep coming back for their games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 takes on from where the previous game Diablo left off, both in gameplay and story. Diablo 
 left off with the protagonist piercing his head with a shard of the soulstone. Diablo 2 however 
 starts as being narrated by a man Marrius (or maybe Narrius) to a cloaked figure whom he constantly 
 refers to as Tyreal. Marrius starts off by telling the story of how the protagonist from the previous 
 game ,who has been constantly refered to as "The Wanderer", wreaked havoc in a rogue encampent 
 where Marrius had been staying. After that he commands Marrius to follow him. The game starts from 
 this point.
  
  The player can choose between 5 characters (Amazon, Necromancer, Barbarian, Sorcoress and Paladin) . 
 Amazon is good with Bow and Arrow and Javellins. Necromancer himself contains quite little stength 
 but can instantly create a massively powerful army of skeletons, undead, golems and ghouls. Barbarian 
 as his name suggests is a brute force character and is good with any weapon that can smash things 
 - Swords, Axes, Polearms, Maces and anything that goes Boom. He's also my personal favourite as 
 there is very few who can stand upto him in melee comat (even Diablo is weaker than him in melee, 
 though a later character called Hephasto proved to be a small pain in the ass) . Sorceress is a 
 witch kind of woman who does all kinds of voodoo. She can be very powerful if she is allowed to 
 develop, but at the begining she is damn weak. Paladin is something like a holy knight or something. 
 His speciality lies in auras, which are explained later. He can also do a few neat tricks like 
 convert an enemy to your side or do some mad bashing with the sword.
  
  A few new game additions are Auras, Spectrals and Sidekicks. Auras are kinds of force-field stuffs 
 that may protect you when you are attacked (defensive) or may attack with you when you attack somebody (offensive) . 
 One specific aura is the cold aura that has the capacity to freeze and hence slow down your enemies. 
 However auras can be used only by Paladins or by enemies. Spectral hits are attacks that incorporate 
 powerful natural attacks like Cold, Fire, Lightning or Poison. Certains enemies contain spectral 
 hits and you can get them by inserting gems into your weapons if they are socketed. Sidekicks are 
 available in the first three acts. The level of the side kick you have depends on your character 
 level.
  
  The first act occurs in a rogue encampment. You battle your ways to fulfill quests given to you 
 by NPCs (Non Playable Characters - They are the people who roam about in the town) . Finally you 
 get to battle a boss at the end of every act. The first act's boss is Andariel, Maiden of Anguish.
 
  
  After defeating her, a cinematics shows Marrius following the wanderer on a desert. At night when 
 they were sleeping Marrius has a dream. In the dream he sees what had happened to Baal. As I have 
 mentioned in the Review of Diablo. Diablo went to Tristram while Mephisto went to the temple of 
 light in Kurast and corrupted Sankakuer, the chief priest and his council members. Baal had however 
 gone to the eastern lands of Lut Gholein. There a group of people known as the Horadrims, whose 
 sole purpose was to capture and destroy the 3 prime evils, was following Baal and was trying to 
 imprison him in his own soulstone. But due to some reason the stone had broken and so a horadrim 
 named Tal Rasha contained Baal within him, while an angel pierced him with the soulstone and then 
 tied him to an enchanted rock. This angel was none other than the archangel of high heavens, Tyreal. 
 In this way, Baal was bound to the body of Tal Rasha.
  
  The second act contains an important item called the Horadric Cube. It has the property of transmutation, 
 that is it if you put any two objects together and transmute them you might get a new item. It 
 however depends o you to find out the possible combinations. However in the act we use it to transmute 
 two artifacts to create the Horadric Staff. We use it to unlock the tomb of Tal Rasha. When we 
 enter it, we find us face to face with Duriel, Lord of Pain. After killing him, we find Tyreal 
 who tells that Diablo has freed his brother Baal and has gone to Kurast to unite with Mephisto.
 
  
  The next cutscene shows how the wanderer was coming back to his own form of Diablo, though the 
 transformation is incomplete. He then battles with Tyreal and tricks Marrius in freeing his brother. 
 Tyreal freezes all time and tells Marrius of his mistake and asks him to go to the Temple of Light 
 in Kurast and go through the door to hell and destroy the soulstone that he had taken out of Tal 
 Rasha's body to free Baal.
  
  The next act occurs in Kurast. The people of Kurast have come under the evil influence of the Zakarum 
 religion preached by Mephisto who had taken over Sankakuer. We battle our way to meet Mephisto. 
 After defeating Mephisto, a door to hell is opened, which we take.
  
  The next cutscene shows how Marrius had entered the temple but seeing the true form of his travelling 
 companion got scared and ran away. Diablo, in his true form enters hell which was in that time 
 in a kind of a civil war between the 2 leaders of hell - Belial and Azmodan. Baal is also present 
 in the meeting and so we surmise that he must have escaped before we came.
  
  The next act occurs in hell, and true to it's name, this level is hell. The monsters are simply 
 too tough (though not too tough for a Barbarian) . Unlike previous acts which asked you to complete 
 6 quests, this asks you to finish only 3. The first one in to defeat the fallen angel Izhual (he 
 was the guy who told Diablo about how to use the soulstones) . Next mission is to destroy Mephisto's 
 soulstone in the Hell Forge. In the Hell Forge, you must battle and defeat Hephasto, a massively 
 powerful thing (I think it is related to the greek god Hephasteus) defeating whom may be a bit tougher 
 than defeating Diablo. The final and most impotrant mission is to defeat Diablo. After defeating 
 Diablo, the final cinematics appears. Marrius narrates that both Mephisto's and Diablo's soulstone 
 had been destroyed in the Hell Forge and only the soulstone of Baal remained which he had kept 
 with himself. I won't narrate what happens after this, so play the game to know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petruvai
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  I loved Diablo I, and I absolutely love Diable II. Now I can't wait for Diablo III. I have played 
 this game more than any other game, ever. I have marked that I've played it for 40-100 hrs but 
 honestly I think it may be over 100 hrs. I would play this game for days and days and do almost 
 nothing else (although I am an adult so I had to go to work) . I have virtually nothing bad to say 
 about this game. I have only praise for the geniuses at Blizzard. They are the best game creators 
 for the PC and I wish they would make some equally amazing games for consoles such as the Xbox 
 360. Diablo III would be amazing to play on the 360 and I would most likely buy Diablo II if a 
 port for 360 came out even now, years after its original release. This is the greatest gaming series 
 that I've ever played and I hope that it continues for many more years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxfox93
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  Diablo II is an old game but it really makes a lot of fun!
  I like to play in Battle. net , u can meet a lot of nice people there and beat the game with them!
 
  The 4 Acts are very nice and the story of the game is also interresting.
  I think the classes are very well done (my fav. is the sorc ;D)
  There are a lot of skills and 
 a lot of items.
  Its very hard to beat the game in singleplayer...
  But it isnt impossible...
  
  If u like games like sacred or titan quest this is a game for 
 YOU!
  
  Its much more better than diablo I...
  In the different acts you will meet a lot of Npcs or monsters.
  
  U can find or buy items...
 
  
  Oh **** i really dunno what to write I NEED MORE WORDS XD
  
  LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I just killed Diablo about 15 minutes ago and feel pretty good about myself. This game had sort 
 of a legendary status in my mind and I was awed by it for quite a while...
  
  However, since beating the game I realize that I have much fonder memories of "true" isometric 
 RPGs from this era, such as the Baldur's Gate series or Planescape: Torment. 
  
  Action is what Diablo 2 is all about and it does action very well. There are tons of monsters and 
 you will probably find yourself in some very difficult situations. It takes a little bit of effort 
 to get through this game and stats/equipment/skills all really make the difference. 
  
  In that sense (i. e. the stats/equipment/skills making a difference) it is an RPG, however, the 
 story isn't anything special and, being an action RPG, there are no dialogue options or alternate 
 endings. 
  
  In a nutshell, Diablo 2 is a terrific action oriented RPG that does everything an action RPG should; 
 however, if you are looking for a really deep game story-wise then look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightgarr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II is considered now to be a classic in PC roleplaying. Its predecessor remains gamespot's 
 top rated PC ever. So how does it stack up to Diablo? Well, as it happens, sequels to great games 
 try and change it up because that's what needs to happen when you make a new game, but not all 
 these changes needed to have been made. In fact some of them were simple poor choice.
  
  We'll start with how the game changed basic gameplay. This is simple, the classes are now more 
 defined and differ greatly from one another. Each class has a skill tree which determines how it 
 will f*ck up the baddies; do you want way x, y or z? Thankfully, each class works very well to 
 support themselves in single player without getting too screwed over. Then again, there's very 
 little that makes classes like the Paladin recommendable over the classes like Barbarian (who tanks 
 through enemies like they were cake) or the sorceress (who can take out multiple enemies at once) . 
 On top of this, because each character is so capable, it makes having a class system fairly useless 
 in multiplayer. For a class system to work properly they need to support one another, but when 
 you have the "everyone is special" approach, it take away from multiplayer. Which takes me to my 
 next point about the class system. It's still not recommendable over Diablo's class system. In 
 the predecessor you choose the mage, the rogue or the warrior, but this only determined you starting 
 stats and your appearance. The game allowed it so that you could evolve the warrior to be a fantastic 
 mage if you felt that you preferred magic after a certain point. This is something that I feel 
 the Diablo II system doesn't really work as well with.
  
  Diablo II on the other hand did some excellent things to change up gameplay. Although not drastic 
 things, they help make the game all the better. That my friend, is variety. When I started Diablo 
 II, I saw the opening area and thought, oh great, its the same sh*thole as Tristram with a new 
 spriteset. I was thoroughly impressed though, when I was transported to the second town where I 
 discovered the variety of terrain and monsters the game had to offer. And not just sprite changing 
 on the monsters either; many you had to fight in an entirely new way.
  
  But the monsters lead me to my final point on where DII has failed. Diablo is all about running 
 around randomized areas filled to the brim with baddies for you chop through like knife through 
 hell's sh*ttiest meanest butter. Because of the sheer amount and calibur of some of the baddies 
 Diablo, and Diablo II's, difficulty can be entirely punishing. Now this is not a bad thing at all, 
 a challenge is excellent. The problem lies in a core game mechanic in DII which is an utter lack 
 of saving. While, it does make sense to make your death be the same in multiplayer as in single, 
 it creates an annoying trend of you having to retrieve all your sh*t with nothing to protect yourself 
 with, and your body is surrounded by a horde of monsters that killed you when you actually had 
 DECENT stuff. And yes I know, "use the stash dumbass", but I shouldn't have to, I should be free 
 to save and load as I please. And thanks to the respawning every time quit the game, it makes each 
 session become a long term commitment. This combination is what takes the great elements that DII 
 has and throws them into the p*ss pond.
  
  Diablo II is still a great game, don't get me wrong, but I'm an advocate for the single players. 
 The one's who don't want to have to worry about PvP and the douchebag teabagging my corpse. As 
 that advocate I feel that DII is a good experience, but not as a roleplaying game, as a multiplayer 
 dungeon crawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cegaiga
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  It has been a while playing Diablo 2 since I have Vista as my operating system, but I will always 
 remember the good times with it.
  
  GRAPHICs: For its day, the graphics were absolutely awesome. Bare in mind that was 8 years ago, 
 the graphics now are still quite good, not brilliant but good enough. 9/10
  
  
  GAMEPLAY: Brilliant, so many monsters to slay and many bosses to defeat. I love it how you have 
 so many skill sets. Also, some skills give you bonuses for other skills, so having a good knowledge 
 of your character makes it even more fun :) Many characters to choose, as each one is unique. Difficult 
 to choose your starting character! 10/10
  
  OTHER: The only thing Diablo 2 lacks is PVP, I mean you go outside of town and that is basically 
 the arena. If somebody hostiles you, he can attack you anywhere outside of town which ruins gameplay 
 sometimes. 6/10
  
  The online gameplay is basically playing with your friends, and competing with other players to 
 try and get the highest overall experience. The trading system is simple and creating games is 
 easy :)
  
  
  Overall, you must get this game! It costs no more than $15 for the expansion and the normal game, 
 so get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaSoul
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  To start off, Ill just say that i havent played the game lately, and i am writing this review completely 
 on past expirience.
  Ok, The gameplay... The gameplay was just awesome for the time. The game is a mix between a hardcore 
 RPG and a easy dungeon crawler. The game is very easy to pick up but hard to master, like most of 
 the blizzard games. The graphics arent great, but they are not the best with a reason-the reason 
 is accessibility, it doesnt require a supercomputer to run, like Age Of Conan, but in some places 
 it is much better than newer rpgs. The story is just a masterpiece, like most of the blizzard stories. I 
 dont wanna get indepth with the story, because it would be really hard to explain. The difficulty 
 isnt punishing, like most of nowdays rpgs. There are three difficulty levels tho. Normal, Nightmare 
 and Hell. What they basically do is give enemies more health and resistances to certain attack types. For 
 example in normal only bosses and random boss monsters have resistances, while in hell the first 
 monsters you encounter will probably have two resistances each, and as your character completes 
 difficulty levels he/she gains titles. There are three titles, which of the title when you complete 
 hell changes with the expanison. In the game there are 4 acts,5 if you get the expansion. As i said 
 before the story is really good, has some little twists, and is very difficult to explain. You start 
 the game at a normal Farmland like looking place, i dont currently remember its name, but from there 
 you go to a desert, with a big town called Lut Golhein, and from there you go to a swamp and marshland 
 filled place, where you will meet the first of Diablos brothers, and from there, you go to basically 
 Hell itself, but if you have the expansion you will go to a snow and ice filled land to face the 
 final brother of diablo. Diablo was in hell by the way, the act 4 i was talking about. Then theres 
 a multiplayer for the game. You can play with other people to complete the story, or just duel them 
 or trade. Now for the summaries
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is just superb in every way, fast paced, action packed and potion filled: P
  10/10
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics arent too great, but hey! its a 2000 game! So they deserve a good mark still
  9.5/10
 
  
  DIFFICULTY
  The game is easy, but sometimes gets a bit hard, and deserves the title of Just right
  9.7/10
 
  
  OVERALL
  Diablo 2 is a great game for the time, and deserves the rating of:
  9.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GraphitePanther
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I have picked up and dropped this game since itrs release often times playing for many months each 
 time. I stil havn't found an RPG that has captured my attention (and time) more than this game, 
 There is just something about it that will suck you in and instantly 8 hours have passed by. There 
 is quite a bit to this game although the gameplay isn't that complex, this works heavily to diablo 
 II's advantage as it can be a fast pick up game if you only have a few minutes to play (can turn 
 into several hours though) There are literally thusands of items ranging from basic to unique and 
 also set items and too much more to explain. For some reason all of the other aspects are so addicting 
 that a lot of clicking seems like a very small flaw. This game's multiplayer through battle. net 
 has and always will be free I don't have money to waste on subscription fees, I like paying for 
 a game once... Even after all these years i would recommend picking up the diablo II battle chest 
 it is cheap and the community in this game has never faltered there are still thousands playing 
 it to this day, also it would help aquaint you with the storyline before diablo 3 :0. Long story 
 short this is an everlasting masterpiece and is the only game i can give a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxDeadeyesxX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  **I do mention the expansion is this review but not enough that I feel it belongs in that section.**
 
  
  Plot/Overview
  -------------------------
  
  A genre-defining hack and slash deathfest that has kept me going long into many nights, Diablo 
 2 evolves and overshadows its dungeon-crawling predecessor. The game stars you, the new hero who 
 thinks their gonna slay the many, many (many) beasts and bring happiness to everybodyminus the 
 beasts. You start off in the rogue encampment with a rabble of people who seem to know much more 
 than you of the dangers that lay ahead and none of whom seem to want to do anything about it. So 
 it's up to you, the seemingly much more powerful level 1, to dispatch Diablo's minions and finally 
 the keeper of the Chaos Sanctuary. After the grassy fields of the chapter 1 are stained with the 
 blood of the fallen, you journey through a dessert, the Kurast jungle, and finally Hell itself. 
 The expansion pack takes you to the snowy mountain aside the town of Harrogath, and into the depths 
 of the mountain to the Worldstone Keep, where Baal, Diablo's brother, seeks to destroy the Worldstone. 
 Breaking the Worldstone would allow the depths of Hell and its creatures to spill forth into Earth. 
 
  
  I'll admit, the story in Diablo 2 is thin, and really who cares? The story isn't the reason why 
 you play this game. To tell the truth, I skipped all the cutscenes and half the dialogue. If you 
 play D2 you play because you enjoy the sight of legions of monsters getting incinerated at the 
 click of a button or the sound of your axe slicing through the bones of the undead. The game is 
 about killing and arranging all the stuff you pick up in the limited space provided, so if you're 
 a Tetris fan who always thought the blocks would look better covered in blood and guts then you're 
 in for a treat.
  
  
  Graphics
  ----------------
  
  For it's time, the graphics in D2 are great, and the expansion pack only helps with the 5th chapter 
 scenery and the 800x600 resolution. The environments get gradually better as the game goes on, 
 ranging from semi-bland grassy area to grimy black land accented by blazing (and most of the time 
 blinding) red/orange lava in Hell. The characters are all unique, although they all start to look 
 similar once the armour goes on them. The stronger armour makes your character look better, but 
 that being said each armour doesn't have a distinct look, which is a little disappointing given 
 the pictorial representation of each item in your inventory. All the items look so much better 
 before you put them on, which is a let down when a stock weapon has curves, jewels, or spikes once 
 you get to the equip screen. The only character who's skills look really good in my opinion are 
 the sorceresses, because hers show off the best visual aspects the game has to offer, which are 
 the flame and lightning effects. The fire in D2 is quite realistic, but the lightning is beautiful. 
 It streaks across the screen like a drunk sports fan and lights the area it travels to, revealing 
 enemies who aren't struck by it's fury. The monsters in the game are creative (especially in the 
 later chapters) but get repetitive, as there are only a few types that just get rendered in different 
 colours to distinguish them from their weaker counterparts. What I really enjoyed (while not panicking 
 from having to face them) were the bosses. Each chapter has a boss that goes with its environment 
 (except for the third which is kind of random) , and each has a variety of attacks that will a) 
 impress you as they are different from anything you've seen in game and b) dig you an early grave, 
 but lets save overpowered boss attacks for the gameplay section. 
  
  
  Sound
  -------------------
  
  The sound in D2 is forgettable, to the point that I have the sound turned 
 off and my iTunes on in the background. But if you are going to listen to it, you are treated to 
 a lot of death noises and monologues from your character which don't really tell you anything you 
 didn't know already. Likewise, the skill sound effects are unimpressive. The only one I really 
 liked is the Barbarians Whirlwind, which sounded like Crash Bandicoot when he spins, so it brought 
 back some nostalgia for me. The only thing I would advise turning the sound on for is to hear Cain's 
 Sean Connery impression, which after one or two sentences you realise is (unfortunately) his actual 
 voice.
  
  
  Gameplay 
  --------------------
  
  Gameplay in D2 consists of killing, picking up stuff from the recently deceased, and dropping things 
 to make room for more stuff. Almost any kill will net you a drop, most of which is equipment. This 
 prompts the question, "If the zombie I just sliced in two had a plate armour, why wasn't he wearing 
 it? It may have prevented the whole sliced in two thing" The space they give you to manage all 
 of this stuff is VERY limited, and you will constantly find yourself with no space left and in 
 dire need to return to town while in the thick of combat. As you can imagine, this gets annoying 
 within the first hour and doesn't stop throughout the rest of the game. You shouldn't however let 
 that stop you, as the good outweighs that bad. The killing part of the game can be executed quite 
 easily, or excruciatingly bad depending on how you build your character. Each character has their 
 own set of skills; some good, some not so good, and some that to this day have never really been 
 known to have a use. As much as you can mess your character up by using the wrong skills (and this 
 happens easily) , your character can be made or broken by their equipment (which is why the aforementioned 
 space issue is such a problem; how do you find better equipment if you can't pick anything up?) . 
 
  
  Controlling your character is easy. Point. Click. Done. If you don't like to click or have a faulty 
 mouse then stay far away from this game as it will cause nightmares. You click to do EVERYTHING. 
 Move, attack, pick up, drop, buy, and sell, all controlled by the little gauntlet that hovers over 
 you at all times. The only thing not mouse controlled are the potions (which can be mouse controlled 
 but when you're dying and in desperate need to either run or kill the disgruntled lackey attacking 
 you then it's rarely an option) . That's another thing to be wary of, make friends with the potion 
 merchant. You will go through potions like you've just bought a years supply and they expire tomorrow. 
 
  
  One thing I really don't like about the game and something that I believe takes away from its accessibility 
 is its difficulty curve. It starts off a few steps short of dull with minimal resistance from what 
 you'd prefer dead and for the first couple hours inclines nicely. The enemies get a little harder 
 and start to come in bigger groups and all the while you've been running around and eating your 
 spinach so now you're flying right through it. Then you hit a brick wall of enemies that are harder 
 than the mini bosses you've been dealing with and are coming at you in swarms. This would have 
 been fine if there had been any middle ground at all to speak of but there isn't. One minute you're 
 enjoying the bloody gurgles of your most recent kill and the next you're fleeing for your life 
 from the exact same thing you just killed only in blue instead of brown. If you do manage to make 
 it past that wall and go on to the nightmare difficulty then you are faced with another, which 
 sports a few more bricks and a lot more cement. This is however still do able, and with enough 
 senseless violence you can overcome. Unfortunately, once you beat the game on nightmare and start 
 over on hell, the wall becomes a mountain and the difficulty curve pitches vertical. 
  
  
  Re-Playability
  ------------------------
  
  High. You can play this game a lot and still 
 only scratch the surface. Each character can be built multiple ways and because the map is randomly 
 generated each play is unique. Not only that, but the loot you get each time is going to be different, 
 and will allow you to evolve your strategy differently. This game's life is as long as your mouse 
 cares to last before right click becomes a 50/50 deal and left click is a pipedream.
  
  
  Fun Factor
  ----------------------
  
  This game is a lot of fun. There's multiple ways to 
 ruin your foes' day and each one entertaining, even when performed a million times. If you're looking 
 for something to play for a half hour or something to blow your weekend on, this game has a good 
 time to offer.
  
  
  Score 
  ----------------
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 5/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Re-Playability: 5/5
  Fun Factor: 5/5
  Overall: 32/40 
::::::

::::::
UserName: om3ga_storm
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, Blizzard makes awesome games, and Diablo 2 is not an exception.
  
  Like the first Diablo, it's pretty much enter monster infested area, start clicking. 
  There 
 are 5 unique character classes to choose from and each one really allows a lot of customization 
 as to what kind of skills you will invest in.
  
  The loot is incredible as well. Monsters drop so much loot and every so often you'll have to decide 
 which awesome item to keep.
  
  Although this game is still very fun in single player, multiplayer is where most of the fun lies. 
 Besides the added fun factor, you get advantages such as more loot and chance of better items and 
 more xp at the expense of stronger creatures. But that's where the fun is; your party can work 
 together to fight off Diablo's minions.
  
  And with modern day computers, you can literally start playing in minutes. There are no load times 
 inside the game (unless you're switching acts but that takes less than 5 secs) . On battle. net, 
 the game's supported online system, it is not uncommon for you to level up quite fast.
  
  So if you haven't bought this game yet, do so now and you'll have fun, i'll promise you that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  The original Diablo made a sensation, winning praise among the critics and gamers alike. This second 
 game in the installment is just as great. It sticks to the same old formula of its predecessor, 
 while building up on the original with several new features and an engaging storyline which picks 
 up from where the original let off.
  
  The basic gameplay is quite simple. Fight wave after wave of hell's minions, gain experience points, 
 level up and develop your character. Combat forms the major part, rather all of the game. Though 
 this in itself may seem to lack variety, it prevents you from getting sidetracked, thereby allowing 
 you to concentrate on the main game.
  
  You start out by choosing a character class, a la every other RPG. You can choose from 5 classes: 
 Amazon, Barbarian, Paladin, Necromancer and Sorceress. Each class has its own unique set of skills, 
 which again are categorized under 3 disciplines, and they differ in their starting attributes. 
 The classes are distinctly different from each other though all items can be used by any class. 
 The difference lies in the skills and each class has 30 unique skills. Two characters of the same 
 class can also be entirely different depending upon the skills they have learnt.
  
  Character development is given much emphasis, though it is kept relatively simple. There are four 
 character attributes, among which you distribute the 5 attribute points you get for each level 
 up. The Strength attribute denotes the damage you can deal to the enemy for each strike. Dexterity 
 governs the rate of success of striking an enemy as well as blocking an enemy attack. It also governs 
 the rate and power of ranged attacks. Vitality is a measure of your Health, which are your character's 
 hit points. Energy governs stamina, the capacity for the character to keep running at a stretch, 
 as well as Mana, the character's spiritual essence. Most skills require mana if you want to use 
 them. These stats may also be enhanced using certain magically imbued items.
  
  The game spans across four acts, each set in a different location in the Sanctuary, which is the 
 name of the Diablo game world. You play as one of the characters and seek out the Diablo, the Lord 
 of Destruction, who is attempting to releasing his brothers, Mephisto and Baal. The three together 
 form the Prime Evils of the Demon kind.
  
  You accomplish six missions in each act to move on to the next Act. The missions are quite linear 
 and there are no side-missions or secondary objectives, thereby lacking variety and depth. These 
 missions, though varying in their ultimate objectives, will effectively have you ploughing through 
 hordes of monsters. Once again there is a lack of variety of what you do, as you keep killing monster 
 after monster in pretty much the same way each time, and there is no need for a strategy in most 
 cases.
  
  However this lack of variety is compensated by a randomly generated map for each game and randomly 
 generated monsters each time you open an already saved game. You get to fight a large variety of 
 monsters throughout the game. Most of the time when you kill a monster, they drop an item, and 
 this is also randomly generated.
  
  Items form an integral part of the game. You will have to use to use a lot of items through the 
 course of them game. They range from various potions to armor and weapons. The weapons and armor 
 are of several different types, each having its own set of attributes, like damage dealt, durability, 
 elemental damage, etc. Several items are magically imbued to grant the character enhancement in 
 stats or adding elemental damage to the weapon's attack. You can buy items from traders or pick 
 them up from monsters who drop them, when they are killed. You can sell off extra items or store 
 them in your stash in the center of town.
  
  There three levels of difficulty - Normal, Nightmare and Hell, each progressively tougher than 
 the previous. However you must finish the game at a certain level of difficulty to unlock the next 
 level. The experience rewarded for killing a monster are greater progressively through the difficulty 
 levels. but the number of times you can die in-game is reduced. Normally, if you die in-game you 
 will be spawned near your stash, but will lose a part of your money and experience.
  
  Graphics, however disappoint. The game uses a rather outdated graphic engine. This is a place Blizzard 
 could have put in some work. The game allows a low resolution of 640x480. The game's cut-scenes 
 form a bridge between the Acts and are well crafted
  
  The background score fits the bill, with its dark ,eerie-sounding music. The in-game sounds, are 
 quite well done too. No complaints here.
  
  As I have mentioned earlier repetitive combat and the graphics are a letdown. The games is too 
 linear, and it could have done with a few optional side-quests.
  
  FINAL VERDICT
  
  It may be old game, but it stands tall in the action RPG genre. The addictive combat more than 
 compensates for the poor graphics, though it may get monotonous at times. Surely a must-buy for 
 the RPG gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xialon
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II is the game that recreated the RPG industry.
  
  This game offers numerous hours of game play that hardly ever gets boring. Each mission takes you 
 to someplace extravagant, horrendous, and daunting. Game play mechanics though very simple gives 
 a deeper meaning to the entertainment.
  
  Before we go any further, let's start with the beginning. 
  
  Diablo II offers several varieties 
 of classes from which you can choose to amuse yourself with. Examples would be the necromancer, 
 Amazon woman, and barbarian. Each class contributes to a different format of playing. Therefore, 
 a player can assume that there is a good enough rationale to replay this game. Like in many RPGs 
 this game lets you customize your character which you can level up throughout the game. 
  
  Every map in this game has a massive map with great details to the environment. Creatures are various 
 and look remarkable. Each monster has its own aptitude, gruesomeness, and scheme.
  
  Diablo II presents a decent story which is quite extensive and takes you many places and produces 
 scores of challenges. Each new map has its own environmental features and assortment of inhabitants.
 
  
  However, Diablo II can become repetitious at times, and the story slows down a bit too. Some boss 
 fights and several mobbing creatures make it difficult to move forward in the game.
  
  I would recommend this game to any RPG fan looking for a game that will take several enjoyable 
 hours to complete.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyrael_Xylaekos
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  When I first played the game I didn't like it very much, i even got bored by it. Now I know better 
 because if you keep playing it you really get sucked in the game and it gives you a great feeling 
 with the killing and stuff, above that it also has a fine story and good graphics (for it's time) . 
 The different classes make online team play really fun and exciting and the 3 levels of difficulty 
 make the game very long-lasting! It exists like 8 years from now and still a lot of ppl are playing 
 it! That means it's great, I recommend it to all the people who like hack 'n slash games, and all 
 the fans of Diablo I of course.
  
  Gameplay: 9,5/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 10/10
  Online play: 10,5/10
  I suggest all who own it, play it again! And who doesn't own it, go get 
 it, it's worth it! See you all in Diablo II !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakutakamine
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I was riding my bike one night after playing allot of Diablo II, i got dark so i started riding 
 back, i saw some smoke and i got off my bike and ran toward it thinking id find allot of Demons 
 and zombies, the game was so immersive i lost myself in the world, so i tried to find a waygate...
 
  
  Diablo II has been out for a while now, there making a sequal and im writing a review, Diablo is 
 addicting, i mean really addicting, im going to saw more addicting than WoW. Can you believe it?
 
  
  Diablo 2 has very fuzzy somewhat blocky graphics, it seems Blizzard bought a graphics engine for 
 the original that was high end and very good but very expensive so they really wanted to get there 
 moneys worth out of it i. e. Starcraft.
  
  Diablo can be hard at times but its so addicting you get a power boost, it's probably harder than 
 we think it is, its just so addicting it's like you character always drinks V8 energy drinks (???) . 
 That way he (or she) is healthy but has wings (you dont get wings) (oh) .
  
  Diablo has alot of replay value, Randomly generated WORLD! Five classes (7 wit expan.) Three difficulty 
 settings, and even... MULTIPLAYER!!!!!!!!!
  
  Buy (D (I (A (B (L (O) C) H) E) S) T) NOW!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I'd give this game an 8 out of 10 but due to the fact that I died once and lost all of my equiped 
 items and all of my money, I regrettably have no choice other than to give Diablo 2 a 5/10. No 
 quick saves, just save and exit ,which can be a hassle if you are partying on battle. net. I had 
 alot of stuff on my level 11 barbarian recently and around 20000. Unfortunately, I lost ALL of 
 it when I died in a level called "The forgotten Tower". I actually like the demo of this game better 
 because lost items are easily replaceable and you find 5x the amount of money and rare items in 
 the actual game. Im so frustrated right now. I mean, two friggin hours down the drain just like 
 that! Thanks so much Blizzard North! Smiley frowns upon you  : (  : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( 
 : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : (
  
  sorry about that... just a frustrated noob rant. now for the honest review:
  
  Graphics: 8.5 
 for 2000 (9 for cinematics)
  Sound:9
  Story:10
  Gameplay:9
  Multiplayer:11.5
  
  Conclusion: Diablo 2 is a great sequel to the original, with improved gameplay and online capability 
 via battle. net. Great sound, great story, addicting, but the online co-op is where its really at. 
 Only bad thing is that its hard to keep a group online. 
  The refined version of this review concludes that Diablo 2 deserves an: 8.7/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilosophiCon
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  The good - Great gameplay, good graphics for when it was released, amazing story, great to play 
 with friends, very good cinematics, still very popular online play
  
  The Bad - The graphics are dated now, a little repetitive
  
  Diablo II is a very epic game 
 in the sense that, even though it was created eight years ago, it is still incredibly popular, 
 and that popularity is growing all the time. The online portion of this game is always filled with 
 players, and people don't seem to be getting bored of this game.
  
  In Diablo II, you choose your character in the beginning of the game (Note: If you create your 
 character in Single Player, you cannot use that character in Multiplayer, and vice-versa) , and 
 this has a great deal to do with the game. This also adds to the replay value of the game. Play 
 through once as one type of character, and again as another.
  
  The character you choose depends a lot on your fighting style.
  You can choose to either get 
 down and dirty, battling with your own two hands, or you can choose to use spells or back-from-the-dead 
 minions to help you thwart your foes.
  
  Playing this game online with a friend, or in the same room, is a spectacular experience.
  I 
 recommend using a third-party program such as Skype to have voice chat communication, because text 
 just isn't enough in urgent situations (GET OVER HERE! I NEED HELP, KILL HIM!!!) .
  
  Playing through this game from start to finish gives you a large sense of accomplishment, but the 
 game still isn't over.
  You can still continue to play with that character. You can help others online, by walking them 
 through the game, letting them pick up the loot and take place in the battles a bit to gain experience, 
 or you can just keep running around and killing demons and enemies for the hell of it.
  
  This game has high replay value, and you will never get bored of it. I have eight years of proof. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abedeuss
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II. Anyone there doesn't know that game? Impossible. Anyone didn't play it? A bit easier 
 to believe, although that person is MISSING A LOT.
  
  As for an Hack'n'Slash game, don't expect great plot. But it's Blizzard, and all it's games are 
 perfect in almost every way. Long story short, every sign tells that Diablo, defeated few years 
 has returned along with his brothers. Now a hero must restore the balance in the world of the Sanctuary.
 
  
  About the game:
  
  - Graphics. Not too great, even 8 years ago in 2000 they weren't too good. But does it matter? 
 With at least 30-40 projectiles, allies, enemies and everything else PCs would slow down, killing 
 the enjoyment. Monsters and effects, however, are great. Light radius builds the atmosphere very 
 suggestively, spells look spectacularly, so do weapons and armors.
  - Sound and sound effects: Awesome. Music can be listened alone all the time, never gets boring. 
 Every enemy type makes it's own sound, so do NPCs and player characters, not mentioning some harder 
 enemies (like the Countess or Andariel)
  - Gameplay: Whether you hack monsters with a big axe, smite then with thunders or burn/freeze using 
 spells, the enjoyment and fast paced action never stop. Fights are exciting, boss fights memorable. 
 Another thing that makes Diablo 2 such a great game is random loot. At least half the time in the 
 game will be spent on buying and trying to find equipment for your character. And guess what, it's 
 not boring, as the better stuff you find, they better your character gets. And there are gold, 
 green, unique, purple items... Possibilities are unlimited.
  
  Same thing goes for dungeons and maps - although on single player they are set at the time character 
 is created, on the Battle. net each game has different maps.
  
  And while I'm at it, Battle. net - 8 players beating the hell out of monsters or each other. 8 times 
 better than single-player. Also, game seems a bit easier and can be enjoyed by everyone - casuals 
 have normal ladder or non-ladder, hardcorers have hardcore ladder and non-ladder.
  
  Everyone should try this game. Otherwise, his life will be hollow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Diablo was a pretty good game. It wasn't anything particularly amazing, offering only one town 
 and one very long dungeon that seemed almost endless. But despite that, it was still rather fun. 
 Then comes along Diablo II, and it quickly becomes one of the greatest PC games ever made. The 
 reason being is that Diablo II is simply that vast an improvement over the original Diablo.
  
  The first thing most people will notice is that for it's time, Diablo II didn't look too swell. 
 The graphics are rather dated, and while beautiful artistry helps out, Diablo II is no technical 
 beast. If you had a somewhat up to date computer at the time, you could play Diablo II without 
 fully upgrading the system. But aside from those graphics, those sub par graphics, nothing quite 
 matches up to Diablo II.
  
  The game is bigger than the original, spanning four entire acts across huge cities and encampments 
 and the deadly areas around them. This, in contrast to Diablo's single town, makes for a far more 
 refreshing game. Rogue encampments, desert towns, a seaside jungle town, and inexplicably a few 
 people hanging out near the entrance to Hell all await you on your adventure, but this adventure 
 is different for everyone.
  
  In the original Diablo, character classes weren't as well defined as in Diablo II, but in the sequel 
 each of the five characters plays in a unique manner. Technically, all you're doing is clicking 
 the mouse button with your right hand and keeping your potions handy with your left hand with each 
 of the characters, but each of them brings unique skills which you can branch off on. The Barbarian 
 leaps and attacks, often with two weapons, the Sorceress stands back and fires magical attacks, 
 the Necromancer summons the dead to do his bidding, while the Amazon runs faster than all of the 
 characters, and attacks from both a distance and up close, and lastly the Paladin combines melee 
 attacks and magic. All of the characters can be explored in different ways with their extensive 
 skill sets and each character provides a unique playing experience from the other. With my personal 
 experience, I enjoyed playing with the Paladin and the Amazon more than the other three characters.
 
  
  While the gameplay remains largely unchanged, the outdoor exploration and various side-dungeons 
 with extra loot all help make Diablo II that much more addictive when compared to the original. 
 This time around, there are oftentimes six main quests to do on each Act in the game. They are 
 all loosely connected to help make a more cohesive story leading up to the end of an Act where 
 you'll be allowed to face off against some of the deadliest bosses ever, and then you'll be treated 
 to a well-made cinematic leading up to the next Act. All in all, having a story that matters makes 
 Diablo II stand out in a far bigger way than the original game's lackluster single-player game.
 
  
  Diablo II also brings to the fray a hefty multiplayer component with everyone running around looking 
 for loot and killing one another, oftentimes, the reward is an ear. Despite going through the 
 game with a bunch of friends, I didn't enjoy the game online as much as I did alone. Something 
 about just going and killing things without text popping up and people selling their loot on eBay 
 appealed to me quite a bit more. The game was still fun online, but solitary adventurers aren't 
 missing out; in fact, they can have just as much fun alone. Still, for the social butterflies in 
 everyone else, Diablo II still offers one of the best online experiences if you're into this kind 
 of game.
  
  Sound effects in Diablo II are surprisingly better than the graphics. Once you play the game for 
 a while, you'll be listening closely. Not to the stellar soundtrack. Not to the disgusting sounds 
 of the demons. But instead, you'll be listening for one key sound, every time you open a chest, 
 you'll have your ears perked up, listening for a creak to signal whether the chest, or even the 
 area is booby-trapped.
  
  Aside from the overall game being better, other little things have been done to improve the game 
 from the original as well; one key standout element is gold. No longer is gold placed in the inventory 
 taking up space, now it's merely set aside as gold, so you can rack up and save as much as you 
 want of it.
  
  There aren't many games that try to go head to head with Diablo II and that's for a good reason, 
 it may very well be the greatest PC game ever made, and if not that, then it's at least one of 
 the greatest ever made. Addicting gameplay isn't enough to make a standout game, but when everything 
 is improved and added to that addicting gameplay, you're given a genuinely amazing game. Diablo 
 II is that good, and it still holds up today as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furrylilmonster
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game i have ever played in my entire life. It has an amazingly captavating story 
 line. Stunning Cinematics. And on top of all this, fun and challenging game play. I have played 
 this game for countless hours and it still entertains me.
  
  Audio wise Blizzard are right on the money. The each areas backing track directly reflects the 
 aesthetics and mood of the scene. Creating this beautiful hamany between audio and visual. The 
 rich sounds of the diablo 2 add greatly to the overall emotion of the game. 
  
  Favourite sounds, the pigme guys "Cut derr legs off" and "giblle gibdle gebbo ggggg" the sound 
 they make when they're running- Funny.
  
  Diablo 2 is a 10/10 Simply Awesome.
  
  In fact im going to play it when i get home. Cant wait for Diablo 3, i have high expectations, 
 lets hope the game lives up to them.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vijaynine
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I dont know why this legendary game was rated 8.5 or so but i assure everyone who are great story 
 lovers will love this for sure.
  
  Diablo II is a PC role-playing game which as a genre differ slightly from the console based roleplayers 
 in that there are no defined characters and the plot is a loose storyline around which you build 
 up a character by killing lots and lots of enemies. It has an online element but doesn't quite 
 fit the profile of a Massively Multiplayer Online RPG such as Ultima or Everquest as in essence 
 it's a lot more basic, offering little over constant fighting and some trading online. You are 
 given a choice of five character types who you will then take through the game levelling up and 
 building skills.
  
  You can choose between Barbarian, Paladin, Sorceress, Amazon and Necromancer, each of which has 
 their own particular strengths and weaknesses. The Barbarian can equip hugely powerful weapons, 
 the Paladin can wear strong defensive gear, the Amazon has excellent ranged attacks, the Sorceress 
 is mistress of offensive magic and the Necromancer can command hordes of undead to go into battle 
 for him. Once you have chosen a character you then battle your way through four "Acts" each taking 
 place in a different environment. You are loosely following a plot which sees you taking on the 
 forces of darkness which survived the first game and have corrupted the world further. Each Act 
 ends with a fierce Boss fight and the game culminates with you taking on Diablo himself at the 
 end of Act 4. 
  
  FINALLY ##
  
  The story with the darkest theme , great graphics, unbelievable creepy sounds , best of the best 
 gameplay and what the hell are you expecting from a game which was 8 years back . Even now after 
 completing the game so many time i use to play it regularly. i played it for about 9 months on batlle. net. The 
 with the most replaybility till date.
  
  This was one of revolutinary role playing game ever if you play this for a day or more it just 
 simply sucks you into its virtual world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimaSlayer94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game back in 2001, along with the expansion. Want to know how great it is? Lets just 
 say I'm still playing it to do this say, 6/25/08. The community is still HUGE (I'd say 1,000,000 
 still playing battle. net after 8 years... only starcraft can even come close) . Chances are you 
 missed this game. Well let me break it down for you. (keep in mind im rating graphics/sound for 
 back when it came out, to be fair) .
  
  Presentation: The navigation of the menus, the AI, the interface are all wonderful. The manual 
 and case are also nice, though they won't really matter. Story isn't anything special, but it's 
 good enough to get you to care instead of skipping through everything. 9/10
  
  Graphics: Don't decide to not pick up this game because of the graphics, because graphics dont 
 make the game. I will have to rate it based on when it came out so I do it justice. Back when it 
 came out in 2000, the graphics were sub-par. The effects were great, but the models and enviroment 
 were nothing special. No new engine has been implemented I'm afraid, but it's good enough for you 
 to not look in disgust (unless all you care about is graphics) . You'll be too busy killing to notice. 
 8/10
  
  Sound: Meh. The sound effects are nothing special, and the music doesen't really draw you in, though 
 it is still good enough. The voice acting, however, is solid. 8.5/10
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game shines. The class system, stat system, skill trees, combat, vendors, 
 item distribution system, and battle. net are so top-notch they beat ANY action-rpg to this day. 
 It is the most addictive game you will ever play, and will always have fun. Battle. net is only 
 recommended once you have finished the single-player, and have a good level and experience. It 
 is often said to be repetitive, and like all other action-rpgs, it sure is. But when doing the 
 same stuff over and over and over is this much fun, who cares? 10/10
  
  Lasting Appeal: Highly addictive is an understatement at best. What other game besides starcraft, 
 which is made by the same developer, has been keeping an enormous community for over 8 years? It 
 is extremely addictive, you are always pushing to kill that boss just one more time so you can 
 get those gloves that give you a +1 str boost. Battle. net makes the game much like an MMO, therefore 
 giving it infinitely more value. Seriously, you just won't stop playing this until Diablo III comes 
 out. 10/10
  
  Overall, if you haven't played this game, pick up the battle chest for just $40, which includes 
 this game, its expansion, and strategy guides for both. It will last you very, very long. I've 
 put hundreds of hours into this. You will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your the hero from Diablo 1 back again to defeat Diablo.
  
  Missions: All are MMORPG style quests.. save this kill that retrive this. Not much variety but the 
 quests are good.
  
  Controls: They are kinda hard to get used to bet get easyer as you go. Pretty good controls.
 
  
  Features: Awesome RPG, Pretty Long Game, Lots of items and levels
  
  AI: Seems ok. The AI attack you in large groups.
  
  Graphics: Great for its time. Quite detailed 
 enviroments and the fire looks great to.
  
  Audio: Good. The voice acting on the NPC's is kinda cheezy but its fine. Battle sounds are great. 
 Ambiet sounds creep you out a little
  Multiplayer: None
  
  Requirements: Time to play this epic
  
  The Good: Gameplay graphics and audio
  
  The Bad: 
 Hard Controls
  
  The Ugly: You
  
  Replay Ability: High
  
  The Bottom Line: Another great game from Blizzard and a RPG that has defined todays standards. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoopyPoopy4
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Review of Diablo 2.
  
  
  PROS: Highly addicting and fun, Huge enemy variety, challenging boss fights, great graphics, hundreds 
 of types of armor and weapons, very long story, Dozens of hours of gameplay, awesome multiplayer, 
 simple, fun hack n' slash gameplay, 5 different characters with individual and special unique skills, 
 when your in a dungeon you feel all tense and as if you were there, Chilling theme and scary when 
 you play at night.
  
  
  CONS: Can occasionally be frustratingly hard, if you exit in the middle of a quest you will start 
 all over again from the beginning, finding the right stairwell in a dungeon can be slightly annoying.
 
  
  Basically, if you can look past a few small problems of this great game, you will find diablo 2 
 to be one of the most immersive action RPG'S out there. Surprisingly, this game can be awefully 
 realistic and make you feel like your really in a dungeon with hundreds of demons ready to eat 
 you. It can also be pretty damn creepy. One time i was playing at night with my parents gone and 
 the dungeon exploration mission slightly creeped me out. Monsters pop out of no where and can look 
 terrifyingly hideous. So to sum it all up, if you like creepy hack n slash games, BUY THIS GAME. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarwan_dude
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  The intro to Diablo 2 shows us the hero from the original game trying to contain an increasingly 
 powerful soul - that of Diablo. Sometimes it is too much and his inner demons burst forth, rending 
 flesh from bone. Your task is a little vague at first, but after choosing one of five characters, 
 then trekking around completing superficial tasks, the bigger picture comes into focus.
  
  Of the five characters on offer, two are core magic users - the Necromancer and Sorcerer. These 
 two are physically weak but have the most powerful and varied spells. The Amazon and Paladin have 
 a few useful spells plus a number of weapon-based enhancements. Lastly, the Barbarian is simply 
 a huge juggernaut, whose sole purpose is to smash skulls, break bones and sometimes save poor little 
 kitty-cats that got stuck up in trees. Then pulverise them. Heheh...
  
  Choosing a character in Diablo 2 isn't as easy as cheating your tax returns. In true Blizzard style 
 the game has been balanced so impeccably that at the same level, pretty much all characters are 
 equal. This is a good thing, no doubt about that, which makes any choice a good one. No one loses 
 out - wayhey!
  
  Game structure follows a fairly linear pattern, but so expansive and so enthralling is Diablo 2 
 that it really doesn't matter. Instead of running underground into crypts and such, as was the 
 case in the original, Diablo 2 makes use of huge wilderness areas, which start as soon as you leave 
 the safety of the townships. From here, you will cut zombies asunder, tear shamans' arms from their 
 sockets and generally rack up some serious experience points. In these wilderness areas there are 
 numerous paths you can take. Some lead to the taxidermist, others to places of evil. These include 
 underground crypts (so I lied) , overrun palaces and even worm holes replete with sticky mucus. 
 Lovely.
  
  You will acquire quests from bawdy NPCs (non-player characters) . These usually involve fighting 
 a huge wart-covered end-boss and then claiming an awesome weapon or item. You also gain experience 
 points and, with these, come level-ups. Here you can increase your stats and also add spells or 
 special abilities. Apart from gradually turning your character into a multi-skilled spectre of 
 death, increasing levels will also give your character access to better equipment.
  
  Other extras that make Diablo 2 more enjoyable are new commands, such as run. Simple but deceptively 
 useful, this feature also brings into play a new stamina gauge. If you hold down the ALT key, all 
 items on screen will light up, making those tiny rings easy to locate. Another cool extra is the 
 addition of precious stones. These jewels, such as rubies, sapphires and diamonds, can be inserted 
 into socketed weapons, shields and helmets, adding fire damage, extra attack efficiency and even 
 certain resistances.
  
  Gameplay hasn't changed dramatically from the original game, neither have the visuals, but it doesn't 
 seem to matter, as this game has enough charm to keep players tonking all night long. The extra 
 characters and more fluent gameplay, plus the huge amount of enemies, add to this game's addictiveness 
 - it's dangerously playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sauron901
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is a sequel to the Hit rpg game Diablo. Diablo 2 is a action rpg, which consists of 5 
 classes, a great story, original monsters, and a truly wonderful multiplayer.
  
  You start off in a town where you get told that Diablo is back and that he has unleashed more evil 
 then ever before. The story is heart gripping and the combat is simple but you never get bored 
 of it. The settings of the game is very cool, for example one town is near forests and another 
 is in the desert. So suddenly your killing trolls then you go to the desert and your killing maggots 
 
  
  The graphics even though it was made in 200 are still very well done, you will still find amazing 
 visuals.
  
  The multiplayer is the real test. IT is just awesome, if your going to play with your friends you 
 will fun even if you play with people you dont know you will still love it.
  
  Altogether the game is a magnificent piece of art. It is for anyone nomatter if you like rpgs or 
 not. You will be addicted to this game for a long time, which is another good thing. You could 
 be playing this for 2 months or for 2 years. You will love Diablo 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleStilkey
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  This game is the best in the series. You can do much more then the original. You can RUN, change 
 the way you attack and much more. This game is fun to play, the battles get intense not to say 
 but the graphics are great. It isn't always a dungeon you are in, sometimes you'll be outside fighting 
 or in a castle. You are rarely in a dungeon at all. The boss battles are fun, you actually have 
 to think what to do to defeat this monster or should I cheat by going online and getting a bunch 
 of weapons from people. The single player is great, but online is even better. You can play along 
 side with your friends or someone across the world. They even have people online that put in cheats 
 so people drop strong weapons and stuff but if you don't cheat you will have fun commanding your 
 friends on were to go. Overall this is a game everyone should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  In my honest opinion most of the games made today are crap.
  Seriously how many games today would you call really awesome.
  Oblivion is a good example it 
 is an ok game but compared to Morrowind it is an utter failure. Gamespot's reviews for these two 
 games are backwards.
  Morrowind has got to be one of the greatest games ever made.
  Diablo II fits into that category as well. I personally like the expansion but it did little to 
 enhance Diablo II's fun. Diablo II stands on it's own very well.
  There is no way I can say how much I played this game. It was more of an obsession than a game. 
 I call Diablo II Crack in a box.
  It really is that addictive.
  Diablo II Spawned a slew of wanna be rip offs. 
  None of them hit the mark. Diablo II is still 
 to this day the ultimate Hack and Slash RPG. It is an awesome Lan game as well despite some minor 
 glitches. This game is some of the most fun I have ever had.
  As I said before. If only they made games like this today.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dshaw62197
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  After playing the original Diablo game, I couldn't imagine an action-RPG that could top that experience. 
 However, with the arrival of Diablo II, I realized that such a feat was indeed possible. Blizzard 
 delivered an incredible game that offered so much replay value, as well as the always-important 
 "just a few more minutes of playing" feeling, that it (almost) eclipses its predecessor. While 
 there were a few things to pick apart -- the graphics weren't all that much different from the 
 first game (although I always liked the Diablo-style perspective in RPG games, so that was not 
 an issue for me) , and the save system could at times be frustrating (but again, it seemed to make 
 the game more challenging, and not impossibly so) -- but, by a large margin, the pros far outweigh 
 the cons on this game. Nearly eight years after it came out, I still find myself wanting to play 
 this game again, and when I do, the experience is just as fresh and rewarding as it was when I 
 first played it. For anyone even interested in trying Diablo II, I can only say go for it: this 
 game is a masterpiece, and any PC gamer worth their salt must try it at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ponchados
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  A pesar de que ya tiene sus aitos este juego aun lo sigo jugando, hasta mi hijo tambien ya tiene 
 sus personajes y en ocasiones conectamos las dos computadoras para hecharnos una partida ....
 
  
  Desde que lo compre este juego hasta el dia de hoy no se cuantas veces lo he terminado y vuelto 
 a jugar y cada vez recibes cosas diferentes los tipos de mezclas que puedes hacer con el cubo horadrico, 
 los objetos especiales, etc. etc.
  
  Un jugo bastante recomendable por eso le he dado una calificacion de 10, aun no se sabe si es que 
 van a sacar una nueva version de diablo, se han leido rumores de que esta en proceso, pero ya hace 
 algun tiempo que se viene leyendo lo mismo.
  sin novedad alguna hasta el dia de hoy.
  Por cierto si quieren comenzar a jugar este grandioso juego, no lo hagan ya con sus personajes 
 modificados por que esto le quita demasiado interes al juego, comienzenlo empezando desde cero, 
 asi es como les va a encantar mucho mas... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  This was the first fantasy game (aside from Legend of Zelda) that I really really really enjoyed. 
 Typically I'm not a fan of the whole fantasy genre and even had my doubts about this game until 
 my roommate kept hounding me to play it. So I downloaded the demo (from Gamespot :P ) and was immediately 
 sucked in. I had never played a game before where you gained experience and increased in level 
 and strength and it was something that I just found myself really enjoying. After I few hours of 
 playing the demo over and over and over again, I was finally able to pry myself away and actually 
 go get the entire game. 
  
  There really isn't much I can say about this game that the whole world doesn't already know. Outstanding 
 graphics, top quality sound, and of course a storyline that's so gripping you find yourself hanging 
 on very word of every NPC for every quest. The voice acting was also amazing, which to this very 
 day is a rariety and something that Blizzard has always done quite well. 
  
  I can't wait to see what the future has in store for this series but I do know that it will be 
 worth wait. So if you are reading this and haven't played diablo ii yet, for the love of God man 
 get out from under your rock and play this game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overkill138
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2. So much wasted time on it. Jesus i looked at my computer playing time for this.....308 
 hours.... thats almost the equivalent of me staying up playing this 2 weeks straight. I got this 
 game when i first got my computer up and running. I remember being noobish and buying a low-end 
 game because of me not knowing my PC's capabilities. when i first popped it in and started playing 
 it... well... i couldent stop. This was my first pc games. That night i must've played D2 for 7+ 
 Hours. Just the thought of running around with ACTUAL people from ACTUAL places just excited me. 
 before this i was a ps2 owner and never had the time to try out the Online feature. 
  
  D2. I remember me first "Cow World" and how amusingly insane it was
  I remember Watching the 
 almighty "Diablo" tumble down after one hit of my mighty barbarian friend Everybody [HBG] haha had 
 some good times. 
  however i am so glad that fateful day at Wal-Mart that i chose Diablo 2. without it i might've 
 never got into computer games.
  
  They don't make games like this anymore. im rating this a 10/10 because the value it has to me. 
 and the experience it gave to me as a 10 year old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is an excellent upgrade from its predecessor, keeping you addicted though new items, great 
 character development, and unique levels from start to finish.
  As you play the game you can upgrade your character however you want, and with 3 main skill trees 
 for each of the classes you can find many useful combinations for each character that you play 
 with. You will also come across many useful items with the ability to upgrade some by adding certain 
 stones (rubies, diamonds, ect.) to socketed items granting a great upgrade in power for the player.
 
  The more people you get playing this game the better is it, combining forces makes for even more 
 interesting gameplay with multiplayer then with the already great single player. Unfortunately 
 the vast majority of people that play this game cheat to get the greatest weapons and armor.
  The only other real downfall to the game is that each of that classes are not as balanced as they 
 should be. Perhaps it is just the playtype but I was unable to beat diablo with a summoning necro 
 when I could do it with a dual wielding barbarian. The classes with less armor needs there damage 
 beefed up and perhaps some better abilities to make it a bit easier.
  If you like simple hack and slash gameplay this is certainly the game for you. 9.0 all the way, 
 certainly one of the best in its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falcon159
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the most fun and addictive roleplayers to ever hit the market. The game 
 is nearly 6 years old and it is still going strong even with the massive fanbase of World of Warcraft. 
 Ironically, both titles come from the big Blizzard. 
  
  At this point the main comparison has to be with World of Warcraft, simply because it is so massive 
 and widely played. The truth is, many of the qualitys that keep people coming back to WoW are taken 
 directly out of the Diablo realm. The quests, infinitely customizeable items, spells, and just 
 the extensive character development in general all started with Diablo. Take Warcraft III and smash 
 it together with Diablo 2 and you get WoW -- simple as that.
  
  Right now you can still get a Diablo 2 Battlechest in most places, and for a very inexpensive price. 
 I would suggest checking it out if WoW doesn't appeal to you. Whether it be the long travel distances, 
 cheesy graphics (c'mon Blizzard what is with the cartoon graphics of the latest Warcraft games?) , 
 or anything else that the general public seems to overlook. I still play Diablo 2 in favor of Wow. 
 The graphics are quite good for such an old game, the action is non-stop and accessable at will, 
 and Blizzard does not fail to keep the game alive online with patches and hidden content that add 
 quests even the most advanced players have trouble completing. 
  
  Overall, Diablo 2 will appeal to the people that want an extensive RPG but don't want to devote 
 the greater portion of their life (or cash) to a game. It is easy to do a single quest in an hour, 
 walk away and come back at a later time. Think of it as a more arcade version of WoW, and that's 
 not a bad thing, yes it's old, but its still kicking. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrevisJohnson
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I believe diablo 2 was one of my favorite games of all times. Diablo 2 may not have the best graphics 
 of all time but the player vs player, player vs monster made it so much more intense. World of 
 Warcraft took over this game which cancled the Diablo 3 that was to be made. Diablo 2 has started 
 to go down hill as i still play it. The Computers that run the servers are much much slower, then 
 should be. They need to update them bad boys. But back to my point, I think that these blizzard 
 makes excellent games. Diablo is great for first beginners, who want to play lots of blizzard games. 
 WOW is great for those who have played, but Diablo 2 Or Warcraft 3 are great learning spots to 
 start for WOW. I personally do not like WOW that much and believe that 10 or what ever it is 15 
 dollars a month is a rip. All i want to do is play a game that i can buy and play. Well thanks 
 for listening to me nag on. 
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gispotcho
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! 
 BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! 
 BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! 
 BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! 
 BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! 
 BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! 
 BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! 
 BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! 
 BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! 
 BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! 
 BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! BEST GAME EVER! 
 did i mention its a lot of fun ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinkyfish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  This is a classic game - every PC (and Mac :D ) owner should have it!
  
  The excellent and well balanced choice of characters with seemingly endless choices for skill development 
 provides you with so many opportunities to play the game exactly how you want to play, using the 
 tactics that suit you. I've played through as all the characters and the game never seems to be 
 the same twice.
  
  The storyline is brilliant, really immersive. All the characters you meet are interesting to talk 
 to, provide relevant information and feature excellent voice acting. They all seem really realistic 
 which helps to make you get really involved in the story.
  
  Each new area has different monsters to fight and depending on where you are their tactics change, 
 but it never seems to be too hard or too easy to beat them, Blizzard seem to have set the difficulty 
 perfectly.
  
  There are also hundreds of different items and pieces of equipment to collect and what you find 
 in each dungeon varies with every visit so you've always got a reason to go back.
  
  Need I say anymore? ^_^
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ... So why haven't you bought it yet? :-P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBird228
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  Complex weapons, many character classes, enticing skills, f*cking amazing multiplayer. These are 
 just some of the things that make Diablo II so great. As with the original Diablo, the many characters 
 and skills for each leave so many ways of play-style, that each character could be played at least 
 three times, each time finding something new. The weapons now have many different pre- and suffixes, 
 which allows for literealy thounsands of different weapons combos. 
  Now we get to the multiplayer, the multiplayer is so well integrated that it achieves and epic 
 level of greatness. This was perhaps the breakthough of the Blizzard multiplayer. It was both stable 
 and easy to use, without sacrificing any of its in depth functions. 
  
  This is a great game, and I wish there was a Diablo III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  And you thought the first one was great. 5 classes or races or whatever you want to call them. 
 I think there are 7, or is that in lord of destruction. IDK. but that's still alot. Same great 
 gameplay like in the original. Except it's a longer game. I really don't know how to start describing 
 this game for newcomers. It's easier if you have already played the first. Well of course it's 
 a action RPG which mean its already going to be good, just like elder scrolls oblivion. but like 
 i said in my review for diablo1, if you dont mind dated graphics ( which most of you DO ) Then this 
 game is absolutely flawless in every way. From its high addictiveness rate to its MASSIVE multiplayer 
 newtwork. Too bad part 3 hasnt come out yet or else i wouldnt be writing this review. Instead id 
 be playing part 3 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pablo_SL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  While Diablo practically invented the genre of rol action games, this one has redefined and perfectioned 
 the genre even more. If you look at all the RPG games of today you'll see that they all have thinks 
 of this game while some of them are different they always have something from Diablo and Diablo 
 II on them. Diablo series are easily the best of the RPG genre. Music on both of them is just awsome 
 it is like a movies music similar to the lord of the rings music or those kind of movies. Gameplay 
 it still great and graphs have been upgraded of course from the first part. Story is amazing everything 
 is based on true religious miths, for example mefisto, baal and diablo mean all the same (the demon) 
 and Npc talks are great and they get you in to the story perfectly. Nothing else to say I leave 
 full reviews to others, just that this game rocks and it has become a true classic of pc gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspmax022
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  ok lets just say this now-this game is really good. if you dont have it go buy it. its only $20 and 
 its totally worth it. the game is very addictive and youll probley get used to it in 1-2 days. there 
 are 5 classes in the game: the barbarian, witch is a heavy melee player, paladin, a holy party leader, sorceress 
 and magic woman (suprise) , amazon, a mercenarie with a bow javalin or spear, necromancer, a dead summoning 
 dark curse using mage. the games is in 4 acts. all are very fun and long. and the replay value is 
 VERY HIGH. you can play for about 7-8 years like me, and STILL not get bored. get the game youll love 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z4kn4f31n
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  As i said in the Deck, d2 defined RPG gaming. I've never seen a game with such replayability! Tons 
 of different Items, Great looking bosses that really feel like bosses, high level cap, great character 
 customization features so that there won't really be same looking characters, even armor models 
 appear on the player (great for the time it was released) . PERFECT spell effects, i still think 
 they are better than many of the spell effects of the newest games. (Frozen orb looked so SWEET 
 :) )
  
  Overall:
  +Randomized Universe
  +Infinite Loot tables that make you want to kill the same boss again and again
  +Fun gameplay
 
  +The Infinite Replayability term was defined by this game
  
  -Graphics feel dated
  -No actual organised PVP
  -The last patches somewhat made some classes more worth playing than 
 other ones 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afpabon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  I must say I loved the original Diablo. It was a completely new genre, defined by the best game 
 company out there, so what was not to like? However, it's difficult (and maybe a little bit hypocrite) 
 to say Diablo was a flawless game. One of the things that bothered me a little bit about Diablo 
 is that it felt a little bit like those old arcade games, where the levels seem to repeat themselves 
 over and over again, only with tougher and more guys. Those were the Diablo levels: the same dungeon 
 using the same sprites, level after level, plagued with tougher guys each time. It was a lot of 
 fun, but it was repetitive as the hell it evoked, as well.
  
  The original Diablo also had three competely interchangeable classes, so it didn't really matter 
 who you chose, because as the game progressed you could end up with a character worthy of any other 
 class. Not to talk about the ending (one of the few motivations one had to replay the game with 
 a different class) , that was exactly the same in all three cases.
  
  Meet Diablo II. The game that actually redefined how an action RPG is supposed to be. Gone are 
 the repetitive levels throughout the game, relaced with short series of 3-5 levels using the same 
 sprites, and then changing them. Additionally, it had 4 acts (each one almost as long as the original 
 Diablo) , each of them with a completely different feeling.
  
  But where Diablo II shines the most is in it's five completely different, yet clearly enjoyable 
 classes. All of the classes had completely independent abbility trees, and each and every single 
 one of the 50 or so abbilities per class was good to use. The game was so addictive you just couldn't 
 wait to see the effect of a new abbility, or the effect of an old one used in a completely different 
 way.
  
  So if you never played it, forget about Titan Quest and Dungeon Siege. This is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidney2k1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  The Diablo-Diablo II relationship could be likened to the ''Alien''-''Aliens'' movies. Diablo II, 
 while sacrificng many of the downright spooky qualities of the original (i. e. the music is less 
 intense, the dark Gothic atmosphere is toned down, etc.) , gains out-and-out action and speed. The 
 first ''Alien'' movie was dark and suspenseful; the second was more of an action movie. In the 
 same way, Diablo II is an action RPG. People buying the game should bear this in mind.
  
  The most significant change in Diablo II (which could be called ''Diablo 1.5'') is length. Wading 
 through the labyrinthian jungles of Act III or crossing vast desert wastelands, the epic experience 
 triumphs over the claustrophobia of the first game. There is more of everything: more landscapes 
 (the original Diablo had one town and four dungeon tilesets - DII has four towns and around four 
 major tilesets for each) , more enemies, more weapons, more items, and more classes. This is a more-of-the-same 
 sequel.
  
  Not to say the new stuff isn't good, however. Polearms, spears, numerous throwing weapons, crossbows, 
 and even explosive potions join the humdrum swords, shields, and bows. The quests, while nonrandom, 
 are sometimes nonlinear as well (especially in multiplayer) . New item types and enchantments abound. 
 But if you were looking for some core change in Diablo's hack-and-slash gameplay, you'd better 
 look someplace else.
  
  In DII you can play as five classes: the Amazon (a Rogue who can also employ mean-looking spears 
 and javelins) , the Barbarian (a Warrior with special combat skills and masteries) , the Necromancer 
 (the coolest new class - a summoner who uses golems and resurrected monsters to tank for him) , 
 the Paladin (a magic-user/warrior hybrid) , and the Sorceress (just like D1's Sorcerer) . They are 
 all fun to play, and are balanced fairly well. There are some totally useless skills in the game, 
 though.
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  
  Blizzard's never been known for graphical prowess. While defintiely not hideous, DII is not a looker, 
 either. While the parallax effect is somewhat effective, the characters themselves are pixelated 
 beyond belief (though they are far more customizable than Diablo) . Monsters are far less ''3D'' 
 then they were in D1. Act 1 looks the worst, while the later Acts are adequate. The backgrounds 
 look fine, though, since they are pre-rendered. At least the cinematics are jaw-dropping...
  
  Audio - 9/10
  
  Combat sounds much more convinving. 3D sound is used well; creatures grunt 
 and breathe offscreen. The music is a mixed bag - many tracks are forgettable, while some (the 
 dreamy Arcane Santuary) are nearly as good as Diablo. Never fear, since nearly ALL of the original 
 Diablo's music tracks appear in some form or another (cheap trick, Blizzard) . Nearly everything 
 has a unique sound - the swing of a bardiche, for example, sounds like a helicopter blade (full 
 and meaty) . Gory and gross sounds are there, but most of the sound is realistic.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  The new skill tree is great, and adds incredible replayability. The character 
 classes are all very enjoyable, with room to develop two or even three characters with differing 
 proficiency. Gone are the spell books and elixirs of D1, so characters are forced to think of how 
 they build their characters. Running is a great improvement, and the game feels more natural. Unfortunately, 
 it IS all hack-and-slash, and Act III dragged on with endless waves of annoying Fetish. Also of 
 note is the save system - only the character and shape of the gameworld is saved in single-player, 
 so all the monsters respawn upon re-entering the game. This is a double-edged sword, sacrificing 
 the feel of D1's  since you have to battle the same monsters over 
 until you get to a waypoint which will save that location. All in all, it's refined Diablo.
  
  Battle. net/Multiplayer - 5-10/10
  
  This one's hard to grade. In the morning and on off-peak 
 hours, lag is very good (better than Diablo, in fact) . The servers are fairly secure, so no more 
 duping or hacking. PKers are no longer the omnipotent threats they used to be, and are easily avoided 
 if one is squeamish. Unfortunately, at night and on weekends, the Battle. net Realms (protected 
 servers which store your characters) are often laggy, with pings into the 1000s. Thankfully, Blizzard 
 is adding bandwidth, and the latest patch, 1.03, has improved things considerably. When it's bad, 
 though, it's BAD.
  
  OVERALL 9/10
  
  Though not perfect, DII is destined to become a classic, since it's already sold more than a million 
 copies. Battle. net seems to get better every week, and the single player game, though sometimes 
 frustrating, lets you build your character from Act I Normal difficulty all the way to Act IV Hell 
 Difficulty. The graphics are so-so, but, in almost every other way, this game rocks. Even in 2007, 
 Diabo 2 remains king of the Dungeon Crawlers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Horde
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is great. Compared to Diablo, I love this game.
  
  From the early 3 classes you could choose from, you now have a variety on about 5 classes; The 
 Barbarian, the Paladin, the Sorceress, the Necromancer and the Amazon. The Barbarian is a hack'n'slash, 
 Give me that pork , maul-wielding hunk'o'muscle that smashses everything in its way. No really, 
 he does.
  The Paladin is also a melee character, but he has a few more tricks up his sleeve, trading some 
 of his strength for magic powers.
  The Sorceress is a powerful magician, using spells from the elements such a Frost, Fire and Lightning.
 
  The Necromancer is also a spellcaster, but he summons forth demonic beasts and uses the dead to 
 favor him.
  The Amazon is a ranged user. She throws stuff. Hard.
  
  The graphics of this game is nothing compared to the games of today, but you know what, I dosen't 
 really matter. It kinda fits with this old graphic, its supposed to be that way. It is a little 
 boring with the same skin for some same pieces of armor, but at least its enough to show that you're 
 growing in power.
  
  Diablo II is a masterpiece, and today can still be played for the full enjoyment, and the last 
 time I checked, there are still some playing it online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahoganyelf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game.
  Clear Interface, suitable and comfortable item distribution method.
  Good graphics, but not all, because it has a low resolution and cannot be changed.
  Excellent 
 sound, music and speech.
  This sequel is so great, the history has been made very good, and has a very clear dialogs and 
 context.
  It has 5 character classes, each one with diferent skills, each class has also different kind of 
 unique class weapons and armor.
  This game is very adictive and more if you experience the battle. net gameplay.
  I have killed 
 thousands of foes on this game and each time the game envolves you more inside, moving you deeep, 
 and deep, and more deep inside it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 6, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Diablo II is another great game made by Blizzard. Diablo's back, and you have to defeat him again. 
 There are a lot of improved features in the game and hours of fun. This is a spoiler-free review 
 so anyone who hasn't even heard of this game can read this.
  
  THE GOOD
  Offers Single-Player, Battle. Net and LAN, A lot of hours to put in.
  
  THE BAD
  Single-Player 
 and Battle. Net characters can't be shared, LAN takes ages to set up even at an Internet Cafe.
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics aren't really the best. They're not too bad for a 2000 game but they still feel kind 
 of dated and not the best Blizzard has done.
  
  Sound
  It ain't the best music i've heard but it is still acceptable. It suits the game too. Some of the 
 music is very dark which I like and it makes the game feel dark..... especially when playing the 
 game at night.
  
  Gameplay
  In the original Diablo II, you can pick one out of five races at the start. There's the Barbarian, 
 who's good with close-range melee; the Sorceress, who's good with Magic; the Necromancer who summons 
 beasts and uses them as allies; the Amazon, who's good with long-range melee; and the Paladin, 
 who uses Holy abilities. My favourites are the Barbarian and the Necromancer. When playing Diablo 
 II, you'll be running around, battling enemies and doing quests on an isometric map like in the 
 first Diablo and many typical RTS games. The special thing about this is it isn't an RTS. It's 
 more of a Hack-n-Slash RPG. You'll be asked to do quests in the main story. The first few are fairly 
 easy but get harder as they go. There are Acts in the game, which contain a number of quest. Treat 
 them as they are like Chapters in the game. Battle. Net in Diablo II is great! It's just like Single-Player 
 except it's online. You can create a game or join someone else's. They can even help you with your 
 quests which is really handy for beginners. The only problem with Battle. Net however is that you 
 can't transfer your Single-Player character onto Battle. Net. That means you have to start again 
 with a new character. That isn't too bad, but it does mean going through all the levelling up trouble. 
 Like any typical RPG, you level up. And you can choose what stats to improve when levelling up. 
 I've always liked this idea.
  
  Character Design
  One thing I don't like about Diablo's character design is that you can't change the looks or the 
 gender of the character. So if you're a Paladin for example, you can't change to female. And you 
 can't change the looks of the character other than armour. So in Battle. Net, everyone will end 
 up looking the same.
  
  Overall
  Diablo II is a great PC game that will keep you glued for hours. It should be bought by any Blizzard 
 fan, even if you're hooked on WoW.
  9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nagalux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up at a super-market for a cheap price some time ago.
  I really liked the first game so i thought why not. So i installed it on my pc and started playing. 
 At the beginning the first thing i noticed was how bad the graphic was. But when i had played a 
 while i didn't eaven think about it.
  The game is basicly just about killing different monsters on different maps with different kind 
 of attacks. That may not sound like alot of fun but it is the great amount of ways to kill the 
 monsters that is interesting. You can choose between five different classes. You can play as a 
 Barbarian, Paladin, Sorceress, Amazon or my personal favorite the Necromancer. In the first game 
 the biggest differense between the classes were the beginning stats. You could train a fighter 
 to use magic and a sorcerer to use mele weapons. In Diablo 2 every class has an own unique skilltree 
 where the player can choose how to spend the skill points they get from leveling. Most of the skills 
 are quite interesting and fun to use. If you play as a Barbarian you get powerfull mele skills 
 like bash and leap attack and as the necromancer you can learn to resurect the dead to fight for 
 you.
  
  The game is not entirely about bashing monsters. There are actually some quests involved. Some 
 are interesting but most is about colecting different items and then combinding them in the end 
 of the act (The game is divided into 4 acts) . In Diablo 1 the quests were randomly selected so 
 that you didn't play the same quests over and over again. In Diablo 2 this is not the case. You 
 play through the same quests every time you play and that eventually gets boring if you start alot 
 of new characters.
  
  The multiplayer feels like a big part of the game. I have tryed playing online but it didn't feel 
 very special. I can imagine that it can be great fun if you play with someone you know but playing 
 with complete strangers does not apeal to me. Like if you want to gain a few levels just by killing 
 some monsters you can find that someone already killed all the monsters or already did the quest 
 that you were trying to complete
  
  I have done some complaining about this game but it's not bad really. It's a fun and adictive game 
 that can keep you playing for hours. I can understand the hardcore diablo 2 players that has finnished 
 the game with every class on every difficulty but that kind of gameplay does not apeal to me. If 
 you are the kind of player that like to experiment and test different character styles and invent 
 your own style of gaming this is a game for you.
  
  Compared to the first game Diablo 2 never really comes close in my opinion. Diablo 2 is focusing 
 on technical matters such as skills classes and multiplayer but lacks the mysterical and dark atmosphere 
 of the first game that made you want to continue venturing deeper into the labyrinth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainBlaze
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  Diablo2 brings us a new story and new heroes to fight the forces of hell, with improved (albeit 
 not that much) graphics, heaps of new enemies, and hundreds of new weapons, armour and skills.
 
  
  some new heroes are a follows
  
  the Barbarian, specialist in bashing the living crap outta his foes. He can carry a weapon in each 
 hand if he feels the need and can master ANY type of weapon, this guys your king hitter
  
  the Necromancer, this guy can raise the undead and an asortment of other freakish buggers to do 
 your bidding... which is really just what his name suggests, there are 5 characters in total and 
 all provide a very different experience and all are exiting to play, but i'll let you find out 
 who the other characters are when you go and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shower_Curtain
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 may be one of the best Rpgs i have ever come across. The second I started playing diablo 
 (original) I was hooked and when Diablo 2 came out I knew i was never gonna dislike this game. 
 One reason that its so addictive to me is the online support. With online you can met tons of friend 
 to hang out with on diablo 2, you can trade items to different chars [in single player thats not 
 possible] , Also the fact u can grow levels like crazy (have some1 rush you into nightmare then 
 do cows at level 20, in single player that'd be impossible) . Another thing that makes it sooo addictive 
 is the replay value... Idk if i have ever put so many hours into a game that i have only spent 20 
 bucks on. If you love rpgs and do not have diablo 2 its a MUST buy. Even if your not a huge fan 
 of rpgs you may even like Diablo2. Yes the graphics are not the best but the gameplay makes up 
 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archisbhatt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  For amature gamers, it is a very hard game to play, it requires good gaming skills to play. In 
 the end of the game, you'll definately fall in love with the game if you can ignore it's graphics. 
 The game apart from having good gameplay, will gives you a feeling that you are in the ancient 
 world. Game's a little scary because of it's surprising nature. You would always find yourself 
 stuck betwween evil creatures and monsters if you are not alert enough!!! Gotta finish 100 words 
 so, I request you to ignore the further junk I am typing: sdafasdf dfardsg sdgasdgad sdfadsfsdf 
 asdfadfad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital_DJ_00
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II's story might not have been as good as the first Diablo, but the online multi-player 
 was far superior in the second installment. Instead of just having 3 character types to choose 
 from, you now have 5 (or 7 if you have the expansion) to decide on. Each character has it's strong 
 points and cool abilities so there's no wrong choice. The world of Diablo II is substantially bigger 
 than the first Diablo, and not to mention a little bit more diverse. Being able to battle Mephisto 
 was a good choice for Blizzard because the thought of taking on another brother besides Diablo 
 was awesome. Plus ganging up on them with other players is a blast. There is a much wider variety 
 of item possibilites, plus there are more equip slots for you character in Diablo II than there 
 is in the first Diablo. Looking for better items for your character is obviously the funnest part 
 about Diablo II, as it was as well for the first Diablo. And now there is a huge inventory of possible 
 drops in Diablo II, it's much much bigger than the first Diablo. The bummer part about Diablo II 
 is that even for a game made in 2000, the in game graphics seemed dated. Which not only dissapointed 
 fans of Diablo II, but over-all degraded the greatness of Diablo II. But the graphics are the only 
 dissapointing thing which is excusable considering there a TON of strong points that outweigh the 
 bad. The choice of what skills to add in for your characters has been greatly increased, and some 
 of the skills are just way too cool. If you're a fan of multi-player rpg games, DEFINATELY pick 
 this title up, especially the expansion for it. (Lord of Destruction) And if you're a fan of the 
 first Diablo, what are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RelXe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  Heroes of might and magic II was my very first pc game. But after that Diablo II came by and i 
 was hooked instantly :P
  Been there since * i can remember * Version 1.6 ( if there were any versions earlier i've played 
 them as well ) anyways.
  Played till 1.10 but that was with LoD.
  Been hooked on the game for more than 3 years, playing almost everyday.
  There was just something 
 that never bored me about the game.
  Keep training your characters, search for better items most of the time. Going hunting with friends, 
 PVPing. The best thing i guess was just getting richer, richer and richer :P
  Really hoping for a Diablo III to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaClaw345
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  After years upon years of tuning, tweaking, and broken release dates, Diablo II is finally on shelves 
 and stands as maybe the best example that good things come to those who wait.
  
  PC gamers who've never played Diablo are harder to find than a cheap apartment in Tokyo. Blizzard 
 wowed gamers years ago with a game that made action fans take a look at RPGs and vice versa. By 
 taking away the cumbersome mechanics and introducing a basic point-and-click combat interface and 
 a system of constant reward, Blizzard did for RPGs what they did for realtime strategy with Warcraft: 
 They made it easy, intuitive, and impossible to put down. As soon as gamers got their hands on 
 the original, they began clamoring for a sequel.
  
  Now Diablo is back, and it's obvious that the years in development have been kind. Blizzard's trademark 
 is perfect playbalancing, and they've struck that pose again with Diablo II. Five character classes, 
 each with multiple skill trees and power paths, join together to fight the Prince of Terror as 
 he returns to plague the land. Whether you play the Barbarian, Amazon, Paladin, Sorceress, or Necromancer, 
 you'll find that no one class is more powerful than the others. No matter how you choose to set 
 up your skills, with the right tactics your character will be a force to be reckoned with in the 
 world of Diablo II.
  
  This title's been years in the making, and though that shows in its dated graphics and layout, 
 it's what's inside the game that counts. Control is as easy as pointing and clicking, and spells 
 and potions are as close as a hotkey away. Great voice samples, atmospheric music, and the gruesome 
 sounds of combat all contribute to Diablo II's overall sonic perfection. The multiplayer game and 
 single-player mode are, for all intents and purposes, the same, and those worried about cheaters 
 can play their games on Blizzard's free online service Battle. net, which stores characters on Blizzard's 
 servers, away from the prying fingers of cheaters. Diablo II's graphics, 2D and rather outdated, 
 are all that keeps the game from being all-out perfect, but even the visuals sport impressive lighting 
 and spell effects.
  
  When you buy Diablo II, be ready for some serious patch and driver downloading, as a huge portion 
 of early adopters had all sorts of graphics and sound card problems. You'll also want to connect 
 to Battle. net immediately upon starting up, because there's already a huge patch that fixes some 
 rather daunting gameplay bugs, and there ought to be another on the way, because gamers are finding 
 new bugs all the time. Liberal application of Blizzard's technical support system should have you 
 up and running in no time, and, for once, the game is worth the trouble.
  
  With its philosophy of constant reward (you're always finding better equipment, learning new skills, 
 or just leveling up) and its all-too-easy interface, Diablo II takes what the original Diablo did 
 well and expands on it. You'll get caught up in the quest to have the meanest Barbarian, the nastiest 
 Necromancer, or the holiest Paladin, and you'll forget the real world exists. The real evil in 
 this game isn't Diablo himself, it's that once you start, you won't be able to stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willxcool
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Thereve been many games that tried to emulate the magic of Diabo, but unfortunately most of them 
 failed to reproduce the magic that made the world of Diablo such a great hit Diablo is your supernatural 
 hack and slash fair  where you choose your class and hero to go venture in a dark world full of 
 the Dark devilish monsters, dungeon crawling and single handed battle going on against tons of 
 bad guys is what most of the thing you will be doing throughout the game in order for you to build 
 up your heros stats in order to get stronger.
  Addictive game-play, a high value of replays, tons of weapons and Items, multiple character class 
 to choose from, what makes this game a classic. I say the best Hack and slash Rts game ever made,
 
  As for sound and graphics - all are in top class condition not bad to be said, its perfect with 
 class Enough has said Blizzard has done it again with this Game DIABLO II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  The Diablo series should need little introduction. The first entry appeared in 1996 and quickly 
 gained a reputation for being the ultimate in hack n slash action-RPG gaming. The 2000 sequel 
 is essentially more of the same  only much, much bigger. Choose from five character classes and 
 click, click, click your way through four huge acts, each with a respectable number of randomly 
 generated maps and monsters. Variety is the name of the game here, and while the gameplay remains 
 simple, the sheer number of character builds and possible items is staggering. Its addictive. 
 Theres always a better weapon or shield or suit of armour out there to find. Theres always skills 
 to hone and gold to horde. The actual plot tends to fall by the wayside as the quest to create 
 the ultimate character takes over. While this is all well and good, the game has its flaws. There 
 is no real skill involved  your expertise at the game is measured only by how quickly you can 
 click your mouse over endless swarms of enemies. Its repetitive, and too mindless. Diablo II is 
 the best at what it does  pure fantasy action with a barely-there RPG taste  but there are better 
 games out there.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Even back in 2000, when the game was originally released, capping the resolution at 640x480 couldnt 
 have seemed like a wise move. Even on my relatively small (by todays standards) 1024x768 monitor 
 Diablo II looks beyond ugly at this resolution, rough and unclear. Thankfully the expansion bumps 
 things up to a more playable 800x600, but as far as the original stands, watch out. Resolution 
 aside, the actual style of the graphics is a 2D isometric viewpoint, typical of the late-90s but 
 already pretty antiquated when the game was released. It gets the job done though, and it does 
 mean that the simple meat n potatoes gameplay isnt unnecessarily overshadowed by graphical fanciness.
 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Theres nothing terribly outstanding either way as far as sound goes. Some generic sound effects, 
 minimal voice acting and suitably doomy music to fit in with the gothic horror theme. Certainly 
 nothing offensive, but you wont be missing anything by putting your favourite CD on instead.
 
  
  Value: 9/10
  The random nature of the gameplay, the large environments and the fairly lengthy main plot ensure 
 a long and intense game. Even after Diablos reign of terror is once more at an end, theres always 
 the option of Hell mode (the name says it all) or multi-player. A word of warning, corrupt does 
 not begin to describe the Diablo II multi-player community. Not everyone is guilty, of course, 
 and I hate to generalise but the large numbers of hacked characters, duped items and general foul 
 play is a big turn-off.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  Great.
  
  Pros:
  Addictive monster-bashing, stat-building and item-hunting.
  Random maps, monsters and items ensure 
 there is always something new.
  Remains a decent challenge throughout.
  
  Cons:
  Overly simplistic gameplay.
  Poor, low-resolution graphics.
  Corrupt multi-player rife with 
 hacking and item duping.
  
  Conclusion:
  Still the best in a now over-saturated action-RPG genre. For all your Dungeon Sieges and Titan 
 Quests, the genre has yet to see another Diablo II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediMutantX3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  WOW I am writting a Review for a game I played 6-7 years ago. I LOVED Diablo so I got Diablo 2 
 Collector's Edition. I was also a Webmaster on a Diablo 2 Website.
  
  I got the CE on June 30, 2000. I paid $60 for the CE and it comes with:
  
  &gt; Four-CD game
 
  &gt; A 24-minute Diablo II movie on DVD and in letter-box format
  &gt;70-minute soundtrack
  &gt; And the D&amp; D Diablo II pen-and-paper box set for playing D&amp; D in the Diablo II setting.
 
  
  I Love the game, it's More than 4 times longer than the Original Diablo.
  
  It has 4 Acts with A lots of Dungeons and areas to venture into in each of the acts. The Music 
 is Lonely, Haunting and scary putting you into the mood of the game.
  
  It doesn't have the Best graphics, but the Cinematics are Amazing, Top-notch.
  
  Gameplay is 
 Amazing! It's long and Challenging. Great loot drops and Unique items that you can get addicted 
 to find better ones.
  
  Depends on the class you play, you need different strategies for each class. And Monsters are packed... So 
 don't think this game is easier than most other RPGS.
  
  What else can I say? Check the game out for yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viciouslilmonst
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good it deserves a monthly fee.
  I used to play this game long ago but after about a year I stopped playing on my PC for a while 
 and ended up forgetting about D2.
  Until recently.
  I made a new account and am back into this game.
  This is SURELY one of the best MMORPGs in the 
 world and also one of my personal favorite games ever.
  The graphics obviously aren't gorgeous or anything, but the gameplay is fantastic.
  Using this 
 game on battle. net makes it 10x more fun.
  The expansion also is a must have.
  
  If you have not played this game and want to try it, I strongly suggest you buy a copy of this 
 game. It's cheap nowadays and completely worth it.
  I'm sure you'll love it.
  I give this game a 10 on 10 except for the graphics.
  But the graphics aren't THAT bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtfoxy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II is an MMORPG game. It is fairly old, but the graphics are acceptable, and the gameplay 
 is one of the best. The greatest part is that you can play for 15 minutes at a time. and still 
 have gotten somewhere at the end. Levelling up doesn't take long, and so you stay hooked on the 
 game. The player created servers, and small player numbers also make it fun because you can put 
 a level cap on so a level 99 can't come and annihilate everyone in your game. The most redeeming 
 feature of the game is its price. Once you buy the game you pay no more. There is no monthly fee! 
 If I were rating the game when it first came out I would have given it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake14159
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is the greatest game in it's class. That's because there is nothing else in it's class. 
 NWN tried to copy the one man party but couldn't. The story is great and the characters are cool. 
 The only thing you could say that is bad about Diablo 2 is it's graphics. They look like old Doom 
 1 and 2 graphics and the game was made around 2000. But people are still playing it waiting and 
 praying for Diablo 3. The game is a little tricky to master because you have to click on the screen 
 to get your spells and skills and take you eye off the battle. The hotkeys are good but you only 
 have 8 of them. But Diablo 2 is the best example that you don't need great graphics to have a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: letonique
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is a great game that combines several assets to make you keep playing it for a long time. 
 One of them is the variety of different characters you can create, even with seven different classes 
 each one has unlimited possibilities. Items also take a big part in making every character very 
 different from each pther. Also these will keep you hour after hour playing the game begging for 
 that unique which will make your character perfect. Diablo 2 is also very complex as battles depend 
 on lots of parameters: damage, acuraccy, defense, resistances and a lot more. The free difficulty 
 levels are a great motivation to continue especially Hell which can get frustratingly hard at moments 
 and make you run away from more than one battle. The graphics and the sounds may be the bad parts 
 of the game. For a 2000 release graphics are really sloppy and the sound can get really repetitive. 
 Even with those bad aspects, diablo 2 is an excellent game, extremely addictive and the best one 
 in its own style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the world of sleepless nights, this is the culprit that causes some of the most severe 
 health hazards to pc gamers worldwide, ranging from insomnia to involuntary muscle spasms. But 
 I'm not complaining! This is one hell of a game! I suppose it needs no introduction to the gameplay, 
 just read the official review.
  
  A very crucial element for its addictiveness is the innovative save system. It does not allow you 
 to save as you want like the original Diablo, rather, it has waypoints you can access later via 
 teleportation that serve to save your game too, but you will be ousted out to the main menu after 
 which and all non-boss monsters will be re-spawned whenever you load back your saves. This is the 
 damn reason why it's so addictive. You want to keep moving on to the next waypoint to avoid all 
 these enemies that you have fought before (though they are good level-up target practice) , and 
 the combat system is really fantastic such that you won't feel bored with it anytime.
  
  All characters have distinct skill trees that allow several combinations which translates to tons 
 of replay value. Other than leveling-up, the other addictive attribute is the element of treasure 
 hunting, ranging from unique rings to full armor sets, so even if you reach level 99, my bet is 
 you still wanna play on to get that very rare item to complete your Sorceress set.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilipepper87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Goods: Excellent replay value, incredible multi-player, tons of items, great game play.
  
  Bads: Dated graphics.
  
  Diablo 2 is an amazing game that renewed the dungeon crawling hack 
 N slash RPG experience. The original Diablo was great but diablo 2 adds new places to explore, 
 not just the cathedral. Also it has more classes to choose from not just the 3 types in Diablo. 
 Diablo 2 also has an amzing multiplayer experience that will have you hooked. If you play on Battle-Net 
 you probably won't play single player even though you can take you single player character online 
 on Open Battle- Net. Open Battle-Net is like Battle-Net except it has no rules so it's full of 
 hacks and mods and that stuff. Cloased Battle-Net is safe and usually has no hackers because of 
 the Rust Storm program.
  
  The AI in diablo 2 is good considering it's a dungeon crawler. The monsters will attack you and 
 run away so simple and good. Basically Diablo 2 is one of the best if not the best Hack N Slash 
 RPG's of all time. If you enjoy them then grab this until number 3 comes out (If it does...) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkieDonkey
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for some reasons:
  1) The game play is just very addictive and there is no other game in the market that have such 
 game play!
  2) The graphic of the game is pretty great when the game was got to the shops.
  3) The game story is really original and exciting form all the games (expect oblivion) !
  4) The 
 sound in the clips between the chapters (and the clips) are just great, of course that the sound 
 effect is great when you speak with people or just hit some monster it just make AMAZING sounds!
 
  5) Well i think every should buy this game only because it's the most great game in every genre: Sound, game 
 play, story and only because it has great multi player option that is complete FREE!
  5) The multi player let you do thinks you can't do in single player like for an example: Trading 
 with people, doing quests with your friends, a ranking system and just chat with your friends!
  
  I think you should buy the game form your Diablo player, DorkieDonkey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 2, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Once again Blizzard has never seizes to amazes me with all of their
  fantastic games. The year was 2000, and it was a glorious year.. beside the whole Y2k thing.. Blizzard 
 was at the top.. with the release of it previous and extremely popular game Starcraft and starcraft: 
 brood wars.. it seem appropriate that Blizzard should release a sequel to one of it most popular 
 RPG game ( and even one of my favorite games of all time) DIABLO!!
  
  That right this is the sequel to the game of year.. from my understanding of the first Diablo.. a 
 sequel seemed necessary.. but i wont go into details why
  ( the reasons due to spoiling.. sorry guys) .. still this is the sequel.. Diablo 2!!
  
  First off 
 is the plot, always a first in my reviews...
  The story of Diablo 2 is about the return of the evil forces roaming around.. and it seems as though 
 the Prime Evil are back in action... even our bad boss Diablo! ( uh oh!) This time the Prime Evil 
 want no mistake from last time.. this time theyre doing things from the book.. Uniting the force 
 of evil and conquring the world once and for all.. but there only one problem.. they forgot about 
 the 5 heroes!!
  
  Just like the first Diablo, theres is now 5 classes which you can choose from.. Each with a unique 
 powers, characteristic and strengh and weakness.
  
  1) Paladin: He's you typically heroic leader.. a holy man and a man with great fighting skills and 
 magical auras..
  
  2) Amazon: shes a combat fighter, much like Diablo 1's Rogue, shes well skilled in the bow and arrow, 
 along with Spears and javelins... excellent for long range
  
  3) Barbarian: Just like the Warrior in Diablo 1, this class knows the meaning of good close combat! 
 Good with swords, axes, polearms, maces.. hes your choice for fierce fighting
  
  4) Sorceress: Shes the female version of the Sorcerer in Diablo 1, great with magic and hardcore 
 spells!
  
  5) Necromancer: he specializes in magic of darkness, raising the undead, using curses on hes enemies 
 and making total nightmares to the foes!
  
  Either of these classes, can be used.. and your choice will determine how youll fight through the 
 enemies.. and eventually fight Diablo.... again :\
  
  So the real question is what make Diablo 2 different from Diablo 1?
  first off the biggest difference 
 compared the two is the world. Unlike in the first where it focused mostly in the corrupted places 
 in the church and in the town of tristram.. Diablo 2 feature 4 different land, each with certain 
 missions and setting. Theres new characters to meet, some will be helpful, some not but it good 
 to make conversation right? Ofcourse the enemies are plentiful by the bunch, but they all will 
 try to kill you. And there are of course the Small bosses.. ughh soo annoying. And be sure to find 
 a familiar character from the previous game!
  
  There new weapons, new armor, new potions and loads and loads of new items for you to discover.. and 
 many annoying missions.
  
  Another new feature in the game is the skill your classes can obtain.
  Just like in the first 
 diablo, youll get the chance to build up your classes level, by upgrading strengh, life, mana.. etc.. along 
 that you can choose a magic skill, meant for your character.. in other word, in diablo 1, you had 
 to find books and tomes to obtain a spell, but in diablo 2 certain character can choice certain 
 skills.. (Eg.. Sorceress can choose a skill to improves fire spells.. or the barbarian can upgrad 
 there fighting skills) The games itself was pretty good, however there were some twitch that really 
 annoyed me..
  the graphics in Diablo 1 was amazing, considering its time of release. Diablo 2 graphic is surprisingly 
 disappointing.. almost just dated graphics.. tad choppy and a little laggy.
  The biggest flaw in this game, and this one really annoyed me is saving. Unlike in Diablo 1, youll 
 have to exit the game after you saved.. meaning when you get back to the game.. you have to start 
 right from your town.
  youll have to fight all the enemies, and lose track of everything.. very annoying!! (but you wont 
 lose your items are anything you found)
  
  still Diablo 2 is must have if your a hardcore Blizzard fan, just be sure to Save and exit .... UGHHHH!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  GamePlay: In Diablo 2 you play as a new warrior, either as an Amazon, Barbarian, Necromancer, Paladin, 
 or Sorceress. You must stop the wanderer, the former warrior with a Soulstone stuck in his head, 
 from loosing hell on earth. And so your adventure starts you off in a little Villige/Town and you 
 go around exploring dungons, Jungles, Deserts and mountains. Well the gameplay itself is quite 
 simple. It's a third RPG game and you use the mouse mostly when you move and to attack you click 
 on the enemy and hack, slash and poke the enemy. It is really fun and fast and action oriented. 
 That is, fun for the first few hours, But then something happens, You begin to realize that the 
 whole game is going to be like this. Fighting the same monsters disguised with different colors 
 and almost the same abilities and names over and over again. Only to wonder at your ability to 
 commit genocide without any kind of repercussions. There is also a multiplayer portion of the game 
 which allows you to playe up to eight other players to play though the game.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics a quite an improvement from the first one, It's a mix of 2-D and 3-D graphics 
 and the enviroments and textures are all well done and colorful. Though it's sometimes hard to 
 see when you are in dark places and you have the lights on your monitor low.
  
  Sound: The sound is very good. All of the different monsters have their sounds which are all good, 
 especially the little creepy guys with big heads and even bigger knives in Act III. The voice over 
 acting is once again done with style and talent, and adds to the game immensely. Even the little 
 things that the characters say when there is no more room in the inventory is done well. The music 
 in the game is also very good adding to the enviroment of the game nicely. Value: All in all, while 
 this sequel is bigger and better then the first Diabilo, you can't help but sense that something 
 was lost by the wayside. There is nothing quite innovative about the game, but the replayability 
 is quite good and you can play it a number of diffrent times with the five diffrent characters. 
 I give this game 8.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamatrix
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Diablo2... Diablo2?, Diablo2 !! What can i say about the game? Perfect? Great? Amazing? or surprising?...... All 
 them. It's the perfect game for RPG fan. Players play it infinitely because the lifespan is incredible. 
 The sounds are almost frightening because they are so realistic. They are so many unique weapons, 
 armour and items that each players can find his favourite one. Graphics are not awesome, but they 
 are pleasant and detailed. Boss are unforgettable because they are difficult. (not for everybody) . 
 The cost of the game is very low, (even with the Expansion Pack!!) , making the game available for 
 everyone. The only thing i hated is the space in your bank and the space of the inventory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terry_Foxman
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Blizzard is one of the best gaming companies out there, although it is most widely known for WoW 
 it has a great line up of games outside just that. All of its games from RPG to RTS have an in 
 depth storyline that draws you in and lets you experience true gaming. Diablo 2 is no exception, 
 this is a sequel to the already imminent game of Diablo, although playing the original will give 
 you some nostalgia it is not a pre-requisite. Diablo 2 is a great stand alone RPG that has a thrilling 
 storyline, that really packs a punch. This game is probably the best precursor to WoW. Although 
 this game is a wonderful, epic and drawing story the online play makes this game playable over 
 and over again. Every true perfectionist will strive for the best armor, the best rings, and the 
 best everything really. It is a true classic in RPG and the popularity of Battle. net is what really 
 inspired the MMORPG. This is a true game for anyone that considers themselves an RPG fan.
  
  The run down:
  The game play is amazing, the story and the freedom to level and experience 
 a true D&amp; D RPG that will have you playing countless hours and wondering what happened to your 
 life.
  
  The graphics, although dated and incomparable to WoW or anything like that, however they are still 
 captivating and add to the game play and do not detract from it.
  
  The Sound follows the original game, and is great, really drawing you into the game, in fact when 
 you get a chance to revisit the first game by goring to Tristram it still brings a tear to my eye 
 to see the devastation and hear the old music.
  
  This game is one you will play over and over and over, creating the best character you can getting 
 better and better online.
  
  Overall in todays world with great MMORPG's this game is overshadowed however if you ever want 
 a free online experience that doesn't require the best rig this is really the best game to buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kim_the_Kaw158
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 19, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is a game which is sought to be never ending, i played this game, i found its graphics 
 so %&amp;*# that it was beyond repair and i found the idea of it not alll just being in one world 
 sickening. now to the TRUTH =) The single player is so crumby you will chuck the game away in a 
 day so avoid that head straight for Battle. net. here you can level your character up online and 
 talk to other diablo 2 playing crazed people or just generally have a gasbag on the IRC chat. anyway 
 the game probly has the best range in abilities that i have never seen in any game in my life (well 
 almost) there are 4 characters to chose to start off and tran, Barbarian, Necromancer, Paladin and 
 an amazon all with different talents and different ways to play the game. Im sorry i couldnt make 
 this review longer but there was basically nothing else i could say about this game the best advice 
 for this game .KNOW WHAT YOUR BUYING.
  cheers,
  kim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilthik
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  It's almost 7 years since Diablo II was released and despite its clear success, not a single game 
 has been released since to follow in its footsteps. Sure there's a new action-adventure RPG released 
 every 10 seconds, but this one is unique. Why is that?
  
  Let's start with the interface. You don't need to tape the back of your manual to a wall to look 
 at the cheat sheet every time you need to do something because the mouse controls most actions. 
 Besides that there are function keys and potions. A trained monkey can operate the game. And when 
 you look at the interface on your screen it's visually pleasing. Simple, but not too simple. It's 
 simply the best 2.5D interface ever made and a great interface makes any game so much easier to 
 get into.
  
  Style of play is also unique and satisfying. But Ilthik, you say, aren't there dozens of other 
 games where you can hack away at demonic cows, mobs of zombies, and exploding minions of evil until 
 your axe is worn to the handle? Aren't there other games where you can fire off 100 arrows in the 
 time it takes you to read this sentence.. if you really wanted to? You may think so, given the incredibly 
 satisfying feeling of mowing through gobs of monsters, but this isn't the case. Every new MMO, 
 RPG, and action adventure game basically pits the player against one monster at a time. Or two. 
 Three is pushing it. Four: you'd better be running. Only a few FPS games preserve that god-like 
 status for the player, but these so-called ego-shooters have their own issues that I won't get 
 into here. Still, cutting through mobs of mobs isn't satisfying all by itself, but there is more 
 to it. Most areas in the game are fairly unique. They aren't so unique that you basically have 
 to relearn the game every time you get to them, but they offer interesting new variations on a 
 theme. Also, the monsters aren't just standing there letting you hack them to pieces. If you do 
 something wrong, you'll likely die. D2 isn't always an easy game, but it does let you break away 
 now and then to really wreak some havoc. In other words, it's balanced. I'll give one more reason 
 for D2's supremacy: the community. On the one hand, you have a variety of ways to play the game. 
 Play it offline, play it on an open server with buddies, play it on BattleNet, each offers benefits 
 and disadvantages. But the key is that you have a choice. Want to play WoW with your buddies on 
 a private open server? Hmm, too bad. How about playing the Guildwars story solo (so that maybe, 
 just maybe, you can read all the cool story stuff and see the movies before some jackass gets impatient 
 and quits the group) ? No can do. You can play D2 YOUR way, not Blizzard's way. After all, you paid 
 for it, didn't you? Speaking of having paid for the game, how many other polished action adventure 
 RPGs can you play on a public server without a subscription? Not so many. Try a different genre. 
 But the community and the options extend even beyond that. Few games can claim such an active fanbase 
 even so long after the game is released. The mods available for D2 breathe plenty of new life into 
 the game and if you don't life the available offerings (doubtful) , or if you've played them all 
 and want more (likely) , you can make your own mod. Cool? Very.
  
  Putting it all together, D2 is the epitome of game balance. Not just difficulty balance or skill 
 balance, but overall sensory load, interface, options balance. The only reason I ding it a point 
 in gameplay is because of certain BattleNet griefers/cheaters. I take a point away on sound and 
 graphics because the atmosphere created by D1's music/sounds is much creepier, which I feel is 
 more appropriate for this kind of game. Aside from these minor points, I see no way to improve 
 upon Diablo II without adding something to the genre that genuinely improves it, not just repackaging 
 it in fancy graphics, convoluted control schemes, and various devices created solely to add 'playing 
 time' to the game like repetitive quests, long travel times, and overly difficult battles. Hmm, 
 isn't that what we pay game developers to do? I guess that's why we're still all playing Diablo 
 II after 7 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  The most Legandary RPG games ever, the 2nd best selling game in history.
  
  Officially today at the year 2007 Diablo 2 is the best selling game. starting a revolution in all 
 RPG games, this game started most of other RPG games, giving the other RPG companys great ideas 
 to make RPG games.
  
  But why is this game the best RPG to date? This game has over 1400 monsters, 3 difficultys ( normal, 
 nightmare, and HELL) Over several hundred weapons, potions, dozens of runes, and diamonds and gems, 
 tons of quests and 4 acts, where you get to fight a MASSive boss, with still over hundreds of players 
 currently playing this game in the year 2007, and this game is about 9 years old. Over 5 dozen 
 spells, dozens of maps, and endless fun.
  
  This game is recommened to all RPG players who want to see how their favorite RPG's got their ideas 
 and a legendary game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dman2815
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  D2 is one of the best hack and slash games every made you chose from 4 different class's there's 
 the barbarian the knight Amazon and necro they all have there strengths and weakness's this is 
 one of the most addictive games you can play the first towns missions are pretty easy but then 
 the game gets a lot harder as you advance there's Thousands of different weapons and armor and 
 spells and power-up's it a great game with very few weakness's the only weak points of the game 
 are the graphics and the view but besides that it pretty much prefect I highly recomend this game 
 to any video game fan. "The actual gameplay still consists almost exclusively of killing monsters 
 to gain treasure and experience points. Since your character constantly gains more and more formidable 
 abilities and weaponry, that relatively simple style of play proves to be just as addictive as 
 it was in the original Diablo and in other games that have since exploited the same formula. It's 
 difficult to extract yourself from a game that always keeps you on the verge of being rewarded 
 for another achievement. "
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  When I first bought Diablo 2 upon release I thought it was a gift from God.. It had everything 
 that made the first game excellent and improved on the formula.. but as time went on.. I played 
 and played eventually getting my little Sorc up to level 87 in single player. I placed every skill 
 point I had into my frozen skills.. because at the time all those immune to cold monsters.. were 
 NOT immune.. Frozen orb would rip through those immune baddies like they weren't even there.. but 
 alas my joy ended when 1.08 patch came out effectually nerfing my sorc. I was so pissed I literally 
 refused to play the game for years. I am guess I wasn't the only one to do this since I have talked 
 to others and they had similar experiences.. times they decided screw this game and left for long 
 periods.. (if you wish try a sorc without patching your LOD game and focus on ice)
  
  But as time went on.. I found myself coming back for more Diablo 2.. but by then the game had changed.. 
 patch 1.10 was out and had these weird chain skills thing that made leveling up a sorc hard.. no 
 longer could I just focus on one skill and become godly.. but I had to split my time.. so I worked 
 up another sorc.. but by the time I hit nightmare difficulty my sorc was getting her butt handed 
 to her.. I got frustrated again and dropped the game.. I am back now.. for some more beatings now 
 with version 1.11 Hopefully, I can become more dedicated to the game and not drop it when I run 
 into snags..
  
  Okay on with what matters if you can call it that.. hell I gave the game a perfect 10.. considering 
 what it was like back then.
  
  hmm 3D card NOT required.. kick butt I could play it without having to buy a voodoo card! YESS! 
 This made my heart rate go up when I realized this simple fact.. At the time my System Shock 2 
 game was still sitting on a shelf waiting.. waiting ... and waiting... Yes some memorable times 
 I did have with Diablo 2.. LAN parties.. meeting each other online and playing over the net.. etc.. 
 I am still suprised at how many people still play this overly addictive game.. we try to quit.. 
 yet somehow we find ourselves coming back for yet more.. even while graphically improved games 
 like Sacred and Titan Quest are made.. Even while Silverfall is just days away! If your a newcomer 
 to Diablo 2.. you may never experience the joys that many of us old players had.. and how overly 
 infuriated the game caused us to become.. but you may MAY find an addiction here not had in other 
 hack/slash RPGs.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daytona_178
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game is regarded in pretty much all of the gaming world as one of the best RPG's in existence. 
 Somehow Blizzard have created a game that is easy to get into, and yet also provides hours and 
 hours of addictive gameplay to boot. One thing that stands out in this game is the still ever popular 
 online multiplayer, which allows you to log onto Battle. Net for free and play in maps with up to 
 8 people. For newbies to this game online help can prove very beneficial when you think about the 
 fact that you can level up to about lvl 70 or 80 in about 1 week....... if you so wish. But if 
 thats not your cup of tee or if your not online you can enjoy a more slow paced and still highly 
 fun singleplayer mode. But at the end of the day this is just a extremely well put together RPG 
 that deserves at least a try.
  
  If you would like to get involved with the Diablo community on Gamespot then feel free to join 
 the 'Diablo 2 Lord of Destruction Union'.
  Also if you found this review helpfull please recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adam-G
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Wow... this game is just stunning. It is an amazing experience. It is very addictive and I do not 
 recommend touching it unless you have strong willpower. If you don't you will end up like me, completly 
 addicted to this game... staying up until 3 in the morning trading my Shards and trying to find 
 Stone of Jordan Rings and other great stuff. This is an amazing game and everyone who likes computers, 
 games, and talking with other people online should go out to the store right now and purchase this 
 game. It is one amazing game and everyone should try it out. Also I like the variety. It has a 
 choice of characters. You can be a Paladin, Barbarian, Amazon, Sorcerer or Necromancer, each which 
 posess amazing skills you earn through out gameplay. This is a must buy for computer maniacs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darussell1958
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  New Heroes must arise to fight... and youve chosen to join the fray. In your quest to push back 
 the darkness and vanquish the demons that threaten to destroy the world, you will walk across vast 
 plains crawling with undead and travel through dank caves reeking with the stink of unseen monsters. 
 And you dont have to fight alone, you can choose to fight alongside true allies, complementing 
 and enhancing each other's abilities in order to create a force that must work together to succeed.
 
  
  Gameplay, Controls, Interface
  The gameplay in Diablo II is very similar to the original; fans of Diablo are going to feel at 
 home almost immediately. Basic movement and attacks are virtually unchanged and while the graphics 
 are greatly enhanced, they retain the flavor of the original game. Diablo II is split into four 
 acts. The first act centers on an Amazon camp near Tristram (the town originally featured in Diablo) . 
 You even get to visit the now destroyed town on a mission to rescue one of the townsfolk. Other 
 missions include recovering lost or stolen items from dungeons and crypts, finding arcane items 
 and ingredients, and destroying the demonic minions that infest the land.
  
  While the overall feel of the game is familiar there are several significant differences -- the 
 two youll notice first are the character classes and the way skill advancement works. There are 
 five different character types in Diablo II: the Barbarian, Necromancer, Sorceress, Amazon, and 
 Paladin. Each of the five classes has a skill tree of possible skills, no two of which are alike. 
 The Paladins skills focus on Auras that either protect or enhance their abilities as well as their 
 allies. Necromancers are masters of summoning, bringing fourth bands of undead warriors and golems 
 to fight at their behest. The Sorceress uses the powers of magical fire, cold and electrical energies 
 to unleash devastating spells. Barbarians and Amazons are master fighters, although they differ 
 in their preferred choice of weaponry. Your character will gain new abilities each time he or she 
 increases a level and also as a reward for some quests. Each skill point earned allows you to increase 
 one area of expertise. The Sorceress skills are her spells -- no more hunting for a tome so you 
 can learn a new spell, just spend the skill point and youre there. Another major difference is 
 in the variety of items available and the all-new socketed items. Socketed items act like regular 
 weapons, helms, and shields, but have one additional feature. During your adventures you will find 
 gems of different quality levels that can be put into the sockets, granting the items new abilities. 
 These gems can also change the look of the item when its equipped, making your characters appearance 
 in the game much more customizable than in the original Diablo. The game also includes new set 
 items. Each piece of a set has enhancements and special powers, but when combined the entire set 
 grants one or more additional bonuses.
  
  Multiplayer
  While the single player game is a lot of fun, Diablo II really shines in multiplayer. When players 
 team together to fight, their powers augment each other. For example, the auras generated by Paladins 
 apply to all members of the party, as well as any allies theyve conjured or hired. Players arent 
 automatically allied when they join the same game -- they must elect to team up. Since the maximum 
 number of players that can join a game has been increased, its possible to have two or more parties 
 in the same game. Blizzard has added other features to enhance multiplayer gaming, including a 
 secure trading system that allows players to swap items and cash without risk.
  
  There are two types of characters in the game: Open and Realm. Open characters are used in single 
 player games, as well as LAN games, games hosted on private TCP/IP servers, and games hosted in 
 the open section of Battle. net. These characters live on the players machine and are potentially 
 open to being hacked or modified (in fact cheating is already becoming common in open Battle. net 
 games) .
  
  Realm characters live on Battle. net and cant be used in any games other than on the secured realm 
 servers. Since they are stored on the servers theyre available from any machine (unlike the open 
 characters) and theyre considered more secure. For most players realm games have quickly become 
 the standard -- the extra security allows players to trust people they meet.
  
  While the idea of the realm games is great, Blizzard has some serious problems when it comes to 
 implementation. Battle. nets realm servers have been consistently overloaded since the games release 
 and in many cases have been completely down for hours or even days at a time. Blizzard is promising 
 improvements and they cant come fast enough to satisfy players who are becoming frustrated with 
 not being able to play. The requirement that new accounts and characters spend at least two hours 
 playing during the 48 hours after they have been created (or be automatically deleted) makes the 
 inability to connect even more frustrating. Graphics
  The graphics engine in Diablo II is a significantly upgraded version of what was used in Diablo. 
 Overall, the graphics are more detailed and the animations are smoother and more realistic. The 
 nicest new features is the support for 3D accelerators for enhanced lighting and magic effects 
 -- its really something to watch the shadows of barrels move as you maneuver around them in a 
 dark dungeon. The 3D acceleration also adds extra perspective and depth to the graphics -- dont 
 get me wrong, the non-3D mode looks great, but the 3D mode looks amazing.
  
  Be warned that there are some problems with the 3D modes though -- the initial release had problems 
 supporting some cards and, while most of these have been fixed for Win 9x users, Windows 2000 users 
 will still find many issues getting 3D acceleration working.
  
  Audio
  The soundtrack is wonderful and will even give you the chills at times. Each area of the game has 
 its own background theme, which gets creepier and more foreboding as the game progresses. You can 
 get a sample at Blizzards website -- theyll be releasing MP3 versions of the soundtrack over the 
 next few weeks. Topping off the soundtrack is a rich collection of effects and environmental sounds. 
 There is little in gaming life more satisfying that listening to an enemy explode wetly after youve 
 come very close to death yourself. System Requirements
  If you want to play multiplayer (and you do) the requirements are: Pentium 233 or faster (Pentium 
 II recommended) , 4X CD-ROM, 64MB RAM, 950 MB hard drive space available, and a 28.8k or faster 
 modem.
  
  Bottom Line
  If you liked Diablo, youll like Diablo II. Its proven very addicting and time consuming (just 
 ask our wives) , so if you dont have much time, you may not be able to really enjoy it. We said 
 this about Diablo but its just as true about the sequel: Diablo II really rocks. The gameplay 
 has maintained all the features that made the original enjoyable and the enhancements to character 
 growth, story depth, graphics, and multiplayer support are welcome improvements. While it is a 
 great game, it doesnt rate top honors due to the many issues with Battle. net and flaky support 
 for Windows 2000. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackandBlueMag
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Diablo. Click. II. Click. Review. Click. Yeah, enough of that. If any of you have played the original 
 Diablo, you know what I'm blabbing about. Well, this game is infinitely better than the original, 
 and it reaches new levels of addictivity.
  
  So, once again, you're a one man (or woman) extermination force. The graphics still suck, but that's 
 Ok, cuz, it's fun. And the effects are cooler, so the graphics aren't a complete letdown. So, gameplay 
 improvements. Well, there's actually new parts of the Diablo universe that you're visiting, such 
 as a desert and a forest, instead of going down and down to hell. And the missions actually feel 
 like something worth accomplishing. And they actually advance the story quite often instead of 
 feeling like tacked on side quests. You start out simple, then you collect a bunch of junk, upgrade 
 your skills and attributes and kick demon ass. By clicking on them. I mean, you could seriously 
 play this game without touching what I'm using excessively right now, but those hotkeys can come 
 in handy since there's only one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 5:49 am PT
Review:  Right now I'm reviewing a pretty old game, although I must say that I'm still impressed with this 
 one. Blizzard had the challenge to create a sequel to an already excellent game, which is a difficult 
 task to handle. Taking the risk, the developers tried to improve the formula on the first Diablo, 
 while trying to keep the original "feel" that made the game so great. The result is a more diversified 
 game that will drain your life without letting you even noticing. Welcome to Diablo II!
  
  This sequel takes the story immediately after the events in the original Diablo. After the Lord 
 of Terror been defeated, the hero who killed him was consumed by its spirit, and the dark lord 
 was able to once again spread his horror in the world of Sanctuary. His plan now is to unite all 
 the three prime evils, and he starts his job destroying the city of Tristram. Your goal in Diablo 
 II is to stop Diablo from releasing the other two Prime Evils, Mephisto and Baal. This is just 
 a plot summary, you may want to hear the whole thing by talking with the different characters in 
 the game.
  
  In Diablo II you may become disappointed with the dated graphics, since they are still a bit similar 
 to its antecessor, although now with some new great special effects. I know that not everyone shares 
 my taste for 2D engines, but I do love the graphics in this game. You can increase the image quality 
 if you have a Direct3D / OpenGL / 3DFX compatible video card, although back in 2000 it would be 
 necessary a good gaming rig to run Diablo II smoothly.
  
  This time you can choose between five heroes to beat the Lord of Terror one more time: Sorceress, 
 Necromancer, Barbarian, Paladin and Amazon. This is by far the most fun part of the game. You'll 
 have infinite hours of gameplay if you decide to play this game with all of them, considering that 
 each character has a lot of different skill combinations. Your avatar becomes much more powerful 
 over the time as you earn experience by killing enemies and gain new levels. Each additional level 
 grants you five attribute points and one skill point. All the four Attributes (Strength, Dexterity, 
 Vitality and Energy) work almost identical to the first Diablo. For example: if you want to improve 
 you melee damage, make sure to invest some points in Strength; or if you want to improve your defense, 
 increase your Dexterity instead. But what's really new in Diablo II is the skill development. You 
 have no more books to improve your spells this time. The magical stuff is now exclusive to some 
 characters, such as the Sorceress and the Necromancer. On the other hand, Barbarians, Paladins 
 and Amazons are great when combating with weapons, although it's possible to use certain build 
 strategies that can completely change your experience with them. Experimentation is the key, and 
 you'll find that it's extremely fun to try all the possibilities with each class. 
  
  About the campaign, you'll have around 15 hours of gameplay for each difficulty level; quite a 
 large game I would say, since there're three difficulty settings (Normal, Nightmare and Hell) to 
 beat and the dimensions of the maps are extended as the game progresses on. There're four acts 
 to finish before you face Diablo, each one has six missions and a singular scenario setting. In 
 the first act, you'll find yourself in an Amazon camp. The second act is a desert with a port-city, 
 my favorite setting. The third one features a huge jungle, with some temples to explore around. 
 The fourth act is the hell itself, which looks as dread as you want it to be. Each act has unique 
 monsters and usually offers a good challenge. You can beat the campaign in both single player and 
 multiplayer (Battle. net or local) modes.
  
  If you're like those players that just finish the game in the regular difficulty level and then 
 jumps to another game, take notice that Diablo II was made to be beaten at least a few times. On 
 "Nightmare" and "Hell" settings, you'll find that the areas are expanded and the monsters drop 
 more quality items, eventually necessary to beat the final regions of the campaign. And, believe 
 me, it's really fun to develop a powerful avatar with the proper gear. 
  
  -Gameplay is simple flawless, apart from some rare annoying bugs that are triggered when using 
 certain skills. But in general, Diablo II will easily addict the player in just a few minutes of 
 gameplay. It's fast and nice and you'll find that to slain monsters is a pleasure. There are a 
 lot of different enemies in this game, such as archers, shamans, ghouls, demons, skeletons etc., 
 all of them have different abilities and strategies to be defeated. Some monsters will trouble 
 you a lot, like shamans that resurrect their allies or necromancers that cast curses to weaken 
 your character. Later on, especially on "Hell" difficulty, there're a lot of immunity opponents 
 that will increase the strategic level in this game, especially when venturing forth with a party.
 
  
  The sound in Diablo II is pretty good. The spells, monsters and ambient background are perfectly 
 fine. Also the music fits in every place you visit in the game, and you won't get bored after hours 
 of play. The constant CD-ROM access may slow down the game, but it doesn't constitute a dramatic 
 effect in the gameplay.
  
  This game has also an unusual save-and-load system. Your progress is stored in your character file, 
 so you won't have a lot of saved games in the main menu options. The game is periodically saving 
 your progress in your character file, so if die you cannot load the game to avoid the consequences. 
 This is a cool feature that makes the gameplay experience much more interesting, but can also frustrate 
 the player sometimes at higher levels of difficulty.
  
  Killing the goons, players and monsters alike, in Battle. net is also a great feature in Diablo 
 II. You can still find a lot of players making different character builds to develop the ultimate 
 slaughtering machine. This is one of the most interesting parts of the game, which extends even 
 more the amount of hours you may spend playing it.
  
  This is just a superb game that will make you busy for months maybe years. I really recommend 
 it for every PC gamer, especially if you can play it over the Battle. net or local multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kave1793
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II is probably one of the best of all time. Oblivions great to but diablo II is more fun.
 
  
  The Good:
  Lots of weapons, Armour. Gameplay is terrific. The view of the game; I like the view of this game 
 you can almost see all around you and stuff. classes are fun and well built. Monsters are awesome. 
 The sound is amazing i love how the zombies die and the groan they make. The randomly generated 
 Land, so u can never memorize the area. there is probably more *goes to play diablo II*
  
  The Bad.
  Graphics are dated like gamespot said but still i like it. The Classes looks as in u 
 cant be what gender u want. running looks a little stiff. i cant think of anymore
  
  Hope this helped ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJCaccy
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  I was loving Diablo 2 for the first few weeks. Then I realised what had happened. It had eaten 
 up my life. And I don't mean some of my life, or even most of it. I mean all of it. Now this is 
 not a good thing. I'd become an addict and for this addiction there is no patch.
  I think there comes a point in every Diablo 2 player's life (and I mean real life, not characters 
 life) where they realise that all they are doing hour after hour, day after day, is clicking on 
 a screen to attack some form of monster with their little digital warrior. At this point of realisation 
 there comes a decision. Take your life back and put the game away, or continue and lose yourself 
 forever. The buzzing online community for Diablo 2 is testament to this, as thousands still play 
 this ageing game, having lost any grasp on their actual lives a long time ago.
  Indeed if you ask a Diablo player what time it is they are likely to tell you its demon slaying 
 time with any further questioning leading to a response of shut up, im busy .
  It is true that Diablo 2 is a good game, but it is a game that should be played with the utmost 
 of caution. It will eat your life up. Don't go in thinking it'll never happen to me, I'm stronger 
 than that because it will and you aren't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonight
Rating: 2.9
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I don't know Diablo from A to Z. No! I don't know it even A to B. How could I know? I uninstalled 
 the game in 10 minutes. Because I couldn't accept its graphics. The gamestory is the most important 
 thing in the games for me. But these graphics are too bad. Yeah, I know, it's 2007 and the game 
 was released in 2000. But, look at Starcraft , look at its story and graphics too, even in that 
 year. I didn't play first Diablo too, of course. The Blizzard team really spent a long time for 
 the game. I believe it. Maybe I need a friend who likes Diablo so much and he'll help me to like 
 Diablo by playing it with pleasure and showing this pleasure me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  (Note: This review is based on the game when the Lord of Destruction expansion pack is installed, 
 hence I'll be basing the game when elements introduced in the expansion are implemented into the 
 gameplay i. e. class-specific items, the druid and the assassin, the fifth act etc. When you buy 
 this game, right after you read this review, I URGE YOU to get the expansion pack along with it. 
 You'll thank me for it later.)
  
  If I'm not wrong, the original Diablo game was, and still is, classed as one of the greatest games 
 ever made, and again, if I'm not wrong, it's the highest rated PC game on GameSpot. That means 
 that there's some pretty high pressure for a sequel to deliver - and, luckily, Diablo II delivers 
 a similarly incredible experience that even goes as far as to surpass its predecessor in some respects. 
 In the end, you're left with a masterfully made game that is almost impossible to dislike.
  
  Diablo II puts you in the shoes of an anonymous hero that belongs to one of seven very different 
 character classes (barbarian, sorceress, assassin, paladin, necromancer, druid, and amazon) . Each 
 character offers an extremely different kind of game to the next character, and that gives a lot 
 of incentive for replay value, but I'll talk about that later. Your character is the immediate 
 hero of the game, the only one who can supposedly rid the world of terror, destruction, and above 
 all the evil that is being wreaked by none other than Diablo. The plot to the game isn't particularly 
 original, of course, but it IS astonishingly well told through a series of amazingly well-produced 
 and voiced cutscenes and some intriguing pieces of dialogue that you'll find by talking to any 
 of the charismatic NPC's scattered throughout the game's five areas, or acts. And with a very vague 
 introduction, you're thrown headlong into a world riddled with hellspawn, and it is without doubt 
 a varied and diverse universe. For one thing, most of the game revolves entirely around randomly 
 generated environments; every time you play the game each area will be completely different to 
 when you last saw it. You won't be getting acquainted with familiar rocks or ridges or whatever 
 here - what the random environments do add, though, is a weird sense of mystery, and, of course, 
 it adds a ton of value to the game in the way that you won't ever play the same game twice. The 
 game's textures and colour palette will also change quite vastly throughout the course of the main 
 quest.
  
  Diablo II's main gameplay revolves around clicking on enemies, and that's about as far as it goes. 
 It may not sound like a 9.3-winning formula, but the game does offer up a ton of strategic opportunities 
 depending on your character class and style of play. The bottom line is, clicking on enemies is 
 hazardously addictive and the game actually gets fiendishly difficult pretty early on, and some 
 sections are downright difficult if you haven't had much or any experience in games of this type 
 before, OR if you have picked a character class that isn't exactly tailored to your preferences. 
 The game is heavily reliant on that left click, then. Clicking on any enemy will activate some 
 form of attack, be it sword slash, bolt of lightning or arrow fired from bow, and the enemy will 
 often leave behind items or treasure, which, you guessed it, have to be clicked on to be picked 
 up. Part of the game's addictive quality lies right down to these items - trading with others online 
 via Battle. net is pretty fun and identifying magical items gives off quite the excitement too. 
 Of course, gold can be used to buy items as well, but the items you'll find being sold by the game's 
 reasonable selection of traders are usually overpriced and aren't necessarily as unique or powerful 
 as those you'll find lying by hellspawn corpses or rotting zombie remains. Needless to say, while 
 this can be perceived as repetitive, it's a wildly addictive formula that keeps you back for that 
 critical one more hour , even if the quests in the game are usually along the lines of collect 
 or kill or save or destroy boss , the game always has a magical compelling quality to it. The game 
 implements a huge variety of these hellspawn and zombies to keep things consistently interesting, 
 and in that, it succeeds. Right from the off you are treated to rapidly advancing numbers of enemies 
 and critters, each requiring different spells or attack methods to be disposed of. Often, there 
 are unique enemies that have names or prefixes and these can be seen as mini-bosses. In the end, 
 you'll have to adapt to a number of different disciplines and strategies if you want to be efficient. 
 In the graphics department, the game is a bit mixed. On one hand, the game's technical aspects 
 are lackluster - the character models are a bit mucky, the environments are identikit, and even 
 for five or six years ago we were expecting more. On the other hand, some of the buildings and 
 namely the architectural designs in the game are superb and diverse, ranging from desert bazaars 
 to jungle docks to snow-covered villages desperate for defence. All shortcomings are redeemed in 
 Blizzard's astounding cutscenes which are as usual gobsmacking. The story is represented really 
 well in these lengthy cinematics and above all the art direction and animation is incredible. If 
 this was a movie, it'd be a darn good one, for Diablo II's cutscenes are in a word, gorgeous. In 
 the audio department, the game never ceases to amaze. The rousing soundtrack changes widely in 
 texture and feel throughout the game, and manages to create a huge soundscape of different musical 
 moods, ranging from the claustrophobic, dark sounds of the opening moors and fields to the rousing 
 orchestral scores you'll be hearing in the closing obstacles of the final act. Throughout, this 
 game delivers in its musical score and I'm eagerly scouting around for a CD of it. The voice overs 
 are also near perfect - they're pretty good in the cutscenes, providing an excellent narration 
 over the top of that awesome artwork, but in the dialogue from the NPC's they truly shine, bringing 
 those blurred character models to life and giving them a shining personality, be it a noble one, 
 a hopeful one, or one who has lost all faith and hope. Other than the obvious audiovisual majesty, 
 it's difficult to put my finger on why Diablo II is just so remarkable in all respects. Sure, it 
 has flaws - it's repetitive, it's derivative at times, and it doesn't really make any technical 
 advancements over its predecessor, but in the end, you can see past those flaws to envision a game 
 which is honestly magnificent in most aspects. It's an epic, lengthy adventure that is easily replayable 
 with other character classes or even with the same one; it has some unforgettable characters, boss 
 battles, enemies, and locations; and above all, it's just an amazingly well-made RPG. I honestly 
 cannot comprehend why anyone could possibly dislike this game - I have to thank Blizzard for treating 
 us, and the game industry, to one of the finest sequels anyone could have hoped for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeciusHelwig
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 27, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my Favorite RPG s. this game is superb, just the right game for any starter or a 
 avid diablo player, well packaged, and excellent gameplay value, worth the wait . all the monsters 
 and the items, armours, jewels, diificulty, and the graphics are all brilliant. the more you play 
 the more you get addicted to this game. it has all the elements of a masterpiece which are made 
 once in a lifetime. all the character types are superb and are excellent in their own skills and 
 game styles. this game offers tons of enjoyable times of killing and destroying diablo's armies, 
 and defeating his brothers armies. Its because of this game that many Look-a-Likes have been made 
 such as Titan Quest and Fate. This style is known from the Diablo Series and its a style that people 
 can grow on very easily. Unlike most now-a-day MMORPGs, Diablo and Diablo2 are real time. You attack 
 every click as opposed to having to wait for ur Character to attack or do a spell. They die as 
 fast as u click and u can manuelly dodge attacks. If there is an arrow coming towards you, just 
 move and it wont hit you.
  This makes PVP really funn and much different from all the others.
  its deffinately worth the 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  The first diablo changed the way RPGs were made. It took hack and slash to a whole new lvl. And 
 once again blizzard has amazed me once more with the release of diablo 2. I have no idea why Gamespot 
 rated diablo 2 so low? It deserves more respect then that. Even though the graphics are dated, 
 it doesn't matter. Yes you heard it, graphics don't matter with the level this game is at. The 
 game play is phenominal. Its litterly endless with items and monsters, even if you beat the game 
 you can still play and try to get the best items and make your character PWN. Or you can start 
 again with a new class with new maps and new monsters. The replay level is VERY high and the gameplay 
 is simple. Click click click. This might be boring to you but when you see the game itself when 
 you start playing, you'll be arguing with your older self. The story isn't very orginal. In fact 
 its plain out overdone. But everything manages to fit in with the story and give it twists and 
 turns along the way so its all good. The sound is so damn incredible. It matchs with the area and 
 the sound that the monsters cry out are well done too. Plus the little voice actting this game 
 has its pretty good. And now for the weak part, the graphics. Well you know how i said that graphics 
 don't matter? Well i mean it, and they aren't that bad anyways. The skills are amazing the spirtes 
 are well done. So i come back to my question. Is it good? Well HELL yeah. And i hope you now belive 
 that Gamespot has given diablo the wrong mark, it should be at least above 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soilworker123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is and will always be my favorite game of all time. With its intuitive design and excellent 
 gameplay it makes for a good all round game.
  
  Giving you 5 characters to choose from... it makes the game just that good. With five choices it 
 gives you choice to which character you want to master.... Hell.. just go ahead and master them all. 
 Its worth it.
  
  Theres so much to do in this game.... youll never be able to complete it to the fullest. With 5 
 areas called Acts.. each having there own separate environment design. The environments arent to 
 exciting in some places but this gave Blizzard North many choices for the different types of monsters 
 they wanted to have.
  
  Diablo 2 is good in just about every aspect... the only thing that may turn you off is the graphics. 
 They are a littled dated.. but still much better then the first game. Diablo 2 has much longer gameplay 
 to keep you occupied for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BearWonderer
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II, Great continuation of the original Diablo. Has another great impact on PC gaming world. Has 
 extended it's wonderful story ,The Prime Evils (finally) have been release.
  
  GREAT IMPACT
  This game let's you continue on, while your playing the game, your not gonna even 
 notice the graphics because you just want to know all there is to know in this game, what another 
 great experience your gonna have on this game
  
  TRILL FOR DISCOVERY
  This game has many rare, unique items, that makes you keep going and push you to the limits.
  
 
  BRING DOWN THE PRIME EVILS
  This is why this game is made for
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Great style done for this game that (ONCE AGAIN) shape the gaming world plus a Online Gameplay that 
 makes you want to compete for more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  First of all i'll speak on the past because this game is kinda old now, but even then this game 
 WAS for me the best multiplayer RPG ever! I mean, there was a lot of different magic to use, amgical 
 point to give to increase your spells attributes, a new running system! (wow this is cool) ...
 
  But seriously, i can understand people who had no internet connection to dislike the game, but 
 once online... WOW. awesome. This game can be very chalenging at a time, and very very very addictive. 
 geting to lvl 99 is so **** hard my best was 94 I think. But also, there was some different classes 
 to choose from. lot of armor and weapons. not so much quests compare to MMORPG but still, some 
 quests. this game IS god damn repetitive for sure (once you complete it, you do the whole thing 
 again 2 times) and killing monsters, then killing bees, then killing undead, then killing boss... 
 also, at the start, ohh this red little thing are cool. later on, wow now they are blue and stronger! 
 later again, damn again those **** monsters, but now they are green... how original... haha even 
 then, i still really enjoy this game, because even it's alll about killing again and again, the 
 system makes that some player can OWN other players of the same lvl, only depending on the way 
 he spend is point and is equipement. also, later on was added a new system online. each timme, 
 it lasted a year i think, and it make people to start to play with only new users at the same time. 
 this way, thing is hard to get at first, and trading is different because some stuff dropped not 
 as many time. also people were rated on there lvl. the worst point about this game was the begening 
 of hacks, steals and later on... SCAM. scam scam scam. NO WE DON'T CARE ABOUT BUYING **** ARMOR 
 FOR 90.00$ argggg, sry about this frustration. anyway, this game is a need to any who like rpgs, 
 but maybe not now, because the game is like more then 6-7 years old now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calltheherd
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Blizzard made an excellent game with Diablo 2.
  it's free online service, Battle. net is amazing, as even today people still play it. it's graphics 
 aren't quite up to 2006/2007 standards, but they're okay...
  and it's creepy sound still scares me.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  like i said, they're not quite 06/07 
 but they aren't that bad. Sometimes blocky, sometimes okay... and the overuse of red is kinda annoying.
 
  
  Sound-9/10
  it's got creepy songs, good sound effects and nice enemy sounds. voices are well-done, and the 
 sound of stuff hitting the ground is flawless. (like it really matters, but stuff hitiing the ground 
 sounds amazing) .
  
  Value-10/10 Diablo 2's free online service is where it shines. You don't have to wait to find a 
 game, and the service almost never crashes. Single player isn't that value-packed, as you don't 
 get to take advantage of the help of others.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  Diablo 2 has four acts All being a nice bit of time. Like i said, single player is nothing special, 
 just another game. Multiplayer, with the difficulty balance, help of others, ability to trade with 
 others, and just plain fun is where the gameplay shines.
  
  Overall, Diablo 2 is a Must-have, even for relatively low-end systems.
  if you don't own it now, 
 go to your local wal-mart, or other store and pick it up for about $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_murr69
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 this game just amazes me, for a game that was released in the 1990's it is just awesome, 
 its replay value is so high i think i have beaten the game atleast 15 times and i still plan on 
 beating atleast 15 more, the quests post a challenge so its great, it has a good storyline, the 
 boses ie mephisto, diablo are strong which posts a huge challenge if your playing without any hacks. 
 but overall this game is simply the best game ever if you havent played it do it right now. go 
 out buy this game and clear your schedual for a few days because this game is so addictive that 
 you wont wanna stop playing for days on end. DIABLO 2 GET IT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This may be the greatest paradox in gaming history. It has lousy graphics and the most mind numbingly 
 repetitive combat in the history of mankind. The character customization is really just so-so. 
 But this is just the most downright addicting game possibly ever created by mankind.
  
  You play hour after hour. Your eyes feel like they are going to explode from your skull. What have 
 you accomplished. You've beaten the game.... again....
  
  Or maybe you're online, playing with retarded pre-teens and getting chopped to pieces. Unfun.
 
  
  But that soundtrack is so haunting, and it calls me back again and again like an evil siren song... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkaddict1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The folks at Blizzard have some serious gems on their hands; the Warcraft series, Diablo, and Starcraft. 
 The Diablo II gameplay has been modeled by many other hack-n-slashers, all trying to tap into the 
 crazily addictive realm that Blizzard has mastered. All this game needs is a face lift and it could 
 still hold its own among PC RPGs to this day.
  Diablo II doesn't offer a complex character creation system, but each pre-made character is deeply 
 customizable within their own skills. At each level-up, you are given options to increase skills 
 in a multitude of attacks and stats, giving each player their own unique Barbarian, Necromancer, 
 Paladin, Sorceress, or Amazon-woman.
  The story is intriguing, combined with slick cut-scenes (the later game ones are incredible) . The 
 voice-acting is excellent, for the most part, and the dialogue never really tires or becomes boring. 
 The graphics on the other hand, need work. When this game came out, the isometric view's popularity 
 was waning, despite Blizzard's best attempt at making it work. This is not to say that the worlds 
 are not richly detailed. Far from it, in fact. The small details are a wonder to look at and examine, 
 but unfortunately the resolution doesn't allow for close scrunization.
  All in all, a very long game (expect 40+ hours) , and worth playing while waiting for your WoW server 
 to come back online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatPainTypo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  The game is just different to play in classic mode. Sure, the stash is smaller, but there are no 
 runes, charms, jewels, and class-specific gear to pick up and haul around. Barbarian whirlwind 
 skill is so much more efficient in classic gameplay. The expansion adds some sort of maximum hits 
 per attack. Of course you don't have a mercenary to arm and revive all the time. It really just 
 provides a different experience, even if you build the same character build in both modes. You 
 don't get to use weapon switch on classic, so you pick something and use it. If you want to swap, 
 you pick up and change with your mouse. Also, your resistances only drop by 25 and 50 for nightmare 
 and hell levels, so don't think you need those charms to stay alive. Bone necros, hammerdins, FoH'ers, 
 cold or fire sorcs, ww barbs, guided arrow or charged strike zons are the main, competitive builds, 
 but many others are still viable for PvM.
  
  If you ever get bored playing LoD because you think it is easy, give Classic D2 a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoda6000000
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  THis is one of the only games that my computer can run so I love it. I will be playing this game 
 well into the future. that is until I get WoW. Ps: Fingers crosed for Diablo 3!!! Plz Plz Plz Plz 
 Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz 
 Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz 
 Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz 
 Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz 
 Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz 
 Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz 
 Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz 
 Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz 
 Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz 
 Plz Plz Plz Plz Plz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mizrach
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply the best game of its genre. Nothing even comes close. Combine this game with 
 its expansion, and its replay value is unrivaled.
  
  The gameplay is incredibly easy, click on monsters to hack or blow them up. Simple enough. It also 
 has great multiplayer, something that most hack and slash and/or RPG type games lack.
  
  The graphics are rather poor for the year it came out. Other similar types of games such as Baldur's 
 Gate had better graphics and came out 2 years before D2. Also, before the expansion, you could 
 only play in 640x480 resolution.... awful, awful, awful. The expansion added 800x600 which makes 
 the game much more enjoyable.
  
  Sound is fine. Has great music and theres not all that much repetitive voice acting. Sound effects 
 sound great as well.
  
  The value of the game is pretty decent without the expansion. The main thing about this game is 
 the sheer amount of unique items to find. The isn't all that many until the expansion but enough 
 to keep you searching. Also there is 3 difficulties in the game. Normal, Nightmare and Hell. You 
 have to beat the previous difficulty to move on to the next. There is also my personal favorite 
 mode in any game, Hardcore mode. You die, your character is deleted. How much more challenging 
 can you make a game?
  
  I gave the tilt a 10 because, simply put, its the most addictive game i have ever played. I can 
 stop playing the game to go and play a new game for a few weeks/months, but sooner or later i'm 
 back to playing D2 for a few weeks. Any game the can keep calling you back to play it 7 years after 
 its release day is a great game.
  
  If you are going to buy this game, you MUST buy the Lord of Destruction expansion for it. It takes 
 a great game and makes it nearly perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Diablo ll is great RPG that is second in the Diablo series. The game though an RPG like the last 
 one, is really different. Instead of trudging through dungeon after dungeon you are outside a lot 
 more than before. Your main goal is to once again bring down Diablo as one of five different classes. 
 These are Paladin, Necromancer, Sorceress, Amazon, and Barbarian. Each plays very different. The 
 Barbarian focuses on strength and brute force to prevail. But the Necromancer summons countless 
 undead soldiers to fight of Diablo's minions. There are five acts each with a sometimes tough boss 
 at the end. Each has a huge selection of creatures to battle. Probably the best part is the gigantic 
 selection of items. You have your basic types of weapons and armor but then there are others that 
 are upgraded that give you better stats or resistances. Battlenet is back as well so you can complete 
 quests with your buddies and strangers along with duels where you fight to the death with an opponent. 
 Think of it as a free World of Warcraft if you will. So despite some dated graphics there is still 
 much to be found in this very fulfilling RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamez504
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Yet another brilliant game in the series. To be perfectly honest i didnt think this exceeded the 
 pure brilliance and addictive simplicity of Diablo I, but even still i thoroughly enjoyed it. The 
 game is almost a copy of Diablo I really, except the fact that it has a different story different 
 equipment, different maps but best of all, different classes. In Diablo I there were just 3 classes, 
 but now you can summon the dead as a necromancer, cast amazing spells as a sorcerer, brutally kill 
 enemies with your strength with a barbarian, kill your foes from the shadows with an assassin or 
 pick off your enemy at a range with a ranger. In reality Diablo I simply revolutionised gaming 
 for all eternity, and Diablo II just continued with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  overall its an ok game. i got this in a battle cheast. i think the diablo 1 is more fun because 
 its more classic but bad graphic then this. the story is alittle bit boring , its more fun when 
 in online. one of my friend and i kill random people, sometimes, we get killed. its allitle bit 
 like pokemon (only on traviling) but the other, nothing like pokemon. i like this game because 
 you could put armer, swords and sheilds. my favorit race is the druids (the expansion pack) . the 
 dissapointing part of this game is that the graphics suck and the sound to. overall, this game 
 is fun and addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This games is better in every way from the first Diablo. Although they could have shorted the maps 
 and made more lands to cover. With how they have it set up, it is alot of fun, but seeing the same 
 land so much for so long starts to get boring and repetitive. They do a great job of changing up 
 the monsters, that does help playing the game. Customzing your character is alot of fun, changing 
 his armor and weapons and seeing it as changed is really cool. There is way more freedom in this 
 game then in the first were all you do is play in a church that apparently goes to the middle of 
 the earth. I wish they would have made alot more diablo type games.
  
  Single Play: The game is fun and all, but is just not as great playing alone without a team. The 
 items are cool and you don't have to worry about sharing anything with anyone else.
  
  Multi Player: I use to play Diablo 2 when it first came out and noticed people were alot nicer. 
 I would make a room and people with way higher levels then me would just give me things. They were 
 always cool and the items and weapons they have to me seemed like something you wouldn't want to 
 part with. Now people always want something for something and will do anything to get it. I have 
 seen people talk noobs into doing something and killing them for what they have. Although no one 
 is nice anymore and anytime you don't do what someone else wants you are called a noob, it is fun 
 making a room and playing with your friends or seriouse players. So outside of the many kids playing 
 this game now, it is major fun playing online. Much better the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 25, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is once again good not great.. everything gameplay sound and eveything else is good... except 
 the graphics.. the worst thing about this game... but they arent bad! they are fair... voices are 
 pretty good monster names and design, once again graphics are outdated not as good as other blizzard 
 games... slightly better graphics then starcraft.. i value this game a lot because it is part of 
 blizzard.. i would recommend this game to all who like RPGs and and play blizzard games.. well not 
 for people who play blizzard games since most blizzard games are stragety games not RPGs... overall 
 this game is pretty good.. so once again its good not great... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLSWITCH
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 11, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II is definantly a step up from it's predecessor Diablo. The original Diablo was boring 
 and tedious as the player would travel down infinate layers of an evil church that acts as a gateway 
 to hell where a legion of demons pour out onto the earth. Where Diablo II succeeds and the original 
 game fails is freedom. Not only can the player explore inside catacombs or ruined towers, but they 
 can also explore large amounts of land. This breaks up the monotony of exploring the same areas 
 over and over again. 
  The player still collects a large amount of items that are rare or can be attachable to weapons, 
 armor, etc. Typical items known in the diablo series. 
 
  The single player action is alright but I prefer it to be played online with a bunch of friends. 
 Unfortunately I came into the series late where there are games like Wow (World of Warcraft) and 
 Guild Wars already in circulation throughout the PC gaming communities. So of course I'm not going 
 to have high hopes let alone a good score for this game. As was stated, the game is fun but it's 
 better to play with your friends than with yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cakeorrdeath
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  This is one of he most simple and fun games ever. The Graphics are now dated but that does not 
 take away from the point and click style game play. The premise is simple bash your way through 
 hundreds of enemies levelling up your character and finding ever better weapons. It has been done 
 a hundred times since but nothing has ever quite matched Diablos combination of weapons, skills 
 and enemies. If you are ever stuck somewhere with an old laptop or PC just whip this game out and 
 you will wonder why anyone bothered upgrading PCs in the first place.
  Truly ahead of it time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jm4847
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  You have five characters to choose from, the paladin, sorceress, necromancer, amazon and barbarian. 
 The most powerful ones (in my opinion) are the sorceress and the barbarian.
  Unlike Diablo I each character has unique skills that can be learned as you level up (by killing 
 monsters) . The only way you can use another character's skills is with a charged ring or object.
 
  The story takes place a while after the events of Diablo I, your mission is to travel east in 
 order to find Diablo and his brothers (Mephisto and Baal) .
  There are four towns (five if you have the expansion) , each one completely different from the other 
 and with different characters. In each town you'll have two solve six quests. Most of them are 
 relevant to the story but some of them are filler.
  There are houndreds of new objects, which are classified in normal, magic, rare, unique and set.
 
  This game is more enjoyable than Diablo I, you can run and it isn't as dark, which makes it not 
 scary at all, but easier to play. The graphics are OK, but after four years you'd expect something 
 better.
  Diablo II was a great game, but it failed in the graphics area and the plot is a bit unoriginal 
 and predictable, but it's also highly addictive and entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Hunter44
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II is just one of those old games you can never stop enjoying. Most everyone can agree that 
 this game is one of the mighty kings of RPGs! Now its time I write my views on this game, though 
 I urge you to read many of the other reviews as some are better than mine. Story: The story of 
 the game is pretty good, and has its small twists and turns. Its about the return of Diablo, who 
 apparently took possession of the mighty hero in the original Diablo (another good game) . The Lord 
 of Terror, commanding the body of the one person who vanquished him, sets out to free his brothers 
 and ultimately dominate the mortal world. Of course, there are some heroes who don't think thats 
 very nice, and thus starts the beginning of Diablo II. Graphics: The graphics, while old and very 
 out of date (this is true even when it first came out in 2000) , has a certain feel and satisfaction 
 of when you swing that axe. Many people nowadays miss out on this great game just because of the 
 old graphics, and I say nay! This game is more fun than some of the great RPGs in these times. 
 Sound: The sound is very good. Voice actors voice out every single NPC character, and sometimes 
 bosses. The musics pretty nice, and dosen't get on your nerves. The sound of swords clanking, shields 
 banging, and arrows whizzing are all very nicely done as well. Gameplay: Ah yes, the good part. 
 The gameplay in Diablo II is, shall I say, STUPENDOUS! I may be exaggerating a bit, or not... either 
 way it is very fun. Its basically a hack and slash rpg, with interesting quests, npcs, events, 
 monsters, and options. A few things I will note of the gameplay that I believe sticks out from 
 the others are: -
  
  -Hirelings. Have you ever felt like you needed some help in a game, but just cant find it, or have 
 you ever felt like you need a companion? Well the answer is hirelings. They follow you, attack your 
 enemies, and even level up. -Socketed Item. Say goodbye to items where customizations drops to 
 0, and say hello to socketed items! Socketed item allow you to insert gems, skulls, runes, jewels, 
 etc, and gain the bonuses from them. -Bosses. Some of the bosses are so hard you scream, but are 
 nonetheless are cool, and, when you finally manage to kill them, you just wanna scream "WHOOPEEE!", 
 and that was not an exaggeration.
  
  Well, I feel like my review is done, but before I leave, take heed my advice: Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feichi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II, released in 2000, has become one of the most popular online games ever. Major factors 
 that contributed to Diablo II's success include what fans found to be addictive hack and slash 
 gameplay and free access to battle. net. Diablo II may be played as a single player game, multi-player 
 via a LAN, or multi-player via battle. net, with the latter being the most popular. It has also 
 become the 9th best selling computer game and number one best selling RPG for the PC, selling over 
 seven million copies.
  
  The game is simple; you play as one of 7 characters (each with their own unique attributes) and 
 make your way from one dungen to the next fighting monsters and sometimes lesser or prime evils. 
 In the end you have to defeat the one prime evil who has caused problems in the world, Diablo himself. 
 The 5 characters which you can choose at the beginning of the game are the Necomancer (a spell 
 caster who relies on an army of the dead to do his dirty work for him) , the Amazon (a warrior woman 
 with good defensive and offensive skills who excells at using a bow or a spear) , the Paladin (a 
 warrior who fight for all that is good, and who specializes in defensive and offensive auras) , 
 the Sorceress (who focuses on ranged elemental spells in three areas: cold, lightning, and fire) , 
 and the Barbarian (who excells at melee combat and wields an axe) . The expansion pack adds the 
 Druid (who can transform into a werebear or a werewolf and can summon forest creatures) and the 
 Assassin (an excellent martial artist who excels at laying traps) . Having 7 playable characters 
 adds a lot to the replay value of the game. Diablo II starts out at the Rogue encampent. In the 
 forests and catacombs nearby evil demons roam the land. It's your job to get rid of them. The townspeople 
 in the game always have something useful to say. As you progress through the game you will undertake 
 quests given by different townspeople. The main quest in the game is of course to defeat Diablo. 
 Once you've cleansed the land around the Rogue encampment you will progress to the desert city 
 of Lut Gholein. In the game there are 4 levels each with its own city and sorrounding lands inhabited 
 by demons. The expansion pack adds another level. The game begins where its prequel, Diablo, left 
 off. It seems that the hero who defeated Diablo became possessed by the demon. He destroyed the 
 town of Tristram, and began heading to the east in search of his brother Baal (who is another prime 
 evil) . Your hero follows Diablo from one land to the next and onwards into hell where the final 
 confrontation takes place. As you fight and kill demons you will gain experience points and upgrade 
 to highel levels. You'll also gain skill points which you can then use to learn and master a skill 
 of your liking. Each character has a wide variety of skills ranging from magic to combat skills. 
 In addition to gaining skills and experience you'll also be albe to buy or find weapons and armor. 
 Diablo II has a huge selection of weapons and armor. As you equip something it will show in the 
 game. If for example, you equip a bone mask your character will walk around with a bone mask. That 
 applies to all weapons too. The fighting is the usual formula of hack and slash games. You'll fight 
 many many weak demons before you get to the bosses. The game's graphics still hold up very well 
 today. Everything looks good and detailed. Night changes to day and day changes to night. There's 
 rain and shadows too. The spell effects look incredible. The bosses are awe inspiring (especially 
 the three prime evils) . The dungeons are all unique and interesting. The game is aided by quality 
 cinematics which show important turns in the plot. In short, Diablo II offers the best graphics 
 in its genre. Fighting a huge number of enemies and travelling from one dungeon to the next may 
 get tiring after a while. And that's true, it certainly does. But at least you'll want to see what 
 happens next until you finish the game on your first try. After that it's up to you if you want 
 to continue with a harder mode or if you want to play another character. However, the game's many 
 quests and plot turns will keep you interested and even addicted. Diablo II is one of the best 
 games from Blizzard Entertainment. If you don't own it already I would advise to buy it for your 
 PC. It will probably take you about 40 hours to finish it on your first try. Battle. net offers 
 an online community of players who aid each other (or steal from one another) in the game. It's 
 a great way to play with others (including your friends) , and it's simple to get online and start 
 playing. My advice is to buy the Diablo Battle Chest that includes Diablo II, the Lord Of Destruction 
 expansion pack, the original Diablo, several manuals, and the official strategy guide. I should 
 mention that the Lord Of Destruction expansion pack is a must-have for those who want to play Daiblo 
 II. It improves upon many things in the game like graphics and items. It also adds another level 
 with several interesting quests and its own prime evil, Baal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiitzme
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 26, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Although the graphics are outdated for 2000, that doesn't take away from the gameplay, which is 
 truly amazing. I have been gaming since I was 4, and I must say Diablo II has worked it's way up 
 to my "Top Games of All Time" list, as well as the first game that I bought less than a day after 
 playing the demo. It probably comes as a shock, that any gamer hasn't played this classic up until 
 now but it's true. Ah well into the actual review.
  
  You can choose from up to five different classes including barbarians, amazons, necromancers, paladins, 
 and sorceresses, all wielding different weapons and hauling different armor types. Alongside the 
 singleplayer, there is multiplayer, on one of my favorites servers from Warcraft III, battle. net. 
 You can create and develop your character in singleplayer and multiplayer mode which, from my knowledge 
 intertwines to make some of the more challenging quests easier, or just to get together with some 
 friends and bash in some zombie skulls!
  
  Although this is based off Diablo (hence the "2" following Diablo :P) , I haven't actually played 
 a single chapter of Diablo, and Although I may be missing some important story elements about who 
 the heck Diablo actually IS, besides a demon, I find Diablo 2 very satisfying. Diablo 2 is a very 
 replayable game, and I have played the first two quests countless times beyond 20 in the last few 
 days. Overall this game is an amazing future addition to my game collection, and worth a download 
 by anyone who hasn't already played it before.
  
  (My review is based off the Diablo II demo which I have played for well over 30 hours) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marshalldbdx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 25, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  even though this game isnt the best looking game for its time it still deserves credit for its 
 great gameplay and adventure. This games is a easy hack and slash game that anyone will enjoy many 
 games even copy ideas from them. this game is great for any one who likes adventure. The game also 
 has a beutiful online multi player which allows u to play with friends making the game twice as 
 fun. But the only thing this game lacks is a good look i mean really u can see the little squares 
 around them called pixles i think. but it has great big envirements and a sweet load of monsters 
 u can battle to raise your exp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  When Diablo burst on shelves in 1996, RPG games couldn't help but love the game. It had a formula 
 to it that they just love. It was so simple yet addicting, killing hellish figures on your way 
 to kill on Diablo, the Lord of Terror. Now, four years after it was released, Blizzard released 
 Diablo II. Though it did has dated graphics for its time, Diablo II sill manages to keep the fun 
 formula that RPG gamers loved about the 1996 award winning game Diablo, with a fun game, and an 
 interesting storyline that RPG gamers love.
  
  Diablo II takes place months after the original Diablo. The Warrior who killed Diablo thought that 
 the only way to control Diablo, was to stick the soulstone of Diablo in his forehead. Little did 
 he know that this was what Diablo wanted him to do. Now, Diablo journeys east to free his brothers, 
 Mephisto and Baal. You now control a character that must pursue Diablo, and put an end to this.
 
  
  In Diablo II, there are many things different about Diablo II than the original Diablo. There are 
 now five characters:
  
  The Amazon is a character for those who love to use range weapons. She can use bows and crossbows 
 to wipe out all of her enemies. Not only that, but she is the master of throwing javelins and spears. 
 Thus meaning that she is not only superb at range, but is also good at hand to hand combat. This 
 takes her one step above the Rogue.
  
  The Necromancer takes control of what is already dead. He can use curses and spawn Skeleton Warriors 
 and Mages, plus Golems. He can also master the bone and poison magic skills.
  
  The Barbarian is the hack and slash character of the game. He can arm himself with deadly axes, 
 heaves swords, bone crushing mauls and sizable armour, thus making him a killing machine. He can 
 also carry two one armed weapons at once, thus making him one step above the Warrior.
  
  The Paladin is a holy and blessed warrior. He can use auras that make him and other party members 
 more powerful, which makes him arguably the most important multiplayer character in the game. He 
 also has combat moves, especially those to kill the undead. He also has skills that heal himself.
 
  
  The Sorceress is all about magic. She throws hot fire, zapping lightning, and freezing ice moves 
 to kill her enemies. She uses staffs to make her moves better, and she can also use a special type 
 of wand that is not too common in the game, so she gains magical properties from it and also can 
 carry a shield while doing that, making her more powerful than the Sorcerer from Diablo.
  
  You can also fight in an outdoors setting for much of the game, from the countryside, the scorching 
 desert, and the jungles. Though this may sound nice, I find that the creepy horror from the original 
 Diablo just isnt there anymore. Nevertheless, it is still a great new addition.
  Also, unlike the first Diablo, there are four acts. The acts all have different settings in them 
 as well as different storylines. This makes the game longer and a better storyline than Diablo. 
 This is also a new great feature.
  
  Now on to the actual game. You control one of five different characters which must kill monsters, 
 collect different items, do quests and many other things on his or her way to kill Diablo, the 
 Lord of Terror. This game has so much to it, either in single or multiplayer. This give the game 
 so much value to it. Not only that, but you can do many different approaches to the game with different 
 characters. I highly recommend buying it if you have a soft heart for old video games with fair 
 graphics even for its time.
  
  Now Ill finally move on the basics. First Ill talk about the gameplay. The gameplay is so simple 
 again yet fun, that this must have high marks. However, it would've been nice to have some side-missions 
 that are optional appearing everywhere around the game, with varied awards to make the game more 
 random and replayable.
  
  The graphics arent so great. The characters look animated and 2D. When you look closely at a character, 
 you will notice the lack of faces. While that may be unsurprising during the game's time, it certainly 
 does lack detail in the character. Most of game's landscapes also don't have a lot of detail. Also, 
 some places like the desert in Act II are too bright, while many other area
  
  The sound isnt overly great, but is still not bad. You may notice a lack of sound effects in the 
 game. The sounds of weapons, don't really stick in your mind. Also, most of the game's soundtracks 
 could've been much better. However, some of the sounds of spells, such as Diablo's spells, and 
 the Soreoress' spells do sound cool, and aren't that bad.
  
  I also have to say that there is so much replay value to this game because of how random it is. 
 The maps in the game always randomly change after a new character is created. Not only that, but 
 in Nightmare and Hell difficulties, they always regenerate.
  
  Not only is there a great single player mode, but the multiplayer mode is also awesome. You can 
 play with up to eight different people with a character, and do the missions of single player. 
 This great multiplayer makes the game have more value to it than most RPG games.
  
  I should also give Blizzard a hand for making a great multiplayer experience to all Blizzard games. 
 Battle. net is easily the best multiplayer experience for any game I ever played. It is so simple 
 to get into, as other games with multiplayer I dont know how to get in. I wish all games had a 
 multiplayer system like Battle. net.
  
  I must in conclusion say that, if you loved the original Diablo or RPG games in general, that you 
 must own a copy of Diablo II if you can respect an old game. Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Even six years after its release Diablo 2 is still a class game, alone and online. What makes Blizzard 
 so succesfull is Blizzards "Battle. Net" feature that they normally include in most of their games 
 which allows you to freely access Diablo 2 multiplayer. The huge worlds are outstanding, if you 
 didnt hae "Town Portal" scrolls you would probably get lost. You also get "Waypoints", which are 
 like moongates if you'e played Ultima online. "Waypoints are scattered in every region. You are 
 given five character classes:
  Amazon: The woman type barbarian yet less bulky. She is more of a person to use spears, Javelins 
 and bows as her main types of weapons.
  Sorceress: A very powerful character once gained most of her skills. She is easier to play as that 
 a Necromancer but relies on her magic more than her weapons. 
  Necromancer: Relies mostly on magic and wands. He can summon unholy creatures to aid you in battle. 
 He is not the easiest character to play as but becomes mighty powerful as he progresses. 
  Paladin: One of the first character that you should play as. With these sort of characters any 
 type of weapon suits so its up to you really. Your magic is based on Aura types of magic and surround 
 spells that aid you and friends in your warparty.
  Barbarian: Not one to be using daggers now! This guy likes to play with big things (Ahem) and is 
 recommended you play as this character or a Paladin first as these are the easiest.
  
  You can if you wish be any character you wish to start as but it is recommended you use the Barbarian 
 or the Paladin as your first choice!
  
  You start off in a rouge encampment trying to aid the camp by doing the occasional kill this, find 
 that jobs. The more you play through the game the more complex missions get!
  The graphics of course maybe out-dated (Think of Ultima online 2-D type graphics) . Although there 
 is a 3-D feature all it does is change the type of look of the world which gives off the look like 
 the world is actually 3-D. Yet the Cut-scenes are stunningly detailed. Some of the scenes are just 
 as violent as the game. And yes the game is violent. Its not like Punisher violent (As in brutal 
 violence) but it is quite nasty at times. Each character has their own unique way of dying. 
  The sounds are quite fantastic... once again each character has their own unique sound which are 
 like casual sounds if you have not been noticed, attacking sounds like when your bashing them about 
 and finally their death sounds.
  The game gets more difficult with time as you sort of need to improve levels before you start. 
 Its not a game you could rush through... considering the game changes every new time you play. 
 I hate it when people brag how quickly they complete a game.
  
  Overall the game is very addictive for those who like destroying demonic forces.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franknight
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is the sequel of the role-playing action game named Diablo.
  In the end of the first game (ending sequence) it is told that the hero that defeated Diablo took 
 the soulstone of Diablo and put it in his forehead so to contain the Demon. The hero traveled to 
 the lands of the far east. This game retakes the story where it was left. The Demon which was contained 
 in the soulstone was too strong for the soul of the hero to bear it, the Demon consumed him and 
 took control of his body. Now Diablo is in a conquest to free his two brothers: Baal and Mephisto. 
 Diablo is reuniting with his brothers so to conquer the earth realm. The earth realm is a place 
 where the battle of Light and Darkness continues. Diablo wants to conquer the earth realm. And 
 Diablo knows that only with his brothers will He be able to open the door to Hell and so on to 
 bring forth Hell upon the world. You the great hero (you can choose between the following characters 
 -paladin, sorceress, barbarian, necromancer, amazon-) are bound to stop the darkness that lurks 
 the earth again. Will you stop Diablo's plans to conquer the earth realm?
  
  
  I have played this game with many of the characters and it is cool. The movies contained in the 
 game are awesome (better if you have a plasma monitor) . And the Battlenet. experience (over the 
 internet) is overwhelming. I advice experienced gamers to play it on the net (it is much better 
 and the experience is more everlasting) . For beginners I advice singleplayer until you get to level 
 10. I also advice to read the manual (even for advanced gamers because it contains very useful tips) . 
 The manual is great and as the manual of Diablo it contains great graphics and such. It is a great 
 thing to collect the two manuals (the stories in them are quite interesting) . The game is a bit 
 spooky when you face the great evils and the lesser evils (Diablo, Mephisto, Andariel, Duriel) , 
 and the quests are very interesting. The amount of items you can gather is immense. So on the possibilities 
 for the character's buildup is much greater than in Diablo. Blessed be the Light!
  
  This game is a must have for any pc gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 13, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  As much as I loved Diablo, I loved Diablo 2. The cinematic cutscenes were awesome and the storyline 
 was really fleshed out well. Diablo 2 had the same things going for it that Diablo did with one 
 major difference. It became more complicated with the new characters and progression possibilities. 
 But I think its a testament to Blizzard that I didn't find it all that difficult to follow.
  
  The improvement in battle. nets network really added some extra life to this title and the ending 
 simply left you feeling there was going to be an expansion. And of course there was.
  
  Great game that if I still owned I would probably be playing still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Shake123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is still to date one of the most played games over battle. net (not counting WOW) . The 
 game features battl. net party play, allowing you and up to 7 other people to play the campaign. 
 I have owned this game for a while now, and I have never played the game in single player. Why 
 would you want to, when you can play the same campaign with 7 others??
  
  Storyline- The Diablo 2 storyline (without spoiling anything) is basically you, the hero, following 
 Diablo and his tagalong throughout the world.
  
  Game play- The game consists of 4 Acts, each act is a different location. Each act has 6 missions 
 (with the exception of the 4th act, with only 3 missions) . The missions are usually not too hard, 
 but they do get much more challenging later in the game. There are 3 difficulty levels: Normal, 
 Nightmare, and Hell. In each difficulty level, enemies have different stats. In Normal mode, enemies 
 will have a lower defense, and a lower overall level. In Hell, they will have a much higher level. 
 This makes the enemies closer to the player.
  
  Character classes- There are 5 character classes in Diablo 2. They are: The Amazon (great with 
 spears and bows) , The Necromancer (summons dead demons to fight along side of him) , The Paladin 
 (Warrior that fights with magic and weapon) , The Sorceress (Magic attacks with staff) , and The 
 Barbarian (strong, tough, fierce)
  
  Multiplayer- On battle. net you can play with others from around the world. You can have up to 8 
 people in a party, but if there are 8 people in a server, and you only want to play with 1 other, 
 or 7 others, you can do that too. Parties make for team play. The more people in a server the stronger 
 the enemies. If you are in a party, you share the experience with everyone in your party. So there 
 are advantages and disadvantages to playing in a party.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are a little behind for a game released in 2000. But it does not take away 
 from the game.
  
  Sound- In my opinion, the sound is great. Magic attacks sound crisp and clean, and deaths sound 
 bloody! 
  
  Overall- This game is amazing. Built for HOURS of game play at a time!!! 9.3 out of 10. I hope 
 to see you on Battle. net
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonathongs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best game i've played because it was the first actual PC game that i liked 
 and i played it when i was just 7 =p. Except it was on singleplayer until a year later. If your 
 not allowed on the internet i suggest you not to get this otherwise it would get boring pretty 
 quickly. I'm bored of it now cos i've played it for 5 years now and finished all the quests on 
 all the characters. Anyways stilla great game =p Graphics may look **** now but they were pretty 
 good in the old days. This game inspired me to other games so it 0wnz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunnie91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  The first Diablo was fun, but Diablo 2 got even more fun. With new levels, more game, (hours of 
 playing the game) , and great multiplayer/online, this game is probably the second game you should 
 have in you PC game collection. It is worth playing, worth the money, and worth you getting in 
 trouble if you are not allowed to play it. Although graphics are still not the best, you should 
 not care. This game is awesome! And lets not forget. Online play is free and more addicting than 
 most online video games, especially the dumb ones you pay money for to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital-Devil
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I got this game a good while ago after hearing all the hype on it, and kinda am disapointed to 
 say that it didn't live up to it
  The online mode is really fun, but to me atleast it lacks a good story for single player
  It 
 isn't bad in anyway shape or form... just not as good as say... NeverWinter Nights
  Diablo 2 seemed to be missing a few things... more classes would have made it alot better
  The 
 power to design their look atleast a little (hair/skin type/color would have been nice)
  But that isn't really enough to make this game anything less than great
  I just wish it was as 
 good as other Blizzard titles... such as WarCraft games
  I hope this isn't Blizzards last Diablo game because they did something very right... just not as 
 good as they could have done 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II is the sequel to the highly anticipated sequel to the fantastic game Diablo by the software 
 wizards at Blizzard Entertainment. The game consists of three CD's, one for installation, one for 
 game play, and a final one with cinematics. A very detailed instruction manual is also included 
 which includes many of the enemies, weapons, and upgrades available throughout the game. 
  Make no mistake about it, there aren't any puzzles to solve or riddles to answer. The purpose of 
 this game is to kill everything in sight, plain and simple, and there's ample amounts to be killed. 
 Don't assume that this is a simple shoot 'em up game though. There are many different lands to 
 explore and many caves, and secrets to be found. It is not a game that'll be beaten in a week. 
 Your characters always starts off in what is called a town. Towns are basically bases that are 
 scattered throughout the game. Monsters and enemies are not able to enter in towns, and the only 
 people in towns are friendly NPC's (non playing characters) which offer council. 
  Game Controls
  Game controls are pretty simple. The mouse is the key for this game, it controls 
 all the actions. Left click is used to tell your character where to go, who to attack, and what 
 to pick up. The screen is arranged so that the game is displayed in the upper part of the screen, 
 while a menu at the bottom displays character information. There is a red circle on the left which 
 shows life and a blue circle on the right which shows the character's energy. In between are the 
 character's action icons which are used to direct fighting, running, walking, etc. Below that is 
 the mini-panel which brings up menus such as weapons inventory, skill tree, and character attributes. 
 Finally the experience bar is one of the most important facets of the game. As you kill more monsters, 
 your characters experience fills up, and then starts over, the more points your character achieves 
 the better it will be throughout the game. 
  Skill Tree
  The skill tree is probably the most interesting facet of the game. The more experience your character 
 achieves, the more skill points he receives. Bringing up the skill tree displays the skills available 
 to your character. In order to develop a certain skill, you assign points to it; and the more points 
 a skill has the more it has. This allows the game play to be different each time, by choosing different 
 skills to emphasize you will eventually fine tune your character to be the most efficient for a 
 given situation. 
  Game Play
  As mentioned before, it's kill or be killed with this game. There are tons of enemies everywhere 
 and it's easy to get in over your head if you're not careful. When you die, your corpse is marked 
 on the map, and you can return to save all your items and gold, but will have to fight your way 
 through the monsters. However, the game does have a feature where if you exit the game after death, 
 your body will be broght to the town you begin at but without the gold. My biggest problem with 
 game play is that even after you kill the monsters in an area and die, they ALL magically return 
 and have to be killed again - redundant. Luckily the game saves periodically so it's not essential 
 to save every other step. The artificial intelligence of the enemies is decent, but nothing extraordinary. 
 
  
  Graphically, I have very mixed emotions about this subject. On one hand, the lighting, details, 
 and graphics of buildings, landscapes, and inanimate object are crystal clear, some of the best 
 I've ever seen. The characters and enemies however are a major disappointment. I can't tell any 
 difference between this game and the original in terms of the details. The look a little fuzzy 
 and blurred, nowhere near as sharp as their environment. I was kind of disappointed considering 
 how long the game was in development for.
  
  This is a good game for fans of the original. It is everything I expected in terms of game play 
 and action. The graphics can be breathtaking and leave a lot to be desired all in the same frame, 
 but hopefully that'll be ironed out in Diablo III. Before playing the game, be sure to check Blizzard's 
 website for patches though. The game as a whole has been pretty stable for me, I've installed two 
 patches so far, and haven't had any crashes during play. The game is available for play over Blizzard's 
 Battle. net when it was first introduced Blizzard vastly underestimated the number of users who 
 wanted to use it, and the servers were crashing every three seconds. The problem has since been 
 "fixed," but it's still play at your own risk. Multi player does enhance the fun of the game because 
 teaming up with other players to accomplish a task makes the game move much quicker than it normally 
 would. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepper8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 15, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has excellent game play, with tons of great quests and challenging bosses. There is a 
 great number of enemies all native to certain areas of the diablo 2 world. You can hire mercenaries 
 and teleport to different parts of the world. There is a great deal of items, weapons and armour. 
 There is five creative classes which have there own specialties and skills. The character building 
 is amazing. It makes so that even if you are the same character class as someone else you can still 
 be completely different. Goods: awesome game play, great sound, creative classes and skills, good 
 multi player, you get a lot for your money.
  
  Bad: not good graphics for it's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oni_black
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  very fun stroyline keeps ongoing from the first game of the series. One of the best roleplaying 
 games ever. 
  this is an awesome game very fun . never gets boring keeps u wanting to play. full of adventure 
 and action. has such a big adrenaline rush its crazy. keeps u on the edge of ur seat. it keeps 
 me from wanting to sleep because of it bieng full of fun. very cool storyline has more characters 
 with more skills to learn and use. has five acts with lots of fun long and some short quest to 
 do to complete a quest. very fun to fight in last quest of an act always has a lot of monsters 
 to kill and ends with a tough uniqe monster to kill. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth01
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  The good: Plenty of value; great online experience; constant updates; does everything a hack and 
 slash RPG needs to; great variety of characters.
  
  The bad: Playing offline doesnt feel right; graphics are dated; quests arent very interesting; 
 not enough sound; way to much lag.
  
  These days Blizzard is best know as the company the created the ridiculously popular World of Warcraft 
 and the much anticipated expansion The Burning Crusades. Nevertheless, this isnt the first time 
 that Blizzard has had success with an action RPG. Back in 1996 Blizzard released Diablo, a hack-and-slash 
 RPG that won over fans and critics alike. With the success of Diablo, many awaited some kind of 
 sequel and in 2000, the wait was over with Diablo II hitting stores. 
  
  The story of Diablo II takes place shortly after Diablo I ends. The hero that had defeated Diablo 
 in the first game has been taken over by the Lord of Hell himself and hes off on a journey to 
 free his brothers so that he can bring the world into darkness once again. Its your duty to keep 
 after the trail of destruction and depression, so that you can kill Diablo before he frees his 
 brothers. 
  
  If youre one of the many people that played the original Diablo, Diablo II will be very familiar 
 to you. Diablo II doesnt in any sense of the word revolutionise what hack-and-slash RPG should 
 be, but what it does do is expand and improve on many of the features that Diablo I was so famous 
 for and add a few things along the way as well. 
  
  Before you go off and save the world from the doom of Diablo, youll have to pick a character for 
 the journey. There are five characters to choose from and at least one will satisfy your playing 
 style. The five characters are The Amazon, The Paladin, The Sorceress, The Barbarian and The Necromancer. 
 Unfortunately, there is no character customization what so ever in the game, it would have been 
 a good idea for Blizzard to at least include a male and female version of each character. When 
 you first start playing every character will more or else feel the same, the Barbarian will be 
 slower and the Amazon will feel faster, but the way you play the character will be the same all 
 around. 
  
  This is true for about the first four levels of your character, but as you move forward in the 
 story and level your character up, youll find that each has their strengths and weakness. For 
 example, the Sorceress will die quickly if shes ambushed, but her high magic points allow her 
 to use her magic skills to take out the enemy from far away. Slowly youll find that every character 
 is unique in its own way from the type of skills each character has, to what attributes are increased 
 each level, to the strategy you should use to beat the enemy both with a team online and on your 
 own offline. 
  
  Two different things determine your characters strengths and weaknesses: attributes and the Skill 
 Tree. Attributes are separated into four different categories that affect the character in some 
 way. Strength increases damage; Dexterity increase chance of hitting an enemy and decreases the 
 chance of an enemy hitting you; Vitality increases health and stamina and lastly Energy increases 
 magic points (mana) . Every character starts with a set number of allocated points in each category 
 respective to the way the character should be played. Furthermore, for every level that a character 
 gains more points are added to certain categories, which category is dependent on their class. 
 When a character levels up he/she also receives five attribute points that the player can allocate 
 as they please. 
  
  During every level increase, a character also receives one skill point that the player can choice 
 to add into the Skill Tree. The Skill Tree is divided into three categories with ten skills in 
 each. Every skill in a particular category has a common theme represented by the name of the category. 
 The skills are separated into six rows that determine what level a character must be to use a particular 
 skill. Every six levels more rows open up until level thirty, then all the rows are available. 
 Furthermore the skills are connected, meaning that some skills will require you to allocate skill 
 points into past skills for you to use newer ones. On the other hand, past skills often increase 
 the power of newer skills, so there is a balance in the system. Although the Skill Tree may seem 
 confusing once its in front of you, its far less intimidating. Diablo II does a great job in 
 explaining what each skill does and showing what kind of power it holds, of course to really understand 
 the skill the best way is to try it out for yourself.
  
  The entire game is separated into four Acts; each act takes place in a different city/town with 
 its own look and feel. Youll always be a few steps behind Diablo and through the process of quests, 
 youll hope for a chance to minimize that gap. Each Act has six Quests except for the fourth one 
 which has only three. The Quests arent particularly interesting, they all require you to gets 
 past tons of enemies, then kill a special monster in some way and maybe take an item from a special 
 room, but its the rewards that make the Quests so worthwhile. Extra skill points and Attributes 
 are so hard to get later in the game that when a Quest offers some free, its hard to turn them 
 down. It still would have been a nice addition if Diablo II added some variety to the gameplay. 
 Hacking and slashing past hordes of enemies is fun, but it does get boring from time to time. 
 
  
  Even though the task of killing the Lord of Hell is a monumental one, Blizzard was kind enough 
 to aid you in a number of ways. The weapon and armour variety in Diablo II is simply fantastic. 
 The game provides a number of weapon classes such as swords, axes, maces, pole arms, throwing weapons, 
 bows and so on and so forth. A massive prefix and suffix system that adds random abilities to many 
 of the weapons and armour youll find on the field adds value to items that might normally be useless. 
 There are also special set items that work together with each other to become stronger. Lastly, 
 a fussing system is introduced half way through the game allowing you to combine different items 
 to create a completely different item. The possibilities of the item system is impressive and it 
 provide a great deal of replay value all on its own, youll often find yourself spending hours 
 just trying to figure out which items to keep, which to improve and which to sell. 
  
  Blizzard is definitely a company that listens to its audience and with that said some improvements 
 have been made to the other shell gameplay. A stamina meter has been added for much faster moment, 
 which the original Diablo lacked. The world that you travel in is much larger and walking the whole 
 way would have been ridicules. A stash system allows players to store items into a box that only 
 they can use. For those that played the original Diablo the stash maybe a disappointment, since 
 now items on the ground are deleted when a player leaves, but the stash system works much better 
 online and also provide some strategy since not all items can be kept. Lastly, for those that dont 
 want to play with others, but still want to receive help, Hirelings have been added into both online 
 and offline modes. There are three different hirelings available and it will be up to the player 
 to decide which is best for them.
  
  It seems that for Blizzard to build this massive game, they had to sacrifice graphics, which in 
 one word is disappointing. The world has a low quality look to it, but there is variety in the 
 game, which in some way saves the day. There are plenty of different world that youll travel through; 
 jungles, sewers, deserts are just some of the places that youll visit. There isnt much variety 
 in the world themselves, youll often see the same trees repeatedly, but as soon as you get bored 
 of a world, the next one seems to pop up. It also helps that almost all the maps you play through 
 are generated when you enter a game, meaning that you wont see the same map very often. The look 
 of your character and the characters around him/her is low quality as well, but once again, there 
 is variety in the look of the weapons and armour that you wear, so it all does balance out a little. 
 There doesnt seem to be much in terms of animations, but some of the more powerful skills look 
 amazing especially when three or more are used at the same time. The inexcusable thing with Diablo 
 II is the lag online, which is horrendous. Its expected to have some lag since the online is free, 
 but the lag is just so bad sometimes youll want through things. There will be times when you cant 
 enter games because theres too much lag, get kicked out because of lag or die because of lag. 
 
  
  The sound in the game can be explained in quality over quantity. You wont find much variety in 
 terms of sound in the game, but that stuff that is present is top of the line. Many monster sound 
 alike, in life and death and your character doesnt have much to say either, but having all the 
 dialogue in the game spoken gives it a few points in the sound department. 
  
  Overall, the game features plenty of things to do even after you beat the game once. Five playable 
 characters that all have a unique gameplay to them, three difficulty settings, a hardcore mode 
 that makes your characters death permanent, an online and offline mode, tons of items to find and 
 lastly a Blizzard team that continues to update the game with patches that improve gameplay and 
 sometimes even add new quests. 
  
  Although the online and offline modes are exactly the same the online mode is a much more entertaining 
 and fulfilling experience then the offline mode is. There are a number of reasons for this, one 
 being that its just for fun to play with others, but the major reason is the Diablo is most fun 
 on normal (nightmare) mode and hard (Hell) mode and at the same time its incredibly difficult 
 during those times. Really, the decision comes down to three Questions. Do I like the idea of hacking 
 and slashing through tons and tons of enemies? Do I want to play online? Do I have a good enough 
 internet connection to be able to play online? If you can answer yes to all three questions then 
 by all means, buy Diablo II, youll love it, but if you cant then Diablo II will not fulfill your 
 expectations and will leave you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwjbd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  this is an awesome game very fun . never gets boring keeps u wanting to play. full of adventure 
 and action. has such a big adrenaline rush its crazy. keeps u on the edge of ur seat. it keeps 
 me from wanting to sleep because of it bieng full of fun. very cool storyline has more characters 
 with more skills to learn and use. has five acts with lots of fun long and some short quest to 
 do to complete a quest. very fun to fight in last quest of an act always has a lot of monsters 
 to kill and ends with a tough uniqe monster to kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gidthekid56
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game, i played it at a friend's house this one time and got hooked, i biked 1 hour 
 everyday to get to my friends house to play it for about 4 hours and biked back. I spend my whole 
 summer like that about 3 years ago. After the summer i HAD to buy my own game and i did, playing 
 it online give it a whole new experience, i couldn't believe how much fun i had playing it. I made 
 lots of friends pretty fast, but like they say "all good things must come to an end". My friends 
 thought it'd be funny to delete the game off my computer and so when i went to play it was gone, 
 and i looked and looked for the cd-key but couldn't find it, even now from time to time i look 
 around to see if i could find the cd-key, i thought of buying a new game but newer games are just 
 coming out too fast and i try to keep up with the new games therefore i don't got money to spend 
 on this game. But i really recommend anyone that read this to BUY THIS GAME (AND KEEP YOUR CD-KEY) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JestaDude
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is over six years old and is still a top seller for the PC. With free online multiplayer 
 in the same aspect of a standard MMO, and very little system requirements, this game is for anyone 
 looking for a great action roleplay game!
  
  Fans of the first Diablo rejoice! Everyone else, join in! The game itself comes with several different 
 cliche character classes and a tree style level up and ability system. All of the map layouts are 
 randomly generated from the beginning and the action is simple point and click. The town you start 
 in acts as a resting point and hold a nice big chest for the extra spoils you can't fair to take 
 with you. Diablo II is very easy to get into, even if you have never played the original.
  
  The game gets very dark as you progress through a story line that takes you from vast deserts 
 to tribal swamps. Each time you progress to a new environment (a new Act) , you are treated with 
 a nicely done and not to short cinematic. These scenes are well narrated and get more intriguing 
 as time goes on. 
  
  The perk of this game is the multiplayer. You have two choices. You could either play the character 
 you have from the single player on a cheat-allowed server, or you could create a completely new 
 character exclusively for multiplayer on a cheat and hack-free server. Plus, when you log on to 
 the multiplayer, it will automatically download updates directly from the home site. These updates 
 include everything from anti-hacking codes to prevent people from messing up your character, to 
 completely new content for use in both singe and multiplayer modes. A quick example of new content 
 includes Runes. Along with gems that you find throughout the game to add powerups to weapons with 
 sockets in them, Runes add abilities or stat bonus's. Plus, some combinations of Runes (known as 
 Rune words) add super charged power bonus's! Another quick example too is an option that is added 
 to your setting options that allows you to toggle between a 2-D and 3-D look!
  
  With all that said, go buy Diablo 2. It's worth the money honestly and if you happen to spot the 
 pack that includes both the game and the expansion, get that instead. Check out my review on the 
 expansion if you please. It's not really necessary, since I can tell you now that the expansion 
 is awesome as well!
  
  Thats about it for this game. I hope you have as much fun with it as I have had. Thanks for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redjack443
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is legendary. It consists of walking around, killing monsters, finding fancier 
 and shinier items and making new and better items with the Horadric Cube. It's very simple, very 
 addictive and it works like a charm. There is a nice, usable UI and a lot of variety.
  
  Graphics: They aren't great, but they're not bad either. I think they look just as good as they 
 need to. The CGI movies are stunning, even according to today's standards.
  
  Sound: The musical score is good. It definitely sets the mood. For some reason, the sounds of a 
 monsters death never gets repetitive.
  
  Replay: Diablo is the game that keeps on playing. You can play it endlessly by trying to find that 
 one item or playing it with a different class.
  
  Conclusion: Diablo 2 is one of the best games of all time. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matsonpp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  From the moment you kill your first monster this game gets extremely addictive. Quick leveling 
 up in the beginning, new armour, weapons, and wicked quests to boot. The satisfaction of actually 
 "beating" something is something lacking in other games. Three levels of difficulty and 4 huge 
 acts will have you playing for hours, TENS-100's of hours. Online play makes the great even greater. 
 The ability to party and share experience makes leveling faster than ever. And don't worry about 
 the monsters being too easy, more gamers means harder monsters. It all evens out.
  
  Have fun guys, this game is the bomb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catistrophic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  The sequel to one of the best PC games out there, Diablo II spawns its new roots with a great story, 
 new character classes, new weapons and armor sets, newer spells, and harder bosses. The gameplay 
 of this game is revolutionary and offers hard areas to fight in and bosses that want you dead ASAP. 
 The sounds of this game are of a gothic touch, screams, flames, and other sounds of doom are heard 
 throughout the entire game. The graphics are of a classic dark look, the areas always have a murky 
 cave or dark swamps and forests. For graphics of its time they were pretty good. The game is really 
 difficult to newcomers of the series, but veterans of the original will feel right at home. The 
 world of Diablo is a huge world to explore, there will be quests and many objectives to complete 
 to proceed to the next area. All in all, this game is a wonderful piece to any gamer's collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sysypizza
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Just look at the scores and reviews below!
  dfhakl dfhasdklfh sdfkhasdkfh sdfk hasdfkh sdlajkfhasdkfh khdfkdhf jfjh jk jk j jkj jkj jkj jkj 
 kjkj kj kl j j j jj jj jj jj jj oo oo oo oo oo o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o w e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e, had to be 100 words, b b 
 b b b b b b b b b b b b b b 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I playd this game back when i was in 6th grade and playd it all the way to 8th grade. Well now 
 im a junior and decided to pick it up agine and man is it sweet. The game is about a man in prison 
 telling the tale of how Diable returned and was defeated by a brave adventureer to a cloakd man 
 that comes to his cell. I wont ruin any plot points but the ending is shocking.
  
  Graphics are bleh they arnt the best graphics infct no where near it. One big problem there is 
 no way to adjust the camera so your stuck with this overhead view from the same angle no matter 
 what. One nice feature is depent upon what calss you are and what armor your wearing your character 
 will look different. You can change the color of your armor even if you come across a socketed 
 item then place a gem in it and not only do your stats increase the armor will go the color of 
 the gem. Enmy character models are recycled alot and you will see alot of the same creature just 
 maybe the color will be different.
  
  Sound isnt bad but it isnt the best once agine. The voice acting is pretty good and all characters 
 have voice overs so you dont have to read what there saying tho you can. Sound effects are solid 
 but you find that some of them are recycled alot for different spells and characters. 
  
  Gameplay is where this game blows all others away. Character management is very well done with 
 the fact you can fully customize what abilities you have and equiptment you wear. Inventory space 
 is limited so your gonna want to keep it open incase a rare item drops. Luckily there is a secret 
 stash that only you can access. If you die any gold your carrying will fall next your body which 
 onlinine is bad so make sure you put your gold in your stash whenever your in town. Combat is a 
 simple clikc on enemy and hold your guy will proceed to swing rapidly at him of course you can 
 set certain abilities to the right mouse button and the left mouse button. There are 5 class's 
 to choose from Amazon (long ranged combat) , Barbarian (close up damage dealer) , Necromancer (can 
 summon armies of skeletons and golems to fight for him) , Paladin (melle combat with auras to help 
 your party) , Sorceress (long ranged magic spells and novas) . Each class has a premade sex that 
 you cant change so your stuck with females for Amazon and Sorceress as well as stuck male for the 
 others. Online play is the best part of the game allowing you to team up with up to 6 people and 
 going through the story together or duel each other.
  
  Overall this game is excellent with great replay value and a engrossing story. If you can overlook 
 its technical problem this game is a must have for any RPg fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Letitia
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Wow, looking back to 2001, this game is so addictive it isn't funny. I had finished the normal 
 campaign a few times, because each character plays so differently and it's really a whole new experience. 
 Then I continued playing it for like 10 hours a day after rediscovering it on Battlenet multiplayer 
 mode.
  
  IThe game's strength lies in its characters and the well-designed skill system. Every character, 
 every skill tree and every skill are different, and every time you level up is a cause for celebration 
 (and not just because of the gameshow-esque 'thunk' sound) . There are so many builds for each character, 
 as can be seen from the once-bustling forums discussing strategies e. g. the Amazon has separate 
 trees for bow skills, javelin and spear skills so you get Bowazons, Javazons and Ice Maidens (specialising 
 in the Frozen Arrow skill) . I myself must have played at least half a dozen Sorceresses (Blaze 
 & Thunderstorm, Nova, Hydra and Frozen Orb back before they nerfed it.)
  
  Haha oops lapsing back into the memories... of having no life but Diablo II. Unfortunately, the 
 linear storyline, repetitive quests and little character growth make me look back and think, man 
 I'm never going near that game again. I've wasted enough time on it as it is. This review has brought 
 me closure!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taxy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  this game is superb, just the right game for any starter or a avid diablo player, well packaged, 
 and excellent gameplay value, worth the wait . all the monsters and the items, armours, jewels, 
 diificulty, and the graphics are all brilliant. the more you play the more you get addicted to 
 this game. it has all the elements of a masterpiece which are made once in a lifetime. all the 
 character types are superb and are excellent in their own skills and game styles. this game offers 
 tons of enjoyable times of killing and destroying diablo's armies, and defeating his brothers armies 
 . man this blizzard guys have sure packed a solid punch of real hardcore gaming in diablo 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II is still one of the best Role Playing Games for the PC. You take the role of one of five 
 characters, the Amazon, the Barbarian, The Paladin, the Sorceress and the Necromancer. Each has 
 a unique set of abilities and dialogue in gameplay, though the quests are always the same.
  
  Decent graphics do not add much to gameplay, but are good enough to not be distracting like 
 many poorly animated games can. The sound is rather addictive, the music can tend to over-loop, 
 but the AI voice-overs are hilarious, as poor little demons scream in odd languages as you tear 
 them to pieces.
  
  Still a fun game, and online play adds a lot to the entertainment value. Playing Diablo II online 
 is not as fun as Halo 2, but up there on the list of fantastic games online. 
  
  Overall, great game, lots of fun, but not perfect. But the fact that it's over 5 years old and 
 still fun adds to its rating, since it can't be fairly ranked against games like FFX or the Halos. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syncope
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  By the time i write this review D2 is old and World of warcraft is out.
  But i wanted to say that this is one of the game i played a lot and that it is good. I tryed about 
 every class, every builds and had possesion of about every item at least once. The game is well 
 made with great cinematics. 4 different cities. The combat system is basic , you click as fast 
 as you can do deal damage. And basicly the game is just combat and a few town business. They are 
 a few quests. very basic. But you can't get bored of playing in a party with friends. Seriously 
 if you have a couple of friends that play that game online, playing with them is really fun. Replay 
 value is really great. (one account can have 8 characters and some players own 3 accounts ) But 
 if you play this game on single player its not worth it. This game was built for battle. net , with 
 trade channels chat channels multiplayer games with friends, parties and of course duels. There 
 is also a Hardcore mode, that if you die once you can't play your character again.
  
  I spended a lot of time on that game and i give it and overall of 9 
  If you want to buy the 
 game i suggest you buy the expension with it. If you taste the expension you'll never want to go 
 back to normal D2 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife145
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good game. It's one of the funnest games and can be one of the hardest games I ever 
 played. The gameplay (GREAT!) , the sounds (it's okay) , and the graphics (AWESOME) were very good. 
 
  
  The mission of the game is to defeat Diablo at the last "world" so that 'you' can stop Diablo from 
 conquering the worlds with evil and demons. To defeat him, you are to choose from 5 types of warriors..... the 
 Sorcerer.... the Paladin... the Barbarian..... the Necromancer.... and the Amazon. These warriors have 
 their own types of skills that can be selected each time your character levels up. each time you 
 level up..... you can add stats to your character... such as Strength, Agility, Intelligence, or 
 Stamina. each of these stats can maximize your attributs like HP or Mana.
  
  The game has at least 6 missions for each world and each mission is fun in their own way.. for example.. one 
 mission would be to kill a demon that has killed lots people for the past few ages. The missions 
 are really fun and can be very hard to at some times.
  
  This game is an awesome game! I never get bored with it.... it's one of the best games I ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 8
Date: May 16, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  As much as I loved Diablo I, I couldn't wait to get my craws on Diablo II. The promise of new characters 
 with unique skill trees was unimaginable. It was heaven really? Did I wait all that time for nothing? 
 Read on to find out!
  
  Good points: Let's start with the good stuff:
  Graphics: Much better than Diablo I, but still could use some improvement.
  
  Sound: The earie 
 feel of Diablo I is gone, replaced with other sounds, some good, some bad.
  
  Running: Hoo boy was this needed. I hated walking around in Diablo I. Now running, abide it be 
 with stamana, was a great addition to the game. You could run away from enemies, or run to them, 
 didn't really matter. And at higher levels, you could run for minutes at a time. (That doesn't 
 sound too long, but it does make a huge difference)
  
  Unique skill trees: A very welcome addition to the game. Now the rogue and the sorcerer don't have 
 to make a mad dash for the books so that they could get them first. You have your own skills that 
 you can upgrade, and they complement each other nicely. Be careful, choose the right ones. Look 
 on guides around the internet to see which ones are the best with the current update.
  (Bad)
  Because of the updates, your character that was uber in the previous update now could 
 suck majorly. Just to warn you. Or if you climb the wrong way up a tree, it will soon be evident 
 that you cannot even make it past Andarial without help.
  
  Multi-player: Yes, multi-player is back. And as with all Blizzard games, it rocks. Nothing like 
 the trill of hunting down Diablo's minions with a few buddies. Just don't bicker about who gets 
 Griswold's Plate.
  
  New enemy types: Pretty cool at first, and a welcome addition to fighting the same kinds of things 
 over and over, but will get lame after a while. They just get upgraded and renamed, and whamo, 
 you have a new enemy. But that was like Diablo I as well, nothing new there.
  
  Acts: These do make a good addition, but you'll find yourself liking one act better than the next, 
 or the layout of the act hard to navigate at points. Don't get frustrated. It happens, just slog 
 it through.
  
  Waypoints: These are cool too. Because Acts are long, you have to find waypoints, or WP's, to help 
 you hopscotch your way to the end fight. Very good if you find them all, and you need to help a 
 buddy out and just take him through the important bits, or where the fighting is heaviest.
  (Bad)
  If you miss one, then you have to wait and go on to the next area to find the next one, 
 or try to find it somehow on your own, If you play multi-player, you can always ask someone for 
 a missed waypoint. Most of teh time they will give it to you if they have it.
  
  Mana: Your mana recharges by itself, and you can get items that recharge your health for you as 
 well.
  
  Items: There are unique ones again, but also 'rare' and 'set' items. These can really be good, 
 or really suck, depending on the item.
  
  More room in your inventory: You not only have more room in your inventory, but you also have a 
 stash now that you can put weapons that are too good for you to use yet, or items you wish to trade 
 later on. Also quest items that you do not want to carry around all the time are good candidates 
 for putting in this stash.
  
  Bad: Here's what really let me down:
  The whole feel of being alone in an uncharted dungeon was lost. It was more like a "Mickey Mouse" 
 version of itself. I like the whole 'you against the world' feel of Diablo I, which this one doesn't 
 have.
  
  You have to have friends to play this: This can be both good and bad. I heard that only 3 kinds 
 of characters can make it relatively well through the game. Since they change with each update, 
 I won't list them.
  
  Some things you have to do. There are quests that are cool, but some of them are so mindblowingly 
 stupid, I didn't like doing them for the upteenth time.
  
  Not much of an improvement overall. Not much has changed from the graphics and sound point of view. 
 I was hoping that it would change more radically. But in all fairness, this is a relatively old 
 game.
  
  Runes: Some people love runs. You can make runeswords, making your items so much better, or trade 
 them, depending on the rarity of the rune. I never really bothered with runes, only traded the 
 higher ones
  
  That's all, and may people sing your song in bars for years to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Kaliaver
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is the loved sequel to the amazing and appraised Diablo. It will blow you off your feet 
 with its draw droppings gameplay and story.
  
  Diablo 2 in short words is a hack and slash all the way. But you cant forget about the amazing 
 story that comes with it. To play the great story with you are given five characters to cause mass 
 destruction to hells minions. These characters are the Paladin, Barbarian, Sorceress, Amazon, and 
 Necromancer. Each character has their own set of abilities and forms of attacks. If you want to 
 just right into battle and kill everything then you want to be the Barbarian or you could always 
 pull back and support your team with your holy powers as the Paladin. If youre not a big melee 
 combat fan then you might fall in love with the Necromancer and his powers to bring the undead 
 to your unyielding loyalty or as the Sorceress and her ability to conjure deadly spells to destroy 
 any enemy that crosses your path. But then if your not really sure what you want to be you can 
 also go the path of the Amazon as either taking a bow or a spear to decimate your enemies from 
 where they stand.
  
  The story of Diablo 2 may come as a boring concept put into a monotonous game, but I would truly 
 beg to differ. The story that you will be playing through goes a little like this. You are a hero 
 and you must take the task from the feeble attempts and mistakes made by past heroes to kill Diablo 
 and stop his minions from raining chaos. Now that it is your turn and you must go through four 
 chapters and help many characters with their quests to even reach Diablo himself. Now on your way 
 to reach Diablo you will fight three beasts that are also known as Andarial, Durial, and Mephisto. 
 With each completion of these chapters you are faced with many new quests to beat and then you 
 may reach Diablo in the final and last chapter. You must fight the new Diablo since a hero of the 
 past did kill him, but they made a fatal mistake and placed his soul stone into his own flesh to 
 create the renewed Diablo. Diablo is not an easy beast to kill. Either he will defeat you with 
 his many powerful attacks, or his own fortress in hell itself will stop you from reaching him. 
 You will also be challenged and tested almost to a fatal death before you can face him.
  
  The gameplay as I said before is a pure hack and slash. With many monsters, bosses, and beasts 
 to kill in this game you will find yourself forming new strategies to defeat each enemy. While 
 each character is different from pure attack skills to support classes and even full magic heroes 
 you will find yourself creating new characters and finding their best abilities. While you blast 
 your enemies with either a firewall or just with a huge battleaxe, Diablo 2 will not only give 
 you amazing attakcs but will also give you sets and sets of armor. With plain armor that change 
 the way you look right down to the full sets of armor to give your type of character a bigger bonus 
 to help him kill Diablos minions. To the core Diablo 2 is repetitive, yet you wont mind one bit 
 just with how amazing the game truly is.
  
  With a huge improvement on multiplayer since Diablo 1, it makes Diablo 2 have a lot to like. Diablo 
 2s multiplayer has lowered the cheating and upped the amount of people allowed in game at one 
 time, which helps when playing Diablo on hell mode. Now the more people you have in a game raises 
 the difficulty and lowers the experience (if you are in a group) . Multiplayer also features all 
 the same things from singe-player but now having Paladins support spells will have a greater affect, 
 which makes the multiplayer a fun and new strategy of play. If the single-player doesnt get you 
 hooked the multiplayer will for sure with its high intense action and ability to play with a good 
 number of other friends at one time really make Diablo 2s multiplayer a thing to like.
  
  The graphics of Diablo 2 may seem dated but remember it was made just at the turn of the century, 
 and when I think back they really do look nice. While the graphics are only 2D they are a good 
 2D at that. With all the spell effects to brighten up the screen and being able to see all your 
 dead enemies laying on the battlefield so you can laugh at them will always give you a good feeling. 
 Now while the graphics are dated you will find many games to not have the nice effects Diablo 2 
 offers. Plus the graphics from other titles seem to be as good as what Diablo 2 offers.
  
  The sound of Diablo 2 is good but still leaves room for improvement. With the voice commands using 
 the right number keys and the enemies noises plus all the magics booms and zaps Diablo 2 will 
 sound pretty good. The sound may get old after awhile when you cast firewall 20 times in about 
 1 minute and hearing your enemies groans from being inside the flames.
  
  The content is unparallel to Diablo 1. Diablo 2 not only enhanced the multiplayer but with many 
 more items and quests to do you will never find yourself not being able to do something. Yet the 
 stash is always a constant hazard of not being able to put enough stuff in it, many will find it 
 and the lack of character customization (hair, body, male or female, etc) to be a constant restraint. 
 Diablo 2 also does not truly fulfill the art of making living breathing cities, but since most 
 of the game isn't being spent in the cities there really is no need.
  
  Diablo 2 overall is a very great game with a lot of stuff to do and with how fun it is you will 
 be playing it for a long time to come. YET there are still some things they could have fixed. Even 
 with those things needing fixing Diablo 2 puts out one hell of a game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ribicaman
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 12, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2... hmm... what to say...
  
  Ok. We'll start with some nice descriptions. The game is unique in all types of views. Diablo 2 
 features not so impressive graphics but the rest of the thiings ( Sound, Gameplay, Multiplayer 
 etc. ) are more than enough to cover the lack of graphic enjoyment.
  
  The game is brutal. Why? Because of the gameplay. It is so interesting to wield dual axes and slash 
 your way through red skinned demons.
  The Game features a lot of things that every RPG fan wants : A lot of different weapons, a lot 
 of levels, a **** load of monsters and... uh... and an exellent multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer is awesome. Even though I played only once, it is enough to satisfy me.
  
  
 Dialo 2 has all I need so im gonna give it and exellent grade, and hope that Blizzard will create 
 something like this in the near future.
  
  Liar, Lawyer, Mirror show me,
  Whats the difference? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii26
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely stunning. The graphics are a little bad but once you get used to them they 
 are actually really good and leech onto you. I absolutely love the graphics as they aren't really 
 good but it's the fact that I played with them, they seem so natural and right. 
  As for the depth of the game, it's incredible. The offline play is the same thing as the online 
 play, so I suggest playing a bit of the offline than head out to ladder. Ignore anything that's 
 not ladder because you'll be plagued by constant dupping, hacked up crap, and so forth. It ruins 
 the game and I suggest you play on ladder because there's a little less hacking on there. 
  For the weapons, that's where it meets my needs. I see so many action RPGs and they lack th necessary 
 weapon depth whereas this, does not lack at all. You can find so many elites, uniques, make rune 
 words, socket it with topazes, rubies, diamonds, or whatever you want. The possibilites are endless 
 and the number of rune words are endless. 
  Now the number of characters they have is pretty good. They could have used a little more but the 
 expansion made up for that. The characters can match anyones preferences and it's just fun to use 
 all of them. you'll want to make one of each character because they all contain different attributes.
 
  Overall, this game is for anyone who loves RPGs. This game sucked me in good and I loved every 
 bit of it. You just better watch out, this game is a lot like a MMO and it will drain your life 
 if you don't be careful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 7, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  This game defines the ideal slasher/adventure/rpg.
  
  I played the game when it was in it's closed and open beta phases and I was hooked. This game has 
 a solid plot, with gorgeous cutscenes and varied environments to adventure through.
  
  The musical playlist to accompany this game is worthy of praise as are the sound effects that make 
 Diablo II feel real.
  
  The game can be played in single player mode and still be incredible, but what pushed this game 
 to 9.8/10 in my books was the absolutely immersive multiplayer on BATTLE. net!
  
  People were able to aid one another through dozens of unique dungeons and help each other find 
 mysterious and unique magical items. These items varied in quality and in rareness. Some items 
 could be commonly found in the world of Diablo, whereas others would be much more difficult to 
 find and would sell for extremely high prices online.
  
  This online community still exists today and is thriving like no other!
  
  Though this game 
 was released in 2000 (if you can believe it) , people are still playing it all the time. I have 
 recently had cravings to get back into it, but my laptop is having troubles with OpenGL for some 
 reason. No worries though. I'll deal with my cravings soon enough.
  
  Diablo II is worthy of far more than the wimpy 8.5 that GameSpot gave it. This game is epic. I 
 am very critical of the games I play and Diablo II is hands down one of the greatest games ever 
 made.
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 7, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Diablo II is an extremely popular game even today, but some including myself feel that it receives 
 more praise than it deserves. Diablo II isn't by any means a bad game, but it lacks the feel that 
 made the original great.
  
  Diablo II is set some time after the conclusion of the original game. The player is able to pick 
 from one of five different classes, and after that they find themselves in the rogue encampment. 
 Apparently all Hell has broken loose (literally) , and your character has come to put an end to 
 it. The story is split into four acts each located in a different town which is surrounded by randomly 
 generated areas and dungeons.
  
  Diablo II plays a lot like the original game except with some changes. Unlike in the previous game 
 where even a warrior could learn magic; all classes have their own skill trees where they can spend 
 skill points on certain skills to increase their power. Unfortunately this is the only real change 
 in gameplay between Diablo and Diablo II; everything else remains fairly the same.
  
  The graphics and sound are okay. Both are lacking compared to other games in the RPG genre, but 
 they serve their purpose. The graphics are detailed, but the music is forgettable as are the generic 
 sound effects and voice acting.
  
  Diablo II is a decent sequel to Diablo. It's not as good, but fans of the original should at least 
 give it a shot. If you didn't like the original; you probably won't like the sequel, either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necro007
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, it rocks in every way.
  
  First of this game has some if not the best graphical effects I have ever seen in a game like this, 
 when this game came out it really stomped on the competition. The character animations are perfect. 
 The environments are lush and gorgeous. When you raze a Golem for the first time or cast a fire 
 ball spell it is just WOOOOOWWWW.
  
  As for the sound, this game has again toped all other games like this in sound, it has great speech. 
 The dialog is excellent. All the sound in this game is perfect, from the swords clashing to the 
 sounds of the enemies foot steps, this game does a great job of creating a perfect atmosphere for 
 a gamer to immerse themselves in.
  
  At the beginning of this game it gives you an amazing movie, I call it a movie because it is just 
 so WOW. The cinematic qualities of these movies are fabulous. It really makes you feel so much 
 closer to the character you picked in the beginning.
  
  Now I saved the best for last, any game can have eye popping graphics, unreal sound and some awesome 
 videos put together, so what sets this game apart? It has to be the game play.
  I will have to admit, game play was a bit strange at first but I did not take me long to learn 
 it. There is nothing like curving up demonic beasts into a million pieces.
  
  All in all this game ROCKS. If you are looking for a prefect "ACTION/ADVENTURE/RPG" game then look 
 no further. This game is so good that everyone should own a copy of this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 04l27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  It consists of many heros, monsters, weapons etc
  When you play this game, you will face many monsters you can't even imagine. There are 4 parts that 
 you can play.
  The actual gameplay still consists almost exclusively of killing monsters to gain treasure and 
 experience points. Since your character constantly gains more and more formidable abilities and 
 weaponry, that relatively simple style of play proves to be just as addictive as it was in the 
 original Diablo and in other games that have since exploited the same formula. It's difficult to 
 extract yourself from a game that always keeps you on the verge of being rewarded for another achievement. 
 
  My only complaint would be the story. At the age of story driven game, the story element could 
 be much better and more engaging. You get that feeling of Slash and bash without a good reason 
 for it appart of getting new items. 
  
  The new gem system that can enhanced items is great but you find yourself not using them cause 
 the resulting item is not that great compare to what you can find.
  
  So I think it is a game you worth playing
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sedoras
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II is the long awaited sequel to a great game. Back in the 80s, we would kill joystick after 
 joystick playing Epyx Summer/Winter/World/California Games series. In the 90s, we would kill Mouse 
 after Mouse playing Blizzards Diablo. And Diablo II still keeps the button-mashing gameplay, but 
 spices it up.
  Instead of one large Dungeon, you have 4 unique Worlds. Of course, they are randomly generated 
 every time you start a new game - the key to success, because no two games will be the same. Battle. net 
 play capability is obvious as well. Combined with 5 Character classes, countless items and ways 
 to improve them by fitting gems in their sockets if available and millions of players to play with 
 Diablo II is going to get you busy for a long long time.
  
  Better get some spare mice though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniworks
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  The longest standing game ever, this game has kept players glued to their PCs since 2000, and 6 
 years later we are still at square 1, every time I play Diablo II I feel as exited as the very 
 first time I got the game. I can't wait to get home connect on battle. net and start showing off 
 my heroes. This game is more addictive then anything else the human kind has come up with. So if 
 you are ready to give a lifetime away on playing a game... then Diablo II is the choise for you.
 
  
  Even if you finish the game once, you can still play with the same character, which will keep you 
 glued to the chair untill you create the ultimate fighting machine. The graphics are not state 
 of the art, but they are good enoughj for those RPG lovers out there. And the soundtrack is just 
 right, it makes you feel right at home as it did in Diablo (the original game) .
  
  In one word, this is a great game to have for any game collector... and trust me, it won't be just 
 a shelf game, you will want to clean the dust of the box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SyBerWoLff
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  One of the best video games of its kind to come out, Diablo 2 brought many challenges to the table 
 along with an amazing storyline. The Game itself was great to play through and the secret levels 
 were great as well.
  
  A game that brought together the fun of playing the game, with the addiction of playing the game. 
 The World of Diablo 2 Looked amazing, beautiful graphics for its time and wonderful gameplay.
 
  
  I remember the first time I went to face Diablo, it was with a party of 3 other people and I just 
 stayed back. It was in the middle of the night, and being the young boy I was I was actually SCARED! 
 Yes I admit it, I was afraid of Diablo. Dieing several times durring the battle but the party still 
 won.
  
  An amazing game that actually creates great memmories, something not many games can accomplish. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lagamer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is Blizzards follow up to their big hit Diablo. In this game there are many bosses leading 
 up to the giant boss Diablo. But to get to them you will have to go through sprawling dungeons 
 with traps and monsters lutking behind every corner. Now, in Diablo 2 they acually have classes 
 which is a step up from the warrior mage, and archer class from the last game. There are 5 classes 
 which are Paladin, Sorceress, Barbarian, Necromancer, and Amazon. They each have tons on skill 
 you can level up through the game 100 levels
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in this game is your good old fashion hack n slash. You pretty much clic kthe mouse 
 button until the monster dies. There is also some skill involved because you can assign skills 
 to your left and right mouse buttons so you can make combos up and other moves. Sometimes you may 
 feel it gets repetitive after you keep clicking the button over and over but you will force yourself 
 to keep playing because it is so much fun. 
  Graphics:
  The graphics arent gonna win awards but I acually enjoy the 2D kind of 3D graphics. The monsters 
 and bosses all are nicely made so you can see the differnce between them but for some of the monsters 
 they just change the color or one thing about them. Theres no character custimazation which is 
 kind of a drawback but everyone looks differnt with their armour so you never really see the faces 
 or anything. They could have at least added a little custom character making orat least got to 
 chang the hairstyle, but th rest of the game makes up for it.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is nothing special here. Blizzard just put in the casting, slashing, blocking and mosnter 
 dying sounds in. Just all the sounds you would need. I acually dont think there is any music playing 
 while you go through the levels except sometimes theres a noise that tell you its daytime or night 
 time.
  
  Value:
  This game has amazing replay value. You could play through 10000 times and you could still have 
 fun collecting the items and trying out new ways to put in your skills. I have played through many 
 times and am still not bored a tiny bit of the game.
  
  Tilt:
  Simply put this game is one of the best RPGs out there. You must get this if you love hack n slash 
 rpgs or just a fun addicting rpg with endless hours of fun.
  In addition to the singleplayer, there is also multiplayer!!! There is a ladder where every year 
 they erase everyones charactr and see who can level the fasted. Or you can have a non ladder character 
 and just keep it and show it off to people. All and all this is one of the best RPGs out there. 
 Defintitte buy!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I was hooked on this game for a couple years playing it so much! The reason for playing was it 
 was free, and easy to play. I've made a lot of friends. The missions were easy though. SOme were 
 hard as you went into harder dificulties. I still have my original character. I play one in awhile. 
 Great storyline, and gameplay. I have many other games though that take over this one now. They 
 haven't done much for upgrades because of the free charge to play. All they do is make patches 
 for it to help the cracks, an cheaters. That's a good thing I guess, but they just come out with 
 something else to overcome that. I'd recommend this to anyone. It's fun all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojocomeand
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game is just plan addictive. Just right about the difficulty or a bit over (had some problems 
 with first boss :) ) . The game play is amazing that is the reason it has survived so long and I 
 am saying that because I just bought it. The graphics are pretty bad but you really can't do anything 
 about that since it is a very old game with an old engine. Good job they have the expansion pack. 
 To sum all of the words up this is a great game amazing even and you can see how lon it has servived. 
 It also has a good multi player and a very good singe lplayer. you can have dules with other players 
 but you must make a new player for the online which I think is very anoying so I will not give 
 it a 10 in gameplay. multi player works the same way like the singel player you make a new charecter 
 and you play the campen just with other people. As I said befor you can have doules betwen you 
 and other players in a special match. The graphics 9 I gave is for that time ONLY same gos for 
 the sound
  (Sorry if I miss spelt words :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is one of the true RPGs to live for many years after its release. It was something to 
 be proud of, something to work for and be honored for. The game had an incredible amount of content 
 that was unique and exciting to find. I remember, almost as if it was yesterday, fighting Diablo 
 and coming from hell with hordes of gold, gems, rare items. It was glorious. This is a true wonder 
 in gaming history that should be played by all. The sound and gfx are dated (obviously) but they 
 arent a drawback. You wont even notice or care. The interface can be a bit confusing till youve 
 played the game for some hours, but once u do, its easy and efficient. The leveling up is refined.
 
  Some problems were that it could become unbalanced if u played online. But the singleplayer was 
 great.
  If you plan on playing this game prepare to be lost for hours and realize youve missed church or 
 your sons little league game. Oh well, it was for glory and gold. They'll get over it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avitu666
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  I've edited this review because I was a little hard in my language about this game ( I still have 
 trouble calling this a game though...)
  
  I've been a CRPG-er since end of the eighties; I've played the most epic RPG series (Ultima, Eye 
 of the Beholder, Elder scrolls, Might & Magic, even the Ishar series) .
  So I was thrilled to see that Blizzard promised us the epic RPG experience... Funny, but I think 
 they were talking about another game than Diablo then.
  
  I started my character (a barbarian) , ready to undertake an epic quest with a deep, thrilling storyline. 
 I expected interesting NPC's, both allies and enemies.
  
  But the disappointment came fast.
  
  The quests limited themselves to go kill this, come back, 
 then kill that.
  The only thing I ever saw in this game was mindless killing.
  
  I gotta admit, technically it's OK.
  Graphics are quite nice, even for today's standards. Sound 
 is OK. I have to give this two sets of scores.
  
  first, as an action game, It'd get a 7 out of 10.
  Not bad, nothing special. Just good ol' Gauntlet 
 with prettier graphics. Quite OK for the younger players who've never played that classic, though. 
 
  
  As a roleplaying it gets a full 1/10.
  the one point I give is, is for the technical aspect of the game, since it's quite well done.
 
  
  Blizzard, If you ever make a Diablo 3, please remember that there's more to an RPG than just xp 
 and levels/classes.
  RPG's are about a deep, rich storyline, unforgettable characters and a lot of character interaction, 
 not this Mindless zerg-fest.
  If that's kept in mind Diablo 3 could be a good RPG. If you keep the same formula, call it an action 
 game and not an RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4ya
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly entertanin as though it is a little frustrating at times. It has excellent single 
 player and multiplayer and you can play up to 5 characters. For each character you choose they have 
 different skills like the Amazon is an archer, Barbarian (warrior) , Paladin (holy warrior) , Necromancer (can 
 raise the dead and curse enemies) , and sorceress (elemental mage) . On this RPG you of course grow 
 levels and get stronger, do quests, and walk around and buy stuff or walk around and kill stuff. The 
 multiplayer if awesome! You learn about the game faster, yuo can trade with other players, chat, 
 do quests with them, and duel with them! This game usually has bosses on some quests and once again 
 great game!
  I like to be the barbarian because warrior is my style! Allthough most of the bosses are pretty 
 hard but still this is recommended for RPG lovers like I am with FPS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  One of the best, if not the best RPG ever made. Diablo 2 is still played quite heavily all over 
 the world. Lots of worlds to explore, lots of treasure to collect, and many weapons that you'll 
 never see or experience 5 times over.
  
  Gamespot said it best, this game DOES have tons of replay value. Once you beat diablo the first 
 time, redo the entire thing on a tougher level and keep leveling up. This just leads to even better 
 stuff. The ability to add socketed items to your clothing and weapons is just awsome. With 5 character 
 classes to choose from and multiple ways to play each one there are tons of differnt ways to utilize 
 them.
  
  After all these years, this is one game that remains on my HD to this day. I still play quite often 
 and still have the same problem of not knowing just which character I want to defeat diablo with.
 
  
  Must have!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onikage123
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  So let me put things in perspecive ur Pick ur class, walk outside the village and ur swarmed with 
 monsters which u will kill. Now u will do this at every new stage of the game but it is pretty 
 fun. 
  U can cast spells or gain abillities depending on what class u are.
  For example if ur a necromancer u (surprise surprise) summon creatures and denizens of the underworld 
 from felled enemies. Whereas if ur a paladin u get the bog standar paladin package with healing 
 and shields. The gameplay is pretty satisfying with u killing enemie upon enemy and while it can 
 get repepetive in a dynasty warriors type fashion, 'tis' fun while it lasts.
  The graphics are like majorly dated dudes and while perhaps better than baldurs gate are pretty 
 bad. The FMV graphics are fine tho.
  The sound is fitting with enemies making enemie noises and the score fitting very well. Actually 
 i really like the score its very well presented.
  Overall its a fine distraction for a budget price and is reccomended for a quick RPG blast that 
 is satisfying if linear.
  The dark lord has returned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  This game defines the ideal slasher/adventure/rpg.
  
  I played the game when it was in it's closed and open beta phases and I was hooked. This game has 
 a solid plot, with gorgeous cutscenes and varied environments to adventure through.
  
  The musical playlist to accompany this game is worthy of praise as are the sound effects that make 
 Diablo II feel real.
  
  The game can be played in single player mode and still be incredible, but what pushed this game 
 to 9.8/10 in my books was the absolutely immersive multiplayer on BATTLE. net!
  
  People were able to aid one another through dozens of unique dungeons and help each other find 
 mysterious and unique magical items. These items varied in quality and in rareness. Some items 
 could be commonly found in the world of Diablo, whereas others would be much more difficult to 
 find and would sell for extremely high prices online.
  
  This online community still exists today and is thriving like no other!
  
  Though this game 
 was released in 2000 (if you can believe it) , people are still playing it all the time. I have 
 recently had cravings to get back into it, but my laptop is having troubles with OpenGL for some 
 reason. No worries though. I'll deal with my cravings soon enough.
  
  Diablo II is worthy of far more than the wimpy 8.5 that GameSpot gave it. This game is epic. I 
 am very critical of the games I play and Diablo II is hands down one of the greatest games ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjf_80
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  .... for that is TRULY the question.
  
  Diablo 2 is a great game, from the superb beginning to the very end.
  
  Blizzard has put a 
 lot of effort in making Diablo 2 look more intense, raw, and brutal than the first Diablo game.
 
  
  Lots of foes, many weapons, tons of variating quests and a whole lot more.
  I assure you, if you love rpg-adventure games on the PC, get your hands on this one, cause you'll 
 experience one infernal & magnificant adventure.
  
  Fascinating boss fights, innovating weaponry & armors. Many new towns & villages to explore. Random 
 generated fields.
  
  This time around, you'll even be allowed to hire help, on your quest for glory. Keep in mind though, 
 that your "ally" might die if you don't keep him/her alive on your way forward. The foes do not 
 always attack you, if you have a helping hand nearby..
  
  - You start off in the first village where the people have suffered great pain over a short period 
 of time. Your first primary quest will be to "cleanse" the local cave which is crawling with demons, 
 that is causing the problems in the village.
  
  I wont reveal the rest, since it would ruin the whole plot for all those, who have not yet played 
 this game.
  
  Grab a copy and enjoy!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  As Diablo was my best game ever, it is of no surprise that Diablo II is in my best 10 game. Although 
 I must admit I was not drawn to it as I was with Diablo. But there is no reason for this cause 
 Diablo II has enough changes to it to be of a great interest. Contrary to Diablo, all the characters 
 plays differently. It's worth playing the game over and over with different character and then 
 play it again with different strategy (choosing to perfect a different branch of habilities or 
 spells) . The online play is also very good. 
  
  My only complaint would be the story. At the age of story driven game, the story element could 
 be much better and more engaging. You get that feeling of Slash and bash without a good reason 
 for it appart of getting new items. 
  
  The new gem system that can enhanced items is great but you find yourself not using them cause 
 the resulting item is not that great compare to what you can find. 
  
  Still Diablo II is a must for everyone who loved a nice hack and slash game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't introduced to the world of Diablo until the second game was released and i've not stopped 
 playing it since. It's easy to go back to an old game and enjoy it again for a brief period of 
 time, but you always realize that there's something better to be played. For me, this is not the 
 case with Diablo 2 and it's expansion, LoD. No game has ever offered you the amount of different 
 options as Blizzard has done with D2. The LoD expansion adds an additional two new character classes 
 and a slew of weapons, gear and trinkets. The gameplay is challenging and exciting and even more 
 so when you are playing with others. Whether that be via Battle. Net or just on a LAN, you can easily 
 lose 4-6 hours in one sitting. Yes, the graphics are dated by today's standards. The biggest example 
 of this is that the highest resolution you can play on is 800x600 (as an upgrade from 640x480 for 
 the initial release of D2) . Until you are able to sit down and play the game, you won't understand 
 the perfection that Blizzard released long before Warcraft and WoW. This is one game to ALWAYS 
 go back to in slow gaming periods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This game should be a must own for your PC, if you are a PC gamer than this game is for you, if 
 you haven't bought it or played it you should do so soon. I think this game is pretty addictive 
 is still play it to this day.
  
  Gameplay: Its great the story on single player is pretty long and each mission is pretty long as 
 well but its real good and when you get online it gets even better, but the only thing i didnt 
 like to much about going online was that you had to do a sertain thing to make your account perminant 
 well kind of it stays for 99 days and if you haven't gone online in that time period then that 
 file gets deleted.
  
  Graphics: They are real good but what do you expect from a PC game all games look good, But this 
 was just missing a few things for the graphics but you still were able to see everything pretty 
 good.
  
  Sound: The sound is top notch and if you have good speakers for your PC than it will sound pretty 
 damb good
  
  Value: Its amazing i bought this game 2 years ago and im still playing it.
  
  If you are looking for a great PC game that is not quit old this is a good one you should go 
 out and buy it if you are a Diablo fan or if you own D1 and your thinking of getting D2 go for 
 it you'll have fuin for a couple of years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  I don't know of any one other PC game, which had as much hype surrounding it, as did Diablo 2. 
 When the game was announced in 1998 the same 2 screens that the developers released were posted 
 on every single website so many times it just became tiring to stare at them.
  
  Along with the screens came the previews and the tales of the revolutionary gameplay: night and 
 day cycles, mercenaries, merchants that moved, and many more things that never made it into the 
 final version.
  
  Of delayed and not as visually spectacular as many games were in 2000, Diablo 2 was released to 
 a game hungry audience in August. It beat every sale record for a game it it's first weekend, ever. 
 It sold 1 million units so fast it was hard to find it in-store. Gamers scrambled on ebay, or got 
 their pre-order slips and assaulted Best Buy, EBGame, Gamestop stores in order to get their copies. 
 And why shouldn't they? Diablo 2 is the untouched LEADER in action-RPGs. Many have tried to imitate 
 it and they have all failed. Many more will try and they will share the same fate because the amount 
 of work and dedication put into this game is downright amazing.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  These graphics were really pretty... when the first screens were released, circa 1998. Two years 
 later, the graphics were still good, but they weren't stellar.
  
  The resolution was the biggest offender. The resolution in Diablo 2 was stuck at an abysmal 640x480 
 that made the game look horrible on big monitors, which had become the rage at that time. Blocky, 
 sprity characters fought on-screen with a lot of finesse and zeal, but they were held back by the 
 abysmally low resolution, which would have earned this game many-a-critic even if it were released 
 on any of the dozen previous release dates it skipped.
  
  On the other hand, the rest of the effects were downright awesome. A perspective view for those 
 with D3D video cards was available and it made the lighting absolutely amazing for that time. Flame 
 arrows glowed with a red light, which trailed behind and under them as they sped to their target, 
 firewalls glowed red, The Evil Den had an evil glow to it, etc. Even though everything was probably 
 glowing red, it was still, non-the less, an amazing effect to look at.
  
  The death animations, which were pretty much a tradition in Diablo games, were amazing as well. 
 Every creature had a different death animation and it was spectacular to watch every single time. 
 Some creatures burned alive, others fell down, blood-a-bursting, shamans exploded and threw their 
 staff up in the air, which in turn, broke into a million pieces, Fallen left out a cry and a pool 
 of blood, etc. I could just imagine the kind of work and the amount of programming required for 
 all of these animations to work so well must've been insane.
  
  Cities and dungeons look amazing for the most part... emphasis on part. You can clearly see in 
 what order the producers made this game, for, the later parts of the game are all increasingly 
 better looking than the one's preceding them. The first act is virtually just a bunch of plains 
 strung together and with walls around them, while the second act is 10-15 times as visually complex.
 
  
  Whatever Diablo 2 lost in level design, it made up in both monster design and character features. 
 Diablo 2 featured an unheard of number of individual monster designs. A little over 70 individual 
 monsters were present in Diablo 2 with over 300 different types of monsters if you also included 
 the color and name changes. The kind of care that went into those monsters doesn't seize to amaze 
 to this day. From death animations, to overall animations, to design, to equipment, these monsters 
 look as great now as they did almost 5 years ago.
  
  Characters were also visually upgraded. You could, in the earlier days of battle. net, actually 
 tell the equipment of a character just by looking at what their paper-doll was wearing on the main 
 game screen. This too, as you would imagine, was an unheard of level of detail. At this time, the 
 only thing that the most visually stunning RPG could tell you is that a character had a helmet 
 and armor. That's how much information you could get from looking at their in-game paper-doll.
 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The music and sound effects featured in Diablo 2 were well above average and well above 95% of 
 RPGs.
  
  Perhaps what I find most intriguing about D2's sound effects are the voice-overs. For ONCE in an 
 RPG we don't get the same idiotic assortment of horrendously acted British accents that accompany 
 every fantasyland character that we come to meet in an action RPG. Characters in Diablo 2 spoke 
 like real people, had a plethora of different accents, and gave their lines a decent attempt before 
 getting thrown to the curve.
  
  The sound effects are pretty decent, but not on par with the music and the voice acting. The clashing 
 of the swords, the lacerations of the flesh, and the "Whoosh!" of magic spells are all very convincing, 
 but they don't stand out from the crowd too much.
  
  The music is pretty decent featuring fast paced, slow paced, and apocalypse-paced tunes that will 
 suit all ages and preferences. That too doesn't stand too much above the norm however.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Let's get something straight from the start: The gameplay in D2 is simple... 
 very simple. Yet, this is by far the most complex action RPG ever made. How can such a paradox 
 be true? Through the genius of the programmers, that's how!
  
  In Diablo 2 you play one of 5 different classes. And when I say different, I MEAN different, more 
 on that later. Anyway, moving on, the 5 classes you can pick from are the Amazon, the Necromancer, 
 the Sorceress, the Barbarian and the Paladin. Most of these characters are as cliched as they sound. 
 The Barbarian is big, strong, and dumb while the Amazon is swift, svelte and good with a bow. The 
 only "original" class featured in Diablo 2 is the Necromancer, which is a sort of dark mage that 
 can summon all kinds of skeletons or demons to fight for him. He can also use some rather nasty 
 spells that invoke all kinds of creepy stuff. The spell Teeth, for example, invokes 4 or more 
 little energy balls that eat away at your enemies.
  
  What really makes the classes special though is that they all have a unique skill tree. That means 
 3 tabs, with up to 10 skills each, all featuring UNIQUE skills. Simply put, this has not been achieved 
 in any RPG in existence... now or ever. This kind of depth allows for infinite customization and, 
 while some skills are better than others, if you really wanted to, you could create at least 10 
 different versions of the same character. That's insane.
  
  The skills themselves are varied enough, ranging from your average fireball to some amazingly cinematic 
 skills. Diablo 2 also replaces Diablo's "everyone can have it"-routine, since with 3 unique tabs 
 for each character there are no 2 skills that are the same for 2 different characters in this game. 
 Skills are a joy to look at and some are truly both horrific and powerful and they might just make 
 your skin crawl as you watch them coming at you in PvP mode. Fair is fair though, and there is 
 a problem with the skills: balance. Some skills are absolutely decimating, while others squeal 
 by without making much noise. Guided arrows, Froze Orbs, Whirlwinds, are all hundreds of times 
 more powerful than other skills that are at the same level.
  
  Upon gaining a level, you will receive one skill point and 5 stat points to distribute as you like. 
 There are no Stat Caps like in the original Diablo so you could, technically, create a sorceress 
 that is better at hitting with the staff than she is at using it's spell. Skills can be upgraded 
 to a maximum of 20, exponentially increasing that skills power. You also gain a set amount of HP/MP 
 per turn, which can be used to keep yourself alive longer. Finally, there is a maximum level cap 
 of 99 which means skill distribution is ESSENTIAL.
  
  And here the problems rear their ugly heads, distributing skill or stat points wrongly can kill 
 a character. I made this mistake with a sorceress and, by level 88, I realized she was totally 
 useless. Due to this, many don't want to stray too far away from the beaten path of certain skills: 
 for PvP I choose this and this and for PvE I choose that, that and that. This is a shame since 
 it complicates the game for newbies and it also makes many options totally useless since if you 
 want to survive you wont really find much use for them.
  
  The Diablo series, however, has always had one category in which it outshines all other RPGs: items. 
 Diablo 2 has tons of items and this is the game that gives a rats ass about them. Blizzard went 
 to insane lengths to keep item "duplication", creation of hacked items, and general item illegalities 
 to a minimum on battle. net. Hell, in fact, they went so far that they even banned half-a-million 
 users from their servers for what are, mostly, item offences. Yeah, items in Diablo 2 are that 
 important.
  
  Items are split in 5 different groups: normal, magic, rare, set and unique, in order of importance. 
 Normal items are just the basic item, like a long sword, with no special abilities or extra features. 
 Magical items have a few more perks than the normal items, but are nothing compared to the rares. 
 Rare items can have as many as 10 enhancing features, everything from "Enhanced Damage (more damage) " 
 to "Life leech (life stealing) ". Set items are the new addition to Diablo lore and they're items 
 that are part of a set (like Death's Hand set) which, if collected, grant extra Set bonuses. Finally, 
 unique items are the most powerful individual items in the game. They have out of this world features 
 and are just amazingly hard to come by. These are the truly precious items in Diablo 2.
  
  Item obsession runs deep within Diablo 2 players, and that's for a very good reason. Nearly 80% 
 of the time, what items you carry will be much more important than how skilled you are at playing 
 Diablo 2. Items offer mostly everything that a character in Diablo 2 has: health, mana, strength, 
 skill, etc. Items are so important that even their placement on a hero's body is essential. Place 
 items in a bad order and the stat's won't add up to give you enough to wear that amazing shield 
 or armor you have. Diablo 2 perfected items and created a whole mania about them. To this day, 
 accounts for Diablo 2 and it's expansion go, with a certain regularity, for $60+ on ebay.
  
  Along with the new items Diablo 2 brought to the gaming community, there were also gems. Gems 
 could be set in a piece of armor or a weapon to give them extra power, as long as that piece of 
 armor had a socket or more. Gems ranged from Ruby's which gave either fire damage, fire resistance 
 or life, depending on where you put them to sapphires which gave the exact opposite: ice damage, 
 ice resistance and mana. Gems became increasingly important throughout the life of Diablo 2, especially 
 online. Gems could also be used to craft new items or to help repair old ones.
  
  Yet another addition to the items category was the Horadric Cube. This magical piece of jewelry 
 that you found at some point during the game allowed you to transmute or craft new items from preexisting 
 ones. The Horadric Cube was not exactly the bane of innovation, people were crafting items in MMORPGs 
 way before this, but for Action RPGs, this was it right here. Recipes for the cube popped up like 
 mushrooms after a storm, mostly fake, but a few were real and people love to experiment with it. 
 Soon, the cube became an essential part of Diablo 2 and, even more so, of it's future expansion 
 pack.
  
  Items and skills were the most important parts of Diablo 2. The rest of the gameplay, while very 
 good, was never able to come up to the kind of excellence that the skill tree and the items offered.
 
  
  Diablo 2 had a simple story, with a simple gameplay. You were a hero, and your job was to defeat 
 Diablo, the Lord of Terror. Through the game you fought Diablo's minions, his brothers, and all 
 other kinds of demons, some, better designed than others.
  
  The quests found in this game are not really that compelling. There are only 6 quests per act, 
 not all of which are required to move on, and the rewards you receive from completing these quests 
 are extremely poor. More so, a lot of the time, completing the Act will complete 2 or 3 out of 
 the 6 quests, which leaves optional quests to a bare minimum. This was much better done in Diablo 
 where you had not only a few random quests every time you played, but you also had better rewards 
 and more optional quests.
  
  Monster design is mostly successful in Diablo 2. Some monsters are a failed attempt at humor that 
 just end up becoming annoying, but most of them are really just these terrifying demonic fiends 
 that stop at nothing to try to stop you on your tracks. What's also very important to know is that 
 PvEing in Diablo 2 isnt so hard unless you reach Hell difficulty. 90% of monsters had no immunities 
 until you reached Hell difficulty and that allowed certain character classes to dominate others.
 
  
  Diablo 2 features 3 types of monsters: normal, unique, and super-unique. Normal monsters are just 
 your regular, every-day, grunt that attempts to kill you and is suppose to fail MISERABLY, unless 
 he's in numbers. Unqiues have a little more power by themselves and also carry a posse of imbeciles 
 with them... mostly cannon fodder though. Super-uniques on the other hand, are really the tough 
 kids on the block, ready to kick your ass even without help... but they get it anyway. Monsters 
 in Diablo 2 can feature a number of attributes, much like items, that can grant them anything from 
 enhanced damage to revive.
  
  But at least it was fun to fight where you did. The environments of Diablo 2 are dark and leave 
 much to the imagination... but in a good way! You start the battle with Him in a abandoned monastery 
 filled with ghastly torture chambers and even ghastlier monsters, you continue into a jungle filled 
 with monsters of all kinds and creepy, blood-stained temples, and, finally, you reach hell. The 
 actual design of the fighting arenas is amazing. They are packed with gory detail and leave you 
 wanting more, not less, like most dungeons in RPGs do.
  
  Diablo 2 has a lot of replayability to boot. It's just a lot of fun to go through the game a few 
 times with different characters in the eternal search for items or to just see what new difficulty 
 levels hold. Finally, there is the ultra-hardcore, Hardcore mode in which a character that dies 
 stays dead and looses all of his/her items.
  
  A few problems do arise however... the most important of which is character balance. Before a lot 
 of patches and D2: LoD, the Necromancer was useless. It was nearly impossible for this guy to go 
 through the whole single player campaign in Diablo 2 alone. However, the unbalances did not stop 
 there. Sorceresses were way to powerful, paladins were nearly as bad as Necromancers, Barbarians 
 were virtually useless against Sorceresses' in PvP, etc. These problems were all solved later on 
 with patches and the arrival of the expansion pack, but others just arose later.
  
  Another big complaint about Diablo 2 is that the actual GAMEPLAY is not too much fun. You have 
 to click every single time you expect your character to hit, which many people find quite annoying. 
 I think that's just like trying to find problems where there are none. Clicking on a mouse button 
 a hundred times certainly isn't a work out, so stop making such a big deal out of it.
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  
  Diablo 2 is the uncontested champion of free online RPGs. Battle. net 
 and Blizzard have put together one helluva' experience.
  
  Perhaps what Diablo 2 does right in it's online component is that it focuses on the players involvement 
 with the game rather than on the actual game itself. Online play in Diablo 2 is like a fully featured 
 MMORPG. Party controls, trade windows, hostility alarms, PvP/E separation, etc. This kind of care 
 and perfection hasn't gone into any SINGLE one of Blizzard's excellent crop of online games with 
 the exception of Diablo 2.
  
  The community, while filled with 13-year-olds and overly obsessed kids is huge and a blast to play 
 with most of the time.
  
  There are plenty of games to choose from, ranging from free for all PvP to organized "Magic Find 
 Runs" where players band together in the search for better items.
  
  The online component is split into a multitude of channels and activity-specific chat rooms that 
 allow everything from trade, to personal clan channels.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  Diablo 2 is the standard bearer for the whole ARPG industry and no matter how badly beaten you 
 were online, calling this game a "Borefest", "Clicking game" or any other half-assed insult won't 
 change the facts: Diablo 2 is good of an action RPG as there will ever be.
  
  If you don't own this yet, go out and buy it now. There is still a community brimming with activity 
 and filled with players from all continents and walks of life.
  
  Go out and get this game, it's well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  Whats the objective of a game? To have fun, fun and fun. Thats exactly what happen when I first 
 played D2. This is THE game Ive played the most after the Civs games. I have completed the game 
 with all available characters many times. If anyone still ignores what is D2: it is a hack-and-slash 
 RPG where you seek evil demons while growing your abilities and powers. The skill system is astounding 
 and flawless and just never get boring. When your character levels-up, you can really see the difference. 
 The campaign mode is complete and not too much repetitive, unless you play the game many times 
 (like I did) . The storyline is first-class ant the graphics left me mesmerized. 
  
  This game only gets more interesting and more exciting if you play the game online or especially 
 in LAN with your friends. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirk13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  Well here it is, Diablo II, Blizzard had a lot riding on this game, and people were expecting a 
 lot from it.
  
  Overall I say Blizzard delivered. They brought more of the same where people generally wanted the 
 same and they made changes where the game needed changes, a veritably perfect balance.
  
  The graphics were very similar to the previous, albeit rather improved, but I dont think people 
 would have had it any other way. Keeping a safe distance towards the familiar, prescribing to the 
 formula, "if it aint broke, don't fix it."
  
  The music didn't feel quite as great and inspired as the first game, but the quality was still 
 there overall, and created quite a good atmosphere.
  
  At first I wasnt too accustomed to not being in one town, being able to traverse one gigantic 
 underground layered dungeon, but in the end I got used to it, even still, that created a wider 
 disparity for good and bad levels, causing the replay to at times be a chore.
  
  The multiplayer was of course the games big selling suite, with Blizzard now having the highly 
 developed Battle. net system, and not charging a dime to use it, players were able to enjoy this 
 game for a much longer time than just what the single player offered.
  
  Overall Blizzard created a very robust sequel to the original, improved almost all the way across 
 the board without worrying about over or under stepping their bounds.
  
  One can only wonder what they have in store for Diablo III, if there ever will be one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gettalife185
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  If video games were drugs then Diablo II would be crack laced with X. Pushermen Blizzard Entertainment 
 successfully takes what was great about Diablo and expands it in every direction. More classes, 
 more items, more monsters, more map. In a world of 3D Triple A titles, Blizzard stuck to their 
 2D guns and gave gamers a truly rich experience.
  
  * Gameplay: Highly involved storyline with lots of great sub-quests. The maps are huge, the monsters 
 are numerous and the items are diverse. The damage types were easy to understand and figuring out 
 stats such as damage given and taken are easy to calculate and follow. Levels load quick and easy 
 and the games no-nonsense save feature was a boon. Gamblers and Vegas addicts beware; the process 
 of watching booty drop and hoping a rare item will appear are EXTREMELY ADDICTING. Teaming with 
 buddies enhances the game in a large way due to the well-crafted balance of each class. Imaginative 
 locations look as if they spawned from the bowels of hell itself.
  
  * Graphics: Rich colors, moody dungeons with flickering shadows abound. Isometric view compensates 
 for obscured walls by making them translucent. Nice. A parallax effect adds a little to the 3D 
 feeling.
  
  * Sound: Subdued music allows all the sound effects to take center stage. Its a real treat to 
 blaze into a fracas and hear the sounds for everything at once. Voice-acting is cast well, but 
 I would have liked to see a little more variation on common dialogues.
  
  * Value: Huge replay value. Trying to get items alone is enough to keep you going. Like a junkie 
 you glare at the screen while monsters spew their baubles in the hope that a yellow, green or gold 
 item will drop. Youll likely be screaming, Gimmee a fix, man!! after a couple of days playing. 
 Even after you've finished the story, the urge to keep playing is just as strong.
  
  * Tilt: I never played the first Diablo but I played this game for over two years 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanfwlr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Diablo is one of my favorite games ever, although my score for it was only an 8.5. It was fun and 
 addictive. Now, the sequel is everything that the first was but better and more entertaining.
 
  
  The graphics for Diablo 2 are much improved over the original but are still the prerendered backgrounds 
 and sprite characters. This doesn't mean the game looks bad, because it has an amazing artistic 
 style, but I sort of wish they would come out with a 3D Diablo. Maybe for Diablo 3 then.
  
  The sound and music is superior in this one and the atmospere created is wonderful.
  
  The 
 gameplay is the same as the first but harder and better. The gripe I had with the first still exists 
 but enemies drop better items at the beginning so you don't need to purchase much. The game offers 
 more characters to choose from and each one is vastly different.
  
  The amount of custimization available is wonderful. And, each character has his or her own sets 
 of skills and magics to learn.
  
  All in all, Diablo 2 is a vast improvement over the first and deserves to be part of your gaming 
 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kabloo12
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I just recently bought this game because my best friends own it and they wanted me to play multiplayer 
 with me so I bought it. But anyway the graphics are awful and although the combat rocks, it's sort 
 of like dynasty warriors except for the fact that you arent able to handle it. In DW you could 
 take on armies without getting hurt. In D2 yu can take on armies but you will most likely die at 
 least twice. The multiplayer is co-op and the single player game is so hard I don't even try it. 
 But anyway the gameplay rocks and being able to fight with random people and look at a huge battlefield 
 that is covered in gore is just cool. The game does lag though. I found it odd though that 1 time 
 in MP the game froze... well sort of. I was able to walk around and try to hit things but I always 
 missed and the enemies and fellow players didn't move. But the main reason my score is so good 
 is the gameplay and the cutscenes. The cutscenes look good for my computer (I think this game is 
 the most advanced my video card can take) . Though in a way I don't like this game because my character 
 in MP (a lvl 25 Paladin) gets killed so often that sometimes I slam my fists on my keyboard and 
 curse. Then I find my corpse and play my Xbox. I reccommend this if you like a challenge like my 
 uncle, or if you are able to play with your friends online. But don't get it if you like soaring 
 through games on easy (I don't even know why they put hard mode) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I had this game back when I was about 8 years old and looking back I now realize how great this 
 game is. This a very great title featuring online play and a very entertaining story line that 
 is incredibly entertaining and addictive. It is great and the boss battles are nothing short of 
 spectacular, their deaths are great to watch and the animations are very articulate. It was a game 
 that was ahead of it's time in my opinion. I really want to see the Diablo series continued on 
 the XBOX 360 because that would just be great to have and play. I would definately reccomend you 
 getting this game as it will provide you with hundreds of hours of entertaining game play and I 
 think it's only $10 now to go pick up anywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Diablo was the best RPG to ever come out. Period. Then Blizzard was so smart that they made Diablo 
 II continuing the ever long Diablo series. In Diablo II you are still kicking butt to get to that 
 nasty devil Diablo. But as we saw he gets away AGAIN! In Diablo II it continues our story and even 
 provides new professions. The gameplay is slighty enhanced and the graphics are the same. I adore 
 this game and it seems to play a great role in our gaming era. It's been almost 5 years since they 
 have come out with a new thing for Diablo (2006 now) but research says that they are bulking up 
 their Diablo staff for something new. Who knows what they could bring in the next few years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionBob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  DiabloII is till a game played by thousands of fans when it was first received people loved it 
 for its gameplay and multiplayer not my take.
  
  Gameplay- Its alot of fun whether your trying to build a unique character, or get all the items 
 to a set this game can keep you playing for a very long time assuming you have a internet connection.
 
  
  Now the down side is it only has so many quests and you'll be playing the same quests over and 
 over again per character so quite repetitive.
  
  Graphics- This is the weakest part of the game its not an ugly game but still isn't exactly winning 
 any awards.
  
  Sound- Its good everything has its own unique sound.
  
  Value- You can play this game forever and still not get all the items.
  Thousands of items means 
 chances are you'll have enough to keep you busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimpfattony
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is not only fun and addictive, it's also easy to pick up for people in any age group. 
 The main attribute of diablo is the community. Without friends, this game wouldnt be fun at all. 
 Friends help, they give you items and always talk to you. Diablo 2 differs from other games such 
 as World of warcraft and Guild wars because in WoW the max character level is 60 and guildwars 
 it's 20. It also differs from those 2 titles because the gameplay is three times faster, and not 
 that hard to keep up with. Spells don't take time to activate, drops are variable. (not always 
 crappy or not always good) . There are seven character classes if you install the expansion. The 
 story continues where diablo 1 left off. Your hometown (tristram) is once again crushed by diablo 
 (which we killed already) , and he starts building up forces so he could rule the world with his 
 fella Baal. Long story short, diablo 2 is a great game, and you should check it out if you dig 
 RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 4, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is proof that image isn't everything. By todays standards this game looks dated. By the 
 standards of when it was released it looked dated. However this is a fantastic game. It uses a 
 very simple and repetitive formula but it uses it so well that you cannot help but love the game.
 
  
  The story continues on from the original Diablo (which I loved at the time, but was put to shame 
 by this sequel) , and while the plot is predictable its just such a good story that you can't help 
 but enjoy it every single time you play. And you can play it many times, this game has fantastic 
 replay value due to the variety of different character classes and the variety of different skills 
 within these character classes. Another feature that gives the game its replay value is the fact 
 that you can enhance many items using gems and runes that you find on your journeys. Of course 
 the treasure dropped by monsters will change from game to game which further adds to the variety 
 that will be found each time that you play the game. 
  
  The music is appropriate for the game, if at times repetitive. The voice acting is also of a good 
 standard. A minor complaint would be that the players character has no real dialogue options with 
 the NPC's, you simply listen to the mission brief and other information, do the mission and return 
 to be thanked and given a new mission. It would be good if the characters were developped a little 
 more through dialogue. 
  
  Another great element of this game over its predecessor is the introduction of henchmen. You can 
 equip your henchman with new weapons and armour and can choose different types that best compliment 
 the abilities of your character. Its a shame that the appearance of the henchman doesn't change 
 with different armour or weapons that you give them, but I guess we can't have it all our own way!
 
  
  It is also a very long game, which is another improvement on the original which was way too short. 
 While there is no great challenge to what you have to do, the plot is engaging enough to keep you 
 interested all the way through the very lengthy story.
  
  The weakest element of the Diablo franchise is the graphics, which look dated. However this doesn't 
 take away from the gaming experience. It is a great story that moves along well and the characters 
 and quests are interesting and varied enough to make you keep playing over and over again, despite 
 the basic graphics. The weird thing about Diablo 2 though is that the cut sequences are incredibly 
 good looking and detailed, which really highlights the weakness of the ingame graphics.
  
  The graphical weakness cannot detract from this game though. It is a simple matter of exploring 
 areas and dungeons and clicking repeatedly on enemies until they die but it is done so wonderfully 
 that you will play through it time and time again. The plot is great (though you need the expansion 
 pack to complete the story) , the characters are likable and there is enough variety in the game 
 to keep you playing the single player mission over and over again. Every time you play the levels, 
 the monsters and the items will be different meaning that every adventure is unique. A very simple 
 formula, but a brilliant game that will stand as a classic for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thylife99
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Diablo , when first released by blizzard didnt create as much hype as has this game. it is "the 
 RPG game". Amust play for everyone. Starting of from where diablo left off , it takes as after 
 a dark wanderer . U move on in search of the=is wwanderer through tunnels, jungles, deserts, mystical 
 placers and finally hell , destroying anything that come in ur path . Finaly u finish offf diablo, 
 u feel as if u hav just really saved the world. Starting of as any of the sfive characters, u build 
 up to be a stronger one. My personal fav is the barbarian. Its just fun to see choppin of ur enemies. 
 I too recommand him for beginners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigga1801
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  What happens when you take the first great-to-perfect hack-n-slash rpg and add more of everything 
 you loved including more? Diablo II Is born, with state of the art gameplay and graphics that live 
 up to older edged PC's and still look fantastic for not being fully 3D rendered, matter fact in 
 my opinion that would of slowed and took away from the heart of the game. Diablo 2 may look like 
 a spiced up a version of diablo, it may look like it has the same graphics, it may look like you 
 still wield a sword, hack, and call it a night. but what it may look like is very different than 
 what it is. Diablo 2 has fantastic level design, Huge enemies, gory gameplay, customizable weapons, 
 a killer online play, smooth graphics that wont slow down even the slower computers, and anything 
 a diablo junkie ( or even perhaps any rpg/hack-n-slash fan ) could ever want, especially for its 
 time, now you may see people saying the graphics arent well and blah blah blah. but theyre smooth 
 as they could be without requiring a 3D graphics card. and personally i think when great franchises 
 go 3D they lose alot of heart, wanting to be good through visuals instead of what they were truely 
 great for in the past. so hands down, diablo II is fantastic, addictive and a game worth the price, 
 honestly its worth any game to dates price, even carrying a 50$ price tag wouldnt have you regretting 
 your money. get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZabuzaR
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  First off lets talk about the gameplay. The gameplay on D2 is not all that bad even if it is a 
 hFirst ack and slash game the new added classes was really cool such as the necromancer. The multiplayer 
 is just as good as it was in the original Diablo. The multiplayer will keep you glued to the screen 
 for hours of clicking.
  
  Graphics this game is not all that great. Sure the graphics have been improved from the original 
 but it just dosent seem like that much. For a game at this age the graphics could be a lot better.
 
  
  Sound in this game is alright. I found little improvement from the original one and really find 
 it medicore.
  
  Overall if you can deal with the out of date graphics and sound you will find yourself playing 
 this game for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II takes place shortly after Diablo leaves off the wanderor who shoved Diablo's Soul Stone 
 into his head is searching for peace but continualy gets pulled into Diablo's demonic grasp, eventually 
 giving in, giving birth to the new quest to destroy Diablo yet again before him and his brothers 
 can rain chaos unto the earth. Diablo II is a huge step up from the firist offering many more characters 
 to play as, extensive skill trees and unique ways to build your character and a much more massive 
 array of weapons, armor, accesories to wear. 
  
  Overall:
  Goes down as one of the top 5 games I have every played. Well worth purchasing and while you at 
 it pick up the expansion nearly 6 years old this game still has a large online fanbase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  On the back of the game box it says: "An epic game of role-playing action and adventure"
  
  The statement above is so true and it just about sums up this amazing game.
  
  I love this 
 game and so do many other players. It is one of the few games that have stood the test of time 
 and are still very popular today as they were when they were released nearly 5 years ago.
  
  The basic premise of the game is to wander around, complete quests and kill monsters. Nice 
 and easy and nothing too much to worry about there.
  
  And basically, that is all there is! Oh, I must not forget the excellent online gaming service 
 that Blizzard run so well. Yes, you can play this game over the Internet on the Blizzard 'BattleNet' 
 service for free and it is in this area that the game really shines.
  
  Online, this game is just awesome. I can't put into words just how good the online play is so I 
 will just say pick up a copy of the game and give it a go, please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speedfreak_R
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  My interest for this game started when I overheard a conversation between two friends of mine about 
 some Sorceress with fire and lightning abilities. I asked and they told me about this game Diablo 
 II. When I heard about it, I wanted to play it! So that very same day I ran to the store, bought 
 it and went home to play it.
  
  The first thing that came to mind when I started playing was that the graphics were a little outdated, 
 which wasnt very surprising, because I bought it in 2003. But that didnt annoy me at all, after 
 all, the most important aspect of a game is (to my opinion) the gameplay. And I must say that really 
 didnt disappoint me.
  
  There are a total of four chapters and each with their own looks, creatures and environments. And 
 each chapter brings you closer to your final battle with Diablo. And thats what the game is all 
 about!
  
  What I mention earlier about the graphics is that theyre a bit outdated. But still for a game 
 this old, I think it looks great. So thats why it still got a good grade. The music sets a nice 
 gothic atmosphere and the sounds make you think youre in the heat of battle. So everything here 
 is great!
  
  One of the things that made me buy this game was the online feature. You can play online with friends 
 in a co-op mode and make great progress in the game together. Theres also a feature that hands 
 out rare items in the game that are only available online and some of them being really valuable. 
 So this means its always a surprise to find out what items you have won when you beat a boss.
 
  
  This game really is much fun and I still play it once in a while. Especially when my friends are 
 online and just want to bust some demons with me. Consider this a recommendation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This game has a very diverse cast of weapon's, armor, and item's for the player to load up on. 
 It's dated graphic's are hardly a flaw when put next to it's overwhelming gameplay and quick loading, 
 populated addictive online gameplay. The single player campaign is long and challenging enough 
 to keep the player entertained worth the buy.
  
  Building up your character with a wide range of attack and spell's depending on what race you pick 
 (out of the many available) and thus effect's how a player should invest his stat's. This game 
 is truly one of the shining RPG's of its time, and not only it's time, but gaming.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Intricate gameplay with so much diversity and fun, as well as many challenge's 
 at bay to keep your average gamer entertained.
  
  Graphics - 8
  Dated and blocky, but run's smoothly and reflect's the game to a high extent. The cut scene's look 
 great.
  
  Sound - 10
  Chilling sound effect's and haunting tune's that really provide a dark and creepy atmosphere on 
 every corner.
  
  Overall - 9.7
  Simply an amazing game that slips through all the flaw's of rpg's around it. While it bring's nothing 
 new to the table, everything it does bring it approve's upon and master's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  The best game ever made? Hells yeah. Diablo II is hands down the greatest game ever made in the 
 history of video games and that is a bold and true statement. First and foremost it has an amazing 
 storyline. After seeing the opening cutscene you want to go out and woop Diablos punk ass right 
 away. Don't worry you will have your time and chance. You can choose from 5 characters which include 
 the Amazon, Necromancer, Barbarian, Palidan, and Sorceress.
  
  Gameplay: Diablo II is a typical hack and slash RPG. Move mouse over monster, click, rinse and 
 repeat. However with the sheer variety of items and monsters that appear in this game it never 
 gets old. To kill monsters with you have your choice of weapons, armors, rings, amulets, and more. 
 Each better for a specific class than the other. The AI in this game is perfect. It gets harder 
 when your in Hell mode and easier when your in normal as you would expect.
  
  Graphics: If you saw this game for the first time you would be thrown off by the graphics. They 
 are not the greatest but I never saw myself saying "wow these graphics suck." They are just not 
 the best out there but that doesn't diminish the game at all. 
  
  Sound: The music in this game is the best ive heard in any game so far. The sort of medevil/magic 
 feeling music really adds to the overall experience. Also each character has his and her own sounds 
 when casting spells and fighting.
  
  Value: The content in this game not to mention the online mode is enough to last you not only hours, 
 days, or months, but years.
  
  Conclusion: What are you waiting for? Go out and buy the Diablo Battle Chest for $19.99. You get 
 Diablo, Diablo II, and Diablo II: LoD. The best series ever. Go out and buy it now and pray for 
 Diablo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is one of the greatest games out there if you don't own a good rig to play the latest 
 pc games , it is a great RPG , without mentioning the multiplayer , its so addictive you will find 
 yourself replaying it tons of times with different people in all the difficulties , and if you 
 are tired of fighting , treasure hunting and item trading is one of theways to go , cause there 
 are usually some rare items that can be traded for others making it fun collecting them and watching 
 people fight over them .
  
  The best part about Diablo II's multiplayer is that it is completely free , the downside is that 
 if you don't use your character in 3 months it will be erased , Diablo II has a lot of servers 
 going on making it difficult not to find a game to play in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  The original Diablo had some problems. Mainly the graphics and extremely simplistic gameplay limited 
 it's appeal. This time around though, Diablo two is much more enjoyable. With new classes, such 
 as the Paladin and Amazon, you now have a lot more freedom in both items, classes, and enemies. 
 Although the graphics are still behind the times and the sound isn't all that great, Diablo two 
 pretty much sores elsewhere with replay value that is beyond almost every other game on the market.
 
  
  First things first, Diablo two's story is super stale. It basically revolves around you killing 
 Diablo and a bunch of his minions. That's it, at the end of each chapter you have a boss, and so 
 this is the kind of game you would play for the gameplay. 
  
  Diablo two is very addictive. Although it isn't that long, it's always random each time you play 
 and each of the five classes have their own unique type of gameplay, such as the Amazon, who can 
 only really use spears and bows. The Necromancer for istance, is all about creating lots of undead 
 minions to do your bidding. You can also play online, create your own character with any name you 
 want, or have some of the best PVP around. The PVP is amazing, I really enjoyed just killing lots 
 of people and testing my gear and skills that I created offline and trying it online.
  
  Diablo two is pretty basic still. Apart from leveling up and upgrading your spells and abilities, 
 you just basically point and click, which is very simple yet lots of fun, especially how enemies 
 and treasures you find can be taken back to the local town and sold for gold. This gold can buy 
 you gear, or you can quest for it, either a side quest or the main quest. Since everything is randomized, 
 dont' expect the same type of game each time.
  
  Diablo two has some bland graphics. The character models move in great ways, but the textures on 
 them and the environments is almost less detailed than the original. The sound is equally un-impressive. 
 It really isn't that great and overall, the music and repetitive noises made by the enemies and 
 the slashing/shooting of your weapons gets old fast. 
  
  On the downside of the gameplay, the point and click is just to simple, I wish there was more depth 
 to it and online can get cheap, especially if you meet a hacker, someone who has ultra good gear, 
 it pretty much makes everything you work for meaningless. 
  
  Still, completing this game was fun, but the online was amazing, I will never look at PVP the same 
 way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  After the critically acclaimed hit of Diablo, came the sequel to such not only in name but bigger 
 in scope and latitude and scale, greater variety to the world of Sanctuary- Diablo II.
  Diablo II was a huge best seller and held many in thrall with its huge innovations and audacity 
 to be the next step in the RPS stratagem. Diablo II contains many features not available in the 
 original Diablo.
  The graphics have been improved with the removal of jagged edges, and greater polygonel enhancements. 
 
  The gameplay is Diablo II's greatest strength. Not only does it have the features of its predecessor, 
 but much more. Instead of three characters, there are now five, each with their own unique splells 
 unlike in the original. Players are no lnoger restricted to dungeon fighting, but are free to walk 
 through deserts, jungles, hell, a bastion of heaven, and mountains. The monsters are not the same 
 looking nor limited as in the original but have been multiplied tenfold in number, and there is 
 a far greater diversity to the bestiary.
  The music is good and reflects the mood of the certain setting with either grotesque ambience or 
 an aura of Hope and holiness as such in the pandenomium fortress in act 4. 
  Diablo II- good game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bah-Humbug
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Ah Diablo 2 how I love thee. No other game I have played has captivated me as much as this devil 
 *horrible pun I know*. Let me start of saying that it is not necessary to play the original Diablo 
 to know what is going on or to have fun. For those of you who were to young to play the original 
 or did not have a PC the story of Diablo is simple but very fleshed out and well done. The whole 
 story takes place in the medieval age and involves a demonic invasion. There is a war that is going 
 on between heaven and hell and the devil and his two brothers have been banished to the mortal 
 realm. Yup this is by no means any story you would have read in the bible. Heaven and hell are 
 well matched and both have plans for humanity there is also three lords of hell. Obviously hell 
 wants to torment and enslave humanity while heaven wants to save it.
  
  Diablo is a very dark game with lots of dead people scattered outside of the towns you start of 
 in and lots and lots of nasty monsters. There are undead, demons, possessed and animal enemies 
 to fight and the all gradually get tougher. There are seven character classes to choose and all 
 have unique skills and strengths. I wont spoil to much but say that there are fighters, archers, 
 summoners and spell-casters and even some that can be in between. This is a pretty straightforward 
 but addictive RPG; see monster kill it, gain experience, level up, rinse and repeat. There are 
 tons of items to find; weapons, armour, rings, amulets and other stuff. Items are usually found 
 on the bodies of enemies you kill but can also be found in chests, corpses and other storage vessels. 
 Did I mention that there A LOT of dead people in this game? There are multiple difficulty levels 
 that can be unlocked be completing the game and all the cool and powerful items you can get makes 
 this game extremely addictive. I have beaten this game and its expansion pack seven times at the 
 very least. The single player game with take you 20 hours to complete if you run through it but 
 can easily increase to 30 or 40 if you explore ever area in the game. Online play is also fun just 
 make sure to make you character on closed battlenet if you want to have fun online. Open battlenet 
 is swarming with cheaters and this is a shame. Now for graphics and sound. Diablo 2 was made in 
 2000 and even then was not the top of its genre. Everything is 2D and is very low resolution with 
 times 800 by 600 being the max that is supported. Sound on the other hand is excellent with great 
 voice work and music. The sound effects are a bit generic but then again lots of PC RPG's have 
 tried to be like Diablo 2 so they have become very familiar.
  
  Diablo 2 is the best game I have ever played in fact it is to good. I rarely install it because 
 once I start playing it is hard for me to stop! Do yourself a favour buy this game and it's expansion 
 pack Lord of Destruction. Just try not to get to hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  The gameplay in this game is hack n' slash action, with rpg elements blended in, making a good 
 fast paced, fun, simple-yet-great, game. Since Diablo 1, Blizzard added more characters, but removed 
 the old ones. In D2, you can be a poisen spewing, undead raising Necromancer, brute strength Barbarian, 
 mystical, spell-wielding Sorceress, stealthy Amazon, and more. You explore through the land, purging 
 it of evil, and killing the bosses. This game has many levels, split up into four acts. You travel 
 from an encampment in the midst of the woods, then to a desert port-city, with a nasty monster 
 lurking in its sewers, then you sail to Kurast, and jungle, infested with monsters, then finally, 
 you go to Hell. Each of the levels is pretty huge, and has paths leading to the next level as well. 
 In each "act" there is only one base camp, and to travel long distances, Blizzard invented "waypoints", 
 locations that you step on to in a level, and transport to any other waypoint that you've discovered 
 during your quest. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunsnArmor
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  I dont really play this game very much, but its kind of cool. Its better than the first one. The 
 game isn't that bad. The blood is not massive (sometimes) , there's no swearing in it, and there 
 is no nudity in it (not that I know of) . So I don't see why its rated M. Besides the rating, the 
 graphics are good (for the year they made it) , the sounds kind of good, and the story is long. 
 Well, maybe it just seems like that because its so hard. I like the bosses there nice and challenging. 
 I'm stuck on the second one. But the thing that I hat is when your playing online and you die you 
 lose a crap load of gold, even though you don't have any on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPG697
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playin D2 off on and for a couple years. This game is really easy on B-net but solo or 
 a private game its very challenging at times. The gameplay is great overall! It's hack n' slash 
 all the way but killing bosses is kinda tedious. There is SOOO many items and spells.... its incredible, 
 lol. After you get bored of a certain class its always fun to try a new one. The graphics of D2 
 are pretty damn good for an older game on a decent PC. The sound-effects are alright.... I dont 
 like the music though, i usually disable it. I highly recommend Diablo 2 to anyone that wants to 
 play a fun hack n' slash RPG. It wont get old fast :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiatebake
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  Yeah, i'm fully aware that this game has a HUGE fanbase, and i will probably be hated for this 
 but: this game sucks!
  
  The storyline is, well, crap.
  The first game had some originality and was good for the time, but this game is pathetic, aswell 
 as is the majority of the fanbase.
  I mean, run, kill, buy and sell?
  I can appreciate a good slashing game, it's fun, but this is not entertainment!
  
  The sound 
 is annoying and repetive and the monster's sound is crap.
  The monster's are badly done, easy ( even on hell) and has a predictable behaviour.
  
  The 
 thing that pisses me of the most is that people even call this a RPG!
  I mean, yeah it has spells but only everything goes around the high-level ones. the characters 
 are bad, with names such as: barbarian and Amazon, not very imaginative.
  
  The online versions, both open and closed (in open you can play as your singleplayer char)
  
 
  And both versions (despite what blizzard says) is easily hackable.
  
  Don't buy this game, but a REAL game like Baldurs gate or Call of duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  - A plethora of items, gems, weapons, armor, and other equipment create a huge diversity in players.
 
  - Equipment changes the appearance of your character.
  - Amazon, Sorceress, Barbarian, Paladin, Necromancer... creates a game where you can play to the 
 level cap 5 times through without getting bored.
  - Involving multiplayer features, where players can choose to play with up to 7 other players at 
 once.
  - Unique skills sets and stats that make each character diverse in their own right.
  
  The Bad:
  - Graphically, this game is not the best it could be.
  - The game is prone to 
 hackers who use maphack, dupe, etc; so certain players get overhauled characters, which make the 
 game not fair.
  - Drains your time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  this game offers so much. while the graphics may be a little outdated the game itself makes up 
 for it big time. Online play is free and awesome to play. YOur characters lvl up, get stat points, unique 
 items and sets etc. This game offers over a 1000 different items, 50 or so spells, 4 characters 
 to deck out. Even offline the game is fantastic. So many quests and items to acquire makes this 
 game very addictive and life consuming... meaning you will lose alot of sleep because you cant put 
 this game down. i give it a 9.1 because of the graphics and occasional server problems along with 
 some mean online players. So pick this game up its well worth it, and the learning curve is not 
 too hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:18 pm PT
Review:  You know the masses love this game when this thing has been out for several years and it's still 
 $20, while other games that's been out for a year has been put into the bargain bin. Not only that, 
 the expansion pack itself is another $20, unbelievable. You don't have to have prior Diablo experience 
 to play this, and it offers nothing new, same old left clicking madness. The graphics aren't great, 
 it seems like Blizzard didn't put much work into that field. There are different characters with 
 different attributes that you can select from however. My pet peeve on RPGs is that I can't stand 
 it when you put on new armor and it looks like you're still wearing the old one. When I put on 
 a helmet, I want to see exactly what it looked like in my inventory as it should be on my head. 
 Anyway, after about playing half way in the game, I was so fed up of the redundancy of this game 
 that I couldn't play it anymore, all the hack and slashing got old real quick. To be uber online 
 and have bragging rights, you need to build up your character experience through countless hours 
 of repetitive left clicking. It also means you'll have no life other than playing Diablo II for 
 long hours at a time. Not that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freemanrulez
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I cant believe how great this game is. It came out so long ago that i thought i shouldn't buy it. 
 But i did, and when i turned it on for the first time, i couldn't believe the level of fun i was 
 having. First i had to go through it all on single player, cuz i didnt have the internet. And finally 
 my family got the internet. I have played to my heart's content, and it still hasn't even diminished 
 from the original level of fun. Plus its replay value its so good, i could continue to play this 
 game until 2008. I believe that blizzard knows what its doing with this franchise, and they should 
 continue to create more and more diablo games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  Keeping with the great classic game play as the original the second installment in the Diablo series 
 does not disappoint. Once again, by now you can sift through the bargin bin and pick this title 
 up! You can probably get it in a multi pack with the original and even some expansion packs at 
 Wally-World.
  
  Just like the original the third person overhead view is excellent. The audio and graphics are 
 great. The critters are a little smarter in this one and dont just run to their impending doom. 
 Distance weapons are almost always my preferred so give a nice bow a try. This again is a must 
 have title for all you classic gamers with low end machines.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  .Out of all the PC games this game is one of the best! This game took me a long time for me to 
 beat. Especially if you need to beat the game again in the different modes. This game is quick 
 pace and the magic moves are fantastic. The graphic is okay even though it is 2-D. In most of the 
 RPG I play I usually train my character to the highest level, so it really took me a long time. 
 The story line is great and interesting. The cut scenes were realistic and look so real. In my 
 opinion this game is very addictive that all I want to do is kill enemies. Even though some times 
 it gets repetitive when you first play it for the first time because all you do is go in to the 
 room and fight. But over all this game is good for gamers who like long RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiseMakaveli
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:15 am PT
Review:  Diablo II, is a great multiplayer game.. The single player is amazing to, but once you play online, 
 and beat the game.. The single player is just something that is there, but you will never play..
 
  
  Contrary to what people say, at the beganing, yes this game was full of cheaters.. But the new 
 patches got rid of MOST of the cheaters.. Now, what you call a cheater now, can merely be someone 
 who uses some kind of maphack.. But this game has been cleaned up pretty well recently..
  
  Ok, getting to the review..
  
  5 Characters
  
  Paladin, Rogue, Sorceress, Necromancer and 
 Barbarian..
  
  Each has their own unique way of fighting... Paladin, you use holy magic for defence and offence... 
 Can be one of the strongest characters, if done correctly..
  
  Rogue, best with Javaline or Bows.. Uses Weapon enhacing magic.. Fire Arrows, Multiple Arrows, 
 Multiple Javas.. Very good character, again if done right...
  
  Sorceress, as it's name implies.. Uses basicly the old good classic magery.. Fire Spells, Cold 
 Spells and Lightning Spells.. It has a variety of different ways you can raise one of this.. You 
 can either mix it up, or go ultimate one way... The best in my opinion..
  
  Necromancers, Uses Dark and poisoning spells.. Kill enemies, then Raise their skelletons to fight 
 for you... Create your very own monster legion of Skelletons, Revived monsters and Golems.. You 
 can create about 5 difference golems throughout the game.. This don't really need alot of offence 
 strength, since your monsters will be the one doing most of the harm.. You can also cast curses, 
 to weaken your enemies and help your monsters out.. Necromancers are specially helpfull, when fighting 
 the ultimate bosses..
  
  Last, but not least, the barbarians!!!!
  Specialice Magic is the Shouts, and the Weapon Masteries.. Master different weapons, to increase 
 the overall damage and hit%.. Barbarians, are the only characters, that can hold two swords.. One 
 on each hand.. They can do stuff like, the Whirlwind.. Were they do this kinda tornado looking 
 thing, that slaps around enemies wiht alot of damage... You can use shouts, to increase your hp, 
 defence and offence.. Very Powerfull Character...
  
  This game has a great replay value online.. You can play with up to 8 people I think in one room.. 
 Basicly, the point of this game while online, is to beat the game, and try and find the rarest 
 of all items.. And trust me, this is no easy task, since there is thousands and thousands of items 
 to choose from..
  
  As you progress through the game, you will get a magical Cube.. Which is used, to morph items together, 
 to get something special.. There are dozens of combinations for this, and you will have a blast.. 
 
  
  GEMS
  
  There are gems in this game... The games, add special powers to your weapons.. If inserted into 
 swords, they will add either, Lightning, Fire, Cold, Poison or some other nice attributes to your 
 weapons... Gems can be combined, from chipped gems, to complete a perfect gem.. Which is the top 
 notch gem, that will add the most attribute to your weapon...
  
  You start off in normal difficult.. As you beat normal, you will then progress to Nightmare, then 
 hell... In normal, you can only find certain rare items.. As you progress to nightmare and hell, 
 youre magical resistance will go down, and monster resistance will go up.. But you will be rewarded 
 alot better in harder difficulties.. 
  
  So to sum it up for you, if you're looking for something to play nicely online, this is a great 
 game to think about.. Don't listen to the people crying about the lag, or the cheaters.. If they 
 lag, it's because of their crappy connection...
  Cheaters were cleaned away a while ago, so don't worry about that.. Mostly everything right now 
 is legit..
  
  If you're looking for a singleplayer game online, then this game works great to.. Aslong as you 
 don't play it online, because once you start to play online.. It will be hard to get some fun out 
 of it, in single player mode.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc5477
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 3:17 pm PT
Review:  DIABLO 2 
  + Lord Of Destruction Expansion
  
  GAME REVIEW SECTIONS
  
  - Gameplay 3/10
  - Story 2/10
  - Graphics 3/5
  - Sound 4/5
  - Effort/Innovation 2/5
  
 
  - Overall 4/10 (14/35)
  - Replay Value Low
  - Monetary Value $1
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY : 3/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Fluidity: 1/10
  
  The Good: Fast pacing allows for quick character development and advancement.
  
  The Bad: You 
 can get to high levels and never even speak to a single person in the game and unfortunately you 
 are entirely dependant on others once you reach the highest levels of the game (based on v1.11) . 
 You are dependant because the game is impossible with the majority of created characters without 
 certain extremely rare equipment that you may never see drop in your entire time playing the game. 
 Meaning you need to trade to get equipment and since there is no organized trading in the game 
 it basically means the game is unbeatable for the casual gamer unless you start over with a new 
 character and rebuild them specifically to do certain things. You could do that but in order to 
 go through the end game levels you will need to switch back and forth between several characters 
 something that isnt fun at all to do. A new player like myself found this to be very frustrating 
 and anti-climactic. Here I am, level 88 after 2 weeks of play, and I cannot in any way kill simple 
 monsters in hell level because they are immune to my abilities and no available weapon/armor combo 
 I can get a hold of can help me. I am not talking about bosses either, these just simple yard trash 
 enemies and I cant scratch them. Its not a matter of being hard, since nothing can really kill 
 you, but rather its simply an impossibility because my character cannot do certain things. I suppose 
 I can start over with a brand new character but this leads to the next paragraph.
  
  The Really Bad: The game is very short, and you just repeat the same missions over and over endlessly 
 to gain experience and get better gear. There are 5 acts in the game each with 6 quests to complete. 
 Once done, you simply start over again on a higher difficulty level but the quests and acts are 
 exactly the same. Its mindless, its silly, and it gets very old very fast and unfortunately its 
 required if you want to advance in levels or to get better items tragically the later requires 
 hundreds, or maybe even thousands or repeat runs before you see a single high end item drop then 
 you have fight against every other player in the game as they all rush to pick it up before you 
 making the odds of getting the item about 12% if you even see it all. Not good and not fun. Then 
 we also have issues with thieves. These people basically enter your game with all their end game 
 gear and high levels, then skip right over you to the bosses (by teleporting) to steal their items. 
 So there you are after working your way to get to a boss left with no reason to finish the game. 
 This must have happened to me at least a few dozen times while playing this game and its not as 
 if they didnt see me (countess tower anyone?) .
  
  The Ugly: Just when you thought I couldnt possibly find anything worse about the game there is 
 1 more glaring issue that everyone is aware of who plays this game. Server side lag. Yep, server 
 side thus you can do nothing about it and it happens often on the scale of several times every 
 hour when the server is really bad. I cannot even begin to count the number of deaths I have received 
 from this game/server bug and unfortunately every time you die you lose a ton of money and some 
 experience, and usually a death means you cannot recover your equipment thus needing to start a 
 new game. Its annoying and frustrating and after 4 years they still havent fixed it but then 
 again everyone knows that Blizzard cannot program multiplayer worth spit. All of their games suffer 
 from poor multiplayer programming from Starcraft lag, to WoW server crashes. With all the money 
 they make, this is truly pathetic.
  
  The Ultimate Disgrace: Yep you guessed it, there is even more and this one takes the cake. The 
 majority of good items being traded in the game are duplicates or duped as they say in game. 
 It appears that duping is as common as eating lunch every day. Thousands of people do it and there 
 are websites that sell items online all seemingly un-policed. This does several things. The rich 
 get richer and the poor get ripped off because Blizzard correct for this issue by wiping out all 
 duplicated from the servers every now and then. PvP is meaningless because people all have unearned 
 items and this game is 90% item dependant. No matter how much skill you may have a person with 
 high-end gear will kill you in 1 hit even if theyre a 5 years old. There is nothing you can do 
 about it.
  
  Character Options: 5/10
  
  You select a class, and each class has 3 skill trees. You can put points into abilities however 
 as you will discover while playing, the only way to be viable in the game is by maxing out a select 
 few skills otherwise you will be too underpowered at higher levels. This limits your options and 
 turns everyone online into a generic Xerox copy of each other. There are thousands of people with 
 the same skill set as you, and they all seem to share the same equipment at high levels. Its not 
 too bad due to the fact that you level so fast but it also means that your character holds no value.
 
  
  Combat: 5/10
  
  Just like Diablo 1, point and click. Nothing special but it works. You can hotkey your skills and 
 abilities and switch between them fairly efficiently during combat. You can also hotkey your potions 
 for quick healing. There are generally 2 critical combat situations you will encounter in the game. 
 The first is a one on one encounter versus bosses at the end of every act. They are generally very 
 strong and require some effort to defeat. The 2nd situation is in the regular environment against 
 a horde of enemies all at once. This requires some form crowd control and is where things can become 
 impossible in Hell difficulty. The problem with situation 2, is that if you cannot deal with a 
 certain enemy because they are immune to your skills, you will essentially be dead in the water 
 and cant do anything about it but reset the game and pray for a more forgiving enemy population 
 when you recreate the game. I find it silly that high-level character cannot compete against common 
 enemies in the game no matter what they try but this is certainly the nature of the game.
  
  Combat (7/10) + Options (3/10) + Fluidity (5/10) = 15 out of 30 or 5/10
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  STORY : 2/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  There is a story and its not very good. Diablo is back and has taken possession of the former heros 
 body so now you must kill him again. The videos were nice but the game was just too short and can 
 be completed in about 10 hours then you just rinse and repeat. The story unfolds very much like 
 other Blizzard games such as Starcraft and Warcraft. This is an RPG so its story is scaled to 10 
 thus hurting this game a lot.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  GRAPHICS : 3/5 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  I felt the graphics were sufficient for the game. The game is played in 3rd person on a single 
 camera angle 3D layout exactly like the 1st Diablo game. Its not spectacular even when it was originally 
 released but there is a lot of detail to the environment and to the character wearable gear. Not 
 bad.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  SOUND : 4/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  I really 
 like the music selections made for this game. They enhanced the feel of the game very well. The 
 sound effects were nothing special but they did the job without distracting me, which is a good 
 thing.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  EFFORT & INNOVATION 2/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Diablo 1 repackaged with a bigger map and more items. I cant say that too much work went into 
 this game and all the negatives in multiplayer loom large from cheats, hacks, and poor game balance 
 they killed the online game. They did spend a lot of time adding all these new items and graphics 
 to the game but overall it isnt very different from the original game.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  OVERALL : 4/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  All in all the game is just a Diablo I expansion. Not much is new and the issues with online play 
 make it this game very bad. Add to the online issues the fact that the majority of players are 
 children makes this game un-enjoyable for adults. 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  REPLAY VALUE - LOW
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The same quests over and over and over again. There is no reason to play it more than once and 
 PvP has no value in this game.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  MONETARY VALUE
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  $1
  
  Yep that's the lowest value I have ever given a game. This game lacks a story, is too simple gameplay 
 wise, is mind numbingly repetitive, flawed (difficulty problems) , hacked extensively by cheaters, 
 un-policed by Blizzard, and is basically just Diablo I all over again. If you want single player 
 try something else. If you want online try something else.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konochi
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:34 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 surpasses a lot of RPGs in many ways. While the playing system hasn't changed much from 
 the original Diablo, the game still manages to stay feeling new. Most casual gamers will not enjoy 
 this game to the fullest but hardcore gamers will be able to play through this game again and again 
 (if the difficulty doesn't get to them) . There is a new cast of characters including a Paladin, 
 a Sorceress, a Barbarian, an Amazon, and a Necromancer, all with their own special abilities and 
 advantages and flaws.
  
  The Paladin is a spiritual knight, he has Skills with swords and shields and spiritual magic. His 
 spells are not amazingly powerful but they can be usefull when there are not too much enemys around. 
 His weopon attacks are powerfull but not the most powerful in the game. He is in essence the all 
 around character who isn't amazingly good or horribly bad at anything. He is most suitible for 
 people starting out.
  
  The Sorceress is a spell caster. Her skills are generally with staffs and Fire and Ice magic. Her 
 spells are the most powerful in the game, and are usefull no matter where you are. Her weopon attacks 
 are the second weakest in the game. She is not the type of character you should play as if you 
 are a novice, she is a rather advanced character.
  
  The Barbarian is a worrior. His skills are will an axe. He doesn'r really have spells but feats 
 whitch are not very good. But he has the most powerful weopon attacks in the game. He is easy to 
 use near the beginning of the story, but becomes more difficult after you have played with him 
 for a while. He is deffinately not for beginners
  
  The Amazon is a Archer. Her skills are with bows, javelins, and spears and some slightly powefull 
 spells. Her spells are avrage they are spells like Ice and Fire weopon and the Valkyrie summon 
 spell. Her attacks are long ranged (unless you use a spear) but she has limeted ammo. She is slightly 
 more advanced than the palidan but still suitible for beginners.
  
  The Necromancer is a summoner. His skills are with wands, and summoning spells. His spells are 
 the second most powerfull in the game, he raises servents to fight for him. But the Necromancer 
 himself is pretty useless, he is the weakest weopon attacker in the game. I reacomend him to people 
 who are really afraid to get killed, he generally stands back and lets his lackys do his work.
 
  
  There are 4 acts in the game.
  
  Act 1 is a rouge camp where strange things are happening, rouges are just dissappearing, and the 
 more they dissapear the stronger the Maiden of Anguish Andareil gets.
  
  Act 2 is a egyptian type place where some desert temples hold the secrets to defeating th Prince 
 of Pain Dureal.
  
  Act 3 is a swampy area where the few inhabbitants that live there are terrorized by the brother 
 of the devil himself. His name is Mefisto.
  
  Act 4 is a metropolis of people that seem almost celestial. In this act you will eventually get 
 to face Diablo, the Master of all Evil.
  
  The graphics in the game are somewhat dated but the game runs without stalling at all really.
 
  
  The game is difficult and long but most gamers will find this is a worthwile experience.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: analogeist83
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:13 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the base Diablo II about a month ago. This was out of curiosity, and protest. I have 
 friends who still play this game, and also it actually runs on my computer. I have a very high-powered 
 laptop that I got last Christmas, but I can barely play most current games. I makes me furious 
 that PC game developers focus mostly on graphics, and force gamers to drop thousands just to play 
 the games released during the year. Couldn't we just make games more efficiently, and focus on 
 gameplay and story? I remember when you could play most PC games on any regular PC, but those days 
 are over. Richie Rich has taken over PC world. Anyway, Diablo II is a well-made hack-n-slash MMORPG. 
 You can play the story mode alone, but I don't know why you would choose to do that. Play online, 
 level up, get really powerful stuff, and complete more quests. I like how the difficulty increases 
 with each player who joins into the game. Although it is rather annoying when n00bs pop in begging 
 for free stuff. I am definitely a console person, but for those who can't run F. E. A. R. at the highest 
 frame rate, give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewy942
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great investment if your looking for some rpg's for your computer. This game has 
 tons of weapons and many other things like magic, and good modifications to it. There are some 
 letdowns. When attacking someone you only do the same move over and over, The graphics are poor, 
 and movement is sad. Wants you learn everything about the game then it loses its shine. The online 
 experience could be better, I think. The storyline is somewhat good but you have heard of a lot 
 of the things before. I would have to say that the cut scenes have astounding detail and graphics 
 for only 8 mbs of video ram used. the game will last you a while before it bores your brain out 
 unless your like me and you learn everything about out, then it is only fun for about 6 or 7 days. 
 There are so many weapons on just the install but the internet will provide more if you feel it 
 is needed. This game provides the right amound of fun for thoughs rpg lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Briefing for a descent into Hell...
  
  This review doesn't matter. There were 1.5 million pre-orders for Diablo 2 even before it went 
 gold. In its first day in the stores, it sold about 250,000 copies off the shelf. It's already 
 a smash hit and it doesn't need any good reviews for that. Mostly, all this review can do is either 
 validate or rebuke the decision of the millions who have bought the game. Chances are if you are 
 reading this you're wondering if GR thinks that you made the right choice in buying Diablo 2... and 
 most likely sinking hundreds of hours into it in the two weeks it has been out.
  
  To familiarize all three people who never played the original Diablo, Diablo 2 is a hybrid arcade 
 RPG. Played from a 2D isometric perspective, Diablo 2 boils down to a lot of clicking to whack 
 or cast spells, a lot of killing things by aforementioned whacking and casting, and collecting 
 lots and lots of weapons, armor, and other assorted stuff while leveling up and developing your 
 character. It's uncomplicated, straightforward, visceral fun that is much more entertaining in 
 practice than description. It's one of those games that you sit down and play for six hours, thinking 
 you're only taking a 30-minute break.
  
  The original Diablo followed the exploits of a hero who returned to his hometown of Tristram to 
 find it ravaged by the forces of hell. At the heart of this was Diablo, the Lord of Terror, who 
 was holed up in a massive labyrinth beneath the town cathedral. As it turned out, Diablo was contained 
 in a spike-shaped 'Soulstone" that was thrust into the forehead of a small boy, allowing Diablo 
 to possess him and take corporeal form. After killing the scaly critter, our hero thrust the Soulstone 
 into his own forehead, assuming that the ordeal was enough preparation to contain Diablo. He was 
 wrong.
  
  In Diablo 2 you play as a new warrior, either as an Amazon, Barbarian, Necromancer, Paladin, or 
 Sorceress. You must stop "the wanderer," the former warrior with a Soulstone stuck in his head, 
 from loosing hell on earth. Conveniently, his path covers mountain, desert, jungle, something resembling 
 outer space, and hell itself. All manner of hellspawn is left in the Wanderer's wake for you to 
 deal with, thereby making a game of it.
  
  Diablo 2 is a much larger game than the original. It's broken down into four acts, each one taking 
 place in a new locale. Act 1 takes place near Tristram, in the mountain country. Act 2 takes place 
 in the desert near a port called Lut Gholien. Act 3 takes place in the jungles surrounding the 
 ancient city of Kurast, and Act 4 takes place in Hell itself. Each act (aside from the last one) 
 is easily the size of the original Diablo and contains about twice as many items and monsters.
 
  
  Blizzard made claims of there being hundreds of thousands of weapons and items in Diablo 2 and 
 they weren't kidding. Between regular, magical, rare, unique, and set items (varying levels of 
 rarity and exoticness) , there are enough things to preoccupy any in-game collector for years. Much 
 of the draw of Diablo 2 lies in finding new items and their uses. In many ways it's a very capitalistic 
 game of accumulation, trading and power. Very American... err... very good.
  
  To show off all of this combat and collection, Blizzard created a new engine. Although bearing 
 a strong resemblance to the original, there is no loading between levels, world size is greatly 
 increased, graphics are no longer tile-based and there is optional use of 3D accelerators. With 
 a 3D card, lighting effects are added and great use is made of a technique called "Paralaxing," 
 which moves 2D bitmaps in relation to each other to create the illusion of perspective. You can 
 "see around" rocks if you move from side to side or up and down - a 3D feel in 2 dimensions.
  
  The artwork behind all of this is first rate. Backgrounds, monsters, spells, deaths - everything 
 is lusciously rendered in high detail and with great imagination. Blizzard has created a vibrant 
 set of locales for Diablo 2 to call its home.
  
  However, the graphics are somewhat hobbled by the biggest problem with the game. Basically, Diablo 
 2 was designed first and foresmost with the online Battle. net component in mind. On Battle. net 
 (Blizzard's free internet gaming service) you can play cooperatively with others. The single player 
 and multiplayer are so similar that if you were to sign on to Battle. net, create a "1 player server" 
 and play, you would practically be playing the exact same game as single player.
  
  In order to make everything fair, Blizzard locked the resolution at 640x480 so that everyone would 
 have the same viewing distance on screen. It also means that the save system in multiplayer (you 
 save when you exit the game; if you die you have to go back and get your corpse, which can be expensive 
 and frustrating) is there in single player as well.
  
  While this makes perfect sense for multiplayer, there is no good reason they couldn't have altered 
 it for single player in which inter-player fairness is a non-issue. Blizzard forgot, I suppose, 
 that you can make a game that has it both ways, great single player and multi player in which neither 
 mode has to dominate. For a game that was in development for 4 years, such an omission is befuddling.
 
  
  Still, there are more improvements than problems with the game system. Spells are slaved to each 
 level instead of finding a spell book. Enemy behavior is more creative than before. Generally, 
 things actually feel a lot more streamlined than Diablo. Also, the rest of the production values 
 are top flight. Sound and voice is great, and the cinematics are the best in gaming so far.
  
  So, did you do good in buying the game? Sure, it's a fun game. It's engrossing, large, and 
 extremely entertaining. Even if the single player has problems and there are a few bugs, the multiplayer 
 (excluding poor Battle. net performance due to the deluge of players) is great stuff. But you can't 
 help shake the fact that it's so similar to Diablo. It's really not that different and it doesn't 
 show us anything new like its forbearer did. Beyond that, there's a feeling that sinks in after 
 awhile that Diablo was more direct, more enveloping, more focused than Diablo 2.
  
  While this sequel proceeds from the mantra of bigger being better, you can't help but sense that 
 something was lost by the wayside and that Blizzard, being the stellar developer that they are, 
 should try harder for innovative games. We already know they can do solid games as well or better 
 than the rest, but how about something that shakes up the industry instead of something so dependable 
 that it's a Top Ten hit before it's even finished? That's the GR briefing, at least. You can get 
 back to perpetrating the genocide of evil now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnozmeH
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  This game is the reason i didn't have a girlfriend in the past.... nope it's not that good but i 
 can't get my eyes off the screen because it might cause my mana to run out... killin them zombies 
 has had me glued to the mouse button and anyone that truly loves a hack n slashem title can get 
 much more than that with Daiblo II.
  
  Get this game now so u can help me defeat them strong monsters in multi-player. There are son many 
 items, monsters, and skills to be learned in this game, i am now a true fan of the Daiblo franchise...
 
  
  I hear people even get into high payout tournaments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DumassBarb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  A classic that defined what RPG are made of.... repedative gameplay but for itsa time its amazing.
 
  A must buy to any RPG gamer!
  A classic that defined what RPG are made of.... repedative gameplay but for itsa time its amazing.
 
  A must buy to any RPG gamer! A classic that defined what RPG are made of.... repedative gameplay 
 but for itsa time its amazing.
  A must buy to any RPG gamer! A classic that defined what RPG are made of.... repedative gameplay 
 but for itsa time its amazing.
  A must buy to any RPG gamer! A classic that defined what RPG are made of.... repedative gameplay 
 but for itsa time its amazing.
  A must buy to any RPG gamer! A classic that defined what RPG are made of.... repedative gameplay 
 but for itsa time its amazing.
  A must buy to any RPG gamer! A classic that defined what RPG are made of.... repedative gameplay 
 but for itsa time its amazing.
  A must buy to any RPG gamer! A classic that defined what RPG are made of.... repedative gameplay 
 but for itsa time its amazing.
  A must buy to any RPG gamer! A classic that defined what RPG are made of.... repedative gameplay 
 but for itsa time its amazing.
  A must buy to any RPG gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baulxy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Hacking has gotten a little outta hand though. If u play this single player 
 mode. Its good... but if u play this multiplayer mode its great.. Get some friends to play with 
 you.. you can dual them and just have fun doing quest.. The classes are very unique. The barbarian 
 can take alot of hits and just plow through monsters.... the sorceror can cast very long range 
 strong attacks... the necromancer summons the dead.. and the valkarie can shoot multiple long range 
 using her bow. The replay features are also awsome.. I totally recemend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Italia_13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Wow what can I say about Diablo that no one else has? Well I don't think I can say anything other 
 then you can make some killler money off ebay if your good enough. This game has to be the most 
 simplistic yet extremley addictive game ever. If they ever make Diablo 3 and hit its expectations 
 I will probably be one of these stories in the newspaper of people dieing from playing a video 
 game.
  
  This game has been expanded over the years and it just keeps getting better, with uber diablo and 
 ubet tristram, plus tons of new items since the release. I don't think anyone expected Blizzard 
 to have put that much effort into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frickinkid
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  a classic man best game in the world thenexpansion came out now the betterest game... back in the 
 day though.... i think it was a classic adventure game i wish it would have went higher than lvl 
 99 though but hey... i just go to the open battlenet and hack o yeah..... love those xp charms man... o 
 yes
  look for my dude X1334Hax0r o yes necro lvl 2984 o yes im such a freakin cheater but hey i respect 
 the game its self .. but the cow lvl is so lame MOO 
  moo moo moomoo mOOOOOMmmmOOOOOO yesssss..... well hey i gtg ok later c you later sweet cheeks...... 
 jp 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  This was an awesome game from start to finish. 
  At the begining, you chosse what character you wish to battle with:
  
  Amazon : Wood Elf with 
 little HOLY magic, attack with bow and arrow.
  
  Sorceress : Unique witch women with powerful Dark magic.
  
  Necromancer : Has the pwer to manipulate 
 demons and get them to work beside him, attacks with powerful sword with evil dripping from it.
 
  
  Paladin : Skills of sword and shield with lead blessing, killing effectively against the evil dead
 
  
  Barbarian : Super-Human feats of strenght and power, any one to get in his way will be crushed 
 to death.
  
  Each of the 5 characters come with there own strenght and skills which can be increassed during 
 the game play.
  
  Swinging and slashing your sword and magic from town to town unraveling the mystries storys from 
 each town folks.
  
  You soon have a need to go fingure happy on the mouse as your clicking away for surival.
  
 
  incredibal Expansive realms and fiendishly enhanced multiplayer.
  
  Dare you step foot in the realms of the Diablo.!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elchupanebra
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 must be one of the best games ever, because it has been out for some time now and most 
 people I know still play it online and can still get addicted to the game even know they already 
 beaten it. I am still playing it and I have had it for four years. The game is easy to learn so 
 if your a newb you most likely have no problem playing with other people on line. I have played 
 all the characters and they still are not boring. This game is definitely not a waste of money 
 for any one that thinks of buying it. The Graphics should be better but the game play makes it 
 so you do not even think of the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NofrikinfuN
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 5:44 am PT
Review:  Diablo II is one of those games you can finish a hundred times over and still keep playing. In 
 all the years I've owned it, I've played it in cycles spanning months at a time. Whenever I stop 
 playing, I know I'll pick it up again later. It's timeless.
  
  Battle. net and friends to play with really adds to the replay value and turns the game from dungeon 
 crawler into a treasure hunting adventure. You can spend near infinite hours in this game killing 
 enemies over and over, trying to get that one awesome item. I found most of my fun in creating 
 and playing various character builds, trying to see what crazy ways I could take advantage of my 
 characters skillsets.
  
  Diablo II also deserves a special mention for being one of the few games still playable on 28.8k 
 dialup. (The forgotten connection speed.)
  
  Definitely worth a buy, especially since you can get it with the expansion and original Diablo 
 for $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer_marc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:46 am PT
Review:  Diablo II is the squel 2 Blizzard's Diablo. In D2 you must kill the 3 Prime Evils or Hell will 
 rule the world. The 3 Prime Evils are Diablo, Baal, and Mephisto . There are 5 characters to choose 
 from. The Sorceres is a master of elemental magic. The Barbarian is a master of melee combat. The 
 Paladin, a master at holy combat. The Necromancer a guy who can make dead guys come 2 life. And 
 the Amazon is the best in bow and spear combat. There are 4 acts to track down Diablo and his bros. 
 One escapes. There are very cool items. The sound is very very good. And the Multiplayer is even 
 better. On Battle. net you can meet with other players and kill Diablo and other act bosses. The 
 downside is that you lag on battle. net. Every character has 30 skills to kill more cooler then 
 just hacking the bad guys to death. I musta have spent over 900 hours on Diablo II and Diablo II 
 : LOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvercat2142
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Blizzard does it again, spits out another amazing game!!! Diablo II out does the name of the 
 original Diablo and just makes an eimpire of its own, 99levels, 5 classes, 4 acts, what comes close? 
 This game is truly amazing, the graphics are good and the way you can make you character look is 
 dare i say it... wicked sweet.... i do not know where they get their ideas and their pure talent 
 at making games this good, no other company comes close. People will be talking about this as one 
 of the best RPGs of all time in 50 years if you ask me which you probably wont but hey.... Now 
 the next step is keeping it going with Diablo II: LoD, can they do it? we will all have to wait 
 and see, in the mean time ill be leveling my currently 89 bowzon and 76 sorc come find me!! U. S. 
 West!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links24
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This is one computer mmorpg to get and never come out of your house again! The gameplay is awsome 
 and the graphics are a little old but still cool looking! The leveling up, the side quests, and 
 the different types of warrior you are will keep you playing! This game also scares the crap out 
 of you with the dark areas and the scary ass enemies! You can play multiplay online with friends 
 and go on a killing spree to level up or just but a ,SUCKY!. mercenary! You can use magic, swords, 
 axes, bring back the dead to fight aside you, bow and arrows, and much more! This is a great RPG 
 and a must buy for anybody!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XTheUnionX
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 Is An Amazing Game By Yesterday's Standerds, And Is Still A Fairly Solid Game Today. The 
 First Time Through The Game Is Amazing, With New Creatures, Items And Quests Filling The Levels. 
 Online Play Is Rather Poor Due To The Fact Most Servers Are Trading Or "Cow-Level" Servers. Graphics 
 and Gameplay Leave Something To be Desired, But It Is A Great Game No The Less.
  
  Downsides Include Glitches, Repetatve Kills/Monsters, And Lack Of True Gaming Servers. After The 
 First Time Through The Game, You Must Repeat The SAME Game Just On Different Difficulties. Monsters 
 Become Repetative (EX. Fallen Are Red/Carvers Are Blue Fallen) . Because This Is A Fairly Cheap 
 Game, You Should Buy It, But If It Costs Over $35, It's A Rip Off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akr321
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:37 am PT
Review:  This game is everything Diablo was meant to be. Long, addictive, fast-paced and a whole lot of 
 fun. It also had much more added depth, especially because of the skill tree system, which actually 
 allowed five classes to be balanced such that each was a totally different experience! Online play 
 on battle. net is HUGE fun, and the game has great replay value, such that I've been playing it 
 for a good 3 years!
  It's only weak points are the low-res graphics, and that it's not as scary as the first one was, 
 and a whole lot more forgiving with death andd gold, etc.
  It's still one of my all-time favourite games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:21 am PT
Review:  If you ask any serious PC games about the greatest game ever made, he will probably say: FPS? Quake. 
 Strategy? Civilization. RPG? Diablo? Maybe, but one thing's for sure: Diablo II injects adrenaline 
 into its predecessor and is one of the most addictive games you'll ever play.
  
  Lets get over with the graphics for thats the easiest part. Forget the graphics! They look dated 
 and offer a slight improvement over Diablo. Period.
  
  Sound is excellent with amazing voice-overs and great effects. The hack-n-slash action has never 
 been so exciting! Sounds of bruises and cuts and creatures probe your nightmares to hell! Music 
 is also appropriate and atmospheric but low key.
  
  Now when it comes to gameplay, some people are still playing this as we speak! And why not? The 
 variety of characters (5 in all) , and the variety in the difficulty levels (from normal to nightmare 
 to hell!) , apart from the utterly addictive online play Need I say more? Go and play this game 
 now! And forget all other next-gen games Diablo II deserves to be played by everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fougera
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Well I thought Diablo was amazing, then Diablo II came out and I was like, sweet. The expansion 
 of multiplayer capacity was really nice, going from four to eight, and adding two character classes 
 while changin the original three a little bit. The game grew even bigger, making for even more 
 killing and destruction, and then bigger rewards afterwards. The amount of items was crazy, going 
 from what little they had in Diablo, to multiplying that by a bunch, and ending up with a whole 
 plethora of items to use. The skills were more specific to each class, then within each class they 
 had three sub-classes, which made for more and more fun gameplay. This sequel did a good job of 
 showing up its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscougar1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:24 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. It is revolutionary in the way it creates an RPG and gets you 
 involved on how the story pans out for you and how the character evolves to suit you. The characters 
 are amazing and all unqiue, they have their own special skills and abilities that evolve and grow 
 as you evolve and grow. You have strengths and weaknesses that you can fine tune as you get better 
 and you start to realise you have to play on your own characters strengths and weakness but at 
 the same time make them strong in all aspects. This game has been endless fun and i havent totally 
 finished it yet. So much to do and fins, items and enemies galore! This game is an instant classic 
 and i recommend it to all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAXrules757
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This is the most addictive game I have ever imagined. It will take time out of your life. It can 
 be replayed unlimited times, with different results each time. Playing through the whole game once 
 takes around 20 hours, but there 7 characters and each one can be used in about 5 different ways. 
 This brings up thousends of hours. You won't spend that much time of course, but it wouldn't be 
 surprising if someone did if they had enough free time. It has so many replayable things to do, 
 and find and explore. Items can always get better and skills can get better and your character 
 more original. An apsolutly must play for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegetaforever
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game along with it's first game, Diablo 1 was a brilliant game to ever be made.
  
  I've played all 3 generations of DIablo: Diablo 1, 2, and LoD and have loved everyone of them.
 
  
  More then what Diablo 1, but has less then what LoD has.
  
  I suggest that you buy all 3 just to see what each has, you'll be surprise at what you see and 
 play.
  
  Get all 3 to get the full effect!
  
  Read my reviews on Diablo 1 and LoD to get the real scoop on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtavciscool
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 17, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 was great. But LOD made it better. Featuring 2 new character classes and additional attacks, 
 and an extra act, Diablo 2 LOD is a must have for any Blizzard fans. Diablo 2 features both a single 
 player mode and a multiplayer mode in which you go onto blizzard's battle. net to play with other 
 people or your friends. Each room can support 8 people in multiplayer, and you can either all team 
 up and go against the forces of Diablo or do it all by yourself. There's 3 difficulty levels: Normal, 
 Nightmare, Hell. can't . In each difficulty, the enemies don't get boosts in how they fight, only 
 SIGNIFICANT boosts to their HP, Life, Resistances, and the damage that they do in one hit. There's 
 4 Acts, each with a very captivating story. Gameplay is sort of 2D/3D overhead view. This game 
 is mainly about creating your characters (i think 7 or 8 character classes to create in the expansion) , 
 getting them to high levels, and equipping them with the best items you can find (usually dropped 
 by monsters) . With godly items equipped, you can enter hell difficulty no sweat. If for instance, 
 you're a level 90+ and enter hell difficulty, you'll die insanely fast, especially when you're 
 facing more than one enemy.
  
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  Awesome graphics for Cinematics, however gameplay graphics needs improvement. Although cheap graphics 
 prevents lags on battle. net, Blizzard has done a good job in rendering the 2D/3Dish world of Diablo 
 2. 8/10
  
  
  
  Sound:
  
  Decent sounds and BGM suitable for the series. This is no ordinary game music, it sounds like orchestral 
 music. 9/10
  
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Very addicting gameplay, especially when . However, after many months of playing Diablo 2 LOD, 
 it gets sort of boring, and you won't want to pick it up again. 8/10
  
  
  
  Value:
  
  Awesome value... if you buy the Diablo 2 Battle chest which provides you with all the CDs for 
 Diablo 1, Diablo 2 and Diablo 2 LOD along with all the stategy guides, and the manual. Thus, 9/10
 
  
  
  
  Overall:
  
  8.9/10 Highly addictive gameplay, however, the repetitive gameplay with different classes of characters 
 leads to boredom, especially when you don't have luck finding any good/god items using high magic 
 find %.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollow9
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 15, 2005 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredibly fun and worth the money you spent on it. Battle. net is great and I've recently 
 started playing again, but now i'm playing on ladder. So if anyone can help me out on ladder, my 
 account is Hollow99
  
  This game is incredibly fun and worth the money you spent on it. Battle. net is great and I've recently 
 started playing again, but now i'm playing on ladder. So if anyone can help me out on ladder, my 
 account is Hollow99
  
  This game is incredibly fun and worth the money you spent on it. Battle. net is great and I've recently 
 started playing again, but now i'm playing on ladder. So if anyone can help me out on ladder, my 
 account is Hollow99
  
  This game is incredibly fun and worth the money you spent on it. Battle. net is great and I've recently 
 started playing again, but now i'm playing on ladder. So if anyone can help me out on ladder, my 
 account is Hollow99
  
  This game is incredibly fun and worth the money you spent on it. Battle. net is great and I've recently 
 started playing again, but now i'm playing on ladder. So if anyone can help me out on ladder, my 
 account is Hollow99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeshwent
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 7:27 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is the sequel of Diablo 1 and has worked some great wonders for the Blizzard Entertainment 
 and is better than its predecessor in many ways. Firstly, let me explain that what is Diablo 
 2 all about? The game is actually divided into 4 parts or acts. You are placed as different character 
 classes (Amazon, Paladin, Barbarian, Necromancer and Sorceress) in a world that is populated with 
 evil creatures and spirits who are all out to kill you.
  
  The game offers a large set of weapons and armory, which are also offered with a large variety 
 of stats. There is a whole lot of magic in this game and it includes a lot of violence and blood 
 everywhere. The AI of the monsters is good and the game gets tougher and tougher as you advance 
 to the final stages. 
  
  The character classes have their own strengths and weaknesses. For example Amazon expertise in 
 javelin and archery whereas Necromancer raises evil spirits to fight for him.
  
  
  The game also forces you to interact with NPC` s (Non Player Characters) . They give you some quests 
 and offer you rewards on their completion. Though these quests may sound like GTA jobs but there 
 is a lot of difference between quests and jobs. These quests are even tougher and much longer than 
 the jobs of GTA. Moreover the quests are few in number (3 each in Act1, 2, 3 and 3 in Act 4) . The 
 final quest of each act consists of killing the boss or the main monster of the act. The game does 
 offer more surprises once you complete the game. The NPC` s are excellently voiced and created.
 
  
  The only problem with Diablo 2 is its outdated graphics. The graphics is not as good as it should 
 be but the gameplay and sound cover up for it. Blizzard like Westwood is well known for creating 
 excellent multiplayer system for its games like Diablo 1, Warcraft, Starcraft etc.
  
  Diablo 2 multiplayer is also very good as it provides many players to fight on the single player 
 maps as an individual or as a team. The multiplayer trading system of Diablo 2 is also very interesting. 
 
  
  Overall, Diablo 2 is an excellent game, which creates a whole new world of excitement and adventure. 
 It is a must buy game for anyone who loves action/adventure games and also for other people who 
 like Star Wars etc. because Diablo 2 is a certainly enjoyable gaming experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theWAVE81
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  It's the perfect game to slay zombies, talk with your friends, duel, trade, and other things. Diablo 
 2 is a must have for every PC owner out there. It's kinda rare but you'll find it. But there's 
 only one reason to buy Diablo 2 - It's the best game of our millineum. And there's only one word 
 to define Diablo 2 - perfect... So buy the freakin' game. BUY IT! I SAID BUY IT!!! So buy it and 
 your gonna be at your PC for the rest of your life... literally. You will buy this game, like it, 
 and play with it every single day of your 80-year life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 29, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  It has been years since this game came out and yet we stil see it on the shelves. That is because 
 it can easily compete for the greatest game of all time title. 
  
  I know many people who dont even like the genre of game Diablo is in - but were blown away by the 
 gameplay - replayability - interface ... so on. 
  
  Everyone knows what the game is about so im not going to go into any details here. BUT what I want 
 to stress is this - - - - This game set the pace for every game not only in the genre but all games. 
 It showed that the quality of the game, the effort and time spent developing - sets the tone at 
 which it is going to be perceved for decades. 
  
  Blizzard proves it over and over again - now with World of Warcraft - which you can directly tell 
 was based on the foundations of Diablo1/2. 
  
  World of Warcraft has become a worldly game that has AGAIN set the bar high. The players now will 
 compare future games to World of Warcraft. Every company knows that if they want appeal to the 
 masses - they will be compared to WoW just like all games were compared to Diablo - and still are.
 
  
  If you havent ever played Diablo - to this day I would suggest you try it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_Blu3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Diablo revolutionised the RPG genre and by making click and point gameplay seem very awsome in 
 a great aspect. Diablo didn`t just revolutionise the genre, but it made a new genre, the action 
 RPG. Diablo2 is the sequel to that game and it`s alot better then the first in every aspect.
  
  Diablo2`s gameplay is almost the same as the first, you click (try not to brake you finger) 
 and attack, but Diablo2`s gameplay is more advanced and a little bit less "more mouse, less keyboard". 
 If you want to use the mouse only, that is going to be hard. You have to click a selection menu 
 that pops up when you click the arrow at the middle of your HP and MP stats to bring up the inventory, 
 charecter stats, ect. screen. Also, you can`t talk on B. net unless you press "enter". Speaking 
 of B. net (which is better then ever) , there is a thing called a "party system" which you use join 
 or invite other people on a server to join your party. Why should you let people join yours or 
 his/her party? Simply, other party members with you can get expierience, for example, if someone 
 in your party kills an enemy, everyone, even you, will get expierence. So, it isn`t like "Hey, 
 you killed that monster I was going to kill, now I`m not going to get expierence!". Blizzard worked 
 hard to make internet fair and friendly as possible, and all that work was a succses.
  
  Diablo`s graphics were a complete blow away. There were great CGs, amazing 2D enviroments, and 
 astonishing 3D models that came to life by just walking around. Diablo2`s visuals have been enchanced 
 and look alot more crisped then the first. You`ll see alot more better lighting, better animation 
 from enemies and charecters, and fresher enviroments. If you have a nice system, you can run the 
 game on Direct3D. This alowes 3D enviroments with the lighting still put in, but if you don`t mind 
 major lagging of seeing monsters and looking at your map in 3D enviroments, your going to see some 
 serious slow down which makes playing seem like a deadly virus in your veins. Many people (even 
 Blizzard) , recommend to run the game on 2D enviroments. Diablo2`s sound is flawless. Blizzard did 
 an amazing job with the voice acting, musical score, and effects. You`ll hear monsters growling, 
 friends (in town) talking in an amazing folklore way, magic spells pounding, and swords crashing 
 on to shields. 
  
  As I said a few minutes ago, Diablo2 has a very addicting expierence. Leveling up, getting better 
 armor, and finding gold never seems to get old. If your in a max 8 player, partied, server that 
 is going thru the last dungeon, trying to fight the final boss, then your going to have a blast. 
 But, if your fighting alone, the game will still be fun, but hard at the same time.
  
  If you love RPGs, then your going to love the game till the end of time. But, if your not an RPG 
 guy and likes action, you will love this game also. If you like differnt genres like sports, strategy, 
 and puzzles, your not going to grow fond with this game. This is a message to RPG lovers: If you 
 love RPGs, entierly, this will be the best game to have in your PC collection. Period.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2005 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Before there was World of Warcraft, Diablo 2 was the rpg people played with the Blizzard logo. 
 Although Diablo 2 had singleplayer and no monthly fee, its generally considered that the game was 
 a miniature mmorpg. Up to 8 players could party up and tackle quests and unique challenges in their 
 own public or private game, trade magical or set armor or weapons, and duel one another in tense, 
 often very quick pvp battles. This game is known for its addictive qualities. Players would dungeon 
 crawl the same areas hour after hour just to find "phat lewt" and gain experience so they could 
 spend skill points on cool, powerful new spells and masteries. The amount of special, named items 
 in this game was truely spectacular; they even outnumber the amount of magic, rare, and epic weapons 
 and armor in WoW. People would even sell their godly finds from hell mode baal runs on ebay and 
 make money to pay off their bills or credit card accounts, giving up their job and everything to 
 become virtual, self-sustained merchants. Diablo 2 simply hooked people, whether they were 8 years 
 old or 50 years old. 
  
  However, with this much attention, the community started to tear down the magical atmosphere of 
 this multiplayer rpg. Hackers, looking for quick ways to get first place on the ladder, forged 
 fake accounts with insane stats and fake equips. Almost corporate companies took over the D2 market 
 and passed out godly armor sets to ordinary people for measily amounts of cash. Soon, everyone 
 was wearing the tal rasha or immortal kings sets, which were designed to be very rare drops by 
 blizzard. In search of faster ways to level up alts, people invented the repetitive, exploit-like 
 concept of baal runs, which left the rest of the game completely ignored since people would gain 
 a level every 10 minutes from standing on at the side of a room doing nothing. Leveling up a character 
 in Diablo 2 turned from a wonderful, fun filled adventure into a boring, predictable task. Unfortunately, 
 WoW is following the same route, as "worldofwarcraftlegit" sites and ebay users are popping up 
 all over the web selling unique bind on equips, gold, and lvl 60 accounts to ordinary men and women 
 for cheap prices.
  
  So is World of Warcraft following in the footsteps of Diablo 2's legacy? Yes, for the better and 
 the worst. World of Warcraft is still a better, more popular game to play today, but if you don't 
 want to ditch 15 dollars a month to play a video game and if you don't like guild wars for its 
 lack of attention to customization and leveling up, then Diablo 2 is still a decent alternative. 
 Many people still play D2 today, both ladder and non ladder, and the characters seem much more 
 balanced in Diablo 2 than world of warcraft atm. D2 is a classic, and even those who aren't getting 
 bored of WoW who never played Diablo should give the game a whirl, even if it is just to better 
 understand the heritage of role playing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KKx2000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2005 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II, is a game not like any other. It does not have some of the new features the latest games 
 have. And still, it prevails. Blizzard wowed gamers years ago with a game that made action fans 
 take a look at RPGs and vice versa. What Blizzard did for RPGs what they did for RTS with Warcraft: 
 Easy, intuitive, and impossible to stop playing. As soon as the original came they began clamouring 
 for a sequal. Diablo II is like any other Blizzard Entertainment product a 'success'. As you might 
 remember Diablo was unleashed to stores far and wide, gaming publications scores were high'd. A 
 marathon of clicking this Diablo was, but it sold nonetheless due to pre-release buzz. Now years 
 have passed, Diablo's been beat, and now Diablo 2. They story behind the game is very good, some 
 stupid things occur like "a bunch of strangers send you on dangerous quests and then act pleasantly 
 surprised when you return safely (but you just know they're really thinking, "Blast! Foiled again!") . 
 I can sometimes forgive bad plots in games, but only if the game has enough redeeming qualities 
 to make up for the lack of a good story. Diablo both failed and succeeded. The control is basic 
 as can be; witch is great if you're interested in ease of use, but not if youre in to depth. Diablo 
 2 have some great qualities, quite enough to make up for its shortcomings. And every once in a 
 while it resembles something fun, and there are some cool pseudo-3D effects in the game. Also to 
 be noticed, are the fun and smart endearing references to the original game (see the city of Tristram 
 for some good examples) , and a few monsters explode pretty nice.
  
  Graphics: 6
  The graphics are not that good at all. Still their simplicity helped out 'allot and remains nice 
 that way throughout the game. Some of the 3D graphics are horrible such as your characters movement. 
 Now the graphic is nothing to admire, but still it's actually quite good. The dungeons are extremely 
 well designed giving this an extra point. The characters look quite bad; some of the 3D graphics 
 are bad. But the magical skill effects are truly wonderful, I believe. And despite its lack of 
 the latest graphics, it remains as one of the most played RPGs in the world. Compete with that. 
 Also the cinematic's are truly wonderful and they add an extra point to this soup of graphical 
 errors.
  
  Plot: 8
  The plot overall is quite good. But still it has bad spots. As I said before it's a bunch of strangers 
 send you on dangerous quests. Actually very silly and not very interesting. Note that this game 
 looks great at first, but when you get further ahead you will start to notice these flaws. Like 
 there is no basic point for some time, Act 1, 2, 3 is all about killing some stupid minions that 
 'what'? But the story and the cinematic's make up for this. The history behind it all and the history 
 unfolded as you succeed throughout the game, fascinating. After seeing the cinematic after the 
 2ond act, you get so interested you can't take your hands off the mouse. You just keep clicking 
 and before you know it, the game is over. Luckily you can play in nightmare mode as well, and is 
 that for you to succeed even further in levels and get better equipment. There is not much more 
 to this, it's obvious that the stories and cut scenes that drive the game forward and link the 
 various Acts are superbly done and contribute in some way to dispelling the "nothing but a click 
 fest" label that the Diablo games have been cast as. The game's story is originality at its best: 
 the return of the previous game's main threat for no tangible reason. You begin the game in a Rogue 
 Encampment in the West, where a local trader's route east is blocked by a spider-looking chick. 
 Before you can defeat her and clear the trader's path east-ward, you must perform many random, 
 life-threatening deeds that are thrust upon you by strangers. These strangers are obviously intent 
 on killing those they don't know by giving them tedious and potentially deadly tasks to complete. 
 I'm all for a bad story and incoherent quests (wait a minute... no I'm not) , but this is ridiculous. 
 It suck's, it's fighting over a lolly pop.
  
  
  Gameplay: 7
  The gameplay itself is nothing great, it's a click fest. The controls are as basic as can be. That 
 can ruin the game; in this case Im not sure in witch direction it leans. But considering this 
 the one of the most addictive games I have played along with StarCraft (1998) I cannot help myself 
 giving this a good rating. I am one of a thousand that are or were addictive to the game. And though 
 the gameplay is nothing special itself there are some neat things to it. The battle system is quite 
 simple, like the rest of the game. But the battle system is also good. The spells are great, I 
 like them, love them. Though it's lack of modern technology as I have pointed out before the gameplay 
 still works out. Many spells and abilities are only available at level 30 or above and to fully 
 appreciate these players are encouraged to move on to nightmare and hell modes in order to fully 
 develop their characters. Indeed, the most powerful weapons and items are only available in these 
 harder game modes and because of this Diablo2's replay ability factor is very high. The 4 character 
 classes are both well balanced and varied enough that strategies that prove effective for one character 
 class often prove disastrous for another. While Necromancers and Barbarians are traditionally the 
 dominant classes, Blizzard has gone some way to levelling the playing field with their patch. The 
 future certainly looks bright. Giving this 2 extra points for sure. Diablo II is disarmingly addictive 
 and it comes as a breath of fresh air in a crowded field of first person shooters and real time 
 strategies that after a while begin to blend together in mimetic mediocrity.
  
  Sound/Music: 3
  I admit that despite my love for the game, the music is horrible. It is utterly 
 forgettable because it never helps to make any of the scenes more intense or enjoyable. It's just 
 mundane background music that fails to do what game music is supposed to do: enhance the feel of 
 the game. Some of the voices are acceptable and helping this rating a bit. And then I mostly refer 
 to the 'stupid people who send you on quest's'.
  
  Technically this game is not the greates but i love it. And if you play it you will find it highly 
 addictive. I can't recommend this game enough. So if your looking for a great hack'n'slash game, 
 Diablo II is your game.
  
  
  -Kristfer K. a. k. a KKx2000 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilfred_Owen
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 26, 2005 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Now when I first played Diablo II, it was a great game. But going back a second time to play it, 
 its just not that great of a game. Its good but not great, it could have been much better. Diablo 
 II was just really boring a second time through, not to mention battle. net is now full of 13 year 
 olds who are immature and bots that just keep spamming the whole time. Diablo has great features 
 but there are no combo moves and everybody follows the same exact path as everyone else, which 
 really makes the game dull and medicore.
  
  This game can be very addictive if you let it. But if you want some real RPG action, Diablo won't 
 give it you. This game is more of a hack and slash than an actual real RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thestergin
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2005 1:50 am PT
Review:  Well it all started when I went to my friends house for a Halo 2 party, for his birthday, and I 
 saw this game on his pc and started playing it. I did not go to bed till 3 in the morning. The 
 gameplay in this game is one of the best in the rpg genre. You can choose from a variety of skills 
 from 5 different people, 7 in the expansion. And the only bad thing about it is the graphics which 
 are over shadowed by how VIEWTIFUL this game is. It has thousands of items in it and being able 
 to here your enemies scream in pain is a very nice little add on.
  this game is awesome and if you love rpgs with all your heart you will play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2005 9:25 pm PT
Review:  One of the most well known games known to all gamers. A game that has impacted many players, into 
 the world of chatting, trading, and working with one another. Diablo 2 had it all that any true 
 gamer could ask for. The sound was superb, the story was very well done and well thought out. I 
 enojoyed how you were able to play the game as just a typical action adventure game, or you could 
 play it like a campaign. If the game seemed to challenging for you, you were able to have other 
 people come aid you. Definetly people find in this game, to be a very good variety, and for all 
 those cheaters out there, you can just play on open bnet and for people that dont enjoy cheating 
 and like to play games the way the were ment to be played then you can play closed bnet. Trading 
 and discussing your items is always a great feature, that you don't really find in other games. 
 Diablo 2 is a one of a kind, and to this day is still being played by the masses. So i suggest 
 if your anyone that enjoys a game that captivates you for a very long time, then buy this if you 
 know whats good for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2005 1:18 am PT
Review:  Diablo II doesn't venture far from the formula of the first and manages to make an excellent sequel 
 to one of the best games out today. Everything we enjoyed in the original has been vastly improved 
 to make an even more addicting game than the first.
  
  While it has been improved, the Graphics just are not up to the standards of when it was released. 
 The're not horrible at all but they're almost a little 'cute' compared to the original. Not to 
 the extent of Darkstone's Graphics, but to the point where the Graphics just don't give the 'creepy' 
 atmosphere like the original Diablo had. An argument can be made that they atleast make Diablo 
 II it's own game, and not just an imitation of the first, but I honestly believe the creepy atmosphere 
 in Diablo was one of the things that made Diablo such a great title.
  
  Sound also has the same problem. Not bad in it's own right, but ventures too far away from the 
 original's style and again the atmosphere suffers because of it. However, those are just my personal 
 opinion and indeed the Graphics and Sound may not bother you what-so-ever. I just believe the 'creepy' 
 atmosphere was what made Diablo *Diablo*. 
  
  Now, the gameplay. What made the original great was carried over and increased greatly. Instead 
 of three characters, we now have five. All Characters have numerous skills to increase and enough 
 to make you be able to make certain character types out of the main class. For instance, you could 
 have a Necro who summons to kill his enemies, or you can specialize in curses to beat your enemies, 
 or use 'Bone Skills' (Necro's offensive skills) , and finally, you could just make a combination 
 of all three. Because of this Diablo II is an extremely replayable game and, indeed, you will be 
 replaying it quite often.
  
  As you undoubtedly know, Diablo II is a Hack n' Slash and one great enough that it quite possible 
 will never be beat. The controls are perfect and fluid and makes the game extremely easy to play. 
 What you tell your character to do, they do. No waiting for a certain time (though some spells 
 do have casting delays) before starting a move. Just an action performed when the mouse is clicked. 
 The reason I stress this is because I have never found a game that has the response time of controls 
 that Diablo II does and have had to reduce scores for other games because of it.
  
  As with any Hack n' Slash, there's got to be a reason to continue Hacking and Slashing and Diablo 
 II provides that. The original Diablo only let you reach level 50 but in Diablo II you can now 
 reach level 99. This will keep you playing for quite a while just to see how high you can get. 
 With each new level you get skill points to distribute to certain skills which makes leveling that 
 much more fun, not just raising stats. Also, many quests give you more skill points to use and 
 make you try and rush off towards the next quest.
  
  The next reason is items. Items Items Items. There has been a SIGNIFICANT improvement in the quantity 
 and quality of items. You'll find many normal items, magic items, a new type called 'rare' items, 
 another new type called set items, and what we all like to find, unique items. Rare items are just 
 an improved 'magic' item with more and better attributes and bonuses. Uniques, as always, have 
 the best bonuses and attributes and are what we all stop whatever we're doing just to pick it up. 
 Set items are a collection of various different items that, when all used at once or in certain 
 combinations, give more bonuses outside of what the normal items give.
  
  Multiplayer is also vastly improved. There were less cheaters when the game came out, but at the 
 time of this writing the game was infested with hacked items and cheaters. Regardless, Multiplayer 
 is a much more enjoyable experience. Eight players can now join a game, over the original's four) . 
 You can also 'team' up with certain players of your choosing and when fighting together, gain experience 
 from the monsters those players kill.
  
  As with the original, Diablo II is one of the most addicting games out today and as such I can 
 recommend it to about anyone. I stand by what I said earlier and firmly believe Diablo II is a 
 Hack n' Slash game that won't be bettered for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolarisDeschain
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2005 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, considering that my last review was of the PC great Diablo, logic says that Diablo 2 is rather 
 probable as a follow-up. Well, thats right. Today I review Diablo 2, and trust me, it is good.
 
  
  The gameplay is exactly the same as the first one, for the most part. There are some improvements. 
 You can hire and level up an assistant for every place, gamble for either rare items, useless items, 
 sometimes even magically imbued ones. The gameplay works in perfectly with the story, which is 
 the perfect sequel. A group of people find themselves drawn into a search for the Hero of Tristram, 
 the person who liberated the town and defeated The Lord of Terror. In a dark adventure sprawling 
 over several areas of the world you track him, battling through his minions like you wouldnt believe. 
 Spells and leveling are done different from before as well. You get spells to pick as you gain 
 a level, and how close you are to gaining a level is conveniently placed on a bar at the bottom 
 of the screen. Stamina is a nice touch, too. Oh, and if your assistant dies, you can always resurrect 
 him/her at the place where you hired them. There are just enough new features to keep the game 
 from getting old, keeping the gameplay where it began for me.
  
  Some might say the graphics look a bit dated, but I dont really think so. They look nice, and 
 they flow rather smoothly. The cutscenes are wonderfully directed, and the graphics look great 
 on them as well. The character and enemy designs are wonderful, as are the boss designs. Looking 
 at the slug demon Duriel and gazing upon Diablo again is wonderful. However, from time to time, 
 especially in the desert, there is grain. Not good grain, like you normally see in movies, and 
 in games like Manhunt, but vision-impairing, piss-you-off grain. It detracts from the experience, 
 of course, to say the least, but whatever, youll probably be able to deal, graphics arent to 
 be the selling feature of a game anyway.
  
  The sound on the game is great. Its great, but its not superb or perfect. The score is some more 
 in the same vein, and is great to hear, but invokes less emotion than the music in the original. 
 The monsters still die the same. The weapons still make the same crunching blow, but once youve 
 heard it before, youve heard it before. Its nothing new. When you or your partner dies, its 
 the same deal, you scream and you die. Now, Im not saying that there is anything wrong with this; 
 Im not saying they should have switched to a techno soundtrack. Now that you mention itheh-heh. 
 Anyway, the sound is good, but its not anything Id go out to buy a soundtrack from.
  
  The replay value for this game is, for all intents and purposes, unending. You have several character 
 classes to play as. Five, I think. Thats five different ways to beat the game. You can take each 
 of these characters in a million different directions. You can play over Battle. net forever, getting 
 several online characters of each class. Then, after returning 3-4 years later to beat Diablo, 
 I strongly recommend you promptly experience the story of Diablo 2 once more.
  
  Finally, Diablo 2 is another wonderful experience from Blizzard Entertainment, one of the vanguard 
 developers out there today. If everything they put out is as good as this or its predecessor, and 
 they are for the most part, they will be around forever. While Diablo 2 acts as the big budget 
 sequel to an indie classic, it retains the originality and heart to make it a wonderful game, and 
 a worthy sequel to the original.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KRAZY_JACK
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2005 12:08 am PT
Review:  The only good demon is a dead demon and that is how the game is meant to be. Here is the break 
 down:
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 I just can't stress enough how great of a game it is. The main factors that play 
 are that it has replayability. You can make one character of say paladin class, then you can make 
 a nother paladin and get a totally new expeirience. The best part of it is playing on Battle. net 
 with others. 
  
  Graphics: 10/10 The graphics are marvelous. The monsters look great and the levels look good. The 
 weapons look fantastic. When you kill a monster the blood, spirit, anything looks great.
  
  Sound: 10/10 The music is great, the sound effects of gurguling monsters with blood in their throat 
 sounds great. The environment sounds of birds, crickets, and any other animal that may be out there 
 makes the game come to life.
  
  Overall it is the greatest game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Attunnel
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2005 3:27 am PT
Review:  This is probably my most favorite game of all time. It is just so fun and addicting, I still can't 
 believe how great this game is. This game is soo extremely replayable. Leveling up your character 
 and collecting items is endlessly fun. The online community is also great, it has a friends list 
 for online. So you can contact that person as long as they're online. As you play online you begin 
 to learn how to build your character, and soon enough they become nearly invincible, or just godly. 
 What do you do with these godly characters you ask? Well, you duel of course, sometimes killing 
 people to take their gold, and sometimes dueling for items or just to prove how great you are.
 
  
  Be warned though, this game is really really addicting. NO JOKE!!! If you buy this, expect to lose 
 one year of your life. It's definetly replayable if you play non stop for a year. The only down 
 side to this game though is the graphics, which is too bad because this game would have been a 
 little bit more replayable, and the learning curve can be quite steep, it may not seem like it, 
 but to become really good at the game it is a very steep learning curve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4Justin
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2. Translation: Devil. It all makes sense for those who have played it. This game makes 
 you feel like your against the world. And you pretty much are against Diablo him self and Baal 
 and Mephisto. They are his brothers and are very powerful indeed.
  
  In Diablo 2 there are but 4 acts, acts 1-3 have 8 quests. And the forth and final act has 3. Its 
 very very addictive. I played it for 8 hours straight when i got it. And thats highly unusual. 
 You are able to play with 5 characters in this game. The Amazon who is good wit bows & arrows, 
 spears, and other's. Then thers the necromancer, his abilites able him to raise the dead making 
 him a force to be reckoned with. Theres also a Sorceress. Power over the elements. Ice, fire, and 
 lightning. Very dangerous but wicked awesome. Then theres the Paladan he has powers to increase 
 abilities such as attack and defence or his resistances. Also a healer. And finally there is the 
 oh so powerful Barbarian! He truely dominates with an iron fist. He relys on brute strengh. And 
 it works. These characters make up Diablo.
  
  There are also many enemys. Like diablo him self who is the final monster you will destroy before 
 advancing. Once you have beatin Diablo, you will go on to a harder version of the game. There are 
 three difficulty's you have to beat. Normal, Nightmare, and Hell. Each setting harder than the 
 next. Normal is pretty easy once you get to Nightmare and Hell. On hell the monsters have ALOT 
 of resistances. Almost all of them have freeze resistance. Which is bad for the Ice Sorceresses. 
 But thats okay because each character has 100 levels to choose skills from, and then some. Each 
 level you grow you get a new skill. And you set them to make them stronger or get new abilities. 
 You also get stat points to upgrade your character. As you level up it gets harder to get to the 
 next level.
  
  On the online play where you play with many other people. You can team up with your friends or 
 others to beat diablo and his minions!!! It's a great asset because sometimes one is just not enough. 
 If your all alone dont worry there's always help for you. In the town there is atleast one person 
 you can go to, to hire some one to help you fight off monsters. In act 4 though this is not true. 
 Although for the Necromancer thats pretty much all he has (some times) He is able to summon monsters 
 as long as there are dead ones around. He is able to summon Golems, Skeletons, Mages, and even 
 revive ones just as they are. If you dont want him for that he also has very power magic too.
 
  
  Each act's town has a name. Act I's name is the Rouge Camp, Act II is the Lut Gholein, Act III 
 is the Kurast Docks, and Act IV is the Pandemonium Fortress. You must advance to each Act to get 
 to the next town. Act IV is the act you fight diablo. It is very tough to do it alone. But it is 
 possible. 
  
  Its very very addictive. I played it for 8 hours straight when i got it. And thats highly unusual. Diablo 
 is absolutely worth every penny. Believe me if you get it you will be playing it for a good long 
 time. Like i said its addicting. You just want to keep on leveling, and try new powers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optophobic
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 27, 2005 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I said this game isn't really an rpg. Why?
  
  To start off, the game is too linear. In the first game (as in Fallout, Arcanum, and other great 
 rpgs on the PC) you have a choice of where to go, what to do, and what to say. Well, in the first 
 you don't have the choice of where to go, but you can say differen things to different people. 
 If you want to be a jerk, you can. The same with all those other games I mentioned.
  
  Second, no monster actually stays dead, unless they're a main badguy. In Fallout and Arcanum once 
 you destroyed and monster and saved, that monster wasn't coming back. The way Diablo II is set 
 up you have to continually play in order to not go back and keep killing the same monsters. If 
 I walk outside of the camp, go to town on the monsters out there and the quit and save (another 
 peave of mine) ; the next time I start the game I have to go through all of those monsters again. 
 Now some may like this because it gives them more time to level up with more monsters to fight. 
 It bothers me, because I can't just clear an area, quit, save, come back the next day and start 
 where I was. I'd have to clear the area all over again. And while I may level up dramatically because 
 of this, the main monsters I have to beat become to easy, and the game becomes just a dull and 
 repetative hack and slash, ooh I got an unidentified knife, hack and slash, ooh I got a red potion, 
 hack and slash, ooh gold coins, and so on and so forth.
  
  Now, this game isn't bad. It is fun, until you realize a few things beyond what I said before. 
 First, you have to save and quit at the same time. You can just find something cool, or do something 
 cool and save it real quick to make sure you don't lose. You have to quit and save at the same 
 time. That's kind of annoying to me. If there is a way to quick save, I never figured it out. But 
 then, I'm stupid sometimes. 
  Another thing is, if you die, you can't just quit without saving and not worry about the death 
 and getting back everything you had. You have to save. Now one thing is that, when you die you 
 reform back in the camp, and all you have to do is go find your body, wherever it died and get 
 all your stuff back. Some people may like this, but I didn't. Also your death costs you whatever 
 amount of gold you have on you, so you have to remember to deposit the gold in you stash before 
 you go out into the battle.
  Also, you aren't able to hold a lot. You have very limited space in which to collect items. So 
 if you find a lot of cool things in battle, you have to pick and chose carefully or use up you 
 warp spells. That annoyed me being that in most RPGs you have a lot of room to carry a lot of things.
 
  
  Now, is this game bad, and does it suck. By no means. It is a lot of fun, and from talking to friends 
 who got me into it, the online play is where it's at. I happen to generally not do online gaming, 
 and I had some issues with it. According to some people though, the expansion pack that came out 
 later does fix one or two of my issues.
  It is a fun game, and if you like these types of games it is fun. I'd just recommend Arcanum or 
 Champions of Norath before this game. If you find it for a bargain, go for. Otherwise, stick to 
 the original if nothing else.
  Also, if what I've said above doesn't sound bad, but a fun challenge, then this is probably a good 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmastaj
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2005 4:02 am PT
Review:  When this game was first released i had just decided to buy the first game. I played the first 
 diablo and thought wow what have i been mmissing out on all this time! After i beat the first one 
 in a matter of days i was craving to buy the second one. So i ended up getting the battlechest 
 complete with the expansion. i thought it was great all the improvements that were made, bigger 
 stash more characters and special abilitys. I played it single player a little bit then decided 
 to try out mulitplayer. It was great online with all the trading and dueling. This game must of 
 entertained me for months. I highly reccomend getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2005 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, I am not a huge fan of RPG's. They seem slow and drab, and you have to dedicate too 
 much time to really get anywhere. Also, several RPG's have a lacklustre fighting system, which 
 can take away the action and thrill of the game.
  
  However, Diablo II has none of these shortcomings. It is action-packed, exciting and easy and fun 
 to play, with huge improvements over the original. 
  
  The story takes place in the world of Sanctuary, where Diablo, the Lord of Terror, once again stalks 
 the land with his minions, seeking to release the other Prime Evils, Baal and Mephisto.
  
  You choose one of five character classes, and then begin the game. You can be a Necromancer, Paladin, 
 Barbarian, Amazon or a Sorceress. Each has roughly forty unique spells. 
  
  This time, you travel all over the world, and meet many more characters, instead of the setting 
 being in just one town, like in the original.
  
  The action is nearly instantaneous, and while the combat system is merely point and click, fighting 
 stills remains very fun. As you progress through the game, you will travel the world of Sanctuary, 
 and eventually journey to Hell.
  
  As you journey through Sancturay you will items, gold and fight a wide variety of monsters.
  
 
  Diablo II is fun and addictive and will last you a long time. However, after you have completed 
 single player, you can go online and either ally with other gamers to defeat Diablo or challenge 
 them to a battle, in order to gain their items. Beware, as many online players are very tough and 
 experienced. Multiplayer is nearly exactly the same as single player, yet this is rip off, as you 
 will find that online play is very different.
  
  Diablo II has only two problems in my opinion. The first, it becomes slightly repetitive towards 
 the end. Also, the graphics are quite dated.
  
  Diablo II is a compelling game and one that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2005 2:47 am PT
Review:  Diablo II was the first game in the genre of hack and slash games that I ever really gave a chance. 
 I found out about the game in late 2000, early 2001... and up until recently I was addicted. The 
 game is one of the most enjoyable gaming experiences of my lifetime. I loved the single player... 
 I loved the multiplayer... I loved it all. Every aspect of the game was perfect in my opinion. 
 
  
  Despite my low marks for graphics and what not that is simply comparing it to the rest of the games 
 in the genre such as Fable, Baldurs Gate: Dark Alliance which are more 3-D and realistic. Despite 
 the visual short commings of this game is a solid, genius and addicting game that will leave you 
 begging for more.
  
  This is one of those games where you will look at the clock... notice it is three in the morning 
 and knowing you have school tomorrow you simply cannot quit. Either Blizzard has found a new form 
 of mind control or the game is really that addicting... or atleast it was to me. I found myself 
 playing about 10-15 hours every single day for a long time. I mainly played it during the summer 
 while school was out because I had the tendency to stay up all night playing it and then not sleep 
 the next day either. 
  
  Diablo II is a basic hack and slash title where you chose from five characters and kill hordes 
 of demons and beasts as you make your way into hell and kill Diablo (the devil) . Although I missed 
 out on the first Diablo title I think this one made up for that... my friends all say the second 
 one is better... and I usually trust my friends... they know me.
  
  In the beginning of this game you choose between a Barbarian, the fighter, an Amazon, the archer, 
 a Necromancer, the dark spell caster, a Paladin, the knight, and the Sorceress, the spell caster 
 with the power of the elements. Each character has an array of skills that you can build up and 
 morph into a special layout customized to fit your battle strategies.
  
  There are hundred of items and item classes... endless possibilites. The game takes place over 
 four distinct acts, each with quests ranging from bounty hunting, retrieving artifacts and collecting 
 and assembling the remains of the ancient mummy, Tal Rasha.
  
  Despite the lackluster graphics, one must realize this title came out several years ago but still 
 to this day has great replay value and fun packed into the game. This is an instant classic and 
 is sure to please any D&D fan. In short... Diablo II is to hack and slash games as Ocarina of Time 
 is to adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bballmitch
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2004 9:24 pm PT
Review:  look, before diablo 2 i had never played a PC video game before. i mean i had played MANY PC games 
 and console games, but never a game where i went to a store and bought a PC game. it is just simply 
 amazing. even in this point in time (2004) i still find it to be a great game. the graphics of this 
 game for its time are pretty amazing but the reason i gave it a 8/10 is because A) there was some 
 lag going on the game and B) because for this day in age it seems like it has some problems; but 
 it doesn't have any proboblems that any other 4 year old game wouldn't have. the gameplay is also 
 pretty amazing. you get your tipical armor and gauntlets and weapons but then you also get potions 
 and magic. and on top of all that you gain skills and each type of character has different skills. 
 to hear more about skills and the gameplay of diablo 2, you can just read GS's review. The sound 
 of diablo 2 is also pretty top notch. there is some very good score that at times really make you 
 feel like you are in hell. also, the voice acting in the game, even though there is very little, 
 is amazing. it feels so cool when you all of a sudden hear the voice of diablo and his brothers 
 and get that shiver down your spine. And lastly, diablo 2 has SOOOOO much replay value. to go through 
 the game once takes about 30 hours. but then you are definitly going to want to play through the 
 campaign at least ONE more time as a different person. personally, for beginers i suggest the barbarian 
 to start out with and then for your second time throughi usually like the negromancer. And after 
 you're done with everything in the single player, there is still a whole world of online play that 
 is just amazing.
  
  if you are the type of person who really likes to develop your characters or you even just like 
 anything about an rpg, diablo 2 is definitly a MUST HAVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2004 2:26 am PT
Review:  If video games were drugs then Diablo II would be crack laced with X. Pushermen Blizzard Entertainment 
 successfully takes what was great about Diablo and expands it in every direction. More classes, 
 more items, more monsters, more map. In a world of 3D Triple A titles, Blizzard stuck to their 
 2D guns and gave gamers a truly rich experience.
  
  * Gameplay: Highly involved storyline with lots of great sub-quests. The maps are huge, the monsters 
 are numerous and the items are diverse. The damage types were easy to understand and figuring out 
 stats such as damage given and taken are easy to calculate and follow. Levels load quick and easy 
 and the games no-nonsense save feature was a boon. Gamblers and Vegas addicts beware; the process 
 of watching booty drop and hoping a rare item will appear are EXTREMELY ADDICTING. Teaming with 
 buddies enhances the game in a large way due to the well-crafted balance of each class. Imaginative 
 locations look as if they spawned from the bowels of hell itself.
  
  * Graphics: Rich colors, moody dungeons with flickering shadows abound. Isometric view compensates 
 for obscured walls by making them translucent. Nice. A parallax effect adds a little to the 3D 
 feeling.
  
  * Sound: Subdued music allows all the sound effects to take center stage. Its a real treat to 
 blaze into a fracas and hear the sounds for everything at once. Voice-acting is cast well, but 
 I would have liked to see a little more variation on common dialogues.
  
  * Value: Huge replay value. Trying to get items alone is enough to keep you going. Like a junkie 
 you glare at the screen while monsters spew their baubles in the hope that a yellow, green or gold 
 item will drop. Youll likely be screaming, Gimmee a fix, man!! after a couple of days playing. 
 Even after you've finished the story, the urge to keep playing is just as strong.
  
  * Tilt: I never played the first Diablo but I played this game for over two years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2004 11:58 am PT
Review:  .. the Diablo 2 craze. The game was released a while ago now, so the graphics look a bit outdated. 
 When first released the graphics were great. 
  
  The story line is great and keeps you playing for hours at a time. Multiplayer is also a lot of 
 fun, being able to run through the story with more than one person.
  
  Some people have critised the game since it's release saying it's just a hack and slash type game 
 rather than an RPG. To me, i love it. I've never been a huge fan of RPG's, but when i played Diablo2 
 i couldn't get enough. Definatly a game to get, weather it be for the story, RPG elements, or whatever.. 
 if you havn't played this game then you definatly missed out on something great, and you should 
 run out and buy the game now. You can get the Diablo pack which contains Diablo, Diablo 2 and the 
 expansion pack. Definatly a worth while pack to own.
  
  I remember back in the days of CS (Counter-Strike) , when Diablo 2 was first released. A clan i 
 used to be close to all left the CS scene for a while to play Diablo 2. They were all hooked on 
 it. They came back to CS for about a week afterwards and then stopped playing entirely. Thats the 
 effect Diablo 2 had on some CS fans.. and we all know what CS is like.
  
  If you havn't got Diablo 2, get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijorat
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2004 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. No other RPG game has captured my attention for so long. Randomly generated 
 levels, equipment, and enemies make it so you never know whats around the next corner. Multiple 
 character classes each with their own set of potential skills which you can mix and match to create 
 your own style of character make this a game that truely is different every time you play it. Add 
 to that the online multiplayer aspect and you have a game that can keep you playing over and over 
 again.
  
  The storyline stays the same, but the stories of the players all change. Different characters handle 
 different situations in different ways. It's a hack and slash fest at core, but the further you 
 go, the more you have to rely on strategy and cunning use of your skills to survive. Online play 
 really adds a whole different aspect to the game. Cooperative gaming and player vs. player can 
 change your whole development strategy. Not to mention the highly detailed official online strategy 
 website.
  
  The game has three different difficulty levels which must be beaten in succession (a level one 
 character would be slaughtered in an instant when faced with even the easiest character on Hell 
 difficulty) .
  
  You have five different characters to choose from Amazon, Barbarian, Necromancer, Palidan, and 
 Sorceress. Each has a different set of skills which you can develop as you like. Amazons focus 
 on ranged attacks for the most part using bows, crossbows, and javalins. Barbarians feature a lot 
 of skills devoted to making his basic attacks better and better. Necromancers can summon undead, 
 curse their opponent, and fire projectiles of poison and bone. Palidans are devoted to holiness 
 and surround themselves with auras which affect their entire party. Sorceresses have many skills 
 devoted to elemental destruction with fire, ice, and lightning. You can focus on some skills or 
 spread your points around. The possibilities are limitless, allowing you to develop a character 
 that suites your particular playing style.
  
  Diablo II uses a paperdoll approach to equiping your character. There are many different types 
 of equipment and each peice is randomly generated with randomly generated characteristics attached 
 to it. Which means you never know what equipment you might find. This further increases your choices 
 in character development. Online players have the ability to trade items with other players thereby 
 making it easier to attain better equipment for their characters.
  
  All of these elements combine to create a highly addictive game with a whole lot of replay value. 
 Not to mention that the gameplay and graphics are top notch... and if you haven't heard about Blizzard 
 Entertainment's award winning in game movies... you're missing out. Just like Blizzard's other games 
 Starcraft and Warcraft this game is graced with a few movies throughout which are done in exquisite 
 detail. Buy this game, Trade for this game, Steal this game... however you do it... get this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 23, 2004 2:31 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2?! I had this game for a while and it never gets boring which is typical of hack n slash 
 RPG. Hack n Slashers are pretty cool with their huge arsenal of weapons and armor. Diablo is one 
 of the coolest RPGs out there but Champions of Norrath blew the competition out of the water thanks 
 to its incredible graphics and gameplay. Still Diablo 2 has a great advantage over other RPG titles.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10 out of 10
  Mouse clicking that makes up most of the control scheme. It's a lot easier than it sounds.
  
 
  Graphics: 10 out of 10 
  Although not fully in 3D it's still a wonderful piece of art in a satanic sort of way.
  
  Sound: 
 10 out of 10
  The barbarian sounds like Donavon from that Dark Stalkers anime and the Druid sounds a little bit 
 like Slayne from Record of the Lodoss War.
  
  Value: 8 out of 10
  It'll keep you playing for hours if you can get passed the lagginess.
  Solid action/RPG from 
 begining to end.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10 out of 10
  It just keeps getting better and better even though the Battle. Net isn't entirly perfect.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Diablo II is one of my favorite games. I will always love how my friends and I would spend weekends 
 going through the whole game together. This game didn't change the gaming industry nor did it set 
 new sights in graphics and engine, but what it did do was further push Blizzard Entertainment as 
 one of the best gaming companies to date!
  This game is just flat out fun and even today you can pop it back in and relive it. I pray so much 
 that a Diablo III will one day rule the world and just hope that it won't get diluted with new 
 graphics.
  This game is set apart by the story line and the amazing videos! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaussGoat
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 14, 2003 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is one of those games that will be argued about for years, and rightfully so. It is both 
 a sequel to a fantastic game, and a product of Blizzard, who has developed a reputation for making 
 polished games. Why the mediocre score then? A combination of things keeps this game from truly 
 living up to it's pedigree.
  
  The first Diablo was an atmospheric gem, and really was a lot of fun to play. I logged many, many 
 hours on it, and played through it several times. The key word to focus on here is "atmosphere." 
 The music was creepy, the game was dark, and you got to hack through a lot of demons. Not bad. 
 Along comes Diablo 2, and with it rides the hopes of thousands (if not hundreds of thousands) of 
 gamers. Unfortunately, D2 fails to deliver the intensity of the first game.
  
  D2 does several things right, including adding additional classes, changing locales several times, 
 allowing you to run (thank God) , and the new skill system. The best of these is the new skill system, 
 which really allows for some decent customization, and is the ONLY reason this game may be considered 
 an RPG. These skills can legitimately make one fighter differ from another to the extent that replay 
 really is created by including them.
  
  Unfortunately, D2 moves away from the "Dungeon Crawl" roots which made it so great in the first 
 place. The outdoor levels are mind-numbingly repetitive, and some of the locales are very drab. 
 Your opponents have also undergone some changes for the worse, and none of them are remotely as 
 scary or interesting as the demonic hordes found in the first game.
  
  Others have lamented the game's RPG claim, so I won't go too deeply into that. Suffice to say, 
 D2 has no dialogue options, a completely linear story, and very little opportunity to "roleplay" 
 aside from the aforementioned skills. I'd treat this as an action game, not an RPG.
  
  Graphics and sound are OK, but nothing fantastic is happening here. The excellent soundtrack makes 
 a return, but the atmospheric underground of the first game has given way to several other generic 
 locales. The notable exception is the Arabian Palace, followed up by the pocekt dimension of a 
 crazed Wizard; easily the best stage in the game. It is also worth noting that the last area seems 
 incredibly tacked on, and I seriously doubt that the developers meant it to be as short as it was.
 
  
  The cut scenes are INCREDIBLE, and are almost worth the price of admission. They are the only real 
 driving force of the story, and the game would be utterly anemic without them. Still, they are 
 not enough to save the game from it's own repetitive nature.
  
  All in all, Diablo 2 is a decent game, but is crippled by repetitive gameplay, and the enormous 
 shadow of it's brilliant predecessor. If you haven't played the original, give it a shot first.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2003 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Just thought I'd post an updated review on this game. I've been playing in on and off (xpack as 
 well) since it first came out back in 2000. I can't really think of any other game that even 3 
 years later is still as much fun too play. I can't either think of any action game that is more 
 fun to party with, when you get 8 people storming through baal/ diablo runs etc. chaotic mad fun 
 is the only word to describe it. The hunt for more treasure is what keeps people addicted to this 
 game and there is probably hundreds of different types of weapons, runes, armour etc. because they 
 all have random modifiers like bonus to strength or bonuses to health. Sound effects are great 
 and the music never gets boring even though i've heard it so many times. Graphics also are still 
 very clean, character models are starting to look a bit blocky but for a 3 year old engine it is 
 still pleasing to look at. The only negative part to this game is to be really good you have to 
 get the best gear. Blizzard has been gradually making this game harder and harder through patches, 
 so subsequently getting by on just average gear just doesn't cut it anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberzero-x
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2003 2:40 pm PT
Review:  diablo 2 is a great game but its not as good as every one says ok i like its but its not totally 
 awesome it can be very addciting though like when i first got it i would go on it like 2 hours 
 a day mfing and trading (mfing is looking for good items) my dad got mad and said i was playing it 
 too much so it ook a 2-week break when i came back to it it just wasnt as fun its one of those 
 thing that you like sometimes then dont so a month later i went to camp for 3 weeks and when i 
 cem back my account was deleted everything was gone my windforces my grandfather swords my tal 
 rasha sorceress set everything : ( i havent played it since but its a good game the only thing that 
 sux is your account gets deleted if you dont play it once every 30 days or something the graphics 
 are ok and the sound effects are pretty good if you even show a passing interest in hack n slash 
 or any baldurs gate game get this this is the first hack n slasher i ever played and i still got 
 hooked the single player mode is boring though if you dont have online capabilities on your comps 
 then just forget this games 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
