-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Diablo II: Lord of Destruction
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/diablo2expansionsetlod/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.6, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 11,968 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment
Developer: Blizzard North
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 27, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lord of Destruction has a lot of depth that's readily apparent, yet it takes a long time to really 
 see how much is packed into this great expansion. 

 Most expansion packs are released when the core game's popularity is beginning to wane, but that's 
 not really the case with Diablo II: Lord of Destruction. In the time since it was released a full 
 year ago, Diablo II has proven to have a very enduring appeal. Players have continued to pit their 
 characters against the collective forces of hell and debate among themselves about which of the 
 five original character classes is the mightiest. If interest in Diablo II has waned at all since 
 last year, then Lord of Destruction will certainly rekindle it. This official expansion introduces 
 two powerful new character classes and scores of other new features and enhancements that all serve 
 not only to bolster the surprising longevity of Diablo II, but also to improve on virtually every 
 aspect of the game.           The assassin and the druid are powerful new character classes.   

  The most obvious addition in Lord of Destruction is the option to choose from two brand-new character 
 classes, bringing the total number of playable classes in Diablo II to seven. The original classes 
 offered rather diverse play experiences, so you might be skeptical as to whether the expansion 
 classes, the assassin and the druid, would be sufficiently different from the others. Fortunately, 
 they definitely are. In fact, not only are these two classes notably different both from one another 
 and from the other characters, but they're also quite powerful and provide a lot of different tactical 
 options.   

  The assassin can become skilled in the use different traps, martial arts, and psionic abilities 
 called shadow disciplines. The martial arts are quite interesting -- using successive melee attacks, 
 the assassin can charge up various moves that can lead to devastating and rather spectacular results. 
 The assassin can also set up automated sentry defenses to attack her foes with elemental damage, 
 and she has the unique ability to wield the new clawlike weapons found in Lord of Destruction. 
 The druid character is no pushover, either. He can cast powerful natural spells that can rain fiery 
 death down on his foes, create fissures in the earth, cause hurricanes, and more. The druid can 
 also summon animal companions such as ravens, wolves, and bears, and he can himself transform into 
 werewolf or werebear forms. Both the assassin and the druid look as good as all the other classes, 
 and though each is well equipped to handle any particular combat situation, each can specialize 
 in a variety of ways -- so, two different druids or assassins of similar level may still have totally 
 different proficiencies, depending on the players' preferences.   

  If you choose to play as one of these new classes, you must begin the game from scratch, in the 
 very first act. Only after you play through the original four acts in the game will you be able 
 to proceed to the new fifth act, in which your ultimate goal is to defeat Diablo's brother Baal, 
 the Lord of Destruction. The fifth act featured in the Diablo II expansion is certainly the best 
 of them all. Most of it is set around a barbarian village under siege by enemy forces stationed 
 on a nearby mountain. As you fight your way up the mountain, you'll have to contend with powerful 
 foes of all sizes, as well as their demonic artillery weapons. You'll then venture into ice-covered 
 underground caverns and deep into the heart of the mountain, where you'll eventually face your 
 final foe in a very challenging confrontation. This new act isn't just the toughest and most colorful 
 of them all, but its six different quests are rather involved, and it's the also longest act overall -- though 
 it's still relatively short and probably won't take more than 10 hours to finish the first time. 
 In turn, though the fifth act is noticeably different from the others, it still follows the same 
 basic blueprint. That is, you'll constantly be fighting droves of enemy forces through expansive 
 and sometimes mazelike randomly generated environments.           The fifth act offers numerous 
 new challenges and rewards.    

  The Diablo II expansion includes a lot of other changes and additions to the original game, along 
 with a printed manual that clearly and specifically describes them. One of the most interesting 
 new enhancements in Lord of Destruction is in the way it treats hirelings, the computer-controlled 
 characters you can hire in the towns at the beginning of most of the acts. In Diablo II, hirelings 
 didn't offer any significant benefit, as you had no actual control over them and they weren't nearly 
 strong enough to survive for long. Though you still have no tactical control over them in the expansion, 
 now you can actually outfit your hirelings with armor and weapons and watch as they gain experience 
 levels while fighting alongside you. For a fee, you can resurrect your hireling if he or she is 
 killed, and you can even travel with your hireling from act to act. So, you can actually keep the 
 same hireling with you throughout the entire course of your time spent playing as your particular 
 character. Hirelings are still a liability in some instances, and they generally aren't useful 
 against the boss monsters at the end of each act, but they're now a much more valuable part of 
 the game.   

  Some of the other changes in Lord of Destruction affect the game's interface and how it plays. 
 All these changes are for the better. You can now access an onscreen minimap instead of Diablo 
 II's full-screen map overlay, and it doesn't clutter your view as much and is generally easier 
 to look at. There are now convenient hotkeys for buying multiple types of common items, such as 
 health potions, and for quickly dropping health potions into your belt for easy access in battle. 
 The game also gives you access to eight additional skill hotkeys, so you can have as many as 16 
 different character skills mapped to your keyboard. Another very significant interface change lies 
 in the fact that each character can now readily switch between two completely different sets of 
 equipment in his or her hands. For instance, a barbarian might use two swords in most situations, 
 but he can now switch to a more-powerful two-handed polearm with the touch of a keyboard hotkey. 
 This new ability creates a major tactical advantage in many situations, just as it gives the game 
 more depth of play.    

 Diablo II: Lord of Destruction also adds hundreds of new types of items and magical properties to 
 the game, as well as thousands of possible new combinations of these. Some of the most interesting 
 additions are the new class-specific items, which can only be used by one of the seven classes. 
 These include various special spears for the amazon, animal helmets for the druid, and the claw 
 weapons for the assassin. These items are designed to augment the strengths of their respective 
 classes and encourage more interaction and transaction between Diablo II players on Blizzard's 
 Battle. net player-matching service. Lord of Destruction also adds new high-level elite items that 
 are by far the most powerful in the game, and it doubles the size of your character's stash, letting 
 you safely store plenty more stuff in town.           Lord of Destruction makes multiplayer Diablo 
 II more intense than ever before.    

  As with the hirelings, the Diablo II expansion also fulfills the potential of one of the other 
 promising aspects of the original game: In Diablo II, you'd often find equipment with empty sockets, 
 which you could fill with magic gemstones to enhance that equipment. Lord of Destruction takes 
 this to the next level, in large part by making gemstones more common, but also by introducing 
 new types of items you can use with socket equipment -- jewels can have random magical properties, 
 while runes have specialized properties of their own that can be greater still if particular runes 
 are laid into an item in the correct order. This way, you can create your own runic, bejeweled, 
 gem-encrusted equipment, and one quest reward in the fifth act even lets you personalize an item 
 with your name, which you can then trade with your friends.   

  Actually, Diablo II: Lord of Destruction does much to further encourage social interaction in the 
 game. As with Diablo II, in the expansion, the single-player mode is essentially just an offline 
 version of the online game, so your time will be better spent developing an online character that 
 you can use in cooperative or competitive matches with other players. Besides the addition of class-specific 
 items that encourage more trade among players, the two higher difficulty levels in Diablo II (which 
 become available once you finish the game on the previous settings) practically demand that groups 
 of players cooperate in order to succeed. At high levels, some of the monsters are completely immune 
 to certain types of attacks -- sometimes even to physical damage. To contend with this, you'll usually 
 need a balanced party of specialized characters. It's still possible to play through the game individually, 
 as all character classes do have different tactical options, especially now that they can easily 
 switch weapons in battle. Yet this and some other enhanced abilities are only possible in the Diablo 
 II expansion, and not in the original game, even though the enhanced difficulty level of Diablo 
 II was made universal as of the recent patches.   

  These changes sparked some controversy in the Diablo II player community, as some players felt 
 that Blizzard was effectively forcing them to upgrade to the expansion in order to find the items 
 and gain the abilities necessary to deal with the new challenges. Regardless of whether this is 
 true, the fact is that the Diablo II expansion is merely doing its job by adding desirable new 
 features to the core game. That so many players have deemed these changes to be so essential speaks 
 highly of the thought and quality put into the design of Lord of Destruction. Players have also 
 criticized the expansion's attempts to further encourage cooperative play. Cooperative Diablo II 
 is actually great fun, as many of the classes have skills that augment those of the others. However, 
 Blizzard's Battle. net service, whose front-end interface hasn't really changed since the original 
 Diablo, could really benefit from some sort of automated matching option, which could help players 
 get into a game with those of similar experience level. As it is, you still have to manually filter 
 through lists of open games -- and rest assured, though you can only play Lord of Destruction with 
 others who have the expansion installed, there will always be plenty of online games to choose 
 from in the foreseeable future.           A war party, including an assassin and a druid, prepares 
 for battle.    

  The Diablo II expansion makes several key aesthetic enhancements to the game. Most notably, it 
 now lets you play in 800x600 resolution, up from 640x480. Though the higher resolution setting 
 adversely affects performance on systems that approach the minimum requirements for Diablo II, 
 for all the rest, this yields a threefold benefit: It cleans up the graphics by making all the 
 characters slightly smaller and thus less pixilated, it cleans up and reduces the size of the onscreen 
 interface bar, and it literally provides a tactical advantage by letting you see more of your surroundings 
 at any given time. Once you try the game in the higher resolution, you'll have a difficult time 
 going back to the standard setting. Besides this, Diablo II: Lord of Destruction includes an excellent 
 new symphonic score for the fifth act and impressive high-quality cinematic sequences for the introduction 
 and ending of the new act.   

  Though it's a fully featured expansion, Diablo II: Lord of Destruction does pack a hefty retail 
 price of more than $30. So, the question with Lord of Destruction, as with any expansion pack, 
 is whether or not the price suitably justifies the enhancements included. All things being equal, 
 in this case the answer is yes -- the Diablo II expansion offers plenty of new features, enough to 
 make you spend at least as much time with the expansion as you have with the original game. The 
 two new classes and the new act make up the brunt of the new content, but the other enhancements 
 add a lot of longevity to the original material as well. Like any good expansion pack, Lord of 
 Destruction doesn't make any major attempts to alter the gameplay that made the preceding game 
 successful, but rather builds on the strengths of its predecessor. It expands the tactical options 
 found throughout the game, and even enhances the graphics. Diablo II: Lord of Destruction has a 
 lot of depth that's readily apparent, yet it takes a long time to really see how much is packed 
 into this great expansion to one of last year's most addicting games.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (313 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fuzzball95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  the reason why everyone should play this game is one is fun. another is just about everyone can 
 play it both casual and hardcore. this game will take hours out of your life and battle net is 
 probably the best only experience ever. diablo also has great looking items even the graphics are 
 okay specially on the 800*600 resolution. but eve a game like this has issues more like issue the 
 mercenaries you hire suck and will die repeatedly and get stuck not even a donkey on crack would 
 do. the added fifth act really shows how good blizzard is at making game and ball is no walk in 
 the park either and this game is just pure unadulterated fun with every kill and every skill makes 
 you fell stronger not even diablo can match up to this game and believe me that's saying a lot. 
 the set items only find in hell difficulty are just awesome. i love the cow level. overall everyone 
 every where should buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobluvTiff
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  One of the elements that makes this a great rpg is its brutality its a great way to test your characters 
 power and also your own skills with the character. Diablo 2 Lod isnt so hard to master but unique 
 (if your a good rpg player) . diablo also has a good story line. There is no dought in my mind that 
 the Diablo seriers was a big part in what Blizzard is today and creathed a game with a lot of potential 
 for the futrue as we are seeing diablo3 which i cant wait to get my hands on :D.
  
  Diablo 2 and Diablo 2 Lod were not just anyother rpg at those days it was quite uniqe and felxible 
 meaning there wasnt quite yet a rpg that you can show your own skills as a gamer in it that you 
 can make a combination of skills in your skill tree. It was truely a master pieace at its time
 
  
  This game was surely a classic i will never forget it was one of the games i grow up playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JGMagellan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This game came out ages ago and is still alive on the servers. People who started playing in high 
 school now have their 10 year younger little brother playing the game. There must be something 
 that everyone loves to keep coming back...
  
  Oh yeah, must be the instant gore, and tons of it! There are only 5 "levels" played over 3 difficulty 
 settings, but the game still seems fun. Most people just end up grinding in the same areas, but 
 it takes about a day or two to hit Lv 70, so grinding isn't too bad. But killing Baal's minions 
 gets old, so helping a bunch of noobs slaughter baddies is a nice break.
  
  The character classes all bring something to the table. There are still the uber characters like 
 the hammerdin and javazon that take out entire groups fast, but everything you do in this game 
 leaves you with some weakness that can still kill you in one hit (I hate Iron Maiden!) .
  
  You spend most of your time either leveling or searching for those hard to find uniques and even 
 harder to find runes (the new currency, pfft to SoJs) . Once you have collected everything, you 
 start another character and do it all over again or impress a bunch of noobs by killing faster 
 than they can run behind you.
  
  The character customization (appearance) is decent for how old the game is. You can always tell 
 when someone is wearing Sigons for example (hehe) . The attacks are different for everyone. Each 
 class has three branches of attacks/support that they can do. Depending on how you go, you can 
 make a few different characters in the same class alone. 
  
  The only real problem is bots, annoying little level 1 spammers of advertising with names like 
 "asdfkjklqwe." This is easy to get around and it's surprising that most people haven't caught on 
 to it. Just set a level restriction on the game that is 2 levels less than you currently are. That 
 is, if you are lv 42, set a 40 level restriction. Problem solved. This doesn't work well on lower 
 levels (less than 30) but like I said, you can hit lv 70 really fast.
  
  Basically, good all around fun. Free to get online, but the game is still pricey ($40 at Best Buy) . 
 Have fun grinding, there are plenty of people who have rejoined to get in the Diablo III spirit, 
 including me. o/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade-razzor
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 1:53 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is possibly the best RPG in the gaming world to date. I have spent at least 200+ hours 
 playing this game (over the space of 8 years) and still love it to death. I can just simply find 
 ANYTHING to fault it with.
  
  The combat is simple, click, and your little hero will go and smash the adorable little demon's 
 brains in. Although it is somewhat shallow, the amount of abilities that are out there make it 
 soo much fun. There are around about 240 skills - 8 classes, each with 3 skill trees and about 
 10 skills in each - and 5 acts that can be played through in each difficulty, mode. The amount 
 of content is great! The graphics are nothing flash, but hold thier own as the game is 8 years 
 old! 
  
  For only $30 this game is a must-buy. If you havent played this game yet, go out and buy it. NOW! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenhoe
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:27 am PT
Review:  One thing I always loved about the Diablo series was the gothic atmosphere. The first time I ever 
 glimpsed a thing about Diablo was an advert in a PC mag (for Diablo I) , and it showed the cathedral 
 and the glooming red light shining out of it and I was instantly taken and not disappointed when 
 the game came out.
  
  The second part in the series fleshes out the formula with more a varied world, with the quest 
 leading you through distinctive areas (desert, snow, jungle etc.) Although the grim atmosphere 
 was toned down a bit, the game had all the right things in place. 
  
  I never really understood why Diablo did never spawn other games which were of a similar nature. 
 I know there is Titan Quest and such, but the key concept of Diablo is its randomness when it comes 
 to loot, level generation, boss monster generation. No two games would be a alike. Given the various 
 character classes and the possible character configurations the game would play and feel very different 
 each time you play.
  
  To this day, having played it for years and years I have not discovered everything and when I read 
 through bulletin boards, I learn that there are loads of things I still have not done and/or found.
 
  
  A perfect game in my opinion, especially when you play it with friends.
  
  Highly recommended ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exorphitus
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2009 2:22 am PT
Review:  Diablo II - A highly addictive game with an emmersive story. I could literally spend days hacking 
 through hordes of demons, and trudging through the many different dungeons and labyrinths. And 
 then I tried the online play...
  
  I thought playing Online would be even more fun, but I was in for a shock. Nobody online played 
 the game as intended. They exploited every bug and loophole to max out as fast as possible. The 
 in-game economy was almost completly non-existant, and the online playerbase were ruthless. They 
 merely had higher level characters rush them through the games story by exploiting loopholes in 
 the games coding, then after powerleveling their way to max, bought all the best equipment from 
 online sites and then went around killing and otherwise screwing over anyone weaker than themselves. 
 Only certain classes and builds seemed effective in higher levels of play, and duping and hacking 
 of items ruined any semblance of balance there would have been. ... Then came the expansion.
  
  Diablo II - Lord of Destruction introduced fixes for many of the bugs and exploits, added new 
 classes, items, and even a whole new final act with another stronger final boss. It seemed the 
 gaming environment was saved... until the players learned new ways to accomplish old tricks. Duping 
 and Hacking still ran rampant. Rushing through the game and power-leveling was just as easy as 
 before. The trading environment got even more hostile, as the harder levels added required even 
 more powerful items, which could be bought from Ebay or various online sites who exist soley to 
 sell Diablo 2 items. Many of these turn out to be dupes and would eventually vanish, leaving you 
 wit hnothing for your money. 
  
  Meanwhile, the in-game economy hadn't improved. Gold was worthless save to buy potions. In order 
 to try to keep some kind of balance, Blizzard raised the difficulty and re-tuned the skills. They 
 even put a cap on how much experience you could gain in ceertain areas to try and curb power-levelling. 
 All this did was make only a handful of character builds viable, and only with the perfect set 
 of equipment. this means high level items being abandoned and worthless. Players being ruthless 
 in trades, only accepting the perfect item for what thewy had, even turning down entire pages of 
 unique gear in return for a single piece of equipment.
  
  Finally, the largest problem, is the lack of a sufficently entertaining end-game once you do manage 
 to become powerful enough to survive. There are no official guilds or guildhalls. Guilds consist 
 of groups of players who stand around expecting free handouts and PKing each-other on the act 1 
 map. If you're not into PKing clones of the same character over and over because everyone uses 
 the same build, and you've already maxed out your character, your only options are to start a new 
 character, or do magic-finding runs, which consist of loading up on gear that adds to your "Magic-Find", 
 a stat that increases the rarity and drop chance of your loot and storming through high-level areas 
 hoping for something good to drop for one of your other characters or one of the few items you 
 can trade for something you need.
  
  Now I know what you're all thinking. If this game is so bad, why did you rate it so high? Wel, 
 that's because when played as it was meant to be, this game is incredibly addictive. I've created, 
 re-created, and built many characters. I have no idea why it's so addictive to keep playing through 
 the same thing over and over, but it is, and many people seem to agree with me. There's just something 
 to be said for hacking through screens full of demons and monsters, and the random level generator 
 makes sure the labyrinths are never the same twice.
  
  I definately reccomend this game as a single player experience. I even reccomend playing through 
 with your buddies, but the competative online play is so horribleymessed up that it only ruins 
 an otherwise incredible gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jehrman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:18 am PT
Review:  If you have never played this game before, slap yourself in the face (no don't that'll hurt, hehe) 
 and then go out and buy this game! It's still an amazing game up to this day. At least until 3 
 comes out.
  
  I believe it is important I grade this fairly, so I will grade it on a scale relative to when it 
 came out and not today. 
  
  [Breakdown]
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  For its time of release, the graphics are actually pretty dang nice! It may seem basic nowadays, 
 but it's a masterpiece of its time. Playing it now (if you're old enough) will bring back memories 
 (good and bad) of those days.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  I (and my friends) still, to this day have a ball running around slaughtering beasts while spamming 
 out numpad so I can listen to my epic characters yell, "Die! You will die! Follow me!" Hehehe.
 
  
  Story: 9.5/10
  A great take on what, at first glance, seems like a very stale and boring storyline. You get taken 
 through dungeons, swamps, deserts, and more all while encountering beasts who what to destroy your 
 face! Why you do this you ask? Well to remove the greater evils from this realm of course. Along 
 the way you meet some very interesting characters who help you out.
  
  Concept: 10/10
  They decided to add a secret cow level! That's great conception right there if you ask me. After 
 all of the hype over the first game about the secret cow level, finally obsessed gamers get to 
 enjoy the satisfaction of actually reaching it.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  The whole control-scheme in ingrained in my head. My right hand controlling my character, casting 
 at enemies, and looting. My left hand strategically placed for immediate potion-consumption and 
 loot locating. Take out your newly created character into the world and you should get familiar 
 with the gameplay quickly. It is easy to get a hang of the gameplay, but at the same time it's 
 still very entertaining.
  
  Replay: 10/10
  To this day I still get sucked back into this game. I gather up my friends, also addicted, and 
 go plunder the souls of many creatures from hell.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10
  This game is great. It has kept me coming back for more and more for almost 10 years now, and it 
 should carry me all the way until the release of the 3rd installment. It's great to gather some 
 friends and play a classic like Diablo 2 again and again. Even if you do take it too seriously 
 by get fully geared out with mics and Ventrilo to call out commands and cries for assistance (and 
 the occasional background music) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obliabo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II: LOD, was the first of many hundreds of games I have ever played. It will always be the 
 best. The game in itself is so good, with different character classes, (Amazon, Assassin, Necromancer, 
 Barbarian, Paladin, Sorceress and Druid) , all with different skills and armour that suits them 
 best, making the gameplay so different for each class. You have 5 stages of the game, each of them 
 with usually 6 quests, aside from number 4 which only has 3. At the end of the stage you will fight 
 a boss. In order, the bosses you fight are, (Andariel, Duriel, Mephisto, Diablo and Baal) . When 
 you have completed the game in normal difficulty you will be known as Slayer "your name". For example 
 if I was called Impkiller, I would be known as Slayer Impkiller. After that you have the chance 
 to play in Nightmare difficulty, and then Hell. You will also get different titles before your 
 name when completing Nightmare and Hell. You can also play as a "Hardcore" character, where if 
 you die, that is it, game over. This is not the case with the normal expansion character. Also 
 being able to play online over Battle. net, this is one of the best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 left a big question - What happens to Baal? He is shown in the final cinematics to be 
 strollig off. What next? Diablo 2 - LOD answers all those questions.
  
  The game adds two new characters - Assassin and Druid. Assassin specializes in deadly moves and 
 deadly traps. Druid specializes in transfroming into animals like bear, wolf, etc. It also adds 
 new items calls runes that are like gems, but when they are inserted in a correct order (like they 
 spell out something) they can give amazing powers to weapons. Also you can carry two sets of weapons 
 in your hands and can switch over to the other whenever you want. The stash size is immensely increased. 
 Also you can heal your sidekicks and give them weapons and armour of your choice.
  
  The game also adds a new act. To gain access to this act, you must however finish all the previous 
 acts or must possess a character who did that. The act starts with Baal, sitting on a throne and 
 talking with a person and finally killing him. Baal has actually attacked Harrogath, the Barbarian 
 homelands. He wants to gain access to the worldstone, by which he can bring back his brothers. 
 The operation of the worldstone was known to only the 3 prime evils - Mephisto, Baal and Diablo 
 and to Nihlathak, an NPC that you will encounter in the last act. Not even Tyreal knew it's functioning. 
 You must battle hordes of enemies, who have called a siege on the walls of Harrogath. In the midst 
 you will find Nihlathak has turned evil and you must kill him. Finally you go to the gatekeepers 
 of the Worlstone. Since Baal knew everything about the worldstone he was allowed to pass, but since 
 you don't know, you will have to battle them and gain access to the worldstone chamber. There you 
 will find Baal, who will keep calling his minions to attack you, but there will be no confrontation 
 between you and Baal until you enter the worldstone chamber. After killing Baal, a cinematic shows 
 that Tyreal, not fully understanding the working of the worldstone, destroys it. However it seems (from 
 sources and Diablo 3) that the worldstone protected interdimensional beings like the prime evils 
 from coming to this world. In Diablo 3 it seems that due to the destruction of the worldstone, 
 Diablo has been set free to roa upon this Earth. Also because in all previous cases, Diablo had 
 been imprisoned within a mortal body his body was quite different from it's actual form which is 
 shown in Diablo 3.
  
  New monsters and characters make Diablo 2 - LOD a must for Diablo fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokedbeef
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  The Good things about this game:
  
  Gameplay: Great number of customizations, great number of characters to choose, well balanced classes, 
 long, fun, and rewarding quests, design of the palce changes everytime you start a new game, monsters 
 come back everytime you load your game.
  
  Sounds: Great sound effects and had greatly improved from the pervious diablo
  
  Graphics: 
 Pretty good 3D/2D graphics and good animations
  
  Systems: Almost no crashes, low system requirement, and only few minor problems.
  
  The Bad 
 things about the game:
  
  Gameplay: You can't save in middle of a quest so you will have to start the quest all over again 
 unless you have a gate to help you a little but even though it could get a little annoying.
  
  Sounds: Nothing to say
  
  Graphics: Its a bit hard to spot small items if they are not 
 flashing
  
  Systems: SOme minor and few major lag problems in battle. net (Usually its the players' fault for 
 having a crappy computer but sometimes its something else)
  
  Overall: An awesome game and can't say anymore about it except a if problems but doesn't effect 
 much on how great the game it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheokdoc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  i've played this game countless times and almost 10 years after im still playing it. the replayability 
 and quest for the ultimate loot is just unbelievable.
  
  well balanced characters and quests. great gothic environment and backgorund story.
  
  awesome 
 multiplayer... never been one to play with other people but this was so easy to get a band of mates 
 together and kill stuff
  
  the skills were fun and simple, though i knew people who didnt use any skill or stat points to 
 win the game but really complemented the items perfectly.
  
  easily one of the best games of all time in terms of pure fun. theres not many games you can just 
 play for 30 mins when your free clicking your mouse and getting tonnes of rewards.
  
  i just hope they make sure diablo 3 is done well... keeping in line with the realtistic and dark 
 gothic characters and not polygons of cartoon characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidfan220
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II will overtake every aspect of your life if you let it, or it can just be a casual hour 
 a day relationship. Unlike some other Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games, like World 
 of Warcraft, you are free to play as little or as much as you want, and not have to worry about 
 falling behind the rest of the world. Diablo II provides endless replay value, and the expansion 
 set makes the game even more worth playing, finishing out the original storyline and preparing 
 those of us who are waiting with baited breath for Diablo III. The 3 difficulty levels will provide 
 a level of replay value that is almost unheard of in a non-online only game for its time. You will 
 be entertained for months and able to return to this game for many years to come; I know it has 
 for me! The original game is worth the buy, and the expansion set is more than definitely a perfect 
 addition to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brenden403
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 may just look like a complex mess with crappy graphics at first but once you get playing 
 it you can't stop! 
  
  You can choose between being a: Paladin, Sorcerres, Assasin, Druid, Amazon, Necromancer and a Barbarian. 
 You can also make multiple characters on one profile.
  
  The boss fights are awesome (I nearly crapped my pants when the place started rumbiling then Diablo 
 came out) and there are almost unlimated possibilities for items and weapons. If you scroll over 
 an item there will be text saying what it is. The words are in different colours depending on the 
 item.
  The gameplay is so addicting that I played it so much that eventually I got to the point were I 
 hated the game but I still could't stop playing it. Don't worry though, Diablo 3 will be out long 
 after you reach that point.
  
  If you like RPG's or playng online with friends you should get this game.
  
  Pros
  - Addicting
 
  - Fun online
  - Almost endless possabilities for items
  - Killing stuff is fun
  
  Cons
  - Nobody plays anymore
  - Graphics kinda suck
  - Might be too addicting
  
  I give 
 diablo 2
  
  Gameplay 18/20
  Story: 13/15
  Graphics 7/10
  Controles 9/10
  Moneys worth 5/5
  
  Overall: 90% (I bumped it up because I think overall it's better than 8.5)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugupo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  I play this game since it came out, mostly online, last few year no much chance in patch, but still 
 is very good game, has all the area that make a epic, i admit those 2 expasion character are pretty 
 weak, but main thing about expasion is had much higher elite item and rune, which casual d2 player 
 will tell you, item mean everything, without you guy is nothing. Anyway, here so i grade, the visual 
 was very good back then, it does lack support high resolution, the music is pretty good especially 
 in the new design act 5, amazing score. If you wonder should you upgrade expasion, answre is big 
 yes, nearly 90% of all bnet d2 user own expasion, is so darn cheap this day, and is worth it.
 
  
  Unlike other blizzard game, this one is Action RPG, which make appearing to many western people. 
 The thing that amazing me is character has so many skill, hightly customrize. Something is rare 
 to find in other game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Mafia420
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This Game is GREAT!! I have played this game so much and I never get tired of it. I have Characters 
 that are Lvl 90+ and I have a lot of them. The Cool part about Destruction is the Runes, The runes 
 make it so you can have some pretty helpful and Amazing Weapons/Armor. You can Craft things like 
 Enigma: which is a Chest Armor Piece and it includes, Jah, Ith, Ber and it has to be in that order 
 in a 3 socketed Chest Armor. You can also make Lots of things like Breath Of The Dying (BOTD) which 
 is a great weapon for both the Palidan and the Barbarian. 
  The game also features Two new characters to the game and They are the Assassin and The Druid. 
 They are a great Attribute the game because they both have Unique styles and they have some Killer 
 Moves. The druid is a Summoning and Spell caster Kind of like the Sorce, but different style of 
 moves. The druid also has a way to be transformed into a "TANK" which is in the Destruction Strategy 
 Guide On the Page right after it gives all the Information about THE DRUID.
  The Assassin Is a Combat type of character, she can teleport and do some Kicks and she can do even 
 crazier stuff with Kicking (Yeah shes mainly about the Kicking) she can also use skills such as 
 Getting more Resistance towards everything, Cast a Shadow and more.
  
  This is a GREAT addon to The Diablo II series and I appreciate it very much!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon_Guardian
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Since the year 2000, Blizzard's Diablo 2: Lord of Destruction is an action-packed RPG that takes 
 you through an exciting adventure through several environments and quests to give you your fill 
 of nostalgia. You can pick from several classes including the Barbarian, the Amazon, the Druid, 
 the Assassin, the Sorceress, the Paladin, or the Necromancer. Each class has well-balanced strengths 
 and weaknesses. The class you choose will determine the skills you can achieve through level-ups. 
 This class option; unlike it's predecessor: Diablo, helps cater to a wide variety of players. Enemies 
 come in many forms from Devilkins, to Zombies, to Demons. You can pick from almost any Dark age 
 or Middle age weapon you can think of. From clubs and axes, to Spears, swords, and crossbows. If 
 melee or ranged weapons aren't your style, then magic weapons are available at almost any point 
 in the game. You also get a well-developed Armor hierarchy from leather, to chain-mail, to plate 
 armor with much more in between. 
  Diablo 2 isn't perfect though. In fact, it has some noticeable flaws. Despite the various skills 
 and abilities, the combat system is very basic and it gets boring after a while. Other characters 
 in the game are very flat and one-faced and seem to have only one purpose. The half-minded character 
 development leaves you feeling alone in the game. It is as if a character is only able to walk 
 in a ten-foot radius. Apart from that, the character dialogue and voice acting is great. If you 
 die in the world of Diablo, all you loose is gold which can easily be replenished. Once you "die" 
 you end up in town and you loose all of your equipped items. You must go back to the spot where 
 you "died" pick up your own body and all of your equipped items are returned to you. 
  In Multiplayer, you go on something known as Battlenet, which is just a watered-down version of 
 X-box live. You and a party of other live players go through the game as a co-op squad and level-up 
 your characters. 
  Diablo is for anyone who has time to kill or just loves RPGs. Despite some noticeable flaws, it 
 stands the test of time as an engaging RPG to be played more than once.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FenrirDarkNight
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  A highly addictive game, even for a game with simple graphics, Diablo 2 had his good things, is 
 one of the best RPG games I ever played. Yeah, sometimes is kind of boring, or the animation is 
 simple and sometimes repetitive but it had a very variety of enemies, weapons, armor, items, gems 
 and spells. Unlike other games, Diablo 2 had an interesting selection of characters, and regardless 
 of the character you choose you can always find something different, and it's not really a game 
 too hard to finish, and all the characters are balanced between each other, in other words, you 
 can kill Diablo with any character but you need to know how to use that character, of course it 
 will take more time with some characters that others but still have a chance to defeat him. I really 
 recommend this game, for all the RPG gamers, and those who wants to play very addictive games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoopyPoopy4
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Review of Diablo 2: LOD
  
  Pros: Thousands of new items and weapons, an complete new act that continues the hunt for Baal, 
 2 new character classes, both which are very fun to play as, the new act is the length of an entire 
 game, making this feel like an entirely new game rather than just an expansion, some creepy and 
 cool looking monsters to fight all of them completely new, game still gives you that tense feeling 
 when you explore dungeons or caves, a very challenging final boss fight.
  
  Cons: They could have just included all these great things in the original. 
  
  
  Basically, 
 if you enjoyed Diablo 2, you will love this game!!!! I guarantee it!!! Its worth the money!!! The 
 new items are very cool and the new characters are awesome. The druid and the asssasin have really 
 cool moves and spells. The game maintains that tense and engaging feeling in it that made the regualar 
 Diablo 2 so great. So if you want to continue the hunt for Baal throught the vast mountains of 
 the barbarian highlands, or just wanna experience a huge, new seamless world with new monsters, 
 items, weapons, and much much more, BUY THIS GAME!!!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThomasDOP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Even after countless hours of repetitive Baal runs, dozens of "timed out" 90+ characters, scamed 
 items, playing with dupers/MHers/Online Gear Patrons/Bots, and having so many people quit and move 
 on to WOW,
  I can always come back to Diablo Lord of Destruction
  This has been the game I could never quit. I have leveled and geared every build you can think 
 of, even the useless BowBarbs, suprisingly fun Meelee Sorcs, and unfair Auradins (even if they 
 kinda suck at PVP) . Yet I can still set aside diablo, finish another game or two, and come back 
 to play it again. I can't explain why, but I'm not the only one. Even as I write this there is 
 69,234 people casually uber leveling, killing baals minions, and trading for godly gear.
  Thank you Diablo for always being there when finishing other games leaves me bored and unfulfilled. 
 Rest assured if Diablo III sucks I'll still have you to fall back on.
  ThomasDOP
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizzle_Dwarf
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  There is absolutely no reason why this game and regular Diablo 2 should not get a perfect score. 
 The term "Diablo Clone" comes from this game, it started it all. The gaming universe would not 
 be as successful if it were not for Diablo. Half of the more popular games out there ARE Diablo 
 Clones. Even World of Warcraft came from this game. If you are a gamer you must appreciate this 
 game, anyone can play it and have fun. Some will play it and say it was fun but stop after just 
 a little while. MOST will play this game for possibly thousands of hours and never not want to 
 play it. Most of the time nowadays, people will get a new action adventure or MMO game and play 
 it for a little while, only to realize they want to go back to Diablo again. This game isn't even 
 underrated and it still can be considered underrated just because people don't know the impact 
 this game has put upon the gaming world. Simply put, this game is the best game ever made. And 
 until Diablo 3 comes out, it will remain the best and most important game in history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsedai
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  When you buy a new computer you have that one game that rewards your effort. This is that one game. 
 The first Diablo was a romping good time but this sequal was fun wrapped up in an ice cream sandwich 
 smothered in fudge.
  
  I found myself playing this game long after I officially "beat" the game. The playability and the 
 replayability were just tremendous. Playing it for just a couple of hours or just with one character 
 was never enough. The game offered not hours but days of immersive and fascinating gameplay with 
 story driven elements that kept me mesmerized. 
  
  The Co Op facet of this game on a local network made the game so much more fun too. Take a friend 
 or two or three and run through those dungeons together. The aura's and the abilities of the characters 
 really shine in Co Op play. I confess that my friend's PC barely kept up near the end. 
  
  The items, armors swords etc were so very thorough in this game. Tremendous sets can be attained 
 and found in the game lending to some muling on my part to collect even more set items. 
  
  The music was powerful and lent the story so much more power. I cannot truly state how good this 
 game was, so I encourage you to purchase it now. 
  Don't wait until you find it on sale, go ahead and buy it now and play it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoCC123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  When i first heard there was a game called diablo i thought it would be some bloddy straight-up 
 murder everyone kind of game. My cousins had started playing it and couldnt stop. Soon my brither 
 heard how great it was and join the league of diabloites. Having heard many great things about 
 this game i decided to give it a try. My brother got me started giving my mediocre items and a 
 goal path. And soon i was addicted. This game never ends. There are 8 classes 5 acts and 3 different 
 diffuculties. There are over thousands and thousands of items. It never gets old. I am more than 
 excited fro diablo3. i can think of a few changes for the new game that i thought of while playing 
 the this game. If u want to play a great game play this one. But warning: u may become adicted 
 lol. Not WoW addicted but close to it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamebop10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  we like i said OMG!!!!! the game is so worth it to buy for around $70 but try EB games when they 
 hav a half price sale!!!! any way maps are well designed bcause if u hav two people and youve had 
 one till its lvl 16 ur (gonna know the maps really well) but when you create another guy/girl the 
 maps are different from the other one!!! ok heres my break down on the game:
  
  grapics 7/10 not too bad but it needs a little more work to be perfect.
  
  sound 8/10 the sound 
 kinda helps a little when a brute is coming you can hear its breathing.
  
  gameplay 9/10 its really good bcause of the maps so you wont know excatlky where to go in your 
 quests.
  
  i give it *drumroll* *symbol* 8.5 !!!!!!!! not bad for a second version of the game diablo!!!!! 
 me luv this game never stop playing it  you 
 just gotta get this game  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiNoNaX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  When you spend about one hour thinking of something bad to say about this game and can't even find 
 one bad or weak point to say. You know this game is perfect. This is one of those games that made 
 the 90's gaming scene so great. If you werent born by then to bad.
  
  This game is just marvelous, 9 years later prior to its release and I can't even find one game 
 in the last decade that compares to it, its just that good.
  I mean Titan Quest with its xpac? Mythos? The list goes on. One whole decade and not one decent 
 title to compare this game to, its just that good.
  
  I wont even bother comparing Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion or Fallout to this game because I dont 
 consider them action RPG's even though they are good games in their own right.
  
  Who doesn't like a storyline about Heaven and Hell that is well told and provides intense and brilliant 
 cutscenes. How many games have you played that actually make your heart pump with 100% pure adrenaline 
 equivelant to an orgasm? The sheer joy of getting a Trang Oul set piece.
  
  The inovative addition of creating a Horadric Cube to fiddle around with creating things alone 
 is just entertainment. I could talk about this game for days on end without getting bored, it holds 
 that much sentimental value in my heart, while I still wait for a RPG to get even close to the 
 quality of this game, which will prolly be Diablo 3.
  
  The only bad thing I could actually say about this game is lack of voice acting that was in Diablo, 
 such as the I can see what you see not poem in the Halls of the Blind, or Gharbad the Weak, The 
 Butcher "Ah Fresh Meattt", or the Mad sorcerer.
  
  This game ladies and gentlemen is what gaming is all about. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juck_VII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I first got LoD when it came out after Diablo 2 and loved every minute that I played this and Diablo 
 2. There is something about all the Diablo games that just suck you into them so much that you 
 don't want to stop playing its a guilty pleaser in its own since. I still play this game to this 
 very day I even had to pick up another copy of LoD due to my first one not wanting to read any 
 more. But the one thing this game as above all others is how additive it is there is like a little 
 voice that you can ignore for a while but when it roars you pick the game back up and than you 
 just cant stop. You will still get sucked right back into it so much that all other games are like 
 not worth the time to play at that time. I have only ever owned and played a few games that are 
 like this and all of them have gotten me in some kind of trouble one way or another. Weather its 
 I for get to do something around the house that my parents asked me to do, or I just dont want 
 to do any thing else but play this. When Blizzard made this game they knew what it would do and 
 they knew how it would be come a instant classic in no time. Since the announcement of Diablo 3 
 on the 28th of last month Diablo 2 and Lod have become the number one selling game for the pc this 
 week. I know this for a fact because I got the last copy of Lod from the gamestop right up the 
 street from me so if you want to get this game I would do it soon. And if you aren't able to get 
 your hands on it go to Blizzards online store you can download a copy of the game from there but 
 I don't know if you have to have a cd key or not so look into it before you buy it.
  Hope this helps any one looking to get this game or for any other reasons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeyDoYaThang
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  This official expansion introduces two powerful new character classes and scores of other new features 
 and enhancements that will leave you even less time for sleep or anything else. The most obvious 
 addition in this expansion is the option to choose from two new character classes, bringing the 
 total number of playable classes to seven with the addition of the Assassin and Druid.
  
  If you choose to play as one of these new classes, you must begin the game from the start,. Once 
 you complete the original four acts in the game you will be able to access the newly added fifth 
 act.
  
  Hirelings have been improved as well. You can actually outfit your hirelings with armor and weapons 
 and you can resurrect them if they happen to fall in battle. 
  
  Another improvement is that each character can now readily switch between two completely different 
 sets of equipment which is not just eye candy as it is very useful as well. 
  
  The expansion now lets you play in 800x600 resolution but you will need a high end machine to take 
 advantage of this higher resolution. You will also be able to see your enemies from farther away 
 thanks to the higher resolution which can give you an advantage over others that might be playing 
 in 640x480. Haha noobs!
  
  So if you liked Diablo 2 then Lord of Destruction is a must have. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudStrife645
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun but there are a few bad things. Lets start with good. I found the combat 
 is really fun and if you like a bloody game with lots of blood and gore you should get this game 
 it deserves its M for all the violance blood and gore in it but its fun. There are tons of ways 
 to pimp your hero. There are 7 classes and each has 3 tabs full of skills. There are tons of weapons 
 and lots of armor and sheilds too. Then you can get rings and amulets which give you lots of differant 
 things. The game has tons of quests each part 6 of them except for 5 and 6. 
  
  Now the bad stuff. The game has some parts that make you very frustrated like part 2 because that 
 is probably the hardest act. When you play with people sometimes they will be buttheads and steal 
 all of your stuff that drops from monsters.
  
  Thats about all folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyPlatypus
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Lord of Destruction is the expansion for the hack and slash game Diablo 2. It introduces better 
 graphics, more streamline gameplay, and another Act to finish off the final Prime Evil.
  
  In Diablo 2 you a warrior that is plunged into a gloomy world overrun by demonic forces. Diablo, 
 one of the three Prime Evils, has returned and intends to ressurect his two other brothers. The 
 cinematics are narrated by Marius, a pawn in Diablo's conquest.
  
  Lord of Destruction (Act V) begins after Diablo 2's Act IV ends. Baal, the last surviving Prime 
 Evil, is besieging a barbarian fortress. 
  
  New Features -
  
  Better Resolution - Lord of Destruction comes with a higher resolution, which means better graphics 
 and a larger view of the battlefield. Once you have tried the higher resolution, the original graphics 
 look shameful.
  
  Two Weapon Slots - Now you can switch between weapons with ease. For instance, you can have have 
 a sword and a shield as a weapon. Then you can press the II in the inventory. Now equip another 
 set of weapons. By pressing W you can toggle between the two weapon sets.
  
  More Equipment - A bunch of new weapons and armor are included in Lord of Destruction.
  
  New 
 Character Classes - You can now choose from not five but seven character classes. Included with 
 Lord of Destruction are the druid, a man of the wild that can summon beasts and command nature, 
 and the assassin, a master of martial arts that can set traps and control minds.
  
  Diablo 2 and Lord of Destruction together form a fun and addicting game that will drain hours and 
 hours of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  The bottom line for any game is not what kind of innovations it has.
  Do all you professional reviewers hear this !
  The bottom line is how fun is the game to play.
 
  I play this with the expanded stash mod.
  No other cheats or mods. I just like the expanded stash so I can carry more loot and treasure.
 
  Anyway as Action RPG's go not one to date has even come close to beating this one. Champions of 
 Norrath and Titan Quest are nice games but nothing and I mean nothing can touch the original Diablo 
 II. It is still the king of the hill despite the aged graphics. This is a game I will never forget.
 
  I moved on to Morrowind from this game. Oblivion in my opinion is just a horrible game. There 
 is more bad in Oblivion than there is good.
  I give Diablo II + LOD a 9.8 Almost Perfect.
  I give Morrowind a 9.8 Almost Perfect.
  I give Oblivion a 3 at best. That game is so unbalanced 
 and just does not make any kind of sense at all. I quit playing Oblivion and went back to Morrowind. 
 I bet it will be a while before we get another great RPG.
  They are getting very rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dshaw62197
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II: Lord of Destruction offers fans of this game series more of the same -- and here, that's 
 a good thing. Yes, there are the new characters to play (the assassin and the necromancer) ; there 
 are plenty of new monsters to slay and treasures to discover; and of course, there is the new end-of-game 
 boss, Baal, to vanquish. But most importantly, this expansion keeps the same elements of good game 
 play that made the first two Diablo games such winners. In fact, I'd go so far as to say that LoD 
 is perhaps one of the best add-ons I've ever played; it gave me exactly what I wanted, in a well-rounded 
 package, that made the transition from the original Diablo II to LoD almost seamless. If one were 
 to play both games back-to-back, you wouldn't miss a beat. In fact, it is safe to say that if you 
 played Diablo II and didn't dive right into LoD, you'd really be missing out -- like reading a 
 book and not finishing the last few chapters. LoD's strength is that it makes itself indispensable 
 for the true Diablo fan. So, if you've not yet taken the plunge, head into the word of Lord of 
 Destruction -- you're only cheating yourself of more hack-n-slash goodness if you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarwan_dude
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  After a month of drooling in front of the empty boxes displayed in a local game store's window, 
 I was finally able to purchase a copy of the Diablo II Expansion Pack. I'm not usually the kind 
 of grrl who runs out to buy all the expansion packs, strategy books, lunch boxes and action figures, 
 but the promise of two new character types (Druid and Assassin) and an additional Act in the game 
 beckoned me. This new add-on was released about a year after Diablo II, which was plenty of time 
 for me to conquer the game and feel hungry for more of my favorite hack-and-slasher. It was just 
 as well that they waited so long to release this expansion. After two months of non-stop Diablo, 
 my farmhouse and gardens were in disarray, my cats were breaking glasses in open rebellion, and 
 I gained too many pounds from the associated Pepperidge Farm cookie munching. 
  
  One reason why I love Diablo is because it is one of the few multi-player co-op games available. 
 My husband and I have a TCP/IP Ethernet network set up in our office; we sit back to back and take 
 turns refilling the coffee cups. He usually picks a hottie to play, and I usually end up playing 
 a burly guy  and speak for him with an Arnold Schwarzenegger accent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaspii00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, for both - classic players and role-players. It's genius even for today! 
 I believe everyone should check this out. Ok, sure, it's 2D, but what's the point! It'll always 
 be a great game. And if you wish to quit this, I doubt that you won't be playing this three weeks 
 later ;) . Though, it does have flaws, such as being frustrating and some stuff. You can never get 
 past the dungeons, they're really stupid and you have to remember every detail, such as which dungeon's 
 clear, where have you been... That's a problem, but more or less - The goods outnumber the bads. 
 
  
  So, my favorite thing - much of everything - starting from online, then the genre, to the fighting 
 and life. 
  Though, the know - it - all about the places... Errgh! I feel sick thinking of it. But it's not 
 such a bad thing either way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleStilkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  It really isn't that much of a difference then the original but it does add a extra level into 
 the game at the end and 2 new characters but other then that not really anything new. I would recommend 
 buying this just because everyone that owns Diablo II basically has this. The 2 new characters 
 a great but it does get annoying when the creatures always drop weapons for the new characters 
 more then for you. The 2 new characters are not that great either, everyone you see that plays 
 this on Battle. net is the original ones. Battle. net is still fun to play with friends and others 
 and defeat Diablo together will make you happy. This is a game that I would get if you liked the 
 original but if you didn't really care about it then just stay away and get another game (Like 
 StarCraft II or any other blizzard games.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HypnoticDj321
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II: LOD is simply the most amazing gaming experience ive ever had.
  
  So much so that 7 years later, and i still play.
  
  There is something about this game that 
 makes u come back to it, its atmosphere, the acts, the characters, are just perfect.
  
  Items in this game are probably the most unique, amazing and satisfying (once you get them) of 
 all games.
  
  
  
  
  If Blizzard Makes a diablo 3, well, LOL ill go kinda crazy, its that good!!
  
  
  Buy this 
 game ladies and gents, i doubt you will ever prove me 
 
  
  
  
  Not even Death can save you from Me!! - Diablo, Lord of Terror
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Like Brood war and The Frozen Throne, Lord of Destruction improves the original drastically. The 
 first addition you recognize is 2 brand new classes: Assasin and Druid. Of course some of us may 
 have doubt at first if these new classes are diffrent enough from the existing ones. But soon after 
 you enter the game as an assasin or druid, you will find they are quite distinctive and powerfully 
 enough. While assasin has several rogue-like skill and support multiple successive attack, druid 
 is adept at summoning and natural spell. Both are good enough to pass through most of the quests. 
 Moreover they also have their own special weapons and armors and are good looking.
  The content of the expansion is in chapter five of the game, which is no doubt the best chapter 
 considering both graphic, storyline and quests. You are teleported to a barbarian village under 
 sieged by Baal troops. At first everybody doesn't seem to trust you but you gradually gain their 
 respects with your deeds. The quests here seems to be better interrelative and rewards for them 
 are more satisfying: you can have one of your best stuff enchanted and even named after you. Besides, 
 the barbarian hirelings are useful for range and magic classes.
  Interface and control are also fixed. Better maps and hotkey system and most important you have 
 2 weapons skeme to switch between, which means more strategies in most case.
  Well done, Blizz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananapieman
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  when i first started to play diablo 2 LoD i played with my brother and my father then i got hooked 
 into it (i didn't play battle. net yet) then one day my brother let me on battle. net (had crap internet 
 connection or something idk (i don't know) i thought it was goodi had a few shots then after awhile 
 i forgot about diablo 2 LoD then i remembered it so i started to play again then i got back on 
 battle. net i played when they allowed hacks which was good but i didn't know how to hack haha then 
 i hoped off for a bit then when i got back on battle. net hacks were banned which was no surprise 
 only thing i hat is thoses spammers thats all i got to say a 10 out of 10 best game i think
  takes as long as you want theres no limit to the time
  i spent four or someting years on it not 
 a big knower just a happy player
  try the game its good.
  bananapieman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryoshi
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: This is where it gets simple. Everything looks so.. Just. Simple! Though that doesn't 
 make a huge difference, everything still looks pretty good, the shading and lighting is amazing. 
 It's in a 3D view that is similar to old Runescape (no the game doesn't look NEARLY that bad, only 
 comparing the camera angle) . Actually, a better angle to compare this to would be Super Mario RPG.
 
  
  Sound/Music: There is voice acting in this game, and it's done very well. You meet up with old 
 wizards, merchants, rulers, mercenaries and so on. The sounds are great; clean and crispy just 
 as we like 'em. There's grunts and screams, footsteps, fire burning, arrows firing from bows, stabbing, 
 slashing and hacking of swords and spears, bodies exploding -- it goes on and on forever, you get 
 the idea. The music is very good. It's somewhat like Lord of the Rings but not as orchestra-like. 
 It has an eerie sound to it which fits the scene of wherever you are. Basically, everything that 
 comes from your PC speakers, you will be pleased with.
  
  Difficulty: It's pretty easy, but then again there's some bosses and enemies themselves you'll 
 have a tough time fighting. Just work on getting EXP which can take a long while to do.
  
  Gameplay: This is a MMORPG which also has a single player mode, and you can choose from a nice 
 selection of different classes to use such as a Necromancer, Barbarian, Assassin, Amazon, and more. 
 You play through different lands and acts, going into dungeons and on the surface while fighting 
 Diablo's minions and completing quests. Some weapons and armor you collect are "socketed". This 
 means you can take any chipped jewel or rune you have, and place it into the equipment to up a 
 specific power (emeralds give weapons poison ability, sapphires give them ice, and so on) . Later, 
 you can combine certain items to make a more powerful one, but I won't spoil that.. When playing 
 online, you are able to party with other players or go hostile on them (only if they're level 9+) .
 
  
  Controls: Mostly all you have to do is click. You can use keyboard shortcuts to access the character 
 stats screen, skill menu, inventory, and so on. Of course, also you use the keyboard to chat (no 
 way!) . The interface is VERY simple to learn.
  
  Overall: There is a lot of hype about this game even after all the years it's been out, and the 
 hype is correct; this game is friggin' awesome. There's so much you can do in it and so many places 
 to go, and the world is very large. There's an endless amount of things you can find to use, and 
 an almost infinity range of customization possibilities for weapons and armor. There's just so 
 much about this game, I wouldn't ever be done. Why don't you find out for yourself? Pick yourself 
 up a copy of this game. 
  NOTE: If you get this game, make sure if you decide to get the expansion (which you totally should) , 
 make sure you get the original Diablo 2 first. You won't be able to work the expansion disc without 
 the original D2 installed. I learned this, the hard way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid4evur
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game has made it hard for me to get off the computer its so fun! Its and action rpg that has 
 open online that is free :) . There are alot of weapons you can get, alot of people you can get 
 to fight on your side. The missions are fun and are great to do online with a friend to make it 
 a little easier. Its one of my favorite pc games that you need to check out because a game like 
 this needs to be played. Diablo 2: Lords of Destruction is the expansion pack... to Diablo 2, It 
 has 3 new characters you can play as and alot more stuff in here makes it worth the wait. It's 
 really cheap now too probably only like twenty dollars or less. It has like five acts and you can 
 only see the people on the same act as you, as you progress through the game you can use waygates 
 to get to any act or checkpoint, which comes in handy when you need to find a friend whos in one 
 of the villages. The game is actually really fun, so much that you can play it over and over again 
 and not get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: id_DarKShaDoW
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Diablo II can be considered the "Daddy" of all hack&slash rpg's, and it most probably is... Nonetheless 
 it is revolutionary even though it's already 7 years old. The game-play is just like nothing ever 
 experienced before. Sure it uses a isometric graphic system but it is the best choice rather than 
 bulky 3D graphics of the time. The items detail is just amazing and Blizzard kept the Gothic feel 
 and look of them. The audio track blends in perfectly and naturally with the game-play. But all this 
 is not what makes the game so unique, it's the diversity of it, the shear proportions of the item 
 list, not to mention rune words which many of stand hidden until this day, tons of rare items, 
 many sets to choose from. Seven very well balanced character classes to choose from, suiting all 
 tastes, and a bundle of spells and abilities for each. And to top all that there is the multi-player 
 which just rocks, plus the battle-net. All this offers the game great replay value. The game was 
 a phenomenon at the time with millions and millions of fans, lots of people playing it to this 
 day. Blizzard would make a huge mistake to not continue the series judging by it's the game's previous 
 success.
  
  So in conclusion, Diablo 2 is one of those games that never ages, very addictive but with no doubt 
 fun, worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  Lord of Destuction was a great addition to diablo II and added some good depth and a great story, 
 but some things just left me kinda puzzled. Well actually it was one thing that left me a bit puzzled 
 and that was why the appearance of Baal was changed so drastically from Diablo II. I never understood 
 why this change was made but it certainly didn't take anything away from the game. 
  
  LOD added new levels, new bosses, new loot, and 2 new classes. Though the basic core gameplay was 
 unchanged, the new additions really helped keep that stale feeling of playing the same game away. 
 Assentially it was really no different than Diablo II but majority will agree that it most certaintly 
 added a lot of depth and new goals to strive for.
  
  If you played Diablo II (and enjoyed it) odds are you have this expansion, but if for some reason 
 you don't, then it is most certaintly a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainfez3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I played Diablo II on a Mac, and an old one at that. Upgrading to a super sleek PC with a gigantic 
 screen allowed me to try out the higher resolution 800 by 600. Even with that jump, Diablo II is 
 no graphical marvel, so if you're a superficial gamer, then I would suggest Titan Quest. However, 
 if you (like me) enjoy hacking monsters, scouring for awesome loot, and dungeon crawling with your 
 friends until your eyes hurt, then Diablo II is right for you.
  
  Lord of Destruction is an expansion set to Diablo II that adds an entirely new act, along with 
 an increased stash, 16 additional item sets, elite items, ethereal items, a mini-map function, 
 character-specific items, weapon swapping, new hireling options, more hotkeys, and a plethora of 
 more items through the addition of prefixes and suffixes. LOD also updates and fixes numerous aspects 
 of the original including several class skills.
  
  If you've bought Diablo II, then I strongly recommend buying LOD, as it will add several more hours 
 of gameplay and a load of extra features, most detailed above. The new quests in Act V are more 
 or less the same as quests in the other acts. Kill this creature or gather this item seems to be 
 the order of the day. The quest rewards however are, in my opinion, some of the best in the game. 
 One quest even yields the ability to customize a weapon with your name. The city that you receive 
 these quests from is named Harrogath. The people of this city are currently at war with Baal, the 
 final surviving Prime Evil, and it is removing this rather large thorn from the side of the people 
 of Harrogath that composes the main point of Act V. Harrogath has all the essentials: a healer, 
 a smith, a gambler, and, of course, Deckard Cain. Also, there is a man named Qual-Kehk who will 
 hire out Barbarian warriors to aid you in battle (but only after you complete a quest) .
  
  All in all, if you've played Diablo II, and loved it, then this game is more or less Blizzard's 
 way of loving you back. If you don't own Diablo II, then I would suggest buying it and then buying 
 this, or do what I did and get the Battle Chest. If neither of this options appeals to you, then, 
 I'm sorry Diablo, I failed you. Have Mercy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicdemon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Simply an amazing game that defined the hack-and-slash genre. The storyline continues to be interesting 
 and will keep you driving to the end. The three difficulties, including "Hardcore" mode - where 
 the player's game will end if they die, add to its replay value. Even though I am a huge fan of 
 new games with tons of eye-candy, the graphics don't even matter because the game is just plain 
 fun. 
  
  The expansion pack adds numerous items and gameplay factors that make it essential for owners of 
 the original Diablo 2. Two new playable characters have been introduced - the Assasin and the Druid. 
 There are hundreds of new items and many new recipes for the Horadric Cube. The stash size has 
 also been increased, allowing more time out in the field, hacking away at undead minions. You can 
 even convert your Diablo 2 character into an expansion character! Lastly, the max resolution has 
 been upgraded to 800x600.
  
  There are a host of mods out there that add to the game as well. They've all managed to keep me 
 playing this game long after I've beaten it the first time. Have fun playing this great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheeseboy666
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Just so you know I am reviewing this game as a whole, not LOD or D2 separately. So I will just 
 refer to it as Diablo 2. 
  
  Diablo 2 is another one of Blizzards classic games that is a testament to the superiority of game 
 play over graphics, (though that's not to say the 2d graphics aren't good, there very well done) . 
 It's been thought of as one of the definitive RPG's, and rightly so. Diablo 2 is an addictive, 
 well designed, and absolutely HUGE game with unlimited replay value.
  
  It follows the normal RPG formula: you create a character; you go whoop some demonic tail, get 
 XP, buy and sell phatter and phatter lewt, and all the while completing quests. It's simple, but 
 oh so fun. Combat varies wildly between characters and even the same classes. There are 7 classes 
 of character to choose from, each with 30 skills divided by 3 areas of expertise, i. e. -the paladin 
 can choose from offensive auras, defense auras, and combat skills. Because there's so much customization 
 with skills, there are practically infinite combos you can do, which is just one of the reasons 
 this game has so much replay value. 
  
  The games story is divided into 5 acts, all of which are pretty different in look, and has you 
 fight original monsters for each one, though some types are recycled through the acts *cough* maggots 
 *cough*. But that's ok, because monsters spawn randomly, meaning that each time you load the game, 
 it isn't just the same monsters in the same place anymore. Another part of the replay value. But 
 act 5 has completely new monsters, which comes as a real refreshing change. I found that out of 
 them all, I liked act 5 the most since it had obviously better graphics, but also a more focused 
 storyline between the 6 quests. All of them had to do something with the war against Diablo's cunning 
 metro-sexual brother Baal. 
  
  Each act starts with your character in the town of that act. There you can interact with npcs and 
 get quests. The voice acting of the npcs is as good as it should be. There's no B-grade Hollywood 
 talent you think you may have heard of once but that fine. After all with a story as simplistic 
 as D2's, there isn't much space for stellar performances. Of course, if you talk to them enough, 
 you can hear about a lot of back story in the game, but none of it is all that interesting unless 
 you're really into that kind of thing. The towns are very well animated, with beautiful looking 
 buildings and structures. Civilians will walk around, which really gives you a sense of being in 
 a large place, even though the towns aren't very big. In every town (excluding act 4) , there's 
 one npc you can go to that will let you hire a mercenary npc that will follow you around and level 
 up as well. You can equip them with armor, which is a great alternative to selling an old weapon 
 or armor piece you don't need any more. 
  
  At this point in time, there aren't very many people (comparatively) playing D2 on Battle. net, 
 and in my personal experience, half the time you cant join servers, and when you do, well, good 
 luck convincing who's there to play with you to go kick ass (can I say that?) . That being said, 
 there's an enormous amount of veteran strategies that you can access on the net that will be a 
 real help in your journey. 
  
  So in conclusion, Diablo 2 is a fun, addicting, worthwhile game that's definitely worth the money 
 you pay for it. You'll be surprised after all these years how engaging and fun it is. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  "You've seen it all before, but at least LOD offers new items and a surreal multiplayer experience."
 
  
  Hellfire, the expansion pack for the original Diablo, was an inadequate mix of items that were 
 so hard to find no sane player ever found them, levels that suffered from the "been there, done 
 that"-syndrome and a complete lack of multiplayer. Players blamed Sierra, the producers of Hellfire 
 for this travesty, so when time came to expand Diablo 2 Blizzard took the matter into their own 
 hands. Thankfully, they were far better at it then Sierra, but unfortunately, most of the problems 
 that plagued Hellfire also affect Lord of Destruction.
  
  The Diablo universe is know for having a rich mythos and copious amounts of story, especially for 
 an ARPG. As LOD starts up, a slick CG intro introduces players to the new villain in town: Baal, 
 brother of Diablo. He, or it, wants to unleash a powerful spell form a stone of some sorts to revive 
 his long lost brothers and reform the triumvirate of evil. Players are put in charge of "dealing" 
 with the problem by single handedly killing enough critters to populate a small country. The story 
 is wholly inadequate, especially when comparing it to the original Diablo 2's story which was more 
 than befitting of an ARPG. The characters are also lacking in the "coolness" department: How many 
 more times must I see an obese, bald looking thing with 4 legs dish out massive evil before developers 
 realize that I've gotten the message? The friendly NPCs, which made the Diablo series so involving 
 in the first place are also heavily lacking this time around: Their only purpose seems to give 
 you fetch quests or rant endlessly about stuff that no one cares about.
  
  LOD takes place in the land of the barbarians, somewhere in the north of the continent. In this 
 land it's always snowing, and, safe for some ass cracks of hell (read: optional levels) , the tile 
 sets remain pretty much unchanged: Snow and maroon looking tundra abound throughout LOD. The bigger 
 problem here is that the levels completely lack any sort of innovation. Hell, in fact two of the 
 levels even repeat themselves. And, in the fortunate case when the levels do not repeat themselves, 
 the same pattern of maze-like dungeons followed by open lands like in Diablo 2 is prevalent in 
 the expansion pack. It all feels a little bit blase and sloppy but it doesn't really damage the 
 game too much. Thankfully the quests, in this land, are far more rewarding. No longer will NPCs 
 send you into the wasteland to perform impossible tasks only to grant you a crappy ring that couldn't 
 pass as 2nd hand jewelry. Most of the quests involve item rewards of some sort, such as the ability 
 to have the blacksmith put sockets into your armor and weapons or receiving a permanent boost in 
 magic resistance from the priestess.
  
  The monsters are another story. Diablo 2 featured more monsters than you could shake a stick at 
 and while LOD doesn't fail to deliver in the "more" category, perhaps the developers should've 
 tried to also do something with the "original" category. Besides the fact that some monsters (like 
 the Yetis) are just old monsters with new skins many of the newer monsters in the game are terribly 
 imbalanced. The idiotic Imp Magicians are a fighter's nightmare as they teleport from place to 
 place while pummeling players with firebolts and other spells and the new Beasts, which are 3 times 
 your size, will go down with the mere swing of the blade for no apparent reason what so ever. The 
 experience yields are also a haphazard: Going farther ahead into the act doesn't actually increase 
 the experience you get from monsters all that much and the enemies don't become particularly stronger 
 either. One of the cooler touches about the monsters is a new battle against 3 super-powered bosses 
 named the Ancients which is an adrenaline pumping battle to the death. Thankfully LOD at least 
 has a good variety of new monsters ranging from the aforementioned Imps to new beasts such as Overseers, 
 huge whip-handling beasts or the Blood Lords, equally as big minotaurs wielding dual axes.
  
  The real rewards in the game rest with the items and the new characters. The number of items 
 that LOD introduces is gigantic: A whole new category of "elite" unique items has been introduced 
 along with a bunch of new sets. Weapons and armor can now be enhanced by using runes which have 
 effects raining from more life, to life leech or more magic find. As far as items are concerned 
 the expansion doesn't fail to live up to Diablo's general itemization which is the best and most 
 rewarding in the genre. The two new classes are also fairly unique on their own. The druid is a 
 nature abusing warrior/mage who can summon creatures to aid him or he can transform into different 
 forms such as werewolves or werebears. The assassin is a similar hybrid of warrior/magician who 
 can either chose to emphasize on traps, which act like normal spells except they fire multiple 
 times and enemies need to be within range, or on the assassin's special claws - quick and brutally 
 strong weapons with a high degree of accuracy. And before I forget, one new category of items introduced 
 in LOD are the class specific items. These items range the gamut from the sorceress's orbs to the 
 druid's helmets or the paladin's shields, replacing what each of the characters could've called 
 their "defining" item in the original.
  
  Like I mentioned earlier however, LOD repeats the 2 glaring flaws found in Hellfire: One was mentioned, 
 with the repetitiveness of the levels, but the other one are the item drops. Item drops for LOD's 
 new items, such as the elite helmet Harlequin's Crest, are so rare that by playing single player 
 no gamer could ever DREAM of achieving one of these items unless they repeatedly play through the 
 same sections of the game for hours at an end in the hope of actually finding them. Second, the 
 class-specific items also drop when fighting with classes that get NO benefits from using them. 
 In other words, after a long boss battle you might find yourself receiving a rare orb, which can 
 only be used by the sorceress... while playing as a warrior. The saving grace of LOD however, is 
 the fact that it doesn't tamper with the multiplayer.
  
  LOD is, hands down, the best online RPG to date. Everything in this expansion pack is seemingly 
 geared towards making online play better and in that aspect it doesn't disappoint. Online players 
 can still use trade windows to trade their items, the dispersal of rare items is much greater as 
 thousands of players are online constantly, and monsters as well as levels become far less boring 
 when the sole purpose of playing is to level up your characters and acquire more items. And make 
 no mistake; the SOLE purpose you'll find yourself playing online for is to become a stronger and 
 richer member of the community. The addictive nature of this grinding and finding process drives 
 LOD to whole new levels of accessibility and enjoyment. It doesn't much hurt that Battle. net is 
 a rock solid online service and that all devices needed to enjoy the game, such as party screens 
 or hostility toggles, are available and balanced to perfection.
  
  As far as graphics and sound are concerned LOD does a little bit more for both categories than 
 most expansion packs. The same level of monster detail, and the same accurate and gruesome death 
 animations spice up the visual experience in the expansion, however LOD also brings a better resolution 
 to the table. The new 800x600 resolution, while pathetically bad even for a game released in 2002, 
 looks MUCH better than what Diablo 2 had to offer. Equally, the sound component offers the expected 
 improvements, such as new voices for the new characters and new growls and war cries for the monsters 
 in the game, but in addition it also boosts up quality and offers a more refined 3D sound device.
 
  
  If LOD would've tampered with the multiplayer it would've fallen in the same boring and uninteresting 
 category as its predecessor. Luckily for Diablo fanatics everywhere, LOD doesn't do anything with 
 the multiplayer portion of the game, which ends up saving what would've otherwise been a mediocre 
 expansion pack.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Graphics: 6/10
  Overall: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulidarity
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 (including Lord of Destruction expansion) is one of the most addictive games you'll ever 
 play. Not so much because its fun, but more due to the fact that it brings out the most obsessive 
 tendencies in us all. 
  
  I mean, I enjoyed the game to a point, but after you've played through the quests a few times, 
 you'll begin to do what the majority of the D2 community does: farm items and go on experience 
 runs. And you'll do it for hours on end.
  
  Its incredibly boring, but you simply can't get enough, because you have to have that piece of 
 uber equipment that nightmare Mephisto drops. So you do countless "meph runs" taking less than 
 5 minutes each. Its voluntary Groundhog Day.
  
  The community itself is also both good and bad at the same time. If you're looking to do the popular 
 runs (meph runs, baal runs) you'll likely have no trouble doing so. However, if you actually want 
 to do some questing, and don't want to go solo, then you're going to have a hell of a time finding 
 party members that don't want to race ahead into later chapters. And some may simply join your 
 game, and solo stuff beyond your current progress, limiting how much you can accomplish before 
 needing to start a new game.
  
  Worse still are the duelers, pk's, and item beggars.
  
  Duelers - These guys aren't so bad for the most part, but when they show up in a game with a specific 
 purpose, such as a mephisto run, or a questing game, and start pestering you to duel them, it can 
 be annoying
  
  pk's - The guys that are just out to ruin everyone else's fun. They show up for no reason other 
 than to kill you. In "hardcore" mode, its almost understandable, since living on the edge is the 
 entire point, but in "softcore" where a death only results in lost experience and gold, these guys 
 can be a real annoyance.
  
  item beggars - The worst of the lot. They assume that because you're a higher level, that you must 
 have some uber equipment that you're just sitting on (what's funny about this is that many of them 
 have separate high level accounts that they could simply farm the items for themselves with) . They'll 
 hit you with a barrage of "free itam plz", before cussing you out for being "greedy" and leaving.
 
  
  Overall, though, it isn't necessarily a bad game (as indicated by my score) . You'll definitely 
 play it enough to get your money's worth. Its just unlikely that you'll look back on it as one 
 of your better gaming experiences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 itself is a great game that wields wonderful hack and slash fun with 4 fun acts to go 
 through and characters that have there own strengths and weaknesses.
  The expansion pack takes it a large step forward, introducing 2 new classes (Assassin and Druid) , 
 runes, and an extraordinary act 5.
  The real diamond in this expansion pack is certainly the 5th act introduced where after you kill 
 Diablo in act 4, you now have to go after the 3rd of the brothers in the 5th act. I forget what 
 the place is called that you travel to but it is a barbarians encampment that is under siege by 
 baals minions. As you exit the encampment it is an amazing battle as you cut through hundreds of 
 demons while catapults shoot you with different elements from afar.
  As an expansion pack to an already great game this deserves a 9.5. You couldn't ask for to much 
 more from an expansion pack, it gives you more items, classes, levels, and story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wibles
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  OK - six and half years old? Why the hell am I reviewing a game so old in the tooth?
  
  Well it's really in appreciation of the extreme magnetism that this game holds over you. I play 
 other games from time to time, but this is the only game I routinely install whenever I reinstall 
 my home system which is frequently for my job. And it's still seventh on my list of applications 
 to install behind Trillian and in front of MS office.
  
  Initially the game was addictive in almost every aspect of gameplay - from character advancement 
 to collecting items and building an armoury of capabilities to defeat the boisses. And even now 
 the attraction of building characters with new strengths and finding an interesting methodology 
 to improve the gameplay with the chosen character is still compelling.
  
  I have only played the Paladin, Sorceress, Barbarian and Necromancer to date all the way through 
 from start to finish without any assistance from other characters. I suppose by the time its long-lasting 
 appeal fades in 2020, I'll have done the other three aswell.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woges
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Lord of Destruction (LoD) adds precisely the right formula to make Diablo 2 (D2) a truly great 
 Hack and Slash CRPG. The features of the expansion include; a fifth act (northern Barbarian Lands) , 
 two new classes  the Assassin and Druid, Weapons & Armour (such as Ethereal items; Class Specific 
 items, extra Set items) , Runes and Rune-words, Jewels, Charms, extra storage space, and NPCs. LoD 
 also adds the ability to play in 800x600 resolution.
  
  As you can tell this really adds a lot to the original package, and it makes D2 a richer experience 
 by expanding on the focus of the original  character building. LoD does little to the core game 
 play of D2 but it adds to the already varied character system to give the player a fairly complex 
 set of character builds. Charms and Rune-words add another layer for the hardcore masses that make 
 up many of D2 players. While the addition of Act 5, and the two new classes, adds replay value 
 to casual players also.
  
  Act 5 it self is one of D2's most interesting. You find yourself chasing after the brother of Diablo, 
 Baal. The last of the Prime Evils intends to corrupt the Worldstone, in essence exactly the same 
 as the World Tree supporting the heavens, and thus, connecting the world of Diablo (Sanctuary) 
 to it's heavens (much like Yggdrasil of Norse mythology) .
  
  Starting in the small town of Harrogath you need to fight your way up Mount Arreat. This comprises 
 of something like 24 new zones, 7 of which are totally optional (though some of these areas have 
 quests that give permanent rewards to your character) . Of course there are some new monster types 
 to take on, and new boss encounters. Somewhat larger and more gratifying than D2's rather short 
 original final act.
  
  If you have D2 (and enjoy it) you really should get this, it's still setting the bar for action 
 rpgs today. The hack and slash game play may not be for all and the end game maybe repetitive  
 but no one genre fits all does it? The 2D graphics some may find dated but they do give D2 a look 
 and feel that just works right. Something that isn't always achieved in 3D gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falcon159
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the most fun and addictive roleplayers to ever hit the market. The game 
 is nearly 6 years old and it is still going strong even with the massive fanbase of World of Warcraft. 
 Ironically, both titles come from the big Blizzard. 
  
  At this point the main comparison has to be with World of Warcraft, simply because it is so massive 
 and widely played. The truth is, many of the qualitys that keep people coming back to WoW are taken 
 directly out of the Diablo realm. The quests, infinitely customizeable items, spells, and just 
 the extensive character development in general all started with Diablo. Take Warcraft III and smash 
 it together with Diablo 2 and you get WoW -- simple as that.
  
  Right now you can still get a Diablo 2 Battlechest in most places, and for a very inexpensive price. 
 I would suggest checking it out if WoW doesn't appeal to you. Whether it be the long travel distances, 
 cheesy graphics (c'mon Blizzard what is with the cartoon graphics of the latest Warcraft games?) , 
 or anything else that the general public seems to overlook. I still play Diablo 2 in favor of Wow. 
 The graphics are quite good for such an old game, the action is non-stop and accessable at will, 
 and Blizzard does not fail to keep the game alive online with patches and hidden content that add 
 quests even the most advanced players have trouble completing. 
  
  Lord of Destruction was a perfect addition to it all; a few new character classes, one more act 
 of play, tweaks to the skill sets, new item customization, etc. It all added up to be alot of new 
 content that keeps the game going even longer by adding an infinite amount of depth to an already 
 extensive game. It is essential if you are at all interested in the game.
  
  Overall, Diablo 2 will appeal to the people that want an extensive RPG but don't want to devote 
 the greater portion of their life (or cash) to. It is easy to do a single quest in an hour, walk 
 away and come back at a later time. Think of it as a more arcade version of WoW, and that not a 
 bad thing, yes its old, but its still kicking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TicTacSuicide
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II is a great game and there has been alot more packed in it, as the title says. The changes 
 from the first Diablo I would consider significant, and for alot of different reasons. The things 
 that they've done with this game has made it so that alot has changed and this game can be expanded 
 out into so many different things, such as different placement of things everytime you play, just 
 the sockets, gems, they way you can customize equipment, the different enemies you encounter, all 
 sorts of things. It seems as though the gameplay is alot faster then the earlier one, mainly because 
 of the click and destroy type gameplay seems faster, and the way you cast spells with different 
 clicks of buttons seems to make it a lot quicker. Although this game has a lot to offer, there 
 is still the flaws to be noticed. Sometimes it seems as though more could have been added, but 
 that's not saying that there is little now, I think it's fine now. I just think by opinion that 
 alot more could have been added to this already huge game. (Counting the expansion.) Sometimes 
 I have some trouble with the sound clips, I don't know if that's just my copy or others, but it's 
 not that big of a problem. There isn't to many flaws in this game, and the ones it does have don't 
 stick out like a sore leg like in most in this genre. Overall this game is alot better then it's 
 recent and alot of the things that could have been fixed, seemed like they were taken care of, 
 or modified.
  
  So I gave this game a rating of 8.3, thank you and please enjoy Diablo II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: error404_
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  What makes this game great is the great variety of items.
  This makes the in-game trading fun and interesting,
  and online play through battle net was revolutionary.
 
  
  Blizzard always takes their time on developing their game,
  assuring the bestest quality before releasing the game,
  same goes for this game diablo2 is very 
 detailed and I have never encountered any glitch. (although some people dupes items I hear)
  
  Personally though there are few other games that are as good as an RPG but not as popular as 
 this game, and I believe diablo2 is way more popular due to the online play.
  
  I think that other company that makes great RPGs should implement the idea of online play like 
 battle-net and they will become more popular.
  
  This game will remain the pioneer of online play though,
  battle-net was revolutionary and brought 
 lots of casual gamer to addiction.
  
  The only downside I see is the PVP aspect.
  After certain level (about 40) it's either you die in 1hit or you kill the other player in 1hit. 
 There's usually no "Good fight" in pvp caz it mostly ends in a blink. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  This game was just addictive, it was evil and putrid and... fun. I played it for gods knows how 
 long! Doing quests and repeatedly just mashing the monsters for money and EXP so that I could eventualy 
 get up to that blessed level where I eventually took down the monster. Then I played with others 
 and helped them and gradualy as with all things played it less and les until it was mysteriously 
 unistalled leaving save files and item lsits behind.
  
  I highly recomend that you look at this game, its to out of date to be truely interesting but there 
 are others in this genre of painfully addictive fun mongering evil! Spell force for example but 
 thats another review.
  
  Enjoy but beware the game is not just a disc, it is alive and it feeds on gamers souls! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halochief_101
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  I got this game awhile ago and I play it online all the time i just love it :)
  first let me start with this...
  
  Graphics ---- The graphics are pretty much what i expected 
 there pretty decent though.
  
  Gameplay ---- really good i like how the paladin can use the holy hammers looks cool
  
  Replay ---- 
 Yes this game has got good replay value
  
  Online --- Playing online on this is really fun you can join games host games and whatnot and i 
 beleive you can get up to level 99
  
  i recommened getting this game for online
  
  9.2
  
  
  lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  And you thought the first one was great? 7 classes or races or whatever you want to call them. 
 I think there are 7. IDK. but that's still alot. Same great gameplay like in the original. Except 
 it's a longer game. I really don't know how to start describing this game for newcomers. It's easier 
 if you have already played the first. Well of course it's a action RPG which mean its already going 
 to be good, just like elder scrolls oblivion. but like i said in my review for diablo1, if you 
 dont mind dated graphics ( which most of you DO ) Then this game is absolutely flawless in every 
 way. From its high addictiveness rate to its MASSIVE multiplayer newtwork. Too bad part 3 hasnt 
 come out yet or else i wouldnt be writing this review. Instead id be playing part 3 right now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kisameboyz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  this game is so fun that i have spent hours and hours playing this game. one time i got in alot 
 of trouble because i didnt do anything around the house for a whole week, i was playing diablo 
 2.
  
  the gamplay on thus game is so fun, alot better than guild wars, or WOW. i really like the fast 
 past action and the instant cast spells. also you no longer have to say, "i need a monk for this 
 quest." you are your on healer with potions, mana and health.
  
  graphics arnt that good but it was made in 2001, what do u expect? still not that bad though.
 
  
  sound is ausome. hearing you hacking and the bow going, "to to to." when u shot it is awsome
 
  
  the only problem i have for this game is that alot of people scam to get items for free. they will 
 put op a good item for trade for your good item. you will like the trade ond click accept. then 
 they will exit the trade and say sorry. go back in, wait for you to put up your items then put 
 up items that looked the same to the other items that are differernt!!!
  
  the game is very fun but the only reason i played it so long is my computer sucks but i go a new 
 one so i will be playing something else soon. get this game if you dont like the style of WOW or 
 guild wars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBird228
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  This expansion adds more characters, weapons, and a new level. It does this incredibly well, adding 
 many new features, and much complexity to the game. If you really like and finished Diablo II, 
 you should definitely get this. I love the new Druid Class, a sort of hybrid melee/ shapeshifter/ 
 wizard character. Along with this also come various new weapon combos and sets. Yet the most spectecular 
 thing, is the new "Barbarian level". I don't want to spoil the plot, but Baal is making a direct 
 attack on Mt. Arreat, home of the soulstone. It's up to you to stop them. In this level there are 
 various exciting new monsters and cutscenes. I think Blizzard once again outdid them selves on 
 this expansion, so if you like the original, run, don't walk, to get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  I have left this game for more than 2 years but I still miss it in deep mind. I think it's unnecessary 
 to repeat how good Diablo II: Lord of Destruction is. Its fame can explain everything. My review 
 here is just to enhance one thing: Diablo II: Lord of Destruction offers a great multiplayer mode. 
 It saves characters online on its OFFICIAL servers. That feature is very important and its the 
 key why Diablo II is so popular! Diablo II: Lord of Destruction actually gave me lots of good memories 
 though I am a Sci-Fi fan, LOL. Maybe I have good taste. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kizzman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Diablo i game for 13 years and older good fun on battel net go vsing me around and if u like your 
 fighting games this is the one i play diablo a lot i sould no its not that good on 1 player u dont 
 do much on 1 player when you get to a higher lvl u can go rushing people and stuff good fun when 
 u are a lvl 99 ive never been there before i hope i get there one day well thats all u can say 
 about it u can get gold and by sweet wepeons and fight people or join there party to go fighting 
 to FORCES OF ELVIL!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokikitty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  First, I must say, I haven't played this game in over a year. That said, there isn't a week that 
 goes by that I don't think about installing it again just to get my fix. Someone once referred 
 to Diablo LOD as digital crack, and I still cannot think of a better description of this game. 
 Once you start playing, you play more and more. Then you show your friends. Then you make them 
 buy a copy. And so on. It's a vicious cycle.
  
  The story: You are a hero who is following a fellow called The Dark Wanderer. Your job is to try 
 to prevent the world from ending by killing 3 primeval demons before they take over the world. 
 You follow the Dark Wanderer from Act to Act, and in the process learn more about how to prevent 
 World's End.
  
  Controls: Point and click is the basic controls for this game, as well as various hot keys for 
 more options. That's pretty much it for controls.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game excels. You can choose what type of character you want to play. 
 These character builds are Barbarian, Amazon, Paladin, Sorceress, Necromancer, and in LOD there 
 are also Druid and Assassin. Not only that, you can choose what subtype to play as well. For example, 
 say you wanted to play an Amazon. You could choose a bow and crossbow build, a javelin and spear 
 build, or a melee build that relies on passive skills such as dodge. Then after that, you then 
 choose what sub subtype to play. Say you chose to be an Amazon who specializes in bows. Great. 
 Now what kind of attacks did you want to specialize in? You could choose to be a frozen arrow kind 
 of gal, or maybe you want something more showy like maybe using multiple arrows? The choice is 
 yours. In my humble opinion, character creation is probably the best thing about this game.
  
  To play online or not: I'm not one who really likes multi player games, just a personal thing, 
 but the 8 player limit makes it a whole lot more bearable. It is recommended that for the harder 
 bosses, that you do team up. That said, you can still get the benefits of online playing, for example 
 trading items and new maps every time you log on, and still play by yourself. Just make a game 
 with a password, and you will enjoy a private game. Plus, if you find yourself needing help, you 
 can still create games for multiple players. The best of both worlds.
  
  The world of Battlenet: First and foremost, this is a free service. That means that there are issues 
 with Battlenet updating a lot, scammers galore, and having yourself kicked out of games for no 
 good reason. I feel that the sheer amount of games being created all the time, plus Battlenet trying 
 to reduce cheaters and hackers, does justify a lot of the issues faced when playing on their network. 
 It helps to have a lot of patience!
  
  The online community tends to cycle from helpful to hacker, but I never had too many problems. 
 If they like you, you could end up with free items. Just don't beg constantly, and if you want 
 a high level person to help you get through the harder levels of Nightmare and Hell modes, then 
 it helps to offer them something in return. Not always, but it is the polite thing to do.
  
  So, if you are looking for a game where there are a lot of choices in how you play, where you 
 can kill to your heart's content, and where every game you play has a chance of finding really 
 fabulous items, then you need to get and play this game. Then you need to tell all your friends, 
 and their friends, and so on, and so on... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainBlaze
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  this expansion formally introduces us to Baal, the lord of desrtuction!
  
  it is set in the far north in the lands of which the mighty barbarians hail from, Harogath. i hope 
 your ready because your pretty much dropped right in it..... as Harogath is under seige!
  
  you have the option of continuing with the character you used to defeat diablo of you can start 
 again with 1 of 2 new character additions, the Assasin or the Druid.
  
  this is new chapter is probably the longest one of all - and definatly the hardest. There are heaps 
 of new minions of hell to kill and a few of them are VERY strong so be warned - bring you best 
 and be on constant guard.
  
  all in all this is a very worthy expansion to an excellent game of which i will no dout play over 
 and over again.
  
  is there any end to blizzards talent? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  It's very hard to find a replacement for something so addictive as Diablo 2. I've been playing 
 Diablo 2 ever since the second closed beta. And lately I've tried to find replacements for D2 because 
 I was getting kind of sick of the graphics, and there was no new content to explore. Every time 
 I tried another D2 clone , within months, I went back to Diablo.
  
  I think game companies are struggling trying to figure out just what it is that Diablo 2 has that 
 makes it so popular. Games have come out with prettier graphics, much more items, much more customizations, 
 quests, you name it. But they all fall short; either the gameplay isn't as easy, or there are TOO 
 many items and customizations, or it's just plain broken.
  
  Hints of Blizzard prepping for a Diablo 3 game just make me ecstatic. No one else can do it, only 
 Blizzard has a chance for outdoing themselves. But's that is still a high mark to cross, even for 
 them.
  
  Gameplay: Simple, refined, easy; You click, you move, you attack. Lots of options for skills, each 
 class feels and plays differently enough to keep you coming back for more.
  
  Sound: Atmosphere unprecedented at the time, really feels like you're decending into hell to fight 
 off the hell-spawn invaders.
  
  Graphics: Great for it's time, doesn't hold up though. 800x600 is the max resolution and it really 
 feels small. It would be great if they updated the graphics a bit, maybe would help in the absence 
 of D3.
  
  Bottom Line: It's the definitive Hack-N-Slash game with no equal. D2 is one of those rare games 
 that keeps finding it's way to your hard drive, even after all these years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UntoldLegendMan
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best thing ever its so addictivce i missed so much homework i almost failed 7th 
 grade best game ever its just that i cant even say one hundred words of how good this is. but i 
 have to or you wont see this report i hope that three comes out early instated of november i cant 
 wait but its so gonna be worth it. its proboly gonna be worth100 bucks. the only part thats gonna 
 suck is my money going down from how much money iv been spending this year over 10000 in games 
 becasue of new computers and i got a job. so my parnts porbly spent 1 or 2 k. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RelXe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Now this is game i can talk about, Diablo II... i havnt really played it much... but Diablo II 
 LoD... yep that's a whole different story :)
  Just like Diablo II but just with much and much more new items, quests, bosses just perfect.
 
  When i reached my peak of having 30 x Stone of Jordan , Windstorm, Eaglehorn, 4 x IST shield, 
 2 x IST ali baba etc. etc. The stones of jordan were worth NOTHING anymore, bam just like that. 
 So i was so mad at the game i didnt play for at least 3 months... So if you're an experienced diablo 
 player.. you know your account gets deleted after 3 months... And so i wanted to start playing 
 again, noticing that the Soj's were worth more than ever.
  Played it again for a while but then got to my peak again in like 3 months so didn't see any challenge 
 in the game anymore. I had my handsfull with new far more developed MP games. So i quit.
  So were my glorious days of Diablo II :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnightGuard
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game when playing it online. It is very easy to beat the game (with other people, 
 unless a character is made to solo) in a short amount of time. The only reason to keep on playing 
 this game for a long period of time is when you are playing PK. In PK, all you are going to fight 
 other players. This is where it is very hard. It is easy to beat the game, but the other players 
 will always kick your ass, unless you spend extra money on ebay to buy godly items, bot to get 
 your items, or have someone give you items for free. It is nearly impossible to get anything good 
 by playing the game normally, unless you get really lucky, even if you play for a really long time. 
 If you do buy items, get lucky, or are given items, then it will be a VERY fun game to play. It 
 is hard to get these items, but once you do it is a very easy game. When fighting with other players, 
 it depends mostly on the items you have, and then how good you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  From afar, Lord of Destruction appears to add very little into the Diablo II experience. A couple 
 of new character classes and a new Act to play through? Once installed however, it takes the original 
 release and polishes it into a slicker and more interesting game. The big additions are excellent 
  the Assassin and Druid classes are both well-balanced and exciting to play, and the new Act features 
 some terrific epic battles. But its the small things that matter the most. How such simple, tiny 
 things make a such huge difference is astonishing: something as basic as being able to switch between 
 two sets of weapons at a keystroke actually makes the game more fun to play. And easier, of course. 
 Other enhancements include the addition of runes and jewels that can be placed in socketed items 
 to grant powers in the same way as gems, a bigger stash that lessens inventory juggling, an improved 
 mini-map, hundreds of new items thanks to extra prefixes and suffixes, and so on. Enhancements 
 aside though, Lord of Destruction still features the core Diablo hack n slash gameplay  click, 
 click and click some more. Repetitive, mindless  for better or worse nothing has changed.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  This expansion features one big improvement graphics-wise: 800x600 resolution. 
 Still hard on the eyes, but a great help after the 640x480 cap of the original game. The environments 
 featured in the extra Act arent anything to write home about, but the monsters are reasonably 
 good.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Theres a pretty good score for the final Act; I found it to be considerably less bland than the 
 dull, doomy tunes of the main game. Its still nothing youll miss if you turn your speakers off 
 and stick on your favourite monster-bashing song instead.
  
  Value: 9/10
  As expansions go, its excellent. A fairly meaty extension to the game story and a whole bunch 
 of extras that probably should have been in the game to begin with. Then of course theres the 
 multi-player, if thats your bag.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  Great.
  
  Pros:
  Good extension to the story.
  Improved graphical resolution.
  Dozens of small gameplay and 
 interface improvements.
  
  Cons:
  Still graphically bland.
  No option to jump right in at Act V.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you play Diablo II, chances are youve 
 got this already. If you havent, you should: it will improve the experience ten-fold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeusZ
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  One note to anyone planning on buying this game and playing on Battle. net (multiplayer feature) . 
 If you wish on getting anywhere near getting the full experience of the game, prepare to pour countless 
 hours into this game. I wouldn't be surprised to see people who have played this game 1000+ hours. 
 With that out of the way, let me get on with the rest of the review.
  
  You know how people say that you have a feeling of self accomplishment after you work hard to get 
 something? this game is all about working hard. You might have to kill a boss thousands of times 
 just to get enough equipment to start yourself off.
  
  Enough of the scaring. There is always something to work for. An item may have MILLIONS of different 
 combinations of modifiers. The chance of getting everything to make a runeword -an item that contains 
 a certain combination of runes- are slim, let alone getting perfect stats.
  
  The L33Ter end of the community is filled with dedicated hardcore gamers . Simply the drive to 
 be the best spurs everyone forward. After this long, most of the young kids that played the game 
 have left. Now for the bad points of Diablo II. The graphics are nowhere near stunning, but they 
 do not distract from the gameplay at all. Trust me, it took a while for my friend to convince me 
 to buy the game. However, I will never regret the $40 that I spent for the game &amp; expansion. 
 This may actually be a + point to you, since practically any computer can handle it.
  
  The game may get a little boring after a while, but after a short two month break the game gets 
 all of its charm back.
  
  Conclusion:
  You will never regret buying this game, if you are willing put the time into it. The graphics are 
 less than spectacular, but it has no effect on the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexel23
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows the gameplay, quality and alertness of this game, but why such a game engaged millions 
 of people in a frenzy-like armageddon ? This game is one of the best in it's genre because of three 
 elements combined in one , elements that few games since then have been capable of binding together. 
 One is COMPLEXITY ( the game is complex in it's constitution and probability , ensuring every game 
 to be different) , another is SMOOTHNESS ( Hell now ! Anyone can play this game ! It's more popular 
 than dices and backgammon ) and the third is ADDICTION ( give a game some addictive situations 
 and you will ensure many gamelust players ) . Honestly, the storyline is simple as can be, the action 
 is linear and the sounds are basic. The cherry on the cake is the great hack'n'slash system providing 
 an isometric view. Games like Diablo are made every 10 years. Thank You Blizzard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richard2day15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  A great new addition to a already kickin game. New sets, magic weapons , uniques, and the best 
 new addition, CHARMS. This makes the game allot better in ways of powerups just by putting them 
 in your inventory. The single player has some good cut scenes and a good story line. Its amazing 
 with only like 6 or 7 cut scenes it holds up the storyline so well. The good part of the game is 
 the multiplayer battlenet. Online you can be legit or you can play with hacks. Probably on of the 
 best features of the game. The story mode was pretty good when you defeat the lords of darkness... Diablo, 
 Medafisto, and Baal. I give the story mode a good 9. The Multiplayer a 10 and everything else in 
 between 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Blizzard block buster games are Diablo, Starcraft and Warcraft. Each one of them have their own 
 series. Each games have their unique sign of story and gameplay. No doubt that D2 - Lod is a kick 
 arse game.
  
  LOD is an expansion pack of Diablo 2, this time it has a new act, Act 5. This time you must kill 
 Baal, The Lord of Destruction. Also you have 2 new heroes including the original 5 heroes. Of course 
 they have up and down in their abilities, power and skills. This game is more adventure than RPG 
 because is more killing then being an message boy to go point A to point B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henriquez63
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  One of te best RPGs out. Right up there with final fantasy and the tales series.
  k kj lkjlj lkjlj ljklj kjkljkj ;jkl jjlkjkljlk jj lkjlkj lj ljlkj lk; j lkj ljl jj lkj l; jl; j lj 
 lj lkj lkj lj lj l; kj lj lj lkj lkj lj lj lkj jlkj lj ljljlkj lj lkj l l; j l lkjlk jl lj lkj klj 
 lj lkjlj klj lj lj l j lkj ;l jl; jl; kj ;lj ljlkj jlkj ;l j; lkj l; j lj lj l; j lj klj lj l; j . j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j jj j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aminal_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  I played Diablo2 for about 4 years and had a blast. I thought it was great when they made the patch 
 and update giving a new focus and purpose to the game. That is when all the problems with playability 
 started. Blizzard uses a lot of the same servers for D2 that are used also for WOW ( Diablo2 and 
 World of Warcraft respectably) . After the update for Diablo2 went into effect they also updated 
 WOW. The crashes in the game went nuts. In the middle of a battle you would lose the server. If 
 doing the final area where you had to work so hard for the keys and organs. You get there to face 
 off with the 3 final bosses in a must play battle ( especially if fighting alone) to believe. You 
 are there giving it your all and LAG!!! then heavier LAG!!! Even more LAG!!!!. You get killed!!! 
 or worse you get booted! if you get killed you have a slight chance of getting back into the room 
 and game. You have a very slight chance of winning and getting a sought after torch! But if you 
 are booted which happens more times than any other all the work for the random key drops and the 
 battles against Lilith and her other ilk to get the body parts to go after the big 3 are gone in 
 an instant! Multi many hours of hard playing gone in an instant. Why , well ask Blizzard. Almost 
 all their updating and server work if going into WOW. They make money on those servers. They even 
 stopped resetting the ladder play which made Diablo2 really lots of fun because you could start 
 off with a clean slate and go for fame by getting your name up for how fast you got to the highest 
 level. Blizzard used to give out prizes for the top players.
  Now there is nothing going into Diablo2. It seems that the games that put Blizzard on the top is 
 forgotten by them. They haven't done anything to help. Their words we are not responsible for items 
 lost because of the server going down or crashes. They just don't care about D2 anymore or about 
 the many d2 players that still love and play the game. Many copies are still being sold and bought 
 by you and I who want to play a game that can hold your attention for literally YEARS but it seems 
 tha Blizzard no longer cares. If your a WOW player you get many new maps and ideas ands updates 
 etc. BUT if you are a D2 player you are overlooked like a speck of dust swept under the carpet. 
 It's really too bad that we D2 players have been all but forgotten about ( and I have my doubts 
 about the all but ; Personally I think we have been discarded completely) because D2 really is 
 a great game. Fun to play, highly addictive! It's the kind of game that can keep you occupied for 
 more gaming hours with loads of re-playability. But as it stands now without any TLC the game is 
 going downhill. It needs to get cleaned up, the constant crashing and lagging, being unable to 
 make games because of server problems. All these need to be addressed by a company that still cares. 
 The way it looks now that isn't happening and probably won't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  I name my Assassin character Elektra... Anyway, with 2 new characters, a new level (with a new 
 baddie who calls himself Bhaal) and tons of new loot, this is a very worthy buy for a great game. 
 Also, it's juicier if you patch it up to 1.09 or beyond for attractive amounts of new set equipments 
 and uniques. Boy, another round of sleepless nights...
  
  With the patch, it makes the game more exciting to try out all the classes just to test out the 
 effects of the class-specific sets. Diablo 2 LOD fully brings out the meaning of fun! Check out 
 the cool intro cinematics too as it really spurs me into starting the game after watching.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  Ever since 1996 Diablo has been of of the most recognized RPGs of all time and that should come 
 to no surprise that the sequel Diablo 2 does a helluva a lot better that the original in terms 
 of length. Now what surprises me is even though this game came out in 1999 it is still of of the 
 most played games at internet cafes and even on other people's computers. The game itself is not 
 the most advance looking game, but hey who cares about graphics as long as it has good gameplay. 
 Diablo 2 is one of the easier games to get online with and you don't have to pay any monthly fee 
 cough*phantasystaroline*cough.
  The sound on Diablo 2 is still pretty good even by today's games and the way the game plays is 
 very easy. The one compliant I have about Diablo 2 is probably the way the classes are set up and 
 I know that Blizzard tries their best, but let's hope they fix it by Diablo 3 if they ever come 
 out with it. Even if there are better RPGs out there you should play Diablo 2 to remind yourself 
 of how good an RPG can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  It may not have the best graphics around, but it's still an awsome game. Blizzard made sure this 
 game was going to be a hit and they did it. The characters are all really cool to use and have 
 unique skills. The monsters are not cowerds at all. The items are nice looking and the weapons 
 are cool as well. The land is full of adventure and suprises. Many compete against Diablo 2, but 
 I believe Diablo 2 pwns them all. The multiplayer is great especially with all your friends. The 
 cinematics are dull, but the action makes up for it. In conclusion I love this game and I can't 
 stop it's just addictive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  i played this game before Diablo 1. But then i played Diablo 1 soon after. This game is Amazing 
 and i will go through the good points and the bad points...
  
  the good: You can play as A druid and an assassin in this bonus pack. And you get to play another 
 world and kill Baal. The characters in this game all have their special techniques and can learn 
 more when leveling up. I completed this game with the Amazon. But all the other characters rule 
 too. There are also a tonne of weapons and armour like Swords, Bows, Daggers, Scimitars, Sabers, 
 Plate Mail, Splint, Mail, Studded Leather armour and much, much more including a lot of magic armour 
 and weapons.
  
  the bad: The only thing about this game i can complain about is that your character is never in 
 any of the cut scenes but that is obviously not a big deal..
  
  Overall: you have to get this game it is amazing. I prefer this to the first Diablo although i 
 like both of them. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkieDonkey
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Lod give you a whole new act and make the story more spice.
  The story goes like this: The brother of Diablo came to the city of the barbarians to find and destroy 
 ancient crystal, The Crystal of The World.
  So you have to stop him by make a lot of interesting missions that you never so before!
  The 
 new package give the choice of 2 new characters, The Assassin and The Druid.
  The Druid let you control the nature powers, become an animal and summon animals.
  You can control 
 Hurricanes by putting points in the nature power skill and control volcano earth quakes and much 
 more....
  When you choose the become animal skill you can become a wolf or /and a bear (there are equipped 
 skills for the wolf and the bear) .
  if you choose the summon you can summon wolfs, ravens and pliantly of of wicked monsters
  
  
 The Assassin can drop traps that start working when there are enemy's in the area. You can use you 
 body parts, it means you can kick your enemy's a powerful kick or use you claw...
  The last skill for the assassin is power ups for you weapons (claw and throwing stars) .
  
  The 
 Lod pack let you store more room in your storage box, it means you can have more items or things 
 with you by putting them in the box.
  The graphic of course is like the game himself (Diablo) solid 3D with 2D elements.
  
  Thank 
 you for reading, DorkieDonkey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kave1793
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 4, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  Diablo II: Lord of Destruction is an awesome game. It has tons of monsters and baddies to slay. 
 but it will get old sometime while your playing it.
  
  Now Diablo 2s Expansion offers quite a few more stuff, but not alot. a new act is in the expansion 
 Act IV where you have to kill Baal, Lord of Destruction. there are also many little updates to 
 the game and new set weapons and armor. There is no good or evil in this game u can choose, its 
 all about the you klling the main bosses in the game but most of the quest is either about finding 
 someone/something or killing certain monsters. The new quests are very rewarding for you and your 
 loot. Also Tyrael the Arch Angel Dies at the end &gt;.&lt; that really pisses me off, he was the 
 coolest character in the game ( cooler than the demon bosses ) and he looked bomb. ( spoiler! ) 
 There are 2 new classes: Assassin and Druid. The Assassin Deals with Traps/Combat/ and somethin 
 else. The Druid deals with Summoning Creatures like wolves and ravens and bears, and he can transforme 
 into a bear or a werewolf that can attack and elemeantal skills such as ice and fire and wind ( 
 He can summon up hurricanes and small volocanoes stuff like that ) Sounds pretty good monsters 
 screams and when u kill them sound pretty good and can give you a little scare or chill. Since 
 the game has been out for years the price tag is very nice. you can get both the game and expansion 
 for 40 bucks or get the diablo game pack which has the game guide both diablo 2 games diablo 1 
 and other stuff.
  
  The Good:
  Awesome Gameplay, Controls are VERY simple, Big World, Bosses/Elites are fun to kill and drop great 
 stuff, Diffucultys are balanaced. ( Normal, Nightmare ( tough) and Hell ( hard ) and Hardcore ( 
 VERY hard, you can not solo this diffuclty.) Great looking characters, Balanced Classes, great 
 sound monsters make awesome sounds. Tons of armor and weapons and misc ( Rings, Necklaces, Runes, 
 Horadric Cube ) Very addicting, Good storyline
  
  The Bad:
  Graphics are outdated to todays current games, Some shortcuts Keys for skills wont work ( Press 
 a key but skill dont come, gotta do it manually, not that bad tho) Good Armor and Weapons ( Elite 
 Weapons/ Sets ) take awhile to get. 99 lvls is great but will take awhile to get there. No healing 
 class ( Priest, Cleric ) So you will have to fight with Potions that dont heal right away. Game 
 could be easily Hacked, in fact Open Battle. net is all about hacking.
  
  All in all its a pretty decent game i give it an 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 1, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Expansion sets are always a risky gamble, but this is a great expantion pack to the game. 
 So in Diabilo 2: Lord of Destruction it adds about 10-15 hours more gameplay to the game. The most 
 obvious new feature in the expansion is the new fifth act. It is set just after the point where 
 the game previously left off in the last game. After finishing the hunt for Diablo, players must 
 now follow his brother Baal, the titular The Lord of Destruction , to the frozen northern wilderness. 
 Unlike the original four acts, which featured well protected towns/ Villiges in the middle of monster 
 ridden wastelands. This new act conveys the feeling that the local humans are actually at war with 
 the demons and the devil. The gameplay is pretty much the same where you go around and click around 
 with your mouse to walk around and hack, slash and stab your enemies. In addition by far is the 
 inclusion of two new character classes. But there are also two new character classes. The first 
 I would like to mention is The Druid . He can summon spells like the souccouress but he is more 
 focused on nature related stuff. Also he has this power to transform in to a bear or wolf. The 
 second Character Class is The Assassin . She is more focused on stealth and hand-to-hand combat 
 with hands and close quarter weapons.
  
  Graphics: The graphics have not really been improved that much from the original game. But the graphics 
 are really quite colorful in the places that do have color. It's still the same good 2-D and 3-D 
 graphics put together.
  
  Sound: The sound is accually really good. In recent years, there have not been to many games with 
 great musical sound track. The sound track is geat and it really sets the mood. Also the voice 
 acting is also well done, even the roars and moans of the mosters can give you the chills or a 
 scare for that matter.
  
  Value: All in all, as fun as these new features are, they still don't quite enhance the game itself 
 enough for a truly fresh experience. But a good deal of the main mechanics have also been enhanced. 
 In addition to new types of wepons and equipment, there are now new magical effects available for 
 all equipment, yielding a whle bunch of new combinations. Also after a few hours the monsters you 
 are killing start to all look the same and it gets reallt dull after a while.
  So I have this game 7.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of Destruction expansion pack adds some good hours of gameplay to Diablo II, although 
 you'll have to finish all the previews four acts again to reach the added campaign. Now the player 
 can choose between two more classes: the Assassin and the Druid. In this add-on, you'll have new 
 recipes to the Horadric Cube, as well an amazing new concept of runes, which allows you to create 
 really powerful weapons. 
  
  Let's go to the storyline. The hero who killed Diablo has now a new objective: to kill the last 
 of the Prime Evils, Baal - The Lord of Destruction. This demon started his job in the Barbarian 
 Highlands and wants to corrupt the World Stone, which protects the natural world from the spawns 
 of hell.
  
  To kill Baal and prevent the corruption of the World Stone, you can play with your character from 
 the original Diablo II or create a new one. Both ways force you to play the entire game again before 
 you reach the fifth Act, added by the expansion. As I mentioned before, the add-on provides in 
 this new chapter several hours of gameplay that are really enjoying. There're places that the character 
 will need to siege, making its way through doors, walls and towers. There're also icy caves, montains 
 and even portals to hell.
  
  The new characters are as fun to play as the original ones from Diablo II. The Assassin is a skillful 
 woman that set traps and uses stealth abilities. The Druid casts elemental spells like the Sorceress, 
 but his particular skill is to shape-shift into wolf or bear. The Druid also uses some summoning 
 spells, and, unlike the Necromancer, his minions are animals and spirits.
  
  There're some new Horadric Cube combinations, but it would be spoiler if I tell them here. Also, 
 the new items are nice: now the player may hold some special artifacts, known as charms, in the 
 inventory to add useful permanent bonuses. There're the runes and jewels as well. Both are sockets 
 to put in an armor, weapon or shield. If you socket the runes in a certain order, you'll have the 
 so called 'Rune Words', and your item will receive a great list of powerful bonuses. The jewels 
 can be used in combinations with Horadric Cube and also to add some bonuses to the socketed item.
 
  
  The way to play is still the same: basically, just point-and-click to attack and right-click to 
 use a skill (a spell or a combat move) . The player can replay Diablo II and the Lord of Destruction 
 in higher difficulties, known as Nightmare and Hell. If you have the last released version (so 
 far v1.11b) , you'll encounter some hard enemies in the Hell difficulty, especially because they 
 have a lot of immunities. But this isn't any news in LoD, the problem is that the fifth Act at 
 "Hell" is incredibly hard. There're really some b*****es to beat, like the Frozen Horror and the 
 Blood Lord.
  
  Lord of Destruction is one of the best and most innovative expansion packs around. True you'll 
 have to play about 15 to 20 hours to see what's new in the campaign, but you can forgive this because 
 the abundance of new items and the two added characters. If you hated Diablo 2, then you'll continue 
 to hate the expanded Diablo II. If you liked it, this expansion will add even more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terry_Foxman
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  The expansion really adds a lot of new flavor to the already great original D2. It adds to the 
 game play and expands it ion many new and unforeseeable ways, additionally with each new patch 
 new add ons become available that is really in the spirit of MMORPG without the cost. Blizzard 
 is truly fanatical in that they still update the game today, years after its release, and this 
 the characteristic of tthe game. Today when other great game are out thousands upon thousands of 
 gamers still play this game try to achieve perfection and that is what is most telling about how 
 good this game is. The piece by piece:
  So the Graphics are just as good as the original allowing players to be captivated and drawn in
 
  
  The game play is even better, which is almost hard to believe consider how great he D2 was,. It 
 adds new characters and a whole new level as well as many new dynamics such as runes and runewords 
 completly restructuring the definition of elite items.
  
  The sound i again as great as the original
  
  and lastly the repaly value is intense this is 
 really a cheap MMORPG so you will be palying this over and over and over so enjoy.
  
  Overall this game defines a good RPG and if you ever want to consider yourself a gamer you have 
 to have this in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: losdog47
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 and Lord of Destruction are amazing!! The game has so much replay value its unbelievable. 
 With the expansion, 7 characters are available and you can focus their abilities any way u want!! 
 The game is easy to learn and hard to master.... with a simple click you unleash your havoc. Toughest 
 part of the game is figuring out what works best and what to focus on in terms of skills, stats, 
 and equipment...
  
  The acts have random map generation (for the most part, only a few exceptions) the still look the 
 same but the layout changes all the time. This helps keep things fresh. Single player does get 
 dull rather quick, most fun part of this game is playing with friends or vs other challengers via 
 Lan, direct IP, and Battle. net, Blizzards FREE online service. The difficulty increases by the 
 amount of players in the game, thus setting the difficulty up to the player. The online is VERY 
 ADDICTING!! I Preordered Diablo 2 and Lord of Destrucion and still play LoD occasionally 2 or 3 
 times a week!! I love the new things Blizzard throws in the game with its much appreciated patches. 
 Too bad they do them so sparingly. To go into specifics about the game would take pages and pages 
 my recommendation is to try the Diablo 2 demo. If it has you intrigued you can purchase the Battle 
 Chest which has both D2 and LoD for about 30 bucks...
  
  I know people are disappointed with the graphics but Lod has a higher resolution and gives a little 
 bit sharper image. The magic looks great and the characters actually show what they are wearing. 
 I think after playing and getting into the game you'll overlook this games one flaw and get hooked 
 just like the numerous diablo 2 players!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrior212
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  What can I say... this is simply the best game I've ever played, the game where I had the most 
 fun. I probably played this game for 1000 hours +, never gets boring. I just wish they'd go back 
 to the time when cow level gave a lot of experience it made the whole game lot more fun. I will 
 never forget the good moments I had in this game.
  
  Blizzard is such an amazing compagny. Every game they make is always a masterpiece, EVERY of them. 
 Still waiting for a D3, and then well when that day comes, I'll jump back in D3, think I'd pay 
 even 150$ to get that game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lannyboy334
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  In my latest issue of GameInformer I was pleasantly surprised to find that a game that I had just 
 started to play with one of my friends is in fact one of the best selling games of all time. In 
 1st is, unsurprisingly, Super Mario Bros. 3, 2nd is The Sims, also unsurprising, and in 3rd place 
 is Diablo 2. Not only did this game polish the refined gameplay of the 1st game, it expanded and 
 molded it into an experience that barely gave RPGers time to sleep. The classes have unique spells 
 that greatly differ from one to the other, with 3 different spell categories which are also very 
 differed in play and style. The graphics are improved, and in LoD you get a new resolution that 
 makes the game even more beautiful. The enemies and bosses are all very fun and difficult to play, 
 becoming even more differed in Nightmare and Hell modes. Last but not least, the armor and weapons 
 are engaging, and force you to kill even more monsters so that you can pick up their beautiful 
 rewards. The praise stops there though, and that is quite the list. In years to come, the graphics 
 do have their own style, true, but they are beginning to become outdated, though the extra years 
 have prevented them from going more into the archaic/stylish look like Diablo 1, WC2, and Starcraft. 
 The spells and abilities can be very underwhelming, some of the spells feeling like fillers to 
 the real goal (cough Armageddon, cough cough) . The game can also be very easily scammed out to. 
 If you have a CD drive you can basically create limitless amounts of gems, rare weaponry, and ultimately 
 loads of cash. This taints the Battle. net experience, because if you can find a bow wielding Amazon 
 who isn't a level 10 with 3 perfect gems in her bow at least multiple times in extended play, you 
 are one lucky punk. It is a great game, and a classic, but the whole experience can be rather flawed 
 at times by the grinding, cheating, and limited graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bit3889
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Diablo II LOD is a great game. It has a huge community, it is free to play, it has a very immersive 
 gameplay and a very deep and complex economy. So much time and consideration goes into making a 
 character, aquiring equipment and battling that it just makes for a great game. Even hard core 
 RPG fans will be enchanted by the simple gameplay yet deep character building. Yet the game is 
 easy enough for any random person to pick up and play. I strongly recommend this game to anyone 
 looking for a good action rpg but the multiplayer is much much better than the single player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pitcheon
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  The game was and is great, but in the year 2007, we need some better resolution options. If I could 
 play it at 1920 x 1200, I would be playing it right now. Everything else about the game is great. 
 Even when it first came out the graphics resolution was too limiting and a big disappointment. 
 If you look at all the other great diablo style games that are out, they ALL have graphics and 
 resolutions that are superior to diablo's. Gameplay is 1 thing, but if you don't have the graphics 
 to back up good gameplay, people are going to move on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emile144
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Possibly the best game ever created for any console. If this was 2000 when it came out it it would 
 have made no diference to me or many other fans. The graphics were pretty great for the time. Now 
 they're acceptable but could have been better if it had a higher resolution. The medieval sound 
 is amazing and the mouse based controls are fun, easy and simple. The gameplay is truly amazing 
 and its length is out of bounds, even without stepping onto battlenet. The sotry itseelf is also 
 amazing and the beautiful cinematics make it shine. This game was probably the basis for World 
 of Warcraft-another amazing game which however may have not been worthy enough of Diablo. Having 
 played both games Diablo is perfect but the shine of Diablo lacks in WoW. The joy of stepping right 
 in by yourself and killing DIablo your way, your style, killing him over and over again is satisfying 
 and great. Seeing the shiny green or yellow or gold names of items appear on your screen is pleasing 
 and getting what you want is exasperating. Open battlenet had quite some potential but was ruined 
 by the many hero editors which were released. Close battlenet just seems a waste of time, since 
 most people had already started their characters on single player mode. The expansion truly added 
 a lot to Diablo. The new ACT was beautiful and the runes brought a whole new side to the game. 
 The two new character classes were inspiring. The game as a whole is lengthy and pleasing. All 
 the acts have a steady interest on the payer although the second and third seem slightly too long 
 and boring. The many items guarantee hours of effort and work great alongside ht edeep chartacter 
 development. The skills greatly vary from character to character and are fascinating and plenty. 
 With 99 levels to go you have yourself a game to last you more than just a summer. For me DIablo 
 2 and LOD is more than a masterpiece. Its something that makes me want to use long words to describe 
 it like exasperasating, but even these words dont feel plenty enough. In my life i have played 
 hundreds of games, maybe thousands but nothing had that shine Diablo has. No matter what graphics 
 or super tri dimensional novelties develop in the future, Diablo still has the .. thing . You never 
 forget it's a game but you never forget to play it either. Rarely does it annoy you if ever, simply 
 because it does not allow you to hope for something. The random map generator for me is something 
 which should have been given more credit and should have been used in more recent games. Not knowing 
 what to expect or hope for, you'll be sucked into this game in such a devious way that for every 
 10 hours you play, you feel you've played for a short TV commercial break. Playing this game is 
 an honor and whoever made this game should be considered a near godly figure. Whether this game 
 deserves a 10 or a 2 because it doesnt really matter. Today DIablo reminds us what gaming is truly 
 about and that it does not soley depend on high resolutions or amazing graphics. As long as games 
 like Diablo progress in a speed of more than 10fps they are great. Truly the words describing this 
 ame are not long and boring but short and approachable: fun 'n' cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  The most Legandary RPG games ever, the 2nd best selling game in history.
  
  Officially today at the year 2007 Diablo 2 is the best selling game. starting a revolution in all 
 RPG games, this game started most of other RPG games, giving the other RPG companys great ideas 
 to make RPG games.
  
  But what does the expansion do. Well it adds another act to the game making the game hours longer, 
 adds 2 new characters, and allows you to finish the story, almost, but it also adds some plot twists 
 and lots of new sets, uniques, and items. New NPC's and monsters. Allowing you to play this game 
 for much longer and allowing you to keep this game for years to come.
  
  This game is recommened to all RPG players who want to see how their favorite RPG's got their ideas 
 and a legendary game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ad-2cool4u
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 Lord of Destruction is one of the greatest RPG's to date. Even at the year 2007 I'm still 
 addicted to it. I've owned it for 5 years now, and I've made almost all of the character classes 
 go all the way through once, at the least, without hax's (It is very easy to get hax's from other 
 players online, but I was true to myself and decided to sell them or give them away. If you dont 
 know what a Hax is, here we go. A hax is basically a mod, but it looks normal. It has lots of attributes 
 that no game creater would put in. Like Defence increased by 300. That is a hell of a lot of defence. 
 You wont get killed no matter what!) .
  
  Diablo 2 LOD had 5 areas to explore, and in this game (the expansion) you get to kill all of the 
 Prime Evils. The Prime Evils are Diablo, and his 2 brothers Mafisto and Bail. In the original Diablo 
 2 you only got to kill Diablo and Mafisto. Being able to kill the Lord of Destruction (Bail) is 
 a great add on to the expansion. It adds a lot more hours to the game, and it feels right. If you 
 just kill 2 of the Prime Evils, then its like; What? Theres still one out there... shouldnt I kill 
 him too? Just to be safe? All in all: Great story, Awesome boss battles, And a ton of places to 
 explore.
  
  Now the online is a totaly different story. If you play online be prepared for alot of things that 
 are just plain weird. I'll let you find out for yourself, but I'll tell you one thing. If you are 
 going to use Hax's, DO NOT TAKE THEM FROM SOMEONE YOU DO NOT KNOW!!!!! My friend did that, and 
 his whole screen went red, he could move his guy, and then his entire computer crashed. Hard drive 
 and all. He had to get a hole new computer. So if your gonna get Hax's, BE PREPARED FOR THE RESULTS.
 
  
  So to rap thing up, I would say that Diablo 2 LOD is a great game, has a great story, and great 
 online. So I guess I'll see you there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efy2crw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  The best online multiplayer experience ive ever had! played it for about 3 years, loved every minute. 
 This expansion is a must have. Online it is unequalled as far as im concerned, it takes minutes 
 to learn and years to master. Its interesting, challenging, great fun, and has very high re-playability. 
 Quality. I saw Diablo 2 and LOD expansion in a bargain bin the other day, was tempted to start 
 all over again!! I cant believe Gamespot has rated it so low, i dont think they have really appreciated 
 the amazing online play of this game, probably because of the reviewers deadline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Locke11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 20, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I think that it was a fun on going game and that it provided quality entertainment. hjfjhfvgd fugfhd 
 fhsdgfv fhds hfd hdfgdsn dhfb hg v gvfg g cf vb vg v bhb h g bgh g v b vg vg vg b g g yg gf g vgh 
 fg gh jh gh g gh gh gh gh g hg hg b gbvb jnbfdkgvfdkjgzfd ags fg fdvbfd fbgfjf b b gbf dnfd hbggbn 
 nbghbgf bn ng bgn hbn gfbgfb gf bj hmhvdb fbgbg bfg b bgnb hgbfgn gn gsbfghng bgfs bn gfhnh dgbfb 
 gfn gfdb gfbnsm hf mh jj gkj lk l;; n gvshg hfd n ghnh h hfnklgghfgh ghkhmh bjgf bg bkgfn nmg bvgj 
 gjgh jg ng gfyg ghgh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  When I first bought Diablo 2 upon release I thought it was a gift from God.. It had everything 
 that made the first game excellent and improved on the formula.. but as time went on.. I played 
 and played eventually getting my little Sorc up to level 87 in single player. I placed every skill 
 point I had into my frozen skills.. because at the time all those immune to cold monsters.. were 
 NOT immune.. Frozen orb would rip through those immune baddies like they weren't even there.. but 
 alas my joy ended when 1.08 patch came out effectually nerfing my sorc. I was so pissed I literally 
 refused to play the game for years. I am guess I wasn't the only one to do this since I have talked 
 to others and they had similar experiences.. times they decided screw this game and left for long 
 periods.. (if you wish try a sorc without patching your LOD game and focus on ice)
  
  But as time went on.. I found myself coming back for more Diablo 2.. but by then the game had changed.. 
 patch 1.10 was out and had these weird chain skills thing that made leveling up a sorc hard.. no 
 longer could I just focus on one skill and become godly.. but I had to split my time.. so I worked 
 up another sorc.. but by the time I hit nightmare difficulty my sorc was getting her butt handed 
 to her.. I got frustrated again and dropped the game.. I am back now.. for some more beatings now 
 with version 1.11 Hopefully, I can become more dedicated to the game and not drop it when I run 
 into snags..
  
  Okay on with what matters if you can call it that.. hell I gave the game a perfect 10.. considering 
 what it was like back then.
  
  hmm 3D card NOT required.. kick butt I could play it without having to buy a voodoo card! YESS! 
 This made my heart rate go up when I realized this simple fact.. At the time my System Shock 2 
 game was still sitting on a shelf waiting.. waiting ... and waiting... Yes some memorable times 
 I did have with Diablo 2.. LAN parties.. meeting each other online and playing over the net.. etc.. 
 I am still suprised at how many people still play this overly addictive game.. we try to quit.. 
 yet somehow we find ourselves coming back for yet more.. even while graphically improved games 
 like Sacred and Titan Quest are made.. Even while Silverfall is just days away! If your a newcomer 
 to Diablo 2.. you may never experience the joys that many of us old players had.. and how overly 
 infuriated the game caused us to become.. but you may MAY find an addiction here not had in other 
 hack/slash RPGs.. (yes this is a copy of my D2 review sue me!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daytona_178
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a truly fantastic RPG, whether you are playing on Battle. net or if you are playing just 
 the offline campaign. For anyone who owns Diablo 2 this game is a must buy, mainly because of 2 
 new features....... a new and exiting act to conquer and also 2 new characters to play as! Unlike 
 many expansion packs that have been released this one adds content that doesnt change your original 
 gaming experience that you have grown to love. If you are currently playing this game and would 
 like a place to request help or trade, then join the 'Diablo 2 Lord of Destruction Union'. Also 
 if you found my review helpful please recommend me. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darussell1958
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 6, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Most expansion packs tend to focus on extending the gameplay of a game without tinkering too much 
 with the actual game itself. Not so in Lord of Destruction.
  
  The most noticeable additions to LOD are the creation of two new character classes, the assassin 
 and the druid, which in itself make replaying the game's original levels worthwhile. Surprisingly, 
 Blizzard managed to create characters that stand out from the original classes in both graphics 
 and tactical advantage, each equipped with 30 unique skills and spells. The assassin is a master 
 of martial arts, which allows her to do increasingly deadly damage through charge-up attacks and 
 finishing moves, deadly traps ranging from thrown fire bombs to complex proximity-triggered sentries, 
 and the powerful shadow disciplines, a kind of psychic magic which modifies her attributes. The 
 assassin is also the only class that can use the powerful and quick claw-class weapon. The druid 
 plays a bit like the necromancer with the ability to call creatures to his side, like ravens, grizzlies 
 or deadly plants. He also can manipulate the elements, calling forth volcanoes, twisters or even 
 hurricanes. My favorite druid skill is his ability to temporarily shape shift into a werewolf or 
 werebear, creatures with increased speed, agility and fighting prowess. The drawback with using 
 the new character classes is that you will need to start the game, multiplayer or single player, 
 fresh and fight your way through to vanquishing Diablo to get to the new levels. But the uniqueness 
 of the new characters makes it a fun ride. If you decide to skip the replay and stick with your 
 old characters you just need to convert them -- a one-time, one-way process. The game still has 
 lots of new things to play with even without the use of the new classes. Thousands of new class-specific 
 weapons, armor and magic items are included in the game as well as new item sets and new unique 
 items. The expansion adds rune words and jewels to the mix as well, making it easier to create 
 or modify items. There are also charms, items which when held in your backpack grant magical enhancements, 
 and ethereal weapons and armor, which are imbued with magical properties but are irreparable. Lord 
 of Destruction features a lot of minor changes that make gameplay more fun. Now you can heal and 
 equip your hirelings, and even take them to new Acts. The game allows you to set up two sets of 
 weapons/armor configurations and hotkey switch between them. LOD also features a larger character 
 stash chest, eight new skill hotkeys, repair all commands, new automap features and a fill tome 
 command. The biggest feature, of course, is the new Act, a fantastic addition set in the Barbarian 
 Highlands and featuring six new quests. Not only does the new Act contain eye-catching glacier 
 graphics, it also includes some of the hardest creatures, 50 new classes and seven new bosses to 
 be exact, and the most difficult quests in the game.
  
  Multiplayer
  As in the original Diablo II, you can play single or multiplayer, but the added unique items and 
 increased difficulty make multiplayer a near must. Unfortunately the expansion doesn't include 
 any changes to Blizzard's multiplayer Battle. net.
  
  Graphics
  Although the graphics haven't really been changed in the game, the expansion does now allow you 
 to play in 800x600 mode, which gives a wider view and seems to make the graphics less pixilated. 
 Of course you can't forget the cinematic scenes for the new act, which remain at Blizzard's high 
 standard.
  
  System Requirements
  Windows 2000, 98 or 95 PC, Pentium 233, 64MB of RAM, a 4X CD-ROM drive, the multiplayer installation 
 of Diablo II, an additional 800MB on your hard drive, and a 28.8 modem or better and internet connection 
 for Battle. net play.
  
  Bottom Line
  It may cost a bundle at $30, but Diablo II: Lord of Destruction is worth the price. The expansion 
 is so packed with new features, creatures, classes and items that you could mistake it for a new 
 game. And with at least an additional 10 hours of play, the expansion is definitely worth the price. 
 The best game of last year may feature the best expansion of this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgmx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY 
 VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY 
 VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY 
 VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY 
 VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY 
 VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY vVERY 
 VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY great 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icehound
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I do have to admit that I have a slight advantage when writing this little piece. Granted, this 
 expansion is several years old, but I do have the distinct pleasure of being one of the few outside 
 Beta-testers for this game. From my Day One (which would make it about Day -90 for many other people) , 
 I knew this would bring new dimensions to this powerhouse game. Not only were the two additional 
 classes well designed, but their skill paths actually made it more like 4 different classes instead. 
 Adding a new level with even harder monsters to do battle doesn't make the leveling up with your 
 character feel like weak or drawn out.
  
  Diablo II Lord of Destruction is an expansion pack that does not let you down with muddled gameplay 
 and ineffective character and monster design. It would have been nice if this were part of the 
 original game, but then again, Blizzard has a penchant for not releasing everything out at once. 
 This adds to the mystique and interest, not only with Diablo, but with just about any Blizzard 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calwilliamson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 LOD is great because every different character has special items which can only be used 
 by them (e. g. the druid has hawk helms and other types of helmet that i couldn`t be f***ed to write 
 down) but the array of weapons and armour is just incredible you get leather, hard leather, chainmail, 
 breat plate, splint and i forgot the rest.
  
  anyway back to the task at hand, writing this review because that is the most imporant thing, right 
 after completing the game of life (which sounds f***ing crazy, i know but i dont care)
  
  right then back to the review, ive personally played diablo 2 LOD for over 3 years and its one 
 one the very select few that i find simply amazing, because as ive already mentioned it has a very 
 wide variety of different weapons, armour and potions (well not really potions) but the everything 
 else is great. i personally have 5 level 99 barbarians *BOAST* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musti_44
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  Lord of Destruction had the difficult task of trying to improve on an already superb game alone. 
 Diablo II is one of the most addicting and immersive games I've ever played or owned. It is so 
 engaging that you will miss many important social functions which are a normal part of life. This 
 game kept me from the outside world for about two years, no exaggeration. The new charecters are 
 quite different from one another and each have their own style of fighting weather it be hand to 
 hand or spell casting. Just like in the original game, it suits all types of players in the way 
 they play their This is definately a must have if you have Diablo II. The game really is incomplete 
 without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCabl3Guy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 26, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Since you have an abundance of time may I suggest Diablo 2? Its a video game that I have been playing 
 for around 6 years coming and going. its a 2D/3D Role Playiing Game in which you choose one of 
 5 characters to play. Characters include, Paladins (Healing skills and magical auras that effect 
 your party along with interesting combat skills) , Barbarians who serve as the grunts but also serve 
 as boosters contributing health, defense and add to your skills, Necromancers who command forces 
 of evil, you can raise dead monsters and bring them your side, as well as skellys. (dead monsters 
 include zombies) Druids who have shapeshifting ability and can transform into wolves or bears. 
 They also have summoning capability from various wolves and creatures. Assasins who use traps and 
 other tortures to defeat the forces of evil. Amazons who wield powerful Javelins and Bows. they 
 also receive help from Valkyries who aid you. And Sorceress who acquire magic as they gain levels. 
 Magical skills fall from the 3 elements of Lightning, Fire and Cold. All characters provide a varied 
 mix to the game and make it interesting. The basic premise is point &gt; click &gt; shoot/hit till 
 monster dies. Sounds boring but its pretty addictive especially when you acquire higher level items 
 and are able to devastate masses of monsters in one or two fell swoops. If you die you must retrieve 
 your corpse to get back your gear. If you want to get really crazy their is hardcore mode where 
 you die once and your character is dead for good. I played hardcore for a while over the internet 
 and managed to get to level 75 out of 99 till my character expired from lack of play. The game 
 is real time as opposed to turn based and is infinitely replayable. It is free online and only 
 costs about $19.95 total. Any computer less than 7 years old can run this game. Sorry that sounds 
 like a really cheesy ad but its true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BearWonderer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  This Game Could have been better for the players of Diablo II. It's hard to see the difference with 
 the Diablo series with respect to it. The Only aim in this game is to finish it, know the story and 
 play online.
  
  DIFFICULTY ADVANCEMENT
  Now there's new challenges that awaits.
  
  NEW ITEMS
  Now, new items to find, spend more time to play
  
  NEW DISCOVERIES
  New Trills 
 New Excitement
  
  NEW PATCHES
  This one makes up the damages that this game has. I convince people to keep on playing
  
  MOST 
 OF ALL
  Play Online!!!, Friends from the past, new heroes of today. Combat Fighting! test your might then 
 see who is the last man standing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TroutFuzTV
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the greatest expansion ever released to my knowledge. You have to play it to realize 
 it.
  
  The game itself is great. It included great new aditions. There are now charms that allow certain 
 skills that are or upgrades allowed just by carrying them. The class based items were also an exelent 
 addition. While bringing out the best in each of the chararcters it allowed for greater class diversity 
 and better overall personilization. The two new classes also allow for greater diversity and longer 
 gameplay. The Druid and the assasin both have exelent skills and they are well worth the buy. The 
 greatest achievment of the Blizzard team when creating the expansion however was the Act V included. 
 This was by far the greatest addition to the Diablo II game. It was also the best act overall both 
 in story and the creatures. It allows for higher level characters to be challenged greater and 
 the new weapon classes allow greater fighting to take place between the forces of Hell and the 
 character you are playing. Although Baal is easier to kill than Diablo is it still adds to the 
 game greatly. The game has great gameplay just as the original and deserves recognition. If you 
 own D2 get this game expansion it is worth the twenty- ten bucks that it costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerisol
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  even though this game is pretty old now and has very poor graphics compared to todays games i still 
 enjoy playing it every now and then which in my opinion makes it a great game.
  after choosing a character and a character name, you get to hack and slash your way through 5 acts, 
 completing missions given to you by the townsfolk while you level up your character, upgrade your 
 armor and weapons, and learn and upgrade your choice of 30 skills (per character) . this game has 
 not so good graphics, pretty good sound and even after you beat it you can try again on a whole 
 new difficulty, make an account on battle. net and play with other people world wide, or just try 
 a new character class.
  i would recommend this game to anyone that likes good RPG's and cares more about it being a good 
 game than its graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxpharaonxx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Stunning Additions to the original game makes Diablo II Lord Of Destruction one of the best expansion 
 sets to the date.. A whole new long act.. two more characters with brand new skills... loads of new 
 item types.. Enhancements in the gameplay and graphics.... and a beautiful soundtrack for Act V... Who 
 needs more??
  I liked the Assasin and the Druid very much... and their skills were a great effort from Blizzard 
 to make sure we enjoy playing with the Druid and the Assasin... Also the new Graphics enhancements 
 lifted the game to new standards... i liked runes and runewords  
 items is a great idea indeed...
  To sum up.. The best expansion this year guys... and you should try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Simple point &amp; click gameplay. The game lets you choose from several differant classes, 
 I have 2 characters, one a paladin, &amp; the other a sorceress. There are others like Druids, 
 Necromancers, Amazons, Barbarians &amp; Assassins, all of which of a very unique skill sets, personally 
 playing this game 6 years after it was released, I was awe shocked, So much armor &amp; weapons 
 it'll put most of todays RPG's to shame. Overall, the gameplay Is somewhat repetetive, but it's 
 more about seeing what your new spells do or you new weapon can do... 8/10
  
  Graphics: Again, going back to a 6 year old game, I was almost expecting Rune Scape graphics (I 
 admit, I have not been gaming for that long) . But I was acctually impressed, &amp; I realised the 
 worst graphics are, the more you don't notice things... Like character animations are pretty dang 
 bad, but the not really noticable, it's no were near as bothering as whatching you Oblivion character 
 move around in 3D. Same with now, lypsincing with chacters in games now is important.. We should 
 be lucky with what we got, lol. The graphics are pretty good for a old game, lots of the game is 
 filled with artwork that you can't walk into, but it fits in nicley. 8/10
  
  Sound: To be honest, this game gots some of the most memerable music I have ever heard, one I always 
 think about is this bluesy song that plays in the first act, it's definatly not the kind of music 
 you'de expect to hear in a RPG... Specially a midevil RPG. I love lots of the games music. The 
 are some bad parts though, but my only complaints are the repetetivness of casing spells &amp; 
 swinging swords... I found no problems with the voice acting though.... 9/10
  
  Value: I find this game shockingley addictive, &amp; in single player, shockingly long. On average 
 it took me about 5-8 hours a act, overall, 25-40 hours &amp; I found it neat that once you beat 
 the single player on normal, they'de through you into Nightmare with the same character you beat 
 normal with (same lv, same spells, same gear, everything) It was almost like you continue the game, 
 even though it's all the same, you get new &amp; better loot. Multiplayer can be a differant story, 
 often, you'll find high lv guys 'rushing' there pals, this can take a properly set group between 
 like 15-20 minutes an act. it's crazy. Plus it's good to try out several classes, I personally 
 only played 2, &amp; soon I wanna try a Amazon out. 10/10
  
  Tilt: I think this game is very addictive, I also noticed Blizzard used alot of borrow for Diablo 
 to make World of Warcraft, there are lots of similaraties. I've only had this game for about 2 
 weeks &amp; I'v already had some timeless moments, even just before writing this review me &amp; 
 my uncle were playing through the Single player with new characters, for 10 hours, we made it half 
 way through act 2 then quit... Overall I'd recommend this game to anyone that likes RPG's, or even 
 hack-n-slah adventure games... 10/10
  
  I found the difficulty, well pretty difficult, You'll definatly die a few times, &amp; your almost 
 expected to die during boss fights... &amp; the problem with playing online is that sometime when 
 you make in far enough in the game, your not high enough lv... With my first character, my paladin 
 was in Act 3, it was only lv 16, &amp; reccommendedly, you should be there at the lowest lv 22. 
 /Hard
  
  Paladin: Lv 62, time spend estimated 40 hours online.
  Paladin: Lv 51, time spend estimated 35 hours offline.
  Sorceress: Lv 19, time spent estimated 
 10 hours online.
  /40-100 Hours
  
  To be honest it took me a while to figure out everything, I think I got everything firgured out 
 now, but it took me several days to learn it all. Most of it isent nessisary, but It's good stuff 
 to know, but overall, the point it click gamepley was pretty pickup &amp; play /30-60 Minutes
 
  
  Rant: There are some bad things about this game I need to get off my chest. This game is way to 
 easy to lv up in online, single player your doom to lv up about twice an hour, online you can lv 
 up like 10 times an hour, all you really need to do is follow some high lv guy while he obliterates 
 things &amp; You'll lv in litterally no time, the only talent it takes is to follow the guy around. 
 Also, your character is also very armor reliant, &amp; since you lv so quick you stuff will turn 
 to trah in hours, yesterday I had lv 30 stuff that kicked @$5 yesterday, it 71cks balls today. 
 Also. money in the game is pretty much worthless, when people trade online, money is nothing, money 
 is a joke, because it's so easy to obtain. &amp; the main reason it's worthless is because all 
 the good armor &amp; weapons you have to find, &amp; you lose a huge percentage of you money when 
 you die, I think it's around 20%. Also even though it's a very multiplayer reliant game, somethings 
 feel very single player, like some lvs will have tunnels just the size so one person can walk through 
 at a time, th first player has no were to run, &amp; the 2nd player cant attack. Also, there are 
 only one version of rares, you'de think mabye they drop 2 or more so your party wouldent have to 
 fight over it all. Overall, even though it feels like it has some major unfinished mistakes, It's 
 still a great game. 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WestleyViau
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  In my review of Diablo II: Lord of Destruction i'll only be reviewing the online play since thats 
 whats the game really is.
  
  -Gameplay: Two more classes, two times the fun, even tho the druid isn't that great his idea and 
 his spells are awsome. But what Lod really add's are the new runewords and items to find. You can 
 make some of the best items by just putting in some runes into a piece of armor. Also the channels 
 are great for trading because they got various channels that are specific for trading in your realm 
 which is a easy and quick way to get what you're looking for. And now my favourite add to the game, 
 Uber trist since they've added recent patches and addons to the online play. It's where you pretty 
 much spend a long time searching for the -Sound: The original sound track for d2 is a good one 
 but the added audio and backround music for act 5 is a nice tune to smite those demons to and at 
 the same time stays in your head but doesn't get tiresome. -Graphics: There isn't much to add about 
 the 2d graphics from d2, other than the animations of the assassin and druid, but i think that 
 d2 wouldn't be d2 without being 2d because the two were meant for eachother d2 = 2d. But seriously 
 the action is better since its in 2d because you can have more actions and things going on at the 
 same time, and you still know whats going on and what you're doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephirothrulez9
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 18, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: A lot of great atdditions to the original Diablo 2. Awsome new rune feature which adds 
 a whole new aspect to online play. A whole lot new uniques/ sets/ and the two new classes arent 
 the best classes ( my personal preference ) but they are still cool to experiment.
  
  Graphics: even though there isnt any real change from diablo 2 to the expansion, it still is pretty 
 averge.
  
  Sound: Sound is pretty up to par too
  
  Side notes: If you are gonna get this game, i highly reccrommend that you find a website to help
 
  
  Gameplay 9
  grpahics 7
  sound and value 8
  tilt 9
  
  this game is really good... get the battlechest!!! ( if there is one ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellyBEANz1
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II was quite a game, in its time, however it is now considered obsolete. The horrendous 
 community is massly (however not solely) to blame for its downfall. It seems as though the only 
 thing players of this game have on their minds is how can I screw over this guy that I am trading 
 with, so that I may come off with something better. A solid item pricing for player to player trades 
 is nowhere to be found, especially when you are looking for the item (at which point the price 
 of it is unbelievably high as compared to what it normally is) . Scammers can be found at every 
 corner, and due to the child filled player community, no one in the game can be trusted with your 
 items.
  
  Another mass issue is the lag behind this game. The age of the servers seems to be a likely cause, 
 however no one seems to be really sure (most people simply say Blizzard Sucks! and continue to 
 play the game. Lag can be completely disgusting at times, making it very near impossible to play 
 hardcore. I can honestly say that out of the thousands of times I have created/joined a game in 
 Diablo II I have not once been in a game without a lag problem.
  
  On top of all the annoying issues with the game, there is the basics that are supposed to make 
 up for such problems, but somehow fall short:
  Terrible Graphics
  Annoying Repetitive Gameplay
  Constantly Complaining members
  Hackers/Scammers
  Constant 
 Server Drops
  
  Despite its flaws, this game somehow becomes like crack to a mass majority of its members. Many, 
 if not most, of the members who play this game play anywhere from 5- 14 hours daily. Some side 
 effects of that amount of playing time are:
  Loss of Sleep
  Loss of Friends
  Decline in Academic Achievement
  Possible Demotion at work (or worse)
  Cranky Attitude due 
 to lack of sleep
  Back Problems
  Unhealthy Eating Habits
  Many Many More.
  
  For those of you interested in this game, I will give you a suggestion from one kind friend to 
 another:
  Don't even bother.
  
  If you are at the store later and you feel yourself having the urge to pick this game up, just 
 put it back and leave the store. It simply is not worth your money, time, or life. Try picking 
 a new sport instead, trust me you will thank me later. Well in any case, good luck and enjoy your 
 life because time goes by fast and this game makes it go by faster.
  
  PS: It's also near impossible to quit, due to account expiration dates, friends etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alkku94
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  Blizzard is know about WoW and Diablo 2 and now Expansion is here. There aren`t much new things. 
 One thing in game is new that there is New classes Druid and Assassin. This brings more player 
 for a Battle. net and Blizzard. Game is Classic and have got many good things.
  We already have many games wehere we must get lvl ups and things, but this is G&ouml;&ouml;&ouml; d. 
 I mean Great. So i hope we really get Diablo 3 in 2007.
  Good:
  - Many Character Classes
  - Many Skills
  - You can play with few friends or with 1 friend in the IP Game and do quests.
 
  
  90/100p. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth01
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The good: A brand new Act; two new characters; higher resolution; more of everything.
  
  The bad: Lag hasnt been fixed; graphics still look dated.
  
  Blizzard has supported Diablo 
 II from the very beginning with patches and updates, but with an unfinished story and immense popularity, 
 it was only a matter of time before some kind of expansion pack was released. Two days before the 
 one-year anniversary of Diablo II, Lord of Destruction came out and although it isnt the greatest 
 expansion pack ever, the additions are well worth the money for those that enjoyed themselves with 
 Diablo II and want to do it again.
  
  The best addition that LoD makes to the Diablo universe is the brand new Act, which features six 
 new quests. It seems that with the chaos surround Diablos death Baal was able to regain his strength 
 and lay siege to the Barbarian Highlands. The six quests will stop that siege, fix some problems 
 among the Barbarians and ultimately place you in battle with Baal. The new Act is most enjoyable 
 one out of all the others in the game featuring some interesting premises and rewarding gifts. 
 Act five is also accessible to anyone that has beaten the forth Act, so even if youve been playing 
 from the very start and have high end characters, youll still have the opportunity to move on 
 in the story.
  
  On the other hand, for those that want to start from the very beginning again will find two nice 
 new additions; These being the Assassin and the Druid as both brand new playable characters. Even 
 though Diablo II covered all its bases with playable characters, the Assassin and Druid fit nicely 
 into list and are unique enough to be taken out for a spin.
  
  The Assassin mainly uses Martial Arts and Traps to take out her foes. The Martial Arts skills work 
 the best when they chained together causing a slew of different effects and the trap skills are 
 simply placed on the ground waiting for enemies to come neither. Of course, the Assassin cant 
 actually perform stealth kills, but her Shadow Disciplines improve the Assassin other skills such 
 causing more poison damage or making her hard to see. The Druid uses a combination of summoning 
 creatures and spell casting to deal with his problems. The spells work much like the Sorceress 
 do, but the summoning skills dont require bodies as the necromancer does. The Druid also has the 
 ability to shape shift into both a Werebear and a Werewolf for up close and personal combat.
  
  Through the course of the game, a couple of minor tweaks and additions to the gameplay will 
 become apparent. A new mini-map option has been added, that allows a smaller version of the map 
 to appear in the top left corner of the screen. The map isnt as detailed, but for those that didnt 
 enjoy the full screen version, might want to try the mini-map. New weapons and items have been 
 added to the already plentiful arsenal. Some the more important ones are: sixteen new set items, 
 character specific items, items that are only found in the Hell difficulty and items that cannot 
 be repaired, but always have magical abilities. Apart from that and some balancing and tweaking, 
 the stash and has also been increased in storage capacity.
  
  The best tweak in game is easily the new and improved hireling system. Hirelings can now be taken 
 through Acts and difficulties; they also increase level along with you. They can also be given 
 potions in battle and use weapons and armour. These additions make Hireling much more useful especially 
 to characters that cant take much damage, such the Sorceress. The new Hireling system can be used 
 both online and off, and its effectiveness is apparent in both modes. Although hirelings cant 
 replace human players, they are good for at least distracting the enemy and sometimes even taking 
 them out.
  
  For the most part the visuals and sound havent changed much since Diablo II. A higher resolution 
 has been added, which makes everything look better and is easier on the eyes. The new characters 
 and areas all look nice compared to the old ones, but they are still dated. The sound is in status 
 quo adding only whats needed for the new Act and enemies, once again quality over quantity.
  
  Diablo II Lord of Destruction isnt the greatest expansion pack, but adds enough to be worth 
 the wait and money. The new Act breaths fresh life into the game and the two new characters add 
 more replayability, while all of the tweaks make the experience that much more enjoyable. Lord 
 of Destruction doesnt add a whole new layer of gameplay, but finishes what its predecessor started 
 and it will satisfy anyone who is still playing one of the greatest hack-and-slash RPGs ever created. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mizrach
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2: Lord of Destruction takes an already amazing game and makes it almost flawless. The two 
 areas in which Diablo 2 was lacking somewhat was graphics and value. This expansion gives both 
 those areas a boost.
  
  First is the graphics. While it doesn't change the graphics engine, it adds a boost from 640x480 
 resolution to 800x600. This makes the game look much better and lets you see much more on screen.
 
  
  Next is the value. This expansion adds an incredible amount of value. It adds two more classes 
 to the game. The assassin and the druid. It adds another Act, bringing the total to 5. It adds 
 an enormous amount of new unique and set items, as well as runes and jewels that can be socketed 
 in gear. The amount of these and the rarity of them, will keep you hunting for that insanely powerful 
 item for years to come.
  
  Other than what i mentioned above, this expansion also has many other small additions such as twice 
 the bank storage space and customizable henchmen.
  
  Overall, this expansion is amazing and a must buy if you own the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 2:33 pm PT
Review:  LoD is a hack-and-slash game that quickly gets very repetitive. Oh, yes, there are a great many 
 spells, skills, weapons, amulets and suits of armor to choose from, and many kinds of enemies to 
 kill with all that stuff, but what the game boils down to beneath this shiny exterior is sprinting 
 across monotonous landscapes and monotonously slaughtering monotonous hordes of enemies. Very rarely 
 is any thinking required, just point-and-click, point-and-click. On top of that, there is no character 
 development or subplots to speak of. Making choices that have consequences? A huge world to explore? 
 Characters that have more than two dimensions to them? Forget it. You will go where the game developers 
 want you to go and do what they want you to do. You can complete the quests in whatever order you 
 like, but that's the only freedom you'll have. Pretty boring, if you ask me. If you are looking 
 for an action game set in a fantasy world, I'd recommend Nox: you will be as unfree as in LoD, 
 but at least it's more quick-paced, amusing and aesthetically pleasing.
  P. S. The movies are awesome, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AILD666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  This is a highly addictive game. Might not have the best graphics in the world, But the graphics 
 are fine enough for me. The game play is awsome, you walk around killing demons, even though that 
 sounds boring it is not. You get a selection of characters to chose from, Druid, Sorcerer, Paladin, 
 Barbarian, Assasain, And a Amazon. With all of those characters they all come with a combination 
 of spells that you can choose from. Even if you do not like these sort of Role Playing Games, i 
 recomend that you buy this. It is on sale At $30-$40, it comes with Daiblo 1, Diablo 2 and the 
 Diablo 2 Lord Of Destruction Expansion Disk. So it is deffenitly worth it for that price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soad5170
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  This is a highly addictive game. Might not have the best graphics in the world, But the graphics 
 are fine enough for me. The game play is awsome, you walk around killing demons, even though that 
 sounds boring it is not. You get a selection of characters to chose from, Druid, Sorcerer, Paladin, 
 Barbarian, Assasain, And a Amazon. With all of those characters they all come with a combination 
 of spells that you can choose from. Even if you do not like these sort of Role Playing Games, i 
 recomend that you buy this. It is on sale At $30-$40, it comes with Daiblo 1, Diablo 2 and the 
 Diablo 2 Lord Of Destruction Expansion Disk. So it is deffenitly worth it for that price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Shake123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  I recently bought Diablo 2: Lord of Destruction (I know, its been out since 2001) . I have had 
 the regular Diablo 2 for about 5 months now, and it was one of the most addicting games I owned 
 up to date. Then, I decided to go out and buy LOD. WOW! Just WOW! It tops everything about Diablo 
 2 imaginable! To start, gameplay. The game has the original 4 acts from Diablo 2 plus, a new 5th 
 act consisting of 6 new quests. Basically, The 3rd of the Prime Evils: Baal has escaped from you. 
 He made his way to the Arreat Summit, in search of The Worldstone. Your job is to kill him (go 
 figure) . The 5th Act has tons of completely new monsters! And new scenery. Also, your stash can 
 hold a lot ore items this time around. There are also two new races in the game: The Druid, and 
 The Assassin. They are each very unique in their own way. The Druid can summon wolves to fight 
 with him, and even turn into a wolf or a bear! The assassin can set traps that will kill an enemy. 
 Because the game is playable on Battle. net, you will be able to play along side of up to seven 
 friends in one party. This makes it very hard to want to even touch the single player campaign, 
 because you can play the exact same game with other people with you. Next, visuals. The game has 
 mainly the same look as Diablo 2. But, it features a screen resolution of 800 x 600; this cleans 
 up the graphics a ton! The game looks very crisp, and clear. Also, the 800 x 600 makes for a better 
 tactical situation, because you will see enemies coming from further away. If you do not like the 
 800 x 600 resolution, you can change it back to its default. Finally, sound. LOD features amazing 
 sound. From casting spells, to killing demons, the sound is crisp and versatile.
  
  All in all Diablo 2 LOD is a fantastic game! With HIGHLY ADDICTIVE gameplay and stunning visuals, 
 it is a must have! I hope to see you on Battle. net. (Hardcore Ladder) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sskott
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  One of the best online games ever to be created. Highly addictive. There is just something about 
 Diablo II that reeled everyone in and kept them playing for an extended period of time. At this 
 point in time (Nov 06) the game is very outdated, especially the graphics. However it is still 
 a good game. If a company could just take todays technology and create something along the lines 
 of a Diablo III. I'm almost positive it would be the best selling game of all time. Hopefully hellgate 
 London is online, because if it isn't... I'll be disappointed once again (like when guild wars 
 claimed to be the next diablo, it wasn't even close) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarvos7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  Diablo II: Lord of Destruction
  
  An interesting game. Highly addictive and has A LOT of replay values.
  
  Gameplay 9/10: Yes, 
 it's controls are awesome but somewhat complex but once you got every key on your keyboard it's 
 a piece of cake. ALso the point and click way to move makes it easier to focus on your keyboard 
 when you are in battle.
  
  Graphics 7/10: The graphics are way outdated. Even in its own time. When I saw it I thought it 
 wasn't going to be good because of the graphics but I was wrong. Sound 10/10: Beautiful sound for 
 a ugly looking game. This sound really help players get froget about the bad graphic in this game. 
 Each character had a different voice and all the demons had different souds depending on what situation 
 they were in.
  
  Value 9/10: Not exactly sure what valu means but I guess it is the core of the game and how much 
 it is worth to the player. This game's high addiction has made it last this long.
  
  Tilt 9/10: I guess tilt is the overall score for this game.
  
  A few flaws here and there but 
 this game is a good game for you untill you find something better but that wouldn't be for a long 
 time because you would be to busy playing this game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDarkpuppetx
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty good game with a 3D like over head camera which annoys me a wee bit but i get 
 over it, you start out in ACT I there are 5 acts total of which contain a few quests a few unique 
 monsters to be found and the big mac daddy of the ACT (the boss) there are of course 5 bosses one 
 for every ACT, if your wondering diablo is the 4th sounded kind of weird that diablo is 4th whens 
 hes suppost to be the big bad owner of hell, however Baal is the 5th ACT boss which uses some pretty 
 cool moves once you get pass his little gaurds which aren't so little.. he can teleport and clone 
 himself but you'll tell the difference from the clone and himself, for example the clones name 
 is differently alligned and his life goes down quicker than the real baal himself, overall a perfect 
 game for a role play sort of person that likes to kick a little butt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenshin836
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Lord of Destruction for Diablo 2 vastly improved upon the already great multiplayer, providing 
 you with an addictive and fun experience.
  
  Gameplay - The same great stuff from D2 is back and now you got more quests, Baal, bigger story, 
 more items. Tons of great new stuff. And the new classes are great as well, adding more variety 
 to your choices. Immature players will somewhat hamper your online experience though.
  
  Graphics - They're looking really dated these days but not bad for 2001. The spell effects are 
 especially good.
  
  Sound - Great voice acting and great music. Weapon and spell sound effects are very nicely done 
 as well. Top-Notch stuff that leaves little to be desired.
  
  Replay Value - If your into deep RPGs in general or MMORPGs, you'll find yourself constantly playing 
 this game either multiplayer wise or singleplayer wise. It's extremely in-depth and will literally 
 drain the hours away.
  
  Ultimately, if your just a remote fan of RPGs, especially multiplayer ones: I highly recommend 
 you get Lord of Destruction (along with Diablo 2 itself) . It's addicting, fun, deep and is one 
 of the best multiplayer games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica_fan42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 31, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Diablo II Lord of Destruction is the sequel to Diablo and what a sequel it is. In this game you 
 get two new classes to be. You get the  all with 
 their own powers that are all fun to play. This game has 4 stages and within each stage it has 
 it's own unique missions. Upon completing these missions, you get a reward, some remarkably better 
 than the other. For instace for completing a mission, you might get a free stat point, or prices 
 will drop at the smith ect. Although this game is fun single player, it really shines when you 
 get online and play multiplayer. Multiplayer is amazing and you can play with up to 7 other people 
 at a time, which can be quite thrilling. There are a ton of weapons, armours, items, and potions 
 to collect. And there are a lot of unique items that are hard to find, and have lots of added attributes 
 to them. Each stage ends with a boss battle that in some circumstances can get pretty difficult. 
 It really depends on how many people are on that server at a time, because when someone joins a 
 game, the monsters get stronger, when someone leaves a game they weaken. This game is great and 
 I recommend it for anyone, but if you do play the multiplayer is where it's at and you can have 
 hours and hours of gameplay there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordxephon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  My friend let me borrow this game and I could'nt put it down then when I got my own I loved it 
 played for hours. The great thing about this game is that it's actually a game and a mmorpg at 
 the same time which a lot of other mmorpgs fail to do. Another thing is that even though you don't 
 have character customazition (which I thought was gonna piss me off) you still won't find anyone 
 that looks exactly like you, I never found anyone that looked exactly like my druid and I played 
 for hours so I was very happy how my character looked. Bosses are fun even when you beat the game 
 you can still advance to harder levels and improve your gear (which is funner then you think) . 
 All around great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mormaso
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 LoD is one of the greatest games ever. The game is highly addictive and has amazing multiplayer!
 
  
  Gameplay: 10
  10, why? What's not to like, you're in a 3rd person view and travel a large map or crypt fighting 
 countless enemies using your skills. The basicness of it is the greatest part, put points into 
 skill and stats and your set!
  
  Graphics: 8
  Nice graphics averal, they could be better but this isn't what you would call a new game. Character 
 models are a bit blocky and, well, not sleek I guess. The map can make you feel like your running 
 on some paper and trees look like ugly jpegs.
  
  Sound: 8
  Not much here the spells sound nice and the music is okay. It can get repetitive though
  
  
 Multiplayer: 10
  You have to love the multiplayer for this game. Doing quests with your friends can get rid of your 
 boredum any time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamez504
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 26, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is particularly hard to write about to be honest, because it does what an expansion is 
 meant to do. IT EXPANDS THE EXISTING GAME!! The extras this expansion does add though are mostly 
 what you would want in an expansion. Extra equipment, extra story and just enabling you to continue 
 to become more powerful. In this, as with Diablo I, has a very good multiplayer. The only thing 
 i would complain about is that you cant import your existing characters, and therefore have to 
 rebuild them from scratch. In some ways this isn't a bad thing, providing you love the game so 
 much that you would redo it and redo it 1000 times over.
  
  I would write more about this, but i'd have to redo the entire game just to get some basic stuff 
 to write! All in all though, i advise anyone who enjoyed Diablo II to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valherran
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  Diablo II LOD, the expansion to Diablo II and sequal to Diablo I. This game has lasted on the internet 
 for god knows how long, and there is still a slew of ppl playing it! and thats saying something!
 
  
  Diablo II LOD consists of 5 characters plus 2 more now that there is an expansion, the new Act 
 V added on this game was quite interesting, but the MODs i have played for D2LOD are surprisingly 
 better (Beat this game first before you attempt the MODs, some MODs are insanely hard!!)
  
  Multiplayer online is incredible (as seen above) the amount of ppl listed online, the amount of 
 items available for trade and the insane difficulty the game cranks up to when you have the maximum 
 amount of people present!
  
  I'll let you readers who have never played this game to find out for yourselves if this game is 
 worth your 20 dollars at the local Wal-Mart*
  if someone like me has spent a quarter of their life playing this and has nothing but time on thier 
 hands, then this is the game for those who are looking for a highly addictive/time consuming hack 
 and slash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolt_o_lightnin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This game certainly has what it takes to be a great game. the game is solid all around and is a 
 definite must for anyone remotely interested in all kinds of fantasy and rpg games. All the classes 
 are fun to play as for their each unique styles of play. Barbarian - the ultimate melee character 
 with his brute strength and brawn, he is a force to be toyed with (warning ... do not toy with 
 this) Sorceress - the elemental mage of the selectable classes, with her destructive lightning, 
 fire and cold spells and the ability to teleportm she is potentially one of the funnest classes 
 to play Necromancer - good fun if u like dead things and dark sided stuff Paladin - my personal 
 favourite with his strong melee, and defensive and offensive auras that give bonuses to parties 
 and himself Amazon - fun for ranged attacks and generally just a good time to be had with this 
 class Druid - my 2nd favourite with the shapeshifting ability that can make this class almost unstoppable 
 Assassin - another great alternative for a good time to be had with combo attacks and dual blade 
 weapons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2112rushman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is so finely balanced and solid, it's very hard to find any fault with it. All seven 
 character classes are fun in their own way. Almost all the skills are fun to at least try before 
 you pick your favorites. Multiplayer on Battlenet is fascinating on so many levels- it contains 
 all the best and worst in human nature. There is also multiplayer on a local LAN and single player 
 as well. My favorite way to play by far is hardcore. There is nothing like it to get your heart 
 beating faster while sitting in a chair and playing a game. Over the years I've had more fun playing 
 Diablo II and the expansion than any other game on any system. There is one small thing that bugs 
 me though... you can't hotkey every skill to either mouse button. Having said that, I will buy 
 Diablo III the first day it's released. Generally speaking, Blizzard takes their time and won't 
 release a title before it's ready. I hope that they continue this tradition in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xJBones79x
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  I borrowed Diablo 2 from a friend and at first didn't really care, but when I finally launched 
 the game I was thrilled. It was my first RPG game. From that time this game was my favourite, but 
 I didn't really like the resolution only 640x480 and here comes The Lord of Destruction to game. 
 It added 800x600 and the game was like new. Except for some graphic improvements it gave you the 
 opportunity to play as 2 brand new characters; Druid and Assassin and added runs as well as rune 
 words. You've also was given a new act to complete with 6 unique quests and Baal as the Boss. The 
 game-play was huge, graphics very good at the time, music amusing, amazing on-line game experience 
 and many more make this a game you can't just walk by and forget. If you enjoyed Diablo 2 you won't 
 be disappointed with that one, but I must warn you this game is really very highly addictive even 
 if it's old school, it's still great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chauncey-darwin
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 Lord of Destruction is a great PC game. Its been out for a really long time and i am still 
 playing it. The 2 new classes are really awesome. The Druid is like the sorceress and the necromancer 
 put together but better cuz u get to change into werewolfs and werebears. The assassin is fun compared 
 to the amazon cuz shes still really fast but uses closer ranged attacks which i find more fun than 
 bows or javelins. I think that most people would really enjoy this. the only people that might 
 not are people who dont like video games or people that highly dislike these type of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigbudd0045
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This should really count as a review for bother Diablo 2 and its expansion LOD. I first got this 
 game as a hacked copy (i didnt have the internet yet let alone broadband) . I played the hell out 
 of the single player mode, then my friends and i played over lan, once i got the internet. Then 
 the expansion came out and it started all over again. Then I got broadband got the battlechest 
 and it started again. Every year no matter how much i try and shake my addiction i come back to 
 it. Each patch adds something, synergies that make different character builds viable, new items, 
 new runewords to make, and then new super quests such as annihlus and the Ubers. This game gets 
 better the more you play. Some people may be waiting for Diablo 3, and i am too, but Blizzard could 
 keep me further fixed with a simple 1.12 patch, and resetting the ladder. An expansion, though 
 Blizzard seems to make a game and one expansion as their MO, would make me drool. Sorry this review 
 is so random but my skin is starting to itch im jonesing for some more D2, the ubers await. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramseyT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Well I can honestly say Diablo 2 is the best dungeon crawler ever made, the problem is I hate dungeon. 
 I find them tetious and boring, But Diablo 2 is really a great game. They are obuise improvments 
 from the first Diablo, such as they map no longer takes up the entire screen but is jammed up in 
 the left corner wich works quite well. Theres also many new added classes that are all really awsome. 
 What Im glad they did was balance the power of the characters, you can play through the game with 
 any class and itll be the same diffuctly ( if you use the classes abilitys correctly) . As you might 
 know in the first Diaoblo is that the worriat class is about the only class you could play with. 
 But I found that there wasn't much to compell me to play and I eventually got bored with the game, 
 but that has nothing to do with the quality of the games, i just dont enjoy dungeon crawls. The 
 story isnt all that complex but the game really doesnt relie on the story. The graphics are mostly 
 defintly dated, but graphics dont make a game good. So if your a fan of dungeon crawls or action-rpg's 
 you will porbably love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  In 1996, Blizzard released the RPG game Diablo. Diablo immediately changed the video game and RPG 
 world. It was one of the greatest and most successful games of all time. Gamespot gave it a rating 
 of 9.6, a record for PC games for the website. The record still stands today. With the success 
 of Diablo, we would know that Blizzard would be smart enough to release a sequel. So four years 
 later, they did. With the release of Diablo II, it also instantly became a hit. Diablo II sold 
 more than 4 million copies. Then, in 2001, Blizzard released Diablo II, Lord of Destruction, which 
 is of course, the expansion set. This is the game I will talk about now.
  
  If you played and beat Diablo II, the game ended with your dude killing Diablo, the Lord of Terror. 
 At the end cinematic, your character eagerly destroyed the Soulstone. But Marius revealed that 
 he didnt destroy Baals Soulstone like Tyreal told him to. So, the hooded stranger, who Marius 
 and for the most part we believed, was Tyreal, and he took the soulstone from Marius. However, 
 Soulstone glowed as he moved it towards his face, and it wasnt Tyreal, it was Baal, the Lord of 
 Destruction! Now Baal is loose in the world. Then Tyreal then tells you (in the actual game, assuming 
 that youve already defeated it) that Baal has fled to the mountains, home of the Barbarians. Now, 
 you will be transported to the town of Harrogath, where most of the survivors live. Now you must 
 kill new monsters, and travel through the lands to hunt down and kill Baal, and end the chaos in 
 this world. Even though it is still the expansion, I have to say that Blizzard has done a fine 
 job in keeping Diablos great storyline, and still manages to squeeze everything in the storyline 
 to still keep it full of surprises and excitement.
  
  First, I will start off with the new features, with a deep look.
  
  The first new feature you 
 will find in this game, is the new menu screen and music. Though it isnt a major change, the menu 
 screen does look nicer, and so is the music. In the background, there is a picture of the snowy 
 City of Harrogath, the new town added in the game, where you will be in Act V if youve defeated 
 Diablo yet. And the music is the music that is in the Worldstone Keep, where you do the final battle 
 against Baal.
  
  Second, there are two new characters in the game. There are the Druid and the Assassin.
  
  
 The Druid is lets say, a nature lover. He uses the powers of nature on his side. He can make animals 
 that fight on his side, make powerful storms to kill all of his foes, and he can even shape-shift 
 into different animals. This is a fun and popular character.
  
  The Assassin has deadly weapons on her side. She can kill her enemies by setting traps, use psychic-like 
 moves, and use her claws (weapons) to kill her foes from toe-to-toe. Sadly, she isnt that fun 
 or exciting to use. The Druid is better.
  
  You will also realize that there are new weapons and armour that are intended for one class only. 
 The Assassin has claws that only she can use. The Sorceress now has a Wand that only she can use. 
 There are a few others.
  
  There are also new items that give you special bonuses by storing them in your inventory. Some 
 of these would include a higher percentage of gold you get when you kill your enemy, or higher 
 stats in Strength, Dexterity, Vitality, and Energy. For short, they are like some of the rings 
 of lesser value that you dont have to equip to use.
  
  You will also realize that your stash in the town is also a lot larger, thus making it even more 
 useful than it already was. There were complaints about the stash in Diablo II being way too small. 
 But now that has been changed!
  
  Also, you can now have two different sets of weapons that you can equip. Lets say, you have a 
 Barbarian who has two great swords in one set, and a Maul in the other. He has his Maul out, and 
 now he is facing numerous enemies, and his Maul is too slow. So now, rather than having to stick 
 with the Maul, he can now hit the w key, and it switches to the Great Swords!
  
  And perhaps one of the best changes in Lord of Destruction is this: Lets say that you have an 
 Iron Wolf that you really like, and when you are fighting Mephisto at the end of Act III, and he 
 dies. It isnt the end of the world. Lets assume you killed Mephisto, and went into Act IV. When 
 you talk to Tyreal, you will see that you can now resurrect your Iron Wolf. We learn two things 
 here. First, you will now see that you can now resurrect your dead Mercenary! Second, you can now 
 bring them into other acts! But theres more! If you hit O, you will see that your mercenary now 
 can be equipped with weapons and armour that make him even better! But that isnt the last change 
 for mercenaries! Lastly, if your Iron Wolf is hurt, and you take a Healing Potion from your inventory, 
 and drop it on his portrait, you can now heal him! Plus, your mercenaries can now grow levels that 
 make him/her even stronger!
  
  And how did I forget. There is a whole new act with a whole new set of monsters. Act V takes place 
 in the Mount Arreat I think. This is the home of the Barbarians (yes, you know what that means) . 
 There are many new monsters in this game. Plus, this Act has its own version of the Vile Betrayer, 
 a quest in the original Diablo. And the boss is none other than Baal, Lord of Destruction!
  
  There are so much changes in this game from its original version, Diablo II. However, you still 
 have to fight in the previous four Acts, there is no graphical change (but expansions usually dont 
 have those, but there are new sounds, like those the monsters make in Act V, plus the new soundtrack.
 
  
  Ill talk about Diablo IIs and the Lord of Destructions graphics. The graphics are actually quite 
 bad for Diablo IIs time. There isnt much detail in the characters (you will see that almost all 
 NPCs have no face!) . It is also a bit too light for such a dark game. Also, there arent much good 
 character models in this game or in Diablo II.
  
  Now Ill move on to the sound. The sounds in this game are okay. There are many sounds made by 
 the monsters, such as them screaming. Like, many Fallens and Fallen Shaman repeatily shout Rakanishu 
 or Bishibosh. Also, there are fair sounds made by the sounds of weapons and monsters dying. But 
 the voice casting is the best in Diablo II when it comes to the sound category. There are many 
 voices said by the characters, and many of the voices are very different. Also, there are a few 
 you may have heard before if youve played other Blizzard games. You may notice that Kashyas voice 
 is the same of those as Sarah Kerrigan (as a Terran) in Starcraft. There are also voices made by 
 the monsters. Whenever you are about to fight a major boss, they will always say something to you 
 before they face off against you.
  
  Now to value. Since this is an expansion set, it typically cost less than the original copy, so 
 it would be worth all of the changes to buy this game. There are many new features in this game 
 that make Diablo II even better than it was before, so it is definitely worth the money.
  
  Overall, Lord of Destruction definitely makes a lot of changes in Diablo II that make it worth 
 getting the money. Not only does it give you a new Act and characters, but improves on the actual 
 gameplay and make great improvements that make it great. If you have Diablo II, and have not picked 
 up the expansion set, you should definitely but a few extra dollars in Diablo II to get this game. 
 It is a great expansion set to a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Diablo is one of my favourite PC Games ever. I played diablo from the beggining and awaited this 
 incredible RPG. The posibility of making various things is exceptional. If you haven't played until 
 now I recommend immediate purchase of the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Absolute control as in many RPG. Lots of stuff to learn, lots of skills variable between type and 
 class. Many items to combine is a good step. Existence of normal, exceptional and elite items wich 
 can be simpl, magical, rare, set items and unique with the posibility of beeing soketed or beeing 
 etheral... check blizzards for more details.
  
  Graphic:
  
  Well at this time you won't find graphic so interesting or cool but at that time it was a splendor!
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Not so much sound. Of course there is the music and dialog but I refer at the SFX wich is not so 
 great.
  
  Choos Diablo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globenstein
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  I am not an rpg fan but when I played Diablo 2 with a friend, I have to admit there is something 
 greatly addictive about this game.
  
  The plot is rather interesting and is presented with a nice set of cutscenes with excellent cgi. 
 The graphics of the game are quite good although they might have been more detailed. The sounds 
 and music are fantastic in the expansion and battles will easily sound like real ones.
  
  The gameplay is centered around fighting only in real-time. You have ato choose your character 
 class, each with unique abilities. There is an almost endless variety of items to be found in different 
 acts (worlds) , each with different creatures and landscapes. There is a good selection of skills 
 but since they require much planning, you will find your first characters weak because you won't 
 know which to learn.
  
  The online multiplayer feature is the best of all. Because of a party feature, training in groups 
 will allow you to level fast and reach the more interesting parts of the game easily. Trading is 
 simple, although there are a lot of scammers out there.
  
  I'd recommend this game and its expansion to anyone who likes good mmorpgs with interesting plots. 
 In overall, a flawless gem from Blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jm4847
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 3, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm only going to review what the expansion adds to the original game, not the game as a whole.
 
  Act V: Act V is, when it comes to graphic details, the best act in the entire game. The characters 
 on the town are ok and the monsters are quite different to the ones in previous acts, which is 
 a good thing.
  However it does not make sense that the monsters from Harrogath are stronger than the ones in hell. 
 This game is called "Diablo", not "Baal" and I think Diablo should have been the final and strongest 
 villain.
  The new characters: The assassin and the druid are weaker that the original characters and fail 
 to catch my interest. They could have done a lot better.
  Runes, rune words and jewels: The best part of the expansion, they allow you to create new, more 
 powerful items.
  Charms: Some charms are really good, others (the vast majority) are crap. Don't waste your space 
 on them unless they are extremely good.
  Private stash: It could have had more space... but it's an improvement.
  The expansion also adds 
 character-based objects, which are a great boost, and lots of new items.
  In other words, if you liked Diablo II the Expansion is worth buying, but it could have been better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celine_Aensland
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  I'm talking strictly about GAMEPLAY (specifically singleplayer) , so don't expect me to slam which 
 game has what bugs or whatever. Titan Quest has been out for a while, you can read my review here:
 
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/rpg/titanquest/player_review. html? id=352166
  
  Yes, it's mostly a list of what TQ does stacked against D2. Before we start, a little clarification: 
 when I say Diablo 2, I really mean Diablo 2 plus the expansion, Lord of Destruction. There's no 
 point playing the original only, the expansion adds so much more, while still being an integral 
 part of the experience.
  
  I assume you've played both D2 and TQ, more than just superficially. If you're one of those casual 
 players who just plays and finishes and then moves on, don't bother - you'll be doing that to all 
 games anyway, so all I say to you is that both games are good. I also expect to be dealing with 
 long-time hardcore players looking for descriptions of actual gameplay mechanics, not those "ZOMG 
 FO SI TEH POW NOOB" one-track minded fanbois. Those too should not waste time reading reviews or 
 critiques and should go back to their wallhack-infested FPSes.
  
  On with the show.
  
  - - - [ PRESENTATION ] - - -
  
  Of course, TQ outshines D2. This is expected - it was released 
 more than half a damn decade later, if it didn't look or sound better SOMETHING is wrong. I'd like 
 to note that D2's music still holds pretty nicely. TQ is done in 3D though, and you can't beat 
 that pretty shadowing, transparency, and lighting effects - although TQ suffers horribly in managing 
 resources efficiently that even monster rigs experience slowdowns at night time phases of the game. 
 On the other hand, TQ boasts practically total customisation of looks of equipped items - put on 
 anything and you'll see it on your character - after all, it IS in 3D, what do you expect - just 
 apply the model and texture. If D2 attempted to do this you'd have to sprite every single equipment, 
 in every of the directions your character can face - the problem with 2D and prerendering.
  
  - - - [ GAMEPLAY ] - - -
  
  I'm not going to **** here, you can read most of my comparisons 
 in my TQ list:
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/rpg/titanquest/player_review. html? id=352166
  
  TQ practically beats D2... in all areas of CONVENIENCE - no need for portal / id scrolls, no 
 ammo, no durability, no vendor caps (making them always useful, D2's gambling is random and thus 
 not reliable bang-for-your-buck) ... all the small things OUT of combat.
  
  On the other hand, D2 outshines TQ in terms of actual gameplay - crowd control. TQ's skills are 
 mostly single-target oriented, whereas in D2 they were built with mobs in mind. This is the largest 
 single failure of TQ, which is why it will not (for me) replace D2 as King of ARPGs. Such a small 
 mistake, such a heavy price to pay.
  
  Think about it: you spend countless of hours locked in combat. Single combat? Pfft, of course not. 
 You face off against hordes and hordes of foes. So why the hell did TQ's design not reflect that? 
 Oh sure the spell masteries, but try play a spell user. At low levels what are you doing? I bet 
 that 99% of the players discover that staves can actually fire ranged... and do so. No actual skill 
 cast usage AT ALL. In fact, my caster just managed to level all the way up to afford to cast a 
 summon in BOTH her masteries, and yet she's STILL using her staff attack as her main (her ONLY!) 
 attack, besides a couple of aura passives. Lame!
  
  Also refer to my description of TQ's "Area of Influence" section - where monsters in TQ actually 
 turn their back on you and retreat... when you run beyond a certain point past where they spawn. 
 That's right, you can abuse this to kill bosses very easily by playing 
 
  
  - - - [ SUMMARY ] - - -
  
  Told ya it'd be brief. Anyway to recap, ARPGs need to reflect the fact that you'll be surrounded... 
 mobbed... TQ for the most part does not. Take a look at the hunting mastery: all the "crowd control" 
 skills are just that decoy thing. Everything else is either a passive aura, or a single-target 
 attack.
  
  This is where D2 shines. Most of the time you'll WELCOME mobs because you can then gather them 
 around and then nuke them all at the same time to save on mana. THIS is where the fun lies... mass 
 nuking, not slinking around plinking at enemies from afar. Sure you get both situations in either 
 game, but ACTION means more of the former than the latter. More mob-killing instead of picking-off-one-by-one. 
 Even D2's Barbarian's skills had a lot of mob-love.
  
  Thus, to truly PROGRESS you need to improve on the gameplay mechanics, not just make everything 
 prettier. You can apply this to the next-generation consoles too. I will bet you ANYTHING that 
 PS3 / XBOX360 games are just prettier versions of everything we've already seen and played before. 
 Just look at the launch titles: some shooters, a couple of sports games... YAWN! Where's the innovation! 
 Even said shooters don't really improve that much on the current crop of stuff.
  
  Same goes to the TQ - D2 argument. Titan Quest is a GOOD attempt, I give it marks for style, and 
 for a good attempt, but Diablo 2 is STILL the undisputed Champion of action RPGs.
  
  - Ce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  So Blizzard didn't take long to capitalize on its Diablo 2 game. Unlike Starcraft, which I have 
 been waiting a long time for a sequel to, Blizzard got this one out about a year later.
  
  Lord of Destruction continues where Diablo 2 left off with the addition of two new characters, 
 the assasin and druid classes. But besides the two new classes, an additonal act to reach and some 
 new combinations for mixing and matching your objects to create new weapons, there really isn't 
 that much else that separates this game from the original. Its a nice expansion and added an additonal 
 few hours of gameplay to this great series. In the end, I still felt they should have just added 
 it to the original game rather than make us wait for a year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasc389
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  When i first got this game, (2001) when it was released, i was confused of all the new things it 
 had to offer and such. The best part of Diablo 2 is the fact that you could probably play the game 
 for the rest of your life and always have something to do. They have new patches every once in 
 a while with new items and things change. I myself got addicted to it and played it forever, having 
 a godly account or 2. 
  
  When you first see it you wouldnt think the graphics are that great. Well in a game like this, 
 when you actually get used to it, the graphics arent much of a factor at all. This game is more 
 about its awesome gameplay and search for better items constantly to get your characters better. 
 
  
  The game is continuesly challenging, whether it be dueling with a friend, or going up against Baal ( 
 in act 5 hell) .
  
  The sound is amazing as every little thing you do you hear perfectly and fits with the game just 
 right. The learning curve may take awhile due to the reason that there is SO much that you can 
 do and find. Some stuff you may not ever find or find that you have only heard about.
  
  Overall this is a great game, that i reccomend to any computer lover with time on there hands. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalflame_04
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 3, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  diablo was a fantastic game that we all loved to play when we were kiddies i always did anyways 
 but now ironlore has come out with the ever amazing titan quest which is basically diablo in a 
 different time era and with a new haircut and a good one for that matter (titan quest is much better) 
 anyways diablo was fantasticly designed until the hole key key thingy started i like how you could 
 go to fight unbelievable bosses and such but everyone got rich so a soj wasnt so much anymore as 
 i had 3 good characters a whirlwind barb lvl 87 a trap assasin 84 and jav amazon 84 as well all 
 my characters had there best weapons (botd for barb and ss, trapper claws and eth titans) they 
 all also had the best enigma they could but i would play with my friends and dominate lol and they 
 all had one decent character with enigma or something but when the new patch came out i was a away 
 for a week and after my 200+ hours of work while my friends had barely played half the time they 
 were rewarded with the same level of equipment as myself because keys were worth so much, and by 
 the time i got back keys were **** and noone wanted them lol thats all i gotta say good but ruined 
 by a bad patch in my opinion but anywasy all never forget my diablo days they were some fun stuff 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theaznfish
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  This game was really great way back when, but then people started cheating then it wasn't as fun. 
 Currently i'm surprised the game is still going considering how old it is, but it's fun to return 
 to old times again and again after a few years. Love the barbs and the quests are fun. The only 
 cheat that I'm aware that works now in 1.1 version is the maphack but about a year ago Blizzard 
 implimented a ban-all policy, basically anyone linked to using a hack at one time or anther was 
 banned outright. Phew good thing I didn't. I'd recommend this game highly and watch out for those 
 after your gear and accounts. (No one ever asks for your passwords that's legitamentally working 
 for Blizzard) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gertthegamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Imagine yourself to be the strongest person in the world. You are a hero, you save people's life, 
 stories are writen about you. Sounds nice no? Just imagine you just beat all the evil in the world, 
 you saved the world receiving eternal glory and a well deserved rest. And that is the time when 
 an even greater evil shows his ugly head, forcing you to postpone your holliday.
  
  This is exactly what hapens in LoD. After beating Mephisto and Diablo in the original, the third 
 of the prime eavils appears. This is a bad thing for the people in that world, but an oh so great 
 thing for us gamers. The expansion allows you to continue your journey from Mount Harrogath, through 
 the barbarian wastelands, the icy cripts and demon caves to the worldstone. this worldstone is 
 the thing Baal is after, since it can open the gates to hell (that seems worth stopping him no?) .
 
  
  The expansion introduces two new characters. The assasin and the Druid.
  The assasin can use Marshal arts with her special claw weapons and can set traps. The Druid has 
 powers of the nature and has shapeshifting skills. Powers of the nature include control of nature (which 
 results in summoning skills) and elemental skills ( Volcano's , Tornado's and the powerfull armageddon.) 
 Shapeshifting skills allow him to turn into a werewolf or werebear. These changes increase his 
 damage, attack speed and life.
  
  Off course there is more to an expansion than new characters. There are also alot of new items 
 available, going from new weapons, class specific items, charms to runes that can be socketed into 
 items or can be used in cube recipes.
  
  For those who play online, this also means you now have the possibility to fight ber Diablo and 
 take the tristram challenges which puts you face to face with all three of the prime eavils at 
 once (off course they are much stronger than before)
  
  I can keep on talking about this game for hours, but you don't have time to read that long, do 
 you? So, all you really need to know is that this is a great game, with massive replayability and 
 off course, alot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuill92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I liked the game, it was very fun for a while. But it gets very stale after you have beaten it. 
 There are many different ways to play, such as online hardcore and softcore, ladder and non-ladder. 
 There are many ways to make different characters such as elemental druid or shape shifter druid, 
 etc. You can join a clan, or collect many sets which I liked and if a whole set is collected you 
 get a special aura or effects and skills, which improves gameplay. Overall it's a superb game. 
 I think everybody should try it. It does get a little overbearing after awhile because there is 
 5 acts, and so many quests. But that is a fun part. I think it would be funner if you say, could 
 be in different guilds or be able to craft things like in World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Somewhere in the RPG genre, there is a line. This line seperates the complex and story oriented 
 RPGs from the action based gameplay oriented RPGs. While gaming snobs constantly attempt to discredit 
 the latter, their attempts fall flat, as while the deep and complex RPGs usually deliver quite 
 well, it never stacks up to the pure addictive qualities of the other side of the line, the action 
 oriented RPG.
  
  Diablo 2 picks up after the original Diablo. The warrior who defeated Diablo prior to this installment 
 has found the bright idea of jamming the "soulstone" which holds the essence of the invading demon 
 Diablo. His belief that he can contain this monster within himself is dashed as he finds that he 
 will not be able to contain the demon for much longer. Now he travels east to find his demonic 
 brothers, Mephisto, and Baal, so that he may continue his war to take over the human realm. You 
 must battle through his minions, and find him in his lair in hell, and put an end to the demonic 
 invasion.
  
  It's a cookie cutter story, but the history surround the world and backstory is fascinating, and 
 the dialouge and cinematics are very well done, and the writing is exceptional.
  
  While many people argue that Diablo 2 and its expansion aren't RPGs, and just "action games with 
 experience points tacked on" they're sorely mistaken, as despite the clickfest nature that Diablo 
 2 carries, the game has a surprisingly deep, and quite complex and powerful leveling system.
  Even though Diablo 2 has been out for six years, and the expansion around four, there are still 
 new types of characters being developed each day on BattleNet (Blizzard's multiplayer component 
 for most of their games) which shows Diablo 2's pure potential to express creativity in however 
 you wish to develop your character.
  As in any RPG Diablo 2 has an wealth of quests. Unlike the original Diablo, they aren't randomized 
 anymore, but instead, Blizzard opted to go for far more interesting and rewarding quests than those 
 of the original. Most quests push the storyline further, but there are a few optional quests which 
 are worth doing purely for the great bonuses they offer. 
  
  Diablo 2 plays quite simply, which allows nearly anyone to jump right into the game without a problem. 
 While developing your skills properly might take some time taking used to, navigating the world 
 and laying waste to your enemies will be as simple as ever, putting aside the annoying dice rolls 
 and mysterious random resistance rolls. 
  D2 instead opts to use a simple armor and attack rating system, which without throwing in anymore 
 annoying and confusing numbers, simply dictates how hard it is for an enemy to hit you, or the 
 chance you'll hit an enemy respectively.
  
  Allowing you to focus more on the game itself, and less on random numbers and meaningless statistics, 
 Diablo 2 plays by nearly only two buttons, the left mouse button, and the right mouse button. You 
 can assign which ever skills you've chosed to either button, and you can hotkey each skill for 
 easy access. You can switch your skills on the fly (operating as spells or combat skills, and passive 
 skills that work on their own, adding benefits to your character constantly) . While you battle, 
 the game is mostly handled by clicking on your enemies with either button to deliver your attack 
 of choice.
  
  Battles become far more interesting as resistences and weakness come into play, so that the game 
 doesn't degenrate into a completely mindless waste. Certain monsters are weak to fire or ice, or 
 etc. proper detection of such weakness will make the game easier for most players, and proves to 
 spice up the gaming experience quite a bit.
  Diablo 2 handles leveling up quite easily. A bar at the bottom of the interface shows your progress 
 to the next level as you kill enemies. Once you do level, you get the chance to distribute five 
 stat points and one single skill point.
  
  While this review contains both Diablo 2 and it's expansion Lord of Destruction, one should note 
 the differences. Lord of Destruction adds two new character classes, one new Act (instead of the 
 original's four) brand new class specific items, and jewels. There are several tweaks to existing 
 characters, and the overall experience is more balanced this time around.
  
  Diablo 2 gives you a fine repetoire of attributes to improve, and properly developing your character 
 in both attributes and skills will prove important to how your character plays.
  The attributes follow as such.
  
  ----
  
  Strength - This dictates how much damage you 
 do, and along with that, most pieces of armor and weapons need a good strength level to be used.
 
  
  ----
  
  Dexterity - Both improves your attacking rating and your defense rating, a higher dexterity means 
 you will hit more often, and enemies will hit less often. Many weapons need a good dexterity rating.
 
  
  ----
  
  Vitality - This is your overall health count, while you do slowly gain health as you level, upgrading 
 your vitality will improve your overall health level heavily.
  
  ----
  
  Energy - Deciding how much mana you have, which spells and skills use as you cast them, also decides 
 how fast your mana regenerates.
  
  ----
  
  Your skills vary from spells that cause big booms, give bonuses to your health, improve defense, 
 allows you to hit more than one enemy at once with your weapon, and etc. each character has a unique 
 set of thirty skills, and choosing the right skills and finding ones that benefit eachother are 
 a large part of the game. 
  Diablo 2 has the prerequisite monster loots, item drops, and armor. Each piece of armor or every 
 weapon has a different look, so your character will almost never look the same as another one. 
 
  
  Diablo 2 and its expansion pack Lord of Destruction, feature seven character classes, every single 
 one is extremely different, attributing to different speed, health, endurance, and unique skill 
 trees.
  The classes are as follows.
  
  ----
  
  Paladin - A "holy warrior" the Paladin has the ability to use auras that benefit him and his party, 
 he excels against undead enemies, and is an even mix of defensive and offensive power.
  
  ----
  
  Sorceress - The Sorceress focuses on spells, and in return for her massive firepower, 
 she is quite weak in close combat. Although she makes up for this with very powerful elemental 
 spells that range from exploding fireballs to arching lightning. She focuses on spells, so her 
 mana is higher than most.
  
  ----
  
  Barbarian - The Barbarian is completely combat focused, so as one would expect, he doesn't have 
 many spells or much mana. His skills focus on passive abilities that boost his abilities in combat, 
 or just make him far tougher. He also has various combat skills that allow him to mow down enemies 
 easily.
  
  ----
  
  Amazon - One of the most versatile characters in the game, she is combat focused, but unlike the 
 Barbarian, she relies on speed and dexterity. She can use a bow, javeling, or spear very well, 
 and her skills allow her to use all of those weapons to their full extent.
  
  ----
  
  Necromancer - For those that like to have others do the work for them, the Necromancer can summon 
 undead allies and golems that will destroy his enemies. He also has curses which weakens enemies 
 and boosts his powers. He also has quite some offensive powers with various powerful magical attacks. 
 He's very frail in close combat, and relies on his minions and long ranged magic attacks to defeat 
 his enemies.
  
  ----
  
  Assassin - The Assassin is a mix of magic, and dexterious combat. Her skills rely on taking down 
 enemies quickly with very powerful attacks, and her traps and martial arts moves all defeat enemies 
 in large waves. While she is quite powerful in the damage department, she is frail, and makes up 
 with this with high damage and speed.
  
  ----
  
  Druid - The more combat worthy version of the Necromancer. His animal companions are lesser in 
 numbers, but stronger and some give boosts to one's party. His elemental skills are powerful, but 
 take up large amounts of mana. The Druid uses his shapeshifting skills to defeat enemies in close 
 combat, making him a fine balance of all skills.
  
  ----
  
  With all this variety and potential to create whichever type of character you want. Diablo 2 does 
 exceptionally well in the gameplay department.
  
  But despite that, Diablo 2's graphics are quite dated. Even for its time, Diablo was quite drab 
 and bland compared to its counterparts, but it makes up for this with pure gorgeous spell effects. 
 LoD introduces a better resolution, so all the nice lighting effects can be used to their full 
 effect. The visuals in Diablo 2 won't amaze, but they're adequate, and the spell effects are quite 
 nice.
  
  Following that, the sound is great. Each item has an audibly drop, and after awhile, you can tell 
 which item dropped just from the sound it makes. The tinging of a jewel, the thunk of a club, or 
 the metalic clang of armor. The surroundings are atmospheric, and the soundtrack is phenomenal. 
 
  Creatures create audable noise, monsters growl behind corners, and spell effects make huge explosions 
 and electrical noise. 
  The voice acting is exceptional, and each character has a memorable quality because of the pure 
 excellence of the voice acting.
  
  Sound will not dissapoint in Diablo 2.
  
  If you get bored of the Singeplayer, Diablo 2 presents you with an excellent multiplayer mode. 
 Like most games, there's a lobby, and you join whichever game you wish. Quests and the such are 
 handled appropriatly. You can team up with other members, and quests and experience are properly 
 handled between your party members.
  As you would expect, characters compliment eachother quite well, and having a good party combination 
 is important to success against your enemies. There's nothing more fun than trading, dueling, or 
 defeating monsters with others, and Diablo 2's multiplayer will keep your busy for a long time.
 
  
  So if you're looking for something that will keep you busy for a long, long time. Diablo 2 is the 
 game to pick up. If you don't already own this addictive masterpiece, you have something great 
 missing from your collection. If you play it for the Singeplayer, the Multiplayer, or both, Diablo 
 2 and its expansion are an absolute must.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  When Diablo II was released, I found the game repetive, tedious and way to simple for an old Might 
 and Magic afficionado as me.
  
  The opinion more or less still stands, but the simple core mechanics of Diablo II has grown on 
 me over the years, and the LoD expansion pack made a few subtle changes, that makes the game more 
 balanced, less frustrating and - more importantly - adds layers of item complexity to the core 
 mechanics.
  
  Anyone interested in these 'hidden layers' of the game, has to check out 'The Arreat Summit', which 
 is basically an online hint book full of simple and advanced recipes for both runewords, crafted 
 item and more. Anyone attempting to run through the 'hell' difficulty should familiarize himself 
 with some of the more complex combinations, as the game rears its ugly head at that point. 
  Consider the 'normal' and 'nightmare' difficulty levels as mere practice for the mayhem shown at 
 'hell' difficulty. 
  
  A long study of the skills available for each class is also required, as some of the more obvious 
 skills usually don't work that well on later levels, or has limited functions compared to other 
 skills.
  
  What starts as a simple action RPG game, clearly becomes a strategy bound later on - and a subject 
 for discussion for long time players, even to this day. Especially when working together in the 
 very fun LAN multiplayer game - which is the single player campaign in coop.
  
  And that is the magic of Diablo II: LoD - the challenges and added replay value in multiplayer 
 (which can be hard to set up on newer computers in my experience) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillmundo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  As if Diablo II wasn't good enough, they made this amazing expansion set that makes it better in 
 every way! It's a very fun game that's easy to get into. It's right at the border line of being 
 of being complex and too simple that makes it just right. There were a few flaws, but for the most 
 part it did well. Games that give you the oppertunity to classify and create your own characters 
 and define as much as you can in this game take a gamble, but just like all Blizzard games, they 
 worked hard and made it worth while. This game is defintely one of my favorites. The graphics may 
 have been a little dated, but it's the gameplay that counts. If you want to play a clean, crisp, 
 fun, addicting, and long game, then play Diablo II: Lord of Destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oni_black
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Diablo II was a terrific game, and has lasted years. It can still be played and enjoyed. A good 
 expansion to this great game would be hard to pull of, but on the whole Blizzard succeeds.
  
  Lord of Destruction sees you questing to defeat the last Prime Evil, Baal. You play in the 
 Barbarian Highlands and Mountains. 
  
  Two new characters are added, the Assassin and the Druid. Both are a good addition, with some interesting 
 spells. A lot of small, but great, changes have been made, such as dual weapons and many new items.
 
  
  However, Lord of Destruction is somewhat disappointing. The campaign is easy to finish, and the 
 new enemies are uninspired. Also, the quests in Lord of Destruction are also very average, with 
 nothing we haven't seen before.
  
  However, this is still a great game. If you are a Diablo this is definitely a must, as the new 
 characters and additions cannot be missed, and you'll wonder how you ever played Diablo II without 
 them.
  
  If you are any sort of Diablo fan, this expansion is a must. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axecident
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Diablo II LoD since the beginning even since the very first Diablo was launched. 
 I loved it, It was a fun game and killed time very fast!. When Diablo II LoD was released it was 
 a HUGE game. The single player was awsome and last but not least the Battlenet online play was 
 superb but once the hacks and dupes and buggys where released into the realms for most people the 
 game had just died but for me I loved it... using my lvl 99 Barb and Amazon with all my hacks and 
 buggs... those where the good days of Diablo II LoD, I stopped playing about a year and a half ago 
 cause the 1.10 patch killed it for me... but other than that... GREAT game i recommend it to anyone 
 who likes to play PC games even if you are not a fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriPPZz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Diablo II LoD since the beginning even since the very first Diablo was launched. 
 I loved it, It was a fun game and killed time very fast!. When Diablo II LoD was released it was 
 a HUGE game. The single player was awsome and last but not least the Battlenet online play was 
 superb but once the hacks and dupes and buggys where released into the realms for most people the 
 game had just died but for me I loved it... using my lvl 99 Barb and Amazon with all my hacks and 
 buggs... those where the good days of Diablo II LoD, I stopped playing about a year and a half ago 
 cause the 1.10 patch killed it for me... but other than that... GREAT game i recommend it to anyone 
 who likes to play PC games even if you are not a fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwjbd
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome doesn't have good graphics but it doesnt need them very fun to play the game 
 even better online for battle. net. Very easy to play isnt hard to get very good at it very fun 
 levels very good gameplay one of the best roleplaying games i have ever played. Its definaetely 
 my most favorite game to play. very good storyline with 5 acts filled with fun acts in them. best 
 part for me was when u face diablo not to hard to defeat him as long as u are leveld up enough 
 for me i waited till level 35 so i can have some of my level 30 skills to use against him which 
 help alot especially against him. By far this game has never made me bored it was only boring untill 
 i found out that the battle. net/internet play was free and all u neede was to be online to do so 
 once i got on i havent stopped doing so and i have met lots of friends from it which is real cool. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloody1f4knight
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 9, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Diablo 2 ever since it came out. I was so excited to hear about the expansion 
 pack and I bought it one week after it came out I believe. It was really fun for couple of years. 
 I really enjoyed it and I felt like I could play this game forever. However I was wrong, recently 
 I quit the game for good because I realized that it's the same thing over and over again. My character 
 is level 88 and I can pretty much own everyone in the game so dueling was pretty much pointless.
 
  
  In conclusion, I recommend you to buy this game because it is really fun and addicting game at 
 first. But don't expect to play this game forever since every games get old sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -generic-
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  *Revised as of 07/Apr/2007
  
  This will cover both Diablo II and the Lord of Destruction expansion pack as of patch 1.11b, as 
 I'm not going to write a review for both games. My general opinion is that the expansion pack is 
 worth it and you'll never want to play the game without it. It offers more items, new characters, 
 more monsters and a new fifth act. It also adds support for 800x600 resolution which makes the 
 game look much better.
  
  About the game in general, the general premise is going through each act uncovering more of the 
 story. The acts consist of quite straightforward quests that mostly end up in fighting a powerful 
 boss, a butt load of monsters, or both, after which you will be rewarded. The game is for the most 
 part a blast to play and highly addicting. But there were some parts that I thought Blizzard really 
 should have put more consideration into because the game can end up being unbalanced, unfair and 
 frustrating.
  
  Gameplay:
  This game is for the most part a fun hack and slash which can have you literally ploughing through 
 hoards of monsters. The game initially starts off easy but will get harder as you progress, facing 
 tougher foes in greater numbers. But there are some moments in the game where the balance is just 
 not there and ends up being extremely frustrating. For example, one of the boss fights proved to 
 be infuriating, because the boss had an aura which will freeze you without needing to be anywhere 
 near, and constantly moving and attacking incredibly slowly while he beats me senseless isn't fun 
 at all. Another example was in Nightmare mode, I was a Sorceress happily decimating all monsters 
 in my path. I was having a good time, the game was fun. But I was then pitted against 3 super tough 
 bosses... who I had to all kill in one go. After several tries, losing more and more experience 
 I just alt-F4'ed out in disgust. While tough boss fights can give a nice sense of satisfaction 
 when you win, pissing the player off in a lengthy trial and error process is NOT how to do it.
 
  
  The cause of 90% of deaths I found frustrating is due to the fact that your character is momentarily 
 stunned on being hit. So I'm trying to retreat, but my character won't move, the enemy hits me 
 again, stunning me, repeat until I'm dead. That *really* pisses me off. I'm aware that there are 
 items which will reduce the stun, but I'd prefer that this feature not even be in the game in the 
 first place. 'Realistic'? Yes. Enhances the game? NO! It's just a source of annoyance.
  
  Other annoying aspects of the game are found in the higher difficulty stages (Nightmare and especially 
 Hell) where the monsters are all on steroids as well as an abundance of super unique monsters 
 who are bosses in their own right, surrounded by several minions, who share their attributes. 
 In one memorably infuriating example, I was pitted against several archers whose attack would freeze 
 you  great fun right? I broke my keyboard in sheer anger when I was killed for the umpteenth time 
 being frozen, attempting to retreat but getting shot down because I was moving so slowly (and don't 
 forget the stun effect) , then having to hike all the way back so I could get my stuff and recover 
 my hard earned experience only to be killed again even faster since I was unarmed and defenceless, 
 losing even more experience, and so on.
  
  As GameSpot's review mentioned, Hell difficulty really needs several players working together, 
 because with just the one player, you're going to end up throwing your computer out of the window. 
 But considering that it's the SINGLE player mode, it should have been more balanced. Take my advice, 
 only play Hell difficulty 'single player' mode on a LAN with friends, because it's not fun struggling 
 on your own. Another alternative is if you are willing to spend hours upon hours grinding (a highly 
 monotonous act of killing monsters in hopes that they will drop good stuff) for decent equipment, 
 and have spent all your skill points on the right skills, so those playing the game for the first 
 time will usually end up having to create a new character from scratch, and only spending skill 
 points on ones that work the most effectively, not the skills they want.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer component is a let down. Trading is risky as there is a high chance you'll end 
 up with a dupe (duplicated) item which will likely be erased by the game, so don't even bother 
 with it. The dupe problem is such that novice players who cheat could end up with high-end equipment 
 the easy way, leading to my next gripe - griefers. The PvP (player vs player) system is not based 
 on mutual agreement, ie: a player can go hostile with another player and fight them without their 
 consent. While countermeasures have been taken, it would have been far better to require both players 
 choosing to go hostile with each other. It would not affect duels with consenting players, and 
 all other players could play without fear of lame player killers (PKers) wanting to ruin their 
 game, especially those playing on Hardcore mode. Why Blizzard didn't use this system in the first 
 place is simply beyond me. The game is also notoriously laggy, even when I played it on a LAN.
 
  
  Graphics:
  For a game this old and in 800x600 resolution, it still looks decent and things are nicely detailed. 
 The special effects like lightning bolts and portals are also well done. Although this is quite 
 an antiquated game and will run with ease on almost any computer, some really large scale massacres 
 can still bring the frame rate down.
  
  Sound:
  The music suited the levels they were played. Caves and dungeons have a slow, eerie melody and 
 the music style also fits into the culture of the current act's location. The voice acting was 
 well done and each different player character has their own personality and matching voices. The 
 voices aren't just different people saying the same lines, the different characters will also say 
 slightly different things for the same occasion according to their character trait, such as the 
 Barbarian declaring glorious victory and the Paladin apologising for what must be done. Characters 
 in towns will also act differently to your particular character according to their own background, 
 while nothing different actually happens, it does add variety.
  
  Value:
  Both games can now be bought for cheap, and there are game shops that may do deals when you buy 
 both Diablo II and Lord of Destruction as a pair. Although you'll be playing the same storyline 
 over again, the game has stuff that will reduce the monotony with different characters and their 
 skills, the almost unlimited item variants, hunting for super unique sets or weapons, the three 
 difficulty levels as well as the multiplayer, it's quite a good deal.
  
  Conclusion:
  Diablo II is still a game worthy of playing, and the expansion pack is practically mandatory to 
 get the most out of it. However, the increased difficulty introduced in the recent patches have 
 killed the aspect of making your own character, favouring cookie cutter specialised builds you 
 see in game guides. Since Blizzard are only interested in their cash cow WoW, there are still some 
 long standing bugs, and the multiplayer is in shambles. There's still life in Diablo II, but it's 
 slowly dwindling away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3monul
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  This game , it's like the best rpg (hack and slash) ever made... I've lost like 7 years of my life 
 just playing playing and searching for itemes... It's amazing how at first you fiind it hard to 
 play... You may think at the beggining that it's another crap hack-slash and abandon the game.. But 
 after you succede tru your first victory against diablo and fiind your first good itemes, you will 
 be so traped by the game that you won't know when day turns to night...
  I sugest if you don't have time, that you play this game finish it and after that abandon it.
 
  Just play it and you will see... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotten__eggs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 is alotta fun once you start getting into it, the worst part is most of the people online 
 are asses, starting up you will get the noob comments repedivly thrown at you which can be frusturaing. 
 You will reall have to put some time into it to get as good as the high level chars. The gamplay 
 rocks i love hack and slash games and this is awsome. the action never stops making it alotta fun. 
 Thers not much better then gettin a couple friends to buy a $20 game and spend hours hacking demons 
 to pieces,
  
  
  too bad it cant have more than 1 storyline the game just gets boring. and theres not enough good 
 drops eaither. but the gameplay is fun if u anit done it 40 times. graphics are pretty good for 
 being a 2000-1 game. but u might wanna play some music while playing lol... sound effects are good 
 but music is really gay. over all i give it a 8.2 and i fu havent seen someone play the game or 
 u dont own it its worth buyin even if u dont get the expansion its still only $20 for the game 
 and $40 for the battle chest so w/e. its still alot better than some new generation graphic games 
 with good sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robo2917
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 Lord of Destruction is one of the greatest games I have ever played. It is highly addictive 
 and very fun. It has excellent replay value and well worth the money you pay for it. With Blizzard 
 adding to new character classes and hundreds of new items to the game through this expansion pack 
 makes the game even greater then the regular one is. Even though Diablo 2 Lord of Destruction may 
 not have the greatest graphics in the world the game is still fun. I totally think that anyone 
 who is considering getting this game if you haven't already got it should really go out and buy 
 it because it is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryptofreak120
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II/LoD is probably one of the greatest MMORPGs of all time, with plenty of action and suspense 
 to keep you busy for a long time. Specifically speaking, I have a lot of complaints for the game 
 online, but you'll get a lot of value from the game from just the single player. Note, this review 
 will contain discussion for some aspects of the online play. This is also a review for both the 
 original and expansion.
  
  Gameplay - You play as a hero of one of seven classes (five if you only have the regular version) 
 and fight your way through five acts (four if you only have the regular version) and defeat the 
 Prime Evils: Mephisto, Diablo, and Baal, in that order. Choose from amazons, necromancers, barbarians, 
 assassins (expansion) , druids (expansion) , sorceresses, and paladins, customize them with equipment, 
 and choose which skills they take on as they level up. There's a lot of customizing to be done, 
 but don't expect too much in the ways of looks. The gameplay online is superb, but not as good 
 as World of Warcraft (which is, ironically, made by the same company) . You can form parties with 
 other players and fight evil creatures, or duel each other (and steal the other person's gold when 
 they die...) . For such an amazing game with great customization properties and questing purposes, 
 the online is truly where frustration will begin. You constantly have to keep up with everyone 
 else (equipment-wise) , deal with hackers and bots (almost impossible to keep sanity after the 100th 
 time, which will be in a few hours after playing) , and go with what other players think is "the 
 correct way to build this character". To stay with everyone else, you'll feel that they manipulate 
 your decisions and ridicule you when you don't do "what they would've done". This becomes impossible 
 as you need to do gear runs against bosses and hope the drops are good (those that use map hacks 
 are the ones that can pull this off) . On a good note, Blizzard has eliminated almost every kind 
 of hack, so you'll find at least half of the players on battle. net in the same predicament you 
 are. Another big complaint is the fact that, when you die, magical gold-stealing pixies rob your 
 stash and take a quarter of your gold (not really, but it might as well be) . Many other things 
 abound, from the quick story that is easily bypassable when someone helps you (preferrably someone 
 with a high level) , and you'll feel the fun sap right out when you're surrounded by cheap players 
 and duped items, where you'll no longer be able to trust the game after a while. Those that can 
 keep calm after the 10,000th Baal run or the 1,000,000th Meph run are truly blessed (I quit the 
 game due to absurd circumstances and conditions that have been plaguing battle. net) .
  
  Graphics - By todays standards... pretty much rubbish. It was good a while ago, but it'll still 
 please the eyes. Don't expect anything too much, though the CGI cutscenes are a sight to behold.
 
  
  Sound - Nicely orchestrated, good voice-acting, and very good sound effects. It only gets bland 
 after a while if you've spent 200 or so hours on it (like me, only I think it was 1000 hours...) .
 
  
  Value - Ummm, 1000 hours. That's point proven. Addicting, though not as much so as WoW, but still 
 addicting, and it'll likely take-over your soul. A storyline that should be seen, multiple possibilities 
 for customization, and different paths for you to take. It can only be called awesome.
  
  It just wears off after a while, the fun. You'll find yourself trapped by what other people think 
 of you, and will have no choice but to quit and think about how anyone could still be playing this 
 game. Awesome, but it'll only last for 1000 hours max. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II: Lord of Destruction is a thrilling expansion pack that really adds a lot to Diablo II. 
 Though there really isn't much difference between the original game and the expansion, Lord of 
 Destruction fixes almost everything that was wrong with Diablo II.
  
  Your storage chest is about twice as big, so you can store a lot more, which was never really a 
 huge problem in the original, but it's a good fix. There are a lot more enemies, which adds some 
 variety to the game, and plenty new items to fetch, so there's reason enough to play through the 
 Story again.
  
  The two new classes are crap. The Druid is just a hybrid Warrior-Necromancer type without immense 
 strength or revive prowess. The Assassin is just sneaky and bothersome, and her weapons are difficult 
 to find and suck when you do. However, each character class now had unique weapons, so you can 
 find the best fits for each differently each game. You can now level up your hired help, which 
 makes them actually helpful instead of just annoying cannon fodder.
  
  Other than that, there really isn't any difference between the original and the expanded versions. 
 It remains a fantastic game, still lots of fun, and worth picking up if you still don't have it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddnes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I've played Diablo II off and on for years, taking breaks of months at a time. Until a few weeks 
 ago, I was unsure why I kept coming back to this old game. Was it the fact that there were still 
 more items to obtain, or that the ladder was updating constantly... possibly. Diablo II cost me 
 35 bucks when I first bought it, 25 more for the expansion. At first, I was intrigued by the variety 
 of characters and abilities that were available, however as time progressed, and I obtained these 
 varieties, I started wondering why I kept going back to play. 
  
  I tried trading items, and got pretty proficient at it. However trading gets monotonous, with the 
 "value" of items changing all the time, it almost takes more time to keep up with what is worth 
 what than to actually find someone who has that item. 
  
  After trading for a few months, I started using my higher level characters (88-92 sorc) to "rush" 
 other characters through the first two acts. This was at a time when the soj (stone of jordan) 
 was a widely used form of currency, I was profiting one soj per difficulty completed, which turns 
 out to be two sojs every hour or so. This was much easier than trading for items, since I could 
 just stack up on sojs and find someone who has the item I want, offer him/her double of what its 
 worth and obtain that item. Many people said, "well im looking for a specific item". This is where 
 the sheer volume of sojs came into play. 
  
  However, trading and obtaining items through various means is not the only facit to gameplay in 
 Diablo II, making the most efficient character possible was also one of my favorite activities. 
 Once in a while I would find an item and say, "wow that'd be great with a low level character" 
 or something to that effect wether it be a low level char. or a character with certian items and 
 specific abilities. This then led me to make a chart of items and stages throughout the evolution 
 of a character where that item would come into play, and thus making the character very strong 
 at a low level. Low levels, 1-24, are usually levels that require the most work until level 70-75 
 is reached, depending on the character. If you're lucky, you can find a game that has a bunch of 
 people committed to leveling up at lower levels, however if you cannot, you must work by yourself 
 or with a few friends, and it does become a lot of work. My first character hit a wall at level 
 24, since I had no idea how to plan a character, my Paladin died a very slow death since I just 
 stopped playing him (he really sucked) . 
  
  If you're planning on making a strong character to do runs for other characters (leveling up on 
 steriods) , you really have to put your skill points in the right spots... putting 3 or 4 points 
 in scattered locations is going to make your character hit a wall where it cannot kill enemies 
 since it isnt strong in a specific area. You've gotta look at the skill tree, use online apps to 
 see what damage will be done with certian points on each skill, and exercise self control through 
 low levels, since it gets tough to be looking at 15 available skill points and know that you cant 
 put them to good use... this is where the low level equipment comes into play. 
  
  All in all, this game made me hate myself for playing video games, since I played it far more than 
 it needs to be played (23 hours in one day once... bad idea) . So i eventually took a knife to my 
 CD, which is required for play, and didnt bother with cracks or other stuff like that to play without 
 the CD.... uninstalled, and that was that.... Untill a few weeks ago when I started wanting to play 
 Diablo II again... weird that a game could make you want to play it even if you dont own the game. 
 It just goes to show that this game will most likely continue to flourish and people continue to 
 be addicted to it, heck i might even help out Blizzard by bying the game again, who knows. 
  
  Time spent playing D2: 1 year @ 5-6 (min 1 max 23) hrs per day
  Highest level character: 
 Sorcceres level 93
  Fastest level reached: Sorcceres level 76 in 8 days (during the school year no less)
  Most hated 
 memory: getting scammed out of a bonesnap maul (lol)
  Best item found: Stone of Jordan / Jah Rune
  Most sojs at one time: 43
  Account name: Draco_Maddnes
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  You should defineltly buy this game. Maby the single player mode may suck ass but its the Multiplayer 
 mode that defines this game. The moment you go online you realize the potential this game has. 
 you will get addicted immedietly. There are some hardcore fans that actually buy items instead 
 of just getting the drops from bosses. The game never gets boring even though you have to run through 
 same levels on 3 differenent difficultys. You will get lost in the online play of this game and 
 you may want to never stop playing. You should buy this game now. Even though this game is pretty 
 old. The grpahics arent what i call good but decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig234
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 31, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I'm reviewing this game years after it came out and I started playing it.
  
  I'm a casual D2 player; I've chosen to only play the first two difficulty settings, and have only 
 one character above the 30's.
  
  The game itself is analogous to a very fun version of being a rat pressing a button for a reward. 
 The great orchestral backround music, the engaging gameplay (click click click use certain strategy 
 and skills repeat thousands of times) , the good-looking graphics as you hunt the exotic creatures 
 in colorful, moody locations - it all adds up to one of, if not the, most replayable games ever 
 made. There's a reason its servers are still packed years later.
  
  One of the good/bad replayability features is simply the deeply designed loot system, where many 
 ordinary items are useful for things such as crafting or 'runewords', in addition to the rare, 
 armots sets, and unique items you can find of varying levels, as well as the aforementioned runewords.
 
  
  The addiction of doing 'runs' for equipment hoping to get the rare runes, or other items, knowing 
 they drop once in thousands of runs, is strong.
  
  No one gameplay feature stands out as 'the feature' - it's a great package for pulling you into 
 playing more, the potato chip feature (can't eat just one) .
  
  The basics - I liked the barbarian story and approach. The expansion adds a bit of a neat story, 
 with the poor barbarians; you see the story better than in the previous Diablos, although in any 
 Diablo games the story is more prettiness than substance. It adds some nice new environments, including 
 ice, and some new variations, such as the battle to defeat three bosses at once, no leaving for 
 heals and such.
  
  All in all, the game having the best replayability of about any title I can think of, MMORPG's 
 arguably excepted, makes the title deserve a far higher rating than the 8.2 Gamespot selected. 
 The design is just really well balnced, with plenty of complicated choices, with the enhancements 
 to the skill trees, et. The two new classes, assassin and druid, are perhaps the most distinctive; 
 and each has wildly varying builds.
  
  I made an assassin who doesn't melee much, but instead just throws traps down to kill things, and 
 makes a 'clone' who melees.
  
  Downsides to the game: first, the 'minor': the shallowness of the RPG type elements; NPC's are 
 pretty much just for game functions.
  
  Also, just the time investment needed to get many things in the game.
  
  Finally, the multiplayer 
 community is not so good. The basics are in place like an MMORPG; I played online chars to be able 
 to play with others, but the interaction is difficult to get beyond no-talking people running around, 
 often far from each other, or grabbing the loot. It discourages social interaction.
  
  The major:
  
  - You lose your online chars if you don't log on and refresh them every (60?) 
 days. There is no option for paying to keep them from expiring.
  
  - The battle. net system is harsh at making you lose all your equipped items, if you get killed 
 and the game is disconnected before you get them.
  
  After years of the service, just last night I had that happen again, on a stable cable modem connection 
 - the game was just 'interrupted' and lost.
  
  - I'd like to see an option for chars to redistribute their skill points, as they added in World 
 of Warcraft. There's no game balance issue against it.
  
  One more note - a plug for a great resource, www. diabloii. net. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawklee
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  This game is off the chain! It is one of the best RPG's I have played on the computer in years. 
 You get 7 choices of what character you want to be. There is a Barbarian, Necromancer, Assassin, 
 Amazon, Paladin, Druid, and a Sorceress. Im a level 85 Paladin. There tons of weapons and armor 
 for you to choose from. Battle Net (online play) is free. Also getting good stuff is not a big 
 problem. So I think every RPG gamer should buy this game.
  Also the game ain't that much money, I think the Battle Chest is like $40-$50 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphim591
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Diablo, the first title became my first ever favourite game. Almost the minute I started playing 
 it. Though I never spent anywhere near the amount of time I did with the II-nd title, I played 
 enough to know that this formulae was here to stay.
  
  I'm going to write the review about Diablo II, incuding the expansion, instead of the latter alone, 
 it's afterall a united game if you think about it.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  
  A few games get this score, but I don't even flinch when giving it to this game. Because anything 
 less would mean I'm denying the sleepless hours and several mice broken.
  
  The gameplay is so simple, that it just grabs you by the throat and doesn't let go. It rewards 
 you, constantly - and keeps you clued to the screen as you anxiously wait for the next award for 
 clicking another 100 baddies to death.
  
  There's nothing negative to be said that isn't completely overcome by the positive. Though maybe 
 only a couple of things. 
  The dark and spooky dungeons are gone, and this game doesn't recapture that feeling from the previous 
 title. You no longer feel alone at all times and while that can be a good thing, it isn't unique 
 anymore.
  Maybe this is the type of game where you really are meant to be alone at all times or if with anyone 
 at all, a friend beside you sitting a few feet away behind another computer.
  
  One of the things to annoy me, but which still get's easily crushed by all the positive is the 
 saving process.
  When you save, all the monsters are reborn - but if you get to a waypoint you can save, load and 
 continue on without a problem.
  Backtracking in this game is rare, but still - recreating all the monsters you have killed is overdoing 
 it a bit. Some berserkers might even get a small cheat from it. Kill all the baddies, save - and 
 kill them all again.
  
  A save whenever you like would have been a better option. Or atleast don't resurrect the creatures.
 
  I also didn't like having to get my corpse from the middle of an army if I did happen to die... 
 many times I cheated by saving and exiting and then loading and getting my body from the town.
 
  
  Graphics - 7
  
  Dated, but the game is getting old - as I'm writing this review I can not give a higher score because 
 of the level of modern day graphics.
  But this game also needs nothing better to survive the ages. With the expansion you got the much 
 need resolution upgrade which easily gave the game years of additional lifetime.
  
  I you ask me, throw us a bone and give us an even greater resolution upgrade and take your time 
 with the next installment. I'll gladly wait for the III-rd edition if I have one of my favourite 
 games of all time running on my 19'' LCD screen.
  
  Sound - 8
  
  Hack and Slash, what do you expect. You hear metal against metal and blood being spilled. You mix 
 that with unique town themes and you have yourself a nice backing for all that killing.
  
  Diablo, the first title owns in this department. Even though it only had one town, the music was 
 awesome. I get chills just by remembering it. Granted, this game also brings us the music of Tristam, 
 but only for a short time...
  
  Value - 10
  
  You get to hack, slash and do if again and again until you reach a higher difficulty setting and 
 you can start all over again. And 7 classes and atleast 2 completely different skill tree choices 
 for them all... you'll be busy for a while.
  
  Tilt - 10
  
  This game rocks on so many levels, it's just spooky. Many dismiss the game because it's so simple, 
 and because it doesn't seem to have all that many elements.
  So what? What it does have, it has perfected. I'd much rather play a game that has the best single 
 element gameplay, than a game that has a dozen which all blow...
  
  The Expansion adds a fifth act and a final boss. Also two new classes and a whole lot to go with 
 them. New artifacts, all all kind of items. Too many to even mention. Just expect to see a ton 
 more with this exp.
  I must say, that few expansions manage to practically double the content. This exp. is one of them. 
 The new act is definitely the longest and most detailed, not only by graphics but by design and 
 variety.
  
  Whether you're a casual gamer or a serious one. If you need a game that will entertain you with 
 minimal need for thinking, than this is for you. Not every game has to have you bursting those 
 two braincells you have left from playing the last Civ game... this is plain old fun.
  
  Just remember to buy a spare mouse, you'll need it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife145
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 29, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  The game really made the original Diablo 2, continue more. That's why this game is a great game. 
 Diablo II: LoD is just an one act longer to the original Diablo II, which made it more fun! The 
 expansion set also had new features.... such as new weapons, new maps, and new characters. The two 
 new characters would be the Assassin (a girl) and the Druid (a boy) ..... as usual, these 2 new characters 
 have different types of skills. Now, the expansion set added 2 new characters, allowing players 
 to use at least 7 characters. In all they are, the Paladin, the Barbarian, the Amazon, the Necromancer, 
 the Sorcerer, the Assassin, and the Druid.
  
  In the original Diablo 2, the 2 brothers, Diablo and Mephisto were defeated. But now, their last 
 brother, Baal now takes over and tries to put the world with evil and demons. So your mission is 
 to go through maps and areas so that you can find Baal and defeat him. 
  
  The story is so cool because The 3 Brothers are trying to take over the world with evil. That's 
 what I like about Diablo 2.
  
  This expansion set seriously made Diablo 2 a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billypooped
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 28, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  The game was one of the best games i have ever played in my whole life. I liked how you can playit 
 over the internet//network or single player. I like how they had the secret cow level. The game was 
 tough in some areas if you were'nt high enough level. My highest level i have gotten ever was 95 
 barbarian. His name was Gar-Gor. I recommend this game to any 1 that enjoys endless hours of killing 
 and doing quests. I like the npc's and the creatures werent to bad either. It is a real fun game. It 
 is time consuming tho so dont make to many plans while you play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Kaliaver
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 28, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  1. Diablo 2: Lord of Destruction (or Diablo 2 LoD) is the continuation (expansion) of the diablo 
 story. It brings everything back and much, much more that you should be dying to see and play. 
 
  
  2. Since Diablo 2: LoD is an expansion to Diablo 2 it doesnt bring improved graphics or a whole 
 new feel to the game, but it does make the game much easier, longer, and just more fun to play 
 (even though it didnt seem possible) .
  
  3. Diablo 2: LoDs story starts right up from where the last story ended. You defeated Diablo and 
 became an extremely powerful hero through doing so. Now though you are to start another quest and 
 that is to find and defeat Diablos second brother Baal. Through the snowy lands of the barbarian 
 highlands and icy caves you will encounter much new and strengthened resistance. This is called 
 Act (or chapter) 5 and of which offers many new enemies and new quests to further your journey. 
 Not only is the new Act 5 snowy, but it also is infested with enemies, which means quests. You 
 start off having to kill the Overseer who is on top of a hill laying siege to the city. It wont 
 be a breeze getting to him either. For this act isnt easy one bit, but it does give you more experience 
 then earlier acts even at your high level. After that first quest you will be wishing you were 
 back in Act 1 fighting zombies. With this new act to be played in you will be able to use two brand 
 new characters (see paragraph 5 for more info) . Now even with the new creatures, quests, and additions 
 made in Diablo 2: LoD it still lets you play through it with your old Diablo 2 characters and farther 
 their experience and level. 
  
  4. Even with the new story, enemies, characters, and more quests there is still more. 
  
  5. 
 Diablo 2: LoD doesnt just add new things; it also fixed and revamped old things. As an example 
 that old shabby stash your were given has now been doubled for more space and more money. Even 
 though you can play as your old characters it may take some time before even playing Act 5 since 
 you can choose to be two new characters. These new characters are the Druid and Assassin. The Druid 
 uses his nature and shape shifting powers to demolish all of Baals minions. If he either chooses 
 to shape shift as a werewolf or werebear, or even use he nature powers to raise an army of animals 
 or powerful spells, he will destroy all evil in his path. The Assassin who is the third female 
 character is a martial arts and trap user. She can either use boosting spells to aid her in battle 
 with her attacks then kill her enemies with a deadly finishing move, or spring some traps in a 
 room and see her enemies drop like flies. So with the addition of two new characters it will make 
 a total of seven playable characters to choose. But you wont be alone since you can also have 
 a mercenary at your side. The new addition and fixes to the mercenaries is being able to resurrect 
 them and equipment weapons and armor to better them for battle. Also now with a new mercenary, 
 being a barbarian warrior he is one of the strongest unequipped mercenaries to date. So if youre 
 starting new to the Diablo 2 game or have played for many years you will still find something to 
 like with this expansions new features.
  
  6. The sound hasnt had much improvement, but with the new expansion it has brought many new sounds 
 to the game. It came through enemys cries, new weapon and spell sounds, and even the new characters 
 voices. Even with these new sounds they dont add much to really go crazy about. At least you wont 
 always listen to twenty firewalls being sprung in one minute, now you can listen to twenty fire 
 traps being dropped by the assassin. Even with the not so amazing sounds the game makes it up for 
 almost everything else.
  
  7. The graphics of Diablo 2: LoD havent improved since it is only an expansion. Yet there is still 
 something you will like with the 2D graphics in the snowy highlands of the barbarian lands. Also 
 with the new spells, traps, and enemies you wont notice that the graphics really havent changed 
 while being blown away with the action.
  
  8. The gameplay is one of the most outstanding aspects of the diablo games. With its fast action 
 and spell to melee combat the fighting almost never gets old. Plus with the new enemies and characters 
 it all changes too. Now you must formulate new strategies not only battling Baals minions, but 
 also in PvP while fighting anyone not cheating. The gameplay also kicks into high gear while fighting 
 Baal. He has moves and spells that have never been seen in the game and he can be extremely hard 
 if you dont have the right spells or team at your side.
  
  9. The multiplayer really hasnt improved too much from the last game except now you can play with 
 the new characters and go through a whole new act with friends. It still holds up to eight people 
 and you can PvP. Now though you can form even more strategies since you have the druid and his 
 support creatures and the assassins traps. By creating these new strategies it almost seems like 
 a whole new game.
  
  10. Truly Diablo 2 is a classic old-school game and the expansion Diablo 2: LoD keeps it going. 
 This expansion scores high for all the needed improvements and being in my opinion one of the best 
 expansions to ever be released. Plus this game will now keep you playing until you have no more 
 fingers left, and you will still be wanting to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DartK
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 28, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 Lord of Destruction revitalizes the series of Diablo and brings with it some good additions 
 and no downsides. Most noticably is probably the two different classes of the assassin and the 
 druid and these are great additions to the gameplay. The assassin is the more mysterious type of 
 characters while the druid is a character that can control the ferocious elements of nature. Another 
 addition is the added types of weapons and armor and class-specific items. For people who like 
 the Role-Playing genre or maybe the Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Genre would greatly 
 appreciate this game. This game is a must-play for those who liked the Diablo series so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunaticsynapse
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those game's that will just suck you right in. Playing through single-player or 
 LAN is a lot of fun, but unless you have a LOT of patience you won't really get a taste for what 
 the game is all about. Equipment.... equipment, equipment, equipment. So much versatility in equipment. 
 So many items to find. If you're a collector-type, you found heaven. Online it is all about the 
 commerce. Any item you want you can get with patience. Trade up! Even now the graphics are pleasing 
 to the eye, as with the sound (to the ear even) . Doesn't get better for free online gameplay, period. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Here is the expansion to Diablo II. It adds a whole new act, more set unique and elite items, and 
 two new characters to choose from.
  
  If you have Diablo II, you probably want to get this, considering most people I would imagine have 
 it on Blizzard. net.
  
  Not much has changed sadly, the graphics are still as mundane as they were in Diablo II, and the 
 sound hasn't really gotten an update. It just added new material, not upgraded the old. But of 
 course, that's what all Blizzard expansions do, just look at 'Beyond the Dark Portal.'
  
  Like Diablo II, LoD would be best played multi-player with a few of your buddies, or a few strangers 
 that you know won't rip you off.
  
  There really isn't much more to say, since it is basically Diablo II all over again, but with one 
 more act tacked on, and two more characters. Personally, I was a bit disappointed, but that's just 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butters121
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a very addictive game. I love this game, but i recommend that no one starts playing it. 
 Cause once you start YOU AINT GONNA QUIT. I could hardly lure my nose out of its great multiplayer 
 online mode into my studies, but gladly, i got A/Bs in school. Trust me, if you start this game, 
 you cant play it just in its single player mode. You got too try out battle. net. Also a great thing 
 is all the character varieties. Druids, Assasins, Necros, Paladins!! You can be practically anyone 
 you want to be. This game is truly the one online game you are looking for. Other simiilar online 
 games include World of Warcraft, and Star Craft. Also my favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antraxspore
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I've just finished the game on the last difficulty, wow I dont know what to say but still after 
 5 years this game is excelent, I ended the game with my Assassin level 93 and since a friend told 
 me not to learn every ability only the necesary to be able to max your last abilities out, I did 
 so and oh man, Shadow master level 20 +2, Diablo and Bale weren't big deals. Where I had problems 
 was before getting to Bale when he invoques the mosters of all 5 acts.
  
  I also played a lot of multiplayer with my bro Assassin with Sorceress is a invecible team. 
 
  
  So what are u waiting for? If you are a RPG lover, you wont regret Diablo2 and LoD, still 5 years 
 after its release I still like and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyChemist
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 16, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  (reviewed as Diablo II and Diablo II: Lord of Destruction)
  
  This has to be one of the most absorbing an impressive action-adventure games I've ever played! 
 The interface is simple and intuitive, especially the mouse control. Several different classes 
 of character, each with totally unique skills guarantees a game to suit every personality of gamer, 
 and a different skill-tree for each class means you can further customise your character to your 
 style of gaming.
  
  The game itself starts in a rogue camp that your character has ended up in with minimal accessories 
 and no money. After a little chat with the npc's your character is ready to head out into his/her 
 first quest. After leaving the safety of the encampment you will be attacked by monsters of varied 
 shape and size, with vastly different attributes and tactics whom you must defeat. This is where 
 the main thrust of the action takes place - in the open battling enemies left right and centre, 
 just having fun slaughtering things, picking up rewards and completing quests... I leave you to 
 discover the intricacies of such things though :)
  
  Progression is swift and easy for a while, with an innovative and superbly thought-out levelling 
 system that does Blizzard credit - attribute points are awarded each level, which can be dished 
 out as you see fit to different attributes, and a single, glorious skill point can be added (or 
 hoarded, depending on your plan for your character) to a skill of your choice in the skill tree. 
 A little (or an awful lot of) thought should be put into these skill points because once they are 
 there, they stay. A truly excellent system.
  
  After a while battling monsters, donning fallen armour, equipping better weapons and gathering 
 gold and goodies, you'll be compelled to return to the encampment to unburden yourself of such 
 trinkets and find out how much gold you've earned in your exploits. Thankfully, with the aid of 
 a small scroll, you can generate a two-way portal to the encampment where you can trade, heal, 
 gamble and collect any reward due (some quests are rewarded, some continue the story... some serve 
 both purposes) for your quests. You may spend plenty of time going round, upgrading your equipment 
 and generally improving your character.
  
  As the game progresses, runes and gems are dropped by fallen monsters - these can be placed in 
 special weapons that have sockets to enhance player's abilities. Certain combinations bestow bonuses 
 beyond the sum of their parts, with impressive results. As you progress through the game, better 
 generations of weapons appear, as do better items. Even after the game appears to have finished, 
 you can export your character to the next-higher difficulty where the adventure continues! This 
 sounds like a cheap way to extend playability, but in this case it is so well thought-out it's 
 fantastic. Rather than slaughtering your way through the first Act, this time it's as much of a 
 challenge as the last, and it gets better with more damage being done to even more powerful enemies. 
 Great fun!
  
  The graphics in this game are very appropriate to the game type, and, while nicely enhancing the 
 game, in no way is gameplay affected by graphics - where your character can and can't move is clear, 
 and there is no trade-off between gameplay and graphics. I consider these graphics to be perfect.
 
  
  The sound is nicely done as well... stereo sound is used to good effect and the sounds of spells, 
 chickens squawking under your feet and monsters around you are done very well - I can't find fault.
 
  
  This game should be part of any gamer claiming to be a fan of first-person-anything games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ribicaman
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 15, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 - Lord of Destruction is an expansion pack for the Diablo 2 original game ( which i reviewed 
 too ) , and it really does everything that an expansion should do.
  
  The expansion gives you a whole set of new things - starting from new weapons, and new quests to 
 new waypoints and new areas.
  Also the game gives you the option to insert only the expansion disk in order to play it. So - 
 umm - In other news...
  
  Diablo 2 - Lord of destruction may not add SO MUCH things that everyone expects, buuut, It still 
 does add up a truck load of stuff. 
  Like and example : Where the hell are you gonna find an - eerrrr... - ,, Gladious Long Sword of 
 Quick Veneganse ( Socketed - 3 ) '' Ha?
  
  Anyway, Diablo 2 lord bla bla is one of the best expansions i have seen ( and played ) ( and finished 
 ) for a long, long time.
  
  Oh Yea! I forgot! The expansion also has awesome multiplayer features that I tried out, and ruined 
 my computer, and then cried, but what the heck.
  
  ,, There is no Hope. Only dissapointment.'' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archvile700
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  this is by far and away the best game of all time. and im not just talking about RPG's, im talking 
 about games in general. i have been playing diablo ever since the first one came out for windows 
 95. ever since LOD came out back in 2001, i have quit playing the game several times and have come 
 back to it several times. if you added up all the hours ive played, it would probably equal to 
 about 5 months of 24 hour non stop play. the best game ever. for its time, graphics are great. 
 even now the sounds are incredible. has infinite replay value, which is the most important thing 
 in my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii26
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  This expansion fixed everything that was wrong with Diablo 2. 
  First, the expansion adds 2 new characters. A druid and an assassin which is awesome. That means 
 new characters to try and get awesome stuff for and make them "1337", hahaha. 
  Ok yeah sorry. Anyways, in the expansion they also add all these new rune words, weapons, and how 
 leveling works. Everything has pretty much changed so leveling isn't the same anymore. You don't 
 get the same amount of levels from ancients, and leveling is very specific now. 
  Also, they have it now that when you level up your moves, they add attributes to your other moves. 
 Like, fireball adds damage to meteor and meteor adds damage to fireball. Stuff like that..
  The expansion adds so many more things to the expansion and you can't miss this. It's definitely 
 worth it and it'll get you hooked on diablo again if you ever fell out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcloudestine
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Diablo is my heart:
  For all that have seen and come short of the glory of God, to follow not God but Mormon, it is 
 a trilogy here, either you
  -take your eyes of the money and wait on God 
  -or die trying to make money walking away from God's light
  -or join the demons in their bloody 
 thirst for flesh and power and money.
  
  The demons will hate you for the light in you, you are between the devil and the deep blue sea 
 here, get eaten up or die trying to fight them. It is doom for Quake, you are surrounded at all 
 angles. You only have time not your life on your side, because you are dead in their site if you 
 dare fight against them and they are ready to burry you in their stomach, to rotten **** in the 
 guther.
  
  Diablo is Jesus Christ, he is the only one of all lost in this darkness of time to stand up to 
 the task of eliminating eye saws in that of his eyes, his apple. Encounters on the way are prayers 
 and supplications of those in torments and under these demons of age and time.
  
  Diablo is holy, like the sun, you have to keep burning to enlighten your path in this darkness 
 of time. To burn here means to keep killing until all demons are gone dead. To keep you holy and 
 free of this demons are lots of gifts of weaponery and tokens to burn with.
  
  Diablo is God, like the biblical floods of waters of Noah's, it is the reclamation of all that 
 was lost to that which is and was lost by whom who owns it, by the sword of hatred and vengeance, 
 and those on bord are at the mercy of the demons.
  
  "May God have mercy on Joseph if he betrays Him and mercy on Israel if it says it doesn't know 
 Him" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 7, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  Although there is no a big difference between this game and its predecessor, this expansion complete 
 and improve the game, and make of it the better universal standard to all the games of this kind. 
 Practically it doesn't have any defect, it's incredibly addictive, and just a few games will gave 
 you too many hours of entertainment, all this to become the greatest warrior.
  
  The game doesn't' have incredible graphics, but this isn't necessary, remember how many games with 
 incredible graphics results in very bored games, so this doesn't take of merit to the game. Just 
 I said that the graphics are as good as the game require it to appreciate the game.
  
  The sounds and FX are very good, those parts where you are attacked by several enemies and you 
 start making powers and abilities reflect it. The music is great, you really feels the emotions 
 when a strong enemy comes to you.
  
  The playmode is exceptional, in the beginning of the game you almost only use the mouse, but as 
 you learn abilities you'll need to use all your fingers in both hands, in order to be as fast as 
 you can to defend your self and to attack with all your powers.
  
  All characters have their own abilities and guns. According to that it's very important how do 
 you increase your status of strength, resistance, etc. With each one of them you'll develop you 
 own strategy of combat, it's complete different to play with the druid or to play with the barbarian. 
 Guns in game are the best, you have an infinity of different guns, but some times you'll pray to 
 all gods to find a more power gun or armor in order to be able to defeat Diablo or Baal.
  
  The difficulty in game is perfect; anybody can finish the game in normal difficulty, but only a 
 few will end it in nightmare. But if you want to finish it in Inferno mode you sould be the master 
 of masters with that character and have a superultramegapowerful gun and an indestructible armor. 
 Maybe the only one aspect in the game that make it tired is the fact that some times you'll need 
 to play many hours to find an appropriate gun or armor to defeat some of the bosses that you can 
 find here.
  
  The game is almost unsurpassable; It will mark the standard for all the future games of this kind.
 
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 11, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Diablo II was an okay sequel to Diablo, but it lacked the soul of the original. Despite this I 
 gave the expansion a chance, and as I should have expected it was just more of the same.
  
  LoD is set not long after Diablo II. Your character from Diablo II has pursued Baal; the last of 
 the three prime evils across the world to the Barbarian Highlands. Over the course of one act you 
 fight through legions of Baal's creatures to finally slay the demon himself.
  
  As expected the gameplay in LoD is the exact same thing present in Diablo II. Granted there are 
 some minor changes such as independant barbarians who can occasionally be found fighting Baal's 
 forces outside of town; you won't find many differences between Diablo II and LoD. LoD does add 
 two new classes to Diablo II's original five, however; the Assassin and the Druid each with its 
 own unique skill tree. Though the Druid feels more like a rehash of the Necromancer at times.
 
  
  The graphics are the same, but the music has taken a slight change of course. Ultimately the music 
 is still forgettable, but now it sounds more like something out of a World War II movie. I can't 
 really say that there is any point to this change, but I suppose it doesn't matter.
  
  Lord of Destruction is just an expansion, so I give it credit for adding as much as it does. Unfortunately 
 it doesn't do enough to make Diablo II any better, in my opinion. If you didn't like Diablo II 
 chances are LoD won't change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: upupupup
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  really i cant stop so go get it or ill bite ur head off. well i got it about 2 years ago and it 
 was fun from the start u feel compelled to get better and better first is new lvls then it gear 
 and then its starts over when u make another character and u start again with the urge to do more 
 ive gone days withough out food or any bodily function and it stil trake MAJOR threats from my 
 parents to get me to stop GO GET IT!!! its fun until u are at the point where u hvae everything 
 and are better than every one else and then u stop but then a month later ur back on going for 
 it again the replay value is better than any other game ive played AMAZING and it is amazing with 
 the online play well really thats the only place to play it but u only need a simple dial up conn. 
 to play so u have no reason to not get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NamelessProphet
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 1, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  After the disappointment of the Hellfire expansion pack for Diablo 1 I was a bit warey about picking 
 up Lord of Destruction, but after a couple years of playing it I can no longer imagine Diablo 2 
 without it.
  
  LoD brings in two new character classes, Druid and Assasin, plus another entire act to play. With 
 full support on Battle. net this is one expansion pack that you can't do without. 
  
  The two new characters and a bit more variety to the game, which was much needed after hundreds 
 of hours of playing. Both well designed they both offer enough options that by the end of the game 
 you could have 2 druids or 2 assassins that seem like they arent even the same character class.
 
  
  The addition of Act 5 also added in many new monsters and a new final boss that is worthy of the 
 title Lord of Destruction. The new quests add many useful new bonuses and will not disappoint. 
 To put it simply it won't take long before Act 5 becomes your favorite act and where you spend 
 all of your time playing.
  
  Online play on Battle. net is just as good as always, and its still free. Without a doubt one of 
 the best online communitys out there. If you want to play LoD, get yourself on Battle. net.
  
  Lastly I would just like to say thank you Blizzard for finally increasing the size of the stash, 
 finally I have more room to keep all my stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Killer_Dan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Diablo II LOD is a great PC game that ive been playing for 4 years now, and im still not tired 
 of it. It is a bit complicated at first since there are so many diff items and wepons, quests, 
 rune combinations etc, but its extremely addincting right off the start.
  
  the option of different caracters and the fact that u can all of them if u wish make this game 
 fun to beat over and over, and they are all different so u must use different strategies. i also 
 like the fact that ur caracters are customised by u as u play and getting to chose ur skills is 
 great, so u can use different weps and combinations etc...
  
  I love this PC game i and i mostly play on battle. net but single player is fun too. The fact that 
 u can still play with caracters after u beet the game is swell. also that once u beet it u can 
 move on to the next difficulty and restart, find better items and grow ur l v l is great. the ability 
 to go hostile and battle other plays online is also a feature that i find quite enjoyable all in 
 all this is a great game and is a must have fun gamers 
  
  HungOverSpartan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 04l27
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  There are 5 characters Sorceress, Paladin, Barbarian, Necromancer, and Amazon and in LOD there 
 are 7 with the addition of the Assassin, and Druid.
  Each character has unique skills, these are usually one of the defining traits of Diablo 2 and 
 LOD. These are what your characters really need or the game will just be plain unbeatable. Each 
 character has 30 different skills and all unique to each class such as Shapeshifting or Elemental 
 Magic, or even Curses.
  
  This is the next part of Diablo 1 and Diablo 2 and I think you should own this game to your game 
 collection
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 22, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  My college roommate had the original Diablo. He enjoyed it; I was an addict. Diablo II is one of 
 those rare cases where a game sequel improves on all the finest aspects of the original title. 
 Diablo II is one of the greatest games of all time, no doubt.
  
  Diablo II starts you off a pathetic weakling, and builds you to an unbelievable champion through 
 an excedingly long journey which always gives you reward for your destruction. Every character 
 plays unique, in skills, items, gameplay, appearance, you name it. Notice I didn't say every character 
 "class". Every single name I have contemplated over these years has delivered a unique experience.
 
  
  Diablo II is not merely a character builder, though it satisfies on that level to no end. The vanquish 
 of Baal in Lord of Destruction, from the Rogue Camp to the World Stone Keep feeds a guilty bloodlust 
 in the manner it serves the heroes scores of foes and screams of pain as they inevitably fall.
 
  
  The varied abilities and player "builds" in Diablo underscore the surprising reality that most 
 all of them provide a satisfying game experience.
  
  Outstanding:
  
  - Several interesting character classes; every one of them a great experience.
  - An incredible 
 number of items that can make you a proud owner.
  - Character and item scaling are the best I've ever played. Every level gives a significant bonus, 
 and there are 99 of them.
  - There are several ways to approach Diablo II: player versus player, cooperatively, maliciously, 
 solo, rush, mule, magic find, without gifts from others, or with.
  - The sounds of your enemies dying adds immensely to the experience of playing Diablo. If GameSpot 
 allowed, I'd give Sound an 11.
  
  Mediocre:
  
  - Oblivion has several generations better graphics, and gives new meaning to "depth of play" 
 
  
  - Call of Duty 2 feeds bloodlust, puts battle in your ears, and has several generations better 
 graphics.
  
  - There are still ways I could play Diablo II that I haven't yet. 
  
  - Phantasy Star II feels more nostalgic.
  
  - Legend of Zelda is more legendary.
  
  Poor:
 
  
  Mediocre was a joke, if you didn't catch that. This is one of the greatest games of all time. There 
 is nothing poor about it. If they make another one and keep true to the formula, it will sell 1 
 gazillion copies and everyone will be slobbering all over it and writing up guides for it on their 
 blogs for years. Hell, if I made a game, I would try to make it like Diablo II Lord of Destruction.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khidhir
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  In Diablo 2: Lord Of Destruction, you get to play as Barbarian eg ( my favorite) , Amazon, Assasin, 
 Druid, Sorceress, Necromancer and Paladin to destroy the Lord Of Destruction, Baal. He uses Tal 
 Rasha's body to stop us from entering the world soulstone. Tyreal, an Archangel depend on us to 
 kill the Lord Of Destruction. This game has not many new stuffs. To me its the old same thing.
 
  
  The gameplay is superb and easily controled. Coz' were only use mouse often. Its highly addictive 
 and fun. The graphic is cartoonic and its not gothic unlike the game Diablo, still it has cool 
 graphic. I've played this game about ten times because it has value. Eventhough i've played this 
 game ten times. I still love this game and doesn't feel any sense of boredom.
  
  Its easy and fun. It should no be missed.
  
  
  HAIL TO THE CREATORS OF THIS GAME.............
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Although there is no a big difference between this game and its predecessor, this expansion complete 
 and improve the game, and make of it the better universal standard to all the games of this kind. 
 Practically it doesn't have any defect, it's incredibly addictive, and just a few games will gave 
 you too many hours of entertainment, all this to become the greatest warrior.
  
  The game doesn't' have incredible graphics, but this isn't necessary, remember how many games with 
 incredible graphics results in very bored games, so this doesn't take of merit to the game. Just 
 I said that the graphics are as good as the game require it to appreciate the game.
  
  The sounds and FX are very good, those parts where you are attacked by several enemies and you 
 start making powers and abilities reflect it. The music is great, you really feels the emotions 
 when a strong enemy comes to you.
  
  The playmode is exceptional, in the beginning of the game you almost only use the mouse, but as 
 you learn abilities you'll need to use all your fingers in both hands, in order to be as fast as 
 you can to defend your self and to attack with all your powers.
  
  All characters have their own abilities and guns. According to that it's very important how do 
 you increase your status of strength, resistance, etc. With each one of them you'll develop you 
 own strategy of combat, it's complete different to play with the druid or to play with the barbarian. 
 Guns in game are the best, you have an infinity of different guns, but some times you'll pray to 
 all gods to find a more power gun or armor in order to be able to defeat Diablo or Baal.
  
  The difficulty in game is perfect; anybody can finish the game in normal difficulty, but only a 
 few will end it in nightmare. But if you want to finish it in Inferno mode you sould be the master 
 of masters with that character and have a superultramegapowerful gun and an indestructible armor. 
 Maybe the only one aspect in the game that make it tired is the fact that some times you'll need 
 to play many hours to find an appropriate gun or armor to defeat some of the bosses that you can 
 find here.
  
  The game is almost unsurpassable; It will mark the standard for all the future games of this kind. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosGames
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  In truth, I never played an RPG before Diablo 2. In my old country, this was ones of the biggest 
 games there (Along with Warcraft 3, Starcraft and Counterstrike. Try to guess what country) . I 
 never though RPG games whould be that fun, I never liked other ones. I always through that they 
 where too complex and too advanced for me, I would always play a simple FPS or strategy game, because 
 back then things where simple. Then I played Diablo 2 and though, Wow! What a simple context. It 
 was so simple to play through that i had a revelation on my gaming attitude.
  
  Although Diablo 2 wasn't the easiest game, I do die alot, but I was still chalanged to keep playing. 
 The other thing I enjoy about the Diablo series is its story. Blizzard's stories for its games 
 are what i admire about the company and its games. I love a good story in a game (Halo, Starcraft, 
 Command & Conquer Red Alert 2) . Besides that, I was never much of a fantasy buff. That changed 
 when i played Warcraft 3 and Diablo 2. I really don't like conventional fantasy stuff with dragons, 
 knights and kings. Warcraft introduced me to orcs, and Diablo introduced me to demons from hell. 
 Bliss.
  
  Then came Lord of Destruction. Blizzard has a nack for making expansions that make the games much 
 better. This is no exeption. Like Brood War, the expantion changed the game for me, making it totaly 
 new and extended the gamplay beyond the original, both in singleplayer and multiplayer. What a 
 game. Although I am not even half way through the whole game in the multiplayer side, I am prompted 
 to keep going.
  
  Buy this game if you haven't allready and I'll see you on Battle. Net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FronzenShock987
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  Well duh everyone knows that this is one of best RPG game for the PC. Well here's what I think 
 of Diablo II: LOD:
  
  This game is mostly about a hero ( that you've selected ) who goes off in an world of fantasy, 
 killing Demons, and Undeads. Giving your character weapons, armors, shields, helmets, rings, amulets, 
 and sashes. Leveling your hero up from 1-99. Giving your character stats such as: Strength, Defensive, 
 Health ( Stamina ) , and Mana. Giving your character, spells for more power damage or more defensive. 
 But you will need Diablo II to buy this game you know. This game requires the Diablo II Disk and 
 the Diablo II: LOD Disk.
  
  Who knows maybe this is the best RPG game for the PC. Maybe not. Now I'm going to rewrite my thoughts 
 in other words:
  
  Gameplay: Fun and exciting. Killing off Demons, and Undeads.
  
  Graphics: Nice and smooth. Nice model of the characters.
  
  Sound: Town people sounds like 
 those Middle Kingdom people.
  
  Value: Worth, enough to buy it. Not really that expensive. About 49:99$ ( CD) .
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt: Overall, one of the best RPG games ever made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2: Lord of Destruction is a must have expansion for D2. It adds a great amount of quality 
 content that adds more story and areas to explore to the already great game. Be ready to get sucked 
 in further by the demons and hell that is trying to destroy the world. And blah blah, play and 
 find out.
  Besides that there really isnt all that much to say besides that its good. It doesnt change gfx 
 or sfx or nething like that. So basically just go get it if your getting D2 (which makes sense 
 because they almost always sell them in packs) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised they actually added a few more races, and another chapter. The monsters, and boards 
 were well laid out. The dificulty was raised. Full of more loot. The AI actually in this game was 
 horrible to start, and was not fixed. The graphics that I didn't explain for the primary release 
 was mediocre. The game adds more content than I imagined they would actually put into it. Adds 
 a couple more things to accomplish. I wish they did more to it atm. They just left it up to hang 
 and dry. I guess they had better games to attend to. Like Wow, and whatever else. Hope the rumors 
 are true about a new sequel to this great series. Still there are games much better than this now. 
 Hope they turn the tables soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosesunkist
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I waited a long time to get this game because I thought I wouldn't like it. But then I was looking 
 at the rack and thought "Eh, why not?", so I got it and the LoD expansion at the same time. Play 
 as much or as little as you like, and you'll still enjoy it.
  
  The user interface is pretty good. I like how big the life and mana status meters are. You can 
 see them without having to look for the tiny little bar that most games have. the only problem 
 is that the small player menu at the bottom is just that -small. Too many times have I accidentally 
 pressed the neighboring button, just because they were too close together. 
  
  Now gameplay! Hey, I'm happy as long as I can either shoot it, hack it with a giant sword, or throw 
 a fireball at it, I'm pretty well content. Here, I can do two of them (guns just wouldn't look 
 right in the hands of a barbarian or ice sorceress) . That is another great thing about this game, 
 you can customize your character as much as you like, developing the skills you want. I first played 
 as a barbarian and got bored with that kinda quick (like 3 months) , then went through as an ice 
 sorceress. Way more fun in my opinion. 
  
  Now the plot...... what can you expect? It is fun enough to not notice the lack of a deep, delving, 
 and intriguing plot. Just play it.
  
  The graphics are dated, but hey, you played Tetris 8 hours straight on the GameBoy too. Didn't 
 we all? I liked the graphics well enough to keep playing, and yes, I have stopped playing a few 
 games because the graphics were too excruciating to look at!
  
  I liked the multiplayer part of it. I hadn't really played online much before (damn dial-up) , but 
 it worked pretty well even at low speeds, not too much lag.
  
  After playing through another 4-5 months, I downloaded the Eastern Sun Mod. It changes a lot, cooler 
 items, more powerful items, and new items. It kinda made the game easier, but it was still very 
 fun. If you are still reading this review, then you should just go and get Diablo II. Yes, now. 
 Get out of your chair and go to the store. Go! Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Just when you thought Diablo 2 was the icing on the cake, along comes this sweet gem of an expansion 
 called Lord of Destruction. This basically takes over from the end of Diablo 2 with Bael on the 
 loose. 
  
  This game also includes 2 new character classes. The druid and the assassin. These 2 are by far 
 my favorite 2 character classes to use. With the traps, power moves, and abilities of the assassin 
 one can see why she is a crowd favorite. Then there is the druid, the power to summon creatures 
 like wolves, vines, and bears. He also shape shifts into a werewolf and at higher levels, a werebear. 
 
  
  The added "personalized" character only items really add a ton of depth to every single class, 
 and the fact that the treasure basically doubled is just insane. Say goodbye to your days and nights 
 with the original and now the expansion pack. You're life and soul belong to diablo.
  
  Outstanding expansion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caliban94
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game since its came out, i've mastered every character but I've finally 
 stopped playing ever since my accoutnt got hacked...
  
  Anyway, this has got to be one of the most addictvie role playing/ action game ever besides world 
 of warcraft. Plus, theres over 200,000 people that play online STILL!! and this game is 5 years 
 old!
  
  I love the characters, my favorite was the Amazon, I always have loved the bowers. But I loved 
 the most was the character skill tree. It was wwell put together,
  
  The shine of this story was the story. I wrote storys about this story for school reports because 
 it was that intersting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuckyClovers
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  This game has Stolen countless hours from many many people.... but its worth it Highly addictive 
 gameplay mixed with a variety of skills and equitment arrangements. Where this game really shines 
 is in its Multiplayer (Via Battle. Net) Mingling with many Playing with Plenty Dueling with Dozens 
 this all makes for a great great game experiance. But the flaws in this game are in the players 
 many people are hacking and trying to scam which may turn some new Players off of this terrific 
 game, but Blizzard is quick to come to the aid when this sort of thing arises. But many Charecter 
 builds come alike but you can tweak them with variey of Equiptment and tweaking of Attributes and 
 Skills can make many charecters Unique. But this game Is one of the best Pc games ever thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lopo2006
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  i don't nkow how to talk about this marvels game but i will say what i can say about it diablo 
 is on of the first RPG games in the world we must not talk serious action about this game too fast 
 if we see here it contains every thing about diablo 1 and maybe more in it's story if any one played 
 the revenant he will see that the game is amazing very beutefull and marvles
  it is the same of diablo 1 how it can get small score than it i will tell u how this game had come 
 to us in the time of bad bad grafics and games only for fun and small story in game play that's 
 why this game didn't had all the interest from every one.
  
  The game has maney characters and weapons that will make u can't use them all u will be able to 
 move with more than one character and the story is very good this things will help u play the game 
 with an good mode so go BUY it quick befor it ends from stores 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  LoD made the perfection of Diablo 2 an even better game. By adding additional classes, weapons, 
 gear and trinkets to the game, LoD is easily worth the price. Plus, LoD adds a 5th chapter to the 
 end of the game after the defeat of Diablo himself. The expansion also allows you to change the 
 display up to a whopping 800x600 resolution, up from the original's 640x480. I doubt you can purchase 
 this expansion on its own, but comes as a Battle Chest with the original as well as this expansion. 
 If you enjoyed the original, then don't waste time adding this to your collection and relive the 
 wonder that is the Diablo 2 world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Constantinus
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Diablo II and LoD for almost 4 years to date; for me, it was just one of those 
 games you could not put down. Until recently. The last update, the 1.11 patch did improve the game 
 greatly, but it also pretty much destroyed some of the more role-playing aspects of the game. 
 
  
  If a player wants to have any hope of surviving on Hell difficulty, then let him or her go down 
 to GameFaqs. com, and read about one of the "special" builds for his/her respective character. One 
 cannot design one's character anyway one so desires, and still be effective. Sadly, only "cookie-cutter" 
 builds discovered by one person, and imitated by thousands can survive in Hell, or even Acts III-V 
 in Nightmare. You may beg to differ with me on this, but I tell you that you will not make it in 
 Hell, Act I unless your character can do at least 1000 damage, which, in my opinion is already 
 a ridiculously high amount. Reaching that point needs not only good skills (for the melee characters, 
 but also exceptionally rare and expensive items) .
  
  The ability to train your character any way you like is an essential part of all role-playing games 
 with a skill-based system. Granted, making a Sorceress or Necromancer into a melee character is 
 often not such a good idea, but one should be able to invest in most of a character's skills, rather 
 than just increasing one and completely ignoring the others. It does pay to focus on a few key 
 skills, yes, but not at the expense of completely ignoring other, potentially powerful skills.
 
  
  The 1.11 patch did make the game more interesting, with the new "World Event," and "Chaos Tristam," 
 but at the cost of removing all individualism and uniqueness from character design. I personally 
 believe that individualism in character development is an important part of a role-playing game... 
 If all the characters were supposed to follow those narrowly defined paths, then why even bother 
 putting extra skills on the skill tree, other than to throw off novices? It saddens me to see the 
 game I once loved have changed so much for the better, and yet even more so for the worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethe_Demon19
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 and LOD are great games in which a character of the gamers choosing goes around each Act 
 and completes quests to near the prime quest of defeating Diablo and in LOD Bhaal. These are immersive 
 games which will lead every player hungry for more.
  
  There are 5 characters Sorceress, Paladin, Barbarian, Necromancer, and Amazon and in LOD there 
 are 7 with the addition of the Assassin, and Druid.
  Each character has unique skills, these are usually one of the defining traits of Diablo 2 and 
 LOD. These are what your characters really need or the game will just be plain unbeatable. Each 
 character has 30 different skills and all unique to each class such as Shapeshifting or Elemental 
 Magic, or even Curses.
  
  During the game there are uncountable items that you go through and many that are useless or some 
 that will be with you through the entire game.
  
  This game rocks and is a definite buy no matter anyone says.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimsonphire
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II was a great hack and slash RPG, but it had an element of strategy to creating your character 
 with the right balance of items, skill points and attributes. This makes for quite a challenge.
 
  
  The addition of the Lord of Destruction enhances the game completely adding to the possibilities 
 of item (s) and item creation as well as adding two more characters. This game will keep you attention 
 for a long time as you try to make the ultimate character.
  
  Of course like almost every Blizzard game, besides being highly addictive, they have a FREE on-line 
 battle. net mode. Where you can create and level your character alone or with friends/strangers. 
 This brings an exciting challenge to the game as well because the game will get harder the more 
 people are in the game you are. So having strong skills that do high damage becomes the ultimate 
 goal.
  
  This a must have for any Hack and Slash/RPG lover. It is less about listening to NPC's and more 
 about making friends and obtaining level 99. You will be addicted, very addicted. Be warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Words can hardly describe how much gamming joy the Diablo series has brought me. And I thought 
 Diablo II was perfect the addition of the expansion made normal DII feel like the transition from 
 DI to DII. 
  
  LOD (Lord of Destruction) is one of the largest expansion packs for any game I have seen. It adds 
 an entire new world and campaign, a vast array of new Items such as runes , rune words, and many 
 many MANY new unique and elite items. Also with recent patches it has added more than anyone could 
 imagine in this game with an infinate amount of ways to construct a character and play the game.
 
  
  Overall:
  Blizzard did a bang up job on this one! Two thumbs up and a very happy Diablo fanbase. Worth the 
 purchase and worth the time invested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 28, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  Lord of Destruction (LoD) makes D2 even better with 2 new characters (an Assassin which is totally 
 awesome and a Druid) and many improvements, which tweak the game to a superior level. Also, you 
 get an extra chapter in the single-player campaign. This new chapter is really worth the cost. 
 It simply closes the loop with the rest of the story and the graphics are astounding in this new 
 chapter. Also, LoD increase the replayability of the game which makes any D2 experienced player 
 jumps into the game one more time until Blizzard Studios amazes us with a new hack-and-slash game. 
 
  
  LoD shall be the baseline for any new hack-and-slash RPG games to hit the shelves.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virtuson
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  With the new additional classes that just plain kick ass, and the new quests and items, this game 
 is a must for any RPG fan. A little outdated, yes, but no less fun. And it insures that the game 
 will come cheap. Which is not all that necessary because I and most people i've meet have spread 
 it out and played so often it's just wasteful to pass it up. I've put in at least 22 or so hours 
 on my Lvl. 75 druid on single player. And my several high lvl characters on Multiplayer each! It's 
 just remarkable how this game ceases to get old. It's still good for a rainy day and as long as 
 it has a solid community, alwasy will be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Every now and then a game comes along that is so simple and addictive that it affects the way that 
 video games are made forever. Games like SimCity, Populous, Dune II, and Doom all changed the face 
 of computer gaming for years to come. Now Blizzard, the company that refined the real-time strategy 
 game to near perfection, has unleashed Diablo, a title that combines the elegant simplicity of 
 an action game and the addictive storyline of an adventure game with the personalization and exploratoration 
 of an old-school RPG.
  
  As with the golden RPG titles of yesteryear, Diablo's premise is very simple: Find evil things 
 and smite them repeatedly. The tricky bit comes in deciding just how to smite them, and how to 
 do it without getting seriously killed. Each of the game's three character classes - the warrior, 
 the rogue, and the sorcerer - has a different approach to combat, and different specialties that 
 make life easier overall. Super-strong and resilient, the warrior is able to use a great many weapons 
 that his colleagues can't heft and can wade into battles without fear of being struck down in the 
 first few seconds of the fight. Rogues are masters of the bow; their superior dexterity enables 
 them to strike from afar with unerring accuracy. Sorcerers depend on a variety of powerful spells 
 to destroy large numbers of enemies from a distance, keeping their frail frames far away from possible 
 harm. Each different class of character suits a particular style of play: Action fans will most 
 likely want to scrap up close with a warrior, while strategy fans will find the strike-and-move 
 tactics of the sorcerer and rogue more to their liking. It doesn't really matter - it's all very, 
 very cool.
  
  Cooler still are the amazing variety of items, magic, and monsters encountered while tackling the 
 game's many quests. Like Sword of Fargoal and The Wizard's Crown (old, old, OLD, RPGs) , Diablo 
 features magic items and weapons with random powers and properties. Names like the Jade Bow of 
 the Moon denote more than just a valuable find; jade indicates an item that helps the player resist 
 all forces (fire, electricity, etc.) , and of the moon shows that the arm will increase all of 
 a character's attributes. Since all of this is random, players are constantly given the promise 
 of discovering the ultimate weapon or armor with each open chest or slain enemy. Similarly, although 
 a set number of monsters is included, only a few will be seen during each full game. This means 
 that players going back for their second or third shot at the game will very likely fight opponents 
 they haven't seen before. Talk about replay value.
  
  Those who do get tired of Diablo will find a whole new realm of excitement in network and Battle. net 
 play. In both modes (all it takes to play Battle. net is an open Internet connection and a copy 
 of the game) players can work with (or against) three other players while solving quests and fighting 
 evil. Although facing off against large numbers of enemies can get pretty tricky - as a sorcerer 
 I had a horrible problem with shooting my warrior companions in the back with some particularly 
 nasty spells - this group play adds hours of play life to the title. On Battle. net be prepared 
 to run across the dregs of virtual society, from player killers who slay others for their gold, 
 to more clever sham artists who lure players into dangerous areas and then collect their items 
 after they're killed by the local beasties. Watch your back.
  
  There's plenty more that's great about Diablo - it features a fantastic soundtrack reminiscent 
 of early Bauhaus albums as well as randomly determined quests and subquests - but there's no reason 
 to write about it here. Diablo is the best game to come out in the past year, and you should own 
 a copy. Period. If you like PC games, you should go out right now and experience what is likely 
 to be the clone maker for the next two years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvalancheRider
Rating: 3.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  The original Diablo was a great game for one reason and one reason alone: immersive, spooky environments 
 did a great job of creeping you out. Diablo II has abandoned this only advantage at the door.
 
  
  I once made an analogy to one of my friends: Everything that you can do in Diablo II, you can do 
 on the windows desktop. Summon a minion? Easy! Create a new icon! Attack an enemy? Click that evil 
 AOL icon that came on your computer desktop! Kill an enemy? Why, hit the delete key! Cast a spell 
 killing dozens at once? Drag a box around a bunch of icons and hit delete!
  
  Simply put, Diablo II is essentially a clickfest. You click on things until they go away, then 
 more things come and you click them, too. Sometimes, just to make things interesting, you could 
 right click. Eventually you level up, at which point you click the things you want, then go back 
 to clicking more bad guys! There are no strategies or tactics beyond deciding which method of clicking 
 you prefer the best. The story is bland and meaningless, especially compared to the original Diablo. 
 LOD brings nothing special to this theme of clicking.
  
  I honestly don't understand how people could love this game so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertoleyva
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  it is nor a surpise nor a new that it is a great game and is one of the best in its class, of course 
 not, we know that, its just i have to confirm that, well, i must. Ive been playing this game 
 since three months and it is "super" addictive. the graphics are great, the sound and the gameplay 
 are also extraordinary. It is one of these games you play once and once again... and you know it 
 never gets boring to you.. Thanks Blizzard for this game. I really hope (cause i really want) a 
 sequel to this... do you imagine a Diablo III with all the latest technology we are discoveryng... 
 oh my god... sorry... oh my DIABLO... come on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  this game was highly addictive i played this game for around a year before it even got a little 
 boring This game for its age had the graphics the gameplay and all i belive this one of the best 
 rpg's ever and almost nuthing came short in the awsome and beautiful rpg! In this game u had to 
 fight baal the devils brother who u kiled in the original game ! and yeah u get the point The best 
 thing of this game is the multi ;plyaer u get to trade items and give ur charcter expireice and 
 the higher u go the more powerful ur cahacter becomes! And this game is just hard to explain its 
 just reall really fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gettalife185
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  Introduction: Diablo 2, probably one of the most successful games ever created. Made by Blizzard, 
 D2 is the sequel to the popular game Diablo, in which your character goes after Diablo in an attempt 
 to destroy him, but in the end gets taken over by him or something, which opens the doors for D2.
 
  
  Gameplay: D2 is a fairly simple game to play, almost 99% of its gameplay consisting of just point 
 and click. You start off in a small camp, and from there, set out to destroy evil in all its forms, 
 from small evil lords in the area, to the 3 Prime Evils themselves, Mephisto, Diablo ( yes for 
 real this time ) and Baal. After completing one Act ( which consists of mainly 6 major missions 
 and new places ) , you move on to the next one. Thru the game, by killing monsters and opening chests 
 and crates, you can gather gold ( which you can use to purchase weapons/armor/etc ) , and weapons 
 and armor themselves. Almost all weapons and armor have the ability to be upgraded with jewels 
 and gemstones that also fall from monsters. Once added to the weapons, it gives them additional 
 properties ( I. E. Fire for Ruby's, poisons for Emeralds, etc. ) . As you fight, you gain experence, 
 which makes your character level up. When you level, your given a number of status points to put 
 into a number of attributes, which will raise your HP, Mana, atk power, etc. Also, you can add 
 a new skill point into a number of unique skills that your class of character has. For example, 
 Necromancers have skills to raise the skelletons of the dead monsters you've killed, and have them 
 work for you, and Druids have the power to summon Spirt Wolves and transform himself into a Werewolf, 
 all to the cause of destroying the Prime Evils and freeing the world.
  
  Story: The story is fairly simple, yet entertaining. Diablo lives, and it is up to you as the main 
 character, to hunt him down, along with his 2 brothers Mephisto and Baal, and destroy them before 
 they take over the world with there evil.
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics of the game are fairly good for an overhead game. When you put 
 on new armor or use a new weapon, your characters sprite changes to reflect the new item, which 
 is awesome as it add's a nice air of personality to your characters. You'll be hard pressed to 
 find 2 people who have identical looking characters. Sound, the sound is good, it can be annoying 
 at times, but overall id give the sound a 6/10.
  
  Replayability: This game is replayable. After completing the game, you unlock the ability to play 
 on a harder level ( luckily with the same character ) . There are 3 levels total, so there is much 
 room for replaying.
  
  Final Recommendation: Overall, i give D2 a score of 7.2/10. Its a good game with a nice storyline, 
 and is presented fairly well. The gameplay is easy, only taking a few minutes to really learn, 
 and can be highly addictive. ( Game rated with Lord of Destruction expansion pack ) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: batata0987
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Depois do ocorrido em Tristam, Diablo o Senhor do Terror, resolveu se juntar a seus irmos Baal, 
 Senhor da Destruio e Mephisto, Senhor do dio, para tentar dominar o mundo dos mortais mais uma 
 vez.
  
  Bem, o jogo se passa logo depois do ocorrido em Tristam (Diablo I) , onde o primeiro heri ao salvar 
 o prncipe que havia sido levado para o lado das sombras,  consumido pelo poder do mal e acaba 
 se tornando o novo Diablo depois de enfiar a Soulstone (pedra mstica que aprisionava a alma de 
 Diablo) em sua prpria testa em uma tentativa desesperada de conter o mal. No comeo do jogo, voc 
 tem que escolher entre sete guerreiros heris.
  
  * Paladin, um guerreiro que acredita na f, que utiliza as auras sagradas para poder atacar inimigos 
 e defender a si e seus aliados;
  * Amazon, hbil guerreira especialista em atacar com armas rpidas e/ou de longo alcance;
  * 
 Barbarian, nico que possui fora o suficiente para poder utilizar duas armas ao mesmo tempo;
 
  * Sorceress, a famosa maga que utiliza os poderes dos elementos para poder derrotar seus inimigos;
 
  * Necromancer, o mago das trevas, que utiliza o poder das maldies e invocao dos mortos-vivos;
 
  * *Assassin, combatente especializada em utilizar as artes marciais e na construo de armadilhas;
 
  * *Druid, o grande mago da floresta, confia no poder da natureza e de seus animais, no qual pode 
 se transformar.
  
  Obs: os personagens com o sinal de asterisco (*) , pertencem somente a expanso Lord of Destruction. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooLa_M
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  An expansion for blizzard's best seller Diablo II. Expansion adds one more act (Harogath) in which 
 you fight Baal, one of the prime evils. Two classes, Druid who can shapeshift summon animals and 
 spirits and cast elemental spells. And an Assasin who is proficient in planting traps and striking 
 suddenly. Over 100 new unique items, runes, jewels, etc... but what makes this game so legendary 
 is the Battle. net. Which enables more than 1000 players to play simultaneously over the net. Graphics 
 is isometric 2D in 800 x 600 resolution (640 x 480 in Diablo) , and heavily outdated today. But 
 game is so addictive and fun that it's played even today 5 YEARS LATER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kickass1-01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  It's very addictive after the first level. Once u get to the Arcanine it gets really good. After 
 you beat Diablo it took me for ever and a day to get to Baal but I got there and he was a pain. 
 Once i got to nightmare it was a nightmare all over again. I kept losing all my good stuff it made 
 me mad but it was so addicting that I couldn't quite playing and that I always kept trying to get 
 my stuff back. I thought Baal was hard on the first difficulty man was that hard. I finally beat 
 him after the first 100 tries. Once i got to Hell wow! All in all i t was a terrific game and I 
 couldn't stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phicks85
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I have always liked RPG's for some reason or another. This one has a captivating story and some 
 good character classes. You can chose from a variety of classes from a paladin to a necromancer. 
 All of them have strengths that you have to learn to use to compensate for a weakness. Like the 
 amazon who is great with a bow but if enemies get in to close you might as well say goodbye. I 
 have sunk alot of hours into this game to get my character up to level 90. So even after you beat 
 the game there are 2 more difficulty levels to play on and even after that you can still run around 
 killing stuff or go online and play with other people. Great game... go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  This Timeless RPG is one of the few that revives your love about classic games. The simplistic, 
 yet immersive gameplay is what sets this masterpiece from the rest. The walking around and fighting 
 hordes of monsters formula works in this. There is something satisfying about slaying a whole encampment 
 of demons and then looting the corpses. The story is amazing, and carries on from where Diablo 
 2 left off and provides another chapter in the world of Diablo. This game focuses on Diablos dark 
 brother, Baal. During the events of this game, you fight endless creatures, level up and much more.
 
  
  Gameplay
  While repetitive, Diablo 2 LoD proves that a simplistic formula works with gamers. The game mainly 
 focuses on the actions of the mouse, walking around, clicking to fight, clicking to cast spells 
 and clicking to level up. The easy-to-learn controls seperate D2LoD from the rest of RPGs, which 
 require knowledge of endless hotkeys and shortcuts. Diablo 2 just gives it to you at the click 
 of a mouse. Despite the gameplaying being so good, it is somewhat... lacking in certain areas. Like 
 the characters what you face are just usually different coloured and stronger versions of what 
 you were facing before, a long forgotten type of gaming. But nevertheless, D2 proves a classic. 
 The many types of armour and weapons add a great sense surrounding this game. I like the ability 
 of socketed items, adding a sense of personality in what you want in the way you battle. The 2 
 new classes are probaly the best in the game when used correctly. It isnt uncommon on Battle. Net 
 to see druids walking around with hordes of animals walking by. The battling system requires patience, 
 with the repetitive clicks on the left mouse button. Despite all these downsides, it is a great 
 game gameplay-wise. 
  Verdict - 8.
  
  Graphics
  Probaly the kick in the groin and soft spot of LoD. The graphics appear somewhat dated, even when 
 it was first released. As mentioned before, most of the creatures use the same body but different 
 skins, colours and just a bit stronger than previous. The weapons look good, as does the armour. 
 The creatures in the game do look good however, but could of been done with a bit more care. The 
 textures and terrains look flat and exhausted, and could of been done better. But, the classes 
 in the game look good in gameplay, and the companion models also look good, ie. your mercenary, 
 your animals etc. The spells look magnificent, such as the fissure from the druid, the elemental 
 spells from the sorceress and the dark spells from the necromancer. The graphics are disappointing, 
 but are still nice to look at. The cut-scenes look good for when it was released, and also slightly 
 authentic. But, despite these bad-points, it has more good-points, making it a good game to look 
 at.
  Verdict - 7.
  
  Sound
  Theres very few minor flaws with the sounds. The only flaw is the again repetiveness from the same 
 creatures. Such as the same zany cries from a devilkin, whilst having the same voice for a fallen. 
 The voices for the characters are good, such as a strong, stern voice for the Merc Hire Rogue making 
 a sort of leader-ish voice. The sly voices of Gheed in the Rogue Encampment refelct his dodgy wares, 
 and the ever-familiar voice of Deckard Cain is fun to listen to. Also, the character who talks 
 to you first (Wharriv [sp?] ) is the same person who does "Uther the Lightbringer" in the Warcraft 
 3 game. The weapons clanging against armour sound realistic, too. The creepy music when roaming 
 the countryside adds to the tense feel of a horde of strong demons heading your way. The sound 
 is a great aspect of a game, and makes up where the graphics fail to deliver.
  Verdict - 9.
  
  Value
  A budget must have game. It is very cheap nowadays thanks to the oldness 
 of it. If you see it at the local store, pick it up, if you don't already own it. Despite the cheap 
 price tag, don't be fooled, it's a great game, a scoop purchase if you will. There is easily around 
 75 hours of gameplay to be had, although you can rack up more if you want to get full satisfaction 
 in completing the game with all the characters. 
  Verdict - 10.
  
  Overall, this game is a timeless classic from the ever-popular Blizzard Entertainment, the same 
 company responsible for the likes of the Starcraft and Warcraft series. And, with new rumours and 
 hopes of a Diablo 3 in the works or planning stages, you should pick up D2 and LoD to know whats 
 happening in the story. So, if you don't own this classic and your a fan of RPGs, go an pick it 
 up. You won't be disappointed.
  
  My Score: 8.3 - Great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shreader21
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  this game rocks man its so cool i had no clue how to play but then my friends told me about the 
 quests and andrail and crap then i was satisfied with the game very much and now im in the east 
 oh yeah baby. ok this is getting old i have to type 100 words im getting tired of this. so blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH. fjjndjigknb jidfniuwhduifviqen ueirhiuhvuasind ueirhaeuirghweiuh urfhuwieghuieqh 
 eruighwuerhguiwe ewrguiwheurig eriugheuwrggfe rurur rururururururu uuierjn erighiiasuhfuaihwer 
 uiewrghuierghuiewghd euirhgefisodgijwhg ergwhebhbg. erhwyuowa eriughwe reiugh eruighe riugheirugh 
 ei hrgihegf ueirg uherig he. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matejp
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  Diablo: LOD is a great expansion to th original Diablo 2 game, because of the 800/600 resolution, a 
 new act, two new cutscenes, a lot of new items and two brand new  
 is good with 6 quests in each of the 5 acts, but the multi-play is Diablos true jewel. Single -play 
 is long because it has 5 acts and 3  is incredibly hard 
 because all of your stats are sevirely lowered but still gets boring after a while. Multi-play is 
 very entretaining because you can go doing the beforementioned 5 acts with other players and some 
 other multi-player  is what makes this game so legendary and good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digiscan
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  This expansion just makes everything so much better in diablo ii, the new weapons, the new classes, 
 better skills, more exp, bigger stash space, it is well worth playing and once you play it then 
 it will be very hard to stop.
  
  totally awesome, if you have diablo ii then go out and buy the expansion.
  I prefer using a sorc, 
 but i have also made a pally and a barb, get the game well worth it.
  feel free to look for me or add me to friends.
  My account name is Tonry and my chars are:
 
  Sorc: Avaera lvl 60
  Barb: Zalaith lvl 15
  Pally: Kradrick lvl 34
  Hope to see you on bnet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyqa
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  I spended most of my younger years playing Diablo 2 Lord of Destruction with my friends online, 
 but you can also feel the highly addictive aura from the game in single player mode.
  This expansion features one more playable class, new items, one more chapter, new bosses and much, 
 much more!
  The graphics and sound are just great!
  
  To me it feels like Diablo 2 isn't complete until you get your hands on Lod. This is just a great 
 expansion and a must for all the D2 gamers out there!
  If you have played your ass of from D2, you need this expansion to relive the wonderful world of 
 Diablo and slice and dice trough various monsters!
  
  Mephisto runs forever!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpzy4561g
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This is an extremely time consuming game. So if you're not up to spending hours upon hours building, 
 customizing, and leveling your character.... don't even pick up the mouse. Patches that keep coming 
 out spice up the game with new bosses items and the like. The leveling part though gets extremely 
 tedious. The skill tree gives you many options but usually you end up being a uniform character 
 that is just like your other counterparts. (same skill moves and items and the such) So you can be 
 "godly"That's wat put me off. The same thing over and over just made me drop it. Seems that console 
 games are my fortay.... or (however you spell it) anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philosopher08
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good. The only thing that tends to get annoying is how people can level up to 
 the maximum in around 1-2 weeks of non stop playing and then buy the ultimate items and own everything 
 in the path. The quest are very fun even though after making 10 or more characters it might get 
 a tad boring for some. But the first time done they are very entertaining. The PVP'ing in this game 
 should keep any fan entertained for awhile. There will always be a challenge in PVP'ing. Trading 
 is also a big part of this game. As you must either trade or buy your ultimate gear. It is a very 
 fun game to play. Oh and Hammer Paladins for the win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Diablo was the best RPG to ever come out. Period. Then Blizzard was so smart that they made Diablo 
 II continuing the ever long Diablo series. In Diablo II you are still kicking butt to get to that 
 nasty devil Diablo. But as we saw he gets away AGAIN! In Diablo II: LoD it continues our story 
 and even provides new professions. The gameplay is slighty enhanced and the graphics are the same. 
 I adore this game and it seems to play a great role in our gaming era. It's been almost 5 years 
 since they have come out with a new thing for Diablo but research says that they are bulking up 
 their Diablo staff for something new. Who knows what they could bring in the next few years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  what I meant by awesome multiplayer, is that this game is for multiplayer, yes it has a singleplayer, 
 but its identical to multi. but with no good items, and no players to converse with. thats the 
 other thing about this game online, if you go into this alone with no guidance, you are going to 
 get ripped off, and wont know where to begin, especially with a lot of veterans on it. 
  I decided to write this review because my favorite game is now ranked 6th on gamespot, so I had 
 to review it, graphics are outdated, but the beauty is you don't need a buffed PC or even high 
 speed, I play on a 4 year old dell and 28.8kb/s modem, and it lags a bit but not that much.
  you can look pass the graphics, and gameplay, because this game is really addictive, itll take 
 you 3 hours just looking for an item, and another 3 hours trying to negociate. plus if your a rookie, 
 itll take you awhile to get your character to a respectable level. but all and all... buy this 
 game, its like what? 20$ at best, worth more than 20$.... buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 6, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 was a massive improvement on what was already a fantastic and groundbreaking RPG. This 
 expansion pack really completes the Diablo 2 experience and is worth every penny that you spend 
 on it.
  
  On the most obvious level, Lord of Destruction adds a new chapter to the Diablo 2 adventure, allowing 
 you to battle the last of the three Prime Evils, Baal - Lord of Destruction, having already despatched 
 Mephisto and Diablo during the initial adventure. The new chapter is engaging and lengthy, and 
 features six varied quests, and many challenging enemies. 
  
  LoD allows you to play with two new different character classes on top of the original five, that 
 each have a wide variety of unique skills and abilities, which further enhances the great range 
 of choice you have in character development. There is now such a wide range of directions that 
 you can go in character development that it is possible to create a character perfectly suited 
 to your own gaming style.
  
  LoD also adds a variety of new weapon and armour types, many of which are class specific. There 
 is also a whole new set of elite items, and the introduction of runes and jewels that further allow 
 to enhance socketed items and create truly unique gear for your character to use or to trade with 
 other gamers in multiplayer.
  
  The henchmen are improved dramatically by the expansion pack, seeing as they can now be carried 
 over between acts and will level up the longer they adventure with you. I have completed this game 
 many times, each time still using the initial rogue henchwoman that I got in Act 1, which emphasises 
 just how strong the initial ally can become through leveling up and using equipment that you give 
 them.
  
  It is gameplay improvements like this and other little tweaks such as increasing the size of the 
 stash that make LoD an essential purchase for fans of Diablo 2. While the Diablo franchise is known 
 for having dated graphics, LoD takes steps to remedy this by allowing you to play in a higher resolution. 
 The cut sequences are very impressive, much like they were in Diablo 2, which always leads me to 
 wonder why the in-game graphics aren't better.
  
  As with other episodes in the Diablo saga, the voice acting in the new act is solid, and the music 
 is particularly enjoyable. A criticism would be that still you are not presented with dialogue 
 options, thus meaning personal character development and relations with NPCs never develop, but 
 this isn't really a major problem.
  
  I have never experienced any stability issues with this expansion pack.
  
  While LoD is expensive 
 considering that it is an expansion pack (though these days you will find it much cheaper) it is 
 worth it. It completes the Diablo 2 story and offers impressive additions to what is already a 
 great game. If you like Diablo 2 then you must buy Lord of Destruction, as it improves gameplay 
 and replay value significantly and offers an entertaining and challenging final chapter to the 
 epic Diablo story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thylife99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Diablo was one hell of a game and LOD surely adds to that ............. the fun just gets increased 
 for there is a lot more to fight ..... especially in multiplayer , where now hte team ca have two 
 more types of players........... the assasin and the druid are superb additions and are tough compettitors 
 in there own respect ...... well there has never been a better expasion than this......... all the 
 more the fifth act add spice to the fun ........... its good to hav aone more chapter...... i was 
 sad when i first finished the diablo II game bt continued on to the heigher difficulties .......... 
 usually me and my bro play together .......... its good fun to be in a tes=am game talkin to each 
 other... sharing what u hav..... and boy did LOD bring some new stuffff............. lots of cool 
 items to be found and that hooked me on to the comp for more time ........... well in a week i 
 play the game for atlest 2 hours ............ this one has just become a part of my life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkBunny100
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This rpg is probably one of the best rpg ever existed , diablo is the true meaning for rpg even 
 today the game is still being played the graphics were of the best since that time and the gameplay 
 is a beauty , Diablo can truly be called a rpg .The story in the game is about a hero  
 and an Amazon) who has to stop the Lord Of Destruction (Baal) but to get to Baal you have to fight 
 to powerful monsters Andariel , Duriel ,and the brothers of Baal (Mephisto and the powerfull Diablo) 
 This game interface is truly pleaseant and the levels are very complex , so are the caracters and 
 the enemyes you have to fight you can't get bored about this game . One of the Best Games That 
 Ever existed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmoredAshes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  A really great addictive online game that has consumed so much of my time.. It has a ladder group 
 that you can compete against other players and once and a while blizzard adds in special awards 
 for being the highest or first to reach 99. Probably the only game to draw so much time from me 
 besides the final fantasy series. And if you get bored fighting monsters you can play PvP or even 
 team PvP. And once you beat all the difficulties there is still more to do, such as the recently 
 added "Uber" versions of the three prime evils (Diablo, Mephisto, Baal) . To sum things up its definately 
 a game worth picking up if you have a lot of time on your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaBiggman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  While Diablo II: LoD might not be as "pretty" as some of the other games of its time, it did have 
 one thing those other games didn't: re-playability. Clocking in at a whopping seven character classes 
 each with their own unique skills and abilities, the player is given an amazing assortment of ways 
 to play and beat the game with a concoction of different characters. 
  
  The story of LoD is that of Baal, the one remaining brother of chaos and it brings us to the Barbarian 
 Highlands, which is just great in itself. Through the journey, you fight powerful enemies, gain 
 powerful loot, and learn a great deal of the Diablo universe.
  
  Diablo II: Lord of Destruction is truly a hack and slash for the ages!~
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the better expansions for a game that I have seen in recent years. Not only does 
 it increase the continent that you can explore and play on but it adds thousands of new items and 
 effects to play and fight for.
  
  So what do you get and why is it worth buying?
  
  Well, for starters there are 2 new character classes to play. There are improvements to the graphics 
 engine and now the game will play in 800 x 600 mode. Lastly, there is an entirely new 'act' to 
 play through which should give you at least another 50 or so hours of single player gameplay.
 
  
  Apart from the above, there is nothing really new here but I think that is a good thing. Why mess 
 with something when it works perfectly?
  
  So if you have the original Diablo and want to play some more but are looking for some content 
 then give this a try. You never know, you may like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me_am_evil
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  This is a major improvement over the original Diablo and Diablo II. A great game overall, but the 
 many patches are inconvenient. That aside, I can stil play for hours on end and still discover 
 something new. The guys at blizzard entertainment did an excellent job and deserve the Nobel Prize 
 or something like that. The only way that they could ever top this is with a Diablo III. Gameplay 
 is awesome, with new terrain and monsters around every turn, character advancement is superb. Most 
 games will auto-advance your character, but Diablo II is superior by allowing you to customize 
 how your character advances. The NPCs are superb, and the storyline behind the game is phenomenal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puddin601
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 11:24 pm PT
Review:  
  Diablo 2 is the best game ever made I only got the game a few moths ago and I love it. The storyline 
 for this game is great. there are many different char type to pick from. so overall diablo 2 is 
 a really excellent game and it as no equal to date and probally never will unless battlenet finally 
 decides to make diablo 3 which I hope they do because if it is anything like diablo 2 there will 
 be a lot of copies sold. for anyone who does not have diablo 2 go out and buy it right now you 
 won't be wasting your money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  Diablo two was a pretty addicting game, and diablo two lord of destruction just adds to this.
 
  
  The biggest new addition is the two new classes, the Druid and Assassin. The Druid is a lot like 
 the Necromancer, while the Assassin is a lot like the Amazon. While both these classes have the 
 same quality as the five Diablo two characters, the two new ones have their own special abilities. 
 For the Druid, he has s lot more, special pets, such as one that regenerates mana. The Assassin 
 only has these special claws and can do some special abilities like summoning a clone.
  
  You also have totally new chapter. This chapter follows up after Diablo died and is all about taking 
 out another one of his generals. You get new levels, a whole new city, and new monsters.
  
  The graphics and audio are un-changed, but the same great PVP is still intact, along with lots 
 of new items to get. This is a fantastic expansion for fans of Diablo two, since youll need Diablo 
 two to play it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speedfreak_R
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Since this is an expansion pack for Diablo II, this wont be a full review but just an update to 
 my Diablo II review. So read that one first if you havent already! :)
  
  Lord of Destruction stands for Baal, Diablos brother who seeks revenge. This expansion pack adds 
 a fifth chapter to the game as well as two new characters, with one of them being my favorite! 
 I played most of the time with the Assassin, since shes an expert in melee attacks. The new chapter 
 is a great addition to this already awesome game and gives you a lot more playtime.
  
  Theres isnt much more to say so Ill leave it here. Diablo II: Lord of Destruction is a good 
 expansion to an already great game, just to give you more Diablo II pleasure. So get it if you 
 liked the original!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GZheng12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I have played Diablo series games since 1997. No doubt Diablo 2: LOD made me crazy playing the 
 game all my time. Although the PC gaming technology evolves rapidly, diablo's gameplay and storyline 
 are unbeatable. I wish someday if the classic game like diablo 2 could be rebuilt with better graphic 
 technology. 
  
  I tried other action RPG games, but found Diablo 2: LOD stands on top. What I like the game most 
 is its gameplay design. I can enjoy hours' playing without boring myself. The gaming infrastructure 
 is well built so mouse click can cover most actions. I hate too many hotkey combinations and puzzles 
 during gameplay. Diablo 2: LOD just perfectly fit my expectation of RPG game. 
  
  The online gaming exp. cannot be much easier. Battle. net has done good job and I found multiplayer 
 game is even more fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snippey
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Everything about it's game play is just amazing, something like make this game even better is what 
 you never know when you get a weapon, and if it is magic, you don't know what it does before u 
 have identified it.
  
  the graphics could still be a little better, still it just so much better than on Diablo, and the 
 newest act is really funny and hard, but that is just fun that it is hard.
  
  the sounds is good, and the videos is really good to be made at tho 90's.
  
  And it follows 
 a story like you must do, but you can go around and take the bosses whenever u want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necsby
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This is one outstanding game. It is defiently worth your time if your into adventure/rpg games. 
 Allows you to customize your character pretty well and with new features like a bigger stash and 
 an extra Act, it brings a new atmosphere to the game that was somewhat missing from the its predecessor. 
 Learning the game is quite easy, and if you already owned Diablo 2, then you could pick up from 
 where you left off and dig deeper into the story of Diablo and his brothers. The fun in this game 
 though, is leveling up your character (s) and playing your friends and owning the crap out of them. 
 Regardless though whether your playing Single Player (lol yeah right) or Multiplayer, this games 
 a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crowdevil
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 18, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II: Lord of Destruction
  Like all Diablo games, they only get better. This is no exception. What you can do with your characters 
 is almost endless. The weapons selection is great, and weapons are able to be built to where they 
 are almost God like. A new chapter is now available. So the story is better. The game still operates 
 smoothly and with very little lag times. The CO-OP mode is addictive as well as single mode. The 
 replay value is moderately high. The only problems I have is that I believe all the characters 
 were able to use weapons in both hands than one. Like the barbarian and assassin, But I strongly 
 recommend this game to all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aegisomega
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  It's true!! Most of my time is spent playing Diablo 2: LOD. I feel immensely sorry for anyone out 
 there that has yet to pick this game up.
  
  This game is by far my favorite PC game at the time, hence the 100+ hours I've spent playing it 
 to date. I just can't seem to get enough it. There are hundreds of builds you can do for the 7 
 character classes, and with each new patch, something new is added to the game.
  
  For example, with 1.11, the "Uber Quest" was added. The Uber Quest is an extremely difficult quest 
 that must be done on Hell difficulty. Basically, you find 3 keys from three different boss monsters 
 on Hell (I'm not telling which ones) in order to create a portal to combat an Uber versions of 
 one of 3 different Act-end bosses (again, I'm not telling which ones) .
  
  Don't be discouraged by the learning curve, I only set it at 4+ hours because it takes a long time 
 to find a perfect build for any one character class. You can just jump into the action and have 
 fun in 10 minutes or less. Although, if you have just installed the game, I recommend connecting 
 to Battle. net long enough to download the latest patch.
  
  All-in-all, this game is amazing. It is well worth the original $50 price tag. Plus, there are 
 tons of mods out there to give a further boost to the gaming experience.
  
  Good Luck and Happy Hunting!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtafreak621
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  If you have never played this game before then you are REALLY missing out.
  
  If youve heard of the pun Ever'Crack, aka Everquest, Disregard it.
  
  This game should be called 
 Diablo II Lord of Addiction.
  
  Gameplay- 11/10
  
  I really cant explain why this is soooo addicting. From the zombie beating, to the demon swatting, 
 This game will have you hooked in no time. Seriously, as soon as I put this game in, I was glued 
 to the side of the computer. P. S.-this game will cost you a lot of money in computer mice and keyboards... 
 especially if you Die a lot. lol.
  
  Graphics-9/10
  
  Now I know that from todays standards Diablo II LoA... I mean D..... is laughable. But once you 
 put your sides back together and catch your breath, Youll start to notice the Decapitated bodies, 
 and skeletons and all the litle details, you begin to Heart 2-D.
  
  Sound-10/10 
  
  I really enjoy the thump sounds when you hit the monsters with blunt weapons. Like seriously, I 
 know you may think me to be a little saddistic, but it gets you to wonder if the makers of D2 were 
 actually beating animals with blunt weapons to get the sound effects.
  
  Value- 113/10
  
  Wow, in my 3 and a half years of playing this game, I really cant see an end.
  and I shall 
 quote all of the "comp geeks" on the boards.... "'Nuff Said" (countless computer geeks, message 
 boards)
  
  Reviewers Tilt-12/10
  
  Why the hell is this game so addicting? Just buy the regular Diablo II, then buy the expansion, aka 
 Lord of Destruction, aka Lord of Addiction, and I really hope to see you online....... In A Duel!!! 
 Muahahahahahahahah
  
  BTW... Hard rating is for Hell mode... youll see when you get it, or you know what im talking about. 
 (written during patch V1.11) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOBucky
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Diablo II, Lord of Destruction is an great game. The only complaint I have is that by the third 
 time through, the replay is wearing thin. Also, it's boring to keep repeating areas trying to build 
 your character up enough to attack the next level. On the up side, getting through the game the 
 first two times is just difficult enough and challenging enough to be worthwhile.
  Word of warning, in the second two times around, you lose experience every time you die, which 
 adds a certain intensity. It also means that you want to make sure that your character is in decent 
 shape before starting a new level.
  My standard disclaimer for the scoring below: I find these very difficult. Many games can be picked 
 up almost immediately but I continue to learn new things as long as I play. I dont keep track 
 of how many hours I play. Finally, I dont pay much attention to the graphics or sound unless they 
 annoy me or get in my way, so I never know how to score them. Unless elsewise discussed in this 
 review, these things need to be kept in mind when judging how I score the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: White-Tornado
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  This was a great game from the start and once they came out with the expansion it got even better. 
 The way you can use so many different characters with so many different abilities really shows 
 off its status as a good rpg. Even in on-line multi-player the game keeps changing and getting 
 better once new additions are added the only bad think about that is you have to wait about a minute 
 for your computer to download a new patch. This is an overall great game and one a thoroughly enjoyed. 
 This game has so many different options of play the possibilities are endless, you could make a 
 dueler, a item-finder, a character to piss off other people, or a person to have fun playing with 
 which in my opinion is the druid or the necromancer. The trap assassin is good for pissing off 
 people though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside5001
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  Diablo, at its time, was one of the greatest "hack n slash" game of all time. It had alot of depth, 
 and overall alot to do with it's fun and lengthy (for the most part) missions. It had a variety 
 of weaponry, enemies and more, in this seemingly open ended, revolutionary game!
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The basic 2D graphics supported this game really well, altough there was alot 
 more to it. It had excellent design, look and event though somtimes repitive, it had excellent 
 dungeon layouts!
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Sound is always the hardest to rate, as I have an ear for ANY type of music, so generally good 
 sound is EXCELLENT sound, 10/10 for this game!
  
  Overall: 9.1/10
  A classic game by Blizzard! If you can find this somewhere, I say GRAB IT NOW! It will hold up 
 well to recent games of its genre, so its a worthy buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaseykahnefan01
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best RPG Online MultiPlayer Games out on the net.
  
  Ever since the release of Diablo and seeing how such a huge success it was.. Blizzard knew that 
 they needed a game that could top it...
  
  With the release of Diablo 2 and then soon to follow this Expansion pack game Lord of Destruction.. Blizzard 
 set themselves record breaking sales with what is now known as the one of the best online RPG games 
 ever!
  
  What makes Diablo 2 Expansion pack different then Diablo 2 and its predecessor... Lets take a history 
 lesson shall we?
  
  With the release of Diablo Not very many people were into the whole online RPG game... but with 
 this it soon became popular as you could experience the joy of joining people from around the globe 
 to join your party as you fought evil..
  
  However even though the game was a success people found a way to Duplicate items and use the Hacks 
 to make the Game uninteresting and Glitches were never fixed becuase Patches that werent released... And 
 Blizzard took a lesson from this game..
  
  When they Came out with Diablo 2.. This was to solve all the old problems that riddled the game 
 and ruined for everyone... Blizzard now made the game with updated Graphics and new levels to play... as 
 well as 2 new characters to choose from and a whole new class of weapons and Items to use and choose 
 from...
  
  With the release of Patches and Online System administrators Battle. Net is trying there best to 
 enforce hackers from ruining the game by releasing patches that not only was to help prevent hackers 
 from hacking.. but fix any bugs found as well as add new stuff to the game...
  
  Then.... on June 27th 2001 Blizzard released a long awaited Expansion pack known as Diablo 2: Lord 
 of Destruction... Instantly this game had become a huge sales and money making game becuase everyone 
 wanted the features that came with it
  
  -2 new characters
  -New monsters and quest
  -A whole new act
  -New Items and ways to interact with others
  -New patches every now and then 
 makes the game even more fun to play
  
  With the release of the latest patch as i found out it added a whole new level to the game.. Now 
 i have yet to reach this new level... But you need to get 3 Keys that only 3 bosses hold and sometimes 
 drop.. but you must beat them in Hell Mode..... Which by far isnt the easiest thing to do...
  
  All in all this has to be the few games that deserves a 10 out of 10... Congrats to Blizzard 
 on making such a fine game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPG697
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Well, I dont remember playin D2 without the expansion for long but whatever... LoD is a great expansion 
 for D2, almost a must have for the game. LoD offers a couple new character classes, many new items 
 and stuff... and you get a whole new act to explore. You even get new types of monsters to fight... lol. 
 If you have or plan on getting Dibalo 2, get Lord of Destruction right along with it because it 
 makes the game a hell of a lot more fun. believe me it will be worth the extra 10-15 you will pay. 
 I bought my copy for 12.99 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurtus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  In fact the first RPG i ever played as young gamer was Diablo. Back in the day this game defined 
 the begining of an era as the Baldurs gates and the Icewind dales where making their stand in the 
 big bad world of gaming. Diablo trigered a kind of springtime of youth in me that yerned for more 
 games similar to this one. The 'Blizzard' company was deffinatly shaking the foundations of the 
 gaming world at this point with multi award winning titles such as Warcraft One and Two, Starcraft 
 and Diablo. 
  
  Many years later when i got my hands on Diablo 2, i was again addicted in matter of minutes to 
 the rich and enthralling storyline the series had come to offer. I was caught up in a world of 
 hellish fantasy hacking through my many demonic victims that dared stand between me and and the 
 ultimate goal - to destroy Diablo.
  
  Now for the expansion. Dose any more need to be said, this is one of the best series of our generation 
 somthing that the younger gamers may never understand all they want is beefy video cards to pump 
 out grahpics that my only be attached to a mediocre game. With that said i take my hat of to the 
 guys at Blizzard Entertainment and the defining games of our generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This is a good expansion to the diablo game.
  This adds a unique spark about the game, if you find the cube later on in the game, any thing you 
 place inside can be super inhanced.
  
  Example:
  Place some gems with a powerful sword, will give the blade more strenght power and might include 
 fire effect and others.
  
  There are lots of info on the internet to what to place inside to enhance your skills.
  
  You 
 have an addional 2 charater to choose from as well as the oringal from the game.
  
  You have to play the game again from start to finish, but the differenece about the expansion, 
 getting towards the end realm of the first game, there is a portal which takes you in to the evil 
 dead world, where all the monsters have came from.
  You have to find the devil and kill him, this is no easy task, but with anoff power behind you, 
 this damon can be slaid.
  
  Play the game to find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I completely loved the original Diablo II, but this expansion just didn't add enough to the game. 
 The new act could be beaten in a good 30 minutes of play time, and Baal was easier than Diablo 
 to defeat. Not only was the expanded gameplay weak, but the jewels were also a weak addition that 
 added minimal advantages. Despite these gripes; the things that they did do right (like the runes, 
 new equipment, and the two new classes) were very well done. However, the game's graphics were 
 dated, they said they put in a new graphics engine? Not that I was aware of. The game also introduced 
 loads of spamming and annoying players who hacked or advertised their worthless sites. The game's 
 overall outcome was disappointing. If you thought Diablo II was a great game by itself, just stick 
 with that, LOD doesn't add enough new content to make it any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aura12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is a mmo......... kind of. This game uses the point and click to its full potental. The 
 graphics in this game are really bad because of its oldness. Its got a wide variety of classes, 
 paladin amazon necro barbarian assassin sorcerers and druid. All theese characters are very fun 
 to play with. All diferent types of weapons and armor.3 Diferent diffucults and 5 different world 
 wit there own advantages and dissadvantages. A bad thing about this game is the fact that ur character 
 looks like every other character in ur class. Each world or act has its own boss which are fairly 
 hard at the lvl u should be at when u face it. Overall a GREAT game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eliteshooter
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are not bad but just a little out of date, the sound is actually pretty good the foot 
 steps are in place the attacks sounds are all in place but just a little weird and a little screwed 
 up. The value ain't that good but with online mode it is acually kindda worth playing again and 
 again but in less than a month you will get bored of it for sure. The gameplay is not that good 
 because all you do is click there and click there again and clicking
  over and over. the game isn't really worth buying. learning how to play takes way to long because 
 there are 7 chars and each char has 30 moves so that = in total is 210 moves to get used to and 
 learn how to use it properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galinthas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  Its hard not to get caught up in Diablo 2 Lord of Destruction. The additional act, the extensive 
 new list of items that now are strewn across the virtual land for the hapless (or lucky) adventurer 
 to stumble upon provide the Diablo 2 addict with more to draw them in.
  
  With the number of patches that have consistently come out from Blizzard to address various gameplay, 
 balance and multiplayer issues, Diablo 2 LOD seems to me one of the most played online MMORPG up 
 until World of Warcraft stepped onto the scene. 
  
  As of today (Jan 2, 2006) the battle. net service and Diablo 2 community still remains rather strong 
 despite the efforts of various hacker attempts to "dupe" the most elite items in the game. So for 
 the online, multiplayer fan, there is still a fair amount of value left in this game there.
  
  For the single player, or solo fan, with the latest patches, the difficultly level of the game 
 has increased. I would be surprised if a player could advance to the end of the final difficulty 
 without the strongest of character builds. But perhaps that is a good thing.
  
  The graphics continue to be engaging and highly detailed and very typical of other Blizzard games. 
 Its hard not to enjoy the endless hunt for better equipment as your character levels up and grows 
 stronger with more and more skills.
  
  The sound is good and is unobtrusive enough to provide the user with ambiance without overpowering. 
 The sound effects appear to be tuned just right.
  
  Overall, the gameplay of Diablo 2 LOD, once it went through its growing pains of patch after patch, 
 has matured to a point where there are enough resources online to provide even the casual user 
 with a multitude of character builds to experiment with and find the one for them. With 7 classes 
 now to choose from, and the latest "synergies" which augment skills in new and powerful ways, any 
 gamer with have hours upon hours of experimentation and enjoyment to come. 
  
  It's still a viable option for any gamer who hasn't experienced it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I played this game for 3 years and it took over my life. Everything about 
 this game is amazing. I played this game 24/7. Online play in this game is amazing. There are thousands 
 of people to interact with. Not to mention millions of items for you to find. A simple yet flawless 
 RPG. 7 classes and an aray of skills for them keeps this game fresh. The selling point of this 
 game is dueling. If you have good items (like i did) dueling and owning newbs while you trash talk 
 to them is great. It's the greatest feeling one could have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  this game offers so much. while the graphics may be a little outdated the game itself makes up 
 for it big time. Online play is free and awesome to play. YOur characters lvl up, get stat points, unique 
 items and sets etc. This game offers over a 1000 different items, 50 or so spells, 7 characters 
 to deck out. Even offline the game is fantastic. So many quests and items to acquire makes this 
 game very addictive and life consuming... meaning you will lose alot of sleep because you cant put 
 this game down. i give it a 9.2 because of the graphics and occasional server problems along with 
 some mean online players. So pick this game up its well worth it, and the learning curve is not 
 too hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectre37
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This review is about Diablo 2 with the expansion
  
  The Best Part: Online.
  The Worst Part: Offline.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10
  Fantastic! So many spells, items, attacks. 
 This game definatly is the best hack and slash rpg of all time. Other games can learn alot from 
 this game.
  
  Visual - 7.5/10
  The visuals are not the greatest, but thats to be expected considering its such an old game. But 
 graphics dont affect the game all that much.
  
  Audio - 8/10
  Great scores and voice overs, but not enough sound affects.
  
  Value -10/10
  This game is 
 an extremly fun game online, there is so many items and different types of characters. The possibilities 
 are nearly endless.
  
  This game is a must own for any avid RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: White_Puma
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:39 am PT
Review:  What can i say for this great game its a legend of its kind for me it will always be the best of 
 all. No matter how many years have passed I still play this game I love Diablo games from the first 
 demo of Diablo 1 I played and since then I still enjoy playing lod with my friend online. I dont 
 know why but this game is that extremely addicting, never found that in any other game. 
  If you havent played this game u should decently try it out. Well you might find its graphics 
 a lil poor cause its a bit old game but still it has better graphics then some nowadays games. 
 Every detail is down to the pixel and event though its not a 3d games its give you the feeling 
 that no other 3d game gives you. Perfect camera easy movements and controls. Many skills, a great 
 quest system, good storyline, cool monster, a great vitiate of items, 7 great characters to play 
 with and need of strategy. What else can someone need ^^ 
  (I want some mooooore)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phazor58
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is all around addictive, but everything you could want in a free multiplayer online game. 
 You'll spend hours playing this game and find a community that's just right for what you're looking 
 for. You can join clans, duel, trade, go questing. Everything you could need in a game.
  
  You can be a necromancer, assassin, barbarian, druid, sorceress, amazon or paladin. Each class 
 has sub classes to choose from. Such as a summoning or poison/bone necro and hammerdin or smiter 
 paladin. There's tons of ways to build your character and thought must be put into each build. 
 Hundreds of items can be found across the gameworld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthnaevus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  I first played Diablo, then Hellfire, then moved to Diablo II, oh my god, awesome and now LOD!!! 
 Gamers were waiting the expansion pack, really nervous. It packs the whole universe and gives it 
 another Act. Wow! Baal's tough but I managed to kill him the 10 time ;-)
  
  The game's hard because there is so many classes of people (not chracacters) . Those who kill you 
 for fun, those who are too powerful to even tough you. They pretend they are powerful but they 
 are not.... Quite frustrating.. But rejoice yourselves, there is still a singleplayer mod!
  
  Buy the BattleChest is you don't own them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LUBULA
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I own this game in my computer, I had this for maybe around 4 years! And what? I'm still playing 
 it!! Here is why.
  
  1. To addicting. especially when your playing with your friend's that's the beauty of the game!!
 
  2. Seeing people steal other users items, well about this one.... I don't think It's really nice 
 but just a good laugh in your mind... although it's kind of sad.
  3. Level up! wow... when you level up you get 5Stat points and 1 skill point, anywhere you invest 
 these affectts your character tremendously!!!
  4. PK known as Player Killer I seen these games everywhere they wait for you to go outside then 
 they hostile and kill you and steal your gold etc! Be Careful.
  5. Last but not least....... the movies are great... you can chat too and do lot's of interesting 
 stuff..... this is worth buying!
  
  Great PC Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolas53847
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 3:30 am PT
Review:  It is a very good game with quite good graphics and you can play on the network with your friends!!!
 
  I have Paladin named tsakali at level 40 and my friend has Necromancer at level 39. We are good 
 and we play together. Try it!!!
  qqqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq qqq q q q q q q q 
 q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q q 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SO1324
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II lord of destrution is the most addictive game i have played. im currently on my third 
 time picking this game up after a few months of down time and playing it again. 
  If you want a game that will keep you coming back to it, then this is that game. its only $39.99 
 for the "Diablo Battlechest" witch includes the first diablo the second one (diablo II) and the 
 expansion (lord of destruction) . It also includes a strategy guide for the expansion which can 
 come in very handy if your new to the game. It lists all the gems, runes, and sets you can have.
 
  After you first install this game and play it for the first time you'll need to set up an account 
 and pick your name. Then you will get to pick a character from the 7 different choices. their is 
 the amazon witch is good with bows and javelins, the barbarian witch can have two swords at the 
 same time and is much stronger then the others, the necromancer who can summon creatures, the sorceress 
 who uses magic, the paladin who can bless and fights preferable with a sword and shield, and the 
 two new characters from the expansion are a druid who can turn into things and summons some things 
 and last is the assassin who is good at unarmed combat.
  The game will go through 5 acts or different towns each one will have different quests. once you 
 finish the whole series your character will be around a level 30 or 40. thats when you start on 
 the next difficulty which is normal then you go to hell witch is the hardest. your character can 
 get to level 99 before it max out but levels get harder to get the farther you get into the game. 
 after each level you get 1 skill point and a set amount of stat points. the skill point can go 
 to one of your many skill choices that your character you chose has. the stats can go to a varietyof 
 different things that all affect your character with its chance to hit an enemy, your health, stamina, 
 mana, or strength and dexterity witch allow you to use certain weapons.
  There is many different ways to customize your character and make them how you want them to be 
 with the armor you put on them or the rings and atributes you give them.
  This game takes little time to get the hang of but takes a long time to know how to make a perfect 
 character or to know all the sets. If your new to this game you will love it just as much as any 
 of the others that have played it for a while. the online gameplay is free.
  If you are even considering buying this game just go out there and buy it. Its worth the money 
 spent. Im currently playing it right now and i bought it two or three years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiblespoop
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 20, 2005 9:14 am PT
Review:  Despite the things to know and need for your characters, Diablo 2 LOD is a great game worth owning. 
 Once you buy Diablo 2 you will probably want a friend that has it to tell you what the different 
 things are and how to make a good character. If you don't have a friend to help you, be prepared 
 for the huge noob hatred towards you. Once you get past the basic noobness that all games like 
 this have, Diablo 2 is a very addictive game that will keep you coming back and wanting new items. 
 This is defininatly a game ment for online play, leaving that if you do not go online much, you 
 should best stay away from this. Saying that, if you do use the internet more than 5 hrs a week, 
 you should but this game. You should also definitaly get this if you only have Diablo 2, otherwise 
 you will miss out on all of the awsome items and things that the expansion has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodsaw91
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Great Expansion
  Destruction Awaits
  Two New Character Classes (Assassin and Druid)
  Expanded Stash New Skills
  New arsenal of weapons, armor.
  Wickedly Enchanted Graphics, Gameplay, 
 New army of monsters like the death mauler, imps.
  Get to have 2 sets of weapons
  Requires full version of DIABLO 2 to play
  New Dungeons like the halls of pain, frozen river, 
 and the worldstone keep and chamber. my favorite quest is the 4th one when you go and defeat this 
 guy named Nihlathak which he was actually very easy. But the 6th quest was pretty tough. My favorite 
 Area in act 5 is the frozen tundra. You can also find stuff like runes, charms, and jewelry. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacredBed
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  i have played proboly like 500 hours + on this game. this game is highly addictive. its a good 
 mmorpg and haslots of features. there is dueling magic finding and other things. you get buddy 
 lists (duh) so u can add your friends to the game and yeah. there are a lot of jerks in the game 
 that will scam u if ur not quick on ur feet. lots of cool things to get like botd and stuff. the 
 graphics in the game are good and the sound is also cool. gameplay is also good and the levels 
 are huge. makes a great mmorgp and should be played by all. i was highly addicted to this game 
 untill my cousin came over and helped me get off the game. thank u kev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tron6691
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:42 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome.
  Its huge pakced with loads of classes and items.
  Even if you are not into RPGs its still worth a try, seriously.
  And the games only going at 
 the price range 5 - 10 pounds.
  The graphics kinda let the game down because this game isnt too old
  so the graphics could of 
 been a little better, but apart from that it owns.
  The value is awsome mutliplayer is great you can duel and do quests.
  Plus once you finish the 
 game on multiplayer you unlock new features i. e
  NightMare mode and Hell mode, which makes it 10x harder.
  
  That was my review on diablo 2 
 Lod - Tron6691 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebusrocks
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Very good game with a good set of battle net (multiplater mode,) and very good gameplay. One of 
 the best RPG games i played, in my opinion better than Guild Wars, but most people tend to like 
 Gulld Wars better. Very good skills and stat formation with a nice inventory system. single player 
 a bit boring, but as i said before, very good multi mode. variety of characters to choose from, 
 with a very good level system that goes up to 99, i need to fill up the other 100 spaces, s s s 
 s s s s s s s s s s s s s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormjumper
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:02 am PT
Review:  this game is truly amazing i find i have spent countless hours playing with friends and family. 
 there is a online friends list usable by text commands (/f l to see list /f a or /a f to add a 
 friend to list) .
  
  this game deserves to be on the shelf of every computer owner world wide. its has hours of gameplay 
 and a variety of characters from necro's to paladins, an barbarians to wizards. 
  
  this game also has randomly generated land scape's and items the item is picked between a list 
 of base items from weapons to armour, then there is a prefix and a suffix chosen from list of hundreds 
 or each one so you can receive something like mighty hammer of the bear or even mighty axe of the 
 bear but its not limited to these there are hundreds of combinations possible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RanXer0x
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  Sweet Jesus! The options, the leveling, the skilling... THE ITEMS!
  
  No other game I have come across has this amount of stuff to do and play for over several years. 
 How come, in other games you can't continue to learn new ways to work the game until it cries foul?!?
 
  
  Why is this the only game, that the items make you feel like a Pimp and skills that not only look 
 cool but compliment everyone?
  
  This game is not only retro, but will keep you retro until something better ACTUALLY COMES OUT 
 THIS DECADE.
  
  BTW, I put the learning curve at base level, but I'm still learning how to master the beast that 
 has consumed my spare time... it's crack I tell you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrChrono01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that i am only 14 years of age, i started playing diablo 2 when it first 
 came out and boy can i say that this game has sucked so many hours out of my life i could never 
 put it down it was simply stunning!
  Even to this date i will sometimes find myself starting a new character and getting through the 
 first few chapters!
  
  Gameplay - One of the best games to date the gameplay is phenomional, the magic, the weapons, the 
 characters, THE STORY!!
  Everything is done so perfectly that anything other than a "10" rating would be harsh!
  
  Graphics 
 - Not the best graphics ever but they deffinetealy suit the game perfectly!
  
  Sound- Between the hacking and the slashing the sound is beautiful and while i would not call it 
 perfect it is still awesome!
  
  Value - You get allot for your money here folks GO BUY IT! It is so cheap now of days, with this 
 games awesomeness and price tag not owning this game would be a shame to any serious gamer, and 
 this game keeps your occupied FOR HOURS, with 7 different types of characters (in the expansion) 
 and SO MANY spells for each this game just in single player mode can keep you satisfied for over 
 50 hours!!!!!!
  
  BUY BUY BUY BUY (no this is not wallstreet)
  But do yourself a favor and purchase this amazing game, it will be a choice you will love to have 
 made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaythekilla
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II was easily one of my top 5 favorite games of all time. I was really hyped for the LoD 
 expansion, and I must say, it was worth it.
  
  In terms of graphics and sound, not much is updated. Same as the original for the most part. However, 
 you can change the resolution from 640x480 to 800x600, which is really nice.
  
  The story of LoD switches its focus from Diablo to Baal. Along with his gigantic army, he invades 
 the Barbian lands of Harrogath. Harrogath is an all-new act, on top of the other four from Diablo 
 II. In my opinion, Harrogath is the best of the five acts. All of the missions give you great rewards, 
 such as runes, and the option to socket one of your weapons. 
  
  The two new characters, the Druid and Assassin, were great additions to the game, and are both 
 unique from the other five characters already in the game. You can almost think of the Druid as 
 a cross between a necromancer, paladin, and sorceress, and the assassin as a completely unique 
 martial arts specialist.
  
  The mercenaries in this game don't stink. You can equip them with different gear, they level up 
 with you, and you can resurrect them after they die. This is a pretty nice upgrade, as it gives 
 you a little more help.
  
  There are a few other helpful upgrades as well, such as runes, jewels, charms, and a larger stash. 
 
  
  In conclusion, anyone who enjoyed Diablo II should definitely pick up the expansion, Lord of Destruction. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NofrikinfuN
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 5:51 am PT
Review:  As with Diablo II, I spent many hours in the expansion simply building characters and hunting for 
 treasure. An excellent game, made more excellent by having friends to share it with. Battle. net 
 is the way to play, but it is a great game offline as well.
  
  That said, between one extra act, two extra character classes, charms, runes and jewels, they've 
 added quite a few new things in this expansion. (Not to mention the various new unique items, sets 
 and runewords, as well as crafted items.) Switching to 800x600 was a godsend as well, as Diablo 
 II's 640x480 was a little cramped at times. The overall graphical improvement is noticeable.
  
  A wonderful expansion to an already wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Peter
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 7, 2005 1:09 pm PT
Review:  NOW!! THIS GAME is good! Diablo 2 EX. IS amazing like the storyline is just no flaws in it and 
 the graphics.. wow the graphics brilliant!!. THe weapons are great and I love how theres so many 
 different varietys of weapons.... This game you can do alot of things that other RPg games really 
 dont have its fun if you never played this... you know just play it and see for yourself. The battlenet 
 for diablo can really get stupid cause everyone like trades and stuff and just hurrys to be superbly 
 good without really playing at all... And everyone has super sweet weapons by trading and stupid 
 stuff like that. ANd thats reallyt he only thing I dislike about this game... So if your lookign 
 to have a hell of a good time ... Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvercat2142
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 4:29 pm PT
Review:  First we got Diablo, then we got Diablo II now we get Diablo II : Lord of Destruction? Going off 
 normal trends of the gaming world, and not to mention movies the more they add to a series the 
 worse they seem to become. This is not so with the Diablos, well with Blizzard in general. Blizzard 
 has done an amazing job with these games, keeping them fun but not korny and hard but not queit 
 pull your hair out kicking and screaming hard. D2 LoD just grows off all the great stuff from Diablo 
 and Diablo II, yes it has it's bad spots but what game doesnt? Many of the people i know who started 
 this game hated it at first, their favorite part was trying to attack in town and getting the neverending 
 monotoneI cannot do that herewhich i will admit is amusing to sit there and try to kill Akara, 
 i would say i spent a good hour or two doing so laughing my head off. Then as in Diablo II we would 
 head off to Act2,3, and 4 but then what's this?? Tyreal makes me a portal to go where now? Harragoth? 
 wtf? We move on to this new and exciting place, where Baal the last remaning bother is making one 
 last push for that super twisted family of his, the world will be theirs!!!!! Well maybe... there 
 were a lot of people and toons who said otherwise. As you worked your way through Act 5 you learned 
 a lot about Baal and his plans, then you get down to the lowest level of the dungeon. You fight 
 your way up through endless groups of monsters each with some new spell or ability never before 
 seen. Finally you see it, the prize, the one the only BAAL. You get all ready for some spillin 
 of big bad ass demons and as you are talking smack to your monitor (face it we all did it the first 
 time) he laughs at you and summons some little punks. Now this may just be me but, i think i had 
 a major heat attack the first time i saw this, so after you fight off the bad ass mofos known as 
 Minions of Destruction (IMO harder than Baal himself) finally you get a chance of Mr. LaughingGas. 
 People ran in there expecting a fight much like Diablo or Mephisto, super easy... WRONG he was a 
 tough little boy. I do not know how many times i had seen people fall to him but it happened a 
 lot. Anyways what i am trying to say is that this game only adding one act and two new classes 
 is still amazing, despite the hackers. The game recieved good reviews around the horn from magazine 
 after TV show after convention, but i personally think that was more of a "hey its from the Diablo 
 series, its got to be good" and people never really took the time to play it out and try out the 
 synergies and so on. Personally i think that people did not give this game enough time and that 
 it is still not given the true praise it deserves. My above statment may make you think that i 
 thought it was not a very good game but i think that people judged before playing and seeing WHY 
 it was sooo good. Honestly had i not gotten sick of hackers i would still be playing... If you 
 are looking for a good game to try for a small LAN party i think this would be awesome (only 8 
 people in a room at a time) .........
  Oh by the way if you ever get on U. S. West and think you got game msg me, we will see ladies and 
 gentlemen........
  Silverhammer-92 Hammerdin
  Duels Won: around 500-650
  Duels Lost: 4 (actual count on lost) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djosh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  This game is just amazing in many ways. The amount of time it takes to beat, and the amount of 
 time I have spent playing online and just making new chars. The worst part of the game is the amount 
 of cheaters online. But other than that this game is worth the money. Amazing gameplay. Lots of 
 different ways through the game. Maps are different with every new game, so you never have the 
 same game twice. This is one of my top choices for games you should get for the pc.
  
  Gameplay- 10
  The game is one of those games you can't put down. You want to but you just can't. 
 With killing lots of monster, doing quests, leveling up, and finding rare items this game will 
 keep you coming back for more. 7 classes, and many different ways to train each class this game 
 has tons of replay time. Just be careful, you might be addicted to fast.
  
  Graphics- 7
  Back when the game came out the graphics were amazing, but now they lack compared to most games.
 
  
  Sound- 8
  Good sound, but not excellent. Usually good sound for the areas you are in, and the characters 
 do talk every now and then, but not as amazing as some games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer_marc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 7:54 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 was a fantastic game, this expansion is more of the same greatness which all fans of Diablo2 
 should own. After all, anything that makes this great game live on longer can only be a good thing.
 
  
  The new charecters are quite different from one another and each have their own style of fighting 
 weather it be hand to hand or spell casting. Just like in the original game, it suits all types 
 of players in the way they play their games.
  
  Weather you want to be an archer and sit back shooting enemies at a distance, be a Barbarian and 
 be in the middle of every battle, or use spell casting to raise the dead.. this expansion is the 
 same as the original 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanzoso
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  this game seriously had me hooked for about 2 years it is so addtictive but really repitive. the 
 graphics arent a big showcase for this game. but the gameplay is probly the best for online (if your 
 buying this game for single play DONT!!) you start off with lvl 1 character and can build him/her 
 up tp lvl 99 and good characer selection going from barbians to amazons and even sorcesses there 
 is alot of weapons and they each have there own goods and bads. the sound is really good makes you 
 feel its medevil. the best part of this game is dueling with people alothough people are really 
 anoyying becasue they keep nking you it is really fun becasue it tests how good your character 
 is against other players. and the act 5 is really helpful wit the quests you do helps your character 
 alot. this game is really addicting and i recmomand it to people who love rpgs (but requires alot 
 of your time) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colt-commander
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay in Diablo is amazing the many of quest that are in the game and the 5 acts you have 
 to go through with diffrent climates and the cinematics have amazing graphics better than most 
 game cinematics these days, and the many of graphics for characters and weapons are very well done 
 for a thirs person role playing game.
  The sound setup was really good aswell for the sound of all weapons and how the npc had talk to 
 you.
  As well as the interface for the game is really well done.
  This game supports multyplayer very well, join a party and advance through quest while all kills 
 are shared throughout your party
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 1:15 pm PT
Review:  A great game of any age, Daiblo 2 and it's expansion, Lord of Destruction. A game well worth the 
 time you waste playing it. Diablo 2 Lord of Destruction has great character classes and character 
 skills, the game also has a great array of weapons, armors, and other item to help in the quest 
 of fighting the greater evil. Truly, a great game. All sorts of characters from a raging Barbarian 
 to an ultimate magic user, The Sorceress ,From God-graced Paladins to deadly Assassins. Diablo 
 2 Lord of Destruction is a game from one of the greatest PC companies ever Blizzard Entertainment. 
 A thanks goes out to the whole Blizzard Entertainment work force for their superior skills and 
 ideas for making one of the greatest games in Pc game history 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXx_Phenix_xXx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game single player, a bit of a challenge really. but when played on closed or open 
 battle. net things get a hole lot better. your constantly trying to make the character that can 
 deal the most damage and has the best items so you can show them off to friend a foe alike. closed 
 battle. net even has its own form of currency: runes. it's pretty cool items (depending on their 
 value) are worth a certain amount of certain runes. 
  the storyline isn't the best but game-play makes up for it. just like most of blizzards computer 
 games I thought it was a really addicting game when played on-line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kentau
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 10:21 am PT
Review:  After you beat the diablo 2 on hell you need a new challenge?
  Then Lord of Destruction is the right game for you, with this pack you get a lot of new amazing 
 features.
  
  The most important thing is that you now have two new classes to play as.
  One is the druid, he is able to use the nature-power and transforms himself into a werewolf or 
 bear. Or if you want he can call wolfs and ghost which help you to defeat the evil in the world.
 
  
  The other new class is the assassin, she fights with her martial-arts ,shadow skills (she calls 
 her own shadow to help her) or you let your enemies come into your traps, wich are really deathly.
 
  
  Another new feature are the runes ,wich allow you to create magical words that make your items 
 more powerful. You also get tons of new special items, new sets and class-specific sets.
  
  But that's not all you also get a complete new chapter, where you have to fight Baal and his army.
 
  
  The graphics and sounds are very good like in every blizzard game.
  Sometimes you really think you're in this world full of monster which wait to be killed by your 
 hand.
  
  So go out and defeat the evil my hero...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_bi99man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the original Diablo, and I clocked countless hours on Battle. net with it. I 
 played Diablo II even more, as there was no doubt in my mind that it was the best game ever at 
 that point. As soon as I heard there was an expansion, I had to get it, and it did not dissapoint.
 
  
  Lord of Destruction improves upon the original game in just about every way, and the improvements 
 are evident as soon as you start playing. With a larger stash than the original, a quick weapon 
 switch feature, new socketing items and set items, 2 new character models, and a whole new full-sized 
 act, getting the expansion for Diablo II increases the value of the game in every way by unbelievable 
 amounts.
  
  The online play of Lord of Destruction isn't much different than the original over Battle. net, 
 and that's definitely NOT a bad thing. This game is going on 5 years old, and there's still over 
 30,000 players online at any given time. When you play it online, it's easy to see why. The game 
 has absolutely great online play, and it's free. It gets a little laggy on occation unless you 
 have a great high-speed connection, but that can be expected with a free online service especially 
 when it hasn't been updated in a while due to the fact that most of Blizzard's time and resources 
 right now are going towards World of Warcraft.
  
  Blizzard has always made top-quality, original, innovative, 10 out of 10 games, and Lord of Destruction 
 is no exception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:20 am PT
Review:  Simply put, Lord of Destruction is a great expansion. While the core of the game remains unchanged 
 from Diablo II this expansion does have its own unique flare. With the expansion you can expect 
 to get a new resolution setting (800x600) , new characters and a new chapter to the story line. 
 The new chapter will expose you to some new music, environments and a whole slew of new items. 
 The increase in resolution was a welcome change as was the new environments. Even the new items 
 (some of which are ridiculously powerful) mix things up a bit in the game. You may find yourself 
 relying on them as you set out to unravel this new chapter of the story. 
  
  Despite all of the above, the expansion does have its flaws. First off, the new characters aren't 
 that great. I had high hopes for the assassin but when I discovered how much she relies on "traps" 
 I was disappointed. As for the druid, he's as borish as the nercomancer. Only this guy deals with 
 nature. You summon some minions cast a spell or two and then sit back. That's even less exciting 
 than the excessive click fest other characters perform. Secondly, I found the ending to be rather 
 lame. I was hoping for a triumphant and glorious ending. Not something that casts doubts, despair 
 and the potential for sequals. Blizzard should have finished the story with this. The three brothers 
 are dead, done like dinner. 
  
  To settle things straight I would recommend this game to anyone who thoroughly enjoyed Diablo II. 
 For casual fans of Diablo II I wouldn't say this expansion isn't an essential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowman0610
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This game takes q while to learn whats good and what sucks although you may be called a noob don't 
 listen to those people heck, they don't know what u know or not. This game is underappreciated but 
 is so fun. i saw my cousin playing this while we were visiting and i was like woa thats sweet. 
 If you dont like this game then u don't have a pulse because things without a pulse (zombies and 
 other stuff) get killed. 10/10 BEST GAME I OWN FOR CPU!!!!! However i recommend looking for people 
 who will team up with you these people are your friends dont EVER GO FOR A DUPE OR GIVE AWAY YOUR 
 ACC PASS BECAUSE PEOPLE WILL TRICK U SOME PEOPLE ARE JERKS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctownsoldier09
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2: Lord of Destruction is my overall favorite game of all time, and I have spent multiple 
 hundreds of hours playing it. It has the best online capabilities of any game that I have ever 
 played. LoD is the true meaning of an expansion, while keeping the old game and adding tons of 
 new features and a couple more character classes. LoD requires no monthly fee and is now very cheap. 
 
  
  The graphics of LoD are solid, but not great. You see an overhead view and you can choose to either 
 have a zoom overhead view, or a more distant overhead view. LoD has what I believe are the coolest 
 enemy designs of any game in history, and there are hundreds of different kinds of them. 
  
  The sound of LoD is great, as you hear the voices and dark noises of the disturbed enemies. 
 When not in a game you hear multiple orchestraic pieces as you chat with other gamers.
  
  LoD has tons of spells, with each character having a different set. Each character class also has 
 their own advantages. For example, if you want to just be a regular spell caster, then you would 
 get a sorceress and not a melee blood thirsty barbarian. 
  
  The classes of LoD are Paladin, Barbarian, Assassin, Druid, Necromancer, Amazon, and Sorceress.
 
  
  Necromancers are dark and disturbed people who have developed milk white skin from studying their 
 entire lives in dank mausoleums. Necros can summon skeleton warriors and mages or a beastly golem 
 to protect him as he stands behind them casting curses on their enemies, while other Necros prefer 
 to kill the enemies themselves by casting novas of poison or spirits and shards of bone.
  
  Paladins are holy warriors who have been sent to rid the world of evil as they banish their enemies. 
 Pallys are the ultimate party character as they have auras that give advantages to their allies, 
 and weaknesses to their foes. Paladins can also call a bolt from the heavens to strike his enemies 
 where they stand. The most common Paladin skill used is a spell that sends multiple tiny mithril 
 hammers swirling through the air belting his foes to the ground. When used correctly the most powerful 
 of the men races.
  
  Barbarians are the race known for being unmatched in close combat as they crack the skulls of their 
 enemies using a sharp axe or powerful sword. Foes of the Barbarian cringe as they hear the spine 
 tingling battle cries of a distant Barbarian. For they know their doom is coming. Barbarians are 
 strictly melee and are my personal favorite.
  
  Assassins of LoD are rather masculine looking females with short black hair and pale white skin 
 dressed in black from head to toe. Assns use claws to their advantage as they quickly pierce the 
 armor and tough hides of their enemies. Assns also have the ability to set traps to shoot fire 
 and lightning at their foes or create a duplicate of themselves to fight alongside her.
  
  Druids are the race in LoD that are controllers of nature, as they can summon ravens, a grizzly 
 bear, or psychotic blood thirsty wolves to his side. Druids can also send small tornadoes and create 
 a hurricane to swirl around him freezing and killing anything that questions the power of the almighty 
 druid.
  
  Amazons are very muscular women that use bows or javelins. Zons are very versatile as they can 
 use almost any weapon in the game effectively and are very fast people. Amazons can create a Valkyrie 
 to fight alongside her or use spells to enchant her bow or javelins.
  
  Last but not least comes the Sorceress. Sorcs are women from the far east with dark tanned skin 
 and very high mana. Sorcs are strictly spell casting and can use any of the fire, lightning, and 
 ice magics to her advantage. When used correctly the most powerful of the women races.
  
  I definitely recommend Diablo 2: Lord of Destruction to anyone who has ever liked a videogame or 
 owns a computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinones22
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 9:27 am PT
Review:  It is easily the best PC game there is. Single player is great to play. God levels and fun stuff 
 to do. But the funnest part is of course online were everybody is. You can team up with friends 
 and beat the game or test your skill by fighting each other. Theres many things to collect. ANd 
 there is also many things to buy too. The Graphics are pretty good, the sound is great you can 
 hear the chracters when tehy are hurt and you can hear the enemy too. This expansion pack is great, 
 much better then the original Diablo two or Diablo 1 too. So if you are looking for the greasest 
 PC game there is, then pick this game up and go beat the ****** out of people and monsters!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max87
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  this expansion along with Diablo 2 is the best game ever the graphics may be out dated but the 
 gameplay and the fun factor has not been matched in this so called next gen console age. they really 
 need to make a sequel to this awesome game on the so called next-gen consoles. This game has everything, 
 lots of nice looking items, awesome powers, interesting story line, and unique boss monsters. This 
 game just is fun from beginning to end, plus it has free online play with battle. net which increases 
 just how amazing this game is. Games now a days aren't as good and u have to pay for online, this 
 makes us look spoiled with this slightly outdated gem of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akr321
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:45 am PT
Review:  This is just an awesome expansion. Although the obvious changes are the two new classes and the 
 fifth act, both of which are fresh, exciting, and awesome thanks to the gameplay tweaks and the 
 fine balancing, its the other little additions, like the 800x600 resolution and the larger stash 
 size, and the increased role of hirelings, which give LoD its added depth. It also offers a significant 
 challenge in the form of the fifth act, with its guard towers, and creepy walking dead that come 
 back to life, and those IRRITATING imps.... all of these make for something definitely more intense 
 and challenging than any of the previous acts. A must have for all Diablo II players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mand_450
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Yep dryden you are right. There are no skills such as crafting smithing stealing alchemy, well 
 execpt from the hoardic cube where you have to guess you way or look at blizzards homepage to create 
 something.
  
  The graphics, well they are good enough for a 2d game .
  
  Combat is only funny the first time you play it or when you meet a new monster, which dosent happen 
 that often. Just hack'n slash with no combos except the barbarians skills such as bash which require 
 mana of some odd reason. The same comes with bow and arrow. The only interesting to do in combat 
 is magic, but later in the game it becomes useless cause of to low damage. Also some of the magics 
 is useless asstatic trap which makes a totaly senseless effect.
  
  Playing over the net works very well except from the player limit. But at least players dosent 
 call you stupid things as in warcraft. The dual system is bad since a guy in level 99 can challenge 
 a guy in level 6, and just wait outside of town. Not fair.
  
  The plot is classic. A evil lord returns and wants to take over the world. Your quest is to capture 
 Mephisto, Diablo and Baal. The bosses deal at least a little bit of challenge, but baal is a total 
 pushover. He does no damage and he also run away like a baby when he dies, which he does quite 
 easy. And then he is the final boss???
  
  (Diablo ll = Diablo l) STILL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fougera
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok ok, so I was saying that Diablo II was amazing, well that was before I knew of the Lord of Destruction 
 (LoD) expansion set, which is even more amazing. They tweaked some bugs, which was very neccesary, 
 allowed the screen size to be changed, also freeing up the screen a little from the +skill and 
 +character points at a level up or whatever; also adding a fiftth act, a new boss, plus plenty 
 of new sub-bosses, along with even more items (by the way, have you seen the list of prefixes and 
 suffixes for items, it is frikkin huge) , and another two character classes. Now with a total of 
 seven different characters to choose from, or playing a full cooperative game with some friends, 
 it gives you a whole new strategy to create with all the diversity and different skills each character 
 class posesses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbader
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 9, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  You'll start and inturn almost stop school. And 4 years later nothing will have changed.
  This game never gets old. You thisnk you're bored with one character. So you start another and 
 another. Soon your girlfriend expects you to be playing diablo at night instead of coming to bed.
 
  But seriously this game is terribly addictive. You'll find yourself saying just one more baal 
 run or one more hour or even worse "Its 4 am already"
  Don't pick this one up unless you have lots o free time or you'll make it by neglecting at least 
 one important aspect of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krusher222
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2005 8:01 am PT
Review:  Even with its dated graphics and the hundreds of hours of life I have wasted playing this game, 
 the experience has still been nothing less than awesome. After completing thegame in both Normal 
 and Nightmare modes, Im still hoping to finish the final chapter in Hell mode sometime before 
 Christmas. After all is said and done, this is perhaps one of the most addictive games I have ever 
 played, couple that (without cheating) all the random drops, Uniques and Runes and other cool stuff 
 DIABLO II (Lord of Destruction) will be in my gaming arsenal for years to come. Even with my overmatched 
 level 56 Druid, Im still enjoying the arse whooping in Hell mode. 
  
  Revolutionary!!!!! Talk about madness, I have been playing this game since I cant even remember 
 on my old Pent III 800 and I have finally gotten around to moving it over to my AMD 3500. Needless 
 to say, I can see tons more hours hacking away in the near future!
  
  I NEED MORE DIABLO..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenitsu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This has always been one of my favorites. The thrill of waiting for that perfect random drop, the 
 free online service, and decent character variety to boot. It stands the test of time and I find 
 myself coming back for more. I'm sure you could wear yourself out on this format, but casual gamers 
 like myself should get seemingly endless variety here. This is especially true of the expansion. 
 The updated graphics, the better storage, addition of two new classes and the 5th chapter make 
 for a perfect experience. Lag and connectivity issues can be a problem, but it's not paid for... so 
 I didn't expect miracles. Great ladder and exclusive online items round out a tight creation. I 
 highly recommend this to just about anyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscougar1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:20 am PT
Review:  This game has revolutionised the way i thought about RPG's. The gameplay is unbelievable and you 
 will never run out of things to do. There is endless amounts of things to kill, quests to complete 
 and items to find. Your character will become your own personal human that you can mould and make 
 how you want to; strengths, weaknesses, skills, abailities, weapons. The classes include Amazon, 
 Barbarian, Druid, Assassin, Sorceress, Paladin and Necromancer. They each have there own special 
 abilities an skills which help you get through the game. They are all unique and each have amazing 
 skills that get better and mroe experiaenced as you become better and more experienced as you grow 
 levels. This game i would recommend to all, awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review:  it is unbelievably awesome. Diablo 2 is so unique in the way that the items are so unlimited and 
 the classes are so accurate. This is my favorite game of all time and i've already moved on, been 
 moved on, but i always seem to come right back. Battle. net just makes it even more meraculous. 
 It is the biggest onlinegaming multiplayer. From the spawns of World of warcraft and Warcraft 3 
 and Starcrat: ghost. Blizzard is said to be more advanced than the government when it comes to computers. 
 Their geneousness makes it fun to play online without the fear of cheating hacked items and heros. 
 Blizzard even makes a open sries of battle. net for diablo where hackers can pour all their cheap 
 tricks down without a cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAD-Nightmare
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  The game has all a player want to see and it's the only 1 unique game which is performed and most-played 
 after 5 years... every other game is nothing to this... SUPERIOR heavens-present in form of a game!!!!! 
 And Blizzard (the best game-software-producent ever know that and only because of that they doesn't 
 produce the most wanted game Diablo 3 ... And because this game seems to be very easy to handing... 
 so many and long instroductions woul'd be needed to know ALL about this game... but knowing all... 
 is absolutly impossible... the moment as the best game ever woul'd become his crown was the answer 
 only by diablo 2 LoD the The Legend of Zelda OoT, but OoC is a really great game but Nothing to 
 Diablo 2.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegetaforever
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game since it came out and i've been playing it ever since!
  
  Diablo created this kind of games and showed games like WoW to be like.
  
  Different kinds 
 of characters and LOTS of different skills and weapons.
  
  This game is highly addictive and will keep you entertained forever!
  
  Skills are both magic 
 and enhancements for your characters attributes.
  
  Skills look great and perform smoothly.
  
  With the expansion pack, you get 2 new classes of 
 characters, better weapons and more maps.
  
  Number 1 in my book!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtavciscool
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 was great. But LOD made it better. Featuring 2 new character classes and additional attacks, 
 and an extra act, Diablo 2 LOD is a must have for any Blizzard fans. Diablo 2 LOD (as with Diablo 
 2) features both a single player mode and a multiplayer mode in which you go onto blizzard's battle. net 
 to play with other people or your friends. Each room can support 8 people in multiplayer, and you 
 can either all team up and go against the forces of Diablo or do it all by yourself. There's 3 
 difficulty levels: Normal, Nightmare, Hell. can't . In each difficulty, the enemies don't get boosts 
 in how they fight, only SIGNIFICANT boosts to their HP, Life, Resistances, and the damage that 
 they do in one hit. There's 5 Acts (compared to the 4 acts in Diablo 2) , each with a very captivating 
 story. Gameplay is sort of 2D/3D overhead view. This game is mainly about creating your characters 
 (i think 7 or 8 character classes to create in the expansion) , getting them to high levels, and 
 equipping them with the best items you can find (usually dropped by monsters) . With godly items 
 equipped, you can enter hell difficulty no sweat. If for instance, you're a level 90+ and enter 
 hell difficulty, you'll die insanely fast, especially when you're facing more than one enemy.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Awesome graphics for Cinematics, however gameplay graphics needs improvement. Although cheap graphics 
 prevents lags on battle. net, Blizzard has done a good job in rendering the 2D/3Dish world of Diablo 
 2. 8/10
  
  Sound:
  Decent sounds and BGM suitable for the series. This is no ordinary game music, it sounds like orchestral 
 music. 9/10
  
  Gameplay:
  Very addicting gameplay, especially when there's more character classes provided in the LOD expansion. 
 However, after many months of playing Diablo 2 LOD, it gets sort of boring, and you won't want 
 to pick it up again. 9/10
  
  Value:
  Awesome value... if you buy the Diablo 2 Battle chest which provides you with all the CDs for Diablo 
 1, Diablo 2 and Diablo 2 LOD along with all the stategy guides, and the manual. Thus, 9/10
  
  Overall:
  8.9/10 Highly addictive gameplay, however, the repetitive gameplay with different 
 classes of characters leads to boredom, especially when you don't have luck finding any good/god 
 items using high magic find %. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crysallimir
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 10:36 am PT
Review:  The expansion to the sequel of a great RPG, Diablo. This expansion builds onto the original Diablo 
 2 with new characters, new items, a new act, and tons of new features.
  
  The two new characters are definitely useful. You can use either the quick Assassin, or the magical 
 Druid, who turns into animals. Or, of course, you can choose the five chars from the original game.
 
  
  The new features include a rune system. You can add the runes to weapons much like jewels. They 
 add certain bonuses to weapons that come in handy sometimes.
  
  The new act picks up where the game left off. *spoiler warning* You have defeated two Great Evils 
 and now you must kill the Lord of Destruction, Baal. To do this, you travel to a Barbarian camp.
 
  
  If the campaign gets old, get online and play on Battle. net. You have free usage of it, and it's 
 almost like an MMO.
  
  The sound and graphics are the same as Diablo 2.
  
  All in all, I reccomend this game to all who love RPGS. Trust me, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M3gaD3th
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 10, 2005 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2: Lord of Destruction
  
  Gameplay-10/10
  The gameplay is GREAT. Blizzard added a new act and two new classes so you can experiment even 
 more with a total of seven different characters. The gameplay is basically the same as the original 
 Diablo 2. The stat and skills system is great and Blizzard just added a new synergy patch to buff 
 up the skills. The gameplay is very fun and addicting. The single player is good, but Battle. net 
 is where this game really shines. You can play with up to 8 people in a game, trade items, duel, 
 and chat with friends. The combat system is innovative is even better with all the skills you can 
 unleash on your enemies. The battle system is very simple and is easy to understand, making this 
 game fun for new and veteran gamers. The game has a different taste depending on what character 
 you select and you must focus your stats on what your specific characters excels at, which adds 
 a strategic element to the game. The HUMONGOUS selection of items creates billions of possibilities 
 to beef up your character. The updates are great. There are 2 new characters, thousands of new 
 items, new enemies, new skills, and a new act.
  
  Story-9/10
  Blizzard is known for its great stories. Diablo 2 LOD is no exception. In this expansion you must 
 now hunt down Diablo's brother, Baal and destroy the World Stone, which is in the Barbarian lands. 
 You still have the original story with your quest to kill Mephisto and Diablo. This new story provides 
 a whole new act and background to fight your enemies. The story will have you enthralled. 
  
  Graphics/Sound-9/10
  Great Graphics. Great Sound. The graphics in this game shine especially 
 if you turn the game on its highest quality. the increased defintion really helps. The variety 
 of backgrounds and lighting provide a pleasurable experience to play in. All the enemies and the 
 bosses look exceptional. The sound is very realistic and the music is low so it doesn't overwhelm 
 the game. You can hear the shield clanging when you block an attack and you can here the thud and 
 rip of the enemy's hide when you strike them. The sound effects of the spells are awesome and so 
 are the visuals. Mephisto, Diablo, and Baal talk a little, and there demonic voice adds a nice 
 touch to the game. The cinematics are really great. The lighting and shadow effects make the game 
 look extremely realistic. 
  
  Controls-8/10
  The controls span from the mouse to the whole keyboard. Although this is a large area, once you 
 know what all the shortcuts and buttons are, you will be executing commands very fast. Blizzard 
 also allows you to assign "hotkeys" to your skills for easy transitions suited to each individual. 
 You can easily switch between skills, use potion and still attack your enemy with ease. Everything 
 is custom, so you can change it to fit your playing style better. 
  
  Play time/Replayability-10/10
  This is a LONG game. The single player mode takes a long time 
 to beat because you must level up your character enough to be able to take out the last boss. You 
 may think the multi-player mode will be very short, but Blizzard compensates. The more people in 
 a game, the stronger the monsters. The replayability is literally INSANE. I have been playing this 
 game for over 3 years and I'm still not tired of it. This game is longer than your favorite RPG. 
 With 7 different classes to play with, your options are unlimited. This game is just excellent. 
 You will find yourself trying so hard to find great items in order to trade for that legendary 
 item that everyone is looking for.
  
  Overall-10/10
  A true pleasure to play this game. Great gameplay, controls, story, graphics, and replayability. 
 The problems in Diablo 2 were all fixed in this expansion. The only problem I found was in Battle. net. 
 There are a lot of hackers that try to scam you and there are a lot of spammers. The recent 1.10 
 patch cut out a great deal of this though. Buy this if you haven't already. This game will keep 
 you busy for hours. The Battle. net is simply superb.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 29, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  It has been years since this game came out and yet we stil see it on the shelves. That is because 
 it can easily compete for the greatest game of all time title. 
  
  I know many people who dont even like the genre of game Diablo is in - but were blown away by the 
 gameplay - replayability - interface ... so on. 
  
  Everyone knows what the game is about so im not going to go into any details here. BUT what I want 
 to stress is this - - - - This game set the pace for every game not only in the genre but all games. 
 It showed that the quality of the game, the effort and time spent developing - sets the tone at 
 which it is going to be perceved for decades. 
  
  Blizzard proves it over and over again - now with World of Warcraft - which you can directly tell 
 was based on the foundations of Diablo1/2. 
  
  World of Warcraft has become a worldly game that has AGAIN set the bar high. The players now will 
 compare future games to World of Warcraft. Every company knows that if they want appeal to the 
 masses - they will be compared to WoW just like all games were compared to Diablo - and still are.
 
  
  If you havent ever played Diablo - to this day I would suggest you try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sig12047
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 6, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Diablo is something special that's for sure, I have never played a game so long or gotten into 
 one so much. The game involves a band of heroes joining together to destroy Diablo, Baal and Mephisto, 
 the Prime Evils, in order to save the world. Instead of another boring single player game like 
 this, it supports online with up to eight people.
  
  Online makes this game, there is no fee and it is where you can interact, play with or trade or 
 even kill other players. There are near limitless possibilities and because of that, this game 
 is like crack. I quit but I always come back and this new patch adds more to the game than one 
 would think at first glance. Five acts or not, online keeps you playing.
  
  Gameplay is a simple hack and slash, real time formula where you can be one of multiple classes, 
 all of whom get unique skills, weapons and advantages. The learning curve varies because it will 
 take quite a while to make a perfect character and longer to equip them unless you have some huge 
 luck. I made some bad ones myself, but if you look over a guide this game shouldnt give you much 
 trouble.
  
  Difficulty also varies because there are three difficulties, normal, nightmare and hell. Your resistances 
 drop and enemy strength increases with the difficulty. For beginners with bad gear, hell can be 
 just that but for a richer, more experienced player you can breeze right through the acts. As for 
 PvP, public games are a no-no until you get some decent items because you'll end up getting stomped 
 by other people.
  
  If you are a RPG fan looking for a real time, online adventure this game is for you. It is fun, 
 unique in the fact that it is from a long dead branch of RPG's and it will keep you playing for 
 a long while. After playing, I'm sure you will see why this is one of my favorite games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggy1234567
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 23, 2005 5:45 pm PT
Review:  i just recently bought diablo 2: lord of destruction. The only reason i did buy it was because 
 i had heard so much hype about the diablo series. All i can say is wow. for a game that is 4 years 
 old i was very surprised. The gameplay was done extremely well and i found it to be very engaging. 
 The graphics however were not nearly as good as games ive played during that time. Sound obviously 
 had taken time and effort and its shows. The game to me wasnt that hard to get use to and i didnt 
 have hardly any trouble beating it. When i got bored with the game i went online and played with 
 other players. Which i found to be very fun, since u got the chance to duel with other players 
 and see how strong your guy really is. There is one thing i wish the online gameplay had and that 
 is the ability to transfer your guy to be played online instead of having to start all over again. If 
 youve never played diablo 2 or the expansion i would suggest this game if your into highly addictive 
 fun games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowlinkzlda
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  My friend told me that this was a cool game but I never looked into the game my mistake. A year 
 later I look at it on Gamespot and become interested then i played it. It was a wonderful game 
 with a nice plot and gameplay. I thought it was fun when i played 1 player but multi player is 
 soo much better. when you start of you choose what class you are. You can be an assassin, barbarian, 
 paladin, sorceress, necromancer, amazon, or druid. When you level up you get skill points to put 
 into skills. Of certain types like sorceress gets fire ice and lightning.
  
  1. Gameplay
  Very enjoyable gameplay you can hit things with a club and lots of other things.
  
  2. Graphics
 
  NIce graphics especially for the spells.
  
  3. Sound
  The sounds are good bu the music is what set it back.
  
  4. Value 
  Hey it's an instant classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poggere
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  (Review in portuguese)
  
  Em diablo 2: Lod com novos pernsonagens, jogabilidade melhorada, engine 3d
  melhores grficos, 
 novos skills, monstros ,chefes e a historia cada vez mais melhor 
  contribuem para deixar o jogo cada vez melhor.
  Os personagens: em diablo1 havia 3 warrior, sorcerer 
 e rogue.
  No 2 a rogue saiu (dos personagens controlaveis e passou a hireling) entrou a amazon, o sorcerer 
 passou para sorceress, o warrior se dividiu em barbarian, paladin, e foi incluido ainda o necromancer. 
 J na expanso foi incluido a assassin e o druid.
  A jogabilidade: foi melhorada com atalhos e comandos mais precisos,
  atributos melhorados, e 
 com a possibilidade de contratar mercenarios para auxiliar na jornada (estes tambm com os proprios 
 skills e atributos) . O recurso de "salvar e sair" ao mesmo tempo agrada e desagrada; antes voc 
 podia deixar qualquer item no cho e salvar o game e o item no sumiria, agora toda vez que o jogo 
  salvo volta ao menu principal o que desagradou muito aqueles que salvavam o jogo a cada passo.
 
  Os graficos sofreram um sutil aprimiramento mas poderiam ser
  muito melhores e usar melhor sua engine 3d.
  Novos skills: cada classe tem seus proprios skills 
 e caracteristicas
  isso foi ainda melhorado com a verso 1.10.
  Novos Monstros com o aparecimento de classes de monstro diferentes
  como champion, Ghostly, possessed, 
 etc...
  Os chefes (agora 5) um para cada ato, respectivamente Andariel,
  Duriel, Mephisto, Diablo e Baal.
  De uma maneira geral Diablo 2 LOD tem um enorme numero de pros,
 
  e um pequeno numero de contras, o que no diminui nem um pouco o brilho deste fantastico game.
 
  Diablo com certeza  com certeza uma das melhores series de games de todos os tempos uma verdadeira 
 revoluo para o estilo role-playing.
  
  Esperamos anciosamente Diablo III !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObebadSlapmeFro
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2005 8:29 am PT
Review:  Its a highly addictive game that gets you pulled in right from the start.. Especially if you have 
 friends you can do all sorts of stuff like level together and do quests etc..
  Even though this game may seem pathetic compared to other online games.. its great for the price 
 meaning you dont have to pay monthly and we'll even till this date lots of people are still playing 
 this.. Good graphics, good sound, FUN Gameplay and Blizzard has done a good job with this.. Although 
 right now im not sure if its the right game anymore : ( so many hackers out there and rude players 
 you might not enjoy it.. maybe if that disturbs you, try ffxi or WOW i believe ^^" Have fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilfred_Owen
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 26, 2005 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II LoD is a good game but not a great game. Its online play with all the new patches made 
 the gameplay incredily awful. The screwed up all the class's and made everybody that plays the 
 game into a big hurry. There are no combo moves, amazons no longer use bows very often, there are 
 hardly any melee paladins anymore, and dueling is so unfair with the fact that there is an item 
 that lets any teleport. Also a majority of the players on Diablo II are 13 year old immature morons.
 
  
  Its got great gameplay, and I probably would have given it a 10 if I were younger. But going back 
 through it a second time around, its gameplay is medicore. I did enjoy some parts of the game, 
 but its annoying online play really ruined that exp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFox2892
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2005 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. People still play it from like 5 years when it was created. This game is so worth 
 the price on the count of that its in a battle chest along with two other great games. There is 
 no monthly fee and it cost 30$ so i totally reccomand this game. The graphics aren't all that but 
 what do you expect from a game in 2001. You can purchase items in the game and play with tons of 
 people at a time. There are three stories to it, Normal, Hard and HELL! I cant imagine this battle 
 chest deal getting any cheaper. I guarntee you will be in love with this game and will not regret 
 your purchase. When you pick up the battle chest you should deftinly play this one first. Diablo 
 2 is also a great game alothough iam not a big fan of the first one. You can make 8 charchters 
 max and theres about 6 to choose from. Your battle. net account may expire if you don't g on within 
 a month. The game is very easy to get gold in and not hard to get expiernce. You can get to level 
 99 max. I reallly doubt the pirce droping anymroe on the battle chest for diablo so i reccomand 
 picking it up soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ticoman333
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 19, 2005 8:24 am PT
Review:  I bought Diablo 2 A long time ago. Actually i dont remember when cause its so old. The game is 
 just highly addictive. The Single Player is nice..... But the Multiplayer is what im talking about! 
 The multiplayer is so fun.... the game does not need a lot of time for people who have little time 
 to game. To be honest i was so addicted to this game i played more than 8 hours a day while i was 
 in a hotel with my family on vacation! in my house i play ( u do the math) . Really i would recommend 
 this game it has every feature of an RPG i am still trying to find gamez like this one. i play 
 everysingle game so dont tell me u found one that is better. I tried wow, eq2, Lineage2, FFXI u 
 name it . This is THE BEST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 30, 2005 1:29 am PT
Review:  Diablo II was a terrific game, and has lasted years. It can still be played and enjoyed. A good 
 expansion to this great game would be hard to pull of, but on the whole Blizzard succeeds.
  
  Lord of Destruction sees you questing to defeat the last Prime Evil, Baal. You play in the 
 Barbarian Highlands and Mountains. 
  
  Two new characters are added, the Assassin and the Druid. Both are a good addition, with some interesting 
 spells. A lot of small, but great, changes have been made, such as dual weapons and many new items.
 
  
  However, Lord of Destruction is somewhat disappointing. The campaign is easy to finish, and the 
 new enemies are uninspired. Also, the quests in Lord of Destruction are also very average, with 
 nothing we haven't seen before.
  
  However, this is still a great game. If you are a Diablo this is definitely a must, as the new 
 characters and additions cannot be missed, and you'll wonder how you ever played Diablo II without 
 them.
  
  If you are any sort of Diablo fan, this expansion is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoNu7
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2005 2:06 am PT
Review:  Diablo I attracted tons of fans, and Diablo II Lord of Destruction has done so yet again. This 
 is a great game that any RPG should at least try. Of course there are many new and better RPGs 
 that have come out, but this is still a great classic.
  
  Diablo II has some really nice gameplay. It is very fun for the first 30 levels or so as you learn 
 new spells, and they provide a nice variety to the game. Later on, the gameplay becomes repetitive 
 as you constantly use the same spells and abilities over and over again. You are forced to use 
 different abilities as you encounter enemies with certain immunities, but even so, youll still 
 be using just those 3 abilities. Obviously, this may seem boring, but there is such a wide variety 
 of monsters that you dont get bored until youve played through the game a large number of times. 
 
  
  One aspect of the game that has really let the game down is the graphics. There are a few changes 
 since its predecessor, but they arent that great compared to games of that era. The figures are 
 still blurry, and this is the same as the ground and such. Everything is still dark and murky like 
 Diablo I, and although this is to help set the mood of the game, it tends to make the game a bit 
 too moody. The graphics of the abilities arent too bad, but they arent very detailed either. 
 This has let the game down greatly.
  
  The sound effects are very nice and lifelike. Of course the music is quite terrible, but that isnt 
 the case. Its those sound effects that matter. The lightning bolts make a swishing sound as they 
 pass by you. A melee attack on a monster will make it groan in pain, and it is very lifelike.
 
  
  The value of this game is definitely worth it. The game is quite cheap now that it has come out 
 for so long, and for a low price, you can get a really nice game.
  
  In conclusion, this game is definitely worth a try. The graphics have ruined the game greatly, 
 and the gameplay is somewhat repetitive, but it will definitely keep you interested for many hours 
 to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolarisDeschain
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2005 1:47 am PT
Review:  Im finishing the Diablo run with Diablo 2: Lord of Destruction, the expansion pack to the phenomenal 
 sequel to Blizzards classic, Diablo. Diablo 2 tells of the survivors of the second attack on Diablo, 
 and their subsequent quest to destroy Baal, the Lord of Destruction.
  The gameplay to the Expansion pack to Diablo 2 is, unsurprisingly, the same as Diablo 2. However, 
 its still wonderful. It moves along quickly, adding in one more act to serve as an epilogue to 
 Diablo 2. Things move along swiftly and deftly, and the wonderfulness of the location in what may 
 be the last part of Diablo really makes you love playing. Other than that, its pretty much the 
 same old thing. Except for the introduction of two more classes of characters, the changeling and 
 the Amazon, that is. That would normally be a detriment, but since this is just an expansion and 
 not a full-fledged sequel, like the oft-rumored Diablo 3, I wont count anything off.
  The graphics are the same as before. The ambience of the closure to Diablo is wonderful. It also 
 seems a bit sad. Tragic, is probably closer to the mark. Well, anyway, the character designs are 
 the same old wonderful, the boss designs, especially Baal, are wonderful, and there is a sense 
 of desperation going around in this one. Maybe its the graphics adding to the tone of finality 
 about Diablo. Well, even if that is it, the graphics are still great, not superb, and definitely 
 not perfect.
  The sound is just as good as well. The creatures scream, the weapons strike, and strike hard, and 
 the character screams while getting mercilessly beaten. The music is still wonderful, which brings 
 me to a point on Diablo 2. In Diablo 2, theres something I have a complaint with. Its kind of 
 a complaint, and kind of praise. Theres a time, in Diablo 2, where you return to Tristram. Once 
 there you find the place overrun with Diablos minions. The houses are on fire; most of the townspeople 
 have left. Pepin is dead, Wirt is dead, and Griswold has been corrupted by the monsters, and is 
 now a minion of Diablo. Deckard Cain is suspended in a cage high above his fountain. During this 
 brief intermission, with Griswold as the boss, its the music. I would have liked to see the EXACT 
 music from Tristram. Just think about that slow-paced acoustic rhythm, in contrast to the carnage 
 going on in the town. It would have been nice. However, some might see that as refusing to inject 
 some variety. So, having the music REMINISCENT of Tristram was a good move. But come on, Diablo 
 had come out years before, and, quite simply, I miss the music and love that song. That has nothing 
 to do with the sound of Diablo 2: Lord of Destruction, though.
  There is no difference in replay value from Lord of Destruction to Diablo 2. Well, there is. Its 
 actually better. There are two more people to play as, as well as going back with all the OLD character 
 classes you can carry over from this game to the next, as well as Battle. net, showing it off to 
 friends, and of course after defeating Diablo 2 itself for the second time youll have to play 
 this one and get the whole Diablo experience. So, all in all, the replay is great.
  I love this game. I love as I did the predecessors, and I love how they made this act seem so tragic. 
 This is a wonderful game, and worth a purchase is you at least have Diablo 2. You kind of have 
 to, I guess. Anyway, its great. Play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harvest_eva
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2005 11:00 pm PT
Review:  It seems a little to review a game that has been out for a long time, but this game is so addictive 
 that i just want to keep playing it (until diablo 3 comes out) .
  
  The game's graphic is not that impressive, it's not fully 3-D, and has a low resolution of 800 
 x 600. But that doesn't prevent the game from being one of the best game ever created. The gameplay 
 is simply amazing. It's easy to pick up, but gets deep if you are into PvP online. Each class has 
 its unique skills and attributes, hence prevents one class (or skills) dominate the whole game. 
 The game's huge variety of weapons, armors, and runes that makes the gamers crave for more. The 
 game has several flaws also. Long time of mouse clicking can be repetitive and boring. Lack of 
 the ability to modify your own level and quest also is a down side of this game.
  
  Overall, the game is superb. It (along with diablo 1) truly revolutionized WRPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 15, 2005 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 LOD is considered better then its predecessor, why you ask?. The reason why is because 
 it took everything that diablo 2 was well known for, and made it better by 10 fold. Treasure chest 
 is bigger, more items, more characters, more skills, and a whole knew act. With all these things 
 together, it don't sound like much but the instant you start playing it you will notice the difference 
 between the expansion and the original. Also the story expands where the original Diablo 2 left 
 off, where diablo was killed by (you) . Baal is the new villain, and you get to be mr. macho and 
 kick his sorry butt back to hell. Thankfully though all those players out there that think you 
 have to start ALL over again, not so, the game will just instead of letting you talk to people, 
 you can now talk to tyrael to go to act 5 the land of the Barbarians. So you guys i suggest playing 
 this game one of the most addicitive games, known to gamers today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wasdie
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 14, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  Diablo II Lord of Destruction is by far the best role playing game ever made, or is the expansion 
 to the best role playing game ever made that makes the two games the best ever. 
  
  Why you may ask, well simply put, size. No other game is quite as large as these two games will 
 ever be. There are 7 diffrent characters, each with their own unique skills. Around 30 of them. 
 Each character has a diffrent main ability, the palidens use aroras to streangthen themselves, 
 the barbarians just hack n slash everything they see, amazons use their bows to the best, and my 
 favorite, the necromancer, raises skeletons to do his dirty work for him. Now these are just some 
 of the posiblities of each character. They also have other skills that can be used for fighting, 
 like the necromancer can also use bone spells that shoot stuff. 
  
  The graphics are yes a little out dated, but they are pefect for this type of a game. Each enviroment 
 is rich in detail. Each character has their own apperance and figure. Each enemy looks diffrent 
 in size and color. The graphics are even better when there is so much going on at once. And because 
 the graphics arnt the best, the game preforms on basicly any computer.
  
  The size is the biggest thing. The game is divided up into 5 Acts. Act one takes you through a 
 grassland, forest, medievil type of thing. Act two takes you throught the desert and old desert 
 ruins. Act 3 takes you to the jungle and an abandoned city. Act 4 takes you through the firey pits 
 of hell. Act five takes you through the northern mountains and cliffs. 
  
  The voice acting is also superb. So is the rest of the sound in the game. You will know what monsters 
 are coming at you just by what sound they make. 
  
  The top-down perspective is great, giving you full view of the action. Also you can toggle a map 
 that is transparent and takes up the whole screen, you can see through it. 
  
  The controls are perfect, you do 90% of the things with the mouse. You can make hotkeys for each 
 spell, and look at all the menus with other hotkeys. The interface is easy to get used to and use. 
 
  
  But the biggest part is the online play. It is just like the single player, just you can team up 
 with 7 other people and destroy Diablo and his minons from hell. The difficulty is increased when 
 there is more people playing the game, but more exp is given and better items are dropped when 
 there are more people. 
  
  There are 3 diffrent main difficulties. Normal, Nightmare, and Hell. You unlock Nightmare after 
 you complete normal, and hell when you complete nightmare. The enemies in the higher difficulties 
 are the same but 100 times more powerful. What you could kill when you are level 1 in normal act 
 1 you now need to be level 30 to kill in nightmare act 2 and around level 70 to kill in Hell mode. 
 But the difficulty has its advantages, like more exp, and better weapons. In act 1 of nightmare 
 you will find better weapons than act 5 in normal mode.
  
  This is the rpg ever rpg tries to live up to. If you have a computer, you dont even need the internet 
 and you have $40. Get the battle chest that contains ,the original diablo, dibalo II, and diablo 
 II lord of Destruciton, and a stratagy guide that is now completely useless because it is based 
 off of a older version. 
  
  GET THIS GAME. You probably have this game already but if you dont, GET THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2005 3:08 am PT
Review:  The Lord of Destruction expansion pack is one of the only good expansions packs [for any game] 
 that I can really call a success without thinking twice. This expansion adds hundreds of new items, 
 two new character classes and now a new online patch [1.10] that finally gets rid of most of the 
 hackers and cheaters.
  
  Lord of Destruction had the difficult task of trying to improve on an already superb game alone. 
 Diablo II is one of the most addicting and immersive games I've ever played or owned. It is so 
 engaging that you will miss many important social functions which are a normal part of life. This 
 game kept me from the outside world for about two years, no exaggeration. 
  
  Now that the expansion pack improves on the graphics by adding more resolution options the game 
 looks alot better. The actual graphics engine has not been changed (good news for the fans of D2) 
 but has been smoothed and improved quite noticably.
  
  The new features for Lord of Destruction include... more socketables... runes and jewels each adding 
 more and more customization to your equipment. Ability to forge "runewords" which are specific 
 combinations of runes which give bonus powers to your gear. Charms have been added, which are small 
 trophies that add bonuses to your characters damage and attributes. Another major enhancement is 
 a WHOLE NEW ACT! 
  
  Lord of Destruction lets you enter the newly created Act 5 where you must find and slay Diablo's 
 brother... the Lord of Destruction himself... Baal. Baal is a worthy adversary protected by hundreds 
 of minion bodyguards who will stop at nothing to destroy you. 
  
  Two other equally significant additions are the inclusion of two new character classes, the Druid, 
 which masters the skills of the Earth. The Druid has the ability to raise animal allies, cast spells 
 derived from the forces of nature and morph into a werewolf or werebear! Also added is the Assassin, 
 a deadly vixen with the ability to wield twin claws, use martial arts and use the masteries of 
 stealth and the shadow. 
  
  *NEW* Now that Blizzard has added the new patch [1.10] the gameplay has become even more challenging. 
 No more hacked items are on Battle. net (Blizzards Online Server which is FREE!) . No more cheaters... 
 all hacked items were deleted upon the patch's implementation. Meaning that things were finally 
 fair and square in the world of Battle. net. This made things once again more enjoyable and fun.
 
  
  Also included in the patch is the ability to create synergies which are bonuses derived from combining 
 certain skills to create ultimate damage numbers and a more effective character. 
  
  Even more items were added with the patch... and a new type of online play, the Ladder Mode. This 
 is a seasonal event where you compete for bragging rights and a spot on the D2 Ladder (Hall of 
 Fame) . At the end of each season each character becomes a non-ladder character and loses all ladder 
 specific gear but gets to keep his or her champion with a specialized recognition of being a ladder 
 champion.
  
  Another interesting feature added is the "world event." Where a large "Uber-Diablo" walks the Earth 
 holding inside a special charm that can only be obtained by finding and slaying the Uber-Diablo 
 (which isn't easy) . 
  
  In closing I will leave you with this... if you like hack and slash, Dungeons and Dragons style 
 games then this is the pinnacle of all of them. This is the best... This is... DIABLO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RM8978
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2004 5:36 am PT
Review:  What can I say? Though the graphics are nothing to get excited about, the game's leveling system 
 and diverse character classes are completely addictive. The effectiveness of the leveling system 
 is proven by Blizzard's decision to let it influence World of Warcraft's skills system. The gameplay 
 itself will be monotonous for some that don't care much for hack-and-slash/spellcasting action, 
 but for those of us who do enjoy this type of game, the combat system is very in-depth and there 
 is a good variety of items and enemies. Perhaps the greatest feature of this game is the ability 
 to craft your own items if you happen to find the correct ingredients to make it happen.
  
  This game is pretty old now, so it should be really cheap to buy. Buy it used if you can. Get the 
 expansion pack for it, "Lord of Destruction." It should be in every serious gamer's collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FUBUSH
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2004 6:47 am PT
Review:  Blizzard has been known for making truly revolutionary and flawless games that create an incredible 
 experience for millions of people worldwide. They've created classics such as Warcraft and Starcraft 
 and of coure my favorite game, Diablo II and of course it's expansion. These games are incredible 
 and shouldn't be missed. No game has ever held up to me as LOD has. Over the past three years, 
 I've probably spent 500 hours playing this. And I'm still not done yet. It's just that good. And 
 if you think that's impressive, you haven't seen the amount of time other hardcore fans have put 
 in.
  
  In LOD, you try to stop the three prime evils (Mephisto, Diablo, and Baal) from their plans to unleash 
 hell upon the mortal world so that they gain ultimate power. Even if you think that story is pretty 
 stupid, well your wrong. LOD has a great story told from two perspectives. The first which you 
 live through in the game and the second being told by cutscenes. These two stories come together 
 quite nicely. And the ending is open-ended so that a future game could be made depicting the worst 
 from what happened.
  
  You could play LOD by seven different classes that are equally balanced. This does create alot 
 of depth in the game as each class has different skills and attributes who can also equip different 
 items from which there are thousands. This create literally millions of combinations of how you 
 play the game. This gives every go around a truly different experience. This also can dish out 
 many surprises. The items you can recover are randomly dropped from monsters, some of which are 
 pretty rare. The game can become pretty hard at times and always keeps you on your toes, especially 
 in HELL difficulty which encourages you to team up with other people to help you. There are just 
 so many factors in the game, you just don't know what to expect.
  
  The music in the game is done exceptionaly well and it totally fits the content and the enviornment 
 in the game. The rest of the sounds are pretty realistic. However, the greatest part of the sound 
 is the greast cast of voice actors which help pull you into this immersive world.
  
  This game doesn't have the best graphics, even 4 years ago when it was made. However its still 
 a heavliy detailed world thta has a good amount of tilesets through its levels. Some of these details 
 are how your character changes appearance as you equip different items.
  
  This is definetly a game that you shouldn't pass up. Especially for it's low price today. While 
 I was reviewing this, when I punched in the score, it said 9.9, which is really what it should 
 be. I don't know why it says 9.8. Anyway Blizzard has made another fine game that will last for 
 many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Diablo 2, probably one of the most successful games ever created. Made by Blizzard, 
 D2 is the sequel to the popular game Diablo, in which your character goes after Diablo in an attempt 
 to destroy him, but in the end gets taken over by him or something, which opens the doors for D2.
 
  
  Gameplay: D2 is a fairly simple game to play, almost 99% of its gameplay consisting of just point 
 and click. You start off in a small camp, and from there, set out to destroy evil in all its forms, 
 from small evil lords in the area, to the 3 Prime Evils themselves, Mephisto, Diablo ( yes for 
 real this time ) and Baal. After completing one Act ( which consists of mainly 6 major missions 
 and new places ) , you move on to the next one. Thru the game, by killing monsters and opening chests 
 and crates, you can gather gold ( which you can use to purchase weapons/armor/etc ) , and weapons 
 and armor themselves. Almost all weapons and armor have the ability to be upgraded with jewels 
 and gemstones that also fall from monsters. Once added to the weapons, it gives them additional 
 properties ( I. E. Fire for Ruby's, poisons for Emeralds, etc. ) . As you fight, you gain experence, 
 which makes your character level up. When you level, your given a number of status points to put 
 into a number of attributes, which will raise your HP, Mana, atk power, etc. Also, you can add 
 a new skill point into a number of unique skills that your class of character has. For example, 
 Necromancers have skills to raise the skelletons of the dead monsters you've killed, and have them 
 work for you, and Druids have the power to summon Spirt Wolves and transform himself into a Werewolf, 
 all to the cause of destroying the Prime Evils and freeing the world.
  
  Story: The story is fairly simple, yet entertaining. Diablo lives, and it is up to you as the main 
 character, to hunt him down, along with his 2 brothers Mephisto and Baal, and destroy them before 
 they take over the world with there evil.
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics of the game are fairly good for an overhead game. When you put 
 on new armor or use a new weapon, your characters sprite changes to reflect the new item, which 
 is awesome as it add's a nice air of personality to your characters. You'll be hard pressed to 
 find 2 people who have identical looking characters. Sound, the sound is good, it can be annoying 
 at times, but overall id give the sound a 6/10.
  
  Replayability: This game is replayable. After completing the game, you unlock the ability to play 
 on a harder level ( luckily with the same character ) . There are 3 levels total, so there is much 
 room for replaying.
  
  Final Recommendation: Overall, i give D2 a score of 7.2/10. Its a good game with a nice storyline, 
 and is presented fairly well. The gameplay is easy, only taking a few minutes to really learn, 
 and can be highly addictive. ( Game rated with Lord of Destruction expansion pack ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2004 11:52 am PT
Review:  .. like new charecters, items, quests etc.
  
  Diablo 2 was a fantastic game, this expansion is more of the same greatness which all fans of Diablo2 
 should own. After all, anything that makes this great game live on longer can only be a good thing.
 
  
  The new charecters are quite different from one another and each have their own style of fighting 
 weather it be hand to hand or spell casting. Just like in the original game, it suits all types 
 of players in the way they play their games.
  
  Weather you want to be an archer and sit back shooting enemies at a distance, be a Barbarian and 
 be in the middle of every battle, or use spell casting to raise the dead.. this expansion is the 
 same as the original, but with more added. All Diablo 2 owners should get this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijorat
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2004 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Expansion... i. e. to add on to something that already exists. Diablo II is an awesome game by itself, 
 but Blizzard Entertainment really brings it home with it's expansion. This set adds a whole new 
 Act and two new characters. Playing Diablo II without this is like watching a movie till just before 
 the climax and the turning the TV off. More exquisite in Game Movies, more characters (Assassin 
 and Druid) , more items, more enemies, more, more, more.... need I say more.
  
  The two new charaters are just as well thought out and customizable as the other five. The assassin 
 has martial arts and traps skills, and the druid can summon beasts, transform himself, and cause 
 damage with volcanos and hurricanes.
  
  This is definately a must have if you have Diablo II. The game really is incomplete without it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JML897
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 8, 2004 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Diablo II was easily one of my top 5 favorite games of all time. I was really hyped for the LoD 
 expansion, and I must say, it was worth it.
  
  In terms of graphics and sound, not much is updated. Same as the original for the most part. However, 
 you can change the resolution from 640x480 to 800x600, which is really nice.
  
  The story of LoD switches its focus from Diablo to Baal. Along with his gigantic army, he invades 
 the Barbian lands of Harrogath. Harrogath is an all-new act, on top of the other four from Diablo 
 II. In my opinion, Harrogath is the best of the five acts. All of the missions give you great rewards, 
 such as runes, and the option to socket one of your weapons. 
  
  The two new characters, the Druid and Assassin, were great additions to the game, and are both 
 unique from the other five characters already in the game. You can almost think of the Druid as 
 a cross between a necromancer, paladin, and sorceress, and the assassin as a completely unique 
 martial arts specialist.
  
  The mercenaries in this game don't stink. You can equip them with different gear, they level up 
 with you, and you can resurrect them after they die. This is a pretty nice upgrade, as it gives 
 you a little more help.
  
  There are a few other helpful upgrades as well, such as runes, jewels, charms, and a larger stash. 
 
  
  In conclusion, anyone who enjoyed Diablo II should definitely pick up the expansion, Lord of Destruction. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2004 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Fun for awhile, but then you realize it really is a bunch of mouse-clicking and minimal actual 
 strategy. I got all the way thru DiabloII and then tried the add-on. The graphics hold up well; 
 that is, for a 2D graphic game.
  
  The magic and summoning heroes have some strategy to them but the melee characters are boring. 
 Click. Click. I would give this game a higher rating if there were combo moves or some sort of 
 timing required to get a good hit. but there is nothing like that. 
  
  Indeed, anyone who calls this a RPG should have a look at Baldur's Gate II or even Star Wars Knights 
 of the Republic. In those games the combat has _real_ choices as you build the characters. In Diablo 
 2, your choices about character development begin to feel generic after you have played one time 
 through the game. 
  
  I bet multiplayer is fun but I haven't tried it. 
  
  This is a truly classic game, but its just not a very deep one. They REALLY should remake this 
 game and add a little more RPG depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyRules
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 24, 2004 7:39 am PT
Review:  This game has certainly aged, however it has aged well. For anyone who is looking for a review 
 to come out, years after this game is released, look no further than here. Diablo II, is the kind 
 of sequel that took all of the gamers requests from the original Diablo and implemented them, thus 
 transforming the game into something that every fan wanted. It expanded all of the options that 
 were originally in the game, making the game much larger in scale. The core of the game is exactly 
 the same as its predecessor. In a nutshell if you liked the first one but never got around to trying 
 the go and purchase the collection. This game will entertain for some time and the story cinematics 
 are entertaining in and of themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mathaies
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2004 11:28 am PT
Review:  I think that this is a good game and you can play many hours of game play and there is many of 
 items and tons of charecter builds. the max charecter level is level 99 and you get +1 skill every 
 level and you get +5 stat points every level. There is a few skill quest's and 1 stat quest for 
 every difficulty there is normal, nightmare, hell mode there is 7 charecter  
 and a paladin) (expansion charecter classes druid and assasssin) you cna also use the regular charecter 
 classes on expansion. if your wondering if this game is hard. well it is a little bit but thats 
 just when you start for your first time. But if you got good items and went up on good skills and 
 good stats then it will be very easy and you wont be able too die very easy. i rate this game
 
  gameplay:9
  graphics:8
  sound:8
  value:9 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
