-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Die by the Sword
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/diebythesword/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 10, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 162 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tantrum Entertainment
Developer: Treyarch
Genre: Action
Date:     Feb 28, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Die by the Sword goes well beyond its almost admirably typical premise to deliver a visually stunning, 
 terribly challenging, and often awe-inspiring dungeon hack. 

 Another damsel in distress, another wicked warlock bent on world conquest, and another hapless hero 
 with nothing but the sword in his hand and the shirt on his back - you've heard it before. But 
 Die by the Sword, a 3D third-person action game, goes well beyond its almost admirably typical 
 premise to deliver a visually stunning, terribly challenging, and often awe-inspiring dungeon hack, 
 though one not without its fair share of shortcomings.  

 Die by the Sword threatens to introduce a revolutionary new play mechanic. Its technology is such 
 that you are granted complete control over the hero's sword arm. Using a mouse or numeric keypad, 
 you can order Enric to swipe his sword from point to point in any direction, and his momentum will 
 determine how much damage he inflicts. At first glance you might guess that this system allows 
 for a near-infinite variety of attacks, just like the box says. On closer inspection, though, you 
 realize that there is in fact a proper way to do things. More often than not, you'll be swinging 
 right to left and stepping into the swing in order to add more bite. This effective attack looks 
 basic enough when performed onscreen, but demands you quickly push as many as four buttons in sequence 
 on the keypad. Going for fancier attacks just doesn't pay off, though once in a while you might 
 get lucky. So in the end, Die by the Sword's intriguing control method just makes it a pain to 
 accomplish what a competent swordsman like Enric should be able to do with little effort. While 
 a simplified arcade mode exists, allowing you to perform most types of moves at the touch of a 
 button, it's disappointing to use knowing that a less restrictive, if more convoluted, control 
 scheme is available.  

 Aside from swinging your sword around, you can perform various functions typical of this type of 
 game including sidestepping, jumping, crouching, and climbing. Unlike the fighting mechanics, moving 
 Enric around is relatively straightforward and effective. Of course, frolicking around won't save 
 you from a couple of angry man-sized mantises; you'll spend most of your time with Die by the Sword 
 trying to fight against decidedly unfair odds, and most of that time will be spent dying and starting 
 from the previous autosave. Though Die by the Sword promises supreme precision control over your 
 various fighting moves, in practice your best bet is to run like a chicken and try to go for cheap 
 shots when the enemy isn't looking. Defending with your shield is almost impossible, and even if 
 you master the control, you'll still die half the time just because the enemy hops up and kind 
 of runs into you with his ax, knocks you down, and then kills you dead as you clamber to your feet. 
 In other words, hit detection and damage infliction often feel just plain wrong or unfair, if not 
 simply inconsistent. Meanwhile, a recklessly panning and sweeping camera angle won't make your 
 life any easier, though you can toggle through a few different perspectives to best suit the situation. 

 With three fighters onscreen and one wacky camera, you'd best be armed with a state-of-the-art PC 
 with a wicked-fast 3D accelerator if you hope to squeeze a decent frame rate out of this game. 
 Even the minimum detail setting will force a lower-end Pentium to its proverbial knees. With enough 
 horses under the hood, though, Die by the Sword is graphically amazing. You'll fight your way through 
 a number of fantastic yet hauntingly realistic settings including a massive set of gears, a subterranean 
 Dwarven steelworks, an ancient temple teeming with traps, and an ominous swamp. Along the way you'll 
 have to fend off scores of monsters including boarlike Orcs, doglike Kobolds, froglike Trogs, and 
 more. None of these enemies is terribly original, but they look real enough in Die by the Sword 
 to be interesting, if not fearsome. The boorish chain mail-clad hero Enric and all his foes are 
 fully three-dimensional and look great as they run about trying to slice one another's heads off. 
 Each successful strike registers visible damage to the target, such that once any given monster 
 is near death, it's going to be in really bad shape and likely head to toe in cuts and bruises 
 - that is, provided its head and toes are still attached. In Die by the Sword, if you repeatedly 
 strike at any appendage, it's liable to be chopped clean off. Better still, once the poor thing 
 is resting in pieces, you can continue to hack away at its remains for as long as you damn well 
 please.  

 To no great surprise, Enric is chock-full of clever and not-so-clever one-liners that he'll spout 
 repeatedly over the course of the game. Die by the Sword doesn't offer much in the way of a soundtrack 
 since throughout most of the game you'll be focussing on the clangs and clamor of battle. What 
 music exists is of an impressive, if not entirely memorable, orchestral variety that's well suited 
 to the game's theme. Meanwhile, said clangs and clamor are loud and appropriate, though at times 
 repetitive to an aggravating extent. For instance, the Kobold language appears to be composed of 
 but one squealing syllable.  

 An excellent tutorial complete with slick voice-over will teach you much of what you'll need to 
 know in order to survive the quest mode. The quest itself, certainly the highlight of Die by the 
 Sword, details Enric's blood-soaked, age-old journey to save the girl. It spans over half a dozen 
 fairly long, nonlinear levels, each packed with dangers and secrets, yet each rather different 
 from the next. Some parts of these levels are straightforward and enjoyable enough, while some 
 are astonishingly difficult and frustrating, forcing you to retry again and again until you succeed 
 at the impossible. Still other sequences are wonderfully well-designed. You might happen across 
 a room containing Orcs playing tetherball with a Kobold strung up by his legs. You might don an 
 Orc Shaman's mask to find your enemies kneeling before you in reverence. Or you might navigate 
 past a perilous set of pendulums, then notice you can jump across their tops on the way back. Die 
 by the Sword's arena and tournament gameplay modes let up to four people choose from the various 
 characters in the game and have at it in a free-for-all over a network. You can also create custom 
 special moves available at the touch of a button by means of the included move editor, though its 
 complexity makes it something of a chore to use.  

 In the end, Die by the Sword is a solid action game with enough thrills and challenges to satisfy 
 you even if you think you've seen it all. Though the ambitious control scheme is hardly perfect, 
 it does offer you a sense of freedom not afforded by most games of this sort. And the quest, for 
 all its frustrating moments, packs more than a few situations that make it worth the price of admission. 
 If the 3D action-adventure game is your thing, you're looking to give your new machine a workout, 
 and you're up for an especially difficult fight, then you'll want to look out for this one.    
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 7
Date: May 16, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7.5/10
  - In Die By The Sword, you control this medieval knight guy called Enric. The gameplay is simple; 
 Run around in dungeons and slash & hack anything that moves. I have not touched the story mode 
 that much since it's pretty damn hard, or maybe I just suck at it. But there are two other modes, 
 Arena and Tournament. Arena is the most fun mode. Basically you choose your character (you can 
 play as the enemies from the story mode) and your opponent (s) , select time limit/kill limit and 
 the arena, and then you fight. It's incredibly fun, because Die By The Sword has full dismemberment. 
 If your head, or both or your legs become dismembered you die. Your one leg and your both arms 
 can be chopped off and you can still continue to fight. But if your right arm falls off you are 
 basically defenseless and without any form of attack, ie. doomed. The tournament mode is essentially 
 the same as the arena mode, except you will fight various battles, which get more and more challenging 
 if you win. Even though the game has a really innovative control system (more on that below) , it 
 gets repetitive after a while.
  
  Controls: 8/10
  - So, you control your sword with your mouse. But unlike almost any other game, you don't have 
 any pre-animated attack moves. You just swing your mouse where you want to attack. While this is 
 was really innovative for the time and the system hasn't been used since in any game that I know 
 of, it's quite difficult to control. You can do all sorts of different slashes, but some of them 
 are hard to execute and hit rarely or do far too less damage. Basically the best attack is to slash 
 your sword from left to right and right to left and turning your body to give the slash extra speed. 
 The system feels quite clunky at times, but you get used to it. The game also does have an option 
 of not using mouse to simulate the sword arm... you just press the keypad to move the mouse, or 
 even simpler, you just press buttons to use pre-animated attacks (which removes all the fun.)
 
  
  Atmosphere: 4/10
  - I must say the game is not atmospheric. At all. The story is cliche and the environments feel 
 bland. The game doesn't need to be atmospheric though, since the fun gameplay makes up for that.
 
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10
  - For 1998? They're great. Everything is nicely detailed and quite high-res (for the time) It's 
 not the strongest point of the game, but they're definitely good.
  
  Sound: 6.5/10
  - Meh. Music gets boring after a while, and sound effects are bland. One thing that's great is 
 the main character's voice. With classic lines like "Bloody hell!" and "Ah, that's gotta hurt (after 
 slicing the enemy's arms and legs) ", it's kickass.
  
  Physics: 8/10
  - You know, the game actually has quite good physics. Even the falling/death animations almost 
 look like they used ragdoll. Good stuff.
  
  Replay value: 5/10
  - You probably aren't gonna play through the story mode more than once. The arena gets repetitive 
 after a while. There is an online mode, but no-one is playing it anymore and it's hard to use. 
 LAN games are pretty fun though.
  
  Value for money: 6/10
  - It's hard to find. And I mean HARD. If you manage to find it, it's probably under 20  or so 
 and the game is fun, even if only for a short while.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 7/10
  - The game crashes occasionally, but it performs great on 
 any machine older than 8 years, so... But the frame rates seem to be rather poor on any machine 
 I have played, so I guess it's either bad optimizing or it has the maximum fixed frame rate of 
 20. In any case, the game looks like it's lagging all the time, which can be annoying but it's 
 not THAT bad.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Nah, but it 
 had innovative controls which aren't surpassed by any game to date. So it was really innovative 
 for the time, but the actual game is nothing that special.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Gee... Well. I dunno, anyone who likes dismembering 
 limbs I guess? The game is really hit or miss, you either love it or you hate it.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyurth
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The vsim controls in this game really make it stand out from the crowd. Just move your sword arm 
 from side to side to sever limbs and heads! Be sure to enable these controls in the options menu, 
 or els it&acute; s just triggering moves by using standard key combos. The story is very simple, 
 so are the graphics but check out the I&acute; ll cleave yer head from yer bloody shoulders! or 
 the I&acute; ll have ye bleedin&acute; like a stuck pig! sounds and you know you&acute; re dealing 
 with a classic here :) . The multiplayer arena mode rules because you can take on more than one 
 opponent at once... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  I haven't played this game in a long time, but I remember the game being really hard in story mode 
 and slightly addictive in tournament melee mode. The combat sysytem involved using the number key 
 pad to use different directions to swing the sword. For example, To swing the sword diagonally 
 you would need to press 9 or 7 to raise your sword and either 1 or 3 to move it diagonally in that 
 direction (right to left or left to right) . In that way, the combat system was very innovative. 
 During combat, you are allowed to cut off your opponents arms, legs, head and then proceed to sheathe 
 your weapon and beat your opponent with his own body part. The best way to neutralize an enemy 
 in this game is to either decapitate him or cut off his weapon arm.
  The story mode provides a very basic story line - you and your girl are resting underneath the 
 stars. You are both amazing fighters, but when you are surprised by a raiding part of Kobolts... she 
 is captured and you must rush to save her. She is going to be used in a ritual of some sort and 
 you must prevent this. 
  I never could get past mission three because you get to a point in the game to were you cannot 
 advance any more. Maybe I took at wrong turn, but from what I remember the game auto saved there 
 so it must be the right spot. I just could seem to find my way out of the swamp monsters lair....
 
  The addictive melee tournament combat allows for you to battle against 3 other opponents in either 
 a 3 on 1 or a free for all. This really can become addicting, but it can also get really old. It 
 depends if you in the mood to hack and slash for a while.
  The game also allows you to customize your own moves in the game and remap them to special moves. 
 This really is a great feature, but unfortunately the window open for the custom moves is like 
 a 3 second timer. You really need to be quick with those sword controls to be able to make the 
 custom move you want. But once you get the hang of it, you are sure to get addictional fun from 
 this game. 
  I'd recommend this game if you are a dungeons and dragons fan. Its probably really cheap now (if 
 its even still on the market) so you might want to keep an eye out for it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
