-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Die Hard: Nakatomi Plaza
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/diehardnakatomiplaza/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 23, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 5.8, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 269 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Piranha Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Apr 22, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even with its cheap $30 price tag, only the most die-hard Die Hard fans should pick up this game. 
 

 As you can probably guess, Die Hard: Nakatomi Plaza is a first-person shooter based on the classic 
 Bruce Willis action flick,  Die Hard . The game attempts to re-create many of the movie's environments, 
 characters, and one-liners throughout 30 or so single-player levels, and while it succeeds at capturing 
 some of the bare essence of  Die Hard  in its action scenes, a number of problems with the controls, 
 the graphics, and the enemy AI keep it from being anything more than a mediocre game.          
  You'll play as Detective John McClane throughout Nakatomi Plaza.    

  In Die Hard: Nakatomi Plaza, you play as John McClane, a down-on-his-luck NYPD detective who travels 
 to Los Angeles in an attempt to reconcile with his estranged wife at her company's Christmas party, 
 which is being held in a massive and ultramodern 40-story skyscraper: Nakatomi Plaza. Soon after 
 McClane's arrival, a group of terrorists takes over the building, severs its communications lines 
 with the outside world, and plots to kill all the hostages in an attempt to make out with millions 
 of dollars from the company's central vault. With his wife in danger, McClane takes it upon himself 
 to single-handedly stop the terrorists using little more than his standard-issue Beretta and a 
 Zippo lighter. All of the movie's memorable characters, including Sgt. Al Powell, Argyle, Harry 
 Ellis, Holly Gennero, and Hans Gruber make an appearance in the game, and its plot unfolds through 
 a series of in-game cutscenes that use many of the same camera angles as those in the movie.   
 

  The game will take you between 10 and 15 hours to finish, significantly longer than the movie's 
 running time of two hours and 11 minutes. To flesh out the game's plot, the designers have added 
 some sequences and missions that obviously weren't part of the movie. While this might seem like 
 a good idea on paper, in practice, the new challenges facing John McClane don't seem to fit in 
 with the whole  Die Hard  experience. Some of these new missions involve McClane crawling around 
 in sewers, escorting members of a SWAT team around the building, and rescuing hostages from an 
 inferno. What's more, the addition of these new levels causes the plot of the game to fall apart. 
 For instance, when McClane first radios Sgt. Powell, he tells him that the building was taken over 
 by about a dozen terrorists and that he's already "taken care ofa couple of them. While this 
 stays true to the movie's plot, by the time you call Powell in the game, you've already killed 
 about 20 of the terrorists. In fact, by the time you finish Nakatomi Plaza, you'll have run into 
 nearly 100 enemies -- and that's about 10 times the number of terrorists in the movie. Additionally, 
 you're never given any sense of what you're supposed to be doing in each level. The cutscenes mirror 
 only certain movie scenes and don't give you any direction at all. The only way to figure out what 
 you're supposed to be doing is by bringing up an objectives window, and you're never informed of 
 when this window is updated with completed or new objectives.           Some of the scenes refer 
 to the movie, while others are original.    

  Nakatomi Plaza uses typical first-person shooter controls, though it deviates from the standard 
 conventions of the genre a bit. Specifically, you move a lot slower in this game than you do in 
 most shooters. There is an always-run option, but using it drains your stamina, which you'll need 
 to do simple things, like jumping. Your stamina slowly regenerates, and it's denoted by a "lung 
 meter" in the lower left-hand corner of the screen, where two other meters -- health and morale -- are 
 also located. Supposedly, McClane's morale affects the way that hostages and enemies react to you, 
 though there seems to be no notable differences in their behavior within the game. In fact, for 
 the most part, almost all the enemies you'll run into will display a substandard level of intelligence. 
 They'll usually stand perfectly still -- sometimes at point-blank range -- while you shoot them, and 
 vice versa. Occasionally, you'll catch a terrorist shooting from around a corner or ducking behind 
 a solid object, but those instances seem to happen infrequently.            The Nakatomi Plaza's 
 corridors look bland.    

  The game's weapons are also problematic. Like in the movie, McClane has to depend on his Beretta 
 and an MP5 submachine gun that he'll acquire from a dead terrorist, though the game adds a Steyr 
 Aug assault rifle, a Colt M4A1 assault rifle, an M60 machine gun, and a few flash grenades that 
 you can pick up in the later levels. While these new weapons are clearly designed to keep the shooting 
 from getting repetitive, you'll be extremely hard-pressed to find any ammunition for them. In fact, 
 despite having the other weapons on hand, you'll hardly ever use anything other than the MP5, which 
 is all the more frustrating when you consider how inaccurate that gun is in the game. The MP5 is 
 widely accepted to be the world's most accurate submachine gun, yet it has the recoil of a cannon 
 and the accuracy of a spit wad in Die Hard: Nakatomi Plaza.   

  Nakatomi Plaza is powered by the LithTech 2.0 3D engine. But unlike the visually impressive No 
 One Lives Forever and Aliens Versus Predator 2, both of which used the LithTech engine to good 
 effect, Nakatomi Plaza's graphics are substandard compared with most other currently available 
 shooters. While many of the game's levels look more or less like their respective movie environments, 
 they're often rather blocky and skinned with low-resolution textures. Likewise, the character models 
 are simple, and their movements -- especially facial animations -- seem rigid and unnatural. This becomes 
 especially evident during the cutscenes, where close-ups of the characters clearly reveal these 
 flaws. Nakatomi Plaza also suffers from some collision-detection issues, like dead bodies clipping 
 through stairs or your own character clipping clean through an air duct in one of the later levels. 
 And while the weapon models look pretty good, some of the special effects in the game -- particularly 
 the fire -- look downright filthy. All of this makes it seem particularly peculiar that the game 
 runs at such a horrible frame rate -- whenever there are more than two enemies onscreen, the action 
 becomes extremely choppy. This might be expected of a visually stunning game that makes use of 
 all the latest rendering techniques, but Nakatomi Plaza is no feast for the eyes, so the fact that 
 it runs slow on a Pentium III 933MHz machine with a GeForce 3 video card is unacceptable.      
      The movie may be a lot shorter than the game, but it's also a lot better.    

  There are several musical scores that play throughout the game, and they increase in tempo whenever 
 there's any action. The soundtrack itself isn't anything to write home about, but it does have 
 a signature 1980s ring to it, and that fits a game like Nakatomi Plaza just fine. It's no great 
 surprise that the dialogue in Nakatomi Plaza isn't done by the original actors, though for the 
 most part, the in-game impersonators for John McClane, Hans Gruber, and Sgt. Powell do a fairly 
 convincing job of sounding like Bruce Willis, Alan Rickman, and Reginald VelJohnson, respectively. 
 But the voices for the minor characters are just plain horrible. The terrorists sound like schoolyard 
 impersonations of Saturday Night Live's Hans and Frans, while Joe Takagi's character is voiced 
 with an Asian accent that's so fake it'll make you cringe. Other sound effects, like weapon gunfire, 
 are passable, though your MP5 sounds surprisingly muted.   

  While creating an action game based on the events of  Die Hard  seems like a logical endeavor, 
 it doesn't work out in the case of Nakatomi Plaza. Fans of the movie might enjoy reliving some 
 of McClane's memorable battles, but that novelty will wear off sooner rather than later. And its 
 severe problems with the frame rate and the AI, as well as the lack of any replay value or multiplayer 
 options, keep Nakatomi Plaza from being recommendable to first-person shooter fans. Even with its 
 cheap $30 price tag, only the most die-hard  Die Hard  fans should pick up this game.   

    Editor's note 05/08/02 : This review originally stated that Die Hard: Nakatomi Plaza uses the 
 latest version of the LithTech 3D engine, when in fact it uses the slightly older version 2.0 of 
 the LithTech technology. GameSpot regrets the error. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cobraman007
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Action movie DIE HARD was released in 1988, and had fans writhing on the edge of their seats throughout 
 the almost 2 hours of intensity. DIE HARD NAKATOMI PLAZA for the PC will bring between 20-50 hours 
 of excitement and action to fans everywhere. The game is based off the movie that consisted of 
 the most exciting, and most talented cast and crew to ever produce a movie (Bruce Willis became 
 an action icon from his role in this) . That being said, it's not possible to replicate those elements 
 for the game. 
  
  Although the characters and the plot follow the movie pretty closely, there are a few environments 
 and surprise twists that are added to the story. The game has about 30 levels of high energy action 
 sequences, of which you will play the star (John McClane) . For those familiar with the movie, move 
 to the next paragraph. John McClane is meeting his wife for a Christmas party, when a group of 
 high tech European terrorists take over the building and kidnap everyone. It's up to McClane (you) 
 to find a way to rescue the hostages and 600 million worth of bearer bonds- all before the terrorists 
 find you and kill you. I highly recommend you rent the movie before you play the game; this will 
 give you a better idea of the plot and help you immerse yourself into the character and story. 
 Plus, you gotta see one of the funniest characters to ever hit the big screens, Harry Ellis. Ellis 
 is a coked up business /salesman/playboy, who tries to use his slick sales skills to hustle a deal 
 with the terrorists. IGN said it best when they reported: "with cocaine fueled optimism of the 
 rich and stupid, Ellis proclaims: 'Hey babe, I negotiate million dollar deals for breakfast, I 
 think I can handle this Eurotrash.'" You can't miss this!
  
  
  SUMMARY:
  
  Because the game was released in 2002, and it's currently almost 2009 now, this game, like any 
 older game, is not up to par with today's technology. The good news is that today's video cards 
 and computers can run this at its maximum specs, with little to no problems. Although the graphics 
 are very sharp and clean, they are not as detailed oriented as current shooters. 
  
  The A. I. (artificial intelligence) of the enemies is not very complex, and sometimes not intelligent 
 at all. The fact that there are a lot of enemies, and the game is a little harder than most shooters 
 will make up for moments when an enemy may lack strategy. 
  
  The environments are convincing for an upscale business building: offices, cubicles, computer mainframe 
 rooms, storage rooms, maintenance rooms, storage rooms, AC vents, cafeterias, executive fitness 
 centers, rooftops, and more. Although there are a lot of items and props that one would expect 
 in these type of surroundings, there are not a lot of usable game physics in the environments- 
 most of the graphics are just static images. 
  
  Sound wise the game is well done. The music score is intense during heavy gun fights and moments 
 of stress. The weapon sounds are realistic, and the recoil is accurate for each weapon. Background 
 sounds are also sprinkled throughout to add to the intensity and create reactions. 
  
  Even this day (end of 2008) , I highly recommend this game to every DIE HARD fan, and every gamer 
 who considers himself a true world mercenary. There's never been a greater plot, greater dialogue, 
 greater action sequences, and a cast of characters this perfect in an action movie before. If this 
 game were remade by a top group of game developers, and with the latest game engines, this could 
 be one of the greatest shooters ever made! 
  
  TIPS:
  
  *Download the latest patches from Gamespot. This will insure your game will run with minimal bugs 
 and technical issues. 
  
  *Use the game guide on the link below- there are tough puzzles that unfortunately, are not very 
 logical to solve. There are also items that are tough to see, and confusing things you have to 
 do to get through some levels. 
  http://www. gamefaqs. com/computer/doswin/file/516545/18458
  
  *SAVE OFTEN- you can save anywhere, and will need to if you are playing on the hard settings. 
 
  
  *Know your weapons and usable items- use axes to break through wood barriers, fire extinguishers 
 to put out fires, close doors behind you to minimize being followed, use machine guns for areas 
 with multiple foes, and save sniper bullets for areas you really need them. 
  
  *Run in bursts (off and on) - your lung indicator will show exhaustion if you run or jump for too 
 long all at once. If you do run out of breath your body will move very slow and you will be breathing 
 hard. Also, use run when you want to escape an unfavorable fire fight. 
  
  *Turn up the speakers and also turn on the subtitles; some of the dialogue is required to get you 
 through the level, and there are also some funny things to be heard. 
  
  COBRAMAN SS 007
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtaloversa6o
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  I love the game. Its not that bad. Me and my friend used to play it all day long and we really enjoyed 
 it. It was really nice. I'm getting it again because i never had a chance to pass it because of 
 a problem with my video card but now i hope everything is okay so i'm installing it right away! 
 I personally like it so i hope you will too and its worth the money. Yeah i agree the game is kinda 
 old but i never look at the graphics. The Only thing i look at is the gameplay. i can even start 
 the worst game in the world by graphics but to have the best gameplay of all so get it. You don't 
 know what you're missing. I can help you if u need help with levels so if you do - send me a PM 
 ill reply as fast as possible :) Hope there are other people with the same opinion as mine =] and 
 they enjoyed it as much as i did. Wish you all a good day and Cya =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJMorpheme
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 15, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Well. What can I say? I will have to confess, I own this game. That's right, I bought it. I handed 
 over my hard earned cash in exchange for this game. Before paying for it the owner of the small 
 video game shop actually tried to dissuade me from buying it but I didn't listen. It can't be that 
 bad surely. I like FPS games and I liked the movie. 
  
  It turns out I was wrong. This game is bad. It's a crime that it was ever released. The controls 
 are awkward and they will eventually drive you crazy. It doesn't help that the game is so difficult 
 that you actually have to be John MacLane in order to complete it. There are enemies everywhere 
 shooting from every angle of every screen. You will die, over and over again. You will die hard. 
 
  
  The graphics are not bad but they are nothing special for the time considering the same year saw 
 the release of GTA Vice City and in the previous year Max Payne was released. I did not really 
 notice the music which suggests it wasn't great. The voice acting though is terrible. Why couldn't 
 they get Bruce Willis to do the voice of John MacLane; probably because he didn't want to be associated 
 with such an absolute piece of rubbish.
  
  I can't really comment on the number of hours it will take to complete the game because I turned 
 it off after 10 minutes and any sane person will do the same. No actually, any sane person will 
 not buy this game in the first place. 
  
  The best way to get any entertainment out of this game is to use it as a Frisbee. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTU_Agent24
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  Die Hard Nakatomi Plaza is NOT a bad game. I can understand WHY it did not receive a high score, 
 But it deserves MUCH higher then 5. Anyone who is a fan of the Die Hard movies (Particularly the 
 first movie) will enjoy this game. 90% of the game involves you running around with an MP5 or a 
 9mm killing terrorist and completing objectives. Whilst the game includes other weapons (m-16, 
 m-60 etc...) , it's mainly the MP5 and 9mm that you will be using WHICH IS FUN- It helps make you 
 feel like you are John McClane trying to survive the impossible. I Bought this game because i saw 
 it in a gameshop (Game Traders) for only $19... GREAT BUY.
  
  If you want a full review, check out other user reviews who gave this game 6.5-8, they have the 
 right idea about 
  this game.
  
  Long Story short, If you are a fan of Die Hard, and see this game cheap, Buy It. You will not be 
 disappointed and will have a good time playing it. Enjoy.
  
  (P. S, you need to download the patch to help the game run. Without the patch the visuals are distorted 
 (Eg. Only see certain body parts of people) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Die Hard Nakatomi Plaza...
  
  What can I say about it?
  
  Ok, I'll go straight to the point, IT'S NOT A VERY GOOD GAME, yeah, it's not also the worst FPS 
 you'll play, if you are a real serious FPS fan, you won't find it very interesting, it has a few 
 weapons that work fine, some nice firefights, enemies have a decent AI, graphics and sound are 
 OK but could have been better, etc. But everything has been done before, if you have played Soldier 
 Of Fortune, Half-Life, Cold Winter, HALO, Killzone, No One Lives Forever, or any other 007 FPS, 
 in console or the PC, there's nothing neew here, if you don't play Die Hard: Nakatomi Plaza the 
 world will remain the same.
  
  Ok, now if you are like me a serious Die Hard films fan, then you'll find this game enjoyable and 
 OK, but no more than that, the story is the same as in the First movie, the only actor form the 
 movie who gives his voice is the guy who made Powell in the movie, McLane is played by a guy with 
 a similar voice, the characters don't look like the ones in the movie.
  
  But the Nakatomi Building looks almost like in te movie, that's a good point for this game, and 
 this helps to feel like you are Jonh McLane, even if you are in a section that didn't apear on 
 the movie, you'll feel inside the film, but of course the storyline had to be changed, for example 
 you have to deal with a lot of terrorists (more than 200) and some of the 12 original form the 
 movie are the bosses.
  
  All weapons from the movie are here, and you can use them, even the M60 and the Steir Aug.
  
 
  I can't say anything else about this game, I can only recomend it for the Die Hard Fan, but the 
 serious gamer will find it very dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  ok ill admit that in todays engines and grafics its a like poor. but come on its better then a 
 5. heck, just the talking on the radio is worth more then a 5. i had a lot of fun with it especially 
 the sassy mouthed black cop. When he offered his Boss a breath mint for the FBI meeting i laughed 
 out loud/ It could have been a really great game if the grafics were better not so grainey. i enjoyed 
 it found it to be really funny in places and maddening when someone whos surpossed to follow you 
 just Stands there meanwhile your burning. that got me rather mad. but it worked out. i liked the 
 plot i just liked the game and ya ive played quake and doom and all the great really Greats but 
 once in a while you just need to laugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This is the first time I have played a game tied so closely to a movie, and I am surprised they 
 managed to pull it off. While some liberties have been taken with the storyline to flesh out the 
 game and add some new locales to spice things up the story still hangs together fairly well. Scenes 
 from the movie have been lifted straight into the game as cutscenes which advance the plot, which 
 works ok most of time. There were some quirks like how the bearded Nakatomi employee Ellis turned 
 into a moustached blonde or how Special Agent Johnson suddenly turned Caucasian.
  
  The production values are so so. While the graphics are quite bland they still manage to present 
 a convincing environment in a typical modern day office tower. The artists should be credited for 
 having managed to recreate several of the locales featured in the Nakatomi Plaza in painstaking 
 detail. The music though is forgettable and the weapons sound underwhelming (although they look 
 really good) , but on the other hand the ambience of humming generators, ventilation systems and 
 computer halls is very good. Your footsteps make characteristic noise depending on if you walk 
 on polished tiles or muffled carpets and so on. There is also a satisfying crash everytime you 
 smash a glass panel.
  
  The film featured twelve terrorists, you will have disposed of twice that number before the second 
 level ends. They mainly stand around in corridors shooting in your general direction but will also 
 give chase if you try to escape into another room. Sometimes the behaviour of opponents will be 
 scripted, adding some variation to the fighting or making for interesting death scenes.
  
  The flaws of the storytelling, the repetitiveness of the combat and the dated production values 
 could have been forgiven if the gameplay was satisfying. This is were things fall apart. You spend 
 almost all of the 30 levels being hearded through a maze of locked doors shooting at the same enemies 
 with your inaccurate submachinegun again and again. There is no feeling to the shooting, you can 
 only hope that your shots are going to find their target. Halfway through the game pretty much 
 all the levels are recycled and there is very little incentive to continue playing.
  
  To top it all off the game ends with an infuriatingly annoying boss fight that I only managed to 
 sit through because I wanted to come to a closure, uninstall the game and move on with my life. 
 That has now been completed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  I was a teenager when Die Hard first hit theaters and I enjoyed the film immensely. Sure, much 
 of the acting in the movie was pretty tacky; with the exception of the principle characters, most 
 of the performances were hampered by ludicrous buffoonery or a tiresome tendency to sneer a bit 
 too much, which seems to be a staple of 80s villains and authority figures alike. However, the 
 claustrophobic setting in Die Hard, as well as John McClanes cathartic methods for evening a dramatically 
 unbalanced score, really worked. I remember that, during my first viewing of the movie, I became 
 convinced that McClane wasnt going to make it through his barefoot and bloodied ordeal  that, 
 whatever the movies resolution, he would be cut down at some point, and the fabled popcorn-flick 
 superhero would fail to stride victoriously into the closing credits for the first time in my young 
 life.
  
  Playing through Die Hard: Nakatomi Plaza left me with an impression that is nearly identical to 
 all of the above. A few elements didnt quite work: the games character animation was minimal, 
 its locations were a bit bland (although far from sparse) , and the dogged in-engine reproduction 
 of swatches of the original film were often misplaced and unnecessary (as Mr. Ajami pointed out 
 in his review, it bothered the heck out of me that the clip in which Sergeant Powell estimated 
 the number of bad guys in the building to be a mere fraction of the body count I had already raised 
 wasnt modified or excised altogether) . Even though the designers created a fairly wide variety 
 of encounters  snipping wires on the roof during an unending barrage of assassins, escorting Argyle 
 through the parking garage, running from a spreading inferno, and so on  picking off the individual 
 members of Grubers army became a bit redundant. DH: NPs damage model on the highest difficulty 
 setting (coupled with the fact that McClane cant scamper for more than a few feet before his lungs 
 are completely blown out) even led me to believe, once again, that the sass-mouthing superhero 
 would never see his tribulations all the way through to the end.
  
  As for DH: NPs positive aspects, the overall package is incredibly competent for what amounts to 
 a budget title. The Nakatomi skyscraper provides for a very diverse playground, as long as the 
 player doesnt yearn to frolic outdoors under an open sky. In addition to the boardrooms, cube 
 farms, and intricate ventilation ducts through which McClane dodged his mercenary pursuers in the 
 film, the folks at Piranha Games convincingly expand the heros domain to include much more of 
 those same areas as well as the buildings dank basement and the aforementioned commuter deck. 
 Like I said, the office artifacts are plentiful but pedestrian, and the surrounding textures contain 
 a very bland ambiance, but I believe that a part of both the game and the movies appeal stems 
 from the juxtaposition of the mortal conflicts waged within such a normally safe workaday environment. 
 If only DH: NPs firefights were a bit more wild, with a wider variety of opponents than just wave 
 after wave of plainclothes-wearing jerks  like, say, the body-armored heavy gunners that appeared 
 in FEAR, which also spent most of its time within the service corridors of commercial properties 
  the games overall quality would improve dramatically.
  
  Even though the brassy quips, overly-choreographed fistfights, noisy gun battles with bottomless 
 ammo clips, and cheesy Casio-tinged musical scores of Reagan-era actioners were never really my 
 favorite staples of entertainment, Die Hard and its two sequels stand out as especially endearing 
 examples of against-all-odds survival stories. Piranhas treatment of the first film yielded an 
 enjoyable, albeit underdeveloped, product. I played the game one last time over the summer shortly 
 after watching the DVD release of Die Hard, and I believe that the two titles complement each other 
 very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tardog_daman
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 11, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  I was always a fan of the Die Hard movies, loved them all. I was particuarly fond of the DIE HARD 
 TRILOGY game on PS1, as it was original. Needless to say, the release of Nakatomi Plaza had me 
 somewhat excited. I bought the game with forty of my hard-earned dollars. Now I feel completely 
 ripped off, and did the day I bought this steaming pile of crap four years ago.
  
  STORY
  You're John MacClane, the badass cop who's in to visit the ex-wife. When arriving to Nakatomi Plaza, 
 the place in which her company is holding a christmas function, terrorists seize the place.
  
  John's job? Fight back.
  
  The storyline was fantastic in the movie, but when integrated 
 into a game, BOO. I felt like I wasn't playing a game in which a super cool movie was backing, 
 I felt like I was playing some lame rip-off.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Hah, yeah right. For a 2000 game, they're pretty damn disgusting. It's FPS, so you'll always be 
 seeing the hands of your character. His hands look like pink lumps of flesh that a four year old 
 drew with a pink crayon, then it was scanned onto a computer and used as the basic hand model.
 
  
  The weapons look pretty nice, with a slight shine to them. There isn't much in the way of detail, 
 though, most items/walls/etc were clearly given hardly any (if any) thought when being designed.
 
  
  SOUNDS
  Ugh, so annoying. The fire of the sub-machine gun sounds like an old man coughing. BRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR. 
 Now go play it on a loop for an hour, your ears will be bleeding after five minutes.
  
  The voices are average. The least they could have done was hire Willis to do the voice of John, 
 really, the voice-over for him just sucked.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  You'd think the gameplay would shine, and when the gmae loads up, you think you're in Die Hard 
 heaven. Wait, no you're not. The gameplay is shocking, though it was nice to see that most parts 
 from the movie had been integrated into the game, and there is a lot of original new (but frustrating 
 and annoying) tasks which'll serve absolutely no purpose in the plot later on in the game.
  
  The game isn't fun the first tme around, the fun wears off within minutes. So by the time you 
 finish it, you'll have been itching to delete the whole damn folder, and possibly use the disc 
 as a frisbee, or burning material, whatever's better.
  
  CONTROLS
  My God? Why have you forsaken me?
  So were the words Jesus cried out when he was dying on the 
 cross. Well guess what, you'll scream this when you play the game. If you've played CS/BF2, you'll 
 be used to the typical WSAD layout.
  
  So it's going to be pretty easy to master the controls, right?
  
  WRONG.
  
  The layout 
 is a complete mess, and there's not a single way to change it. You're stuck with the most pathetic 
 control layout for the whole game.
  
  OVERALL
  Dreadful. Not worth buying, not worth the money. Don't rent it, don't buy it, just laugh at the 
 guy next to you when he buys it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say about this game? First thing, I never saw the movie hence I didn't know what 
 to expect. My ideal PC game is like watching a movie with interaction, hence getting this game. 
 Also the company who brought quality PC games like NOLF, AVP and FEAR so how could you go wrong? 
 Right? Right...
  
  The game starts out easily enough. You play a New York cop name John McClane. You have been invited 
 to a 'Xmas party' (as you really want to meet your ex-wife) and then all hell breaks loose. Whilst 
 washing up in the men's room, a bunch of terrorists storms the building placing huge demands on 
 the directors of the building whilst using hostages (including your ex-wife) for bait. Of course, 
 being the hero, you are a one-man killing machine with no shoes on your feet. Although I have one 
 question here - how many terrorists are actually in that truck in the beginning cut scene? They 
 probably can pull the Guinness book-of-records for the number of people in that truck and believe 
 me that is going to be pretty hard to beat. Actually, almost impossible. A truck load of midgets 
 cannot top this.
  
  Anyway, the overall effect in this game makes you feel like you're in the movie. That's the main 
 reason I played this game pretty much in one sitting. It's not a very long and demanding game as 
 it's pretty much a stock-standard FPS.
  
  In the game you have a small arsenal of weapons ranging from a 9mm pistol (your butter knife has 
 more effect) to an ever-so-reliable submachine gun (only because there is ammo galore) , sniper 
 rife (not really effective but usable) , M-16 and the grand daddy of them all the M-60 (save this 
 for the mini bosses) .
  
  Other than weapons you can also use the radio (well that's really for cut scenes) , lighter (light 
 radius = worthless) , badge (rarely use this) , axe, fire extinguisher (this comes in handy for one 
 particular scene) , flash bang grenades (flash bang my a$$) and wire cutters (probably the most 
 useful non-weapon) . Overall there is not much to say here with the non-weapon's category other 
 than worthless (save the wire cutters) .
  
  The AI in this game is pretty good. They do hide and cover but some do run to their deaths towards 
 you. Praise them for their gallant efforts!
  
  The sounds and graphics are pretty mediocre. Considering the game uses the LithTech technology 
 2.0 I expected a little better.
  
  However there are 'issues' in this game and I mean MAJOR issues. Many-a-times when you play the 
 game, you will get stuck in certain areas and only a multiple jump combo can save you (that's including 
 escaping the dreaded coffee table) , 'bounce' off something when you accidentally collide into a 
 solid object (including the same coffee table) , or simply trying to jump through a hole which requires 
 all your skills and super-reflexes. Others includes falling off the map (yes you've read it correct 
 - level 24) and god-mode terrorists (level 1 - yes level one! Go on, try and kill them - I dare 
 you and the fellows on level 18 - they are located across the other side of the pool. I have snipped 
 them trillion times yet they survived but when I sneak behind them they die in an instant) . They 
 do die hard (pun included) .
  
  Overall the game is OK however I wouldn't make love to it. Therefore if you like Soldier of Fortune 
 you will probably like this (on a lesser scale of course) .
  
  One last thing - the meaning of 'best drill sergeant ever' arrives from level 18 (gee - what a 
 famous level) . If you decide to play the game, read what the drill sergeant has to say and do 50 
 push ups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 4, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  Another Die hard game is finially here. Yay! Well, not exactly. This entry, just like every other 
 Die Hard except for the arcade version is n't even worth checking out. The main reason is the repetivness 
 of the levels and terrible enemy Ai. Don't even get me started on the number of locked doors you 
 have to see if it's unlocked or not and here the boring droning "It's locked" from some guy who's 
 trying to sound like John Mclane. All of the voice acting is terrible really.
  
  The premise is just like in the movie. You John Mclane come back to meet your wife Holly just when 
 the whole Nakatomi plaza has been taken over by about a hundred generic terrorists. Well in the 
 movie theres about 10 but in this game, add another zero to that. It makes no sense and the enemies 
 are really stupid.
  
  The levels are ulta boring, from the seriously outdated graphics that makes everything look low 
 res and blurry to the terrible framerate makes this game not even something Die hard fans or shooter 
 fans should check out. 
  
  The game is quite long, about 10-15 hours for a game like this, but it isn't worth playing because 
 it just isn't fun. 
  
  The music in the game is tretrous, when there is any playing and the weapon sounds are really bad. 
 The only good thing about this game is the fact that you get to be John Mclane and interact with 
 the terrorist and such, but even the key ones and leaders such as Hans Gruber are pretty generic 
 and not memorable at all. 
  
  Theres no multiplayer but it is retailing for like $15 but it's still not worth checking out. Even 
 die hard shooter fans should just seriously stay away.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark123321
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 20, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  You've watched the films, now you can play as Mr Mclaine himself! This is a game remake of the 
 very first Die Hard film. The film was great, but this game is quite a big letdown, and it could 
 definatly do better. In parts of the game, it wonders off into a totally different storyline, then 
 back to the original storyline. Its very scetchy, but it's fun for a little while.
  
  Gameplay - 7 / 10
  
  The gameplay in the day, isnt so good. It starts off on the right track, 
 its like playing the movie, only your Bruce Willis!!! But then it steers off into a totally different 
 storyline, and you start playing a totally different film. But later on in the game it goes back 
 on to the story line. Because of this scetchyness, there are far too many levels in the game, and 
 so the game repeats itself a lot.
  
  Graphics - 6 / 10
  
  For a PC game that was brought out in 2002, the creators should be pretty disappointed. The graphics 
 are fair, but you can't feel like your in the game if it doesnt look 'that' real. There are no 
 shadows, and the walls are just patches of graphics looping themselfs together!
  
  Sound - 6 / 10
  
  Another aspect of the game that is disappointing is the sound. The only actor 
 in the film that speaks in the game is the Police man. Bruce Willis doesnt speak as John Mclaine 
 in the game, which is pretty disappointing, as it feels like a totally different film/game. The 
 music isnt too bad, but it's quite the same as the film.
  
  Value - 7 / 10
  
  The value in the game isnt good. It's got bad graphics, sound and gameplay. I would recommend to 
 you that you save your money, or at least try out the demo!
  
  Overall - 7.1 / 10 ( Good )
  
  Overall this game doesnt do it much for me. It's unlike the 
 film in so many different aspects. It could be much better if it stuck to the plot, with better 
 graphics and more missions other than repeating itself.
  
  Thanks for reading,
  
  Marky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 1, 2004 5:15 pm PT
Review:  If you have seen the first movie Die Hard and liked it, this is a game for you. The theme is nearly 
 exactly like the movie. Even the lines the actors used are the same. "Yippie Kyeah, Mother F**ker" 
 was not over used, most all the lines are there. I feel the GS review did not do this game justice. 
 Maybe the "only the most die-hard Die Hard fans should pick up this game", was a bit much and immediately 
 turned off a boatload of folks.
  
  They could have done a better job of choosing the voice-over to more closely fit the characters, 
 but the voices of the bad guys are in a the right foreign dialect. John's (Bruce Willis) voice 
 is close.
  
  Consider the game's inherent individualities; John was left handed (so is your FPS image) , the 
 weaponry was what was in the movie, from handguns to Steyr Aug in 5.56 mm. Explosives need to be 
 shoved down an elevator that takes out entire floors of the Nakatomi Plaza. The rooftop is wired 
 to blow; so you have to use the fire hose to jump off the building and shoot the glass out windows 
 to re-enter a room. John is shoe-less, like the movie, so watch out for the glass on the floor 
 and acquire plenty of bandages for foot first aid. After killing one of the first terrorist, John 
 attempts to use the terrorist's footwear, but remarks something like, "only I would shot a terrorist 
 with feet the size of my sister's". As one shoots "Han's" terrorists they just get more pissed, 
 and there are many more of them than in the movie. There is a lot of conversation over a two-way 
 radio network. Saving hostages is a main concern (shooting them would also be bad) . The game play 
 is linear, but then one does not get lost as easy. If one is not sure where to go, when the terrorists 
 start shooting, chances are you have not been there.
  
  The learning curve was not too steep to play the game. The graphics were very acceptable (no Far 
 Cry or Doom 3) , but this game is not of the same calibre as the latest and greatest either. I did 
 find that once an area was secured, it would not be unusual to find yourself traversing it again, 
 but for a different reason. You not only have the terrorists, but the SWAT team coming in is a 
 problem, since you should not be shooting them (good guys) .
  
  The price of the game was reasonable and I thoroughly enjoyed playing it. The game play prompted 
 me to watch the movie again. Both are great!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
