-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Diggles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/diggles/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 22, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.6, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 58 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Innonics
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 20, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lethargic gameplay makes Diggles much less than the sum of its parts. 

 Dwarves are the blue-collar workers of mythology. In a typical fantasy setting, these short and 
 stout creatures are always the hardiest of souls, most at home when they're digging through solid 
 rock. So while elves are singing songs in the forests, and knights are rescuing maidens fair, dwarves 
 are busy with picks and hammers far underground. As a result, they are often excluded from the 
 lead role in heroic tales... and in computer games.           As you might expect, diggles love 
 to dig.    

  That isn't the case in Diggles: The Myth of Fenris, a real-time strategy game from Innonics that 
 puts dwarves front and center. This twist on the usual order of things is accompanied by some promising 
 design ideas that blend traditional RTS base-building and resource collection with role-playing 
 elements reminiscent of virtual life games like Creatures. But although these two disparate genres 
 have been combined almost seamlessly, lethargic gameplay makes the whole game much less than the 
 sum of its parts. Every action that your dwarves undertake takes so long that you'll spend more 
 time watching and waiting than playing. You might as well be watching TV. And at times, you'll 
 wish that you were.   

  In some ways, you've already seen the stars of Diggles on television. Although the curiously named 
 clan of dwarves has yet to sign a series deal with CBS, the creatures have more than a passing 
 resemblance to the Smurfs. The designers may have cooked up a plot inspired by medieval mythology, 
 but their lead characters owe more to Hanna-Barbera than to Norse sagas. The game's graphics are 
 deliberately cartoonlike, and the diggles have exaggerated facial features. Big eyes and bulbous 
 noses are everywhere. Objects in the game are similarly fashioned; most are oversized and strangely 
 proportioned. Everything is slightly off-kilter and colorfully abstract, in the same way as a Saturday-morning 
 cartoon.   

  For the most part, Diggles' cartoonlike look and feel work well enough. The tone throughout the 
 game is lighthearted and cute, but not sickeningly so. The diggles are sweet and innocent, but 
 in a  Three Stooges  sort of way that includes a lot of pratfalls and dumb behavior that'll probably 
 make you shake your head a few times. Diggles' bright 3D visuals and simple colors further establish 
 this mood, as does the simplistic, side-scrolling platform style of play.           All the diggle 
 races need to spend time playing.    

  Other aspects of Diggles aren't nearly as effective. While the light subject matter is a welcome 
 change from that in traditional RTS games, most of the humor is awkward and poorly timed. Pauses 
 in the middle of dialogue sequences ruin a lot of the one-liners, which at any rate aren't anything 
 to write home about. The game's voice-acting quality is generally poor, something that makes the 
 humor seem even more forced. In-game audio effects are almost completely missing in action. Birds 
 chirp and the drum-centric soundtrack beats away in the background, though the diggles themselves 
 are completely silent except when they're speaking in cutscenes.   

  More problematic is the omission of multiplayer support. For reasons known only to Innonics, the 
 company shipped Diggles without a multiplayer mode of any kind. There is a single-player skirmish 
 option, however, and the campaign plot is clever. Instead of being sent up against some enemy force 
 in a series of nondescript set-piece battles, the diggles are asked by Odin to find his lost dog. 
 Fenris has broken his leash and fled into the underworld, and you've been promised demigod status 
 if you can bind him with a mystical chain called the Gleipnir. To find him, you need to build bases, 
 dig tunnels, fight enemies, solve the occasional puzzle, collect valuable items and weapons, and 
 do a lot of exploring. This is where the game's fatal flaw rears its ugly head. Almost everything 
 that you do takes too much time. Building a basic structure occupies a diggle for at least a minute, 
 typically longer, as does packing up a building for transport to a new location. Digging is similarly 
 drawn out, as is chopping down the mushrooms used for food and some construction. Even the act 
 of traveling from one location to another is tiresome, since the diggles don't move very quickly 
 on their stubby legs, even when double-clicked into a skipping run.    

 More of an issue is the personality that Innonics has built into the diggles. Dwarves are known 
 for being methodical, but these creatures are downright pokey. They get around to your orders when 
 they feel like it, often futzing around for 30 seconds or more before rolling up their sleeves 
 and getting to work. Even on those rare occasions when they do hop to it, they take an extra few 
 seconds to put on headgear appropriate to the task at hand (a chef's hat while cooking, a helmet 
 with a light on it while digging, and so on) . This causes no shortage of frustration, first because 
 you think that the game isn't responsive, then because you realize that the developers planned 
 and implemented this as a feature. In the design documents, this probably seemed like a great way 
 to emphasize the individuality of your diggles. But while you're actually playing the game, this 
 trait is so frustrating that it may make you want to reach inside your monitor and crush every 
 diggle you can grab.           The diggle mating dance goes on.    

  Slowing things down still further is the role-playing system. Each diggle is treated as an individual, 
 with a name and typical human needs and desires. Click on a diggle and a menu will pop up showing 
 his or her current levels of satisfaction in regard to health, nutrition, alertness, and mood. 
 The former two categories mean that you have to keep your charges fed, while the latter require 
 a balance between work and leisure time. All create unnecessary drags on gameplay. Making sure 
 that your diggles have enough to eat is as simple as chopping down and roasting a few mushrooms, 
 though as with everything else here, it does take a considerable amount of time and requires you 
 to delay mission objectives for minutes at a stretch. Keeping them alert and happy is more tiresome. 
 If you don't give your diggles enough time for sleep and recreational pursuits, they'll get cranky. 
 What's worse, they won't get together in cute little couples and make the little diggles needed 
 to enlarge your workforce as time goes by.   

  Everything in Diggles can be automated by use of a schedule that separates work and leisure time 
 as you see fit. Though this is a good idea in principle, it doesn't work for two reasons. First, 
 setting a schedule and sticking to it turns you into even more of a spectator. Second, your diggles 
 don't do a very good job of getting back to work when playtime ends. Though they are smart enough 
 to automatically complete tasks, they drag their heels so much that you will eventually give up 
 and issue direct orders. The only way to keep going at a reasonable enough pace to keep from falling 
 asleep yourself is to work your diggles pretty much constantly, which of course leads to a lot 
 of angry or dead little dwarves.   

  The only mitigating factor regarding diggle speed is that things do improve somewhat as the game 
 goes on. Diggles gain experience points while working at nearly every task, from chopping mushrooms 
 to using weapons, and this eventually allows them to do things at a faster rate. It takes a long 
 time to build skill levels up, however, and experience point caps cause points to be subtracted 
 from one category if you go too high in another. Also, diggles live for just 24 days of game time, 
 meaning that you constantly have to start over with a new, slow generation.           They may 
 be small, but they're no pushovers in combat.    

  It's a shame that Diggles is rather dull and lacking in features and polish, because the game mechanics 
 are generally well thought out. The interface is easy to learn and use. Although the game is played 
 as a side scroller, you can use the mouse to rotate the camera slightly to either side and the 
 mousewheel to zoom in and out. All commands are handled through the mouse buttons and a few keys. 
 Thought balloons above each diggle's head keep you aware of what task he or she is presently working 
 on. Mission objectives and big events such as an invention or birth are tracked in a news ticker 
 at the top of the screen. A streamlined list of building types and resources keeps unnecessary 
 complexity to a minimum, as does the ability to pack your structures in boxes and move them to 
 different locations. Most of the building development and technology trees are based in the fireplace, 
 which serves as a communal headquarters. Combat is a straightforward point-and-click system.   
 

  In the end, however, everything of value here means little because of the sluggish pace. As entertaining 
 as aspects of Diggles: The Myth of Fenris are, only those with a tolerance for tedium -- or perhaps 
 an addiction to caffeine -- will play the campaign beyond the first few quests. A few tweaks, along 
 with the addition of a multiplayer mode, and this could have been a good, if not great, real-time 
 strategy game based in one of the most memorable settings that the genre has seen in some time. 
 As it is, though, the game represents something of a wasted opportunity.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lisje
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I would recommend this game to anyone who likes "Settlers-type" games, and its side-scrolling, 
 vertical layout is an interesting departure from other similar games.
  
  I wish this game had reached a larger audience in the US. 
  It is one of a dozen or so classics 
 that I find myself reinstalling and replaying about twice a year. I only fear that someday the 
 disk will be damaged and it will become simply a private memory.
  
  It is endlessly replayable because of the random maps, and the personalities of the Diggles themselves 
 is somewhat random.
  
  Unfortunately, because of its age and scacity, the strategy and support sites are vanishing from 
 the web, making it more difficult for a new player to find help should it be needed, and the fact 
 that it was not entirely translated from German (for example, the wors for "pregnant" missed the 
 translators) may be initially confusing to some Americans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImplosiveD
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  After paying and then installing the Trymedia download you will go through the usual activation 
 process. (Two parts to download, by the way: The main installer and then the 'media' portion which 
 has the majority of game music and videos.) Then the frustration begins. Any attempt to enjoy the 
 Campaign mode will leave you a most unhappy camper. Unless you like an extremely choppy video experience 
 of five (5) frames/scecond! Anyway, I searched the StrategyFirst forums and came up with some promising 
 leads where others have experienced the very same problems; however, when I followed all of these 
 workarounds none were of permanent efficacy. For example, you can enable the in-game console and 
 try a certain proclaimed fix but as soon as you reload from any savegame all reverts back to the 
 dismal lagging. The same goes for the registry tweak 'fix'. None of them are permanent.
  Try if you will but don't do like I did and let the 48-hour refund window pass or you'll be stuck 
 with a lemon like me. It's funny, but this download acts just like a 'cracked' version. Yet attempting 
 to get Trymedia to admit that it's probably an issue with their activation process met with no 
 success whatsoever. All the response I got from them was three 'form' e-mails stating that they 
 only deal with download, payment and ACTIVATION issues. Duhhh! But they would offer nothing more 
 than that. Nor would they really even acknowledge with a reply that seemed to indicate they'd even 
 actually read anything I'd said. ---Activation issues --- Right. You mean like mine? ~~~~sounds 
 of crickets in nighttime countryside~~~~
  So after giving them opportunity to rectify the problem my last e-mail was simply to inform them 
 that I'd be making the forum rounds advising others to stay away from this particular bugware.
 
  Too bad really. Not just being out of the purchase price but the game does look quirky enough 
 to be rather amusing. But five fps just gets too draining of patience. At least for me after more 
 than half an hour or so. Who needs that???
  Pick up a disk copy from somewhere but stay away from Trymedia.
  Forewarned and all that ------
 
  The rankings I give it here must be regarded in light of the fact that I can't truly play this 
 particular version with any amount of 'normalcy' so take that into account.
  Best regards and good luck!
  
  New successful workaround can now be found on the StrategyFirst 
 forum concerning Diggles!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gissamuel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2005 1:15 am PT
Review:  I tried the Demo to this game and enjoyed every part of it. that I had to buy it. You are over 
 a colony of dwarves that build, dig , and fight their way to find Odin's lost pet puppy, Fenris 
 the Hound of Hell. I did not like the idea of playing a game that has other gods in it, but the 
 diggles act more like he is a bumbling trouble maker than a god. The game is a hybrid of RPG and 
 RTS. The RTS part comes with the building and strategizing. You will fight different underworld 
 creatures and gain more diggles. The RPG side is all Diggles have a leveling system in a way. The 
 more points in a field will open up other areas to research and build.
  The Graphics to the game are really amazing but simplified in a way like the Sims. When they build 
 stuff you will see them go through set sequences for each piece of material needed to build something. 
 The sound is amazing except for the Sulfer area. I did not like it because it reminded me of people 
 screaming in pain like Hell. Other than that this is a real neat game to play with and mess with. 
 Be careful because it can be a long and boring game. There is several bugs in the game that cause 
 trouble, but i just think it is so fun that it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poppi44
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 4, 2003 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This game makes me want to cry. This could have been a game at the top of my favorites list 
 if not for all the annoying aspects. There are so many things I like about the game. It has so 
 many possibilities. But, I just cant make myself play it for more than 20 or 30 hours. And, 
 if you have played this game at all you know that 20 or 30 hours isnt very much time at 
 all. 
  
  Three times I tried to play this game. Once when I first got it. Then later when I had some time 
 and wanted a non-fighting strategy game. Then after I got a much better computer. The game is slow. 
 Very, very slow. My new computer is generations better than my old computer and I didnt 
 notice much speed increase. I was hoping the new computer would stop the jerkiness and allow me 
 to scroll around faster, if not get the diggles to move faster. 
  
  The controls are awkward. The little menu that allows you to select a diggle keeps jumping to the 
 top of the list and makes you scroll to find the diggles name, click once to select, scroll 
 again to find your diggles name, then click again to jump to the diggle onscreen. Awkward and increasingly 
 annoying. 
  
  The object of the game and your actions are very entertaining. Your diggles are just too slow and 
 crabby. Each diggle has a set time they will work and relax, although you can adjust this or take 
 total control. But, once you start digging tunnels that are far from your base it could take their 
 whole working cycle to get there and once you get them there and try to make them work they start 
 getting crabby. Sometimes I would just walk away and let them live for a few hours to get everyone 
 back to happy mode. Unfortunately, some of my diggles would have died of old age when I came back. 
 
  
  Diggles also gained in skill which was supposed to make them do the tasks faster. Unfortunately, 
 finding a diggle that was willing to do the work and not relaxing was difficult so I would find 
 myself assigning anyone to do the work. This would play havoc with their skill ratings and I never 
 got my diggles to specialize correctly.
  
  I dont mind playing games that arent all reflex. I like the civilization building 
 games and games that allow you to wander around and explore. The excruciating amount of time that 
 everything takes was just too difficult to stick with it.
  
  Writing of this game makes me want to load it up and play. I know that after a few hours I will 
 once again get irritated at the slowness and what this game could have been and quit. It has the 
 feel of a game that could have been one of my favorites but because of the problems is not. A few 
 patches to this game could have brought it to that level. It appears the game designers just dropped 
 it after releasing. I find it hard to believe that anyone play tested this game or that the designers 
 listened to any complaints and fixed things. A very large disappointment. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
