-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Diner Dash
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/dinerdash/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 29, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.4, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 484 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Big Fish Games
Developer: GameLab
Genre: Puzzle
Date:     Jan 12, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Diner Dash is one of the best casual games we've played yet. 

  Everyone always says that the restaurant business is tough, but this action puzzle game proves 
 it beyond a shadow of a doubt and provides a lot of entertainment in the bargain. You control Flo, 
 a newcomer to the service industry, and you have to help her single-handedly wait on all the tables 
 in her new restaurant. This means you have to seat customers, take their orders, serve them their 
 food, get them their checks, and bus their tables for the next group. All of these activities are 
 driven with a simple point-and-click interface that will send Flo scurrying from table to kitchen 
 to dirty dish bin and back again -- hopefully before the customers get mad and leave. As you play 
 through the game, you'll learn how to chain actions together, seat customers according to the color 
 of their clothes for extra multipliers, distract them with music and chitchat, and quell their 
 anger with coffee and tiki drinks. Before too long, you'll also start encountering different types 
 of customers, like college students and senior citizens, who have different levels of patience 
 and generosity. This great-looking game will soon have you obsessed over increasing the efficiency 
 of your restaurant. It's a great purchase all the way around.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ravenhoe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 10:22 am PT
Review:  
  Diner Dash is fun, no question in that, but rating this game as high as Diablo 2, Civilization 
 VI or Fallout 3 is just crazy. It is a carefully crafted casual game that calls for a quick eye 
 and even quicker reactions but it basically a mouse click fest, an agility game, where you have 
 to hammer away at the right spots on the screen while not losing your head over what is going on. 
 The presentation is pretty standard and unimaginative, so I do not see any aesthetic or 'indie' 
 appeal (like so many indie titles have) . I played it for a few hours (not in one go) and I noticed 
 it to be fun but nothing but a timekiller that did not really entertain or excite me, but sustained 
 me for a few hours here and there when I was too tired or uninspired to play a real game.
  
  A nice coffeebreak title, nothing more, nothing less ...
  
  Yet, there are far better casuals 
 around, which lack the media attention (compared to DD that is) , such as Monster's Den - Book of 
 Dread (Kongregate) . You should give that one a go !
  
  
  Henrik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  ==== Story ====
  
  Flo is in a hectic job she hates, so she decides to open a small restaurant with dreams of making 
 it big. Before that, she'll have to prove herself by being the best waitress ever and moving up 
 the ranks of the restaurant business.
  
  == Overall Gameplay Description ==
  
  The player is Flo who is trying to make $$$ to advance her new restaurant business. The screen 
 shows a restaurant layout with a kitchen, lineup, dirty dish bin, and several tables. On each level 
 (called a shift) customers enter and line up. They must be seated, ordered from, served and their 
 tables cleaned using a simple "point+click" interface. Flo attempts to minimize the number of dissatisfied 
 customers before the shift ends for the day. The main modes, are "career" where there are over 
 50 levels of increasing difficulty. Also is "endless shift" where players play one shift to score 
 as high as possible.
  
  Easy at first but really, DDash DOES get hard. Customers start pouring in and if you do things 
 sloppy you'll quickly encounter either a crowded lineup, all tables full, too many orders to service.
 
  
  The game is a relaxing (but fast paced) way to spend some time. A few shifts have unique rules 
 such as all customers of one type, or a "quick round" where customers leave RIGHT after eating, 
 these are uncommon however. After getting the technique down of handing the customer types, the 
 strategy does get repetitive but trying to beat the high score on a shift adds replayability.
 
  
  DDash can be picked up for less than $10 in the software section of a Wal-Mart or similar store. 
 It can be played free online and there are a few hand-helds that have versions too. For such a 
 small investment, players should definitely pick it up and try it out without expecting anything 
 groundbreaking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  This game puts you in a scenario that is far closer to reality than most of the games you'll ever 
 see with an M sticker on the front. There aren't any aliens or vampires. There are just restaurants. 
 There is just... a normal day at work. 
  
  And there's more competition and pressure than you could imagine.
  
  You play as someone assigned 
 to wait on customers in a variety of dining and shop environments. There's a cruise ship and a 
 bakery. You have to hurry to clear the tables; you have to make sure you put a topping on a cake, 
 instead of putting a cake on top of another cake. Watch your counter space!
  
  Some days you will beat your sales goals, other days you won't succeed in anything but losing your 
 grip. Still, it's a bit more fun and less weird than Burger Time or Tapper, and that's an improvement. 
 Play it for laughs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanm3000
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I THINK ABOUT DINER DASH IS A WONDERFUL GAME EVEN MY DAUGHTER PLAY IT ALL THE TIME TILL SHE FINISHES 
 ALL THE LEVELS, I MEAN ITS HER BEST GAME IN PC AND EVEN I LIKE IT TO BUT I ONLY PLAY IT FOR A WHILE 
 , THERE ARE PLENTY OF DINER DASHES, AND I LIKED THEM ALL, BUT THE MOST THING I LIKED  
 DASH, FLO ON THE GO. AND I REALLY REALLY LIKE ALL THE AMES THE SERVOUS FOOD AND ARCADE GAMES, BUT 
 I REALLY LIKED DINER DASH MOSTLY, AND I REALLY LIKE THE GRAPHICS, THE TITLE AND I REALLY LIKED 
 THE MUSIC OF THE GAME, AND I WISH THE DIRECTORS OF DINERDASH WILL DO AN OTHER GAME ABOUT IT BUT 
 MORE AMAZING AND EXCITING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormRaider31
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  It could just be me not figuring out what the pattern is yet or it could be just a very well written 
 game. Not sure yet but I really like this cute diversion into restauranterville. The storyline 
 is what too many of us adults experience in todays work place: over worked, underpaid, unappreciated, 
 cogs in a mismanaged greed driven corporate wheel. The main character Flo (which you control) decides 
 to spread her entrepreneurial wings and get the heck out of corporate life. You then have 2 choices 
 you can play out a career path or you can play out a more open ended version of the game. Both 
 are satisfying. I have not finished the game Im on part 2 of what appears to be a 4 part game. 
 And I have played the open ended version of the game as well. Both are a challenge for me and the 
 more I play the more I want to play and want to win. Now, if there is a single winning pattern, 
 I have not found it yet or have not perfected it yet hence the challenge. But even if there is 
 no one set pattern, the replay value will probably be minimal for the career portion of the game. 
 There are two goals a normal goal and an expert goal the expert goal I assume is to encourage replay 
 so for perfectionist that really like these sorts of games replay is assured. For everyone else, 
 hmmm maybe, maybe not; but for 10 bucks who cares its a great game. The music is not distracting 
 and fades easily into the background. The graphics are good, not state of the art but they dont 
 need to be, in fact that would have been a waste for what amounts to a low stress, fun, diversion 
 from whatever else youre doing. However I did encounter eyestrain while playing and had to rest 
 my eyes between goals. Sound effects are minimal and non distracting. The goals and rewards make 
 sense and give you a great feeling of accomplishment; but sometimes the penalties can seem a little 
 steep. Never the less if you like simple action (point and click) games that are diversions instead 
 of immersions dont miss this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Diner Dash is cheap thrills that dull out after several rounds. For around 20 USD, it's still fun 
 at the lowest common denominator and the system requirements are low. In D. D, you own a simple 
 restaurant (leading to improvements round after round) serving coffee and food etc.. The gameplay 
 is a basic point/ click/ drag on a stone-age 2D screen, where to click on your custumers, lead 
 them to an empty table, serve the food etc. I must admit it's quite fun at the basic level if you 
 need to kill some time. Diner Dash has no depth or intensity that other games offer and the repetitive 
 game play described dulls D. D rather too quickly.... In the long run, it would be best to hold 
 on that 20 USD and and spend or save up to buy some other choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InnocentWitness
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This game was really fun to me, because i used to be a waiter for my dad's restaurant. So i understand 
 Flo's pain when she has to serve the demands to different customer types. Whether it's one of her 
 impatient fellow businesswomen, or some seniors asking for a free lobster crab cake, the game demands 
 you to be efficient, knowing the different characteristics to handle large crowds. I actually wish 
 this game was a little longer, but besides that i found myself a bit teed off at certain locations. 
 I find myself annoyed by the fact that the appetizer is near the container that holds the dishes. 
 I find myself grabbing a bun rather than dumping the dishes in the tub in very hectic situations. 
 Panic does not work well for this game, as one must be coolheaded to handle the situation. Another 
 problem for me is the podium. Flo has to stand there for about 7 seconds before she can charm the 
 people waiting on line with her chatter. And the free drinks to calm the people down takes way 
 to long to refill. Besides these minor flaws, this game exercises diversity by giving several challenges. 
 The game does not focus solely on throwing customers one after another. This is emphasized largely 
 in the last level, where the deity judges Flo if she is worthy to become a restaurant mogul. I 
 do have to admit that the score Gamespot gave was too nice. The game isnt THAT good, but it sure 
 is entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easteast
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  Diner Dash is really just a web game that got really popular on Yahoo. com, and people started to 
 buy the full version. I'm not saying that this is a bad thing, I just wanted to give some background 
 first.
  
  The gameplay is simple, but fun. It gets repetitive after a while, but when the levels get continuosly 
 harder as you go on, the repetitiveness of it won't set in for quite a while. This is a really 
 good, classic puzzle game.
  
  The sound, well, the sound is pretty much just sound effects that occur when you do something right 
 or wrong. Oh, also, the conradulatory music that plays when you finish a level, but that's pretty 
 much it.
  
  Diner Dash starts out easy, but gets progressively harder, like I mentioned before. With 3 different 
 resteraunts to work at, you will have a great time experiencing each style of resteraunt. Overall, 
 this is a pretty good game! It is a real time-killer, so if you just want to spend a whole day 
 playing this, you probably can't because it's a bit short, but you will definetly have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thestrateger
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  rock it on, duds!!
  
  it is very good game, and very fun game too.
  but it is don't has a very good graphics and its his gameplay is not the best...
  the game diner 
 dash is has very good sound, and many sounds too,
  but if you was playing at the game, you can watch and see how the game is very pressuring when 
 you at the last levels, because it is very very fast game...
  
  when you play the game you can see a many different places and many different upgrades to your 
 diner.
  
  and when you upgrade your diner you can see how much it help you and how much it doesn't helps 
 you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 9, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Diner Dash is a fairly entertaining little game and possibly, although not likely, one of the better 
 simplistic games out there. But just as a point of perspective, Gamespot gave Bejeweled 2 an 8.4 
 and Bookworm a 7.2. And you say that Diner Dash deserves a 9.1? I don't think so, folks...
  
  And as an even further point of perspective, Gamespot gave the original X-Com a 9.0, The Sims 
 2 an 8.9, Duke Nukem 3D an 8.8, and Medieval: Total War an 8.7. And you say that Diner Dash gets 
 a 9.1?!?! You absolutely MUST be joking!!! I played Diner Dash and if it's a 9.1, Diablo 2, Civilization 
 4, or World of Warcraft are at least a 45.3. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 11, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  If you are a person whom loves organization, puzzle, and chaos all rolled into one package... this 
 is the game for you. DIner Dash is a great game in the respect that you seldom have time to rest 
 while playing it as you are always busy managing something. Poor Flo got tired of her office job 
 that was chaos and decided to open an easy restaurant... YEAH RIGHT! With different customers coming 
 at her on a daily basis... this makes her day nothing short of interesting.
  The game play is simple... you run a diner and you are all of the following. The greeter, seater, 
 order taker, food handler, & cleanup person all wrapped up into one person! Sounds easy eh... not! 
 In early levels you will be given an easy task of only having a few customers. As time goes on 
 and you start to expand your seating and different things you can offer, it gets crazy. Different 
 customers get upset easily when they have to wait in line a long time or don't get the food in 
 time. As your restaurant fills... you day gets crazy! 
  The graphics are pretty nice in that it is more of a cartoon game than a regular video game. Bright 
 colors and simple decor make this game an eye candy for most. Sound is pretty basic... you get 
 the standard restaurant sounds along with the occasional customers chatter. 
  Keeping people happy is the name of the game here... the happier they are the more money you make 
 and expand! The one thing I really like about this game is that you can go back and play any level 
 over and over again for each has a score you must achieve in order to advance to the next round. 
 Then it has a star score as well for those who can get the most out of each round. Matching peoples 
 attire to the seat they set in and being quick on your feet to both seat and serve them is the 
 name of the game here. Along with a thing they call chaining bonus ( doing the same thing more 
 than once in a row ) gains you super points and is the ultimate key! 
  In conclusion... it is a great game that you will find yourself playing again and again. Not alot 
 of flash here... just simply chaos that needs organization in a timely manner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakita87
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  In this game, you play a woman who wants to get away from the pressure of a desk job. Then she 
 has this brilliant idea to open her own restaurant.
  You're the owner, operator and sole employee, besides the chef so you have to seat customers, take 
 their orders, take their food to them, give them the check and bus their tables - all on the customers' 
 terms. You won't be able to do an action too soon but if you take too long, they'll leave and if 
 a customer leaves, you lose a lot of money. If you have a second between actions you can bring 
 customers drinks or stand at the podium, both of which bring up the customers' moods. You can also 
 get bonuses for seating customers in the same colour chair and for doing the same action more than 
 once in a row.
  I might make this sound hard but the early levels are really easy and very addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: annabell_33
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  I love this game, this is one of the best games I have played. If you want something to keep the 
 kids busy sometimes, then this is the game for them too. I have to play this game at least once 
 a day. I try to play more times a day but sometimes I can't but I have to have my fix of Diner 
 Dash. I am really glad that I bought the game, it's definitely worth the money and worth the time 
 it takes to play. I hope that other people find this game and try it. They too will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  In one of my rare "I have nothing to play" moments, I headed out to scout for new games, and came 
 across something called Diner Dash. Although I didn't find any detailed reviews to learn more about 
 it (just a simple fact sheet) , it seemed like a good strategy/puzzle game, so I decided to give 
 it a try.
  
  In Diner Dash, you help Flo building her restaurant empire. Her only employee is her cook, so she 
 does everything else. Flo seats the customers, takes their orders, brings the food, picks up the 
 check and cleans the tables. In the meantime, you have to look out for seat colors and customer 
 colors if you want added bonus points, plus serve drinks or bring them bread sticks to make your 
 customers happier. Running the restaurant involves quite a bit of work!
  
  If your customers happen to become extremely unhappy, they'll get up and leave. Keeping an eye 
 on their moods is a sure way to keep things running smoothly. There's a little heart meter on their 
 tables to help you see how much they like you and your business. Being quick in seating and serving 
 them will make them happy. Bringing them drinks and seating them on the respective colored seats 
 is the little "happiness bonus".
  
  HINT: Double click on a table where everyone's finished to pick up the check and the dirty dishes. 
 You can click several things (it leaves a checkmark on the spot Flo is to go) and basically create 
 an action queue. It makes service faster.
  
  There are 5 five different types of customers. 
  
  the young woman, friendly customer, gives 
 good tips and is moderately patient. 
  the kind elderly man: a lot more patient in line and at the table, doesn't tip so well. 
  the 
 businesswoman: tips very well, but is very impatient. 
  the college student: gives reasonable tips, is really impatient in line, but likes to linger at 
 the table. 
  Mr. Hot Shot: tips well, waits patiently in line, but hates waiting at the table. 
  the restaurant 
 critic: VIP customer, gives you a star if she leaves pleased, but costs you points if she doesn't 
 get a good impression. 
  
  HINT: Elderly customers are slower choosing from the menu and they take their time eating. They 
 also tip less, so make younger customers your priority for the chance of a better tip. 
  
  There are two gameplay modes for you to try, Endless Shift and Career.
  
  In Endless Shift, 
 you keep on serving customers until a certain number of angry patrons decide to leave in anger. 
 As you complete a level, you will have a shopping menu where you pick some extras to furnish your 
 restaurant with or to improve your service. Here's a list: 
  
  Podium: Flo can use it to make the customers waiting in line happier. 
  Drink station (coffee, 
 tiki, etc) : give your customers a free drink to make them happier. 
  Snack station: when customers request an item from it, you better bring it to them fast. 
  Stereo: 
 helps keep people at the tables happy. 
  Performer: helps keep people waiting in line happy. 
  Oven: helps the cook prepare meals faster. 
 
  Running shoes: they make Flo walk faster. 
  
  In Career mode, your restaurant actually closes at the end of the day. The focus of this game mode 
 is to make enough money to keep the restaurant in business by meeting each goal. You eventually 
 move on from the diner to opening a tiki restaurant, then a seafood eatery and progress through 
 a total of five different restaurants.
  
  As your restaurant becomes more sophisticated, so do your customers. They will have less patience 
 for waiting in line, love to be pampered with free goodies and if given the chance they might walk 
 away without paying.
  
  HINT: Picking up two orders or serving two dishes in a row (chain) gives you bonus points and it's 
 a good way to work when your restaurant gets exceptionally busy.
  
  On higher levels, running the restaurant becomes a frenzy of hopping from table to table, juggling 
 plates and trying to seat everyone. It's a ton of fun. A mix of strategy, management and puzzle 
 make this game surprisingly addictive in all its simplicity.
  
  You can download the trial at the PlayFirst site and enjoy a good hour of a fast-paced game with 
 cool characters, funny animations, enjoyable music and realistic sound effects.
  
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=dinerdash 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jak_man1011
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 29, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  3 words for you. Get Diner Dash! You will be playing for hours! This game sounds bad but you will 
 be surpised at what you see. Its a great game with a lot of good qualities. Its simple but it gets 
 harder and harder as you go. Great idea, Great delivery. GREAT GAME! What more do you need. This 
 game will blow you mind. Sweep you off your feet and surpise you. Diner Dash is extremely awesome. 
 See for yourslef. Know I will end the way I began. 3 words. Get Diner Dash! Oh! And I will add 
 just one more word to my review. NOW! Overall 8.2 Great Jak_Man1011's Choice 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
