-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Diplomacy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/diplomacy2005/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It looks like a decent 3D translation of the board game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bizarre and confusing diplomacy system.
 Convoluted and overly worded tutorial.
 The AI sucks and won't be mistaken for a human anytime soon.
 Gruntinglots and lots of grunting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  8, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 6.4, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 139 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 4, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The latest attempt to translate the famous board game gets mired in some dubious design decisions 
 and bad AI. 

  The original incarnation of Diplomacy is regarded as one of the greatest strategy board games ever 
 made, and as a result, it has been translated to the computer on several occasions. But somewhere 
 along the way, those versions lost some of the board game's charm. Now comes Diplomacy by Paradox 
 Interactive, the strategy game maker responsible for Europa Universalis. On the surface, this Diplomacy 
 looks to be a pretty faithful and straightforward translation of the board game. However, Paradox's 
 Diplomacy runs into the same problems that the other video game versions of Diplomacy have encountered, 
 and it's made much worse by some bizarre decisions made on Paradox's part.  

          The order and diplomacy system is complicated and convoluted, and it's at the heart of 
 this game.     

  At its heart, Diplomacy is a game about the disastrous alliances that led to World War I, and, 
 as such, it's a game that relies heavily on human interaction. In the board game version of Diplomacy, 
 you control a European power and must wheel and deal with your other players each turn. You have 
 to gauge how much you can trust them, and create alliances of convenience to crush the current 
 king of the hill. It's an incredibly intense experience, because you'll huddle with your own allies 
 and make your plans, while other players (representing other countries) also huddle together and 
 whisper in the corner. To make it worse, you don't know how much you can trust your allies, so 
 the best you can do is make plans and then hope that they deliver on their promises during the 
 simultaneous resolution phase. Needless to say, there are countless moments in the history of Diplomacy 
 when players have been backstabbed by their supposed friends.  

  Paradox's Diplomacy gets the look and feel of the board game down, almost uncannily so. The board 
 game has literally been translated to 3D, so what you'll see is a 3D representation of the board. 
 You can pick up and drop little army and navy counters to determine your moves. Though Diplomacy 
 has a fairly simplistic look, there's a complex set of rules that go along with it. To help you 
 along, Paradox has set up an in-depth, multistep tutorial that will get you up to speed, though 
 not quickly. The tutorial is a bit too convoluted and wordy for its own good, and it's made worse 
 by some weird formatting issues that crop up in the text. Still, if you persevere for an hour or 
 so, then you'll know enough to get going in the single-player campaign.  

  You'll quickly discover that this virtual version of Diplomacy unfolds just like the board game 
 version. You take charge of one of seven European powers of the era, and each turn you must plot 
 your moves, as well as negotiate with potential allies to get them to coordinate with you. Since 
 the game is designed so it's impossible to win on your own, you must create alliances. Diplomacy's 
 order system is a bit confusing at first, because you have to learn to not only plot your own moves, 
 but also juggle multiple negotiations with other countries so that you can plot out those proposed 
 moves. If a country accepts your ideas, you can then "convert" proposed orders into real orders, 
 and then hold your breath in the resolution phase to see if that country keeps its promise.  

 
  Unfortunately, this version of Diplomacy suffers from several crippling issues, perhaps the biggest 
 of which is the bizarre, avatar-based language system. Rather than using actual language to communicate 
 between players, Diplomacy uses a system of universal grunts and other noises to communicate pleasure 
 and displeasure. In the turn-resolution phase, you'll see the orders for the turn carried out, 
 and you'll see avatars representing the various countries appear onscreen to grunt or aah to convey 
 their reaction to the moves. It's difficult to understand what exactly is happening onscreen, thanks 
 to the many quick camera cuts and shifts that make it easy to lose your orientation. All that you'll 
 hear are just a series of grunts over and over again.  

          Go ahead, make a permanent alliance. The AI will just ignore it as soon as it can.     
 

  The artificial intelligence itself is also a big issue, since it has absolutely no sense of personality 
 or memory. It will always backstab you if you leave your nation vulnerable, even if you've signed 
 a permanent peaceful agreement with it. Considering that the entire point of Diplomacy is the idea 
 that you're wheeling and dealing with a cunning opponent and weighing how much you can trust him 
 or her, having an AI that doesn't emulate any kind of real human being just doesn't make sense. 

  Of course, it doesn't help that the multiplayer aspect of Diplomacy is crippled by the convoluted 
 order and diplomacy system found in the single-player portion of the game. The entire point of 
 Diplomacy is human interaction and figuring out how far you can trust another human being with 
 your life. When you're reduced to mainly drawing arrows on a map, the sense of wheeling and dealing 
 is largely gone. Diplomacy also suffers from some annoyingly long load times, which is surprising 
 for a game that takes up a fraction of the disk space of other, modern games. When it's all said 
 and done, this can be a painful experience at times. When diplomacy is reduced to grunting, you 
 can imagine just how successful it can ultimately be.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Snake_IV
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  If you read the revies around much of the complains are not longer/were never valid. Sure, Paradox 
 did this badly, but Diplomacy as a game is so good it evens out. Granted, the AI is BAD, but Diplomacy 
 is not meant to be played with a computer, and you can't teach a computer to think as a human anyway, 
 so MP is the only way to use this game. And MP is worth it. It might be claimed around here that 
 there is no good way to negotate even in MP, but this is old info. The game supports private chat, 
 and that is the way you will negotate so that the negotation system is hard understood isn't very 
 relevant. Understanding what is going on is not hard with a little fix, called imidiate resolve 
 , which means that you get the map with all the moves to look around at, rather than the comfusing 
 show one by one way that you have otherwise, and this function has always been there. Many of the 
 other reviers don't seem to have found this out, which isn't very strongly done by them as the 
 first thing out should try to do when you start playing is getting rid of the annoying grunts, 
 which this function does, unless you of some reason enjoy them, and few seem to do.
  
  So, if you look upon the things that are bad according to Gamespot:
  Bizarre and confusing diplomacy 
 system. Matters little, you chat in MP
  
  convoluted and overly worded tutorial; If you have played Diplomacy before you can learn enough 
 of this variant by playing a short SP game just to get used to the game. If you have not played 
 Diplomacy before you can google on the rules and read them as they are in the board game. In any 
 case you don't have to care about the tutorial very much in my opinion.
  
  the ai sucks and won't be mistaken for a human anytime soon; You will play with humans.
  
  
 grunting... lots and lots of grunting.. Easily taken care of
  
  So all in all, with the prize you find Diplomacy for in ebay (around 5$) it is well worth a try, 
 unless you didn't like Diplomacy to begin with (that is, the board game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shan3st3r
Rating: 1.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  The best thing about this game implementation is the 3D map. Unfortunately, even controlling the 
 map views is full of bugs. The sad part is that the game itself is unplayable. As the Gamespot 
 review says, treaties are pointless. The AI will always attack you. And the GUI makes it impossible 
 to know what is going on, which is quite problematic considering that the whole point of the game 
 is negotiations.
  
  This implementation is broken with a capital B. Nothing about the UI makes sense. The grunting 
 is one of the most insane things I've ever seen - I honestly thought my video card was incompatible 
 with the game! You cannot tell what moves have or have not been made. You cannot tell whether other 
 players have accepted your proposals or living up to them.
  
  Completely unfun and unplayable. Avoid with prejudice and shame on Paradox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dorwin
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Diplomacy, some say the greatest board game of it's time! I myself have never played so i can't 
 judge. It is set just before WW1. If the board game is anything like the the game then i don't 
 know how good it is. 
  
  The idea of the game is good, this is sadly let down by what I think was lack of time making the 
 game. The animations are poor and are quite pointless. Most of the animation is an avatar in the 
 conner looking quite shocked.
  
  The game is still quite a good idea. I agree that it is a brillant stadedgy game. This still dosn't 
 make up for the fact it looks like it was put together in a week. There are many ways it could 
 be improved. 
  
  The diffuculty various depending on which country you choose. It takes about two hours to completly 
 learn the controls. This is without the Tutorial because it seems to last forever. 
  
  If they ever improved this game I would give it a thought in buying it. If games like this interest 
 you then think of buying one of the Total War Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  Ok, it's a good game. But the fact that I've play two game at the higher level and beat the AI 
 without even a single alliance or negotiation says it all. It's a shame cause this game would have 
 been good. Playing on line is much more fun but for me the fact that you cannot talk with other 
 poeple and most of all that you cannot play by e-mail is something I cannot understand. Common. 
 There are over a 100 sites of PBEM for diplomacy on the net and no one at paradox thought that 
 maybe that option would have been nice? Paradox is still living in their own little world with 
 their Crappy manuals and not listening to the players. They can do very good games (crusader kings) 
 not so bad games (Diplomacy) and crapy games (too long a list) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: makinder2004
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 3:13 am PT
Review:  To put it mildly, this game will push your patience to the limits as you struggle to come to terms 
 with the poor gameplay features and dismal graphic effects, yet to be honest, if you dont hold 
 back you might just end up slamming the game in the garbage (rubbish) bin, or even worse right 
 at the wall. I felt so at some point and after a while developed thorough dismay for Paradox's 
 latests title, Intitially I expected something along the lines of Europa Univesralis ( which if 
 you care to know, remains one of the best RTS games ever made, not glitzy at all, but rather low 
 key, witth a 2d world map, yet with high replayability value, historic auttenticity, original gameplay 
 ideas- deepness ... if u can get it instaed of Diplomacy TRUST ME on this, YOU WILL LOVE IT!!) , 
 but received a poor attempt at translating Negotiation based Hasbros Board Game Diplomacy into 
 the Pc game version. It sucks big time because:
  
  1. The Nations Avatars ,are odd to the point of annyoing , making all kind of grunts etc, Well 
 for those who indulge in Pig Like grunt noises venetd in raipd sequence by so called Avatars this 
 will be heaven.
  
  2. Turn based game, so that kills dynamics for you. Really confusing when AI's take their turn, 
 during different phases, moving, build up phases ect. Hard to keep track of who did exactly what 
 and when as a result of what type of diplomatic or military action
  
  3. Regional Limitation: Since I love Europa Univeralis 2 (yes call me biased, he he) Grand - global 
 scope, this really threw me off, with only being able to play ion a small 3d European map, with 
 only European powers ( Ok Turkey as a non European was added to the mix) battling it out for supremacy 
 at the start of the 20Ct.
  
  4. Paradox in my opinion, needs to buck up, and extend Europa Universalis 2 or Victoria An Empire 
 Under Sun into the Modern Age ( this is something for soem reason they are avoiding, it would be 
 awsome to replay history from 1918 until now) . Nobody cares for this Diplomacy Bull ##%$%$# , 
 
  
  5. JUST DONT BOTHER WITH TRYNG or BUYING IT , THERE ARE MUCH BETTER WAYS TO SPEND YOUR MONEY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevsue
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:03 am PT
Review:  Load times are ridiculous, gameplay is awful and the only aspect of the game that is worth 'listening' 
 to is the music, the rest is abysmal.
  
  What promised to be another turn based game with promise really came out full of dread and no hope. 
 This game really does deserve to be in the bottom of the bargain bin and no where else. It is that 
 appalling. Game play is shoddy. The saving grace of the game only getting 2 and a bit stars is 
 the fact is the music is quite superb and wonderful to listen to. If I close my eyes I can slip 
 away into a glorious graphically wonderful game - then I open them and see what is now this heap 
 of junk.
  
  Don't bother, it's not even worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alphamaslak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2005 11:41 am PT
Review:  Diplomacy is the one of the Hasbro Entertainment's good board games. And this is a good version 
 of the original board game. There is a map of continent of Europe in the game and you are playing 
 as a country in the World War One. There are nothing but this map and pawns on the areas. The countries 
 that you can chose in the game are Turkey, Germany, England, Russia, France, Italy and Austria&Hungary. 
 
  
  If you have played one of two Hearts of Iron games, you'll enjoy this game. It has similar gameplay 
 movements like Hearts of Iron series. Similar graphics, similar controls, and similar gameplay...
 
  
  The game has very strong AI and if you make a mistake or something not good for you, enemies around 
 you starts attack on you. You can make peace or nonagression aggreements between a country and 
 yours, so you can be more powerful. The strongest country I see in the game is Russia. Russia has 
 four pawns in the beginning of the game, the others have three.
  
  Diplomacy is a good game. High gameplay and strong AI make the game better. If you have played 
 one of two Hearts of Iron games, you will enjoy Diplomacy. Everything looks cool but graphics and 
 sound. But these aren't important in any game like that. You will enjoy the game, trust me. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
