-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dirt Track Racing 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/dirttrackracing2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 24, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.2, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 80 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Ratbag
Genre: Stock Car Racing
Date:     Sep 1, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you've never played any Ratbag games and are looking for a solid racer with an unusual subject, 
 Dirt Track Racing 2 is well worth trying out. 

 The term "budget game" will probably always have a negative connotation for many gamers, thanks 
 to the kind of low-quality shovelware we keep seeing on store shelves. But discerning gamers know 
 that "budget game" isn't always synonymous with poor quality. Along with Croteam's superb Serious 
 Sam series, Australian developer Ratbag has been proving for years that some budget games can be 
 just as good as their full-priced brethren, which might very well lead you to suspect that full-priced 
 might really mean overpriced. Ratbag has carved out a fine reputation with a series of racing games 
 built around its proprietary Difference engine, games like 1999's well-regarded Dirt Track Racing. 
 And just like its predecessors, Dirt Track Racing 2 gives you unassuming but challenging racing, 
 where hometown heroes powerslide through the mud on tiny tracks.           Plenty of tuning options 
 will keep gearheads happy.    

  In Dirt Track Racing 2, you'll find something like a cross between rally racing and NASCAR racing. 
 Like in NASCAR races, you'll race on closed, purpose-built tracks. Here, most of the 14 tracks 
 are oval variants with a few particularly dangerous figure-eight tracks thrown in for good measure. 
 True to the game's name, you'll be racing across bumpy dirt surfaces, often wet ones, regularly 
 sliding through the corners like a seasoned rally racer.   

  As if roaring sideways through turns in an 800-horsepower car weren't enough, you'll be doing it 
 on ridiculously small tracks. Many just break the half-mile mark; some are only a measly quarter-mile 
 around. The margin for error is slim at best, and since the game doesn't have any long straightaways, 
 you'll be wrangling with your car nonstop. So, while dirt track racing might not be glamorous or 
 prestigious, it can still be a fun challenge.   

  You'll get to test your skills in quick race and career modes, as well as in online multiplayer 
 mode for up to 10 players. In quick races, you can select any car and track in the game and set 
 the number of competitors and laps, the track wetness, and the AI difficulty. Unfortunately, the 
 cars are all generic, so don't expect to find any high-profile real-world cars, except by implication. 
 Whatever car you select, you can expect a real challenge. The computer-controlled drivers are no 
 pushovers, especially at the highest difficulty levels. When the race is done, you can watch and 
 save a replay, though the replay suite isn't particularly powerful.   

  Along with the quick races, you can play through a surprisingly deep career mode similar to the 
 one found in the original Dirt Track Racing. You'll start with a small amount of cash to purchase 
 your first basic car. As you win races, you'll accumulate money for repairing damage, purchasing 
 better parts, and buying new cars. As you prove your worth on the track, you'll even gain sponsorship 
 deals.   

  A major part of Dirt Track Racing 2's formula for fun is its tiny tracks coupled with powerful 
 cars and strong AI competitors. Another factor in that formula is its convincing physics modeling, 
 something Ratbag games have always been known for, even though the game's physics may not reach 
 the level of subtlety and sophistication found in Papyrus' Grand Prix Legends or NASCAR Racing 
 series. Still, it successfully portrays the power of the cars and the difficulties in keeping them 
 under control as you whip them through turns. You can select the level of handling realism, as 
 well as three levels of damage modeling: none, arcade, and simulation. If you choose simulation 
 modeling, car parts will crumple and bend and have an effect on handling, though the modeling is 
 still too relaxed and often requires you to really slam your car into something to put a serious 
 dent in it.   

  To help you get the most from the game's physics, you'll get a full array of car-tuning options 
 for the wheels, suspension, chassis, and gear ratios. These options are unusually detailed and 
 should keep gearheads happily occupied for a long time. The wheel-tuning options alone let you 
 tweak toe-in, wheel offset, brake strength, tire pressure, tire compound, and tire size individually 
 for each of the wheels, as well as stagger and steering lock, though for some reason, you don't 
 get any explanatory tooltips on the tuning screens.           Mud splatters your virtual visor. 
    

  Visually, Dirt Track Racing 2 doesn't offer any major improvements over previous Ratbag games. 
 It's true you'll see more details in the cars and tracks and some new particle effects. But on 
 the whole, the graphics still suffer from the usual blandness you might have come to expect from 
 one of Ratbag's racers. Part of that can be chalked up to the subject matter. Just how good can 
 some tiny little dirt track look, and how eye-catching can generic stock cars be compared to an 
 F1 car or a Le Mans prototype? Still, one interesting visual effect that sets the game apart is 
 the simulation of mud splattering on your helmet visor and obstructing your vision. Interestingly, 
 you get a limited number of visor "tear-offs" to peel away the grime.   

  Like the graphics, the audio in Dirt Track Racing 2 isn't all that impressive, though it is functional 
 and effective. One of the more prominent audio features is the reactive race commentary, but it's 
 actually pretty limited and doesn't offer much helpful information. You'll just hear some disembodied 
 voice yell things like, "No car can stand a beating like that!" and "What was he thinking?"   

 
  Dirt Track Racing 2 has its share of high and low points, same as any game, but the most important 
 complaint you can raise against it is that it's essentially the same game Ratbag has been making 
 for years now. If you already own the original Dirt Track Racing, Dirt Track Racing: Sprint Cars, 
 or even Leadfoot, you won't find much that's substantially new here. If, on the other hand, you've 
 never played any Ratbag games and are looking for a solid racer with an unusual subject and unusual 
 quality for a budget game, Dirt Track Racing 2 is well worth trying out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jtk2596
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Dirt Track Racing 2 is easy enough for the beginner, but challenging enough for the seasoned veteran. 
 A personal favorite among my friends and I DTR2 features 3 classes, pro stock, late model, and 
 modified. !5 cars to choose from, 14 tracks from 1/4 to 2/3 mile including 2 figure 8 tracks. Move 
 you way up the latter in 15 different racing series.
  
  The graphics and sound are competitive but by far not the strength of the game. Control, control, 
 control!! This game is fully customizable to gear ratios to left side weight balance. Build your 
 car for each track and condition to blow the competition away.
  
  I do recommend investing in a force feed back racing wheel. It brings a whole new aspect of the 
 game on full real mode.
  
  Sure the have come out with better stock car games over the years, but for the money this game 
 can be bought for now you can't go wrong. You'll have hours of mud slinging fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good racing game fun for the whole family and this will never get old.
  
  I wish they made a new one because the graphics are looking bad now that the games been out for 
 a few years but all and all the game is very fun if you have a pc steering wheel I highly reccomend 
 buying this one.
  
  Graphics:10 for the time it was made.
  Sound:8-10
  Gameplay: Steering is very good highly impressive racing game.
  Pros: feels like your on the 
 dirt.
  Cons: The Computer is a little to easy sometimes.
  
  Final thoughts:
  I reccomend buying this one if you have not already its very fun and there is still quite a few 
 multiplayer gamers on there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rangofett
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  This is a good game that gives you the ability to buy a few cars with limited variety, fix your 
 cars, buy new parts for your cars, but most importantly, the ability to tune your cars.
  
  Tuning your cars in this game is wonderfully done but you hae to know a little about cars to do 
 so, because unlike Need For Speed or other games that allow you to tune your cars, in this is says 
 what gear ratios you want, how you want to distribute your cars wieght, the air pressure of your 
 tires and things like that, not just Do you want your car to go faster or handle better, like most 
 games do. This is where the real learning curve is, as experimenting in here takes a while to get 
 the hang of.
  
  The racing is not just races, but tournaments. You can try to qualify if you want, and will get 
 some money from qualifing first, then if you win your heat, you will get some money from that, 
 and then you actually do the race. if you had a good heat, you only have to win one race to beat 
 that race, but otherwise you must win race C or D or however low your heat was, and work your way 
 up to race A. For each race you win you gain money, but the majority of the money goes to the winner 
 of race A. Once you complete that one race, then you move on to the next. Some tournaments have 
 only 4 races, while other have around 7 or 8. You can even participate in multiple tournaments, 
 but sometimes the dates conflict.
  
  Over all, there was nothing spectacular about the racing, or the cars, but the tuning and tournament 
 system really impressed me. I have enjoyed this game and think it is a 10 dollars well spent. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
