-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: DIRT - Origin of the Species
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/originofthespecies/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Much unintentional hilarity to be had.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awkward controls and game mechanics.
 Bizarre level design.
 Terrible graphics and sound.
 Save system is just a cruel joke.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 4.0, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 4.9, 225 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tri Synergy
Developer: Nu Generation
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     Nov 8, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
When Origin of the Species isn't breaking your mind with its insane storyline and terrible gameplay, 
 it's probably breaking itself with one of its many, many bugs. 

  You don't even have to open the box of DIRT: Origin of the Species to know that you're not exactly 
 dealing with an A-list game. While some might not be apt to complain about the thong prominently 
 displayed by the gun-toting girl on the cover, a couple of "Hey, wait a sec" moments are provided 
 by the apparently random quotation attributed to President James "Maison" on the inside flap and 
 a list of "intriguing" levels that places New York alongside ET hangouts Area 51, Groom Lake, and 
 "Hanger" 18. So you don't need to have access to technology from crashed flying saucers to realize 
 that the chances are pretty good that quality control isn't going to be a highlight of this third-person 
 shooter from NuGeneration Games.  

          Some of Dirt's psychic maneuvers sure look cool, but they're not all that useful during 
 gameplay.     

  And surprise, it isn't. Ugly, virtually unplayable in spots, and with a plot guaranteed to make 
 your head spin when you're not laughing at the ridiculous dialogue, Origin of the Species is quite 
 simply one of the worst games to hit hard drives in the past year.  

  The bizarro storyline is as good an example of the game's ineptitude as any. You wake up in a New 
 York City jail cell watching what looks like a giant cockroach eating a guy. Sure, we've all been 
 there. Well, in games, anyways. But none of this weirdness is readily explained or even touched 
 on later, so you can't develop any interest in finding out what's going on. You're a candy raving 
 riot grrrl wearing the "hot if it were 1999" outfit of thong panties peeking above hip-hugging 
 pants, but you have amnesia and can recall only that your nickname is Dirt, you've got some psychic 
 powers, and your friends may have abandoned you at a beach or something. A reporter who looks and 
 talks like a hooker gives you some clues about a chemical spill "in some backwater craphole," and 
 then you're off blasting giant bugs and what appear to be some kind of Special Forces commandos. 
 Just in case that last sentence makes this storyline sound a little too generic, let's now add 
 that you do all this with the aid of a sentient teddy bear backpack named Mr. Boo that tosses out 
 the occasional tip.  

  As is usual with these hackneyed man-or-woman-of-mystery plots, the tale here is gradually revealed 
 through little hints and cutscenes. Most of them make little sense, though. You might round a corner 
 and trigger some inexplicable clip of police cars being tossed through the air, or get a comic 
 book-style dialogue scene with an apparently anonymous civilian you just saved from a Kafkaesque 
 death. Level structure makes zero sense. One moment you're on a torn-up NYC street, the next you 
 walk through a doorway and you're in what looks to be some kind of Victorian mansion complete with 
 heraldic arms on the wall. Vital plot points aren't hooked into the game properly. One key plot 
 device at the start of the game, about a stranger coming to your assistance, is set up to trigger 
 in an out-of-the-way room that you don't have to enter. But the mystery man's voice-over plays 
 as you run by the room in question, so the game keeps going even if you soon wind up having to 
 backtrack to figure out what the hell this voice is talking about.  

  Sadly, in some ways the weird plot may be the game's only strength. Everything else is even worse. 
 Even though the game is dog-ugly and loaded with lots of plain, straight corridors, and character 
 models are so lacking in detail that they lack most discernible facial features, the engine is 
 such a system hog that it chugs on a lot of levels every time you turn around, and character animations 
 stutter. All these hitches make it impossible to accurately aim your weapons. You're best off to 
 resist the desire to shoot until you're close enough to see the whites of your enemies' eyes, but 
 that can be a bit of a problem when you're facing a half-dozen commandos with submachine guns. 
 Other problems make gun battles even more frustrating. You can be shot through walls. Unseen grenades 
 on the other side of a wall or door often kill you instantly. Enemies can take a crazy amount of 
 damage before expiring, unless you hit them with a shotgun blast that typically knocks them all 
 the way across rooms, or with a headshot.  

  As you've got an arsenal of psychic powers, you don't have to rely solely on armaments. But you 
 don't really have any incentive to use your mental abilities, either. While some of them are pretty 
 nifty, especially the razor disk that locks on to and decapitates up to eight bad guys, most of 
 the controls for these powers are awkward or too finicky to be of much use in combat. You typically 
 wind up freezing in place while using a power like the razor disk, or pausing after a power expires 
 like with the shield, which leaves you open to enemy gunfire. It's always easiest to just blaze 
 ahead and shoot everything that moves. Using your powers to bypass puzzles is a little more intriguing, 
 though twitchy controls don't help matters here, and most of the puzzles involve basic things like 
 manually directing a bullet to hit an out-of-the-way target and drop a laser barrier.  

          It's hard to argue with lots of senseless splatter, although you might want to give it 
 a shot in this case.     

  Other issues further wreck any chance of wringing the slightest bit of entertainment out of this 
 game. Drops to the desktop and hard crashes that reboot your machine happen on a regular basis. 
 Sometimes Dirt herself seems to just spontaneously drop dead. Vaguely innovative gameplay options, 
 such as being able to choose play styles like stealth or long-distance shooting, which earns you 
 skill points for buying weapons and ammo, simply don't work. For example, you can get bonus points 
 for stealth when blowing away a bug with a shotgun. The save system appears to work on demand, 
 in that you can apparently save anytime, anywhere, but all the function really does is save your 
 progress at the start of each level. Some of the levels are long, too, so you can find yourself 
 doing a fair bit of backtracking. Finally, the game is protected by StarForce, which can cause 
 serious problems with certain system configurations.  

  All in all, Origin of the Species is one of those games that make you want to ditch your PC and 
 take up a less aggravating hobby, like detecting land mines.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  When I bought DIRT-Origin of the Species, I thought this was going to be another one of those throw 
 away games. To my surprise, I actually enjoyed it. I will have to agree that the game has design 
 faults and requires some work-arounds even on a good PC. But I think that the StarForce anti-copy 
 software installed and required to run it is a major, if not sole contributor to those problems. 
 I think that a game player needs to enter the game with an open mind and not take it too seriously 
 and to sit back and enjoy the hidden humor. 
  
  I found the cut-scene graphics poor in quality and some seemed quite lengthy. The characters were 
 fair quality graphics while the environments were below average. I thought that the weapons were 
 good and the special powers were a blast to play with. After playing the game, I found that even 
 though the story had closure, it was written in such a way that it could easily be continued and 
 found myself wishing for a DIRT 2. I agree with other reviewers about the sound, graphics, etc. 
 but don't believe that it should be totally disregarded. In my opinion it's worth a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  The game starts well, it detects my widescreen monitor and starts in a 16:10 resolution. The cutscenes 
 however, are stretched.
  
  The game is full of bugs, and I'll list the ones I found in just the first 10 minutes, after which 
 I decided to uninstall it.
  
  - the invert mouse setting does not work.
  - you start in a prison cell, get out, get a gun and then you're back in your cell with the gun 
 (wait, didn't I just get out of the cell?)
  - the main character has all sort of special powers (telekinesis, super dodge, enhanced vision, 
 etc) that are not explained anywhere (you play with this amnesic blond who remembers only being 
 on a picnic with her friends)
  - once you get a shotgun, it's displayed on the screen (in a sort of a found new item screen) and 
 the new weapon has no texture. It's black.
  - first level is too short (about 1-2 minutes including the cutscenes)
  - the text "speed kill" 
 was displayed after every monster I killed, no matter how long it took to kill it
  - the character moves ridiculously fast compared to other characters (even faster while sidestepping)
 
  - a female NPC is killed twice by some giant bugs (a little ironic that you have to kill bugs 
 and the game is so full of them) .
  - the bugs mentioned before did not attack me until I shot at them, even though I was walking in 
 circles around them
  - the "shoot" sound disappeared after 5-10 shots
  - when you click the mouse button to skip a cutscene, it is skipped but you also fire your weapon.
 
  - the textures are obsolete (there are games 7-8 years older with better textures)
  - a few minor textures kept disappearing and reappearing or changing color
  - a few collectible 
 items were up in the air about 3 stories high with no way of getting them
  - the collision system is broken (just run to a wall and half the character is on the other side, 
 turn the other way and you can see behind the wall, outside the scenery)
  - gameplay and environment design is very repetitive (kill bugs, move to next alley to kill more 
 bugs) . Bugs vary in size and color.
  - finally I found an area filled with some green radioactive slime. I tried jumping over it and 
 ended up inside; nothing wrong with that, except for the minor setback that I didn't die once inside, 
 moved around and still did not die and I couldn't get out (jump wasn't working while inside the 
 green goo and there was no way to climb out) .
  - also there is no uninstall shortcut in Start/Programs. No biggie, but it would have been more 
 convenient - considering you will uninstall it shortly after starting it.
  
  Don't buy it, it's not worth it. Even the Gamespot reviewers gave it a 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Once in a while a certain game comes out that is awsomely bad. Sure there are loads of midiocre 
 or disapointing titles but I'm talking about those game that make you want to throw your mouse 
 out the window. If I started my review like this, what do you think DIRT is like... I had amnesia 
 one day
  
  In Dirt you play as a girl named.... Dirt (cool name, parents must have been drunk) who one day finds 
 her planet under alien siege (original) and a loss of memory. What's left for her to do? Pick up 
 some guns and start blowing stuff up of course. That leads to an incohierent, uninteresting and 
 unbarble story that is amusing to see just how B-movie it is.
  The overall style that the game should have had ( if it tried to have any at all) is absoloutly 
 oblitarated by painfully bad and awkward graphichs and a sound design that's less conplex than 
 an 8-bit game. So, you have yourself a game (more or less) that's more imerssive than a seventh 
 grade math lesson.
  
  I'm shooting... I guess
  
  The core idea behind Dirt is too shoot things with weapons (wooooow) and ocassionaly use... Powers? Yes 
 for no reason Dirt (the girl) has super powers like telekinessess, fire-power (?) , a spining kind 
 of small blade and super-vision....
  But how do these elements work? Well the shooting first.
  To describe how acurate the shooting 
 in Dirt is, in a few words is like this; atempting to shoot a fly from 2 miles away with a gatling 
 gun, simply said imposible. Why? Well because the reticle is one pixel big and the game moves really 
 wierd, like when your character is moving it's like the room is falling beheind or something. Saiyng 
 that the action in Dirt is a chore would be an understatement and a big one two, like I said before... 
 impossible.
  But hey maybe the powers can help! Well can they? No because except the flyng blade wich is probablly 
 the most efective weapon in the game, nothing else is usefull, and I mean nothing.
  
  Anything else....
  
  Exept the unplayable action there is a small puzzle element wich prooves 
 a nother deal-breaker, none working physischs. In these sections you have to move some boxes using 
 your psychick powers but it, like the rest of the game doesn't work.
  Now you may say, Is there something good about Dirt, well the only bell or wisthlle here is a weapons 
 shop that alows you to upgrade your tools of frustrat..., distruction. Needless to say that this 
 has allready been done to the death and a hundred times better, but concidering it's the only alement 
 that somewhat works it has to be aknooleged.
  
  Dirt yes pure DIRT
  
  If you play more than an hour of this God-awfull abomination, well bravo. The name of the game 
 suits it Dirt ; at the start of my review I said that are games that make you want to do crazy 
 stuff and change the way you look at bad games, well with out a doubt Dirt is something that must 
 not be played. Enough said thow.... Oh and did I mension that it doesn't feature muliplayer, hmmm 
 disapointing don't you think... I'm going crazy....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skat137321
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  First impression of the game: 3rd person shooter made with the source engine, this is great, can't 
 wait to play it. With everything maxxed out on a P4 3.0GHz, 1Gb ram and a 7600GT the game looks 
 pretty ok. When I first started the game I was impressed cause you can choose you have 3 playing 
 styles to choose from: stealth, sharpshooter and damade dealer (don't remember the name but that's 
 the main ideea) . The style choosing option left me another good impresion. After I've started playing 
 the game all the excitement was wiped out by the chaotic control of the character and the lame 
 combination of firepower with special power (telekinesis and other stuff like that) . After a half 
 of hour of gameplay i've stopped with a sad look on my face.... the game not even half of what i 
 expected it to be. Everything in the game dissapointed me begining with the way the main character 
 moves and talks and ending with the whole gameplay. I've kept the game installed just in case i 
 get very bored and i got nothing else to do. My suggestion is to change your mind very fast if 
 u ever thinked about buying the game or just getting it from somebody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkrocklocal
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 15, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  After playing this horrible game all I have to say is Its Winner! To make it to one hundred words: 
 one word, two words, three words, four, words, five words, six words, seven words, eight words, 
 nine words, ten words. a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z.... Ahhh not there yet. 
 Two cups flour, three cups sugar, i tbs of baking power, one tbs of vanilla, 18 pounds of chocalate 
 chips. not there stll. This is the song that never ends.. yes it goes on and on my friends... some 
 people starting singing and not knowing what it was and they continued singing it forever just 
 because. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  From the very first moment I got my hands on this game i had a strange feeling about it!! It was 
 like I knew what I was about to confront!!! The main menu tried to inspire me by some kind of background 
 trailer of the game and some (NOT SO) cool moves the character could do!!! then I started tutorial 
 and from the very first moment i knew what this game was like!!!
  
  A poor... no... a very very very poor imitation of the games like Max Payne or beyond good and evil!!!!!! 
 I also consider the fact that Max Payne and beyond good and evil are of 2 completely different 
 genres!!! but believe me when i say it is an imitation of these 2!
  The gameplay really sucks!! you have some special powers and some weapons plus grenades and a pair 
 of pistols that will never run out of ammo!!! (why does that remind me of Tome Raider!!!)
  the special powers are expected to be cool but in fact they are super lame!!!
  the marker which 
 u should use to shoot is not accurate! there were times when i aimed at the head of a person but 
 then the bullets were all going into his stomach!!!
  the story is just a boring classic! (government's secret experiments blow up the city and a savior 
 arises!!!!)
  graphics are just childish in this game!!! reminds me of 25 to life!!! maybe the same engine though!
 
  music and dialogs are as boring as a 1000 page science book can be!!!
  the characters talk to each other in a way that you always ponder to yourself:
  where is this 
 the note they are reading all this from (got it?)
  finally we should only say that this game is messed up enough that you can easily cast it into 
 your bargain bin as soon as you get it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  Well as I said in the Deck.. some problems plague this game.. first is the sound cutoffs from weapons 
 and powers used.. The graphical inconsistencies comprise of environment graphics cut down so that 
 the main character as well as enemies look out of place. Control problems consist of inaccuracy 
 of weapons as well as just feeling a bit off. This pretty much explains the gameplay which is a 
 3rd person game like Tomb Raider with just a run and gun type. Graphics were decent with the character 
 and enemies rendered properly .. but the textures of the walls and overall buildings looks pretty 
 much like Sin 1. The scaling is off is one way of putting it. Sound, well not spectacular the music 
 is actually quiet decent.. but the sound effects need work. Value? replayablility is just not there.. 
 true you can try different styles of play but you end up using those styles inconsistenly, and 
 it really doesn't effect the game whatsoever. The storyline is okay at best, along the lines of 
 Parasite Eve.. (playstation 1 game) ... same type with a little variation.. the voice acting is 
 just terrible and distracts from the game... In all fairness I think giving this game a 6.1 is 
 too much of a good score.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arathogorn
Rating: 1.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  DIRT is the worst game I've ever could think of , this year. Honestly, I didn't even play after 
 the second level, It's so boring and bugged that I believe no one will ever have a desire of playing 
 this game, only those who doesn't know how it is...
  
  The most disastrous thing in the game is the engine, It's the worst engine in this year, at least 
 I believe on it.
  
  There are some power stuff in the bottom of the hud, but that's only show off, if you use one of 
 those , the camera just bugs and don't let you see anything else, you could only see the place 
 it was targeted to...
  
  The 1st girl on the game, on the first level, try to push her, she's like a statue, no movements 
 or feelings when you just go walking on her...
  
  Try running into a wall, the arms of Dirt ( the main character ) will just go to the other side 
 of the wall, It's just amazing, you don't even have to use the old fashion cheat noclip ...
  
  Oh, also, if you roll your mouse , moving the camera, notice that some stuff will disappear, 
 such as the 1st girl's hair, that blonde will be just another face with boobs, I would like that 
 If the back of her head didn't disappear
  
  This is a game I don't recommend even for my enemys, Don't buy such games, it just encourages them 
 to make other games like that, I believe Alex Navarro said something like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  Dirt is a very poor game... it lack dinamics first of all, is filled with bugs and ... To be onest 
 i'm very angry with me for playing this game... the only things that are worth even thingking asbout 
 are the music that from time to time is nice, tha special powers that are interesting but not that 
 original. This game would be better off with at least 3 or 4 months of extra work.
  It dfoes not bring anything new and it features are not polished. The ai is faulty... and almost 
 all enemies are practicly waiting for you to come out. Ofcourse there are those enemies that don't 
 even see you if you stand next to tehm and shoot them. This game is onlyinteresting for 10 minus 
 or so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecler
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 9, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  This game is very bad. The gameplay is absolute nothing just shoot and jump you are girl who wakes 
 up in a cell and you start killing bugs borring little bugs and bigger bugs borring.
  You have some special abilities it's a good idea but it doesn't fit in the game 
  The graphics 
 sucks very much without antialising it looks very horrible.
  The sound is the most horrible thing in this game 
  no gameplay no graphics and the incredible 
 horrible sound makes this game NOT WORTH YOUR TIME
  i do not recomand in buying this game i mean it will really desapoint you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FyreHeart
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This is actually a decent game. The gameplay is solid, though the default control scheme seems 
 to assume the player has three hands. I was able to customize it to be quite friendly, though. 
 The major exception is the dodge move, which is almost useless. A jump evade is far more practical. 
 The special powers are a nice touch, though they can be a little tough to target. I usually have 
 to use them in Ghost mode.
  
  Graphics are the most glaring problems with this game. The character models are decent, though 
 the animations tend to be stiff. Several times object seem to fall through walls (half a bookshelf 
 sticking through a solid wall into the hall) . Probably funniest of these is when D1rt's hair jumped 
 off her head and floated a foot to her right, revealing a funny, if slightly disturbing, face on 
 the back of her skull!
  
  Sound is good, though nothing jumps out about it. The biggest sound problem is that D1rt's mysterious 
 helper is very hard to understand with his disguised voice.
  
  The story is rather derivative, and it could use a prologue to set the stage. References back to 
 the campout in Nevada when you find yourself in New York feel like a disconnect. Still, it does 
 the job.
  
  All in all, a decent game, but not mind blowing. If you're a fan of sci-fi shooters and you're 
 playing Halo for your 15th time, it's worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfx69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  DIRT - Origin of the Species, has been in development since 2003. Eager fans have waited while 
 release dates have been cancelled or pushed forward for the past 3 years. The wait is over, and 
 it's been worth the wait.
  
  The graphics are atmospheric and well done, and frame rates on average pcs are better than most 
 popular pc shooters released this year. The gameplay is unique, with different moves and weapons 
 to choose from that are powerful and satisfying. The whole game premise is unique as well, with 
 a disaffected punk chick fighting against a military industrial organization bent on their evil 
 goal. Cool!
  
  If you're tired of the usual 3rd person shooter and want something unique and fun, this one is 
 a must-have. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
