-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dirt
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/cmr07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Six distinct racing disciplines.
 enjoyable mix of arcade and simulation driving.
 gorgeous looking tracks and cars that deform and break apart very nicely.
 slick menu presentation.
 tons of offline races to play through.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Cars have something of a floaty feel to them.
 frame rate tanks hard during certain scenarios.
 multiplayer options are like a cruel joke.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.4, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 2,142 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Jun 19, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As a graphical showpiece, DiRT is an unbridled success. It also happens to be an entirely enjoyable 
 rally racer. 

  Fans of Codemasters' Colin McRae rally racing series are in for a surprise with the publisher's 
 newest title, DiRT. DiRT has more in common with Digital Illusions' Rallisport Challenge series 
 than the Colin McRae games of old, putting a greater emphasis on a variety of off-road racing disciplines, 
 as opposed to sticking hard and fast to traditional rally racing. That's not to say that rally 
 fans will be disappointed with the game. DiRT veers a good bit further into arcade territory than 
 earlier games in the series, but it is still a blast to drive, and absolutely stunning to look 
 at.  

          It doesn't look quite as astonishing in motion, but DiRT is still one superb looking racer 
     

  Let's just address that elephant in the room right off. There have been plenty of driving games 
 of late that have been visually impressive, but very few live up to the visual fidelity displayed 
 by DiRT. This game is a technical achievement in car design, track design, and damage modeling. 
 To begin with, the cars are beautifully rendered, highly detailed models that are as fantastic 
 to look at as they are to destroy. Damage modeling is one of the most impressive aspects of the 
 game; you can lose bumpers or doors, break glass, tear up the paintjob, and roll your ride into 
 a crushed, deformed mess. Tracks are equally beautiful and destructible. From the rain-slick tarmac 
 tracks of Japan and the dusty backroads of Italy to the muddy, gravelly countryside of the UK, 
 DiRT nails every environment wonderfully. The game also uses lighting to fantastic effect, not 
 just to emphasize how shiny and reflective the cars are, but to give each track an individual atmosphere. 
 Driving around desert mountains in the washed-out haze of late day is an amazing sight to behold, 
 for sure. And if you feel like tearing up these tracks, you can bust through fences, barriers, 
 bushes, and anything else not held to the ground with concrete. All the while, dirt, mud, or gravel 
 will kick up against and often stick to your car, making the game's namesake seem entirely appropriate. 

  As amazing as the game looks, all that detail comes at a bit of a price. Performance is not always 
 up to snuff, especially in races with multiple cars on the track. The frame rate is a little choppy 
 during single-car rallies, but once you get a group of other cars racing with you, the game practically 
 turns into stop-motion animation, especially if all the other cars happen to be bunched up with 
 you. This is more of a consistent issue on the 360 version, though the PC version is highly taxing 
 even on high-end hardware, so you're likely to run into some performance problems unless you're 
 running a top of the line machine. Longer-than-average load times also tend to rear their ugly 
 head (primarily in the 360 version) . Even still, the game never becomes unplayable because of the 
 crummy frame rate or lengthy loads, and at worst, these are merely annoyances.  

  The quality of the presentation doesn't begin and end with the in-game graphics either. Even the 
 menu system is immaculately built. It's hard to describe it, except to call it a bunch of floating 
 boxes with selectable options that zoom in and out as you select them. Even the loading screens 
 are cool because they display real-time statistics on your game, such as your favorite tracks or 
 vehicles, your average speed, and even your favorite driving surface. Menus are usually a forgotten 
 element of a game unless they're specifically bad, so the fact that DiRT's are notable for how 
 good they are says something.  

  Audio is not quite as immediately impressive as the visuals, but it is great all the same. Engine 
 noise is probably the best aspect because each car has a definitive and unique sound to it that 
 feels just right. Crashes and other racing effects are also excellently produced. The soundtrack 
 isn't licensed, but the instrumentals that play over the various menus and replays are quite solid. 
 The only damper on the category is your codriver, an obnoxious, bro-sounding dolt whose dialogue 
 sounds like it was written by a nonnative English speaker and whose only reference for the language 
 was reruns of  Saved By the Bell . Lines like "Smooth and steady; I'm Mr. Smooth, and you're Mr. 
 Steady," and "Yeah! We won the championship! I'm so  stoked !" are funny once, but then they're 
 annoying from there on out. At least he gives you some good info on the tracks before you race. 

          This ain't your daddy's rally racing game.     

  Once you've snapped out of the trance that DiRT's fantastic presentation tends to lull you into, 
 you might remember that this is a racing game and that you do actually have to play it. It's a 
 good thing it's a fun one. The game includes six different racing disciplines, which consist of 
 rally, rallycross, hillclimb, CORR, crossover, and rally raid varieties. If you don't know what 
 half of those are, don't fret. The game does a good job of easing you into the game's style of 
 racing, with both some rather simple early races, as well as an explanatory narration by extreme 
 sports maven and current Rally America champion Travis Pastrana.  

  Granted, even if you've never jumped into a CORR race in your life, DiRT isn't exactly a difficult 
 game to grasp. You're racing down a course by yourself, trying to get the best time possible, or 
 racing against other cars, buggies, or trucks on dirt and tarmac tracks. Most of the differences 
 in gameplay come from how the various vehicles handle. There is obviously a big difference between 
 driving a speedy Mitsubishi FTO and a massive racing big rig (yes, they actually have those) . But 
 even with all the differences among disciplines, the racing is always easy to pick up and play. 
 DiRT has a decidedly arcade-driving sensibility that makes all the vehicles relatively easy to 
 race with from the outset. Once you've gotten a feel for how all the different cars and tracks 
 feel, you can simply crank up the difficulty, which in turn makes your opponent racers much more 
 adept, and also leaves your car far more open to terminal damage. On the highest setting, all it 
 takes is one good front-end collision to send you packing.  

  As realistic as the damage incurrence can be, the rest of the game definitely maintains an arcade 
 mentality. Nearly all the vehicles have a decidedly floaty feel to them, one that seems to overcompensate 
 for nearly every minute turn of the analog stick (if you're playing the PC version, you will need 
 a dual analog controller of some fashion to play the game properly) . It's not unmanageable or anything, 
 but it's far from realistic. By the same token, the game's physics are often a bit silly, especially 
 in wrecks. That's not an insult by any means because the exaggerated physics lead to some absolutely 
 spectacular wrecks in many cases. But there are some eye-roll-worthy moments where you'll see a 
 car tilt from lying on its side all the way back upright for no good reason or drive sideways up 
 a cliff to land back on four wheels.  

  Floaty feel and wonky physics aside, DiRT is still a great deal of fun to play. Once you get a 
 feel for the controls and up the difficulty a bit, the racing can be intensely challenging, addictive, 
 and immersive. It's especially immersive if you happen to take in one of the game's two exceptionally 
 good cockpit camera views. There's a zoomed-in view and a view that's a bit further back. Both 
 views give you a great sense of being in the driver's seat, even going so far as to let you look 
 around inside the car via the right analog stick. Not enough racers do the cockpit camera that 
 well, and DiRT is worth lauding for doing it especially well.  

  As fun as the racing can be, it wouldn't be worth much if DiRT didn't offer up plenty of ways to 
 experience it. Fortunately, it does the job. Apart from being able to take part in single races 
 and events, as well as a series of championships, consisting of multiple races each, DiRT also 
 has a lengthy, involving career mode that has you working your way up a literal pyramid of events. 
 Winning races earns you points, which unlock new tiers of the career mode and cash, which you can 
 use to buy new vehicles or liveries for said vehicles. With more than 60 career events, nearly 
 50 vehicles to unlock, and more than 180 liveries to buy for those vehicles, that ought to keep 
 you busy.  

          Few games have ever displayed such dynamic damage modeling.     

  The one feature that DiRT skimps badly on is multiplayer support. There is multiplayer, but just 
 barely. Only two disciplines -- rally and hillclimb -- are available to play in multiplayer. But wait, 
 aren't those the two disciplines that don't have you competing directly against other cars? You 
 bet. Essentially, you're dumped into a lobby with potentially dozens of other players, and from 
 there, you vote on which track you want to play. The available list to vote on is always random, 
 and there's no option to pick a different car or even search for a lobby with specific cars/tracks 
 available. Once you're in a race, it's merely a time trial against all the other players. You can 
 see how you're doing in the real-time standings, but that's all. While the Colin McRae series has 
 never been known for great multiplayer support, the total lack of online racing in a game that 
 debuts several wheel-to-wheel racing types is a gigantic tease and really disappointing.  

  That said, the multiplayer support is really the only thing about DiRT you can call truly disappointing. 
 On every other front, DiRT delivers a racing experience that's a lot of fun to play and visuals 
 that are such a joy to watch that you can even bring yourself to forgive the shoddy frame rate. 
 All around, DiRT is a class act, and it belongs in any racing fan's library.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (92 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: salmanzk
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:31 am PT
Review:  The environments are lush, the lighting superb and the damage modeling incredible. DiRT is gorgeous. 
 And the spectacular visuals are matched by the most impressive user interface to ever bless a console. 
 Once the rush of the inspired visuals and eye-popping menus passes, you'll find a very solid rally 
 racer. Though it's not the best of the Colin McRae series, DiRT is perhaps the most accessible. 
 It's not perfect, but it's damned pretty -- and a whole lot of fun.
  
  Great rally racers find a way to mix sim aspects with an arcade spirit. The sport, by its nature, 
 features a lot of power sliding around narrow corners in rustic settings, creating a sense that 
 you're somehow defying the laws of physics. But that's true rally racing. DiRT does a great job 
 of offering both an arcade experience (for those who are faint of heart) and a hardcore challenge 
 (for those with balls of stone) . The default difficulty keeps the challenge fairly lax. Crank up 
 the difficulty setting and suddenly every fast turn becomes risky and any crash can prove fatal. 
 Few games offer two different sets of experiences, but DiRT does it better than most. So whether 
 you are just a casual racing fan or a Colin McRae nut, you can have fun racing across the beautiful 
 wilderness vistas of DiRT.
  
  The bulk of the single-player experience is in the career mode -- an epic pyramid of increasingly 
 difficult racing challenges. It consists of six different rally events: Rally, Crossover, Rallycross, 
 Rally Raid, CORR and Hill Climb. These are equally distributed throughout career, meaning that 
 those who love time-trial rally racing will find considerably fewer of these events than in previous 
 games. While that might be reason to complain, the multi-car races fit perfectly into the grittier 
 attitude of DiRT. The healthy variety of race types keeps the career mode interesting from the 
 bottom of the event pyramid up to the top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2009 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Dirt is a great game overall, its actually only parts of it that lack, but essentially those parts 
 are the most important ones.
  Even though its 2 years old game now, the graphics still hold their own and the car models, tracks 
 and scenery are amazing. The in-game menu is simple and properly done and the racing modes are 
 varied and fun.
  
  You can drive a standard rally mode, in which you race alone on the track and need to have better 
 time than your opponents, you can drive a hill climb, 1x1 dual track mode, Dakar style mode, against 
 more opponents on the track and standard rally mode, but with unique cars.
  
  When it comes to driving though is where the problem lies, although once you get the hang of it, 
 its pretty fun, its unrealistic and leaves a hole is your overall experience. The problem I'm talking 
 about is the floating feeling you have with the cars. Sort of as if you are driving on ice all 
 the time, or as the car floats over the ground and not go on it as it should.
  It can get frustrating sometimes at higher speeds as even the slightest turn can send your car 
 shaking left and right. So the cars and even the trucks you drive feel weightless and without grip 
 and its neither realistic, nor arcade, its just wrong.
  
  But even though thats not the best type to make the cars handle, its still pretty fun, since the 
 handling although unrealistic and shaky at times is still very easy and just dropping the throttle 
 a little works wonder to improve the car handling.
  
  Anyways the rest of the game as sound and number of tracks is really good, but I'm afraid neither 
 Dirt, nor any other rally game have come even close to matching Richard Burns Rally driving experience, 
 realism and fun.
  
  Even though Richard Burns Rally is quite old game now, its the still the best rally game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  Codemasters may be the first games developer to have found the formula which succesfully mixes 
 arcade racing with simulation ingredients, consequently releasin DiRT, a game you won't like to 
 miss.
  
  Starting the game. A ver helpful and beautifully-designed menu will drive you to everything you 
 would like to do. Six different racing types await you. Play in the amazing career mode, where 
 you can enjoy the real rally championship, earning money to purchase cars and parts, and move to 
 bigger challenges till you becom the champion of champions. The procedures and actions out of the 
 tracks bear resemblance to these of NFS Most Wanted. But inside, it is totally different, the Colin 
 McRae we are used to.
  
  You will find many amazingly-detailed and totally realistic tracks to play in, driving one of your 
 upgradeable, fabulous cars, which are enhanced from every previous rally racing game. But it is 
 too bad that DiRT seems to be problematic in one way: you may not feel the satisfaction of the 
 experience, the atmosphere of rally racing is a bit lost when you full-throttle. But anyway, Codemasters 
 have done a great job to the details of the car when it is almost totaled. They really break apart 
 very nicely niying much better than any previous game.
  
  What the game is completely missing is a great multiplayer mode. Well, the LAN mode has its fun, 
 but the online connection is lagging, preventing you from playing online. This is the only part 
 of the game which is stripped down to a fault. The graphics of the game are very-very good, though 
 the game will ask you to have a major video card and a respectable processor. There are some minor 
 problems, such as low clipping and malfunction of the frame rate, but they are not too serious 
 to stand in your way.
  
  DiRT succesfully follows Codemaster's tradition to such rally games and will have you playing until 
 you become the champion of the champions in off road racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flippr_NF
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  I've played lots of racing games, and Dirt is the first one to give me so much pleasure and frustration 
 from track to track. After a rough start, I decided to take the easy way out and play Rookie level 
 for most of the tracks. On some tracks I win by a mile, but on others I cannot do better than 15th 
 place. What's up with that? Some tracks are amazingly easy, but others are so frustrating as to 
 completely ruin the game experience. Games should be fun, not frustrating.
  
  After almost 8 hours of driving time, I've been forced to look up a cheat code just to access the 
 last few tracks. I'll finish the game by playing all the events, but then it's off to be traded 
 in for something else. There's absolutely no replay value in it for me.
  
  Conclusion: Could've been awesome if it was more consistent, but fails because of the wild range 
 of difficulty from track to track within the same difficulty setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemarsh
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  I really like the off-raod driving in this game it felt some what real to me. This game did a good 
 job with the physics of dirt, pavement, wet to dry driving conditions, I could really tell the 
 difference in each type of track. I like the fact that you can damage your car to the point of 
 parts falling off, and to much damage you were out of the race (there were a few trees that i hit 
 at 80 mph that stop the race for me) . I also like the multiple camera angles, these were great 
 when you had an amazing car wreak and you want to view it in slow motion and from the point of 
 view of a movie, very cool. My negatives on the game were that I was not free to use any car any 
 where, meaning that the track had a preselected list of cars you could use. Which made it free 
 more like an arcade game instead of a career mode game. I think the game would open up more if 
 I could take a semi down a Japanese wet track. Overall I think it is a good game and worth owning. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  Those aren't too good days for the racing genre. While we get some great racing simulators from 
 the masters at SimBin, EA ,after the awesome Need for Speed Porche Unleashed, seved us a couple 
 of cheap & extreamly arcadish tank simulators (okay, the Undergrounds were good, but Carbon was 
 simply crap) . True, they gave us a good ProStreet, but they couldn't do it as good as they did 
 with Porche. The FlatOut series, Burnout series & Crashday delected us with some grade A destruction 
 derbies & insane street racing. So we needed some high quality offroad racing, ain't I right? Who 
 doesn't want to take out a 4X4 Toyota & get it on top of a hill, trough the dirt roads? So Codemasters 
 gave us the next killer game in the Colin McRae series, first named Colin McRae DiRT, then after 
 his death (may he rest in peace) the name was simply reduced to DiRT. Let's find out about the 
 last game in the legendary racing series...
  
  ---Gameplay:8/10 ---
  
  As I said before, DiRT focuses on offroad racing, which means that half of the tracks are dirt 
 roads,& the other half narrow & dirty asphalt roads going on top of hills, trough forests or deserts, 
 or on some special circuit tracks. Now, I'd love to say more about the cars, but it isn't too much 
 to say. There are from simple rally cars (with special mentions for the Toyota & Subaru vehicles) 
 to buggy cars & even some huge trucks. Now you can change some parameters for these cars, the way 
 the parts will come along together, but you can't really change the parts theirselves, which is 
 not really cool. The only thing you can do for the exterior look of your car is to buy some sponsor 
 layouts for them... which only differ from stickers & colour, nothing more. Now about the races 
 themselves, we'll first talk about the career mode, which is obviously DiRT's top component. You 
 will see a huge pyramid built up from events. Now these events might have one, two or more races 
 in them. Thing is, you'll start at the base & you'll advance to the top of the pyramid. It might 
 look like a lot of racing to do but trust me, it's not. It won't take you more then 8-9 hours if 
 you are a good driver. Now there are several race dificulties... the easier ones will help you 
 out in some situations but you'll get less money out of the events you race on that difficulty. 
 You get the point... but don't worry, you can change the difficulty setting for every upcoming event 
 & the computer will even tell you when he considers your driving good enough to make the step on 
 the next level. Okay, now let's see what's with those events anyway. There's a variety in them, 
 so you won't get bored of a certain type of events. Now I'll devide them in two big cathegories: rally 
 & cross.
  
  ***RALLY***
  
  
  -Rally (the classic rally) is a sprint track with a lot of turns which takes place mainly on a 
 dirt road. You will be alone on the track & only compete against your opponents by the total race 
 time. You'll see your race time compared the the opponents' ones when you pass trough the checkpoints, 
 but the only one that matters is the last one, the rest being just orientative. You'll also have 
 your co-pilot along you, & he will guide you on the track.
  
  -Rally Raid takes place on a rally track, but on both dirt & tarmac, & you'll race against your 
 opponents directly on the track, so to win you'll just have to stay ahead of them. Quite simple.
 
  
  -Rally Cross is the combination of rally & cross. It takes place on a mixed rally circuit on multiple 
 laps, with the pilots racing together on the track, so the objective is the same as in Rally Raid. 
 Unfortunatelly, here you won't have the co-pilot to guide you trough the track.
  
  -Hill Climb is basically a classic Rally race, the rules & objectives being the same, with the 
 only difference that in here you'll have mixed surfaces & one way: up. You'll have your co-pilot 
 with you, which is of great help, because a wrong turn can make you end up falling down the hill. 
 And you seriously don't want that to happen, trust me!
  
  ***CROSS***
  
  -Carr races take place on special circuits during multiple laps, & the players start all together 
 in a straight line. You don't have the co-pilot but you won't need him here. These are possibly 
 the most boring races because they're so much like like all other races in most racing games.
 
  
  -Crossover are unique & very interesting races, by far my favorite type in DiRT. It's a head to 
 head challenge against one opponent, & you'll race on two different tracks that will start as parallel 
 & at some point they'll intersect (don't worry, one on top & the other one under it) . When you 
 finish your track you'll get on the opponent's track & he'll do the same with your first track. 
 Whoever finishes both tracks first wins the race, as simple as that.
  
  -Rally Cross, as I mentioned earlier, are the mix between the rally & cross race types. I told 
 you before about it, so I won't repeat myself.
  
  Okay, now that you know about the cars & the races I'd like to tell you about the co-pilot's instructions, 
 because they're really important & are imperative on the higher difficulties. He will tell you 
 the distance till the next turn (60 for 60 metres, 200 for 200 metres) & the degree of the turn 
 (6 means only a slight turn, while 1 is an 180 degree turn) , along with the direction of the turn 
 (left or right, geez) . Yeah, you'll have the minimap on every race, but the co-pilot may prove more 
 helpful than that.
  Alrighty, now let's touch on the final aspect of the gameplay, car control & damage. DiRT is a 
 cute mix between arcade & race sim, so the controls are pretty much a mix between those too. The 
 cars respond realistically to your controls, whatever you'll use as a controller (keyboard, joystick, 
 steering wheel) . Not as realistically as in the Race & GTR series or in Richard Burns Rally, but 
 cool enough. They will take the turns according to the surface they're racing on (don't even try 
 I sudden turn at high speed on a dirt road, cause you'll most certainly regret it) . Now the damage 
 is made depending on the speed & force of impact, & wil technically affect the vehicle's performance 
 accordingly. Sometimes is really annoying when you slightly bumb into a small, thin pole & both 
 your front wheels will fall off, but you'll get used to that after a while. There are more components 
 of the car which take damage, & will affect it in their own way. If you'll damage the exterior 
 or the cooling system you won't feel a big change too soon, highly damaging the engine, driveshaft, 
 suspensions or wheels may get you to a lost race. Between two races you'll be given the chance 
 to clean & repair the vehicle. You'll get an hour, & considering that each component's repair takes 
 a different time, based upon the degree of damage & the component itself, you'll be the one who'll 
 distribute the time & will decide which components should be in mint condition for the following 
 race.
  
  ---Graphics:10/10 ---
  
  The graphics are certainly one of DiRT's strongest aspects. They're simply awesome. You'll have 
 your share of breathtaking views from all over the world: Australia, Italy, Great Britain, Germany, 
 France, USA, Japan & others too. High-res, extreme quality textures for both the tracks & the cars 
 make a visual masterpiece out of DiRT, something never seen before it. Not only that everythings 
 looks absolutely fantastic, but it also gets more fantastic during the races, if you know what 
 I mean. The dirt on the tracks will get on your car, which looks dirty very cool &... realistic 
 shall I say. Also when you'll crash you'll have to say some of your paint goodbye, plus that the 
 dents look really really awesome... especially if they're on your opponents...:) . But because there 
 always is a high price to pay for graphical masterpieces like this one, the system requirements 
 are quite outradgeous if played on maximum settings. Of course, low will work even on the weaker 
 computers, but even the high end computers will experience huge frame rate drops on maximum settings, 
 & yeah, I'm talking about 2 or three frames per second, whcih is definitely not cool at all.
  
  ---Sound:9/10 ---
  
  The sound of DiRT is good, but it ain't awesome at all. I mean the 
 sound effects, like the car engines, bumps, crashes sound really cool & realistic, but nothing 
 more. The voice acting is really nice & the co-pilot's tone really makes you feel in the middle 
 of a rally. Unfortunatelly, the music is not good at all. As hard as I try to remember I can't 
 recall it being cool or contributing to the atmosphere... it was rather annoying.
  
  ---Multiplayer:6/10 ---
  
  Multiplayer is unfortunatelly DiRT's biggest problem. You can't race 
 directly against other human opponents, the only options being Rally & Hill Climb, played trough 
 ghosts, that is only by the race times. It's such a pity, what a great multiplayer this game could 
 have had...
  
  ---Overall:9/10 ---
  
  With a great singleplayer component, awesome graphics, a good variety of atmospheric races, the 
 only apparently big problems of the game are the very high system requirements & the way multiplayer 
 has been implemented. But if you have a great computer & will play in singleplayer, DiRT will easily 
 be one of the best racing games you've ever experienced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeMoody
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Great game, the best in the Colin Mcrae series. D. I. R. T. and NFS Most Wanted are my two best Driving 
 games. A little too much setup stuff tho, there are things to setup that I know nothing about. 
 But I'm not complaining cause the game drives great, I use a Logitech MoMo force Feed Back wheel 
 and it does real good in this game. This could be a collectors item after Colin Mcrae's death. 
 So better get a copy and hang on to it. I've driven Nascar for years and have a just like new copy 
 of (Sierra) Nascar Racing 2003 Season. Man I wish someone would redo that game and bring it up 
 to 2008. And I don't mean that suck Butt EA Nascar junk. Anyway the graphics in Dirt are Great, 
 I run an XFX 8800GTS and can run thing on high and the maps look just right. I have completed the 
 game 3 times and am going for the fourth right now. I never have played online and have never saw 
 anybody on the servers. But I like it best playing Single Player anyway. Thanks to Codemaster for 
 putting in the long hours to make us such a good game. I will be able to play many hours with this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubba_83835
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 16, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  The graphics seem to be very good. Playing the demo is what made me decide to buy the game. Wow, 
 what a waste of money.....
  This has to be worse than muscle car 3, the cars seem to pivot at the center point, there is no 
 real physics behind this game, just a very poor attempt to create one..... I will never buy another 
 game from this company, maybe, but only if they pay me.... Because this was just a huge loss. As 
 far as im concerned the game and book will go in the trash so I can have an extra holder for cd's 
 or dvd's..... So im confused, how did this game get a rating from some people of 9? My guess is 
 they only played the limited version "demo" and ran to gamespot and rated the game.... Ouch. Please 
 dont do that again, I read a few of those highly rated reviews and bought the game, thanks lame 
 o. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Colin McRae: DiRT is one of those games which is all Bling-Bling and no Bling Bang ! what i mean 
 here's that this game is all show and no Go... the Game looks awesome with all the cool graphics 
 and Damage but its totally unplayable... some may feel that DiRT is a Joke on Rally racing. first 
 of all, this game needs one hell of a specification with the latest graphics card to run, and even 
 if u manage to have the card its a nightmare to play it. i agree that the game requires reality... but 
 this is insane ! some stages need hell lot of tries to complete and with cars driving like Motor 
 Boates, its a total frustration and Chaos on mud. after playing Colin McRae 2005 i was expecting 
 something which has more control and maneuverability....
  
  The game's pretty impressive with its immense detail and graphics. The Car's Physics and damage 
 are totally awesome. the gameplay is Good, with Career offering different types of machines to compete. my 
 favorite's definitely the 'Big Rig' ... the truck is awesome ! I only wish that this game would 
 have been a more driver friendly....
  
  Overall, DiRT is a Good game, but only for those who can take Frustration by Force... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  When looking at this title, it's hard not to reflect on the tragic news of Colin McRae and his 
 son's death in a helicopter accident. Well-known in the world of rallying and also to the gaming 
 community for the game franchise, the deaths were shocking and untimely. Let this part of the cyber-space 
 be devoted in memory of the lives that were lost.
  
  Colin McRae: DiRT, is a cross-platform rally game, available on the PS3, Xbox 360 and the PC. The 
 PC version, obviously, has the benefit of greater resolutions if you have a capable machine. While 
 i've heard of problems in running this game or bad performance for the system specifications, i 
 fortunately had little problem on this game for my PC (Q6600, 8800GTX, factory settings) . Although 
 the game would probably be best played on consoles, the price difference in versions would probably 
 have people getting the PC version for those who have capable PCs and PS3/360. Ironically, I would 
 highly recommend the Xbox 360 joypad (via USB) to play this game because it works so well right 
 of the bat without having to configure anything at all.
  
  There is a career mode, championship mode, Lan and online multiplayer. The career mode is where 
 i spent most of my time in the game. It is stuctured as a pyramid, split up in tiers which act 
 as ladders as you race and compete for points. The aim is to reach the very top. Your winnings 
 can be used to buy vehicles and getting 'liveries' of the vehicles you own (different skins, colours 
 ect) . The amount you earn is dependent on what difficulty you select before the challenge - the 
 harder, the more you win. It works well in this set-up as it encourages progression through the 
 tiers while catering for those who find the game difficult or easy.
  
  The gameplay is totally reliant on the 'driving experience' rather than having artificial dynamics 
 such as boost, drift, opponent take-outs (looks towards Burnout) and so everything seems to be 
 down-to-earth. This is not such a bad thing actually, because this 'driving experience' is something 
 this game excels at really well. A standout 'feature' of this game is the sheer variety of vehicles 
 in terms of shape, size, weight, handling - it ensures that the challenges you encounter as you 
 progress up the tiers rarely feels repetitive or too much the same. Why i use the word 'experience' 
 is because this game is just that - it comes down to how well the courses are put together with 
 appropriate settings, backdrop and terrain. You could be racing with a light buggy on dirt terrain, 
 turning the corners into a mini-drift challenge - Or you could be driving a monster of a vehicle 
 boasting over 1000 BHP up mountains which require precise braking and steering for that perfect 
 racing line. Other more 'normal' vehicles, like the Peugeot 307 handles brilliantly and in a way 
 that encourages you to push yourself further for the corners. One essential thing that i think 
 racing games must have is that believable sense of control from player to vehicle in-game. DiRT 
 has nailed this to the ground while still maintaining a very good sense of challenge and uncertainty 
 from the terrain/weather. The game also let's you practice the course before races, customising 
 your vehicle and it really does change things. Softening up suspension for bumpy terrains will 
 help your sense of control but will only be needed for those who are trying to beat professional 
 difficulty of trying to beat the quoted 'world record' time.
  
  The visuals are some of the most satisfying of the racing genre out so far. Terrains vary from 
 huge mountains which takes more than 5 minutes to scale, small racing courses on asphalt with minute 
 lap times as well as featuring more exotic locations such as dense forests, bumpy desert/mountain 
 terrains, japanese streets and even some 'good old Blighty grey' locations. Not only are the courses 
 well crafted, but the visual effects layered on top gives this game that edge over older racing 
 games - bloom will light up desert roads as the sun's rays blazes down on you, dense forests will 
 give you that flickering sensation as you race through the light and shadows between the tree branches. 
 The cars themselves are well-modelled and all can be damaged during the races which leads to a 
 further gameplay dynamic in which you really must try to avoid crashing. Damage your car too much 
 and you may not be able to repair it to a sufficient level to race well in a later on in the same 
 challenge. Cars can crumple, doors can fly off, windows shatter, the chassis may lean to one side 
 (heavily affecting steering) , your gearbox may go kaput, wheels pop out and the engine can just 
 explode. Humorously, the damage can be very enjoyable to watch, the dropping-off-mountain-cliffs 
 could give a few laughs and the way physics are handled in collisions is satisfyingly 'real'. At 
 least the 'pain' won't be real as all you'll do is hit the restart button.
  
  To further my description of driving experience, the audio comes into play. The moment you start 
 up the game, if you have a decent sound system, the bass of the music will immediately catch anyone's 
 attention - that alone will hype anyone to go for a drive. Music is not played during races but 
 the engine/exhaust noises are authentically grinding and popping. Once a race finishes, you can 
 see the replay of your race with music. You can pause, slow-down, fast-rewind/forward or change 
 camera angles to see the details, from driver-passenger to steering, to suspension heights and 
 to the wheel-ground contact. The way the music will 'dampen' when you slow the replay down is a 
 very nice touch :D . There are other small touches to the presentation which makes this game feel 
 really polished. The menu navigation is slick by using blur effects. The close-up shots as the 
 camera zooms at your vehicle in interesting angles just before a race highlights the details in 
 your vehicle as well as seeing yourself and your 'buddy' - well, he helps you by saying out what 
 to expect of the turns ahead whether it's "easy right", "long easy left" or "jumps" etc. So don't 
 go thinking thinking he's just a dead-weight :P .
  
  There isn't much bad to pick out of this game; the game did act strange on occasions (such as slowdown) 
 or just crashing, fortunately it wasn't often. This game is not for everyone, i have to say. If 
 it's cheap thrills, arcade experiences and immediate results - then this game isn't it. If it's 
 an audio-visual experience as you navigate beautiful terrains in a variety of vehicles you can 
 only dream of driving in real-life, or are just looking for that racing game which balances control, 
 braking, acceleration extremely well in many types of vehicles - then this is the one. The feel 
 of cruising through the high mountains or getting through a very dense forest alive (adrenaline!) 
 are good enough experiences for me to recommend this game to anyone who has capable PC systems 
 with large monitors and powerful sound systems. In terms of actual gameplay, it's very solid but 
 fails to innovate to those extreme highs. I say this, but honestly, what else can be done for a 
 rallying game? There really isn't much room to add except to just expand the game to a much greater 
 depth. Things like, a 'real' career mode in which you make your own character, go to driving school, 
 build your licence, climb the racing career ladder, enter real championships and actually meet, 
 talk opponents or even your own engineering team. Where have i heard of this type of thing? Oh 
 ye, Gran Turismo (but with more things) . The thing is, this game is not Gran Turismo. It doesn't 
 try to be GT. And do we really want to build up an avatar? Go though a story mode? Be in a 24-hour 
 race (in real life?) Or just say, "whatever, i just want to drive this new Stratos" and just go 
 racing in the mountains?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstcrew
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  The McRae series has never tried to be a true rally simulation, it's not as unrealistic as the 
 Sega rally series but still no sim. I remember a game called Rally championship (that's mobil 1 
 rally championship in the US) . Now that was a real sim and as a consequence it was HARD!
  
  Dirt follows the more unrealistic approach it's known for. The tracks look really cool but the 
 roads are actually wider then you would find on a real rally stage. Also, most stages are only 5 
 minutes long. In Rally championship the tracks were based upon real rally stages and were much 
 longer with the longest one clocking in at a frightening 40 minutes!
  
  Dirt tries to offer more diversity then the older McRae games by adding different race types with 
 different kind of vehicles. Personally I would have liked to see more straight rally tracks as 
 I'm not too fond of the buggies and I can't stand the trucks and jeeps. But the hill climb events 
 make up for that IMO. 
  
  All in all I had a realy good time playing Dirt. It has it's flaws but I can't think of a rally 
 game that is better. Well, maybe WRC but that game came out in '99 and it just too dated by now. 
 I really hope the people behind Dirt will pick up the challenge to make a real rally simulation 
 one day but until then we'll have to be content with what's on offer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_eeburgess
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I played this game when it first came out, and at the time my computer could not play the game 
 at a decent frame rate so I stopped playing it.
  I then built another computer and decided to play the game again, happily the game runs brilliant 
 now so I can review it properly.
  In regard to the controls, they are awkward to get used to because they are very twitchy & you 
 are constantly fighting with the controls to drive in a straight line. Once you do get used to 
 them though the game is amazingly playable. Of course different road cambers play a large part 
 in this initial twitchiness, different tracks may be very easy to drive on as they have no camber, 
 others are very hard. I use a logitech cordless rumble pad, which is extremeluy sensitive but works 
 really well when you get used to it. I have also played the game with my steering wheel, but personally 
 prefer the pad. Either way the game plays right with both controls.
  The graphics are very well done, when watching the replays sometimes the graphics look very realistic. 
 Sadly up close the textures are slightly blocky, but its not a real problem. Overall the graphics 
 are excellent.
  The sound is spot on too, the engine/gearbox/turbo all sound great and the ambient sound too. You 
 can hear little stones hitting the underside of the car, all of which is standard requirements 
 for games these days, but still on this game they are very well done.
  Some reviews complain of the american voice overs, this did not bother me, in fact I prefer him 
 as my co pilot than nicky grist.
  Other complaints people have made are that this is not a true rally game as the other mcrae games 
 have been. I enjoy the races that are in this game, I like the corrs racing especially. Plus the 
 majority of the game is rallying, and if you want to you can just do the rally series if you want. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Storyline: N/A - Dirty Rally Racing. No Story.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 9.5 - Dirty and filthy have never looked so good. Graphics are fantastic and 
 extremely realistic for racing standards. Sometimes a bit too much bloom or glare.
  
  Sound: 9 - Sound quality is great and has realisitic value. Rich quality in the car sounds and 
 impacts.
  
  Environment/Maps: 8 - Maps are at times a little rigid with the sharp turns, but most of the maps 
 have great quality in the which adds to the fun factor.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 7 - Requires an uncanny amount of PC horsepower, unless you have one top 
 notch system it may be hard to run. Otherwise, Best in series as far as engine by Codemasters, 
 may not be TOCA but it beats it out anyways in my book. Tends to go nuts with the frame rates randomly, 
 even in the menu.
  
  Interface: 9 - Cars have a floaty feeling to them. I didn't expect to have this much fun with dirt 
 rally racing or off-road, lets just say I was wrong with my expectations. This game is great.
 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8.5 - Dirt and Filth have never looked so good. I started playing with low expectations 
 and this game proved itself worthy. I was expecting this to be worse that the TOCA series, but 
 I thought it was actually better. Dirt and Off-road rally racing turned out to be quite alot of 
 fun. The handling of every car did seem to be a bit floaty but I only had problems on a few tracks 
 with it. Occassionally I did get annoyed with a particular track or two, specifically the 2nd of 
 Tier 1, so early in the game for one of this challange. Game requires and unusual amount of PC 
 horsepower, but if you have it the game lots of fun and certainly worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  Gorgeous graphics and slick presentation; detailed car tuning options; great crashes; newbie-friendly. 
 A big factor in this game's playability comes from its five difficulty levels. A number of real-world 
 tracks such as the Chula Vista raceway in California, Croft Circuit in North Yorkshire, England, 
 and even all 20 kilometers of Pikes Peak Hill Climb. Playing in one of the interior views really 
 makes you feel like you're bouncing around in the car and hanging on for dear life. 
  
  No real multiplayer; demanding system requirements; career mode is a bit short; inconsistent frame 
 rates and high end PC power is needed for the best features to turn. It's annoying to watch the 
 Xbox 360 version run smoother when we know our PCs have so much more raw horsepower.
  
  10 - 1 - 1 - 1 =7
  1- Driving handling drives us crazy 2 control.
  1- Lousy multiplayer mode.
 
  1- More Power, More Power needed on PC's Horsepower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raza1987
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Dirt is a very good game indeed but it lacks performance. Or in other words this game is too heavy 
 for non dual core systems P4 is not working in this game. I love this game like gameplay but under 
 20fps it is not playable. I played it on
  
  OS=XP SP2
  CPU=P4 HT 3.0
  RAM=2GB
  GRAPHICS CARD=ASUS EN8600GT
  
  I know that my graphics card and ram are enough for this game 
 but due to processor i got only 18 to 25 fps on medium settings but my cousin played this game 
 on
  
  OS=XP SP2
  CPU=CORE DUO E2160 RAM=1GB
  GRAPHICS CARD=XFX 8600GT XXX
  
  but he played game on high settings with no lackingOur systems are almost equal but his dual core 
 really gave him advantage. This thing makes me sick.
  If this game did not lacked peformance issues i would give it 9 or may be 9.5 rating. But the guys 
 who have core 2 duo or core duo should experience this game truly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinpu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  There are a lot of racing games, and many of them deal with the rallies, but among them DIRT stand 
 out for its level of realism and its awesome graphics. Is harder to drive in DIRT than in the other 
 games, but is more satisfying when you complete a great race. Like in all racing games you can 
 play a single race, a multiplayer race, or start a career. The career is long enough, letting you 
 race in all kind of circuits, and with every different vehicle (all kind of rally cars, jeeps, 
 trucks, and buggies) . You will enjoy a lot the multiplayer part of DIRT; you will gain points with 
 each race that will place you in a world racers list, always being able to reach the first positions 
 and to beat the faster time in all circuits. Among the annoying things, the worst is the menus, 
 a little bit bothersome, and with high VGA requirements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myork07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I tried using a game pad to play this and my ride was all over the place or stuck spinning dough-nuts. 
 The only way I can get any control is by using a steering wheel and peddle set-up, it really adds 
 finesse to the controls and gives a kind of feel of the road. Many users find this way more difficult 
 however. You have to be the judge, but I think a wheel adds realism and advantage to the game. 
 Once you figure out how to keep your ride on the road you can make it through the first couple 
 of tiers in your career or first couple of challenges. But then youd better know a little about 
 how to set up a rally cars (tuning points) on the game to be able to get the most out of your ride, 
 or you'll be left behind quick. The help option will give an idea as to which is the proper setup. 
 you have to factor in the road surface and type of course your your going to be racing on. Figuring 
 all that out is the hardest part of the game it's like the whole stratagy behind it really, but 
 isn't that real racing? It's a hard game, fun, but winnable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onuruca
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  the latest Colin Mcrae game has became a little bit of a dissappointment to me because i didn't 
 have fun while driving trucks, weird cars ext. i was just dreaming to drive rally cars. and the 
 second thing that made me dissapoint was there wasn't a rally carreer like there was in previous 
 game. also the career was a bit short and they could have made more tracks to race. Also the previous 
 CMR title's tracks was more creative but it wasn't at DiRT.
  
  The gameplay is fun, the diffuculity is just right, game menu is very creative and of course the 
 graphics are very succesful espicaly the damage modeling. About multiplayer i don't even want to 
 start it's really a cruel joke.
  Also the frame rate you get is not very stable. If you get 40 fps at a track the next one could 
 give you 20 fps and of course it's not a good thing.
  
  Instead of driving trucks if they would just make rally cars and put a rally career my score for 
 this game would be 8.5 but it's 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badger6724
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  The driving in this game on the highest setting can be difficult. But if are skilled enough it 
 is a lot of fun. The graphic are great if a little over the top. I have a very high end system 
 and I can't play with all the settings maxed. That was a little disappointing. Car set up seams 
 to be a little over done too as I have found, except for a couple of settings, the rest is not 
 really necessary. I would not compare it to NFS (I own every single copy of NFS every made for 
 the computer) as NFS is more like a console game and Dirt is more like a computer sim. Don't get 
 me wrong. I love NFS but, except for the final races, it is just too easy. Dirt is great once you 
 get the rhythm going around the track. I prefer the true rally racing where you don't have some 
 idiot trying to pit you on the corners. Where luck has nothing to do with it and its all skill. 
 The co-drivers voice could be louder and more clear but there is the handy map to check if you 
 can't hear him. I just hate taking my eyes off the road. Dirt is a lot of fun if you have the skills 
 and the machine to do it justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob046
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Great game!
  I recently got the xbox 360 wireless controller for windows. Previously I never played racing games 
 on the PC due to lack of good gamepad support and I hate using a mouse and keyboard for racing. 
 However, with this new controller it is literally just plug and play. From the first time I started 
 Dirt the controller worked flawlessly just as it would on the 360 or PS3 console. Didn't even need 
 to touch a setting.
  
  As for the game itself, it is a great relief to see that this game was done so well on the PC.
 
  Having played the PS3 version, it is as good as that but even better because this game actually 
 has a ton of options to tweak the game even further by making use of all the features and settings 
 of todays graphics cards.
  
  With that and the 360 pc controller, for the first time maybe ever in my life I actually feel like 
 I am playing on a console, except the graphics (if you card is at least decent) can surpass that 
 of the consoles.
  What a great feeling!
  
  Great graphics, great physics, a great racing sim. And I am so glad this game is so well supported 
 on the PC given that it is so popular for the 360 and PS3 as well.
  I hope more games keep being supported on the PC and are given the attention they need, just like 
 this game. It can only benefit everybody. And of course kudos (for once) to microsoft for finally 
 making a controller that can play all these 360 titles perfectly on the PC with ease.
  On this day, my morale regarding PC gaming has been boosted and maybe we will see some more life 
 from PC games aside from the whole FPS niche.
  
  Had to rate this game a 9.5 and why not? Superior graphics (settings totally maxed out with my 
 8800GTX-KO and runs smooth as butter) and amazing physics.
  Haven't seen any notable glitches, loading times are even faster than on the PS3.
  And most importantly, 
 the game is just fun and addictive (and I do suggest the 360 controller for windows for the best 
 experience) .
  And FYI, if you have a sucky graphics card and/or don't like the game because you don't like using 
 the keyboard, then either don't play the game or upgrade to where you can fully enjoy the game. 
 But I am tired of people giving horrible ratings on games just because their own hardware isn't 
 good enough, they don't like playing on keyboards, or anything else that isn't the fault of the 
 game itself.
  Worse yet, some people have the hardware to get good performance but their pc's are all jacked 
 up with errors and cyberjunk. Again, not the games fault. Learn to optimize your PC.
  
  Anyhow, this is a next-gen game and just like with getting the 360 or PS3, you need the right hardware 
 to be able to enjoy it. Not everybody can or wants to get that hardware. That is just how things 
 are and always will be. If you are one of those people, just play one of the trillion other great 
 games out there that will play on your hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muhamadiqbals
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  i really like this game compare other games... compared to the other racing games i played, including 
 the old colin mcrae series, dirt offer better precision requirement in driving, especially if you 
 have MOMO Racing wheel, you feel the difference about handling in this game, the force detail i 
 can say it immensely varied... making it very realistic, the only bad thing about this game is 
 there is no weather challenge like rain, snow, storm etc... or even night driving, so we can see 
 another effects like volumetric lighting or bugs in the night squashing into windshield, this experience 
 might make gaming more exciting and closer to realism..
  
  graphics : cool for now, best graphics i ever played so far, better frame rate/performance though 
 after you patch them. no problem on our system
  
  game play : like i mention above... i like the variation of race, but sadly weather system doesn't 
 to varied like the old colin mcrae.
  The tracks difficulty varies and some involves tiny turns that can easily accomplishes if u use 
 precise steering wheel
  
  sound : nice sound, i can actually hear pebbles hitting car body, and broken bushes when u hit 
 them.. the sound of tire when you press different strength to pedal, it generates different sound 
 of sliding tires... niiiice
  
  control : awesome precision... now it support 6 manual shifts, G25 owner should love this game... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TunerSkyline92
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  Graphic, Driving, Vehicles, Tracks, everything are AWESOME! It was so fun to play. Better than 
 old series. This is best one! You can buy CORR Truck! CORR Truck is my most favorite! =D
  
  Graphic - EVERYTHING IS PERFECT! I didnt see any gitch! Everything was just perfect! The damage 
 and more are beautiful. LOT, LOT, LOT, LOT of better than old series! =D Buy it!
  
  Just so fun to play, you can find the record of highest jump, top speed, longest slide and more!! 
 BUY THIS GAME! I AM TELLING YOU! Buy this game! You will love it! Trust me! =)
  
  -AJR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c5kev
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Admittedly I've only messed with the demo, but it's a waste of time DL'ing even this if you use 
 a FFB wheel (I use a G25) because of the unrealistic car feel. Even when keeping the wheel straight 
 (on straight road) , the car floats from side to side in an unpredicable manner. Also forget about 
 using your shifter. Well, there is the linear up, up, down, down shifting, but no allowance for 
 an H-pattern trans. And after hitting something (and stopped) , downshifting seems to take a long 
 time to "work" (for a racing game) .
  
  Graphics are indeed very, very nice as well as the damage aspect, but it's a shame the car physics 
 are so poor. However, if one likes ping-ponging off cliff faces and smashing into trees and rocks 
 all night long, then this game is probably for you.
  
  I give this a 4 because the graphics are great, but this IS a racing game... so how about adding 
 some car "feel"? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creative
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  There are many things that make it a good game, but there are few small things that completely 
 cancel out that good vibe the moment you start to play it. 
  
  This is not just a rally game anymore; it's a huge mix of various events (although WRC is still 
 present here) . My guess that it was done to appeal to broader audience, unfortunately it means 
 that game had to give up all its "McRae" title and become "DiRT". 
  
  Game looks phenomenal and damage model is very fun and unique. You can't just enter the turn full 
 speed and hope to slide on the divider, all objects are destructible. Car damage is very well implemented 
 as well, but you can read about this in other reviews.
  
  Here comes the worst part  controls. PC game gives you a variety of ways to tweak it, problem 
 is that they forgot the most important one  steering sensitivity (I kid you not, it's not there) . 
 So no matter how hard you would try to adjust sensitivity (you have to use external software that 
 comes with your controller) ; you still will not get it right. How does it translate into a game 
 play? Slightest move with you joystick/wheel will cause your car to do 180 turn, which makes it 
 impossible to keep car straight in fast segments of track or just to try and make lane change. 
 Cars also have "arcady" feel to them, meaning there's almost no weight associated with them. I 
 read a review and person compared cars to hovercrafts and it's just what it feels like to drive 
 any car in DiRT. 
  
  After few hours of trying to tweak the controls of the game I just gave up. I tried to get used 
 to this super sensitive style of driving, but then I just said "I paid good money for it and why 
 should I suffer and waste my time, because devs did not include sensitivity adjustment?" I just 
 removed game and moved on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  dirt was a completely entertaining rally game. from the already perfect colin mcrae series this 
 one is the best. loved the amazing and stunning graphics, superb lighting, excellent controls of the 
 vehicles, great visuals, neatly done interface, addition of a new in-car cam, destructible terrain, range 
 of vehicles and rally modes, long game play, and most of all the exce; llent work done by codemasters 
 in bringing out so good graphics is commendable. loved it on the pc. they could have added in-depth 
 weather changes in the game with night rallies too or also the dakar series. would have been complete 
 then. i expect all of that and more in the next game of the series. enjoyable to just any driving 
 game freak..!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chandler_UK
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  DiRT is frankly fantastic, if you haven't tried this game yet, you really don't need to read any 
 more reviews just go out and get it. However the decision on whether to get the PC or console version 
 should be concluded right now.
  
  Unless you have a monster of a machine (I'm talking a Crysis ready wench) , a 360 wired pad or a 
 steering wheel go for the console version. The frame rates on my Nvidia8800GTS 640mb were quite 
 appalling when racing against multiple A. I opponents; furthermore when you set the graphics options 
 down to playable levels there really is negligible difference between the console versions and 
 the PC.
  
  As for gameplay, everything that was right in previous McRae outings has been rolled into one well 
 oiled machine. The numerous disciplines, the way each car feels slightly different, the optional 
 but thoroughly engaging engineering options great co-driving and attractive graphics make this 
 game the best hybrid off-road game to date.
  
  That's not to say it is perfect however. The way the career mode is setup feels a little disjointed 
 and switching from discipline to discipline is engaging but also frustrating on the higher difficulties 
 where you are forced to change the way you drive on the fly and a few moments of trial and error 
 ensue. Another annoying factor is that this game is only McRae in name. The name voice over is 
 done by Hill climber Travis Pastrada, and whilst this is obviously done to appeal to the North 
 American audience his overly enthusiastic voice grinds allot, however there is not an option to 
 silence him alone, seeing as the Co-driver element is linked to his sound options.
  The biggest annoyance in DiRT is the frame-rate. On the PC, as previously mentioned it stays steady 
 when competing in solo events e. g Rally and Hill Climb, however as soon as you play multiple opponents 
 the frame rate drops to almost unplayable levels with turns being taken to late or early to try 
 and compensate for the snails pace. This problem is alleviated on the console versions, with the 
 PS3 being the smoothest to date.
  
  All the annoyances however do not detract from the overly enjoyable experience that is Colin McRae 
 DiRT. This is the best rally game around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacnar
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I tried the demo for this game and got hooked. The graphics are very good. Seeing the damage on 
 the cars as you hit, clip, and/or bang into things is wild. The different type of races adds to 
 the game also. To go from Hill Climb races to buggy races and rally runs is a change from the standard 
 circle or point A to point B races in most games. Don't get me wrong, I am a BIG racing game fan. 
 It is just neat to have a variety in one game. As far as the specifics, the game play has different 
 difficulties that cater to beginners through pros. The game could make setting up a joystick or 
 game pad a little easier. All in all it is a good rally game for the casual racer to the die hard 
 racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrawberryWiz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  For quite some time I have been looking forward to getting this game, and I knew that unlike the 
 other Colin McRae games, this one was bound to bring a whole bunch of new features. I knew deep 
 down inside that this game wouldn't disappoint and man was I right! The variety of offroad races, 
 vehicles and events was top notch against the other 5 games in the Colin McRae series. The graphics 
 were totally outstanding, as it proved that even PC's can have next-gen graphics like the consoles. 
 I also liked how the gameplay wasn't really frustratingly hard like the other Colin McRae games 
 I've played before. Basically, if you loved offroad rally racing, DiRT is a must have! And if you 
 dare give this game a low rating, then there must be something wrong with you, because this is 
 a really impressive top-notch quality rally game, that has obviously had a lot of work put into 
 it, so you should give credit for that. It's pretty hard to make a rally game better than this 
 one. That's why I give it a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRIXM8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  Having played all the colin mc rae series from the very first, I looking forward to play this one 
 too. After the installation I began the career mode. I liked very much, at the begging, that this 
 game wasn't the same as the older colin mc rae games. Brings a variety of vehicles that you can 
 drive, a variety of different surfaces to race and of course, that super graphics! I' ve never 
 seen, in a driving game, graphics like that. Unfortunately, the simulation character that has the 
 colin mc rae serie, has gone. Dirt is more arcade than ever, is for those who want to play with 
 the keyboard and play just for fun, nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sturgeon1483
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps I'm not giving the game enough of a chance, but maybe a game's suggested specs are too 
 high when a 2.66 Ghz dual core, dual SLI machine with four gigs OCZ Platinum RAM won't run it in 
 anything other than slide show mode. In addition, the CPU is running at 6% when the game is on, 
 which suggests DiRT has some funky video issues.
  
  The menus are unlike any other game I've seen and I'm sure the graphics are truly impressive if 
 you own a three thousand dollar PC.
  
  The deal breaker, the reason for throwing this in the closet is the ridiculously sensitive steering. 
 Breathing on the keyboard to turn the car is enough to send it into a wild spin. There seems to 
 be a minimum amount of turn that is required regardless of how long or short the turning keys are 
 held. This makes for impossible attempts to actually go in a straight line after the first turn 
 has been made. Think ball bearings on an ice rink. 
  
  Overall, this is not the most enjoyable racing game I've played, but it has potential. Collin McRae 
 Rally 04 on the XBox was very well executed, so if you have an XBox, perhaps getting this game 
 on that platform would be a better decision. For now, steer clear of the PC version. Hehe, get 
 it? Steer clear...
  
  Yeah, like that's possible with this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  After a long time playing driving games, we are finally have this beautiful simulation of a true 
 legend in racing world... The geme worth buying wheel to make it even more real. In the sea of arcade 
 racing games, true driving/simulation gamers finally got their game. Great graphic... use max of 
 you card , good sound, shifting, car damage, camera... which is the best one yet, controls, drive 
 feeling and wide spectar of available cars and trucks. Allthought, game is realy hard to play for 
 beginers, which make this game ever more addictive. Finally, when you driving 150 mph and hit something 
 you end up smashing your car totaly . Car damage is the best one yet. This game is highly addictive 
 so i reccomend it for all true racing fans. Only thing for me to say is... dont drink and drive! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdfireTrilogy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  First off, I am reviewing this game from a PC gamers standpoint. You need a pretty good computer 
 to run this at max settings. My old radeon x1650pro AGP could barely run it above average. My new 
 8800 ultra runs it great. The graphics looks phenomenal and the destruction of the vehicles is 
 great.
  
  The game play is very solid, yes it plays more like and arcade than a true simulation but for what 
 it is its incredibly fun. The keyboard is my biggest concern, it is very hard to be precise with 
 it so harder racing difficulties are very tough as it is hard to be a perfectionist. I have heard 
 that the 360 controller works well when used on the PC but I have yet to try it myself.
  
  Good replay features and fun to watch your insane crashes or perfect race.
  
  The replayability 
 for the game is pretty good if you like this sort of racing game. I can go back and play many times 
 over because it is just plain fun.
  
  Online is pretty lame, there is no actual in game competition. Think of it more as a true rally, 
 your racing other people but it is all about finesse and clock times not bashing each other for 
 first place. Over all though it feels like a gimmick because there is no head to head or true races 
 with other. Over all the game is very fun and addicting, IF your computer can run it. I would suggest 
 factoring in the price of a 360 controller if you want to play online as finesse is required to 
 win and a keyboard just doesn't offer that. A great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt1980
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  THE former rally driving champion Colin McRae was killed and his five year-old son feared dead 
 in a helicopter crash yesterday afternoon. The aircraft came down in Jerviswood, Lanarkshire, half 
 a mile from the family's home and burst into flames just after 4pm. Jean-Eric Freudiger, McRae's 
 agent, said the 39-year-old driver had been piloting the helicopter himself. Also on board were 
 believed to be his son Johnny, another adult - said by locals to be a school friend of McRae - 
 and another child. McRae's wife Alison and their daughter Hollie, 9, were not on board, friends 
 said. Strathclyde police said in a statement: Four people were onboard the helicopter, adding The 
 bodies were found within the helicopter which is owned by Mr Colin McRae of Jerviswood House, Lanark. 
 It is believed he was onboard the helicopter. McRae became Britain's first World Rally champion 
 in 1995. He was one of the country's most successful sportsmen, achieving 25 wins in World Rally 
 events and 42 podium places. He was a flamboyant driver, inspiring one the world's best-selling 
 computer rally games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Sad news that Colin McRae recently died in a helicopter crash so the series must end with DIRT. 
 But what a way to end such an amazing series of games.
  
  DIRT is everything you could possible want in a driving game: great looks, responsive handling 
 and a massive choice of tracks and cars. I've already played the entire game TWICE and I'm playing 
 it again. I love it.
  
  The game is a bully to mid-range systems though. You must own a gaming leviathan to play this game 
 at it's best.
  
  Overall, it's the best rallly game ever made and recommended 100% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriKFM
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  If you have enough power in your PC, this game is going to look absolutely amazing, specially on 
 the cars which are fully detailed. View the replays of your just finished races it's really great.
 
  
  It requires a lot of requirements specially where in races when you're not alone (racing against 
 5-7 cars at the same time) . Here you could lag if you don't turn car level detail down.
  
  Racing experience it's really great, you have a lot of different car types to race with, since 
 World Rally Championship cars, to big trucks, buggys, well everything that competes offroad.
  
  Career mode is good, you win money and points to buy a lot of cars, liveries, and unlock more 
 championships.
  
  The Rally mode is very good, but personally I think there should be more countries and stages to 
 race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raptole
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Very good game! I liked it in the beginning! It is such a beautiful and it is awesome game! The DirectX10 
 is not very bad but it is something better than the DirectX 9! The game is with very easy levels 
 and you can play very easy the rocky games! It is not very hard to play that game! I like it and 
 if there is a new version of Colin McRae rally game I will play it with happiness and I will be 
 proud to play it! I am very interested in that game! A beautiful gameplay and all the reviews are 
 very good! The next game will be better than that but I think that this is vey good!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ-Vegeta
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  The game is not so bad , but it need some patches anyway I expected more from this game but it 
 disappointed me . I thing that the Need For Speed Pro Street will be a lot better than this game 
 , it's all flash nothing special , i am really not satisfied from this game , a can't believe that 
 you like it so much . Anyway the fans of the car-type (including me) games maybe like it but don't 
 think so . In the end i can say 2 things - the graphic is not so bad but the game play is pretty 
 low 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meawmnj
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  well i have the game the graphics are great but the steering system is so fuked up a i cant control 
 any car i tried to adjust the steering from the option panel but no use i really like this game 
 specially the graphics but i can't play it so if any one knows whats the best tuning for the steering 
 system so it would be close to the regular games as in NFS , TD plz tell me i dont wanna conceder 
 it as a waste of money , any way the game graphics are the best , iv never seen a cars game this 
 highly detailed , it would be fun if the steering is not that fast . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snofelj
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  The masters work in codified ways. Those who speak freely about finding a perfectly and completely 
 good explanation are just messing around, particularly since there's not much to explain. Under 
 the new name of DiRT (Direct Infusion of Refurbished Technology) hides an ambitious project, meant 
 to promptly answer the current competition found on consoles. The reason for which the PC users 
 who've waited the release of a new rally game (I deliberately avoid using the term simulation ) 
 as if it were their winning lottery ticket, are now left high and dry. Tailored after the idea 
 of more equals better , DiRT borrows from its neighbors (ToCA Race Driver 3, RalliSport Challenge 
 2, and MotorStorm) , some of the necessary elements to assemble a next-gen offer, even if the producers' 
 avouches regarding the novelty concept, caressed our left hemisphere for a whole year. The secret 
 of a strong alloy is found in its components and their percentage of inclusion. In the present 
 case, the components are normal for a game of its genre (a mix of arcade and simulation) , but far 
 from complying with the requests funded in 2000. Or, to explain the current attitude, far from 
 entirely pleasing me. Codemasters' new creation dishes out the tasks after a baselessly (?) successful 
 recipe: it realistically simulates the mechanics' visual aspect (the damage) and gives an intense 
 arcade tint to the actual driving mechanics and physics. With this aspect lodged into memory, we 
 are prepared to storm the career mode. The offer puts at our disposal as many as six motor disciplines 
 - Rally, RallyCross, Hillclimb, Crossover, CORR (Championship Off Road Racing) , and some Rally 
 Raid varieties - as well as a rich selection of vehicles: from World Rally Championship's unlicensed 
 4WD cars (we can easily find amongst the custom liveries, a 2006 Subaru Impreza, a Mitsubishi Lancer 
 IX, and a Peugeot 307 to satisfy our needs) , Dakar stars and 2WD exemplars, to skittish buggies 
 and trucks with low pitch. The advancement model complies with the pyramidal style, a climbing 
 that promotes multiple unlocks and in-game financial gains. The gameplay calmly flows, while on 
 the lowest difficulty level. That translates into an uncanny driving ease (and yet normal under 
 the circumstances) . The cars' behavior is well diversified, but despite the prior tuning (which, 
 between you and me, is a punctured feature) , both the acceleration and braking are very brutal. 
 Coupled with the scathing sensation of a car that's not well placed on the road, and the odd camera 
 movement while in chase view, they demand important adapting time from the finical player who's 
 willing to dope out , courtesy of a vicious lack of alternatives. The results are the anticipated 
 ones: the fast come-backs from often ditching, with intermediate times deficiencies easily reclaimed, 
 and hairpin turns taken without the natural and overflowing tendency to skid around them (even 
 when we succeed in pulling out a decent drift, thanks to the preset power ratio, available tuning 
 options, and our finesse and skill, there's rarely a proper feeling attach to it, and a good looking 
 depiction in real time and/or during replays) . By raising the difficulty level, we don't witness 
 any miracle for the hardcore players, only a reduction of the error backlog, and the harsh punishment 
 for loosing the control over our car, while speeding on dusty and usually narrow roads (or any 
 other tracks) . However, if you want to experience a feeling of masked authenticity, I urge you 
 to switch to cockpit view (the distant in-car angle is worth every penny, and it will definitely 
 remind you of Rally Championship 2000) . Ever since the obscene Colin McRae Rally 3 hit the shelves, 
 the task of driving from inside the car was much alleviated, an aspect that, to my gratification, 
 was also assumed by DiRT. From the decently animated car interior, the driving sensation is much 
 amplified, the turns can be approached with both fluidity and genuineness in car animation (of 
 course, by watching the replay, we shall shatter the prior sensation) , and the feeling we're there 
 is fueled accordingly.
  
  Since I reminded you of the replay system, I allow myself to ascertain that it bashfully gains 
 upon the model inaugurated more than seven years ago, by RC 2000. A notice for film addicts and 
 video editing passionates: launch the Fraps application and use the abilities of switching the 
 camera, rewind, and slow down the play rate, in order to assemble your own advertising trailer. 
 For whatever reason you find it fit. Hmm, I'm starting to wander way off right now. Let's come 
 back to our beloved black sheep. Pardon me, our piebald ones, since I'm about to debate the graphical 
 presentation, which raised enough controversies to date. But not before I announce with dolor in 
 my voice , that the multiplayer support is a major flout (the praises are reserved for the netcode) . 
 Two game modes (Rally and Hillclimb) , a smallish tiered lobby laden with up to a hundred players 
 (and their statistics) voting for the next stage, and the lack of some elementary options, such 
 as car choice and a search engine for specific rooms. And if you come to thing that I wanted to 
 have my car tuned up prior every race! Getting back to graphics, there are many things to be said, 
 and that's precisely why I'll try to stick to the essential. Leave aside the official screenshots. 
 Or, if you get lucky (like myself) and start with the proper races, we can take into consideration, 
 for about ten minutes, the fact that DiRT shows itself similar to a pre-rendered movie from the 
 yesterday games. I'm not deceiving you. At times, both cars and especially the tracks look sensational. 
 From the dirt which adders to the bodywork, and the few examples of an interactive environment 
 (destructible objects planted along the track, dashed rubber bales, bulwarks bended under pressure, 
 shrubs flattened by bumpers) , to everything what an exemplary car damage model means (impressive 
 as always, throughout the series) . Then, a bunch of incriminating images for the excessive use 
 of visual artifices slowly creeps in. And that's a shame. I count the small number of polygons 
 in close-up surface renderings, the eye-bleeding HDR lighting, and the disappointingly dull particle 
 system when used to simulate the trails of dust. Alas, even the lesser of things cost. Too much, 
 in my opinion, and in this case, the stolidity reaches an unsuspectedly high bench mark . The frame-rate 
 is a constant nuisance, fluctuating and taking serious drops whenever the accuracy imports the 
 most. Even top of the line systems are at pains, if one tries, as it would be normal, to crank 
 the details all the way up (ultra, in the current case) . A single official assertion, presented 
 in the newly launched patch's read-me, is worth a thousand other words: Ultra graphic settings 
 modified slightly to be usable with hardware of today . I rest my case! As a sound representation, 
 DiRT does, at times, bizarre things, to say the least and to replace the off-color word. No, it's 
 not the absence of Grist's voice that bothered me, but the lines worthy of the cheapest of B movies, 
 tied in the beginning of each stage, randomly mixed, and galling through the untiring rehearsal 
 of awkwardness. Other than that, there's nothing to indict. By changing the view, the sound modifies 
 its values, with emphasis on different progressive effects, while the explanatory narration fell 
 on the shoulders of Travis Pastrana (a renowned champion and gold medal winner in the X Games competitions) . 
 By admitting the staggering four-wheel battle on the console tracks, all this production effort 
 seems to be justified. But that fails to comfort the earliest upholders of a franchise that, as 
 far as I'm concerned, has started to walk on two lines from the moment the third installment has 
 seen the publishing light. One thing is more certain that the rest. The Colin McRae Rally series 
 is dead. Officially buried, and with all the proper bells and whistles involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felixk
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up on release day, because I was impressed by the demo. The graphics were amazing. 
 The damage model was superb. But after a few hours with the actual game I started realizing I can't 
 drive . I have a steering wheel and pedals, and I honestly can't finish a Race without inflicting 
 some sort of damage to my car. Even on an easy setting the car's handle like the back tires are 
 always on ice. I understand that this is the point of the game, but even when driving on paved 
 roads the cars still handle as if I'm driving on a sheet of ice.
  
  Other than the car's handling trouble the game is great. The replays are beautiful and definitely 
 worth watching. I'm not too happy with the replay options though. Sometimes I want a replay of 
 a certain part in the race (such as a spectacular crash) , but the only way to get to it is the 
 fast forward through the entire race. There is no ability to start replay at a certain time. Plus 
 when you are using the slow motion feature you must hold down the button and this doesn't allow 
 you switch camera angles while in slow motion.
  
  Overall this is a great game, I just wish the car's handled a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperlink60
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  This game is all dressed up for the prom without a date. The graphics are stunning, but who cares 
 if the handling is so bad you can't drive the vehicles. I started off using a Logitech controller, 
 but the response was terrible. I would have to anticipate the turns because there seemed to be 
 a delay. I switched to the keyboard and that seemed to work better, but I just don't like the feel 
 of the game. With all the great driving games out there you would think that they would have taken 
 some pointers from one of them. If this game handled correctly it wold be a nice game. The people 
 who gave this game a high rating must really like off-road racing because I wasn't impressed at 
 all. Next! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  I was all excited over this game, then I bought it.... First time I tried to start it up, I got 
 the blue screen of death. I was like ooh great. So I tried it again. finally, it started up. Now 
 I have a pretty good machine to run it on, yet the game was choppy as hell. So I turned down the 
 graphics to low, which is disappointing also. The game play is annoying, hard to control cars, 
 even using a gamepad. Everyone else that gave this game a good rating must have super computers 
 to run it smoothly. All in all I am really disappointed in this game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiljaden2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why I had so many expectations about this game. Maybe I still had hope that the Colin 
 Mcrae series would return to it's former glory seen in Colin Mcrae 2.0. Graphically stunning, yes, 
 but c'mon, the driving is pathetic, specially when you drive a rally car. It doesn't even feel 
 like your on the seat of a car. I know games from far back has 2000 who would woop Dirt at many 
 levels that, I feel, are sometimes more important than graphics. On top of that, the sound effects 
 are unbelieably terrible. Man, some of the cars present on the game sound more like my grandmother's 
 than anything else. It's just amazing like these things are not even noticed before that game is 
 sent out.
  
  Aside from this, I have to say the game as some credit due to the great variety of vehicles and 
 it's graphical presentation, but that alone is not enougth. Veteran players like me, surelly will 
 share my disapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millerlight89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This Games is full of many great features.
  
  Gameplay The game is full of races and events to race in. There are 4 different events set out 
 around 49 cars, trucks, big rigs, and others. There are around 50 different courses ranging from 
 dirt, gravel, mud, asphault, and a few others. Dirt will give you plenty t do and it will keep 
 you busy.
  
  Graphics Depending on your computer this game will not look the same to everyone. If you have a 
 high end gaming machine with the lastes graphics card you will be highly pleased. The enviroment 
 to the cards to the drivers themselves all look downright amazing.
  
  Sound The sound is done well in this game also. With the cars roaring engines to the voice of travis 
 this game deleviers a great experience.
  
  Replay value High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeroshift
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  I don't know about all of you, but this is the best racing game I've played in a while. Most of 
 the people who reviewed the game are complaining that the game is broken and that it uses Starforce. 
 Boo-hoo? I'm having no problem whatsoever with Starforce and I have the game running well on 1024x768 
 with overall high quality graphics with my Pentium D Dual-Core, 1GB of RAM, and a 8600 GT. Some 
 of the reviewers are bashing the game for some of the stupidest reasons mainly because their hardware 
 is too out-dated to play the game.
  
  As for the game itself, it's great! Sure it'll take a bit of time to get used to the handling but 
 once you get used to it, you'll have a great time playing. Although I admit there really isn't 
 much options as you would see in Project Gotham or Gran Turismo, but the game stands out on its 
 own as a solid rally racing game. You can have a great time playing offline for it adds in a good 
 amount of value.
  
  Graphics are great. Anyone can see the great visual achievement in-game and even in menu. The sound 
 is as good as the graphics with some quality VO from real rally racers, and great music and sound-effects.
 
  
  This is a fantastic racing game. Take it from someone who actually played the game and didn't complain 
 about system requirements or Starforce. The only big flaw requirement wise is the hefty hard drive 
 space of more than 10 GB. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  This is my first time when i'm playing a Colin Mcrae game &amp; well I WAS more than stunned after 
 5 races i have come to this conclusion .... that this is the best car raceing game auht there with 
 multiple types of cars &amp; races that will keep your adrenaline in your vine especially if you 
 play it with a steering wheel ogh thats such a feeling ! I think that you have heard from everywere 
 that game needs some super computer &amp; its true smetimes not evan my E6700 , 4 gb of ddr2 &amp; 
 2900 XT falls a bit behind with the FPS's ... anyway it looks gorgeous ! The control is kind of 
 real i mean its real but comparing it to other Collin MCrae games the impacts are more arcadeish 
 ! Any1one who likes speeds dirt &amp; speeds should try this game you will not be disappointed 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 12, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Colin Mcrae for years now since the very first one and more or less i have 
 enjoyed them, let's say COLIN 1 and 2 were the very best, Colin 3 and 4 weren't as good but acceptable, 
 Colin 2005 redeemed itself and gave us a great and enjoyable rally game (shame on Starforce though) ......
 
  
  fast-forward to 2007 and you get Colin Mcrae Dirt, and stupid me for thinking this is going to 
 be the best Colin Mcrae of them all, but no, i was utterly and totally disappointed.
  
  *Graphics* - Graphics are more or less better than Colin Mcrae 2005 but the developers though ooooohhh 
 BLURRR, let's add Blurrr and make things cool, well it's not, while it does hide some of the crap 
 in the graphics it is very annoying after a while, removing it is also annoying.
  
  game borders on the unplayable sometimes and this is on a Core2Duo E6600 with a 8800GTX 768mb and 
 2GB Ram, it is nice and smooth then suddenly framerates goes to hell, same happened with a friend 
 that owns an ATI card so it isnt a driver specific problem. not groundbreaking graphics but still 
 looks better than 2005.
  
  *Sound* - Sound is more or less the same as the old ones and at times all cars sound the same under 
 certain conditions, the co-driver you're going to shoot him in the face, trust me. horrible.
  
  *Gameplay* - It is Colin Mcrae and the same routine, they added a new race mode like offroading 
 etc which is good... but wait....... WTF IS THAT!!!
  the controls are absolutely the worst piece of s*** you will ever see in a game on a PC, i used 
 to play Colin with my keyboard without any problems and always won my races and enjoyed it, but 
 wtf is that?
  the car is like sliding on oil, turning around is almost FPS like rather than proper racing, are 
 we running on skateboards?!
  
  using a gamepad or something helped a bit but the controls are still garbage. whoever programmed 
 this needs to be dropped in a well filled with mud and dust.
  
  one last word, the menus look like AERO Vista and it suuuuckkkkkssss!!
  
  Conclusion?
  
 
  you have to choice to put it straight........
  
  1 - play older versions of COLIN MCRAE
  
  2 - get RICHARD BURNS RALLY, best rally game ever, no contest
  
  They've destroyed the 
 good things that made Colin Mcrae games great and to top it all the game contains STARFORCE. welcome 
 to hell.
  
  DONT BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reniergerber_old
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  It has a good layout, stunning graphics, and I will put it where it belongs, on the shelve, just 
 because of the car handling. Try handling a bar of soap on a ice rink. That is what the handling 
 of the vehicles are. Spoils the whole game. Trying for realistic handling is on thing, but being 
 unable to go in a straight line after you turn once, is just ridiculous. In the end it just spoiled 
 what could have been a amazing game. You can see the effort that went into the game. The menu's 
 alone are better than most games out there, and the graphics are quite amazing. But as they say, 
 this is just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 401225
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  DiRT is a good game in all sense its loos great, the gameplay is ok but its a little bit hard when 
 its your first time whit it, however the graphics are great, (too bad that my system cant handle 
 it very well. : (..) , the sound is very immersive the engine sounds very cool.
  
  Sometimes you can get frustrated cause the phisics of the game makes you loose control when you 
 hit another player, but after all this game is really cool even in the bad moments.
  
  i really hope this can help you to decide if play it or not..... XD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolution_DDM
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 23, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  DiRT: A game with a lot of ambition and character that is almost there, but not quite.
  
  Gameplay: 8 As fun as a racing game can get, but with a twist, you can smash your car up something 
 fierce, and it looks gorgeous. The cars drive a bit awkwardly, but you get used to it. Could have 
 put more into the customization aspect, but it's nothing to cry about.
  
  Graphics: 9 Gorgeous. These graphics are lovely, the way the dirt flies off the back of your tires. 
 My only complaint here is the steep requirements to power these beastly graphics.
  
  Sound: 7 No complaints, but no props either, very generic.
  
  Value: 8 Sure it's a fun racer, 
 but it doesn't pull me in as much as it could. The game needs more depth than it has. It might 
 keep you interested in the game for a while, but it only goes so far. I felt no random urges to 
 play this game when I had spare time to do so.
  
  Overall, a good game, but it's lacking depth. It pulls you in, but only for a second.
  
  DiRT: 
 8.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dtormala
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 21, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I tried installing the demo version of this game. I can install it and everything. But when I try 
 to load the game it just nothing comes up. But it shows that it's running under the programs so 
 I have to close it from there. So I assuming this computer can't handle this game. and this is 
 a $1000+ computers. Sucks : ( So I guess that I won't be able to try this game unless I get an xbox360 
 or a ps3. lol But for what I seen in the gameplay and reviews this game does look amazing and I 
 wish I could just try it somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarthvader
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying its because of games like Dirt, that the Driving genre is dying, and i'll 
 explain it.
  
  This game has pretty decent graphics, I liked them. Compared to previous Colin Mcrae games there 
 is nothing ground breaking in it. Compared to recent FPS it falls short a lot, both in details 
 and lightning/shadows. Look at Half Life Ep2, it has marvellous graphics, and plays perfectly on 
 a Athlon 64 3700, 7900GS and 1GB RAM. Now were Codemasters smoking crack when they made a DRIVING 
 game that requires a dual core CPU, 2GB of RAM, 12GB HD space and a 8800GTS? WTF is that about? 
 No matter how good a game looks, there is literally no game out there that requires this kind of 
 system to run, not even oblivion, and oblivion is spectacular looking. Crysis will run fine on 
 a system i mentioned above and dont even get me started on its visuals! All in all this game is 
 terribly obtimised, looks poor considering its requirnments.
  
  To top that they make the gameplay totally arcade, unlike the previous games, so this makes a double 
 blow to an already suffering game. Cars handle poorly like they're totally weightless.
  
  Menu system is garbage, I dont know WTH GS is on about praising it. Saving it after every 5 freakin 
 seconds really makes me wanna scratch my hair out!
  
  Oh and did i mention it requires 12GB of storage and came on 2 DVD's? And its a driving game. WOW 
 is all i can say.
  
  Stay away from this garbage if you dont have a dual core system with a 7900GTx2 or 8800GTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Eater
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  As with all the previous CMR games, here comes another unsurpassed rally driving game.
  
  The truly stunning graphics are incredibly lifelike, HDR is implemented in just the right proportions, 
 but this feature is also the major drawback for this game. The PC configuration for running this 
 game smoothly with decent graphics, is just ridiculous. My rig is not the top-of-the-line, but 
 it can handle games such as Oblivion, S. T. A. L. K. E. R., Lost Planet: Extreme Condition, and the like, 
 in very to ultra-high settings at a reasonable frame rates, above 25 fps. This game, though still 
 looking awesome, forces me to play at 1024x768 rez, 2x AA, shadows on high, and all other settings 
 at low; I manage to pull over 25 fps, but only in the events that include only me at the track 
 (and the crossover events too, to be honest - 2 cars, but not in the same frame most of the time) . 
 As soon as multiple cars are involved in racing, the game becomes almost unplayable, with fps going 
 down as low as 9!
  
  Putting this drawback aside, this game delivers incredible immersion, realistic physics and damage, 
 and will push you to try and finish every event in Pro mode, even if it means going over the same 
 track dozens of times.
  When played with steering wheel, it even more adds to the immersion, because the steering is very 
 well balanced, braking and acceleration are extremely responsive and you truly get the feel of 
 the different horsepower of different cars. Force feedback even made my pectoral muscles ache if 
 I stayed glued to the screen too long.
  
  Sound is also great, but it puts significant amount of strain on the rig too, but it's easily adjusted 
 in the sound options.
  
  The only major remark I found for this game is the inadequate configuration of the controls. Namely 
 you can't configure your controller or wheel to navigate the menu via the d-pad, and configurable 
 buttons. You can only do it through the keyboard, which gets quite annoying when having to lean 
 over to the keyboard every time you must pick an option.
  
  So here's a recap:
  
  Gameplay: 8 - a bit too much leans to the console style games, and the game-braking menu navigating.
 
  Graphics: 10 - no need to elaborate, simply stunning.
  Sound: 9 - good, but hard on the rig.
  Value: 10 - worth every penny.
  My tilt: 9 - just short 
 of 10
  
  Hope this help you decide on getting this game!
  See ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcostin
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 21, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  I really was anticipating this game to be great. Well I was disappointed right off the bat. Windows 
 Vista ultimate 64bit and the copyright protection on this game do not mix. I purchased this game 
 through newegg and it is a legit retail game. Just to get it to run I had to find a no cd patch. 
 Hmm not good. Before I did all that though I called the tech support number and codemasters have 
 weird hours so they were closed. So I went to the support forums and many people were having the 
 same issue. The fix for now is a no cd patch. Wow StarForce copy right protection stinks to high 
 heaven. before I used the no cd patch I patched the game with the 1.1 patch and it still had the 
 problem. I then renamed the original exe to old and the dropped the no cd file in its place. Wa 
 la, I was in business. Once in I had a blast playing it the menus interface is cool and the playability 
 with the Logitech G25 force feedback wheel is exciting. There were some glitches with the graphics 
 a little bit but for the most part it looked spectacular. It is a system hog and you need the top 
 of the line parts to enjoy the full capability of this game. I have 2 X 8800 GTS 640mb cards in 
 SLI with 4 GB og memory and a core 2 duo E6600 processor overclocked to 3.3 GHZ. There were some 
 spots when racing the AI that it chugged a little bit.
  Overall impression: Needs some major updates but is a blast to play if you have the right stuff!!!
 
  
  Well after many many tries to get this thing to run on a Windows Vista Ultimate 64bit machine it 
 just will not. The problem is that the StarForce protection system does not like the operating 
 system. What do I have to do to play the game. I have to send them an e-mail everytime to obtain 
 a cd key to play the game. ridiculous I have chnged my scoring for this game from a 7.9 to a 4.6. 
 This StarForce protection is crap and until codemasters do somthing about it my rating for the 
 game will stand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homebrew197516
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  I like this game, its fun. I can't compair it to other rally games as I'm not really into them, 
 but Dirt is definanly a fun game. Its very well presented with great menu system. The graphics 
 are fantastic, I can play it at 1900x1200 with everything set to max detail and it runs perfectly 
 on my 8800gtx and duel core.
  The sound is quite realistic but not ground breaking. This game cost me &pound;17.99 from Gameplay 
 so good value for money and plenty of gaming hours. My Microsoft Sidewinder works ok in game but 
 it won't control the menue screen for some reason. HTH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 14, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Colin Mcrae DiRT has arrived better than I expected, graphics are not everything but they help 
 a lot in gaming experience, DiRT has the best graphics I have seen in a racing game, this beauty 
 requires a top PC to play in full details. Controllers are the worst part in the game, its too 
 hard to play with a wheel and its not easy to play with a controler or keyboard but after some 
 time you'll get used to it and it will feel a lot better. There are lots of things to do in DiRT, 
 a simple but interesting career mode, various single player modes, rallys, championships, 46 cars 
 to unlock and many paint jobs for each car, many tracks...
  The sound fits also fits perfectly in the game, the engines and the effects such has crashs are 
 all great.
  DiRT its not an innovative game, but its a solid game that delivers nice adrenaline and fun, the 
 driving its intensive and anything in the road can affect your driving, its awsome, the crash textures 
 are perfect and the addition of the totally crashed or something like that its very cool, when 
 you have a big accident your car can get incapacitated to continue racing.
  There are some good racing games out there like GTR2, Need for Speed or Test Drive Unlimited, they 
 are all diferent and now DiRT enters the list of great racing games and its also diferent so if 
 your looking for a good racing game choose what suits you better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_ford
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  This game is not what i expected from codemasters.. fist let me give an advise... If you haven't 
 a high end pc you must not buy this game.. I am running this game in a amd x2 4200 with 2G of ram 
 and a geforce 8800 gts and i am still loosing frames.. The problem becomes bigger when i am racing 
 with others.. Ok the menus are beautiful, the carrer is almost the same as toca 3... the graphics 
 are outstanding (if you have a good system) , the sound is incredible but the handling of the cars 
 is suspicious.. It reminds me arcade games... A nice game but i expected something more from codemasters... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spec440
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  codemasters have done it again with this latest installment of the colin mcrae series!
  
  this is quite possibly the best off-road racing game i've ever played.
  lots of disciplines and 
 lots vehicles to fit anyone's taste, be it tearing down a mountain road in a turbocharged four-wheel-drive 
 impreza or evo, or hard-core dirt churning action in a CORR buggy!
  
  the graphics, physics, and damage models are nothing short of spectacular, but require a require 
 a beefy computer to fully enjoy.
  you need at least a geforce 7800 series card, a powerful CPU and at the very least a gig and a 
 half of ram if you want to fully enjoy what this game has to offer when it comes it eye-candy... 
 (and boy, does it have alot to offer)
  
  the menus and interface are all very slick and easy to operate, and the fact that you can call 
 up tips at the press of a button to aid you in vehicle selection or setup, and even to brief you 
 on the track / stage you're about to race on is very helpful!
  
  the sound is great, every vehicle has its on distinct engine sound, gear-shift sounds, turbo noise, 
 etc' etc'
  and the in-menu music between racing sections (and in the after-action replay, which is great to 
 watch) is nice and cool, and really gets you in the mood to go off-road at speed.
  
  the controls can be somewhat problematic if you dont have a wheel or gamepad and must resort to 
 a keyboard to play, but with a little tweaking you can make controlling your car / buggy / truck 
 a heck of alot easier.
  personally (and i play with a keyboard) i like the steering saturation at 60% and the steering 
 deadzone at 15% (both these settings, and others, can be found in the 'advanced' section on the 
 control setup)
  
  in short: a very enjoyable and very fun off road racing game!
  me likee! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulomello2006
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok, lets talk about DiRT:
  
  At my point of view, this is an more of the same , brings new graphics engine with nice graphics 
 and effects, nice sound effects, but a very... very poor control... in the racing games, nothing 
 is more important that a nice control, and DiRT dont have any chances with other games in the same 
 genre. Its very hard to race in correct line because the controls dont help, the car slides on 
 the road like an ice cube and the responde of controls dont posses precision that results in an 
 bad driving experience.
  
  thats it...
  DiRT is literally a Dirty game... :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doug_Rock
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It is a perfect mixture of dirt and races. I don't know why, but when i think 
 of this game, i imagine a Toca Race driver full of dirt. :p
  
  Graphics are hell awesome. I love to compare the clean car you have in the begining, wit the dirty 
 car you have in the end. The crashes are another thing that for sure helps to enhance the graphics 
 for the car responds well for when you crash onto something. I love to crash onto walls to see 
 my windows breaking, the front part falling. It is awesome!
  
  The gameplay is ok. I think that it needs to become a little bit more real, but nothing that makes 
 the game boring. You just have to get comfortable. I don't like much the gameplay of rally races.
 
  
  The sound is amazing but not excellent. I don't have many things to talk about it.
  
  This game is one of those that you must have in your computer. There are no failures during the 
 game experience and it is just wonderful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp_celik
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Dirt very well designed by the programmers, the spend a lot of time making those little details 
 that make the game score a lot of points on gamers reviews . It's this great damage modeling which 
 is good in the frontal part of the car but as you have seen the back of the car doesn't have that 
 kind of detailed damage. Then there is the game play it's totally arcade it's so unbelievable how 
 fast the car goes to stop from 100 km/h. I would say to the programing crew that they should have 
 spent a little more time on making the game realistic cause having all of those great details, 
 damage modeling, great graphics, etc, the game should have been a little more realistic. If someone 
 may ask why I say because we've all seen the older series and we know it's an arcade game but it's 
 time to change something to that and make it more realistic. The game now as it is it's to much 
 of an arcade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigdan_228
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  First thing first, I want to talk about the graphics. AMAZING. Lot of details, superb light effects 
 and car designing. The tracks are fun and nicely done. Sometime, even with a good computer, the 
 framerate have hard time but it is not as bad as some say.
  
  Gameplay is good. Not exactly the style of dirt driving but if you don't care about that, it makes 
 the game really fun to play. I didn't play the other Colin Mcrae games so I can't say if before 
 was better but I can tell you: If you want a good racing game just to have fun or to try one, Colin 
 Mcrae Dirt is waiting for you.
  
  Multiplayer: this is the bad part. Really weird they don't put a lot of stuff in that. You can't 
 even see the other players driving! Popular games always have a good online/multiplayer support.
 
  
  So it was my short review of Colin Mcrae Dirt. If the game had a good multiplayer mode, I'm sure 
 it would be THE racing game for a while. Thanks for reading :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazdude
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about Dirt is the amazing navigation menu, possibly the best ever in 
 a PC game. A must have in a genre such as this, but all the same an abundance of game modes are 
 available, ranging from career to sandbox events. There are many different tracks and vehicles 
 to choose from, as well as the freedom to unlock new models and fine tune your ride.
  
  On the other hand a major flaw lies in the difficult controls of the game, which favors a racing 
 wheel peripheral as apposed to default keyboard keys, and this will be an essential item in order 
 to get the most out of your experience. In a related way, Dirt feels more like a console port in 
 general, and suffers as a result, however is not as poorly done as most other titles.
  
  
  What makes Dirt so popular is its benchmark visuals, easily topping any other PC racing sim 
 to precede it. Attention to detail is noteworthy, and if you're a car enthusiast you will be rewarded 
 with realistic vehicle makes and models. Also deserving of praise is the physics engine, and in 
 particular the real world damage system which sets a new standard never before achieved without 
 arcade like action.
  
  Beware, you will need a high end machine to run Dirt properly, as even the best set ups will have 
 difficulty on ultra high settings. In single races your game performance may run fine, however 
 multiple vehicle events can take its toll, sometimes slowing framerates down to a slideshow unless 
 you tone down the quality.
  
  
  Looks aren't all this racer has to offer, it sounds great too. The audio keeps up to par with the 
 rest of the attention to detail, matching its vehicles well. Unlike other games in this genre, 
 Dirt lacks a robust musical soundtrack, instead opting for a more professional less is more approach.
 
  
  
  As far as playability goes, Dirt boasts a long career mode to keep you occupied, as well as many 
 fun single races. If thats not enough, you can always try harder difficulty levels, win more cash, 
 purchase more cars, set faster times, and so on. Unfortunately multiplayer is a let down, and seems 
 like a half-baked afterthought, then again Dirt was designed to shine on single player. In conclusion, 
 if you're a fan of rally style racing, have a high end PC and are willing to spend the extra cash 
 on peripherals, Dirt is a must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staypuft44
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  In what could've been a truly excellent gaming experience, the port (and it is clearly a port) 
 of DiRT to the PC was one that focused on presentation instead of control.
  
  I find myself a little confused at how the Gamespot reviewers can praise this game so much for 
 being such a blithering mess.
  
  After finally getting the game installed I managed to navigate my way through the poorly-designed 
 interface (again, clearly a port from a console - this should have been remade for the PC) , I dug 
 around to try to get a quick race going.
  
  Keyboard controls are pointless for racing games, and DiRT makes quick proof of that. After waiting 
 about 20 minutes for the game to load (will explain later) I played a quick track and using the 
 tiniest taps on the arrow keys found myself doing 90 degree skids off and on the track.
  
  After another bout of digging through the interface to find the controls, I had to add all of the 
 buttons myself as there was no listing from my Logitech Rumblepad 2 (like there should be) .
  
  Started the game, played a track, and like the keyboard, even the most minute of nudges to 
 the analog stick and the car is flailing wildly across the track.
  
  Keep in mind, this is after the patch released to fix controller issues.
  
  According to the 
 release notes from Codemasters, they really only added support for a few brand new driving wheels 
 and it would seem have no intent on adding any controller support past that.
  
  The truth is, this game looks incredible, although could have been greatly fine tuned to run better 
 on the hardware it's given, but the experience is lost when even through insane tweaking of the 
 steering controls you still can't control a car when even the wind catches grip of your analog 
 stick.
  
  This game should be completely compatible with a giant list of controllers and use those analog 
 features accordingly. It amazes me that a game developed for the PC left the manufacturer with 
 little to no controller support and clearly the lack of functionality for analogs outside of using 
 a 360 controller for use on your PC (and if you have the controller, you probably have the 360, 
 so why bother with the PC version?) .
  
  A quick rundown: - Framerate and hardware usage could do with a lot of optimization on the developer 
 end
  - Sound was chopping, tinny, and really only just achieved what it was supposed do, didn't do any 
 impressing
  - Dual core support: Great, but if you're like me and set affinity to 1 proc for a new game, you'll 
 be sorry. When it realises you have dual core, it will hardly play with one core running. Truly 
 baffling.
  - The sights, despite poor framerate, were incredible. Great graphics really make this game look 
 realistic and like something you could play until your fingers bled.
  - The controls, ruined the entire experience built up so graciously by the graphics. As much as 
 you try to tell yourself it's worth playing because it looks good, the brutal control support makes 
 it unplayable when there are so many other racing games that can provide the satisfaction of driving 
 in a virtual environment.
  - The interface was poor, needed a more logical redesign for the PC, and should've allowed for 
 use of the controller instead of just the keyboard (and not even the mouse) .
  
  The bottom line is that this game needs a giant patch or it will be passed over by a lot of PC 
 users, and its giving the developing company's egotistical name a real reality check. As it stands 
 it is a tragic waste of beautiful graphic technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swollen2thebone
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Well, i am going to keep it short and sweet, because i want your attention.
  
  this game is great as a single player, but will leave you scratching your head at Online experience. 
 don't expect to rub it up against other players online, because they are not there, its just you 
 racing against their active time. yes, your racing them, but they are not visible and they do not 
 affect your race. So, it feels kind of lonely, even though your not alone, Think of it like drag 
 racing someone in a different country and only see the time results. Thats it,
  Single player, your going to be fine. Online, you will feel jerked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCaller
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Well, the gameplay is nice but WHOA! You need a pc that can handle it because The first time you 
 slip DiRT into your PC, you may just crap your pants. That's because, more than likely, the game 
 will have trouble running on your machine. Before you even consider buying DiRT (which happens 
 to be an excellent rally racer) , you better have a beast of a machine (Recommended: Intel Core 
 2 Duo 2.66Ghz, GeForce 880) if you hope to enjoy a smooth framerate and a decent resolution. If 
 you have the machine to handle it, you're in for a treat. The environments are lush, the lighting 
 superb and the damage modeling incredible. DiRT is gorgeous. And the spectacular visuals are matched 
 by the most impressive user interface to ever bless a console. Once the rush of the inspired visuals 
 and eye-popping menus passes, you'll find a very solid rally racer. Though it's not the best of 
 the Colin McRae series, DiRT is perhaps the most accessible. It's not perfect, but it's damned 
 pretty -- and a whole lot of fun.
  
  Great rally racers find a way to mix sim aspects with an arcade spirit. The sport, by its nature, 
 features a lot of power sliding around narrow corners in rustic settings, creating a sense that 
 you're somehow defying the laws of physics. But that's true rally racing. DiRT does a great job 
 of offering both an arcade experience (for those who are faint of heart) and a hardcore challenge 
 (for those with balls of stone) . The default difficulty keeps the challenge fairly lax. Crank up 
 the difficulty setting and suddenly every fast turn becomes risky and any crash can prove fatal. 
 Few games offer two different sets of experiences, but DiRT does it better than most. So whether 
 you are just a casual racing fan or a Colin McRae nut, you can have fun racing across the beautiful 
 wilderness vistas of DiRT.
  
  The bulk of the single-player experience is in the career mode -- an epic pyramid of increasingly 
 difficult racing challenges. It consists of six different rally events: Rally, Crossover, Rallycross, 
 Rally Raid, CORR and Hill Climb. These are equally distributed throughout career, meaning that 
 those who love time-trial rally racing will find considerably fewer of these events than in previous 
 CM games. While that might be reason to complain, the multi-car races fit perfectly into the grittier 
 attitude of DiRT. The healthy variety of race types keeps the career mode interesting from the 
 bottom of the event pyramid up to the top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mono999
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Even Ubisoft, which used STARFORCE on all their games have stopped using this intrusive protection, 
 because so many users have problems with it. In case you are not familiar with this type of protection 
 I would do a search on the net before installing this game. Once installed it is very hard to remove 
 from your computer. It stays on even after you uninstall the game.
  
  It is a shame, most companies have dump STARFORCE. There are sites on the Internet that keep a 
 list of all games that use this protection. The first thing I do before buying ANY game is to make 
 sure it doesn't use STARFORCE!
  
  The game looks great, but never and I mean never will I install a game that takes over my computer. 
 Do your homework before buying this game or you'll regret it.
  
  ONE MORE THING: Believe it or not even the DEMO has STARFORCE on it. Why anyone would be compelled 
 to use this type of protection on a demo is beyond me. How sad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This is the best arcade racing game I've played in my 10 years of game raciing. Sometimes children 
 (that is, not too bright people) don't realize just how great a game is when it first comes out- 
 they just want to find flaws so they can feel superior to game developers. DIRT is truly cutting 
 edge. It's more of an arcade game than a realistic one, and maybe that's why it doesn't get the 
 enough praise. But really, DIRT is unlike any other racing game in overall quality - unique for 
 June, 2007. The physics combined with graphics are UNMATCHED.
  
  The floaty physics complaint is legitimate, but maybe computers are not powerful enough yet to 
 render every nook and cranny in a similarly rendered road surface.
  
  Compare DIRT to the latest NFS see for yourself just how far ahead this game is to any other relaxed 
 sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkfanatic
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  After playing through Dirt on the Pro difficulty setting, I can confidently say it is the best 
 rally racer I've ever played. Not because the graphics are excellent, not because of the sheer 
 number of tracks, but because of how fun it is to take a car ,100 mph into a hairpin turn with 
 your co driver rattling about. Seriously ,if you don't listen to your co driver ( the times you 
 have one) your going to end up in the grass, off a cliff ,or into a tree with your vehicle sustaining 
 terminal damage. This game is by no means to tough for the average gamer, but if you like to beat 
 the crap out of your car on the first lap, its a sure bet you won't be seeing the end of this game. 
 That's where this game really shines, the balance is perfect, it eases you in until about halfway 
 through, then it starts to throw multiple races at you, with only one chance to repair damage. 
 However, the game isn't too realistic so with some practice you should be able to learn the tracks/differences 
 between the cars to find the best one for the given situation. In conclusion if your looking for 
 one of the best if not the best racer on XBOX 360 look no further. The graphics are phenominal 
 and the tracks very well designed, my only gripe is the online mode isn't exactly thrilling, but 
 the great career mode more than makes up for that misstep. Hopefully, next time the online mode 
 will be up to par with other racers if it is, Dirt 2 will be the one of the best racing games ever................... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raisers
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  First, everyone is saying how graphics are great. For me... well not. They could be really great 
 were the game not overdone with HDR bloom. What were they thinking? It looks like somebody turned 
 contrast/brightness all the way full. It can't be fixed with gamma setting. Tracks could really 
 look good with better HDR settings, some are impressive. Tracks where you're racing against other 
 cars look horrible, like from some 4-5 year old game, probably because other cars are slowing down 
 fps. And that's also bad this game is a graphics hog. You will need 8800 card with dualcore at 
 3GHz to get decent fps at only medium settings.
  
  Second, handling sucks. When first two CMR came out it felt so realistic at the time (Richard Burns 
 Rally hadn't been released yet) , you were driving sometimes for 25-30 minutes per stage. Now it's 
 all short, career is a mixed bag of too many cars and stages where you can't focus on one's car 
 handling - plus handling itself is horrible, does not feel like a car at all. Like they did it 
 for people that can't spend time to learn to drive, but thats the thing with rally games they get 
 fun once you learn how to drive a bit! Interestingly using camera from inside of a car gives much 
 better feel for the car. I don't know why but it feels different - better. But view area is too 
 limited so its very hard to drive like that.
  
  Career mode sucks so gameplay is not fun. I played until i finished career but didn't feel fun. 
 Sound is ok. Ahhh the menues - OMG i almost forgot how incredibly irritating the menus are. Too 
 console like! What ever happened with PC like menus. PC gamers like to get through menus quickly 
 but here everything takes couple of seconds, there's always some saving/loading when going through 
 menus (i really don't know what for!) and after all saves you get a message saying saving was successful 
 which takes 3-4 seconds every single time. IRRITATING LIKE HELL. And game didn't allow going through 
 menues using gamepad but only using keyboard. How sick is that? Sitting comfortably in your chair 
 but having to lean forward everytime you need to move through the menus?! Very bad. Multiplayer 
 is boring. They need to completely change the direction or cancel Colin McRae series altogether. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziyaad30
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Congratulations to Codemasters, you really brought it out of the depths. Smooth running, visual 
 effects. Simply put when my wife I played the game it was frustrating at first, then all of a sudden 
 we started learning the cars actions and movements. I wouldn't really bother to play further, it's 
 a bit too far out for me.
  
  Since I am not really a fan of cars racing and stuff. Though i have a litle brother who is just 
 facinated by cars and speed. The game actually caught his eye on a commercial. But playing it for 
 real was his cheer.
  
  We would really like to thank Codemasters once again for the excellence, no money wasted there 
 I must say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tara__35
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game is in terms of Gameplay nearly perfect! The graphics are good, cool flashy menus, good 
 difficulty, simply fun. Why then do i give it such a bad review? It can all be summed up in one 
 word: Starforce. I can understand why companies would want to protect their games from pirates 
 and the sort, but this software is so bad that i was forced to return this awesome game and get 
 something else. After i installed this, the first thing i got was a Blue Screen (and this was on 
 Windows Vista!) . Knowing Vista's flaws, i tried it on my laptop which had XP MCE and what do u 
 know, I get a BSOD! Honestly, if you want a good racing game, keep waiting till someone better 
 comes out with one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onenumcat
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  I really need a SLi profile. 2x7600GS 512mb each. I'm getting about 20 FPS in-game, 55 FPS menus, 
 all settings to low, MSx2Q and 800x600. Have dual-core 2.4 CPU. If you have anything less than 
 this... forget it! You won't enjoy the game. A friend of mine has a similar system with 7950 GX2, 
 he gets about 30 FPS in game. So, you'll need at least an 8x series (or equivalent) and 3+ GHz 
 CPU to be happy with this one... however, I am fairly happy with the performance, now. Without any 
 enhancements and at 1024x768, I was getting an average of 10-12 FPS. It's really tough getting 
 a balance of performance and quality in this game. Certainly, I could get a few more FPS outta 
 it, but, without enhancements, the graphics are crappy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winduck07
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  A good game overall although there are some things I do like and dont like. Game physics is good. 
 I tweaked all the settings for the 360 Steering Wheel and still could not rid that annoying side-to-side 
 motion all vehicls had, even on a straight track with the steering wheel, I held the steering wheel 
 straight and the game car would not stay straight, it swerved side to side, whats up with that? 
 Other than that, plays great with the hand controller and other little glitches, after I do a custom 
 load for a vehicle tweak-settings which will default the controller setting to setting one (had 
 mine on custom controller setting) . I had to start the race, exit to the main menu, reload custom 
 settings for my hand controller then return to the race... each time.
  I was kind of expecting at least some sort of free-for-all bumper-cars sandbox section in either 
 single player or online. Nope. Too bad that would be kind of cool, a free roam romp.
  Rolling and flipping over isnt as fun as the commercial makes it out to be, a car rolls off track 
 and the game resets the car back in middle of the track, worse yet all other cars pass you and 
 you have to catch up or start the race over again.
  Overall its a good rally game for the 360, if not the only rally game for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VioXtreme
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping for a realistic, or at least semi-realistic rally game. These cars just do not control 
 right. There is no feel to the driving. The cars just kinda float along. Maybe I am just spoiled 
 by Richard Burns Rally and GTR 2? The graphics and presentation are awesome, however. You will 
 need a top of the line PC to play it at full detail. It is kinda annoying that the game has to 
 restart after pretty much any change to the graphics or sound options. Bottom line, if you are 
 looking for a very very arcade style rally game, this may entertain you. If you are looking for 
 good physics and a little realism, then look somewher else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokineh
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best Colin Mcrae to date. The graphics are simply AMAZING! All the details down 
 to the rocks on the road look real. My only issue was with what the water on the roads when coming 
 off the tires and the dust clouds behind the car looks like. The only visual that does not look 
 real when on high settings. However, I only see it in the replay as I use the inside the car cam 
 at all times for all racing games. The other lame thing is the lack of a good multiplayer in the 
 game. I love going to LAN parties and racing my buds and pushing them off the track etc. just to 
 make it that much more fun and frustrating at the same time. With DiRT - you don't get that. This 
 is pretty much my only beef with the game and if it had a good multiplayer, I would have given 
 it a 9.9 !! Still worth buying though if you're into doing the career mode (and have a wheel and 
 pedal set-up) . Don't bother with a keyboard or gamepad - it's JUST NOT THE SAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  From the beginning, DiRT may be boring, but after some races you`ll get to like this arcade racing 
 game. The graphics are extraordinary, a lot of work to damage engine, sound of the cars is boring 
 but the music is well chosen.
  A bad thing is that the producers should have add some more tracks, they are boring after so many 
 repeats. The control of the car is awful, you need to change a lot of things in steering controls, 
 also with a wheel its more fun.
  Non-stable online servers, too bad. From 10 races online, i finished only 2, because on the other 
 ones, the server crashed and disconnected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ignas24
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  this game is very good. soory i am not speeking english very well. but this game requirements is 
 highest of all games i have seen. so the game is one of the best
  this game is very good. soory i am not speeking english very well. but this game requirements is 
 highest of all games i have seen. so the game is one of the best
  this game is very good. soory i am not speeking english very well. but this game requirements is 
 highest of all games i have seen. so the game is one of the best
  this game is very good. soory i am not speeking english very well. but this game requirements is 
 highest of all games i have seen. so the game is one of the best
  this game is very good. soory i am not speeking english very well. but this game requirements is 
 highest of all games i have seen. so the game is one of the best
  this game is very good. soory i am not speeking english very well. but this game requirements is 
 highest of all games i have seen. so the game is one of the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kemicon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  I've been thoroughly enjoying my time with Dirt. The driving feels pretty good, the graphics are 
 great, and the game is put together in a slick package. It's not all as good as the core game however, 
 and here are a couple of my gripes. First off, the driving is pretty easy and feels a bit arcadey. 
 The brakes are nearly supernatural in their ability to stop you, and the car sticks to the track 
 a little better than it should. The saddest part is that their is no way to change this. After 
 playing GTR 2 with it's near-intimidating amount of options, this is a bit sad. At the same time 
 I also found myself wishing that GTR 2 were presented half as well as Dirt, so I have to give credit 
 where it's due. It would have been nice to have some kind of customizable livery. Games like Gran 
 Turismo end up having an almost RPG like aspect to them because you can get really into upgrading 
 and tweaking the cars. It doesn't ruin anything by any means but the absence is notable.
  
  I liked how easy it was to use the Xbox 360 controller on my PC. After plugging in you rarely have 
 to touch the keyboard. That being said some buttons could have been set a little better and it 
 would be nice to be able to jump to the options menu while in a race. It ends up being clear that 
 this was developed with the consoles in mind but in the end it's all a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trashcanhands
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Let me start out saying that half my pc gaming time is spent playing race-sims.
  I play  I use a simple but effective Logitech Momo steering wheel/pedal 
 setup. I play on a AMD Athlon64X2 @2.7ghz, 2gb RAM, 8800GTX OC, 1kW PS, WindowXP Pro. I play DiRT 
 at 1280x1024, Graphical Settings high/ultra except- Shadows on medium, G-Card controlled 16xQ AA. 
 I havent completed the game yet either. After first driving a few miles in Time Trail, tweaking 
 the controls to get a proper 'feel', i dove into my first Career event - a single car point-to-point 
 classic rally with the fwd Renault Clio and i was HOOKED.... it looks Incredible. It ran with a great 
 framerate with NO stutters (bless the 8800) the particle effects are great (love watching the cars 
 get really dirty) and the car damage model is very nice. The car interiors and driver models are 
 mostly accurate and awesome looking as well. A drawback I instantly noticed switching through the 
 different viewing perspectives is that on the secondary cockpit view (seeing further back) there 
 is a horrible animation delay when you go to shift and then a half-second later see your animited 
 virtual arm go to shift. He also moves just too slow which if for if some reason you have to rapidly 
 shift down through the gears (and you'll have to:) ) the leisurely shifitng animations backup and 
 5 seconds after you completed your last literal shift, your driver model finally finishes the animation 
 sequence. No Good. Same problem if you go to yank on the Handbrake (and you'll need to:) ) In other 
 race-sim games they have the animations and physical inputs synch up much better and 'smarter'. 
 I use the first cockpit view (close to wheel, best in my opinion, most-'sim') so you don't really 
 have to see it. The problem with that view is their is no option to turn on indicators (too sim?) 
 and it would be nice to see a speed readout or a selected gear indicator. Some cars cockpit layouts 
 let you see a rpm meter/gear indicator in that view, some don't.
  
  The cars feel good physics-wise, but i never drove a 2000lbs, Rally-Spec (read very snappy ) 1.6L 
 Turbo rally-tuned FWD Dirt Rat through some nasty swamp-wood so i cant really say if there realistic 
 . They are fun to drive after tweaking the controls and understanding what they want you to do 
 Tuning-wise for each layout. After some time i was pulling off some very nice sliding that looked 
 brilliant in the replays. The courses are varied terrain-wise and great to race on and great to 
 look at. The level of immersion is very high. Sound is great, but seems to make a larger than normal 
 impact on performance than most games when set to d3d-type.
  
  I was still very pleased on first impressions and then i went to race a multiple vehicle event 
 and instantly got the momentum knocked out of my sails. Much lower frame rates (compared to single/dual 
 car events) and the occasional stuttering make the mulitvehicle/multiplayer events mostly unplayable 
 for me. When the cars cluster together things can go into the low 20'fps.
  I benchmark a 10000+ in 3dMark06 with my rig so make your perfomance decisions based on that. Im 
 pretty picky about framerate some people can play racing games at 30fps or sub-30fps, i cant. The 
 Single car events and dual car Crossover events run much better so i just play them. I basically 
 only play 75 percent of the game (should have payed 29.99 instead of 39.99) , eschewing the 3+ vehicle 
 events just cause of the doggy framerate issues. DiRT is a really good game that looks amazing, 
 but the bad taste of its quirks are hard to wash away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono0
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 25, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  DiRT is a GREAT looking game, you cant deny that.
  But the fact remains that this game IS NOT suitable for PC.
  I mean, 2GB, GeForce 8800, Vista 
 Recommended?! What the heck is wrong with this people?!
  As i have said, the graphics of this game are awesome. its good looking even with the lowest Graphics 
 quality!
  The menu bg music is nice, aut you can hardly hear the music in the racing them selfs (if there 
 is any music there) .
  The race tracks are fin to play and quite entertaining to watch in the replay.
  I love the replay 
 because, unlike games like FIFA and such, the camera changes location and angle rapidly, which 
 is fun to watch, especially in Slow Motion haha!
  The menu is fun to look and use also.
  But where this game crashes and burns is at Multiplayer Gameplay. its just pathetic. one room, 
 random players coming in and out, voting... Its better off without multiplayer and thats it.
  
  So overall, even with these HUGE system requirements, this game is very fun to play, with or 
 without friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vong269
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  game has jaw breaking graphics but you would need a high end rig to play the game well. as for 
 my rig i run dual core 2.6ghz 2 gb ram and a 7900gt overclocked beyonf a 7900gtx. and man do i 
 have to tell you it lags as hell on my computer on high settings.
  
  what i like in this version though is the damage you could do to the car your driving. i never 
 seen such damage while playing before. almost everything is breakable not just to the car but to 
 the outside world as well like the guard rails. everything seems alright untill the driving part. 
 the learing curb for learinging how to drive properly and not crash every 2 sec was so hard you 
 would want to smash your keyboard to bits. i swear driving in in the 2004 series and 05 was sooo 
 much easier then dirt. een with a steering wheel it was alot harder to get used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  New racing game by Codemaster who made the previous Colin McRae racing series. I'm not a big fan 
 of racing games but this one's graphics really caught my eye and decided to give it a shot. The 
 graphics are definitely one of the best for current racing games, great looking tracks, scenery 
 and cars. Like most racing games you earn money by completing career races, lot of vehicle customizations. 
 Theres six different racing disciplines which gives you a lot of variety and not making the game 
 boring doing the same thing over and over. The six racing disciplines are rally, rally cross, hill 
 climb, CORR, crossover, and rally raid varieties. The game also informs you of what types of races 
 there are, vehicle, upgrades, tracks, does a good job to help explain game details. The physicals 
 of vehicle damage also looks awesome, models are very detailed and realistic, even mud from the 
 track will kick up and stick to the car. I'm able to run the game with graphics maxed out and the 
 game is very smooth, but from what I've read in other sites that its a resource hog on average 
 computers but thats expected with the amount of detail in this game. Sound could have been a little 
 better but it doesnt take anything away from the game. Main negative thing I have found with the 
 game and a lot of people are complaining about that vehicles feel a little floaty and light, some 
 people might have a hard time adjusting to the feel of it, personally I dont think its to bad, 
 something you can get used to. If you're a racing fan I'm sure you'll enjoy this entertaining game.
 
  
  Runs flawless @ maxed graphics on:
  AMD Athlon 64 X2 Dual Core 6000+ AM2,1MBx2,3.0GHz
  OCZ Plat XTC 2GB DDR2 800MHz
  BFG GeForce 8800GTX OC 768MB 600MHz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fishworm
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  So we all know the CMR rally series has been filling the needs of rally racers from year 2002. 
 In which last title was CMR 2005. Which was thought to be the ending of the series. But it is back 
 and with a lot of bang.
  
  Now as to start its the same rally game where we have run against the time. No no no no...... You 
 are making a mistake there besides rally there is 5 more type of offroad driving that will be CORR, 
 Hill-climb, rally cross, cross over and rally raid. So this is why it takes Hogging 10 GB space 
 on the HD. There are three types of seies to start with CAREER, CHAMPIONSHIP And RALLY WORLD. The 
 Career allows you climb the pyramid by completing rallies &amp; races and gaining points. The rallies 
 and races includes random selection of races with increasing difficulty. So wanna startup career 
 gives you complete know about the races and rallies.
  
  Coming to tech issues, the GRAPHICS this game has been said to be resource hogging in mant forums, 
 but if your system is made for gaming then it can run very well. The in game graphics are very 
 good, the utmost consideration is given to car detailing. The vehicals used are all copyrighted 
 and original which puts lot of realism in the game. The tracks and environment is also good. The 
 Rally cannot be completed without directions, and which can only come from navigator. Here comes 
 the part where SOUND plays its role. the navigator voice is realistic to the utmost point. This 
 is the first game in the series for having music tracks in it as all the other part lacks in it. 
 GAMEPLAY is the region where this game lagged a little. The gamplay style is a bit of arcade style. 
 As if they have tried to loosen the reality string. Although it might help to get on easily with 
 controls.
  
  MULTIPLAYER is the worst part in the game with 2 modes only. And nothing is there to talk about 
 it.
  
  So in the end we have a game in our hand which is fun to play if played alone. It will keep you 
 away from getting boredfor atleast 2 to 3 weeks.
  So Happy Gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N8XcruC8N
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 10
  Gameplay: 5
  Replay Value: 7
  Stability: 10
  Sound: 10
  
  Great game. Expect a lot of hating because the controls are not full sim. Expect a bigger than 
 usual learning curve because of it. Good races and decent performance. Just a fun game.
  
  The AI is good. There is no catch up. So, count on not havig you pull your hair out when someone 
 hits 400mph to beat you in a race. (Most wanted, i'm talking to you.) Basically, the AI is very 
 consistent in lap times, so expects fair play. If you can't get past the gameplay, buy it. If not, 
 buy Burns' rally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minaeitea
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  What can i say, the graphics are superb but the recommendations are high and no one can play this 
 game with a weak computer. When driving the car, then it looks like it's floating. The steer ability 
 is a littler bit hard too.
  
  About the Graphics. It's beautiful to see but the blur is again overrated. When you are driving 
 inside the car, with blur, you can't see clearly the viewers. That's sometime annoying.
  
  About the Damage. Well done with that. But there is a problem again. The headlights can't be destroyed, 
 even when you drive 200 km/h into the wall.
  
  It's good thing that they added some new racing style. Like riding with big trucks. Just like Dakar.
 
  
  My last words, i enjoyed the game, but i'm not finished yet. This game should be on Xbox360 or 
 PS3. It's just with very good graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xkiller_NL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  A Great game but at the same time a multiplayer mode wich makes you cry.
  You can only chose from 2 different multiplayer modes : Rally and Hillclimb...
  I was looking 
 so forward to this game because I thought you would be able to race against multiple other cars/players 
 at the same time, but now you can only drive alone in a time challenged multiplayer-mode. So what 
 I'm very dissapointed of is that you cant have a real race with multiple cars on the track. My 
 conclusion is that this game is very cool the graphics are breathtaking and the gameplay rocks, 
 at least if you're in singleplayer mode. But tough, from a game made these days you would at least 
 expect a decent multiplayermode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game is the best dirt racing sim on the market currently.
  
  The Steering is a little wacky on the G25 Racing wheel but most games are untill you set it up 
 on the logitech software once I set the steering up on the wheel the game steers very nice.
  
  The Graphics Are Amazing but I dont reccomend to run this game in VISTA unless you want to 
 bog your machine down.
  
  The Sound is Very Good Also it seems to be very realistic.
  
  I reccomend to Run this game on windows Xp for the best preformance.
  
  The Graphics sound 
 and quality of the game is really amazing I really Reccomend this game to any one looking to have 
 fun and race on dirt.
  
  This game rocks for multiple cars and dirt Racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackal520
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  DiRT is one of those games that at first glance you wont be able to forget about. The environment 
 graphics, car models, and damage physics and just jaw dropping good. There are a few minor problems 
 in the game but nothing that wouldnt make you not love it, one of the minor problems is that on 
 a race with multiple cars the frame rate tends to dip but only for a little while other than that 
 i have no complaints. The career mode for DiRT is one that will keep you busy for a long time (you 
 can sort of compare it to Forza's career) it has you going up a huge pyramid of levels known as 
 tiers and in a tier are certain events that have to be completed to move on up the tiers. There 
 are many possibilities with this game and it will have you coming back to play it for sure even 
 after you beat the career mode and the world rally and the CORR modes. There are 46 cars in DiRT 
 which may sound like a small amount but it is pretty good for an off road racer with the amazing 
 graphics like this game. Now for the only disappointment with this game is multi-player. Multi-player 
 in DiRT consists of pretty much time trials when you cant actually see the cars youre racing against 
 but you must get from point A to point B before they do which is a real let down considering the 
 amount of potention this game has. Other than that DiRT is a game that will keep you busy for a 
 long time and it will appeal to all fans of racing sims and arcade racers enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medalofkoen
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  Because its released in the same month as Forza 2 on the Xbox360, there will be the urge to compare 
 these two race games. Is it really justified to do? Not really, because the race types are totally 
 different. Forza 2 is supposed to be a regular racing sim, while Dirt is a full- blooded rally 
 game. But still I would like to say that Dirt is a lot more fun.
  The obvious is that Dirt is an amazing graphical experience. I have never seen a more beautiful 
 racing game, neither on Xbox360 or PC. Ok, there is a little too much use of bloom effects, but 
 it is never irritating. The drawing distance is incredible, the textures are really detailed, the 
 car models are astonishing, partical effects are everywhere as it should be in a rally game. The 
 lighting gives it a realism that should be copied from now on in every racing game. Compared to 
 Forza 2, Dirt is a real next-gen experience. On the downside, there are quite a few hick-ups in 
 the frame rate on the Xbox360 and if you dont have a monster PC, you will see frame-drops more 
 than you would like. But should this be a negative? No, because nobody will have remarks about 
 low frame rates when playing the upcoming Crysis, because you know you can expect this if you dont 
 have the technology that meets the requirements.
  The gameplay is somehow different than you would expect. Its more arcade-like than simulation 
 and the handling of the cars is special in the way that we arent used to. But once you get the 
 hang of it, its a joy to play because it requires a lot of quick reflexes which keeps you on the 
 edge of your seats during an entire stage. The sense of speed is incredible and is going to provide 
 you with a lot of adrenalin rushes. Another big reason to check this game out, is the damage modelling. 
 I have never seen anything like it. If its not a big tree or a big rock or wall you are crashing 
 into, everything in the environment will bend or break. The cars can be destroyed in an extremely 
 detailed way, with windshields cracking and eventually being shattered, bits and pieces of your 
 car that can bend or simply be torn off. I call this the Crysis-moments of the game.
  Together with the different race types, a lot of different tracks and cars, a beautiful designed 
 pyramid structure which lets you into the game even when you are not a veteran racer, the gameplay 
 is some of the best I have experienced and is more exciting than the sometimes dull gameplay in 
 Forza 2.
  Ok, there isnt any real multiplayer in this game, but should every game be about multiplayer? 
 In conclusion, if you are looking for an adrenalin packed racer with the best graphics out there, 
 Dirt is the game you should be playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stif42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  Ok, first thing Dirt is an arcade game, it's not a simulation. If you want to play a real rally 
 game, then play Richard Burns Rally.
  
  In the other way, Dirt is really fun and provide a good balance between arcade and simulation game, 
 and even if you can't pimp you ride, you can partialy repair it after a big crash and this part 
 of the game is just cool.
  
  Physics are just great, you can lose many parts of your car, and graphics are just amazing, you 
 just need a war machine to play with high settings. Ultra high settings are for high end pc but 
 this next gen game need next gen computer to be really enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_doody_1999
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  im about to start my first race, the graphics are out of this world, it looks authentic as hell, 
 my engines reving up, im about to go, then this strong american accent says to me, nice and easy, 
 your mr nice and im mr easy i dont know wether hee's coming on to me or not, but i hit the gas 
 and away i go. with most mc rae games erring on the side of arcade and this time is no different, 
 just like the bad HDR, the physics here is over the top, youl be bouncing around all over the place, 
 steering controlls feel like their all or nothing, and you ricoshe around the course like a pinball.
 
  
  of course you can minimise this by actually being good at the game, but i dont think you could 
 ever get over it completely. so why do i like this game? well, the tracks are the most authentic 
 things ever, before all you had was a flat track and a bush or tree here or their to make you stear 
 arround it, this is no track its terain. you can be up on high driving on a ridge or in the middle 
 of a load of long grass constantly loosing the track, but it feels like a location not just an 
 imitated space. more variety has been added with new modes and theirs plenty of fun to be had, 
 as an owner of all the mcrae games id still put 4 up their as my favorite. they seam to have thrown 
 away half of the game though, theirs no weather as such, and rally without weather is pointless, 
 no variaty in rally location, no sweeden no snow its all gone, everything that l loved about it. 
 the rally mode is greatly reduced, and has been replaced with carear mode as the main stay of the 
 game, wich concists of single stages (without variety of location or weather they feel the same 
 ) so now it feels like theirs no real game, just single stupidly beautiful stages. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
