-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Disciples II: Dark Prophecy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/disciples2darkprophecy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 25, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.4, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 597 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Jan 22, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game's unique style and great gameplay, with its distilled strategic and tactical elements, 
 makes for a very enjoyable experience -- one that can last you for a very long time. 

 Fantasy settings are a dime a dozen in gaming -- things such as fire-breathing dragons and wizards 
 with flowing beards and pointy hats have long since become clichs. After all, despite how 
 many games take place in fantasy realms, very few of them -- for various reasons -- manage to use these 
 settings effectively. Yet the success of the recent film  The Lord of the Rings  is a reminder 
 that fantasy, when done right, can be cool. Disciples II: Dark Prophecy is further proof of this -- it's 
 one of those very rare computer games that draws on all the usual fantasy conventions but presents 
 them in truly inspired, artistic form. However, the visuals aren't the only good thing about Disciples 
 II. This turn-based strategy game, an overdue sequel to Strategy First's sleeper hit released back 
 in August of 1999, has an elegant simplicity about it.           The tactical combat in Disciples 
 II looks outstanding.    

  Disciples II takes place not long after the events of the original, and as such, the same four 
 factions are the focus. These include the Empire, a sect of mighty human warriors; the Mountain 
 Clans, a stalwart group of ancient dwarves; the Undead Hordes, restored to unnatural life thanks 
 to the twisted magic of their queen; and the Legions of the Damned, literally demons from hell. 
 The latter two perhaps sound more appealing, and to some extent they are, since it's always fun 
 to play as the bad guy -- especially bad guys as fearsome and evil as the undead and the demons of 
 Disciples II. But all the factions are equally appealing in their own right, and while they all 
 basically play the same way, each side has its own wide variety of great-looking, powerful units 
 for you to use.   

  It's easy to get started playing Disciples II, but no thanks to the sparse manual and well-hidden, 
 lackluster in-game tutorial. Like in the original, the core gameplay and mechanics of Disciples 
 II are superficially similar to those of New World Computing's popular Heroes of Might and Magic 
 series, since scenarios all take place on densely detailed isometric maps filled with treasure, 
 wandering monsters, and plenty of places to explore. The game's resolution is locked at 800x600, 
 and the maps are so concentrated that it can often be difficult to see some of their important 
 features -- for instance, you might overlook a powerful enemy squad that's practically in plain view. 
 A minimap is always onscreen to help give you a better sense of the surroundings, but the game's 
 fixed resolution keeps it from being particularly useful. However, you'll soon grow accustomed 
 to the cluttered appearance of the maps as you scour each one using small yet mighty squads led 
 by hero characters that you'll recruit from your castle.   

  You will spend little time building up your castle and will usually be occupied with more adventurous 
 things, such as exploring and battling your foes. Resource management is important but thankfully 
 simple. Each turn in Disciples II corresponds to a day of game time, and each passing day, the 
 land surrounding your castle or any towns you've captured expands to encompass any nearby resources. 
 These include gold that's used for buying new structures and items, as well as four different types 
 of mana that are used for casting various spells. You can tell when you're on the home turf of 
 any of the factions -- the Empire's lands are lush and green, the Mountain Clans' areas are covered 
 in snow, desolate wastelands are home to the Undead Hordes, and molten fissures in the earth are 
 the trademark of the Legions of the Damned.   

  Each day, you can build a new structure in your castle, most of which are used to unlock higher-level 
 versions of your units. You can't just recruit these -- you must earn them by gaining enough battlefield 
 experience with the basic unit. Your forces will engage in battles frequently, as most maps are 
 filled with hostiles and are well balanced to include plenty of weaker foes near your starting 
 location but much stronger foes farther out. Since all your units gain experience levels individually, 
 you'll have to learn to pick your battles carefully and make sure you can keep your forces alive 
 long enough to level up. This should all be familiar territory for Disciples players.          
  The richly detailed maps can take hours to fully explore.    

  In fact, aside from the completely redone graphics and sound, there aren't many immediately noticeable 
 differences between the sequel and the original. Just about every single unit from the first game 
 returns intact in the sequel, though you'll find that some unit balance issues have been fine-tuned. 
 The resource model is the same, spellcasting is the same (as are most all of the spells) , the role 
 of thief units is the same, and the ability to choose from three different leader classes remains 
 the same as well. That is, if you're familiar with Disciples, you'll be able to dive right into 
 the sequel.   

  If you're not, you may be wondering about those three leader classes. You can play as a warrior 
 lord, mage lord, or guildmaster lord -- respectively, these options predispose your forces to focusing 
 more on brute force, magic, or subterfuge. All the choices are viable -- the warrior lord is the 
 easiest route to take, the mage lord is strongest late in the game, and the guildmaster is the 
 most interesting of the three. Each faction has access to a thief unit capable of spying on his 
 foes, but as a guildmaster, your thieves will have exclusive access to various useful abilities. 
 They'll be able to assassinate weaker foes outright or make other covert actions like send counterfeit 
 orders to an enemy group, forcing it to rearrange in a random formation that might place its most 
 vulnerable units in the front line.    

 Despite the epic theme and style of Disciples II, you actually control a relatively small number 
 of units. Disciples II's battles between small yet powerful groups of characters give it more the 
 sense of a role-playing game than of a typical strategy game, as you'll become attached to your 
 individual units as they gradually gain experience and grow in power. You'll become attached to 
 them partly because leveling up your units requires a lot of care and effort, so you probably won't 
 have more than several heroes doing most of the work in any given scenario. You actually won't 
 have much choice, because once you've killed all those low-level creatures, they're gone for good -- any 
 new heroes you hire will be hard-pressed to find a fair fight. For better or worse, this means 
 you'll likely end up loading saved games a lot in Disciples II -- you can't afford to let your strongest 
 hero be killed in action. Loading saved games is painless, and a convenient auto-save feature makes 
 a record of your progress after every turn.           You'll live and die by the unit upgrade decisions 
 you make...    

  You don't gain experience levels often, but when you do, there's a big payoff -- so much that the 
 act of fighting monsters to gain experience becomes a very addictive part of the game. Your hero 
 will be able to learn a new skill of your choice, aside from becoming stronger and tougher. But 
 your other units will transform into brand-new units when they level up. For instance, an Imperial 
 squire will become a knight -- or alternately, a witch hunter, who has slightly fewer hit points 
 than the knight but is completely immune to fear and paralysis effects. There are multiple, mutually 
 exclusive upgrade options for each basic unit type -- once you've chosen one path over another, you've 
 committed yourself to that path through the duration of the scenario. Making these choices can 
 be tough, but it's part of the fun.   

  Almost all the new units in Disciples II are extremely strong high-level units -- units with suitable 
 names such as holy avenger, forge guardian, dracolich, and abyssal devil -- that broaden the branching 
 upgrade options for each faction. Each side now has about 30 different units in all. The new units 
 help make some of the oft-neglected units from Disciples much more viable, as there may be an enticing, 
 new unit upgrade to look forward to. Also, unlike the original, Disciples II doesn't have a restrictive 
 level cap, so even after you've fully upgraded your forces, you can keep gaining levels to further 
 improve their strength.   

  In general, combat in Disciples II is resolved quickly and uses extremely simple yet fun turn-based 
 mechanics, which offer tactical depth but also a healthy bit of randomness to keep fights from 
 being too predictable. Four difficulty settings are available, and at the default setting, the 
 computer makes a worthy, cunning opponent -- it will almost always fight smart and will focus its 
 wrath on your most important, most vulnerable, or most injured units. Controlling the action both 
 during and outside of combat is perfectly intuitive when you're using just the mouse -- you can always 
 right-click to bring up detailed information about whatever the cursor happens to be pointing at. 
   

  In Disciples, characters could either attack or skip their turn, and that was it. Disciples II 
 adds the ability to defend, which makes the unit take half the damage from any attacks until its 
 next turn, as well as the option for a unit to wait until the end of a round before acting. Furthermore, 
 hero units can now equip up to two different items before going into battle -- items like healing 
 potions or magical artifacts -- and can elect to use the equipped items during their turns. These 
 aren't drastic changes, but they help make Disciples II's combat system better than the first game's. 
 The new options aren't so complicated that they threaten the deliberate simplicity of the combat 
 system, but they do make the combat more tactical and more enjoyable.   

  The modes of play in Disciples II are the same as those in the first game. You'll be able to lead 
 any of the factions in its own lengthy "saga," a campaign comprising a number of linked scenarios 
 that collectively tell the game's story from four perspectives. The sagas are engaging and challenging, 
 but not especially flashy -- though narrated cinematic montages are used to introduce each new scenario, 
 the story unfolds merely through pop-up text during gameplay. Disciples II also offers about 20 
 stand-alone "quests," which are individual scenarios that can be played in any order.   

  A fully featured scenario editor is included with the game, and it lets you create your own maps, 
 custom units, and much more. It includes a relatively easy-to-use event trigger system that actually 
 lets you create rather complex cause-and-effect situations in your maps. Since Disciples II already 
 has a fan following, it's reasonably safe to expect a lot of good scenarios to come out of the 
 player community. Disciples II is ideally suited as a single-player game -- most of its numerous 
 scenarios can take hours to finish -- but multiplayer options are available. You can play against 
 fellow humans in a hot seat mode, over a LAN, or over the Internet.           ... you'll live and 
 die by powerful magic too.    

  Disciples II's gorgeous graphics are clearly a labor of love. The stylized, hand-painted portraits 
 of each unit are generally very well done, and many of the prerendered units you see during battle 
 are smoothly animated and very impressive. Great strategy games don't necessarily need great graphics -- but 
 Disciples II is evidence that great graphics never hurt; in fact, they really enrich the experience 
 here. The audio is generally good too, though some of the unit acknowledgements sound a bit awkward 
 and aren't quite as memorable as some of the stuff from the first game. On the other hand, the 
 musical score fits very well, subtly adding to the game's epic quality.   

  It's true that Disciples II doesn't really do much that hasn't been done before in other fantasy-themed 
 turn-based strategy games, particularly its own predecessor. Yet the game's unique style and great 
 gameplay, with its distilled strategic and tactical elements, makes for a very enjoyable experience -- one 
 that can last you for a very long time. If you were fortunate to have played the original Disciples, 
 you'll find the sequel to be similar but ultimately superior to the first. Meanwhile, those who 
 haven't played Disciples before, and even those who haven't played many turn-based strategy games 
 before, are likely to enjoy the accessible, attractive Disciples II at least as much as fans of 
 its predecessor will.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: orclv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  Disciples II: Dark Prophecy is a turn based strategy game in which you play the role of one of 
 four races struggling for survival and dominance of your war torn world. You will create armies 
 to conquer and control territory, hire powerful mages and warriors, develop your fledgeling cities, 
 and lead your race to glory. Using a careful balance of diplomacy, resource management, magic and 
 military might, you will strive to etch your name in long and bloody history of Nevendarr. 
  
  The strength of this game is the visuals, the characters are presented as painted shields, 
 and as excellent animation when engaged in battle. The artwork is both stunning and original, and 
 makes some of the tedious game play worthwhile. The game maps include the usual collection of towns 
 and villages, as well as castles and keeps, all the things that we have come to expect from the 
 fantasy genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TReamin
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Years ago i played a demo called "Disciples Sacred Lands", i never heard of the game and i always 
 bought pc magazines to check out new games or reviews, and that game was amazing and very addictive, 
 and in top of that it was only a demo... Just like Disciples 2, the game mechanics is very simple, 
 create a hero and buy characters to join your party, every character can turn into other character 
 when he reaches a superior level and that makes you create a party of diferent characters with 
 different abilities (range or close attacks) .
  The combat is very simple compared to Heroes of might and magic, just click and the unit will attack, 
 and of course, you can also use spells in combat, like any other fantasy game.
  At its time Disciples 2 was a very impressive game in graphics, gameplay, AI and sound effects.
 
  The replay value is amazing, i played this game for about 60hours, the single player was very 
 cool with very interesting missions, but there's also a map editor where you can create your own 
 map and that makes it even better.
  This game was well worth the money back in its time because it got me for so many hours that i 
 didn't need to buy other games, if you like fantasy based strategy games you are going to love 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thibbledorfP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:06 am PT
Review:  Disciples delivers an obviously well-planned, complex, atmospheric turn-based RPG that hits the 
 sweet spot. The game manages to avoid some of the pitfalls and chore-work of games in the genre, 
 and is extremely addicting, enough to merit a comparison to the Civilization series (which, FYI, 
 is very different in scope) . Disciples is quite similar in some key ways to the Heroes of Might 
 and Magic series. You start off with a base and a handful of units, as well as a hero. The size 
 of the army that can be carried with each hero depends on his/her/its Leadership score. Each turn 
 your cities will alter the surrounding landscape exponentially into your side's terrain type. Resource 
 nodes under your terrain contribute their goodies to you and yours. Rodbearer units can place rods 
 that spread your terrain away from your base, although this is risky and expensive.
  
  The story takes place in the land of Nevendaar, scarred by brutal war between the human Empire, 
 the dwarven Clans, the Undead Horde, the demonic Legion of the Damned and the Forest Elves. 
  A blessed Angel called Bethrezen was chosen by the Highfather to build the mortal world. Jealous 
 angel contemporaries turned the newly minted paradise of Nevendaar into a war-torn land, by injecting 
 corruptibility into the zealous, noble human race. The dwarves grew militaristic and avaricious, 
 attacking their old friends for gain. The elven Goddess Gallilean showed the elven propensity for 
 evil, burning innocent folk with the wrath of nature due to the loss of her beloved. Her followers 
 became Dark Elves, the leaders of the Undead Horde. The forest elves are capable of genocide and 
 heartless deeds, their natural arrogance turning into deadly suspicion; catalyzed by their suffering. 
 The former paragon of Heaven, Bethrezen was punished for the corrupting work of the other angels, 
 and his bitterness and rage spawned the Legion. Although the three mortal races seem naturally 
 opposed to the demons and undead, in Disciples any race can be a foe or a quick ally, and alliances 
 are as fragile as the paper they are written on. The narration and interesting dialogue snippets 
 you encounter during play really help advance the story.
  
  I am reviewing the original game and the Rise of the Elves expansion. The original game feature 
 four sagas and many missions, with the expansion adding one extra saga, more missions and a mission 
 generator. There is an incredible amount of value and time waiting to be well-spent on this game. 
 The sagas feature 7 or 8 long missions each, tied in with an interesting story, and classy movies. 
 Each mission can take you a good 3-5 hours. The missions are one-off scenarios with self-contained 
 objectives, and the random mission generator achieves what it aims to do. Hotseat and modem games 
 are availabe if you wish to cross steel and spell with a friend.
  
  The meat of the game involves exploring the map with a hero and a handful of units, battling enemies 
 to gain experience and level up your units. Enabling upgrades requires you to build the appropriate 
 building in your capital. Units and heroes become increasingly valuable as they level up, and every 
 mission requires one hero with high level minions to face the final threat. There is no unit stacking, 
 one unit space is one unit; allowing for some tougher units take take two squares. Maps are filled 
 with shops, resources and neutral critters as well as your enemies and possible allies. Maps are 
 not bigger than they have to be. Some unit abilities such as paralysis seem imperfeclty balanced 
 and can sometimes be a little bit irritating. There are very rare instances of trial and error, 
 such as knowing when you are tough enough to venture into a certain region. The menu interface 
 is efficient but not perfect, pressing the back button brings you back to the main menu; instead 
 of one stage back. This is noticable when exploring options and the available missions.
  
  Overall, Disciples is streamlined in that the amount of time you spend micromanaging armies is 
 reduced, as is travel times. The seemingly simple strategy is actually very deep, as the interesting 
 paths you can develop your units through; have major impacts on gameplay. The synergy between your 
 different units is hard to master; especially when choosing your heros abilities. Espionage, diplomacy 
 and spells play a part in the game, as will be mentioned below. Your capital city is as good as 
 impregnable for most of the game, due to a very powerful Guardian unit. This eliminates the possibility 
 of being eliminated due to exploring, although normal cities have no embedded Guardians and can 
 be captured. Cities can heal and revive units, as well as providing a nice defensive bonus. 
  
  The game requires you to choose a Lord before the game begins. This lord essentially represents 
 you as the mouse-clicker, not existing as a unit in game. You can choose Warrior, Mage or Guildmaster. 
 The Warrior gives armies an extra 15% health regeneration per day, the Mage gives bonuses to casting 
 spells, and the Guildmaster gives extra espionage options with your theif units. Although the Guildmaster 
 is interesting, the Warrior and the Mage are normally more useful. The basic thief functions available 
 to all Lords such as Poison and Inflitrate are very useful atleast once or twice each mission. 
 The choice of Lord allows more interesting synergy decisions when commanding your armies.
  
  The graphical design for the game is amazing, although keep in mind the technology is very 
 old by this point. The baroque, detailed portraits of units are superb, giving a real gravitas 
 to the proceedings. A noble, hardened paladin; a fierce unholy devil; the pictures portray these 
 icons in a heroic and respectful way. The map graphics are nothing special, but are very well designed 
 and richly detailed. Combat animations and city-scape graphics are grand and energetic. Movies 
 in this game are extremely well-made, with a good mix of moving images and real animation.
  
  The sound is competent, above average but not spectacular narration; very natural sounding 
 in-game acknowledgements, great sweeping music and apt sound effects. There is a lack of any very 
 annoying menu or ability sound effect that sometimes slips through developer's notice, and that 
 is a nice thing.
  
  The makers of Disciples obviously sought to make a turn-based RPG with consistent quality, and 
 a focus on the sweet spots of decision making and exploration. The result is a very addictive game 
 with few frustrations. I played for hours on different occasions, experiencing the 'just one more 
 turn' effect seen in Sid Meier's game franchise Civilization. The game manages to offer short and 
 long term satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L-Mor
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Disciples 2 is a very addictive and interesting game to play. Overall it's one of the best turn-based 
 strategies.
  
  Game is designed with care and attention to details - from the start menu to the actual game play. 
 Disciples 2 has very impressive and unique artwork along with detailed effects, which makes the 
 game playable even today. Creepy sounds, music and environment produces a dark and simply amazing 
 atmosphere.
  
  About the actual game play - it's similar to games like Heroes of Might and Magic with a few twists. 
 The game has 4 playable races (5 if you have Rise of the Elves) . All of them have unique heroes, 
 magics and units. You control a hero who travels with up to 5 additional units ranging from dragons, 
 archers, wizards, cavalry, etc... Unlike in HoMM you don't need to buy new units every week from 
 your castle, instead your units gain experiences from combat and evolve into better versions on 
 the spot. This enables you to travel around without having to worry about replenishing your troops. 
 The resources system is easy and quick to learn.
  
  If you liked games such as Heroes of Might and Magic or turn-based strategies in general then you 
 owe it to yourself to try out Disciples 2. Even tho the game is old you will be surprised how playable 
 it still is. Having said that, there is also Disciples 3 around the corner which makes an excellent 
 time to visit it's predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KinsmanFrederik
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  The vast majority of gamers surely know Heroes of Might and Magic games series. But Disciples II 
 is better. 
  The major gaming concept remains: we still wander through maps in turns, we still maintain cities, 
 we still buy buildings to recruit new types of units, get access to some powerful and useful magic 
 and receive more money daily, we still develop our character from mission to mission by fighting 
 opponents and finding and applying artifacts. oh, yes, we still do have more than one resource 
 (gold) to extract from Mother Earth. This ends the similarities. Now - differences.
  The fights ( this is my favourite aspect of the game) are completely turn - based, where maximum 
 of six fighters including Hero fight against maximum of six enemy fighters. Compared to Heroes, 
 fighters can't move during battle. These battles look great. The graphics during battles is outstanding 
 and unit design is brilliant. Also, you can't have stronger unit without actually involving him 
 in fights because units also get experience from battles and when they reach a new level and the 
 required building in capital is built, your unit transforms into stronger version.
  The system of gaining the resources is unique. You have to recruit a special unit who stabs the 
 banner of particular race in the ground and this resource source (silly word combination) is captured. 
 Soon the ground around it os transformed into grass, lava fields, snow or black desert, depending 
 on the race you are playing with.
  I got a lot of pleasure from this game. heroes V is also a great game (I am a fan of TBS) , but 
 something lacks. I hope that Disciples III will turn out to be as great as Disciples II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  I got this from a Fantasy 6 pack so it was good value for me. It comes with both expansions too, 
 so triple the fun. If you like Heroes of Might and Magic III or any of the Heroes series, definitely 
 give this a try. Though it is the same turn-based strategy genre, it presents quite a new refreshing 
 gameplay approach that needs a bit of time to adjust to if you are very used to HoMM. Read the 
 official review for the actual gameplay elements cos it's really difficult for me to put it in 
 words. But trust me, once you get to know the works better, get ready to throw yourself into another 
 barrage of pc hogging nights.
  
  It is very addictive if you are into turn-based fantasy games. Hero developments and building options 
 are strong factors in the game and the progressive order in which you get exposed to new units 
 and new combinations is a miraculous fun journey. The art of Disciples II is also one reason why 
 it appeals to me. It has a very distinct and enigmatic Masqueradian look that is quite indie yet 
 detailed.
  
  Moreover, given that it has 4 very distinct and interesting factions, namely the Empire (humans) , 
 Mountain Clans (dwarves) , Legions of the Damned (demons) and Undead Hordes (er... undead) , I find myself 
 unwilling to put the game down till I managed to unlock every unit from every race. There is simply 
 no stopping once you start your first game, and every mission map offers new playing strategies, 
 so you can't get bored with it.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makensha
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Disciples 2 is a game that keeps with a certain crowd, but no one else. If you like Turn based 
 RPGs, buy this game immeadietly. However, for everyone else, don't bother. The game has a lot of 
 gameplay in it, and will keep getting more interesting as you play more. You'll come upon four 
 diiferent story lines depending on which race you choose. Each one has a long, complicated plot, 
 that ties into the other three. The gameplay is simple enough, but has enough depth that Rpgers 
 will like it. The music is decent, but nothing special. If you like Rpgs, (and I don't mean TES: 
 Oblivion) you'll like this game. As for everyone else, spend your money elswhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  Your thief sneaks into the city, poisoning the water supply. On the march are your armies, battle-worn 
 veterans with the experience to destroy all manner of beasts that lie before them. This product 
  as you can imagine from the title  is the second in the series, and comes three years after 
 the release of the first game. Not only does it sport depth (and it should be noted that this game 
 borrows liberally from other games  in terms of beasts and missions) , but also it manages to provide 
 a freshness that will draw players quickly into the game play. The setting is Nevendaar, 10 years 
 after the First Great Wars devastated the lands. The gates of Hell have been sealed, and the four 
 races have staggered, bloody but victorious to their respective homes. They are greeted by ruins, 
 for the war has savaged the land. The History of Nevendaar. The four races are the Empire, the 
 Mountain Clans, the Legions of the Damned and the Undead Horde. The goal is simple: take a devastated 
 people and rebuild the clan to the glory of the previous ages. Of course, you will have to fend 
 off invaders, decide when diplomacy is the best course, or when to send in covert operatives (thieves) 
 to create havoc and mayhem, and when to march your army to confront those who would stand against 
 you. Like a lot of games in this genre, you have to make advances to your city, build it up with 
 temples, stables, monasteries, and do the magical research to enable your units to move from basic 
 to advanced stature. How you organize your units can make a big difference between victory and 
 defeat. The arch-angel isnt much in a fight, but if you bring her along behind your units, she 
 can use her move points, and spend a little money, to plant flags and claim areas for your kingdom. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wuzgar
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Disciples I had a potential. Dark fantasy settings which were a nice alternative to the slightly 
 fairy tale-ish world of Heroes of Might and Magic. Different but nice combat system, and the awesome 
 artwork. The game however suffered from number of problems, poor graphics (didn't bother me) , dull 
 engagements with the enemy, shallow economic side of the game, lack of diversity on the map and 
 above all F###ed up concept of the Game. All the scenarios, be it the campaign mission, skirmish 
 or even multi (can't recall if the game had any) were reduced to a plain formula of capture some 
 building/slay a beast/ capture a neutral city. Annihilating the enemy was not possible because 
 of annoying as sheit invincible "Capitol guardians" that couldn't be removed by any means. 
  Having this in mind i expected great things from number 2. Sadly most of the weak point of the 
 game remained. While the graphics improved quite, new units were added, the guardians remained, 
 economy did not change at all and the same feeling of emptiness remained. The game concept still 
 remains the same. Make an army, level them up a bit on the never-dying opposite faction until they 
 are strong enough to take on the objective city/party/monster. For shame
  Overall the game is not bad at all. It just lacks the complexity of the more successful Heroes 
 of Might and Magic or even Age of Wonders alternatives to make the gamer stick for longer. So if 
 you are new to the series you could probably have a good time for about 20 hours or so discovering 
 the whole game, but once its over you won't reach for it again. Players having already experienced 
 the first game, not noticing any significant changes will not find anything interesting here. 
 
  Decent game for a couple of evenings but nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notylek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  After playing HOM&M my first contact with disciples was kinda negative.
  Menus, design etc.
  But after 2 hours with it this game addicted me!
  I like that dark design of DII, it's really 
 good, makes great atmosphere.
  Races are great created, when we play undead, we almost feel the stench of undead warriors, and when 
 we playing mountain clans we can authentically fell cold!
  The atmposhere of game is soooo amazing.
  Almost whole game is perfect, but i don't like that 
 characters don't walk during the battle, but i think it's low price to pay for so long gameplay.:)
 
  
  HOM&M wins with D II only a little bit, but D II is great alternative when we're tired of HOM&M 
 :)
  If buy this game it'll give hundreds of great gaming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ugly_gee
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  i saw someone had given a very low score
  i think it's the same person who gave a 4 on HOMM :) )
  ok maybe for a shooter fan it doesn't 
 look appealing but if if u like TBS RPG it's 100% guaranteed satisfaction
  
  in my opinion it's an equal to the heroes of might an magic series and i played it for a long time
 
  graphics are exquisite, sound it's good
  system requirements are not demanding
  i don't really remember any bad thing about this game
  i really hope that disciples will be a 
 better game than 2 because i'll give an A+
  i think this is a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  the graphics are good but what is so boring is that the game gives to much quest and to much mission 
 which at certain times may get boring ok sure the graphics are awesome but the gameplay is boring 
 if it were to be cops 2170 it might be better the map dosent really give a golbal lanndscape and 
 the elves are very mono and so as the demons from the "hordes of the dam" are also mono the spells 
 are good but the mission take to long and long i mean this kind of TTBST, Tactical-TurnBased STrategy, is 
 to hard to be played since i think that game like this isnt ment to be for RTS that are from strategy 
 first.
  Since whats the commotion about the game its so lame man i just cant take it since i sold it away 
 at $9 i spend it on a piece of candy hey the candy was better than that peice of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  A wonderful blend of turn-based-strategy mixed with role-playing elements. The graphics and artwork 
 are breathtaking, easy to look at even after hours of gameplay. The settings during the combat 
 scenes are beautiful and intricate, and reflect perfectly your location on the adventure map. Combat 
 seems deceivingly simple, and therefore it is quite interesting how making a good (or bad) move, 
 or how a little good (or bad) luck can cause a drastic shift in the outcome.
  
  The campaigns are superior to any turn-based strategy game I have played thus far. While Heroes 
 III remains my all-time favorite game, I never completed a single campaign in that game, preferring 
 instead to play large individual maps. With Disciples II, I actually prefer the campaigns (or Sagas, 
 as they are called) to the single-map quests.
  
  Gameplay itself is an addictive formula that will remain attractive, hour after hour after hour.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Disciples II: Dark Prophecy is a marvelous strategy game that follows the gameplay of games like 
 Age of Wonders and Heroes of Might and Magic. 
  
  The Graphics and Sound are great. The overview map has a great landscape, ranging from snow to 
 lava. In general, the overview map does a great job of giving the game a great feel, while not 
 being too distracting. However, the battles are where the graphics truly shine. Numerous characters 
 from 4 different races, all with different upgrades have great animations, and great effects for 
 attacks. Look at some screenshots if you want to see just how good they are. 
  
  The game plays similar to other games like Age of Wonders and Heroes. You create different heroes 
 which have different skills and can only lead a certain amount of people (0-5) , and then send them 
 out to conquer land, take over resources, explore, then complete whatever mission you were assigned. 
 The game is turn based of course, and really the only complaint about it that can be made is that 
 sometimes the enemies turns take forever. Naturaly if you hate turn based games, you're not going 
 to enjoy this game. 
  
  As with most strategy games nowadays, most things can be upgraded. You're starting base can have 
 numerous buildings added on, which will allow you to build different type of units and upgrade 
 other units (when they reach the next level) , as well as buildings that offer you new abilities 
 (healing, spells) . All of your units can be leveled. Normal units sometimes have new abilities 
 but usually it's just a hit point increase and a damage increase (or whatever their major abilities 
 are) . Heroes, in addition, gain a new ability, such as farther walking difference, can have more 
 followers, and use more items. 
  
  I really can't tell you how much I enjoyed this game, despite the fact I rated it an 8. It does 
 get kind of boring after awhile, but for the most part, it is a truly enjoyable strategy game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 7, 2003 4:14 am PT
Review:  An interesting take on the trusty "Heroes of Might and Magic" formula.
  
  I came across Disciples 2 for $10 in the bargain bin, and I saw that it was being compared to one 
 of my favorite computer games "Heroes of Might and Magic IV", and so I decided to give it a try.
 
  
  After spending quite some time with it now, I can say that while it looks great, and it definitely 
 has that special "Just-One-More-Turn" addicting behavior of HOMM4, the major problem that becomes 
 clear only after spending some hours with it, is the underlying game mechanics are just too frustratingly 
 difficult (even on Easy) with too much micro-management time, and this ultimately becomes very 
 boring and like work, instead of being the fun game I want to spend some time with. I play these 
 type of games for the fun of searching the map to find new and interesting things to explore and 
 do, and not to care too much about the accounting of spells and resouces and characters.
  
  The Good: The graphics and animations are terrific (a little low-res) , the sounds are good if not 
 very memorable. Has the just-one-more-turn addiction.
  
  The Bad: The interface is a mess with buttons and groupings made seemingly at random. Very hard 
 to make out units and items on the map, everything blurs together sometimes. (I like the colorful 
 HOMM4 maps much more than these dark ones) . The Manual is not very good and doesn't really tell 
 you how to play or what you should be doing to win.
  
  The Ugly: The underlying gameplay of trying not to get your starting units killed thru the whole 
 game because even after you have upgraded structures, your units still always start off as beginners, 
 which does make sense, but also makes for boring gameplay as you constantly have to rush home to 
 be cured and many re-loading saves after you die. Also the "auto-save" feature saves your game 
 at the END of your turn, not the beginning, which makes no sense. Just way too many things to micro-manage 
 during each turn. Also once you give a mouse-click order to your unit, there is no way to cancel 
 your order (at least I could find it) , even if you made it in error which is VERY FRUSTRATING and 
 leads to re-loading saved games a LOT! 
  
  Suggestion: I hate to say it, but the game was a LOT more fun for me after I started using the 
 cheats for 9,999 gold/resources, and I didn't have to waste my time micro-managing the way too 
 generic resources.
  
  Summary: If you can find it for $10, then check it out if you like HOMM type turn based games because 
 it offers some interesting ideas to the HOMM formula. I definitly got my money's worth and will 
 continue playing it alongside HOMM4 even with all the issues mentioned.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2003 10:26 pm PT
Review:  If you at all in to fantasy type games then D2 is a must. The graphics are really sharp and some 
 scenes look like someone has painted them, very nice. The storyline for the sagas is very good 
 and keeps you guessing as to what will happen next. Sound is a nice touch and you can even add 
 your own mp3's to the playlist. Combat is fairly good though the computer isn't terribly smart. 
 In d2 the high level units is what you need to aim for, having lots of low level units means nothing. 
 Which is what the computer uses, so generally you'll find your small group of high level warriors 
 decimating all they come across with hardly a challenge. Another negative is that this game was 
 poorly marketed, I had trouble finding it in any store so the publisher really hurt the sales of 
 this game, it really deserved more publicity. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
