-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Disciples II: Guardians of the Light
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/disciples2guardiansotl/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 18, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.6, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 115 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Jun 14, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This expansion is a reasonably good deal, but it's best suited for the hard-core Disciples II fan 
 who wishes to play every single official scenario for the game. 

  Though you can find plenty of fantasy-themed turn-based strategy games on the shelves, last year's 
 Disciples II is still one of the most distinctive and one of the best. Featuring some unusually 
 detailed and stylized artwork, the game also incorporates many role-playing elements to lend continuity 
 and an epic feel to its campaigns. Now, about eighteen months after its release, Disciples II finally 
 gets a well-deserved expansion pack. Two, actually, since Guardians of the Light is being closely 
 followed by the similarly styled  Servants of the Dark  expansion. However, Guardians of the Light 
 isn't very substantial. It's halfway suited to new Disciples II players, who could just as well 
 pick up a dirt-cheap copy of Disciples II from their local bargain bin, and it's halfway suited 
 to experienced Disciples II players who would probably expect more from this add-on than what its 
 dozen-odd skirmish maps and two high-level mini-campaigns provide.  

          You can only play as the human and dwarf factions in this stand-alone expansion pack.  
    

  The Guardians of the Light expansion only lets you play as the good-aligned factions of Disciples 
 II: the Empire and the Mountain Clans. The Undead Horde and the Legions of the Damned, Disciples 
 II's evil factions, are still present as adversaries, but cannot be controlled directly. As you'd 
 expect, the Servants of the Dark expansion is the exact opposite. This is a strange design that 
 simply limits the appeal of both games, since one of the great things about Disciples II was in 
 how you could play from the perspective of four dramatically different and uniquely powerful sides. 

  This add-on actually contains the complete original Disciples II campaigns for both the Empire 
 and the Mountain Clans. That's a lot of content for players new to the series, though again, they 
 might as well just look for the original game since it's even cheaper now than this budget-priced 
 expansion pack. Meanwhile, those who already own Disciples II have already seen this stuff.  

 
  The main reason the original campaigns are in here is because the new high-level campaigns may 
 only be played if you have a leader character of 10th level or higher. So unless you've finished 
 the original campaigns and still have the saved data on your hard drive, unless you've downloaded 
 someone else's saved game, or unless you happen to look down in the game's readme file to find 
 the clause about how some high-level leaders are hidden on one of the game discs' directories, 
 this means you'll need to play through the original campaigns before you can get to the new content. 
 The scenarios comprising the two new mini campaigns are very challenging and filled with little 
 scripted events, so they're good as Disciples II missions go. They let you fight with and against 
 many of the game's most powerful units, which were a relatively rare sight in the original.  

 
  Other than that, Guardians of the Light offers 15 new stand-alone scenarios, though in keeping 
 with the theme, these only let you play as the good-aligned factions (unless you also end up buying 
 the Servants of the Dark expansion) . These new missions essentially are more of what Disciples 
 II fans have come to expect from the game, and aren't noticeably better or different from the scenarios 
 that shipped with the original game more than a year ago.  

  Guardians of the Light looks identical to Disciples II, which looked superb when it was originally 
 released, but was limited to 800x600 resolution. However, the expansion supports resolutions up 
 to 1280x1024 for the map screen, and you can also choose to have the graphics for the menus and 
 combat stretch to fill the screen in the higher resolution modes, which helps keep the visuals 
 looking fresh. The character art and combat still looks great after all these months, but it can 
 still be difficult to spot enemy units or key features on the overhead map. A few new characters 
 have been added and the graphics for the Empire's and the Mountain Clans' capital buildings have 
 been redone, but these are minor details. Disciples II's audio has held up fine, and to its credit, 
 Guardians of the Light adds some good, new music tracks to the mix. There's no new voiceover for 
 the missions, however. But there is a sort of multimedia gallery that lets you look at some of 
 the artwork from the game, if that's any consolation.  

          Though Guardians of the Light is budget-priced, it doesn't offer much that wasn't in the 
 original game, and the original is even cheaper now.     

  This expansion also features some gameplay enhancements over the original release of Disciples 
 II, which have been available already via free downloadable patches. You can auto-resolve combat 
 if you don't want to sit through the lengthy animations in a battle that's a sure-fire victory 
 (or defeat) , and the AI of the game handles alliances and certain other situations more capably. 
 Disciples II was a notoriously difficult game, but now the "easy" setting is considerably more 
 manageable. Guardians of the Light also includes the Disciples II scenario editor, allowing players 
 to put together their very own maps and quests. The box advertises a "random map generator," one 
 of the most-wanted features from the original Disciples II, but this is really just a way to quickly 
 create some terrain for a custom map and populate it with monsters and treasure. You'll need to 
 actually tune and balance the map yourself, and since the scenario editor is a separate executable 
 from the actual game, this random map generator really isn't practical for the average player. 

  Disciples II is still a great game at its core. The highly streamlined combat and the memorable 
 units and factions still make for some entertaining and addictive gameplay. As such, the Guardians 
 of the Light expansion is partly suited just as a reminder for you to go back and play some more 
 Disciples II, or pick up a cheap copy if you missed out on it. On its own merits, this expansion 
 is a reasonably good deal, but it's best suited for the hard-core Disciples II fan who wishes to 
 play every single official scenario for the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This Good Guys only expansion to the underdog turn-based strategy gem provides a fairly mild excitement 
 even for hardcore fans of the genre. It features a campaign of 3 large scenarios each for the two 
 protagonist factions, totalling just six scenarios. Well yes, when I mean large, it is mega compared 
 to the original game's ones. The downside is that there are no new stuff to accompany that. No 
 new creatures, skills, magic, nor even items. Boring.
  
  You can import your main hero from the original game into this one who has to be of high enough 
 level (level 15 above) in order to not get trashed by the ridiculous number of high level enemy 
 creatures scattered around the map. Though it is really fun to pit your prized champion against 
 the entire map which translates to tons of experience points and shooting up levels, but guess 
 what?! Your hero will never gain any experience points in the expansion game! Whose bloody idea 
 is that? Well your other creatures could though, given the high level critters that you'll fight, 
 and some may even reach level 99, but they can never be brought to the next scenario.
  
  Nevertheless, it is still a guilty pleasure if you see it as a personal killing spree campaign. 
 Perhaps only the hardcore Disciples fans like me may get to enjoy this otherwise flawed expansion 
 to a great game.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
