-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Disciples II: Servants of the Dark
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/disciples2servantsoftd/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 16, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.9, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 119 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Jun 30, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you already know about the strengths and weaknesses of the previous Disciples II add-on, then 
 Servants of the Dark will be exactly what you expect. 

  Though you can find plenty of fantasy-themed turn-based strategy games on the shelves, last year's 
 Disciples II is still one of the most distinctive and one of the best. Featuring some unusually 
 detailed and stylized artwork, the game also incorporates many role-playing elements to lend continuity 
 and an epic feel to its campaigns. Now, about 18 months after its release, Disciples II finally 
 gets a well-deserved expansion pack. Two, actually, since Servants of the Dark is an immediate 
 follow-up to the very similar  Guardians of the Light  expansion. If you already know about the 
 strengths and weaknesses of the previous Disciples II add-on, then Servants of the Dark will be 
 exactly what you expect.  

          You can only play as the demon and undead factions in this stand-alone expansion pack. 
     

  Like Guardians, Servants of the Dark isn't very substantial. It's halfway suited to new Disciples 
 II players, who could just as well pick up a dirt-cheap copy of Disciples II from their local bargain 
 bin, and it's halfway suited to experienced Disciples II players, who would probably expect more 
 from this add-on than what its dozen-odd skirmish maps and two high-level minicampaigns provide. 

  The Servants of the Dark expansion only lets you play as the evil-aligned factions of Disciples 
 II: the Undead Hordes and the Legions of the Damned. The Empire and the Mountain Clans, Disciples 
 II's good factions, are still present as adversaries but cannot be controlled directly. And the 
 recently released Guardians of the Light expansion was the exact opposite. This is a strange design 
 that simply limits the appeal of both games, since one of the great things about Disciples II was 
 how you could play from the perspective of four dramatically different and uniquely powerful sides. 

  This add-on actually contains the complete original Disciples II campaigns for both the Undead 
 Horde and the Legions of the Damned. That's a lot of content for players new to the series, though 
 again, they might as well just look for the original game since it's even cheaper now than this 
 budget-priced expansion pack. Meanwhile, those who already own Disciples II have already seen this 
 stuff.  

  The main reason the original campaigns are in here is that the new high-level campaigns may only 
 be played if you have a leader character of 10th level or higher. So unless you've finished the 
 original campaigns and still have the saved data on your hard drive, unless you've downloaded someone 
 else's saved game, or unless you happen to look down in the game's readme file to find the clause 
 about how some high-level leaders are hidden on one of the game discs' directories, you'll need 
 to play through the original campaigns before you can get to the new content. The scenarios composing 
 the two new minicampaigns are very challenging and filled with little scripted events, so they're 
 good as Disciples II missions go. They let you fight with and against many of the game's most powerful 
 units, which were a relatively rare sight in the original.  

  Other than that, Servants of the Dark offers more than a dozen new stand-alone scenarios, though 
 in keeping with the theme, these only let you play as the evil-aligned factions (unless you also 
 have the Guardians of the Light expansion) . These new missions essentially are more of what Disciples 
 II fans have come to expect from the game and aren't noticeably better than or different from the 
 scenarios that shipped with the original game more than a year ago.  

  Servants of the Dark looks identical to Disciples II, which looked superb when it was originally 
 released, but it was limited to 800x600 resolution. However, the expansion supports resolutions 
 up to 1280x1024 for the map screen, and you can also choose to have the graphics for the menus 
 and combat stretch to fill the screen in the higher-resolution modes, which helps keep the visuals 
 looking fresh. The character art and combat still look great after all these months, but it can 
 still be difficult to spot enemy units or key features on the overhead map. A few new characters 
 have been added, and the graphics for the Undead's and the Legions' capital buildings have been 
 redone, but these are minor details. Disciples II's audio has held up fine, and to its credit, 
 Servants of the Dark contains some good, new music tracks (though they're the same ones as in Guardians 
 of the Light) . There's also a sort of multimedia gallery that lets you look at some of the artwork 
 from the game, if that's any consolation.  

          Though Servants of the Dark is budget-priced, it doesn't offer much that wasn't in the 
 original game, and the original is even cheaper now.     

  This expansion also features some gameplay enhancements over the original release of Disciples 
 II, which are available already via free downloadable patches. You can auto-resolve combat if you 
 don't want to sit through the lengthy animations in a battle that's a surefire victory (or defeat) , 
 and the AI of the game handles alliances and certain other situations more capably. Disciples II 
 was a notoriously difficult game, but now the "easy" setting makes it considerably more manageable. 
 Servants of the Dark also includes the Disciples II scenario editor, which allows you to put together 
 your very own maps and quests. The box advertises a "random map generator," one of the most-wanted 
 features from the original Disciples II, but this is really just a way to quickly create some terrain 
 for a custom map and populate it with monsters and treasure. You'll need to tune and balance the 
 map yourself, and since the scenario editor is a separate executable from the actual game, this 
 random map generator really isn't practical for the average player.  

  Disciples II is still a great game at its core. The highly streamlined combat and the memorable 
 units and factions still make for some entertaining and addictive gameplay. As such, the Servants 
 of the Dark expansion is partly suited just as a reminder for you to go back and play some more 
 Disciples II, or pick up a cheap copy if you missed out on it. On its own merits, this expansion 
 is a reasonably good deal, but it's best suited for the hard-core Disciples II fan who wishes to 
 play every single official scenario for the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This Bad Guys only installment to the world of Disciples II brings exactly the same thing you encountered 
 in its previous expansion, Guardians of the Light. That means, 6 mega maps in total, no new stuff, 
 no level gaining for your imported hero and hardcore map clearing.
  
  However, people who played the original Disciples know that the Legion and the Hordes have most 
 of the powerful creatures compared to the good guys faction, but requires too many experience points 
 to realise it. So in this case, fans will get to appreciate the true power of the dark side in 
 this otherwise uninspired game.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f00
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 19, 2004 6:23 am PT
Review:  I don't know how this compares to the other games in the series as this is the first I purchased. 
 I found it at an EBGames for $10.
  
  First off, the turn-based strategy format seems to be a fading game type. Here it is in its full 
 glory and is truly a style for the serious gamer. There is a simplicity in its presentation that 
 quickly leads to very deep levels of strategy. 
  
  On the other hand, you could also not think things through much and just keep reloading until something 
 goes your way.
  
  The artwork is wonderful. The Gamespot review notes it as a labor of love and I definitely have 
 to agree. I'm not one for flashy graphics if there's nothing to it, but throw in something that 
 looks like someone's put their heart into it and I'm all over it. The dark themes and powerful 
 characters make for a great place to lose yourself for hours.
  
  Now in comparing the game, the only one I've played before that seems similar is Heroes of Might 
 and Magic. That game did not appeal to me at all. It's hard to describe what the difference is, 
 perhaps the artwork or perhaps the interface. Whatever it is, if you did not like Heroes, I would 
 still try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 2, 2004 7:21 pm PT
Review:  If you played the first game then you'll know what to expect. Graphics are flawless and the sound 
 is quite fitting for the game. The only thing I didn't like was splitting this game up into 2 expansions, 
 and now a third one with the elves. It just means in the end it costs alot more, as the first two 
 were released close enough together that they could have combined them. Anyway back to the game, 
 I really enjoyed taking my main character and continuing their quest and revealing more of the 
 story. The expansions are alot more difficult than the original and so provide more of an interesting 
 challange. I did find some battles practically impossible if you chose the wrong characters to 
 have in your team though. The only thing I rated low was the replayability, because there's not 
 really much reason to go through the game a second time, and multiplayer is practically non-existant 
 due to the fact that there is not many people playing. There's also too many different "cheese" 
 tactics that can be used to exploit the average AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyRamon
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 27, 2004 11:41 am PT
Review:  I've loved the Disciples series since I bought Disciples Gold back in 2001, and I purchased Disciples 
 2 the day it was released, something I'm hesitant to do on account of a general tendency in the 
 industry to release incomplete games; however, I make an exception for game franchises I really 
 like, and that applies to Strategy First's Disciples series. 
  I'd finished all 4 campaigns in Disciples 2 sometime last year, and on account of news that some 
 expansion packs were forthcoming did I let the game take up valuable hard drive space so that I 
 could import my high-level characters. Then, recently, I bought Servants of the Dark, and not until 
 after I installed it did I realize that it completely removed all vestiges, including saved games 
 and characters, of the Disciples 2 program! I love the game, but I'm not about to play through 
 the original campaigns again just so that I could import them. The available high-level heroes 
 the Gamespot reviewer mentioned are indeed tucked away in an obscure directory, and the process 
 of copying them to an accessible folder is far from user friendly. The option to browse directories 
 from within the game and its hero selection option would have been nice. My review would be far 
 more favorable had Strategy First implemented these two ease-of-interface essentials. I certainly 
 don't remember consenting to wiping out the original Disciples 2 files, saved games and all, during 
 my installation of this expansion. Here's hoping that Strategy First will be a bit more perceptive 
 when it's time to release Disciples 3 and its expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csm101
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 12, 2003 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Disciples II still as great as ever!
  When Disciples II: Dark Prophecy came out last year, it was an incredible game, with awesome graphics, 
 great game play and an engaging story line. But it was poorly advertised, and fell in the shadow 
 of Warcraft III, and so was in the "best game nobody played" category.
  Now, a year and a half later, come the first expansion packs, "Guardians of the Light" and "Servants 
 of the Dark". The graphics are just as good now as they were then, only better with the introduction 
 of up to 1280 x 1024 resolution. Sound is decent as well, although much of it is re-used from DII.
 
  The single player "mini-campaigns" are nicely done, if a bit short. The excellent narrator from 
 Dark Prophecy is unfortunately missing in action; surely they could have hired him back to say 
 a few more lines? But these are minor complaints. A nice touch is that the complete original game 
 was included for those who never played DII the first time around. The tutorial gets the job done, 
 and the new multi-player maps and random map generator are both welcome additions. Sadly though, 
 there is still no skirmish mode for single-player. The decision to split the game into 2 parts 
 is odd; why it was not released as a single expansion is strange, especially since when both x-packs 
 are installed, they are combined into a single game again anyway. Had the game been released as 
 one x-pack for say, $29.99 instead of 2 @ $19.99 each, it would have been a much better value, 
 and is why my review was not higher in that area.
  Still and all though, if you haven't yet played Disciples II, get both expansions, and even if 
 you have played, IMO they're worth having.. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
