-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Discworld II: Mortality Bytes!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/discworld2mortalitybytes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 8.1, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 158 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Psygnosis
Developer: Perfect Ent.
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 30, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Psygnosis has done a beautiful job of bringing Pratchett's entertaining world to the realm of electronic 
 gaming. 

 Terry Pratchett, the British master of humor-fantasy-fiction, has written 18 novels in the Discworld 
 series (most recently, Feet of Clay published by HarperPrism) , and Psygnosis has done a beautiful 
 job of bringing his entertaining world to the realm of electronic gaming with Discworld II: Mortality 
 Bytes!. "Entertaining" is the key word here: If you don't expect Dostoyevsky, you may unexpectedly 
 find yourself with ribs sore from laughter.   

 As with most all point and click adventures, you take possession of a vehicle body and go on a confounding 
 quest for obscure objects used to help solve a massive puzzle. What keeps Discworld II one step 
 removed from this process is its sardonic wit. In Discworld II you become Rincewind, a dour wizard 
 who needs to find three sticks, a drippy candle, an odor, and mouse blood so that a spell allowing 
 the spirits to separate from the bodies of the deceased can be cast . One thing leads to another 
 (as things usually do in adventure games) , and the quest becomes compounded by mallet yielding 
 monkeys, a protesting co-ed, a miniature Casanova, and even the sugar-coated steed of Death. Rincewind 
 keeps all this in the proper perspective, lending his dry commentary to the proceedings. And if 
 his banter reminds you of an episode of Monty Python's Flying Circus, it's no wonder. All the musings 
 and interactions of Rincewind have been masterfully narrated by Monty Python's own Eric Idle.  
 

 All this fun does bring some bulky baggage. The dialogue between the characters is a bit prolonged. 
 The puzzles do require a free-form, dadaist type of other-worldly concentration, but there are 
 clues aplenty. Rincewind will even provide his own brand of "wink and nudge" at times, but mostly 
 for the more obvious puzzles.   

 Discworld II leans closer to being an interactive cartoon than anything else, a sort of Who Framed 
 Roger Rabbit with a boastful 100 hours of gameplay. And if you choose to buy the hint book and 
 simply enjoy the ride, well, what's the harm? It's a pip!    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Urnfs
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game after countless hours of frustration about the first game (still haven't been 
 able to finish the first, mind you, a few years in) , I decided to try the next installment, and 
 see what it had to offer. I was relieved to find out that nearly everything that killed my will 
 to live from the first game, was completly fixed in the sequel. I've enjoyed this game quite a 
 lot, and as I was finishing it I realized just HOW much fun was it, but as I set down to write 
 this review I realized that it was a lot of things, But one thing it wasn't: memorable. This game 
 does mainly everything right, but it doesn't go above or beyond it. It lacks aspiration. 
  The music, for example, was just Okay, and is an element that could've really risen the game up, 
 had done right. It's mostly just generic. You go to a cemetery, you get scary music, you go to 
 a bar you get bar music. I didn't catch any themes in the musical arrangement, and it seems like 
 just another "we need music so lets just get whoever we can find and do it" type of scoring.
  Another problem i had were with the cut scenes. Even tho they are separate movies, a lot of them 
 still looked like part of the normal gameplay. As an adventure gamer, cut scenes are somewhat of 
 a reward for doing things right, and the cutscenes in this game were mediocre at best, and not 
 nearly as grand as they should have been. Take the opening cutscene for example. it was done so... 
 uninspired, that you're left really cold, and not really sure what just happened. anyway...
  The plot was actually great, and quite funny at points. The only main issue is that it's repetitive, 
 and the main character even acknowledges it , but even his acknowledgment is repetitive, so i'm 
 a little on the fence about it.
  Graphics are average for the time of its release, and as such are beatifull 640x480 drawings. Tho 
 I must add I didn't much care for Rincewind's design. I would go as far as to say he's one of the 
 ugliest main character in an adventure game I've ever seen (Well, human character) . I don't know, 
 there's just nothing about him, his facial expressions, his appearance, his overall presence that 
 I liked. But that's just me.
  The game puzzles varries from normal to somewhat hard, but most of the puzzles i got stuck in were 
 actually related to a door I didn't even know I could open in the middle of the street. Whatever.
 
  And that's basically it. An okay game, that settles for being just okay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu-pendous
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  Terry Pratchett is undoubtedly one of the funniest and observational modern writers. His list of 
 profound sattirical Discworld novels (a blend of fiction-fantasy-humour) made a surprising but 
 indeed enthusiastic welcome to the rather stale adventure video gaming. Developers Psygnosis genuinely 
 pull out all the stops to prevent any plagiarism in Pratchett's work - the world of Discworld is 
 present, creating another honest addition to the series whilst staying true to the author himself. 
 Mortality Bytes is a wonderfully crafted game and equally entertaining as Pratchett's books; if 
 that isn't a reason to solely play this game, then I do not know what would be.
  
  As with most point and click adventure games, Mortality Bytes places you with a persona of a main 
 character to venture throughout the game to find obscure items, solve puzzles and solutions and 
 to converse with other quirky characters. Those familliar with the novels will recognise Rincewind, 
 a dire wizard in training who has a mission bestowed upon him to seek out three sticks, a dripping 
 candle, odor and mouse blood so that a spell allowing spirits to be released from dead bodies can 
 be cast.
  
  After the introductary task, the plot thickens to Rincewind having to fake his own death, leading 
 him to a very high strung Death (who conforms to a strong sense of irony here) . Other memorable 
 characters include a protesting Suffragette, a midget Cassanova (with an unforgettable song!) mallet 
 wielding monkeys and even the screen siren Marilyn Monroe makes an appearance. Keeping these icons 
 in balance is the brilliantly characterised Rincewind. His Victor Meldrew attitude and dry commentary 
 matched with his obvious flaws make him one of the funniest protagonists ever. Being someone who 
 found an amicable link in Pratchett's books and the classic Monty Python, I was more than surprised 
 by the amusing vocal performance of Monty Python's Eric Idle as our hero Rincewind. (Interestingly, 
 the Victor Meldrew-esque hero is played by the man who wrote the theme tune to that show.)
  
  Although Rincewind is the straight man to the unusual characters, some of the dialogue can 
 be meaningless; when it's not so longwinded there are some witty one liners worthy of grins. It's 
 Pratchett's harmless sattirical humour of stereotypes and social attitudes; transferred into a 
 video game somehow delivers solid chemistry on screen as it does in his books.
  
  Ankh-Morpork and the rest of the 'disc' is not such a unique place to be in the genre of adventuring. 
 Item solutions need closure and puzzles require solving. But the nice thing about this game is 
 that the difficulty of completing the game is divided. Fans of the novels will expect the nature 
 of the game and predict the answer to the smart inventory puzzles. And for those who are in desperate 
 thirst of a confident adventure game will find Mortality Bytes a challenging feat of free-form 
 concentration, with the clues saving the game from being more bothersome than enjoyable. Vast exploration 
 of the Ankh-Morpork and encountering strange characters that boast at least one hundred hours of 
 gameplay (which, I must admit, is far less than I spent completing it) separate this game from 
 a dozen others.
  
  Visually, Mortality Bytes is just as charming as the script and characters. The 2D graphics are 
 boisterous in colour, tweaking the mood to a more murky nature when it needs to. While the visual 
 presentation of Mortality Bytes is nothing revolutionary, it easily fits the quota that the nature 
 of the game has with the quirky characters and a bizarre world; an effective portrayal through 
 vibrant colours and comic-book animation.
  
  Mind you, the sound and musical score is also impeccable. Without Eric Idle, though, pretty much 
 of everything about the game would have been missunderstood. As said, Rincewind is a clash between 
 Victor Meldrew and Idle himself from the Monty Python films and his narration sets the game alight 
 with enthusiasm. Other vibrant performances come from Cassanova and Death, making sure that when 
 you finally finish the one hundred hours of gameplay , you will never forget them. On the musical 
 side there is a closing number by Eric Idle and a nice little boogie from Rincewind to accompany 
 it. Every other tune is either mellow, sinister or narcotically bizarre - whatever the mood, the 
 musical flair is of excellent substance. Discworld Mortality Bytes' true value is the fact that 
 it remains loyal to Terry Pratchett's novels by adapting the perfect ingredients from his books, 
 mainly the theme and good cast of characters, into the tentative world of adventure video gaming. 
 It'll be hard for this game to dent the flagging trend in adventure tradition but, for the majority, 
 becomes a nice reminder of why Discworld, and Pratchett himself, rocks. From start to finish the 
 whole world of Mortality Bytes is supreme to the generic fodder seen in this genre. Do not miss 
 out on this amusing gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortaris
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  How often and where do you play an adventure where the world has the shape of a pizza and is carried 
 through space by a giant, godly turtle?!
  Exactly! In the game adaptation of Terry Pratchetts Discworld novels!
  
  Just like in the 
 first Discworld game you take control of Rincewind, an astonishing wizard capable ofwellevery 
 mistake that leads to total disaster.
  The game plays in a city called Ankh-Morpork, and this time the story is directly based on one 
 of the novels: Death (yes, the skinny guy with the habit to kill everything with a single touch) 
 is sick of his job and throws in the towelI mean the scythe. That leads to chaos everywhere, because 
 the dead arent taken to the other side any longer and become zombies!
  
  Now its your job to find death and to change his mind, or even to take care of his job.
  The 
 controls are like in any other adventure, where you point-and-click yourself through the entire 
 game. But the movement of Rincewind feels much better this time.
  Like you expect it from a Discworld adaptation, you find a lot of crazy items that you have sometimes 
 to combine wither other, even crazier items. 
  The puzzles and riddles to solve are just as strange as they ever were, but here the difficulty 
 is better balanced than before (so that you actually can have at least an idea of what to do next) . 
 
  
  How the inventory works is especially interesting. I already stated the following quote in my review 
 of Discworld I, but it just gives so perfectly away what IT is. By IT I mean a certain thing called 
 The Luggage, in which you can store all (yes, ALL) your items. So, heres the quote from Wikipedia:
 
  The Luggage: A wooden chest with lots of little legs, big teeth and no respect for normal dimensions. 
 It can also do your laundry.
  
  The graphics look far better that in the first Discworld game. They are just beautifully drawn 
 and the style of it gives a good example of how it could really look like in Ankh-Morpork. The 
 animations also look way better than before and arent lagging anymore (well, most of the time) .
 
  
  While the music is in no way bad, its just nothing that will stick in your mind for long.
  The 
 sound, meaning the voice acting, is very well done (again Eric Idle of the Monty Pythons voices 
 Rincewind) , but here comes one of the drawbacks: The problem with Discworld I was that a lot of 
 the dialogue just seemed to never end and got boring soon. Its become a little better in Discworld 
 II, yet there are still some dialogues that will eventually make you yawn.
  
  The game is still hard to beat, and again thats mostly because of the crazy kind of riddles you 
 have to solve to advance in the game. Once you beat it, though, theres just no reason to play 
 through it again. 
  
  If you are a fan of the Discworld novels and/or if you enjoyed the first game even the least bit, 
 than you should definitely play this game sometime.
  However, what I really recommend is just reading Pratchetts novels. Its an awesome humour that 
 is ingeniously brought to paper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starhawk55
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2005 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Don't know what Discworld is? Then this game isn't for you (but I can recomend a few good books) . 
 It is an homage to death, Rincewind and all things item questish. The game even makes fun of its 
 own brain twisting (or numbing) use of these quests. Not for the faint of heart, but a great adventure 
 if you love Death.
  
  Oh, don't bother if you have Windows XP. It don't play. I have an ancient laptop (200Mhz processor) 
 that plays this game great. There is a DOS install (compatible w/ a DOS emulator) , but you will 
 miss out on some great voice acting. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
