-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Disciples II: Rise of the Elves
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/disciplesiitheriseoftheelves/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.4, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 278 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Nov 25, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though fans of Disciples II must be anxious for a true third installment in the series, for now, 
 this is the closest thing they'll get. 

  Disciples II, Strategy First's excellent 2002 fantasy-themed turn-based strategy game, gains its 
 third stand-alone expansion pack in less than six months in Rise of the Elves. The previous two 
 add-ons, Guardians of the Light and Servants of the Dark, were just marginally good and seemed 
 more like re-releases of the original game than fully featured expansions. Rise of the Elves is 
 different, and it's better. Most notably, not only does it contain the full version of Disciples 
 II -- to entice newcomers to the series -- but it marks the first time since the original Disciples 
 game was released back in 1999 that the series has gained a new playable faction. The elves, while 
 maybe not quite as cool-looking or appealing as the four mainstay Disciples factions, are pretty 
 powerful and fit in reasonably well with the other sides. Their subtle strengths and weaknesses, 
 in comparison to their rivals, ought to please fans of Disciples II, who'll get to play as the 
 new elven faction through its own lengthy campaign, as well as in various new stand-alone scenarios. 
 The core of Disciples II doesn't change here, but it's a tried-and-true formula that's effectively 
 stood the test of time.  

          Rise of the Elves introduces an entirely new playable faction to the world of Disciples. 
 What the elves lack in sturdiness, they make up for in speed and resourcefulness.     

  As in the original Disciples and its sequel, in Rise of the Elves you control a small band of warriors 
 and mages as they explore detailed maps, searching for treasure and fighting for their kingdoms. 
 The seemingly simplistic turn-based combat of Disciples II allows you to only perform a single 
 type of action -- say, a ranged attack or a healing spell -- per each unit type. So, the makeup of 
 your army, which may eventually have up to six individual units in it, is extremely important, 
 as are your decisions about what structures to build at your faction's capital. Disciples II stands 
 as a highly streamlined version of some of the more complicated fantasy-themed turn-based strategy 
 games out there. It's a time-consuming and addictive game, as is true of all the best games of 
 this type. However, the vast majority of your time will be spent doing interesting things, like 
 exploring the map and engaging in simple but fun strategic battles, rather than tediously micromanaging 
 too many towns and baby-sitting too many units as a scenario wears on.  

  Clearly, more effort went into the production of this expansion pack than went into the previous 
 two. The new elven alliance faction mostly consists of entirely new units, and Rise of the Elves 
 also features some new map graphics, new neutral units, new music for the factions' capital building 
 screens, and some new battle music. Additionally, the elves have gotten their own new arsenal of 
 spells, and Rise of the Elves also makes a number of balance tweaks and other such changes to the 
 core game that will only be noticed by hardcore fans. By and large, this new content fits in fairly 
 well with the rest. Some of the elven units are actually a bit ugly and are not up to the graphical 
 quality of the generally imaginative and memorable unit designs of Disciples II, but others are 
 certainly on par with a majority of the artwork in the game. The new music and the woodsy capital 
 building of the elves also fit in naturally with what's already there in Disciples II.  

  Though Disciples II featured archetypal fantasy factions -- humans, dwarves, demons, and undead -- it 
 spun these in a unique way. The same can be said of the elves, who are actually allied with centaurs 
 and form a powerful conglomerate of fierce close-ranged fighters, very deadly archers, and powerful 
 mages. The elves most resemble the Empire, Disciples II's human faction, in that they have relatively 
 flimsy units but also have access to healers. Actually, elf units are the weakest of them all, 
 but to make up for it, they can level up somewhat faster than the other factions. They're also 
 highly mobile, and many of their units, especially their archers, have high initiative ratings, 
 which means they tend to strike first and can theoretically overpower their foes before they can 
 even respond.  

  The elves have a balanced variety of spells available to them, including ones that bolster their 
 own forces, in addition to ones that hinder their foes. Their magical arsenal is broader rather 
 than specifically better than that of any other faction. Irritatingly, the animations for many 
 of their spells take a rather long time to play out, which may discourage you from depending too 
 heavily on them. The elves' magic is powered primarily by a new, fifth mana resource. This does 
 not necessarily seem well balanced, though, while the other four factions need to draw upon their 
 rivals' primary mana sources to research and cast higher-level spells, no one but the elves have 
 use for the new grove mana. Not that Disciples II, as a time-consuming turn-based game, is particularly 
 well suited to competitive multiplayer battles, anyhow.  

  All in all, Disciples II fans should have fun learning the nuances of this new race. Apart from 
 the obvious superficial distinctions, the differences between all Disciples II factions have always 
 been quite subtle, and the elves are no exception. These differences are meaningful in practice 
 and are interesting to learn. You'll get to pit this new faction against all the others, thus creating 
 new game combinations and strategies.  

  The campaign, or "saga," in Rise of the Elves consists of eight lengthy scenarios that ought to 
 give even experienced Disciples II players a hearty challenge. These scenarios are filled with 
 simple, scripted sequences, which move the story along and also force you to advance cautiously 
 through each map. The story of Rise of the Elves directly continues the storyline of Disciples 
 II and is conveyed via spoken narration between the campaign missions as well as through text-based 
 dialogue in the missions themselves. It's not terribly coherent, but that's fine, since the Disciples 
 games have always had a surreal quality to them that's equally intact in Rise of the Elves.  

 
          Some challenging, lengthy scenarios will test even the most experienced Disciples fans. 
     

  Considering it's based on a two-year-old game, Rise of the Elves still looks surprisingly good. 
 As with the earlier expansion packs, this one supports resolutions of up to 1280x1024, which makes 
 the maps look even denser, though in some ways it's even harder to scrutinize for such important 
 details as enemy units or wandering monsters. The audio also holds up rather well, and, as mentioned, 
 the new music sounds very good. On the other hand, much like how some of the new elf units don't 
 look that good, they don't sound that good either. However, many of the new sounds  are  well done, 
 and the narrator for the campaign, who isn't the same ominous narrator of Disciples II but is ominous 
 nonetheless, also does a good job. For good measure, Rise of the Elves packs in an updated version 
 of the scenario editor/random map generator included with the previous expansions. It's not an 
 ideal random scenario generator, but it does allow you to easily build the framework for a respectable 
 custom map.  

  Rise of the Elves retails for more than the earlier expansion packs, but it offers a lot more. 
 Though fans of Disciples II must be anxious for a true third installment in the series, for now, 
 this is the closest thing they'll get. The new faction introduced in Rise of the Elves, while not 
 quite as visually stunning or likable as the four main forces of the Disciples universe, is still 
 appealing enough to carry this expansion pack, and this new faction makes it recommendable to both 
 general fans of fantasy-themed turn-based strategy games and fans of Disciples.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2003 4:08 pm PT
Review:  In terms of gameplay, the Elves resemble the humans a bit too much to feel like a new race. Many 
 of the Elf units are physically weaker than the other races; which makes the elves somewhat harder 
 to play at higher difficulty levels. Still, the core gameplay is fun if you like turn-based games 
 and the graphics are still quite good. I am halfway thru the Elven scenario and I'd much rather 
 be playing a full-fledged sequel. This game feels like an "add-on" in just about every way and 
 it is over-priced. The Undead and Demon races are 20 times more fun to play than the humans and 
 the elves and if you feel the same way, you may be disappointed with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilebill
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2003 8:02 am PT
Review:  Solid, immersive TBS easy to learn with depth. The elves are fun to play and the graphics for the 
 new play set are up to par with the existing game. The printed documentation included with the 
 game is sufficient for those already familiar with the Disciples II series, but newbies will wish 
 for things like a list of the hot keys and basic strategy tips that are not provided in the printed 
 manual in the box. Newbies then perforce will have to flog the web.
  
  I really like this game because the map is beautiful and detailed, the economy flows naturally 
 and does not get in the way of the game, the playsets are well-balanced providing just enough challenge 
 to keep the game interesting without unnecessary frustration.
  
  The outboard editor includes a random map generator that does a pretty good job of building a skirmish 
 map. Only light editing is necessary after the generator executes. Essentially infinite replay 
 potential. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
