-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Disciples: Sacred Lands
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/disciplessacredlands/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 28, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 185 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Aug 31, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It successfully combines various turn-based strategy and role-playing elements from existing games 
 to create an enjoyable, satisfying experience. 

 Strategy First's Disciples isn't exactly state of the art or even particularly innovative. However, 
 it successfully combines various turn-based strategy and role-playing elements from existing games 
 to create an enjoyable, satisfying experience.  

 At a glance, Disciples looks a lot like New World Computing's turn-based strategy hit Heroes of 
 Might and Magic III. The resemblance isn't purely coincidental either - Disciples is clearly modeled 
 after the Heroes games' basic structure. As in Heroes III, you'll hire heroes and armies, explore 
 a vast overland map for treasures and resources, and wage turn-based combat against either neutral 
 monsters or the roving armies of your enemy. In fact, the similarity between these games is such 
 that if you keep your eyes glued to the isometric overland map, you might think for a moment that 
 you've just booted up another game of Heroes.  

 Then again, it's highly unlikely that you'll focus all your attention on the map and those tiny 
 sprites that represent its inhabitants. Despite its use of rather lackluster (and in some cases, 
 downright lousy) rendered graphics in many parts of the game, Disciples is also chock-full of beautiful 
 hand-painted art. The menu screens are adorned with gorgeous depictions of deities and legendary 
 warriors, while in-game units are represented with excellent portraits that recall the stylized 
 character designs of the popular sword-and-sorcery anime series Record of Lodoss War.  

 In seemingly perfect accord with its graphics, Disciples' sound, particularly its music and speech, 
 also ranges from the crude to the sublime. The main overland map music is a single looped affair 
 that alternates between blandly ambient outdoor sounds and an interesting fantasy theme whose chanting 
 baritone choir and tinny glockenspiel suggest the themes from the Rankin/Bass cartoon adaptations 
 of The Hobbit and Return of the King. The voice acting of the heroes and units is also inconsistent. 
 At times, it's quite bad: The Mountain Clans loremaster sounds like he's been punched in both the 
 head and stomach repeatedly before being allowed to speak, while the Legions of the Damned counselor 
 sounds like a very, very depressed version of The Muppet Show's Gonzo. At other times, the voice 
 acting is fantastic: The game's four campaigns are skillfully narrated, the shrill lamentations 
 of the Undead Hordes' banshee are chilling, and the devious chuckle of the Legions' thief is dead 
 on.  

 Under the surface, Disciples is also a solid game to play. Though it borrows a lot from the Heroes 
 games, it also makes several significant changes and additions to the formula. The most significant 
 of these is the experience system; experience points are earned not only by your generals, but 
 also by your soldiers. Though you must upgrade your castle in order for your troops to advance, 
 those troops must first gain experience levels. This essentially eliminates the traditional tech-tree 
 scramble of the Heroes series: Even if you quickly manage to build every single upgrade structure 
 available, your troops won't actually improve until they've survived enough battles to gain the 
 next level.  

 Disciples' combat system also differs greatly from that of Heroes. There is a restrictively small 
 limit on the number of units in each general's army, so padding a hero's ranks full of swarms of 
 the best creatures available simply isn't an option. In fact, thanks to the experience system, 
 high-level troops simply aren't available at first, as they must all begin as lowly greenhorns 
 and gain experience levels. And when an actual fight breaks out - nobody moves. Combat doesn't 
 unfold across a lengthy battlefield strewn with obstacles; it's a slugfest that takes place within 
 a claustrophobically tiny box. Each unit in the game is limited to a single function; and since 
 you have so few open slots in your roster to begin with, choosing a strategically sound war party 
 is critical to your success.  

 Of all Disciples' gameplay mechanics, the exploration component seems to most closely resemble that 
 of the Heroes model. Your heroes explore the overland map in search of treasure and resources in 
 the form of gold mines and four types of magical mana. However, you don't claim resources by simply 
 walking over them; you must transform the terrain beneath the resource, either by conquering the 
 surrounding lands or by hiring a special unit to plant a rod nearby. As in the Heroes games, wandering 
 monsters also populate the map and guard treasures and roads. But instead of avoiding powerful 
 monster groups as you might have in Heroes, you will find yourself going after each one for the 
 experience points, because units whose levels have increased become far more powerful. Luckily, 
 Disciples also enables you to hire a thief unit, a uniquely useful ally with any number of special 
 powers including the ability to poison an enemy army, assassinate its weakest unit, or challenge 
 its leader to a duel to the death.  

 Though Disciples does borrow a great deal from the Heroes of Might and Magic games, it does many 
 things differently and in interesting ways. For instance, its unit experience system sets a much 
 more deliberate pace than the frantic tech-tree scramble of the Heroes games, and forces you to 
 make significant tactical decisions when you upgrade your troops. Its smaller armies also feel 
 less like squadrons of units and more like parties of adventurers, and all these nuances combine 
 to make playing Disciples feel less like an orthodox number-crunching strategy game and more like 
 a drawn-out RPG. Disciples is certainly derivative, though it draws much of its inspiration from 
 worthwhile sources and uses these gleaned ideas to construct a package that looks good, sounds 
 good, and plays just as well.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, Nothing more. I cannot see how this game has that high score, I understand that 
 the game has good qualities in stratetic wise but nothing more.
  
  Bad graphics looks like a nes game, It is a strategy game that is gonna be fun for a while of course 
 but sometimes I dont see the games value at all.
  There are alot of things to do in the game and there are alot of maps.
  
  The fighting is bad. It 
 is like Heroes of the might and magic rip-off.
  There are some good parts in the game but that doesnt make the game good and this game isnt even 
 worth a rating of 5.
  The towns are okey but it is still a short game and doesnt have anything special to offer.
  
 
  I do not reccomend this game because it id not good. It has its ups and downs but nothin more. Bad 
 graphics, short, not alot to do, bad fighting animations, so lil monsters.
  Dont play it, take a hold of HOMM and play the great Heroes of the might and magic before you even 
 touch this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OverGod
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  This game is far good then Heroes series.
  It is like an RPG game ....... u will love this game .
  U can upgrade your army ,build buildings 
 ,transform terrain ,and u got even a thief :D
  So don't stand there play this classic game!!!!!!
  Long live the Disciples 
 
  Long live the Disciples 
  Long live the Disciples 
  Long live the Disciples 
 
  Long live the Disciples 
  Long live the Disciples 
  Long live the Disciples 
 
  Long live the Disciples 
  Long live the Disciples 
  Long live the Disciples 
 
  Long live the Disciples 
  Long live the Disciples 
  Long live the Disciples 
 
  Long live the Disciples 
  Long live the Disciples  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
