-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Divine Divinity
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/divinedivinity/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 27, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.3, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,032 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Larian Studios
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 22, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's much more to Divine Divinity than its impressive graphics and music and its combination 
 of hack-and-slash action and pure role-playing, and that says a lot for the game. 

 The worst thing about Divine Divinity is its title. Strange name notwithstanding, Divine Divinity 
 from Belgian developer Larian Studios is a well-designed, open-ended, lengthy role-playing game 
 sporting impressive graphics and sound and a lot of replay value. Combining many of the best aspects 
 both of action-driven RPGs like the Diablo series and epic, open-ended RPGs like the classic Ultima 
 series, Divine Divinity is a real pleasure to play. And even despite its conventional fantasy setting 
 and how it clearly takes inspiration from other games, Divine Divinity manages to have its own 
 distinct style -- thanks in large part to a truly incredible musical score. For all these reasons, 
 Divine Divinity mustn't be overlooked amidst the stiff competition from this year's other great 
 games in its category.           Divine Divinity combines hack-and-slash action and pure role-playing. 
    

 The story and setting of Divine Divinity are typical of what you'd expect from a fantasy role-playing 
 game. The land of Rivellon combines magic, monsters, and medieval sensibility under one roof and 
 is populated not just by humans but also by dwarves, elves, orcs, the living dead, and other fantasy 
 archetypes. That the game takes place in an immediately recognizable fantasy world is evidence 
 that Larian Studios didn't take risks with every aspect of Divine Divinity. The designers were 
 wise in this -- if you've played other role-playing games before, then chances are it won't take 
 you long to get accustomed to Divine Divinity, and you'll appreciate that.   

  You'll appreciate even more the massive amount of detail that lies underneath the game's superficially 
 generic style. This is one of those uncommon role-playing games where the world actually seems 
 rather alive. Political tensions, social disorder, secret factions, and various guilds, cults, 
 and pockets of resistance can be found all throughout Rivellon, and in large part it's up to you 
 to decide whether or not to involve yourself in any of it. Alternately, you could just as well 
 roam the countryside slaying villains and other wicked creatures, earning riches and using them 
 to buy better and better equipment. The game does have a cohesive central story to it, but like 
 many classic computer RPGs, Divine Divinity is just as much about creating your own adventures 
 as it is about following a linear plot.   

  You begin play by choosing from a male or female version of one of three character types: warrior, 
 wizard, or survivor -- the latter is basically a rogue. These characters look distinctly different 
 and begin with different skills, and each also has its own special attack: The warrior is capable 
 of performing a whirlwind attack that damages every adjacent enemy, the wizard can perform a magic 
 trick causing him or her to switch positions with an enemy, and the survivor can sneak about, unbeknownst 
 to nearby creatures. These come in very handy for each respective character and will probably govern 
 how you play them.           The warrior, wizard, and survivor each are viable, enjoyable characters 
 to play.    

 Interestingly, each character type's special attack and initial starting abilities are all that 
 distinguish that character from the others, because characters from any class can later proceed 
 to learn any other class' skills as they gain experience levels. For example, a warrior may learn 
 the wizard's restoration spell and the survivor's ability to gradually regenerate health. A survivor 
 may learn the warrior's crossbow specialization skill or the warrior's repair ability. A wizard 
 may learn the survivor's lock-picking and thieving skills. This system actually works very well 
 and encourages you to create a multitalented character. Each time you gain a level, you'll find 
 yourself facing a tough decision on which skills to learn or which skills to upgrade -- but it's 
 a tough decision not because there are many wrong answers, but because there are so many right 
 ones. Most every skill in Divine Divinity is useful.   

  Right off the bat, Divine Divinity looks very similar to Diablo II, though it looks much better. 
 The gameplay itself also seems quite similar at first. Controlling the game is simple using just 
 the mouse, and occasional pathfinding issues and a few slightly awkward aspects of the interface 
 really aren't much of a problem. Hotkeys are available for revealing all items of interest onscreen, 
 and you can attack your opponents just by clicking on them once. Actually, the game has a very 
 handy feature that lets you automatically target the nearest foe, so you don't even have to click 
 on it directly.    

 That's not to say Divine Divinity is a hands-off gaming experience, since it's anything but. The 
 combat tends to be very challenging, requiring you to make hasty retreats at times, use various 
 skills in quick succession, and liberally quaff various magic potions to restore your health and 
 magic power. The game can be punishing at times, since critical hits to unarmored areas can slay 
 your character easily, and enemies will pursue you seemingly to the ends of the earth. Luckily, 
 you can pause the action at any moment and issue further instructions to your character, which 
 is essential for surviving some of the tougher bouts. The combat has a generally solid feel to 
 it, and much like in the Diablo series, you'll often pit your lone character against droves of 
 enemies and somehow scrape by with a hard-fought, satisfying victory. Note that while Divine Divinity 
 is a single-player, single-character game, you won't always have to do the fighting all by yourself. 
 Sometimes you'll get to take part in great pitched battles, and at other times you can have companions 
 join you and fight at your side.           There's plenty of detail in Divine Divinity's graphics. 
    

 Of course, there's much more to Divine Divinity than combat. There's a great deal of questing to 
 be done, and very little of it consists of banal fetch quests or other trivial matters. Instead, 
 you might have to set off across the countryside to send for reinforcements for settlements in 
 dire need of assistance, investigate murder or political corruption, and much more. Exploring the 
 land can take hours and hours, and walking or running in between areas of interest can take a while, 
 too. Fortunately, travel is facilitated by the presence of teleporters at key areas throughout 
 the world, which you'll need to unlock before you can use. You'll also find a couple of portable 
 magic pyramids early on that make getting around much easier. You can drop one anywhere you like, 
 and use the other to instantly teleport back to it -- very handy, and a clever concept. As you journey 
 through Rivellon, you don't have to be the good guy, either. Go on and try to hack down everyone 
 in town if you want, or rob from the rich and keep it. Divine Divinity looks and plays like Diablo, 
 but it does have the depth and pure role-playing aspects of more-traditional games in the genre. 
   

  Considering the game's been imported from Europe, the English translation of Divine Divinity is 
 surprisingly good. Some of the dialogue is intentionally comical and quite effectively so, and 
 it serves well to cut through the game's otherwise grim look and style. Dialogue with characters 
 is always to the point and never overbearingly long-winded, yet there's plenty of chatting to be 
 done by players who prefer social discourse to nonstop action in their role-playing games. Some 
 of the dialogue can be heard in full speech, and here too you may be surprised by the effectiveness 
 of some of the performances. Most of the voice over is ham-fisted and some of it is decidedly awkward, 
 but at other times, the voice acting in Divine Divinity is quite good.   

  Though the game uses the same sort of washed-out, earthy color scheme as Diablo II, Divine Divinity's 
 graphics boast tremendous detail not seen in any other 2D role-playing game to date. Characters 
 are animated very smoothly and look fantastic when equipped with just about any combination of 
 the game's massive variety of weapons and armor. There are tons of different monsters and nonplayer 
 characters, too, and the different settings are also very attractive. Set foot into a local tavern 
 or another such civil location, and you'll be dazzled by just how much can be going on onscreen 
 all at once. And, much like in the Ultima series or in this year's Morrowind, just about any object 
 in Divine Divinity can be picked up or at least identified or moved about. So even though there's 
 so much detail in virtually every area of the game, you won't feel like it's just window dressing. 
 Divine Divinity supports graphical resolutions up to 1024x768 and has very few loading times. You 
 can stomp across miles of countryside without the game ever pausing to load up new scenery, and 
 though the frame rate can bog down at times on lower-end machines trying to run the game at a high 
 resolution, Divine Divinity generally runs smoothly and looks great.           You can really lose 
 yourself in this fun, addictive role-playing game.    

 Some good sound effects serve to enhance the action and the ambience in the game, but the musical 
 score, credited to Kirill Pokrovsky, deserves special mention. This haunting, memorable soundtrack 
 stunningly uses strings, percussion, and choir vocals to create an effect that enriches every aspect 
 of the gameplay. Most every song in the soundtrack sounds amazing, and yet there's tremendous variety 
 in it, ranging from minstrel tunes that greet you when you walk into a tavern, to lonely, atmospheric 
 melodies for when you're crossing through the dangerous countryside. There have been numerous great 
 soundtracks in games this year, including those of games like Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, Freedom 
 Force, Mafia, and Icewind Dale II. And the musical score of Divine Divinity is right up there with 
 them and is arguably the best yet at drawing you into the experience.   

  There's much more to Divine Divinity than its impressive graphics and music and its combination 
 of hack-and-slash action and pure role-playing, and that says a lot for the game. Though it might 
 seem lacking in originality at first, if you've ever enjoyed another computer role-playing game 
 before, then chances are you'll find whatever it is you liked there in ample quantities here, and 
 done at least as well. Divine Divinity simply is one of this year's best efforts at capturing all 
 the best qualities of the role-playing genre: the experience of growing more and more powerful 
 while leaving an undeniable impression on a memorable, richly detailed world.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Now I understand what Sacred is trying to achieve after playing both, and "DD" did it better. Killing 
 monsters and leveling up is much rewarding in this game as you can sense the level difference better 
 and the monsters don't respawn annoyingly and they drop a nice mix of treasures to keep you interested 
 most of the time while clicking them to death.
  
  The graphics though dated by now, in fact still look fabulous today in their pre-rendered sprite 
 form. It's a refreshing retro outlook compared to the 3D-polygon dominant games in the market since 
 most classic RPGs such as Diablo and the Ultima series are best remembered in this isometric form. 
 Plus, the gear on you and most of the environment around you are detailed and looks lusciously 
 beautiful which makes exploring and uncovering the fog of war on your map a motivating thing to 
 do. And also, like everybody who've played Divine Divinity before, you would have agreed that the 
 music is a haunting A-list score.
  
  Most of the quests, even just Fed-exing stuff, are rewarding and fun to do accompanied by the game's 
 quirky sense of humor. At least the NPCs and these side quests are fixed and easier to track and 
 manage rather than have random weird quests like rescue a chicken from a pack of orcs (yes I mean 
 in Sacred) .
  
  My only complaint is that the ending could be better than what it's offering as it's a big turn-off 
 with just a vague and uneventful cinematic and a cut to the credit screen afterwards. However, 
 Divine Divinity is definitely a great role-playing experience no matter when you play it and stays 
 great for one seating perhaps, but a memorably fun one I promise.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eseries
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  I just want more and more open ended rpgs. So in my waiting for fallout 3, I just keep researching 
 these old infinity-engine games. This game is great and stands the test of time. 
  This game surprised me because I didn't expect the voice acting or half the story that it presented 
 to me. I expected a diablo clone with no depth (Sacred) , alas I was roped in very easily. The great 
 thing about this game is that it doesn't take itself that seriously. The story is there and is 
 a nice fantasy tale (and is serious) , but there's plenty of humor that just keeps you from being 
 bored at killing constantly.
  The character creation is really cool, as it allows you to play as three very common classes -- warrior, wizard, rogue. 
 However, nothing is set in stone at this time but your base stats and a special move or two. Once 
 you pick a character, regardless of the class -- you'll be able to level any skill in all of the 
 character's trees. 
  My one complaint, which made me put it down for good -- is the sometimes insane difficulty it puts 
 on you if you're a specific character. There's one boss in the game that was practically impossible 
 for me to kill because I didn't level certain skills. So I leveled them and took care of her. At 
 the end of the game you are forced to fight all the major bosses over again, but now they're stronger 
 than before, and once again come with some power that doesn't even allow me to see them unless 
 I've leveled the ability to see invisible creatures (which is useless in the rest of the game) . 
 So I'm stuck and my character is nowhere near a level up anytime soon. A second play-through I 
 wouldn't make this mistake, but it shouldn't be there in the first place. You're supposed to be 
 able to make your character however you feel, and still be able to beat the game.
  Overall, the game is tight and really fun. It doesn't try anything that it can't do. Everything 
 is pulled off very well and I recommend this classic to anyone wanting to revisit rpgs of this 
 era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rascarin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Divine Divinity (or DivDiv, for short) is one of those games that most people never heard of until 
 the awful sequel comes out, and as such is often overlooked in peoples lists of best RPG's.
  
  I picked DivDiv up (actually it was my mother that first picked it up; how embarrassing) on 
 a whim one day, with some scepticism. I installed and played it, expecting something mediocre at 
 best. However, I was pleasantly surprised.
  
  DivDiv gives you a choice of three basic starting classes; Warrior, Rogue or Mage (what else?) , 
 however you are not confined to this parameters during the game. They only really affect your starting 
 stats (and your voice, oddly) ; once you start playing and gaining levels you are able to pick skills 
 from any of the three categories, with none of those annoying multi-class penalties. This lack 
 of restriction makes character building easier and increases skill customisation - which is always 
 nice.
  
  Once your class, face and name have been chosen, the game kicks you out into the world. The storyline 
 DOES take a little while to break into; the starting village could probably be seen as an unofficial 
 (and long) training sequence. It's for the best, really; the enemies you face outside of the village 
 are far tougher than anything you'll have met so far (unless you've been silly and picked a fight 
 with Jake...) , so you'll want all the goodies and experience from completing the sidequests in 
 the village.
  
  DivDiv has no real difficulty curve; its a challenging game from the beginning and you'll need 
 to be smart about who you pick fights with. Some places will be impassable to you until you reach 
 higher levels. The game has none of that silly "levelled enemies" rubbish; each enemy stays at 
 a fixed toughness throughout.
  
  Combat is fairly primitive, but not much more so than other similar games around the time. Spellcasting 
 isn't exactly complicated either, but it doesn't need to be. As long as your character is levelled 
 properly, combat shouldn't pose too much of a problem.
  
  Once you finally manage to find the beginning of the story, it turns out to be rather good. You'll 
 probably want to read up on the backstory too, though it IS explained over time during the game. 
 The story has a good few twists and turns, and is good for many, many hours of gameplay.
  
  The sidequests are good too; some simple, some deep, some funny. They'll pop up all over the place, 
 and are all worth the effort of looking into. You never know where you'll find something important. 
 There are easter eggs and secret quests dotted around too, which are also fun. One sidequest turns 
 out to be a romance subplot, and is quite fun if you can get past how thoroughly ugly the pleb 
 you are given is.
  
  
  So to summarise: a good, solid RPG. Good character building, good story, fun sidequests, and plenty 
 of hours of gameplay and replayability. Combat could probably be more interesting, but its not 
 so bad. 
  
  My rating: 7.5 The game loses points for being too challenging during the early stages and at certain 
 points throughout. Also a number of potentially game breaking bugs that were neglected during patches 
 can cause problems.
  My verdict: Definitely worth getting if you're into RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjalin
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Every little corner of the game has something to offer for your role-playing experience!
  The 
 2 D graphics is so beautifully created that makes you wanna' stay in some spots of the game for 
 a while: P
  
  THE STORYLINE IS FLAWLESS.
  Amazing quests and turns of events... lots and lots of side quests:)
  The MUSIC is wonderful... simply 
 wonderful:)
  
  Even if you aren't a Role-Playing fan I guarantee this one will be something else:)
  
  After 
 so many years of waiting... I just couldn't find any game to be able of beating "DIVINE DIVINITY" 
 even with all those graphic improvements.
  
  Too bad not too many have heard of this masterpiece.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermes666
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  divine divinity is more then a good hack and slash and rpg game... it has good graphics for a 2D 
 game.... one of the best 2D graphics i've ever seen.
  the interface is very good looking too.. and useful all together.
  You can choose one of 3 classes 
 both for male and female characters. You can be a warrior, a survivor (smth like a thief) , an archer 
 and of course a sorcerer.
  The story is just very very good written. the dialogue is interesting but not all of it is spoken... like 
 it is in games like gothic. that can be a little minus for a good rpg (still let's remember it's 
 from 2002) .
  the items in the game are good looking and kinda normal alike. (thats a + for gamers who don't like 
 dungeons and dragons style games.. (with sf weapons and hellish looking armors) .
  the world of divine divinity is big and very well managed. you wont walk like crazy seeing only 
 trees. there are a lot of side quests and the game could take you a lot of time to finish.
  i give a 10 for the Larian Studios for making such a good game. the game has like 2-3 patches. that 
 means it was a good game from the moment they released it .
  I think its a game that a rpg lovers should not miss.
  Ok we are in 2008 but the graphics of 
 this game are very good... and for real graphics lovers... at least it shouldn't disturb the eye. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair-of-Acre
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  I got this game cheaply! Really cheaply at 3 for 10! Trust me, it wasn't a bad buy!
  While not as good as Morrowind or Oblivion, it still has an addictive element that is very, very 
 enjoyable. There are also numerous item and save editors if you want to change something! Not to 
 mention the beautiful music. There are alot of quests for those of you who really enjoy that sort 
 of thing and very deep lore. In quick, while not the best looking game, it has a sort of beauty 
 that goes beyond the appearance.
  There is also a teleporter system to get you quickly around the map, and the main quest has a very 
 good storeyline.
  It can be difficult for the unexperienced RPG player, but the simple controls make it easy to get 
 a grasp of.
  
  
  Quick Review
  Graphics - 7
  Gameplay - 8
  Controls - 9
  Sounds - 9
  Lifespan - 8
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nagi86
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I like the Balur's Gate series. I enjoyed playing Diablo II. The two are very different from one 
 another, as Baldur's Gate isn't quite as fast paced and has a much more non-linear game-play system, 
 as compared to Diablo II's. Divine Divinity combines the two styles. It can be hack and slash like 
 Diablo at moments, but at the same time there are probably hundreds of side quests, some of which 
 you can choose which way you want to go. 
  In terms of graphics, being a 3rd being game, the graphics are similar to that of Baldur's Gate 
 or Diablo II, maybe a bit more detailed. As for music, Divine Divinity has a great soundtrack, 
 one of the better soundtracks I've heard for a game. 
  Overall, I'd recommend the game for those who enjoyed playing games like Baldur's Gate or Diablo 
 II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scullyy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Despite the awkward name, this RPG is one of the best made imo. I like to make things short, so 
 I made a list of pros and cons.
  
  Pros:
  Beautiful world
  Amazing story
  Tons of side quests
  Great dialogue
  Great characters
  Lots of cool monsters
  A big variety 
 weapons/armor
  Superb music
  You can pick up and throw stuff. I love that :D
  
  Cons:
  None?
  
  My favorite game music of all time. It's just so sad and beautiful at the 
 same time. I don't mean to sound emo here. It's up there with Fallout 1&2 on my list of best CPRG's.
 
  If you're into RPG's check this game out. If you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono2
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  
  While the story line is pretty well thought out, i would not say it is very engaging. The main 
 story itself would only take 5 minutes to explain. The reason the game takes so long to complete 
 is because of the large amount of side quests in the game. In my opinion, most of the side quests 
 are boring and totally pointless in terms of the main story. It won't be long before you find your 
 quest log book swamped with totally pointless quests. The only annoying thing is that if you don't 
 do the side quests then you will find yourself under leveled and not able to take on the later 
 bosses. Gameplay:
  
  One thing that i really liked about this game was the vast amount of skills available to you. The 
 class of character you choose at the beginning of the game really has no effect on what type of 
 character you will end up being. This really depends on the skills you choose, so you could end 
 up being a bit of all the classes (warrior, wizard or thief) . There are lots of weapons and armour 
 to collect along the way. The game world is big and because of the vast amount of side quests you 
 can replay the game and do many things that you missed out the first time through. Graphics:
  
  As far as 2D games go, the graphics are not that bad. The landscape is shaded pretty well, 
 and the few and very far between video cutscenes are pretty descent, but nothing that will make 
 you go wow . The graphics are not likely to put you off of the game unlike many older games.
  
  Sound:
  
  The soundtrack for this game is absolutely amazing! Seriously!!! You can dowload 
 it for free from the soundtrack composer's own website. The music is very atmospheric and really 
 pulls you into the game. All the sound effects are also meticulously well done.
  
  Value:
  
  I picked this game up for &pound;3 (~$6) brand new, so it was pretty good value for 
 me. I would not really say this game was worth more than &pound;10. This game is huge, so you will 
 be getting you moneys worth.
  
  Summary:
  
  If you are the type of person who likes an RPG with a great engaging story which flows smoothly 
 then this game probably is not for you. There are a LOT of side quests which really stretch out 
 the game and make it quite repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcktlnt
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Characters:
  Play as either warrior, magic-user, or survivor, although it makes no difference which role your 
 initial choice is except for stats and skills. You can choose from any skill in any class' skill 
 tree, so it all depends on your style of play. You can pick off stragglers with a bow while your 
 undead army unleashes their fury, you can buff your character and go in swinging like a madman, 
 or you can hide in the shadows to set traps and cast elemental spells on the unexpecting.
  
  Gameplay:
  This game is easy to jump into, albeit there are times the controls feel clunky, 
 but nonetheless, left-click to move/attack and right-click to cast spells/use abilities. The world 
 you explore is pretty large with interesting quests scattered about. But the game does feel a bit 
 short even with completion of every side quest. If you know what you are doing, the main story 
 is straightforward. There is a reputation system in the game, which goes up or down depending on 
 your actions. Though it can be altered by giving free items to NPCs capable of trading. Sound/Music:
 
  I have some beef with the voice acting. It sounds like the same people using different silly voices 
 to change the feels of the characters. At first I laughed from some of the beginning NPCs, but 
 after awhile I sped read to not have to hear the voices. The music was soft and not loud. It felt 
 really in place. It's not mind-blowing, but it goes well with this game.
  
  Side note: I do not know if it was my computer or the game itself, but it crashed fairly often, 
 even after patching. So note to people, save often and save with different names in case the file 
 becomes corrupted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loginrequired
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  This game although very similar to Diablo (the first one, mind you) , while playing it the player 
 becomes engaged, as although, diablo-like the game has its own charms and characteristics. It has 
 a very simplistic control system much like Diablo (which maybe why people judge them as being similar) . 
 The graphics are quite absorbing, for the 2d images in this game are very detailed and are at the 
 very pinnacle 2d imaging. With the imagining comes the sound, there is a smooth transition as the 
 player moves from area to area. The soundtrack is made so that it is best suited to the atmosphere 
 given the surroundings. The big let down of the game is the quality of the voice acting, there 
 are certain characters you would expect to at least have a unique quality to their voice, though, 
 you come away with a feeling of disappointment. There are those characters who speak, who invoke 
 the actual persona the game is trying to present, though, certain characters have a cheapness to 
 them and leaves you wondering whether they were put in there because the developers thought that 
 the amazing imagery and gameplay were enough or that they were stretched for time. Simply take 
 notice of the great soundtrack, though, not to much notice of the quality of the voice acting. 
 Also, certain parts of the dialog does not at all fit the time frame nor the setting of the game. 
 Particularly the words, **** and 'bastard', leaves the player wondering 'What?' and 'WTF?' (pardon 
 my english) .
  
  The gameplay can be considered just exactly in the position of just right . There are not so much 
 those big bosses near the end of a every level/quest as you would expect in many rpgs, though the 
 quests and the monsters that grow intensely difficult to defeat as you progress, leaves the player 
 in a state of awe. The game is created as though the monsters are grow in difficulty in accordance 
 to the development of your character, depending on how you play the game, that is.
  
  As a conclusion, I would have to say this game is a very enjoyable experience, it's simplicity 
 in gameplay and gradual progressive difficulty makes this game applicable to all gamers, especially 
 for those of who are beginners, rpg-enthusiasts, new to the rpg genre and those of who crave quality 
 in their gaming. An exceptional choice for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobattle
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Review Divine divinity
  
  I've read a lot of reviews regarding this game some says that this is a rip off of the Diablo series
 
  and some says it has a unique game play. I am leaning towards the unique game play this
  game is offering because I still feel a bit of Diablo in the game.
  
  GAME PLAY: 9/10
  The 
 game is very unique as you experience more dialogues rather than battles compared to other games 
 I played.
  I found dialogues here humorous and entertaining because you have the option of insulting/praising 
 who your talking to.
  In this game you can change the attitude of the NPCs towards you by either doing a good deed or 
 a bad deed (preferably killing the innocent, have been seen stealing) .
  Although you have a choice of doing bad deeds it will just ruin the game as you will be stuck at 
 some point if you mercilessly kill a lot of important npcs.
  This game has a lot of quests from stupid quests to a complex quests that you really need
  a 
 guide to accomplish (some quests require you to have a keen eye/luck to find an item) . Some quests 
 are not user-friendly as some quests do not tell the specific detail of the quests, so you will 
 find yourself reading guides before you finish the game.
  Unique quests such as brawler fights, sabotage, infiltration, detective work, etc. makes the game 
 more entertaining. A. BATTLES: 10/10
  Nothing new nothing great. You could find yourself bored and irritated at some point. why 10/10? 
 because battles is required to finish the game (as most game require you to do) so nothing new about 
 that..
  
  B. CHARACTER: 8/10
  The character development when progressing the game is noticeable because whenever you speak to 
 NPCs their dialogues change about you.
  The skills of your character is useless whatever job you choose ( Warrior, Wizard, Survivor*rogue, 
 thief*) because whatever job you choose you can still get the skill of the other jobs (although 
 there is an initial skill they give it is still useless) .
  There are 4 base stats your character can have and raise (by 5 points) whenever you level up, it 
 is STRENGTH, AGILITY, INTELLIGENCE, CONSTITUTION. In those 4 only 2 are useful regardless of what 
 job you have you'll still want to raise STR and AGI (up to 45) , if you raise other stats you'll 
 find yourself being killed at some point.
  
  C. MISCALLENOUS: 5/10
  Miscallenous, other unnoticeable stuffs on the game that makes you stuck at some point. This game 
 has a lot of bugs specifically your progress on some quests, one wrong option on your dialogues 
 will result in a chain reaction that can make you stuck and not finish the game.
  Maps are so big and exploring the map is useless and a waste of time when you don't have a quest 
 on the part of the map.
  Although my score here is low it does not mean it will affect the game play, because you still 
 got the save/load magic some bugs are remedied.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  The sound is great and lame at some point. Although sound makes a small impact on the game it is 
 still reviewed hehe. the game's sound sometimes are out of place. Example of it is the farmlands, 
 the Background music is like a horde of enemy coming at you. Your characters voice is emotionless. 
 You'll most likely hear a robot rather than a real human being. NPC voice are good though.
  
  GRAPHICS: 7/10
  the Graphics makes me cry that quests are hard to finish without the use 
 of guides (finding items) , the graphics at that time is great though..
  
  REPLAY VALUE: 3/10
  Referring to the character review , whatever job you choose you'll still 
 get the skills of another job. so replaying the whole game is a waste of time.
  
  PLAYERS VIEW: 9/10
  I never actually considered other factors other than game play in my point 
 of view so 9/10 is my score (refer to game play)
  
  other notes: the game isn't actually a rip off of Diablo its because it was released after Diablo 
 series was released doesn't mean it is a rip off already, if you played this game at some time 
 you'll realize this is very unique and not like the Diablo series.
  talking about rip off, i think this game is ripped off by oblivion: elder scrolls IV hehe (i don't 
 know who came first oblivion I or divine divinity) . when playing the game you can actually recall 
 a lot in the oblivion genre.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaProgramming
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Divine Divinity is the Diablo-esque game with a funny name by Larian Studios. Although the name 
 is odd, the gameplay is solid.
  
  You are given three basic character classes: Wizard, Warrior, or Survivor. Wizard and Warrior are 
 self-explanatory, and Survivor is kind of like a rogue or thief. Your original choice will determine 
 an initial special skill, but when you level up you can choose to engage skills from any of the 
 other classes.
  
  There are plenty of quests to be had in Divine Divinity, as you would expect. Although the gameplay 
 is similar to Diablo, the thing that sets Divine Divinity apart is the multitude of quests available 
 to the player. The game feels more like a mix between Diablo and Neverwinter Nights, or Icewind 
 Dale. There are so many quests that gives you plenty to do, and the combat is simple yet complicated. 
 There are different skills available that allow combat to keep from becoming mundane.
  
  The soundtrack in Divine Divinity is inventive and original. Subtle changes in the music allows 
 the game to keep it's charm and atmosphere. I have even gone as far as ripping the music onto my 
 iPod and listening to it simply because it is brilliantly composed.
  
  Overall, you will find 50+ hours of game if you take on a lot of the side-quests. I have owned 
 this game for 4 years now, but it recently it has popped up at Target for $9.99, which is a steal. 
 Also, if you find the sequel, Beyond Divinity, Divine Divinity is packaged with it as an added 
 bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morfessa
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  Divine Divinity is an excellent roleplaying game. It is an immersive, action-oriented, fun game 
 with great story elements and humourous content too.
  
  While it at first appears to be a run-of-the-mill hack 'n' slash action roleplaying game, Divine 
 Divinity separates itself from that genre with a fantastic mixture of free-roaming exploration 
 and story-driven adventure. You begin by choosing one of six characters and that choice will determine 
 the style of gameplay you will need to adopt once you enter dangerous areas. Casters will need 
 to start out with a little more patience than warrior-types. Yes, the spell-throwers are weak in 
 close quarters and you will definitely need to pay attention to your little red-and-blue coloured 
 bars, particularly in the early parts of the story.
  
  You control your character with the keyboard and mouse, similarly to such games as Diablo. The 
 story, however, paces the game nicely by not allowing you to bite off more than you can chew at 
 the start. The town in the beginning of the story is surrounded by enemies who can easily kill 
 your character, so you'll want to take refuge within the walled settlement until you grow stronger.
 
  
  What's great about Divine Divinity is that you really feel as though your character is a part of 
 the world. There is a great amount of dialogue and you are actually presented with real choices, 
 rather than being presented with cardboard cut-outs for quests. Of course, there ~are~ mandatory 
 quests in that mix, but there are so many things to do that you will learn to welcome the pace 
 of things offered.
  
  This game has a kind of feeling to it that envelopes you: the soundtrack features excellent music 
 and the voice-acting is not bad either, though there are some cheesy bits here and there. The plot, 
 as well as the good sense of humour, more than makes up for any shortcomings that might be found 
 in the voice-cast. Yes, it is at the same time both serious and funny!
  
  Divine Divinity uses two-dimensional graphics with an isometric point-of-view. That is, your character 
 is always in the centre of the screen. If you like this style, you will just love this game! The 
 imagery and effects are absolutely delicious and I feel that they are among the best of ANY game 
 featuring 2D graphics.
  
  This roleplaying game comes highly recommended; you couldn't be disappointed here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  Warrior, Wizard or Survivor? Which fate is yours? These are the three characters you can choose, 
 also female or male. Which ever you choose could decide the fate of the world inside of this game.
 
  
  In any case, you are the chosen one according to prophecy. As such, you must save the world once 
 again from whoever wants to destroy it, in this case it is the Lord of Chaos. But before you save 
 this little world you have to be discovered and blessed as the Divine Savior. This game is filled 
 with lots of monsters, but has only 2 acts, which turns out to make this game a little short, if 
 you know what you are doing. but you get a few laughs out of the game. At certain points you meet 
 people that say things that are not even real, like when you do something wrong in the game, your 
 character says Houston we have a problem i mean common this line was taken from around the 21st 
 centure, and this game is around the 1st centure to the 4th century. this game turned out to be 
 like Diablo 2 but much shorter, some improved graphics, and gameplay.
  
  This game is recommended by me to all RPG players, only if you are looking for A quick playing, 
 not a long lasting one, and no muiltiplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The graphics aren't too rewarding, a little outdate, but with an old-school charm that makes the 
 old rpg'ers enthralled. Maybe its this older gamestyle that creates such a high appeal.
  The game starts with the selection of your character, male/female, and a choice of a few classes, 
 though the classes don't really effect gameplay near the end... they only begin with different 
 stats and one special ability. Any ability thereafter can be learned by any class. This (to me) 
 made the game more customizable in the long run... but almost not as fun in the short term. You 
 can create a godly hero that can defeat pretty much any foe, which to me... just makes the game's 
 gameplay worse. I want a challenge, not an easy success in any aspect. Since that is my only one 
 major gripe, it still earns an 8 in gameplay. The rest of the games interface was easily comprehensible 
 and the fighting and skills available were very intricate and fun. The story line was polished 
 and stayed true to the rpg genre's main appeal. The sound wasn't anything special, but it fit perfectly 
 to the game's environment. Overall, this game introduced new gameplay with old styles to create 
 a very well-done game that should be picked up by any rpg fanatic. Though I wouldn't reccomend 
 this game to players whom do not like RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This really isn't a very good game. Even so, I found myself enjoying it.
  
  The graphics are sub-par, and the gameplay is derivative. It's an action RPG. Been there, done 
 that. In many ways, it can't even get the tried and true right. The movement feels block and awkward 
 at time. The game feels like something I'd expect from a retro RPG. The character advancement was 
 in the category of so much to do, but none of it really changes my play style from just whacking 
 things with my biggest sword kind of play. It was hard to get excited about making this character 
 my own.
  
  The score wasn't too horrible at times though. The story wasn't very good, but the world offered 
 lots to do and places to go. It wasn't HUGE by any means, and there were a few places that felt 
 a little unfinished quest wise, but it was a fun romp. I did enjoy wandering this world and seeing 
 what it had to offer, for what it was worth.
  
  Overall, this was a nice tide-me-over diversion between some bigger and better RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  well lets say it is good.......
  
  Warrior, Wizard or Survivor? Which fate is yours? It's your decision, one that will influence the 
 gameplay of Divine Divinity - action RPG or classical RPG.
  
  In any case, you are the chosen one according to prophecy. As such, only you are able to save the 
 legendary land of Rovellon from submission under the Lord of Chaos. But before you take on the 
 fight against Evil you have to be discovered and blessed as the Divine Savior. And always remember 
 one thing wherever you go: Caution is vital! The apostate magicians must not get hold of you - 
 whatever happens!
  
  Which fate will be your first choice? Warrior, Wizard or Survivor?
  
  Set in a new fantasy universe, Divine Divinity takes you on a fantastic quest in a land torn 
 apart by corruption and dark magic. Throughout your journeys you will get the chance to develop 
 your character as one of six character types, and meet a variety of people and fantastical beings. 
 By combining the best features of the RPG genre, and introducing a lot of new features, Divine 
 Divinity will appeal to both hard-core and new RPG players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippythezip
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Having just finished Titan quest, which to me dont come close to this game, my respect for this 
 game has grown beyond measure. Sure it dont carry the new 3D graphics, but to me I dont care and 
 think in games like this the 2D is better. The game play is fantastic, there must be between 50 
 and 100 hrs of play in this game. You can replay it for fun, not on some dumb harder mode unlock, 
 on a 20hr to complete new game.
  I recommend anyone to try this game. The paths to take are varied, your character can pick many 
 skills. Wish they could make a newer version.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  DD is a good game with amazing graphics rarely seen in RPG games like (diablo......) .
  DD is very addicting.
  
  Gameplay:
  Good gameplay, very addicting, very long campaign, replay 
 value.
  Multiplayer options, which is good.
  
  Graphics:
  Very good for a RPG like game.
  Looks very detailed and real.
  
  Sounds:
  Sounds are good 
 (+/-)
  
  Online:
  Great online gameplay, where you can compete at each other or fight together.
  
  Value:
  
 Excellent replay value, due to the chars you can create.
  Online increases the value.
  Budget priced game.
  
  Variety:
  Good variety in enemies, weapons, characters and maps/levels.
 
  
  DD is a good game, while it is not that popular.
  cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Divine Divinity (2002, Larian Studios) is a very good Action RPG, which mixes the best elements 
 from Ultima and Diablo. While in the Ultima games the dialogues and puzzles were very intelligent 
 and complex, those games suffered from a mediocre combat system. On the other hand, Diablo features 
 an amazing gameplay, but there aren't many relevant dialogues and complex quests to solve, which 
 may upset some serious RPG players. Divine Divinity tries to stay between his sources of inspiration, 
 by featuring a nice combat system and a very deep story with cool puzzles thrown in.
  
  Almost everything in this game is good: the lengthy campaign that offers a solid replay value; 
 great gameplay mechanics that are easy to learn; three playable heroes: basically the Warrior, 
 the Thief and the Mage, with an innovative character development that allows you to learn abilities 
 from any other class (although with limited conditions) ; great 2D graphics and sound.
  
  However, from my point of view, what is best in Divine Divinity is its atmosphere. Melancholic 
 as it is, the world in which this game is set is simply amazing. Everything looks appropriately 
 gloomy while you venture deeper in the land of Rivellon, facing RPG stereotypes such as orcs and 
 undeads. The NPCs also plays an important role and most of them have interesting background stories 
 to enrich even more the world you're traveling.
  
  My only complain is: -sigh- there is no multiplayer! Why? It would be a dream to play this with 
 some friends, but Larian Studios decided to concentrate their efforts to the solo experience. Fair 
 enough, although a bit disappointing.
  
  All in all, Divine Divinity is a solid RPG game that will keep you busy for weeks or perhaps even 
 months, in case you decide to explore every pixel in the world map. But this excessive amount of 
 gameplay hours will never become dull or painful, considering the respectable number of awesome 
 places you'll visit during your journey. So, sacrifice some of your sleeping hours and enjoy this 
 fine hidden piece of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Divine Divinity was a decent (topdown/2D) RPG like Diablo that provided hours of fun. I enjoyed 
 the wierd worlds and the quirky characters you dealt with. However, i would defiently recommend 
 Diablo before this game. Firstly DD doesnt have a multiplayer which makes it a huge dive. How can 
 a game like Diablo, expect to compete if it doesnt support mulitplay? They defiently should have 
 considered that. The gfx and sfx were ok, something to be expected by a game like this. The menu 
 and interface was a little clunky, but ok.
  I guess i would recommend this to fans of RPGs first becuase it does offer a different story and 
 some interesting game play. But someone who doesnt play RPGs should probably stick with something 
 a bit more streamlined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aedelas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  The hack and slash RPG section of your local game store will be getting quite cramped as of late, 
 as more and more games of the genre are released, some not so good, some worth playing. Divine 
 Divinity fits into the later and is definitely worth picking up if you do enjoy the genre.
  
  As you would have guessed by now, Divine Divinity is of the RPG genre but you could narrow 
 it down to a hack n slash if youre that way inclined. Its developed by Larian Studios who have 
 done a really good effort on the game and while it does lack in some quarters it still has plenty 
 more going for it making it a solid all round performance.
  
  It turns out a sect known as the Black Ring are up to no good and are trying desperately to summon 
 the Lord of Chaos, which would subsequently, at best, bring about the end of the world. Its your 
 task to stop the Black Ring from summoning their lord and by doing so you will become the Divine 
 One.
  
  The story begins as you awake in a small village being cared for by one of the local healers. It 
 turns out you dont remember what happened or who you are or how you got there but you waste little 
 time in pillaging your new friends house for anything useful, such as small dagger and perhaps 
 a pair of torn leggings, so your journey begins.
  
  The first few quests begin by mainly getting you used to the area, showing you where the local 
 merchant is housed, that sort of thing. Things soon pick up when the main healer of the town goes 
 a bit crazy and freezes his colleague in a block of ice, its then up to you rescue him from his 
 icy prison. This quest gives you the first glimpse of dungeons within the game and before you know 
 it your navigating your way through a dried up well and up the secret stairs into the back room 
 of the crazy healers house. After youve released the poor soul from his frozen tomb you then begin 
 your quest to restore the crazy mans sanity and subsequently begin your adventure until you become 
 the Divine One and save the world.
  
  As with many games of this genre the majority of control is done via the mouse. Point and click 
 to move, attack, talk, investigate. Thats not to say the control system is bad, because its not. 
 The point and click method is tried and tested and it does work for the game. The controls did 
 sometimes feel a little sluggish and unresponsive, something that can get quite annoying while 
 in battle, but this only happened on rare occasions so wasnt enough to warrant me turning off 
 the game in favour of something else. Combat skills can be performed by clicking the right mouse 
 button which would grant you complete control at your finger tips, if you didnt have to use your 
 other hand to switch attacks. The numbers on your keyboard are what controls items and skills and 
 by simply assigning the desired item / skill to the number you want it only takes a press of the 
 button to use the item or swap to that skill. Over all the control system is good and does fit 
 the game well. Its simple enough for you to slouch down in your chair and play one handed while 
 you go off exploring all the fog of war areas youve not yet uncovered, but also easy to use in 
 combat situations where you need to be downing pots and swapping skills very quickly.
  
  Quests are one of the plus points about the game as there are hundreds of them. They range from 
 the basic fetch quests to the more in depth chain quests that last over five levels. Theres definitely 
 enough quests to keep everyone interested and youll find yourself wanting to play through the 
 game again trying to do the quests you missed or didnt complete. Experience is the main reward 
 for completing a quest, and while you will get cash and items from some of them, the more desired 
 reward comes in the form of reputation. The higher your characters reputation the better reaction 
 youll receive from NPCs, which in turn will give you better prices on their goods or open up 
 new quests.
  
  The levelling system is pretty much default of the genre and a level up can be accomplished by 
 reaching 100% on your experience gauge. Towards the start defeating monsters is the quickest way 
 to gain the valuable experience, where as later on in the game you will find quests are also now 
 giving you their fare share of experience. Upon levelling you will be granted five attribute points, 
 which you can use to increase your characters stats. Strength, Agility, Vitality and Intelligence 
 can all be increased, but the choice is fully yours allowing you to increase the stats as you see 
 fit. Also upon levelling you will be granted one skill point, or two skill points if its a fifth 
 level (5,10,15,20,25) These skill points can then be spent on any skill you wish, providing its 
 available to you.
  
  There are forty eight skills to choose from in total and these are spread across three sections, 
 warrior, survivor and mage. The skill system is probably one of the best features about the game, 
 unlike other games that confine you to one class the character you pick at the start of the game 
 only really affects your starting stats. Should you decide youre up for a bit of robe and wizard 
 hat and opt for the Mage character there is nothing to stop you putting half your skill points 
 into the warrior section and the other half into the mage section. 
  
  The locations within the game are very nice and while some of it looks much the same as the last 
 part there is enough variance to keep you interested. There are loads of dungeons and caves within 
 the game but sadly their effect is lost along the way as they all look exactly the same as the 
 last one you ventured into. There are some nice effects to be found, such as ruined houses, trees 
 lining a river and so forth and its these that do make the majority of the games graphics appeasing 
 on the eye. Another portion of the graphics that work well are the towns and cities. Each one has 
 their own unique look and this creates a really good atmosphere as even when you leave the area 
 youll still have the image of what its like lodged in the back of your head. Despite some let 
 downs such as the repeated use of skins, and looking a bit dated in places due to the games age. 
 Over all the graphics work well, they create a good enough atmosphere, are easy on the eye and 
 fit the game well.
  
  Sadly there are only a small handful of audio tracks on offer which can get a bit frustrating at 
 times as you may get the same track repeating over and over again, in which case you may find yourself 
 hitting the mute button on your speakers. The audio tracks that are available are really nice and 
 there are times where your foot will just keep tapping to the beat. One track in particular sticks 
 out in my mind as it reminds me of the scene in Starship Troopers where all the drop ships are 
 falling to the bug planet. On paper it doesnt look like the audio track will fit into the game, 
 but it does and its probably one of the best tracks within the game. The music changes as scenarios 
 do in game which really adds to the atmosphere as one minute you may have some peaceful music being 
 played but the next youll find yourself down a dungeon and the music will be changed from harmonic 
 to dark, something that works really well within the game. Despite the fact the audio could have 
 been better it does give a solid all round performance.
  
  Sadly the game does lack a multiplayer option, something that would have added a lot of replay 
 value to the game. Thats not to say there isnt any replay value though, as you will find yourself 
 wanting to play through the game again as you try to complete unfinished quests and locate items 
 that you missed the first time around. You will also want to try different skill combinations and 
 if you do fall into this category expect a lot of replay value as with forty eight skills to choose 
 from there are plenty of different combinations for you to try out. 
  
  Overall I would definitely say that Divine Divinity is worth playing if you are into the hack n 
 slash genre and due to the reason that its now on many of the budget lines you will be able to 
 find the game dead cheap in some places. Its well worth checking out, and despite some of its 
 downfalls it still has a lot going for it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game is great, if not a bit 'old school' now. I have played this to death and almost completed 
 it and it has taken me a very long time.
  
  You see it is just huge. There is so much to do and see in the world that hours and hours just 
 seem to fly by when you are playing.
  
  Starting out, it is like almost every other RPG out there. You have little or no experience, no 
 money and no equipment and you set out into the world to get these things and make a name for yourself.
 
  
  The graphics are nothing to write home about but they do the job nicely and are pleasant to look 
 at.
  
  Sound is good and atmospheric and it comes along in the right places. The effects are good as well.
 
  
  All in all I would recommend picking a copy of this up and giving it a go for no other reason than 
 it is really good fun to play. Plus by now it will not cost very much at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2005 2:54 am PT
Review:  I heard a lot of sayings about this game, that it is the copy of "Diablo" series. The only similar 
 things i noticed is that there are some spells and skills looks and even described the same, as 
 in "Diablo 2". Other than that, this game has it's own original characteristics. It doesn't have 
 linear gameplay as some RPG games do that spoils all the fun.
  Throughout all the game music changes in all parts of the world, so does change your mood perfectly 
 like to what the programmers wanted us to feel the same, as they did when creating the game.
  Lots of non-standart quests and creepy-like atmosphere when solving them simply stuck in my mind 
 till now, and i'm sure to remember them in the far future.. This is one of the main purposes of 
 the game - to remind about itself in a player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonkeeper_1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 18, 2005 10:43 am PT
Review:  I don't really know whats exactly so great about the game, I just found it highly addictive.
  The music really sucks you into the game, the simple but well thought-of game-play, the deep storyline 
 and lots of action just give the game a great feeling.
  This made the game my all time favorite, and i played quite much games...
  Because of this game 
 i bought the "sort-of-follow-up" beyond divinity, I can tell you 1 thing, 
  Don't.
  Its nothing compared to this game, if you like this game, wait for divine divinity 2 which will 
 come out probably next year (www. larian. com for screens)
  
  To every 1 that is into rpg gaming and doesn't fear a lot of action, great new age music, a deep 
 storyline and outdated graphics, 
  try it!
  
  Its less then $10,- so you wont lose much if you don't like it (which i do not think will happen) .
 
  
  Overall, a superb game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Janmanden
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2005 5:31 pm PT
Review:  It took me 8 hours to finish the demo of Divine Divinity. It was a bit frustrating at times, but 
 it was somewhat interesting and kept me entertained for a while "killing time". It's not doing 
 the job of being a RPG nor an Action game very well and I it has left me with no desire to buy 
 it. I've already played Lionheart: Legacy of the Crusader and if I want a Diablo-style dungeon 
 crawl, Diablo II is the only way to go. Anyway.
  
  Divine Divinity is a Diablo-style dungeon crawl, in which your lone character will inch his way 
 through various enemy-infested areas, cutting down countless forgettable foes and it's pretty boring 
 and uninspiring combat-wise. It has a few redeeming qualities regarding character development, 
 dialogue and sound, but the overall appeal is low and forgettable.
  
  DD uses the same arms and armor descriptions as Diablo: durability, armor, attack rating and so 
 on. And every now and then, it needs to be repaired. DD uses the same vital stats: Strength, Agility, 
 Intelligence and Constitution. Hitpoints, mana pool, stamina it's all the same. You get 5 points 
 to distribute between your 4 vital stats after each level up and you get to chose one spell/skill 
 from among three "Way of the": Warrior, Mage and Survivor. Selection of class is just your initial 
 strength, but in the end, you can make any combination of skills that you like. Somewhat classless, 
 interesting.
  
  The interface is pretty straightforward and it's easy to move around the windows, the minimap, 
 interact with inventory and the environment, moving items from the inventory to the ground, use 
 spells and quaff potions. You can move some boxes, crates and junk on the ground around too, but 
 there is just very little reason to so. I don't understand why the inventory and equipment screen 
 has been split in two, it makes no sense and is a bit annoying. Just like targeting monsters, targeting 
 items and doors isn't that easy as it should be.
  
  Sometimes you'll encounter monsters that wants to talk a little first, letting you decide whether 
 you want to kill, or be killed by them right away or do a little quest for them. It's one or the 
 other. It's not a bad idea as it provides some info and content along the way. Other times you'll 
 witness 'witty' sketches about skeletons rattling on about the paradox of their existence, but 
 since you don't get a say on the matter it's kinda pointless. The branching dialogue is rather 
 limited. There is no "fun" implementation of a gruff low-intelligence warrior or character-based 
 dialogue here. 
  
  The action feels hectic and jerky, and it mostly just involves you left-clicking on enemies to 
 auto-attack them with your weapon and right-clicking on enemies to cast spells on them. Most enemies 
 rush straight at you, fast, and the speed of the game isn't adjustable, so you'll often find yourself 
 desperately trying to click on the moving targets to gain the initiative. Targeting isn't made 
 easy by the cursor, that never changes, and often you'll find yourself moving towards a spot instead 
 of attacking the enemy. Once an enemy falls dead, you'll need to quickly click on another. The 
 good thing is that you can quaff healing potions in combat. The bad thing is, that the combination 
 of swarming monsters and bad graphics makes it pretty hard to see, just what exactly is going on. 
 
  
  Eventually you'll run out of healing potions and die, unless you try and run to inch your way back 
 later. Upon death nothing really happens. You hear an "Argh!" and then silence. First time it happened 
 I was confused, I could still access the inventory and click around, but being unable to quaff 
 potions I finally decided, that I was really dead and it was time to reload.
  
  The Barter screen is nearly identical to that of Fallout: Being able to barter items and gold for 
 other items and gold. The good thing is that shops replenish fast on healing potions. The bad thing 
 is there is no barter skill, which is actually pretty strange, considering all the other survivor 
 skills. There is an alchemy skill, with which you create some potions on your own, if you have 
 the right ingredients and know the recipe. 
  
  Visibility is very, very low and you can be sure enemies will spot you first. The good thing is 
 that hostile monsters flash red on your minimap. The bad thing is that you can't target them until 
 they are within a few feet of you. Of course you need to get rid of all the blackness clouding 
 your map, to really see the enemies and the fact, that the view is fixed on your character, makes 
 moving over larger distances rather tedious.
  
  The sound is surprisingly good and the voice casting is pretty decent for a uh, fledgling developer (?) , 
 but that's really the only good part that sets it apart from being an otherwise low-res experience.
 
  
  The graphics are just plain awful. Reminiscent of DOS games from the early nineties. Looking at 
 graphics and gameplay, it's hard to understand, that this game was made two years after Diablo 
 II and Baldurs Gate II: Shadows of Amn. The indiscriminate use of colors and lack of contrast and 
 shadows between characters, monsters and background environment, manage to create some pretty messy 
 and blurry scenarios.
  
  I tilt on the fact that the game borrows some good ideas, that makes an... interesting mix, but 
 fails the implementation in itself. 
  
  Finding that Greg's review of Lionheart: Legacy of the Crusader fits this game a lot better than 
 the original I borrowed some of that. Names has been changed to protect the innocent.
  
  It is just a demo, of course, but it needs a lot of polish.
  
  If you like it, you should check 
 out Lionheart: Legacy of the Crusader and Arcanum as well. It's the same kind of messy combat, 
 but the graphics and content is a lot better.
  
  Examine the screen-shots or download the demo and see for yourself. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2005 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Most games nowadays require you to do a 30 minute tutorial or read through the manual before you 
 even begin to understand what you are doing, yet Divine Divinity is one of the few that you can 
 jump into and start having fun within as little as 5 minutes. 
  
  The gameplay/controls are much the same as Diablo (left-click = attack/move/operate, right-click 
 = cast spell/ability) , and the graphics are somewhat similar yet years better. That's where the 
 similarities end, instead of becoming a hack-and-slash game, Divine Divinity adds a story and numerous 
 side quests, and shows itself as no ordinary RPG. 
  
  Well, there is one more similarity with DIablo, the starting classes are pretty much the same; 
 you have a warrior, a thief, and a sorcerer. However, once you get into the game, your character 
 can learn any of the abilities from any of the other classes, only with less profeciency. So while 
 there are only 3 real classes, there are numerous ways you can actually play those characters, 
 giving you much more replayability than just 3 classes. You can also choose to be either male or 
 female of each class, which results in differing starting skills. 
  
  The gameworld is quite large, though not to the extent of Morrowind or Sacred. On the plus side, 
 Divine Divinity makes much, much, much (much!) better use of its gameworld by adding numerous quests, 
 and interesting quests at that. Unlike many other RPG's, Divine Divinity does a good job of adding 
 diversity to all of their quests, few of them are of the 'fetch this, kill that' type, which really 
 adds to the fun factor of this game. 
  
  The sound/music is also worth mentioning. The music is relativly simple and not to loud, which 
 really adds to the 'adventure feel'. Instead of the epic sounding music of Baldur's Gate II, Divine 
 Divinity gives you the feeling that you're a real adventurer, not an epic hero. 
  
  I really have no complaints with this game, which is quite amazing since I'm always complaining; 
 and there were never any moments where I yelled, "I hate this game", and threw it at a wall. All 
 in all, this game works well, and should give hours of enjoyment. If you've got the money to spare, 
 I would recommend investing it in Divine Divinity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nepti
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 7, 2004 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I purchased and played Divine Divinity when it was first released back in 2002. I managed to get 
 my character to around Level 30. Then my son was born and I stopped playing and never returned 
 to the game. That was a mistake. But for those of you who are parents already, you know that an 
 infant in the house sorta cramps your gaming style
  
  With the recent release of Beyond Divinity, completing Divine Divinity became a priority because 
 I wanted to experience the series with the story fresh in my head and the satisfaction of actually 
 completing this first game in the series (considering some of the post-dates of some recent player 
 reviews here on Gamespot, Id say Im not alone in this) . After loading up my prior save-game from 
 2002 I quickly realized that I was totally lost because the story and locations of things had all 
 become hazy, I decided to just start all over again. That wasnt a mistake.
  
  While the graphics are a bit dated now being nearly 2 years since its initial release, the graphics 
 are on par with other similarly looking games from 2002  I would say even slightly better than 
 Diablo II. Your weapons and armor are represented on your in-game character better than Diablo 
 II thats for sure.
  
  But anyone worth their computer role playing salt knows that while nice looking graphics are great, 
 its the game-play that really counts. And thats were Divine Divinity really shines. While Divine 
 Divinity isnt a revolutionary CRPG experience, it is quite literally an amalgam of many other 
 recent CRPGs in one package. If this were done poorly, it would have been a disaster. But the folks 
 at Larian did an excellent job bringing together a wide feature set and have delivered an exceptional 
 computer role-playing game experience.
  
  Outwardly, Divine Divinity plays very similarly to Diablo II. Killing monsters is done in real-time 
 and many times you are swarmed with monsters a-la Diablo II. But not to worry, you can pause the 
 action by pressing the spacebar if you need some time to think. Weapons and armor are also organized 
 very similarly as they are in Diablo II with items having attributes and descriptions (i. e. sword 
 of the owl) that can favorably (and sometimes unfavorably) alter the players attributes and skills. 
 Some items are also enchantable to further augment their benefits. While Divine Divinity doesnt 
 employ a skill tree (where one skill is a prerequisite to obtaining another skill) , everything 
 from melee abilities to caster spells are handled via the skill system (as opposed to having spell 
 casting broken out differently from non-spell skills) . Divine Divinitys skill set is huge, with 
 each skill capable of reaching five different ranks of potency. Also, unlike most CRPGs, you arent 
 restricted from any skills based on your class which allows the player to create a character with 
 a very unique capability set. Finally, my mage can repair items and pick locks! While these points 
 largely defined the game-play of Diablo II, this is just where Divine Divinity gets started.
  
  With just a modest amount of time invested into the game, the player will quickly realize that 
 unlike Diablo II, there is quite a good story unfolding with a good measure of (mostly) interesting 
 side-quests that compliment the main story quite well. The story telling is not quite on par with 
 Baldurs Gate II, but Divine Divinity is a close contender. The story is mostly told through conversations 
 with NPCs. Some of the more important story elements are actually spoken while the player must 
 read the vast majority of the incremental plot progressions. The voice acting is average with a 
 few notable exceptions both positive and negative. The story is also perpetuated by infrequent 
 out-of-game cut-scenes beginning when you first start a new game. Another feature worth mentioning 
 is the use of books to create atmosphere and history  this is done on the scale of Morrowind. 
 If you love immersing yourself with the fiction of a game-world via in-game books, Divine Divinity 
 is quite satisfying in that department. And like Morrowind, some books can improve your skills. 
 And some books can actually initiate quests
  
  While Baldurs Gate II told a terrific tale, its static pre-rendered and mostly non-interactive 
 backgrounds left a lot of players feeling somewhat disconnected from the gaming world. While the 
 game world of Divine Divinity is pre-rendered, just about every object on that game world can be 
 interacted with in some way. In short, objects you see in the game world are not pre-rendered, 
 they sit on top of the game world and can be interacted with. This interaction is deeper than the 
 interaction found in Ultima VII but not quite as deep as the more recent Arx Fatalis. Admittedly, 
 I am partial to this type of feature as I find an above-average level of object interaction to 
 greatly add to the immersion of a game  even when such interactions have nothing to do with the 
 main plot or side quests. And besides, I think its pretty safe to say that CRPGers dont want 
 their only interactions with the game world to be opening and closing doors or bashing barrels. 
 Dont like a chair where it is? Move it. Boxes covering up that hatch? Move them out of the way 
 maybe youll find an enchanted ring under them in the process. But Divine Divinity goes a bit further 
 than just that. There are several unique one-of-a-kind-quest-related object interactions that can 
 be performed in the game that are quite satisfying and really add to that this world is alive 
 feeling. The alchemy skill can also be used to interact with many of the flora and fauna found 
 throughout the game. Ive purposefully avoided giving specific examples because I dont want to 
 spoil anything for would-be players. But this is an area where Divine Divinity really shines.
 
  
  Like Morrowind, the player will eventually be able to acquire a house in the game. Its a bit expensive 
 to get the house, but thats the way it should be! This is a great feature because once you have 
 a house, you have a place to horde your loot. Since Divine Divinity is a 2D isometric game, its 
 also inherently easier to decorate and organize your home. Though certainly doable, I found this 
 to be a bit difficult in Morrowind.
  
  I found Divine Divinitys user interface to be very well done. The quest log conveniently organizes 
 your quests into complete and incomplete categories. You can view your inventory and your paper 
 doll at the same time so that you can easily compare statistics of items in your inventory to 
 those you are currently wearing. Setting up your function keys to potions or skills is a breeze 
 (its done the same way as in Diablo II) . In short, the interface gets the job done quickly and 
 is then out of your way so you can get back to playing.
  
  If you passed up Divine Divinity, you might want to consider giving it a try. Im still quite amazed 
 by this game and the wide feature set it delivers. Im equally amazed by how little fanfare and 
 recognition it received. Its a shame that such a thoughtful game largely escaped the consciousness 
 of the gaming community.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:48 pm PT
Review:  A lot of fun and better than the later game "Beyond Divinity," which was surprisingly bad. Here, 
 the gameplay, combat and RPG elements are generally well-done throughout the entire game. It plays 
 somewhat like Diablo but with _much_ more character development options in a very large world filled 
 with quests and a "big story." to tell. The 2D graphics actually look pretty good. It isn't perfect 
 though: some of the attempts at humor fail pretty badly in the story-line. It is very easy to create 
 a super-hero character that can kill anything with a few hits if you use a lot of the "freeze" 
 upgrades on your weapons. And the very last level is a pointless, long maze level that should have 
 never seen the light of day. The best part of the game are the RPG character-building elements. 
 You really can create different types of character and solve quests in different ways. Its a shame 
 the sequel to this game is so bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2004 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Divine Divinity is definitely one of those surprisingly good games. It has all the good aspects 
 of a well though out role playing game, including the ability to grow your character as you see 
 fit over time, a detailed story to follow and lots of side quests you can complete at your leisure 
 and when you feel like it.
  
  The art work that serves as the playing field in the game is pretty good and definitely adds to 
 the game. The music is great and adds a lot to the ambiance to the game.
  
  Unlike most RPGs, completing all of the quests and finding all of the special items can prove very 
 difficult in this game as there are a lot of items that are well hidden under barrels and boxes 
 and behind locked doors that you normally aren't allowed to go through (without causing the owners 
 to get upset) so it definitely gives you a sense that the game is not just a push-over game that 
 provides no challenge. There's definitely some difficulty there.
  
  It's definitely a very action oriented game as you have to spend most of your time fighting hordes 
 of bad guys. If you're fighting with magic, you'll find that the games turns into a "click the 
 mouse as fast as you can" type of game but given the fast pace of the game, it still stays interesting.
 
  
  There's not a lot of it in the game, but most of the voice acting ranges from not so good to fairly 
 bad so I would definitely have to ding the game on that aspect.
  
  I also didn't like the fact that in the end, the game didn't *feel* as large as it was becaue it 
 was divided into so few regions. You spend most of the initial part of the game fighting across 
 what turns out to be a huge area with a number of towns and dungeons in one place. Then there are 
 basically three aditional, smaller areas that you have to fight through as well and simply the 
 small number of areas (which add up to a large area alltogether) takes away from any feeling of 
 working your way from region to region. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondZork
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 9, 2004 10:59 am PT
Review:  Definately worth the experience. Though I haven't played through the entire game, in fact only 
 about 15-20 hours of play so far, I can truely say this game is unique and well worth the play. 
 
  I liked the Baulder's Gate Series, Dungeon Seige, IWD, Wizardry 8, a hopefully patched TOEE, I 
 didn't like Lionheart, Diablo, Arcanum, Pool of Radiance. I'm not a fan of simple hack n' slash 
 games, especially with random map creation, but this game elevates itself way above and beyond 
 any such label. It's 2d graphics engine is somewhat dated, but take my word the art and models 
 are terrific. The result is that though it is dated this game looks very good. But more importantly, 
 it sounds FANTASTIC. The musical score is unparalleled, from the opening cutscene to the options 
 page to the first level of play, different swooning symphonies provide a very immersive experience. 
 Also, sound effects are excellent resulting in a satisfying combat feel. 
  Though the game begins with a vague, hack n' slash feel with a slight lack of polish (in terms 
 of the story and scope) a few hours in and you quickly realize it is a deep story driven RPG, which 
 is sweet. If you buy Beyond Divinity like I did, you'll get a free copy of this so why not give 
 it a try first? I am and I'm stoked to look forward to Beyond Divinity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 24, 2003 9:11 am PT
Review:  I wish that Divine Divinity had won RPG of the year on 2002, because it was the best. When you 
 play this game, you can tell that the developers are RPG fans, and they truly know what makes a 
 great RPG. If you have ever complained that RPG's focus too much on sexiness over substance, then 
 "Divine Divinity" is the game for you. 
  
  This game doesn't offer a lot in the way of originality. What makes 'Divine Divinity' such a good 
 game is that it combines the strengths and experiences of so many other successful RPG's, while 
 discarding the genre's usual faults. In addition, it makes the right tradeoffs between production 
 values and core gameplay -- tradeoffs that should be made more often in the PC gaming business. 
 This is not to say that the graphics are crummy. They arent. In fact, they are very good. But 
 they arent state-of-the-art, because they dont have to be.
  
  The game certainly puts its worst foot forward when it introduces itself. When you start it up, 
 it screams "Diablo clone from hell", with the red bulb for health, blue bulb for mana, and yellow 
 bar for fatigue. However, the game quickly shows that is is a great open-ended RPG, and not just 
 a dungeon crawl. The world is huge. Massive. Gargantuan. Morrowind-like. The game is truly open-ended, 
 allowing you to wander and travel at will, exploring where you wish, and solving whatever quests 
 you want. You could probably play for 150 hours if you wanted to without starting over, although 
 it takes more like about 80 hours to finish. 
  
  The game uses 2D graphics, which are not breathtaking, but still good. The environments look excellent, 
 and rarely look repetitive. There are mountain caverns, sewers, forests swamps, cities, etc. The 
 game is loaded with hundred's of NPC's many of which look unique and have unique dialog trees. 
 You can tell all of the games major NPCs and monsters from one another by their appearance: this 
 is rare in an RPG this big. The soundtrack for the game is not remarkable, but it is still very 
 good and has a lot of different sounds for the game's different areas. RPG fans will be pleased 
 to see that most of the quests are not of the mundane 'FedEx' variety. They involve solving mysteries, 
 exposing criminals, and accomplishing military objectives. 
  
  "Divine Divinity" excels the most in the RPG's most underappreciated area: the interface. DD's 
 superior interface is a prime example of how this game gets the nuts and bolts right. Any detail 
 of the game, whether it is inventory, skills, or the map, can be quickly and efficiently accessed. 
 Multiple windows can be kept open to make tasks easier. Inventory management is refreshingly easy 
 to use, and so is the in-game journal. The game has an in-game mini-map, as well as an attractive 
 map screen with 3 zoom levels. The user can assign the 12 Function keys as shortcuts to almost 
 any item or action. 'Divine Divinity' rarely bogs down inventory management sessions, or any of 
 the other tedious shortcomings of most RPG's. The game takes roughly 80-100 hours to complete, 
 and they are all quality hours. 
  
  By far, 'Divine Divinity's' only serious fault is its horrendous saving and loading times. The 
 game's 'Quick' save might be the slowest quick save ever created. Transitions that require a loading 
 are rare, but when they occur, they provide a good opportunity for doing household chores. 
  It's hard to describe why a game like this is so good, because this game does so many little things 
 right that you have to experience them to appreciate them. You might not fall in love with the 
 game at first. Once you do, you will see that "Divine Divinity" has few faults, and is a lot of 
 fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 29, 2003 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. In fact.. this is what i alwasy felt Diablo 2 should have looked and felt 
 like. If you read the other review they explain things pretty well. The game has a great visual 
 look. Much more interactive then Diablo 2 or even NWN to be honest. Seem much more to interact 
 with. 
  
  The music nad sound is nothign short of outstanding. The only reason I didnt give it 10 is I experience 
 a weird sound glitch every once in a while on opening barrels that sounds like static not sure 
 why. Also maybe one or two voice actors are a bit too far over the top but over all the voice acting, 
 music and sound effects are all top notch.
  
  The game is essentially Diablo 2 with the following improvements:
  
  - Much better graphics.
 
  - Much more free flowing chracter development.
  - Much more story and quest elements.
  - Much better story elements overall.
  - Better sound on every level.
  - Better character animation.
 
  - I think a much bigger game world.
  
  The game really is excellent and you can get it for around $20 now. GET it already!!
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightshiftgamer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 7, 2003 12:38 am PT
Review:  Divine Divinity is the the best RPG I've played since the Baldur's Gate series of games. It grabed 
 me from the begining and never let me go til the end. I played the demo and couldn't wait till the 
 full release. I liked the fact that you were not stuck playing one type of charater but could change 
 as you leveled up, your thief could become a fighter or a wizard. It had a great story as well, my 
 only complaint was the ending was a little bit of a let down. But over all a great game. I was reaiiy 
 let down by Never Winter Nights but luckly I had Divine Divinity to fall back on. hopefully there 
 will be a sequal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecheese001
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 6, 2003 9:53 am PT
Review:  The last game that I ever lost sleep on because it was so addicting was that gem of a game Phantasy 
 Star .. (Sega master system) The game was the First role playing type game that had me hooked. On 
 the box : gaurenteed of 70hrs..., Even the cartidge had a lithum battery in it ..... Seems I played 
 every day and night for hours on end and never felt like the game would end.. Now this game Divine 
 Divinity, another sleeper game comes out :) Man some years have gone by to get hooked all over 
 again.
  
  Thanks to every one in the reader reviews who helped me make a decision. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
