-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: DMZ: North Korea
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/dmznorthkorea/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Very short.
 You'll forget all about it in the morning.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ridiculous plot.
 Enemies have lousy artificial intelligence.
 Murky, indistinct visuals that look unfinished.
 No multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.3
Critic Score: 2.3, 4.9 Review (s)
User Score: 4.9, 85 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Vivendi Games
Genre: Action
Date:     Dec 12, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A date with Kim Jong II would be more enjoyable than this shooter. 

  Of all the weird and wacky crimes committed by North Korean despot Kim Jong Il, some of the weirdest 
 and wackiest were the kidnappings of Japanese civilians for such disparate duties as training spies 
 and making movies. Still, that was a pretty good scheme, at least for an evil dictator, because 
 nobody would willingly sign up for a tour of duty in Pyongyang. It's also a tactic that developer 
 Jarhead Games (known for such straight-to-Wal-Mart classics as World War II Sniper: Call to Victory) 
 might want to adopt for DMZ: North Korea, because nobody would willingly play this horrible third-person 
 shooter.  

          You would think that a covert mission beyond the Korean DMZ might be a bit more, um, covert? 
     

  There are so many awful things to discuss here that it's hard to decide where to start. But let's 
 begin with the plot, which is B-movie absurdity at its finest. Whoever came up with this saga about 
 an American commando waging a one-man war against North Korea hasn't opened a newspaper in a few 
 years, as the story deals with discovering whether or not the nation has an "under the radar" nuclear-weapons 
 program under way. Yeah, you really need to send in the troops to find that out.  

  Want more chuckles from the writing? Your code name is "Loveless." Every line of dialogue sounds 
 like it was snapped off while chomping a stogie. The opening spiel from your boss back at HQ is 
 all about getting "intel" and sneaking around, but by mission three you're calling in air strikes 
 to blow up whole North Korean military bases. Mission information is transmitted to you on a laptop 
 while en route to assignments. In the opening mission, you actually get the particulars while piloting 
 a rubber dinghy to the North Korean coast in the dead of the night. Nothing like putting less time 
 into planning these covert ops needed to save the free world than the average housewife spends 
 on writing up a grocery list. Also, you have to take photos of many major objectives, which doesn't 
 always make sense. It's understandable to snap pictures of a missile, but when you're also grabbing 
 shots of assassinations, either you're a ghoul or somebody back in Washington doesn't trust you. 

  Of course, even the stupidest story can mask a pretty good game. Alas, DMZ: North Korea's gameplay 
 matches its lame premise and script. While the look has been patterned on Splinter Cell based on 
 the way that Loveless wears a Sam Fisher-style frogman suit and night-vision goggles, the game 
 is a kill-'em-all Rambo affair patterned on the shooter design template circa 1997. So ignore the 
 box-cover images; there is no stealth meter, hence no need to determine if you're invisible in 
 the shadows or as obvious as a sheik in suburbia -- as silent as death or as loud as Sgt. Pepper's 
 Lonely Hearts Club Band. Here you just stomp from point A to point B, throw a few switches, gun 
 down everything that moves, try to act surprised when enemy reinforcements arrive on the way out 
 of Dodge -- you know the drill, move along, nothing to see here.  

  But DMZ doesn't even do a good job of sticking to the basics. There are only a handful of weapons, 
 all of which are dull shooter standards like submachine guns and rocket-propelled grenades, and 
 all come with a rat-a-tat whine that most developers jettisoned with their Ad Lib soundcards. Most 
 are nearly impossible to aim, too. Automatic weapons have such a kick that you can't accurately 
 target enemies unless you're on top of them, and even then you're best off aiming at the ground 
 and letting the recoil do the work for you. You can take a break from the shooting and do some 
 driving, but clunky vehicle controls make it as hard to drive a jeep as it is to hit the broadside 
 of a barn with a combat shotgun.  

  Artificial intelligence is awful. Enemies run around like idiots whenever a firefight begins. This 
 is a step above other awful shooters where the bad guys act deaf, blind, and paralyzed while you 
 plug them from 10 paces away (although you can shoot the hat off of the odd enemy here without 
 him even flinching) , yet still annoying in that they sprint so fast that they outrun bullets. It 
 feels more like you're playing paintball with a bunch of third-rate Flashes than engaging in deadly 
 combat with villainous enemies. At least your foes die superdramatic deaths when the lead finally 
 catches up to them, thanks to an over-the-top use of rag-doll physics.  

  Visuals add to the problems. Everything in the game is indistinct. Character and vehicle models 
 seem half finished and even oddly surreal, as dying enemies often briefly morph into Mr. Fantastic 
 and flail arms long enough to drag on the ground when dying. Buildings are completely barren. And 
 the satellite-styled overhead map is tough to read, because it consists of mashes of green terrain 
 and colored blobs representing enemy soldiers and objectives.  

  Maps are often overly long and convoluted, with a lot of dead ends and odd twists and turns making 
 it fairly easy to get lost. Nighttime missions are so pitch black that cranking up the in-game 
 gamma setting does little to lighten the gloom. In the daytime, when you can sort of figure out 
 where you should be going, bloom effects are so extreme that it sometimes looks like everything 
 has already been nuked. A bigger obstacle to getting around properly is the lack of an on-demand 
 save option. Here, there are just console-style automatic saves at checkpoints, and these are often 
 very far apart. Sometimes you have to pass two or three mission objectives just to get a checkpoint. 

          Loveless was never one to waste time, so he spent a few spare moments on the chopper to 
 North Korea updating his MySpace page.     

  Last and least, even though it's ridiculous to complain about a terrible game not being long enough, 
 it should still be noted that DMZ: North Korea has an abbreviated solo campaign and no multiplayer. 
 Even if you can manage to struggle through the entire game (Magic 8 Ball says: "Very doubtful") , 
 you're still going to wrap up your violations of North Korea's sovereignty in no more than six 
 or seven hours. The only thing that will keep you in the glorious republic any longer than that 
 are the bugs that occasionally lock up the game and force a retreat to the desktop and a manual 
 shutdown.  

  Here's the point in bad-game reviews where a few more putdowns are usually stuffed in. But if you've 
 taken the time to read this far, you've already given DMZ: North Korea more of your life than it 
 warrants, so let's cut this short and just wrap things up. Oh, OK. Here's one more -- you can't skip 
 any of the cutscenes, and there are a lot of them.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cobraman007
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes reviews can be a little too hard on an "average" game. DMZ North Korea is one of those 
 games. I'm not saying that this is one of the best games I've ever played- it's not- but if you 
 like 3rd person shooters, and can purchase this game for under 10 bucks, then you'll definitely 
 get your money's worth. Regardless of what you've read, the game is not short, it's just right. 
 
  
  STORY:
  The story is something to do with your mission to discover and inhibit nuclear capabilities in 
 North Korea. Does it really matter? Sure the story is not going to be awarded with a Pulitzer prize, 
 but you're not expecting that from a game like this. Everything is based off completing guerrilla-style 
 missions, and most of them are great fun and excitement. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The game, unfortunately, has dated graphics. But on the positive side, you can probably run this 
 at its highest specs. The graphics at the higher settings look much better, and are very clear 
 and sharp. Some neat effects include fog, rain, and night vision in areas where visibility is difficult. 
 
  
  SOUND AND MUSIC:
  Music and sound effects are surprisingly good for a game like this. I like the thunderstorm effects 
 and sounds. The game also has a really cool, action movie techno score that keeps you adrenalized. 
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The A. I. is also quite a bit dated, and you will sometimes find enemies who are not very good at 
 chasing you, and come straight at you with no strategy. There are many areas where enemies are 
 hidden (snipers) , and clustered behind buildings; this brings a nice element of surprise to the 
 game. Don't expect any distinct characteristics or dialogue from these enemies though. Cutscenes 
 between missions are short and to the point on what you need to do next. 
  
  The world is pretty limited in what you can do: you can't open most doors, you can't break windows, 
 you can't use the environment, and your path is mostly limited to one direction. The game does 
 has enough checkpoints, so that you don't have to restart from a far off point. 
  
  Weapons and effects are also very minimal, but there is plenty of ammunition throughout. I like 
 to use the semi auto SR to snipe out bad guys from afar. I usually stay on high ground for good 
 visibility and tp provide me sufficient time to take out enemies who try to rush me. The assault 
 rifle provides sniping and close range fire power. Since my style is not stealth, I hardly ever 
 used the silenced pistol. I never got much use out of the claymores, grenades, and C4 explosives. 
 You can even drive army jeeps and use their chain guns for short distances. 
  
  SUMMARY:
  If you miss the days of the late 90's 3rd person shooters, then this will bring you back. This 
 is a game you can play out of the box, and almost without reading any directions, hints, or walkthroughs. 
 As simple and fun as an arcade game- without dropping the quarters in.
  
  TIPS:
  *Use night vision to get you through low visibility areas.
  
  *Use binoculars and the zoom 
 on them to survey areas. 
  
  *Most rifles have a scope on them.
  
  *Always remember that most of the missions keep you moving forward. So if you get stuck, go to 
 the last place since the game almost never requires you to backtrack. 
  
  *Always use the "F1" key to see the map where you are, and where you need to go. Here you can also 
 see the objectives you need to do, and which ones you have done. Look around carefully if you get 
 stuck. There's an area where you have to find a rope on some boulders and climb it to the next 
 level. 
  
  *When approaching a group of enemies with the army jeep, you can run over enemies. You can also 
 back the Jeep in their direction to point the chain gun towards them and blast away. 
  
  *Shoot required photographs at the exact spot when it tells you too (don't move forward or around) . 
 Shoot different photo angles until it tells you the objective is accomplished- only then move on. 
 
  
  *Headshots are the best way to go.
  
  
  COMPLETE LEVEL BREAKDOWN (10 missions)
  
  Curious Cat
  Retrieval
  Red Rover
  Silent Phoenix
  Grim Flock
  Broken Wings
  Roadblock
 
  Derailment
  Into the Den
  Last Rites (The End)
  
  COBRAMAN SS 007
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TekkenMaster606
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible. I should just copy this game is terrible a million times. Big Rigs type 
 stuff here. The graphics are awful, the sound makes your ears bleed and the gameplay is, just really, 
 really bad. It's buggy as soon as you install it. There are free mods for other games better than 
 this one. It feels like it was meant to cash in on the third person shooter craze going on right 
 now. Don't even bother, it's that bad. Vivendi, why waste your time on this 2nd class product? 
 Don't buy this, don't borrow it, don't even look at it on the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriZZleMayHem
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Im still playing this game and I like it alot. Control is similar to Splinter Cell but you can 
 go in guns blazing. Its not a perfect game though. The enemy AI is stupid at times, no multiplayer 
 and its a VERY linear game. On the plus side it is a pretty realistic game and it deals with real-life 
 current events concerning the nuclear crisis in North Korea. Lots of cool guns, you can pick up 
 enemy guns and use mounted guns on vehicles. Plenty of objectives other than just killing bad guys. 
 Im have not been impressed with most games that have came out recently, but this Tactical shooter 
 will get my vote. Its not groundbreaking and it doesnt have super good graphics, but the gameplay 
 and plot is SOLID. GREAT GAME! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
