-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dogs of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/dogsofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 31, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 6.0, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 5.3, 26 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: TalonSoft
Developer: Silicon Dreams
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jul 30, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dogs of War seems not only unpolished, but also unfinished. 

 Though it has recently delved into other genres, TalonSoft's bread and butter has always been historical, 
 turn-based war games. In spite of excellent reviews for games such as The Operational Art of War 
 and East Front, none of the company's games have been particularly successful commercially. That 
 might explain why TalonSoft decided to publish Dogs of War, an action-oriented futuristic real-time 
 strategy game first released in Britain. Originally scheduled to be titled in the States as "WarMonkeys," 
 TalonSoft wisely changed the name to something a little grittier. Unfortunately, an even better 
 decision probably would have been to pass altogether on publishing this underachieving and frustrating 
 game.   

  The story in Dogs of War is no more humdrum than what you'll find in any number of real-time strategy 
 games, but what it lacks in originality it makes up for in brevity. Roughly two centuries in the 
 future, Earth has begun colonizing planets to replace its dwindling resources, and things go so 
 smoothly at the very first outpost on Primus IV that it's quickly recognized as the model on which 
 all future colonies should be built. But that was before the appearance of the Mantai, a buglike 
 species that systematically attacked both the colonists and their machinery. Although the Mantai 
 were driven back, Earth pretty much gave up on Primus IV and its inhabitants until a scientist 
 discovered SL-18, one of those all-purpose metals so common in real-time strategy games. The colonists 
 get rich selling the stuff, but they haven't forgotten how the Imperial government back on Earth 
 abandoned them. And when a new Emperor imposes a draconian tax on all off-world colonies, the Primus 
 IV colonists decide they've had enough. They hire a mercenary group called the WarMonkeys to seize 
 control of their planet.   

  As the game begins, Imperial forces have landed an invasion force to subdue the uprising. In the 
 single-player mode, you can embark on two eight-mission campaigns controlling either the Imperial 
 Alliance or the WarMonkeys, and later on you can play a five-mission Mantai campaign. Like the 
 recent fully 3D real-time strategy game Ground Control, Dogs of War eschews base production and 
 resource management and instead gives you a supply of credits with which to purchase vehicles and 
 troops. Furthermore, your units that survive become more effective as they gain experience. Unit- 
 and 3D-camera control in Dogs of War is also similar to Ground Control, except that you can command 
 individual units, as opposed to squads in Ground Control, and also command units from a behind-the 
 back, third-person perspective.   

  Dogs of War is supposed to let you buy your units before a given mission. This is a decent idea 
 that the game doesn't use to its advantage very often. Only two of eight Imperial missions let 
 you pick your units, while the WarMonkeys campaign lets you do so three of eight times. The Mantai 
 campaign also provides just two scenarios featuring this option. Eventually, being able to buy 
 units at all just seems like a waste because the feature is used so inconsistently.   

  Dogs of War is fairly impressive visually, as it has lots of good special effects like smoke trails 
 and brilliant explosions that bring the action to life, while the units themselves look good, if 
 not great. On the other hand, the game's voice acting is grating, boorish, and at times, unnecessarily 
 offensive. You might also be stunned to hear a British accent shouting, "Let's get those f***ers!" 
 in the middle of a tutorial.    

 Then again, you might not even notice the dialogue since you'll probably be too busy wrestling with 
 the game's interface. You can easily pan the camera forward, backward, to the left, and to the 
 right using the keyboard, but camera rotation and pitch using the mouse are both far too erratic. 
 Then there is the sniper mode, which forces you to aim at targets only by using the display in 
 the minimap. Directly controlling your units is not quite as cumbersome, but the mouse/keyboard 
 combination used for aiming and movement is not particularly responsive. In addition, although 
 identifying and selecting your units is fairly easy in open terrain, quickly finding and selecting 
 them during battles fought amidst towering skyscrapers or other dense scenery results in so much 
 awkward camera manipulation that your attention strays from the most important issue: tactical 
 control.   

  Setting waypoints is a vital aspect of real-time strategy games, but Dogs of War botches it by 
 assigning the shift key both for setting waypoints  and  for allowing camera rotation and tilting. 
 Whether you use the mouse or keyboard for camera control, the net effect is that you can't scroll 
 the main display and set waypoints at the same time. A workaround is to assign waypoints on the 
 minimap, but it doesn't provide the level of detail you might prefer.   

  Many conventional real-time strategy games let you quickly switch your main display to any point 
 on the map by left-clicking on the corresponding point in the minimap, and then let you order your 
 selected units to the new location by right-clicking. But in Dogs of War, you have to double-click 
 the  right  mouse button to switch the screen using the minimap. This creates a special problem: 
 You can't select a new area on the minimap while a unit is selected, or it will start heading to 
 this new area, because movement is also controlled with right mouseclicks. Just how cumbersome 
 is the interface? In the climactic battle as either the Imperial Alliance or the WarMonkeys, you're 
 allowed to control only a single unit. Apparently even the developers knew something wasn't quite 
 right.   

  It's also worth mentioning that the missions in Dogs of War are mostly scripted, as the absence 
 of a quick skirmish option proves there really isn't any enemy artificial intelligence to speak 
 of. There's nothing particularly wrong with scripted missions - provided that the enemy units do 
 not get stuck at the edge of the map or that your own units do not get jammed into narrow passages 
 in a headlong rush to reach an objective. For example, in one mission an enemy unit was basically 
 hidden from fire because my forces couldn't target it at the side of the map. On a separate occasion 
 I spent nearly 30 minutes trying to lob an artillery shell onto a lone enemy vehicle in order to 
 end the mission. I finally did it - only to realize there was apparently one other enemy somewhere 
 on the map, and without a chopper there was no way to track it down. An option to save progress 
 mid mission would have alleviated part of the problem, but unfortunately the developers didn't 
 include it - perhaps to offset the campaigns' short lengths.   

  You can't blame TalonSoft for trying to grab a piece of the real-time strategy pie, but unfortunately 
 the publisher settled for an uninspired and generally unsatisfying game. Dogs of War seems not 
 only unpolished, but also unfinished - and the problems are so inherent in the design that a patch 
 wouldn't likely salvage it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
