-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dominions II: The Ascension Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/dominions2theascensionwars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 20, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 72 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Shrapnel Games
Developer: Illwinter Design
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Nov 14, 2003

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dominions II is a game that's brimming with ideas of what a fantasy strategy genre game should be. 
 Unfortunately, it's also saddled with tons of micromanagement issues and a cumbersome interface. 
 

  Dominions II: The Ascension Wars is a throwback to days past, when guys who worked in garages while 
 churning out strategy games was the industry norm rather than the exception. What those games lacked 
 in production values, they made up for in deep strategic gameplay. Clearly influenced by such classics 
 as Master of Magic, Dominions is a game that's brimming with ideas -- perhaps too many -- of what a 
 fantasy strategy game should be. In its effort to include everything  and  the proverbial kitchen 
 sink, Dominions is a game that offers tremendous depth but also has an unwieldy user interface 
 and a prodigious amount of micromanagement.  

          While plotting all of your strategic movements, Dominions II will often make you feel like 
 a general. Here's an attack on a neighboring province.     

  The game's basic premise is that the god of the world has disappeared, and the race is on to replace 
 him. Your job, as a pretender god, is to defeat all other claimants to the heavenly throne. To 
 do this, you have to increase your religious dominion, either peacefully through conversion or 
 militarily through conquest. Basically, Dominions is about a holy war in a fantasy middle-Earth. 

  Right off the bat, it's clear that this game is not for the faint of heart. You need to be a dedicated 
 strategy gamer to get past the relatively lackluster graphics and the steep learning curve. Your 
 first goal is to choose a nation that your pretender god will preside over. Just to illustrate 
 some of the depth and complexity in the game, we'll point out that each nation is made up of a 
 different race, each with different abilities, units, and creatures. Meanwhile, each pretender 
 god has its own unique powers and abilities, and that affects the nation they lead in both good 
 and bad ways. Playing the nation of man with the dragon pretender can be easier than playing with 
 the vampress pretender, and so on and so on. You also choose what school of magic to specialize 
 in, what kind of fortress to build (this affects many aspects of the game) , and any special customizations 
 for your nation. There are a dizzying number of potential combinations so far, and you haven't 
 even started playing the game.  

  Once you do begin, you're dropped onto a world that's divided into provinces. As with other strategy 
 games, you start off with just your home province and must expand from there. Each province has 
 a native race living in it. Conquer the province and you can start building that race's military 
 units. And, not unlike a wargame, each province is also rated for income, supply, resources, defense, 
 and unrest. So, once again, the complexity and depth of the game show through in the large number 
 of variables at play.  

  Dominions II is a turn-based game but not in the traditional computer strategy game mold. Rather, 
 the system is very similar to those found in strategy board games. Turns are divided into two phases. 
 During the planning phase, players plot their moves simultaneously. You issue movement orders, 
 adjust production queues, research and cast spells, forge magic items, assemble and organize armies, 
 bid on mercenaries, construct buildings, and so on. Once everyone has finished the planning phase, 
 the game executes the host phase by resolving all actions and automatically generating the results 
 of all battles. The results of the host phase are then displayed, and players begin a new planning 
 phase again.  

  This is a game that can satisfy the dreams of fantasy strategy gamers everywhere. You can do virtually 
 anything you want, and the possibilities are almost limitless. However, as you can probably gather, 
 it translates into a lot of micromanagement each turn. And it gets progressively worse the larger 
 your empire becomes. You get more provinces to manage, more production queues to set, more armies 
 to organize, and so on. There's  a lot  of busywork that you have to do. In fact, there's so much 
 that you may find yourself wondering if an empire is worth the hassle. For example, the production 
 system is geared so that you can only churn out so many units per turn, and these units aren't 
 allowed to move unless you have a commander leading them. You end up having to constantly shuffle 
 unit stacks around the map just so you can gather and organize your forces.  

  The army formation option is an interesting feature. Not only can you group units into squads, 
 but you can lay out formations on the battlefield, and you can issue tactical commands in advance. 
 So it's possible to arrange it so that pikemen are up front, archers are in the rear, and cavalry 
 are on the flanks. However, that's about the extent of your influence, because combat is a completely 
 noninteractive affair. Since it takes place in the host phase, it's automatically resolved. The 
 best you can hope to do is watch a replay of the battle. However, it's hard to gauge what's going 
 on due to the general lack of feedback, in addition to the slow pace and the 1998-era graphics. 

  The overall game suffers from a lack of graphical polish, but that's to be expected considering 
 the game was developed by just two people. To their credit, some of the maps in the game are reminiscent 
 of the hand-drawn maps found in thick fantasy novels like  The Lord of the Rings . However, other 
 maps are poorly drawn, so it's hard to discern any features on them. Also, units are made up of 
 a crude collection of sprites that look like they're refugees from a decade-old strategy game. 
 Furthermore, the game renders the 3D terrain in battles to such an extent that it's possible to 
 bring a modern, high-end system to its knees. It's completely inexplicable.  

  The game's turn-based system makes it ideal for multiplay, and the board game-like rules allow 
 players to all make their moves simultaneously before resolving everything in the host phase. However, 
 you have to know someone else with the game beforehand, since the game lacks a server browser or 
 any kind of matchmaking capability. So it may be hard to rustle up a single opponent, let alone 
 the 17 supported in the game. Human competition is preferable to the AI, though. The computer opponents 
 are either pushovers or nightmarish. As the computer handles all the busywork in maintaining and 
 growing an empire effortlessly, it's not unusual to see it marshalling huge armies on your borders 
 while you struggle to assemble a meager defense.  

          You can only watch replays of battles, and the presentation and graphics are straight out 
 of a '90s-era strategy game.     

  Finally, Dominions packs a steep learning curve, yet somehow it ships without a tutorial or any 
 kind of walk-through in the manual. The developers tout that the interface has been streamlined 
 from the original Dominions, but it's still a cumbersome system to learn. It's also inexplicable 
 as to why a game as complex as this doesn't ship with a tutorial -- either in-game or in the manual. 
 Instead, the best option available is to download a 19-page, fan-written walk-through from the 
 Internet.  

  As previously mentioned, Dominions is a game of staggering depth and complexity -- qualities that 
 most fans of strategy games highly appreciate. However, even for some of the most hardcore fans 
 of turn-based strategy, the sheer potential of Dominions II will not be enough to salvage it from 
 the overwrought and cumbersome gameplay.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Neverness
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised to come across this game though I was very hesitant when I first started 
 playing. First and foremost, the graphics are extremely dated, i. e. you can count the pixels that 
 make up the sprites. Then again, not everyone is an artist so I withheld judgment.
  
  The game itself shows a great depth of knowledge about many things fantasy and I found this to 
 be very impressive. The designers have created over a dozen factions that stretch from King Arthur 
 mythology to Norse to Undead to Lovecraft mythos to Maya and even more. They really did their homework 
 and that helps create an engrossing experience if you like that kind of stuff.
  
  The game plays out with you as a god who is fighting all the other gods for supremacy of the lands. 
 The sheer number of gods you can choose is also large and diverse. You then setup your god's magical 
 abilities and other attributes then go off to bludgeon all others in submission.
  
  Gameplay is very simple. The map is divided into provinces and nothing here is too exotic -- more 
 people means more gold from taxes, mountains mean more resources so you can recruit more units, 
 special areas provide magic gems each turn that you need to cast spells and so forth. 
  
  Battles are run automatically and the computer does a pretty decent job of using your troops well. 
 You can setup various tactics for your squads such as flank, fire missles, cast spells, and the 
 like and this can make the difference in some battles.
  
  Overall this game is very fun though it suffers from low production values. If you only play games 
 to get off on the graphics then this is not the game for you. However, if you enjoy novel and deep 
 strategy then Dominions 2 does not disappoint.
  
  My biggest gripe is that the guys at Ilwinter are extremely proud of their work and this game is 
 very expensive. The sequel Dominions 3 is even more expensive -- both titles cost more than a new 
 release PC game. In a way, I felt a little cheated at first but I grew to enjoy the game and now 
 feel it was money well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjornishigi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Dominions 2 is a solid strategic offering from the indie game continuum (check out shrapnel games 
 and gametunnel) . Its important for many reasons to support indie games and the primary reason would 
 be that they are more detailed and engrossing. Indie developers have the freedom to articulate 
 their artistic vision without the constraints of corporate interests. That translates generally 
 into much more entertaining less formulaic gameplay. This is true for everything in the world at 
 large where the worship of money creates a monoculture of homogeniety. Sic transit gloria mundes.
 
  
  This game gives you a ton of unique civs to choose from (around 17) all with widely varying attributes 
 except that the undead seem particularly strong... Each civ and each unit have curious stories 
 and vivid descriptions about them which helps to flesh out the dominions universe. There are water 
 based races too which is cool, from a strategic perspective. Gameplay takes place on different 
 overhead maps. Community contributes additional maps and material/game tweaks if you want it. The 
 combat auto resolves on a 3d-ish battlefield after you determine setup/spells/strategy. Units are 
 funky 2d characters with minimal animation but i like them. Multiplayer is possible through some 
 ancient file sharing e-mail technique which just seems like too much of a pain to bother with which 
 is too bad because this game being so much like a board top game would probably rock . Hopefully 
 this is addressed in Dom3. The gui/interface isnt exactly intuitive but it is charming in its own 
 rustic way. The magic system in this game is extensive and varied and really shines. I will probably 
 never get around to utilizing all the available spells and global enchantments or to crafting all 
 the possible magic items.. and that is a pretty amazing thing to be said for a game. Got depth? 
 Abysmal depths of tartarian proportions filled with the arcane stench of unknown evil? Count me 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboote
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Other reviews, both by Gamespot and the player reviews here, have covered most salient elements 
 of dominions 2 gameplay, so I will comment here only on its normative effect upon me and you as 
 a potential player.
  
  I am writing this review because the other players have given Dom2 a rating of at least 9, which 
 I think is misleading *according to GameSpot criteria*, which also include graphics and sound. 
 The graphics of Dom2 are 15 years old and clumsy, at best, while the sound is the most abominable 
 conglomeration of squeakings and peepings I have ever heard. Fortunately, one can turn the sound 
 off (which I do) and listen to music. 
  
  Firstly, the gameplay in Dominions 2 requires a lot of getting used to, but once you have learned 
 how to master it, it takes off. Lack of documentation is more than made up by an avid fan-base. 
 
  If you like fantasy multiplayer strategy, this is a great game. If you are looking for a challenging 
 SP experience, look elsewhere, since Dominions 2 is simply too complex for its AI to handle. 
 
  If you do not mind spend hours on a turn micromanaging every item your commanders can carry, every 
 smith forging these items, spellcasters slaving away at research and casting, and moving troops 
 around, then this game will be just right for you. It requires a lot of thought, and is rewarding. 
 Of course, not all of your thought will always go rewarded, since tactical battles are resolved 
 by the AI, and you have no control over your individual units. This, however, is usually a good 
 idea.
  
  Secondly, however, Dominions 2 is plagued not only with poor AI, but with a clumsy, counter-intuitive 
 interface that detracts a lot from gameplay. Even after getting used to it, it is unpretty and 
 cumbersome. 
  While the fan community is avid, they overlook much of the developer's shortcomings, up to and 
 including support. This is because Illwinter (the developers) is made up of 3 persons, all of which 
 do not work in the gaming industry full time (they are schoolteachers, IIUC) . This is all well 
 and good, and sympathetic. It does not, however, justify the poor support for a game whose price 
 is still running at over 50 dollars. While Illwinter has released 16 patches, most of the changes 
 made are cosmetic. 
  
  All in all, Dominions 2 is a fine game, and one which no other hobby game developers could have 
 duplicated with such skill -- but one which nevertheless suffers from lack of funding, professionality, 
 and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: user5689
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:21 am PT
Review:  Like i said, very complex, and almost overwhelming at first what with all the buttons and so on. 
 I suggest you download the demo before you buy it. not for those who like everything to be extremely 
 fast paced. I love it, you may hate it.
  This game deserves a 10, but unfortunately my graphics and sound rating drag it dow.
  this game 
 is a great callback to the time when the focus wasn't on graphics and huge orcestral scores, but 
 when 2 or 3 people made a game, and they spent the majority of their time tweaking the gameplay, 
 and dint have thje budget of LOTR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Inquisitor
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Dominions 2 The Ascension Wars
  
  The Great one has come.
  
  Dominions 2 is in my opinion the greatest turn based to come since the original Age of Wonders.
 
  
  Graphics: 3/10
  
  As much as I like this game the graphics are pretty bad. The over world map looks similar to Risk 
 which isnt to bad but the battle graphics are pretty terrible. Almost all units go through only 
 two animations in battle and upon death disappear in a small poof of red mist (blood) . The units 
 are each different in their look and can be zoomed in on during battle which is what gave a point 
 to graphics. Unfortunately they are still very blurred even when zoomed in on. Spell animations 
 are decent.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  I really enjoyed the music in this game with its medieval monks chanting which seems to really 
 fit the theme well. The battle sound somewhat diverse; unfortunately the sound can get very, very 
 repetitive with one particular move (mind blast) that makes a very loud horrible sound. Now if 
 you have 20 mind blasting creatures casting it repeatedly it can make you want to send your speakers 
 sailing out the window.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 
  
  By now your probably wondering why I gave this game the Zeus award when the graphics are terrible 
 and the sound is mediocre at best. Well here is where it makes up for all that. First off the depth 
 of this game is absolutely amazing. To give you an example of the depth let me give you overview 
 of the steps need to create god. Step one chose a civilization. There are 17 to chose from! And 
 they are all different in their look and strengths and weaknesses. After spending 30 minutes on 
 deciding on a team we go onto step two. You are now assigned 500 pick points, which are used throughout 
 the choices. ex: one god (Son of Niefial) costs 50 points. Step two pick a god. There are 15-20 
 god to choose from and then there are also gods unique to certain teams. And once again they are 
 all distinctive. Step 3, chose magic schools for your god. There are eight to choose from (air, 
 fire, water, earth, nature, astral, death, and blood) . You increase the levels of the school by 
 using up some of your points and on top of that you can put points into multiple schools. Step 
 4, customize dominion. You do this by tipping several scales to use or get back pick points. If 
 you choose turmoil your dominion would get frequent events (mostly bad) and you would get some 
 pick points back for choosing a negative scale pick. However if you choose order your people would 
 be more productive and get less events. However it would use up some pick points for picking this 
 positive adjustment. You can also increase dominion strength and choose your dominion type, which 
 use up points also. I wont go into detail on this, if you want more information go on a forum. 
 Step 5, finally you must choose a fortification to use (castle, fortress, hill fort) . This is your 
 defensive structure and does many things and I could probably write a whole guide on the choices 
 but once again I wont go into detail on this, if you want more information go on a forum. Now 
 those are choices that you make before even starting the game. Unfortunately if you already have 
 guessed, this game has got to have one of the steepest learning curves out of any game ever made. 
 Still once you get into the game it is very enthralling. Also at shrapnelgames. com Bruce Geryk 
 has made an excellent beginners guide. Commanding your kingdoms is simple and not generally a chore 
 and battles are done automatically though you can watch a tactical replay. You do have a say in 
 fighting but only in the form of assigning tactics.
  
  Multiplayer: 8/10 
  
  The Multiplayer is good and can be done in multiple forms. And because it is turn based, you and 
 your friends can play a game all on the same computer. Of course you can also play online but unfortunately 
 there isnt as many players online as other more popular games like Diablo 2. Still its an all 
 right multiplayer setup though.
  
  Replayability: 10/10
  
  Just look at all the choices I have talked about in this review and you will see the endless combinations. 
 I guarantee no two games will be alike.
  
  Final Score: 9/10 
  
  If you can get by the weak graphics you will realize this is truly a gem to any gamers collection. 
 I cant recommend this game enough.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaethro
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2005 5:56 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat let me say that this game is not for the faint of heart when it comes to strategy 
 games. The graphics do not detract from the game play, but on the same token they cannot easily 
 be ignored. However, if you can look past this unfortunate detail, Dominions 2 is a well-developed 
 and substantial game both in combat and, most importantly, in mythological cadence.
  
  You start out as a pretender god after the world's one god seems to have disappeared. Your task 
 is to eliminate all other gods and become the supreme ruler. You can do this one of two ways: kill 
 off all the other gods or destroy all faith that the world has in them. This may be the only mode 
 of play, but let me assure you that it is more than enough by itself.
  
  This game is very hardcore in the turn-based approach. A player on average can take up to 30 minutes 
 a turn commanding only a small dominion, let alone a global one. Do not be fooled however: it doesn't 
 get dull for a moment. The entirety of your turn will be spent whizzing around the plethora of 
 screens containing items, spells, creatures, prophets, and heroes at your disposal. Even at the 
 end of your turn, you will still cross your fingers and hope you didn't forget to do anything.
 
  
  One way to instantly get the wrong impression of this game is to play it in the hotseat version 
 unless you are planning a sleepover for the next week and a half with anyone involved. The game 
 is way too long to trade with each player over periods of hours. However, Ilwinter has a masterfully 
 executed system that causes all turns to be taken simultaneously and it is supposed to be taken 
 advantage of when playing with up to 17 different people (which the game does support) . You can 
 do this by using the e-mail system of play. It isn't very complicated, but still requires a bit 
 of prowess with the computer that some gamers might unfortunately not possess. It, nevertheless, 
 allows everyone to take their turn simultaneously, cutting down a month (the standard unit of time 
 in the game) from over 6 hours in some cases to just one or two.
  
  As mentioned before, the mythological accuracy and symbolism in this game is outstanding. Each 
 race is fabricated entirely on the basis of some set of creatures from a staggering number of religions, 
 philosophies, and countries. Ulm, for example, is the stalwart Germans of medieval times. With 
 little or no magic (no fundamentally followed religion) they rely on steel for everything and make 
 up for their lack of magic by being physically superior to any other human (which I will not make 
 comment on) .
  
  
  The spell system is well organized and causes for constant discretion of the players (a fine trait 
 indeed) . The fact that you must research in the classes of magic leaves every magic using Dominion 
 at a dilemma with their pretender god: is it better to have the god in question stay in the bases 
 and research (he/she is normally unparalleled in the practice) or send them into battle (not a 
 bad choice either most of the time) . The repertoire of spells is staggering as well and each spell 
 has a decent explanation of itself, some even having mythological references.
  
  It may just be a personal opinion, but I find the combat system to be very efficient in this game. 
 You create an army using resources and gold with a little bit of everything (though sometimes one 
 unit in bulk will do) . Then you pick a hero for the leading task. You organize the soldiers into 
 squadrons, each squad having a unique morale total. From there you click on a province and watch 
 what happens next turn. That's right, you don't control your units. They fight themselves and the 
 realism of this makes many strategies used in a normal strategy game ineffective (which they should 
 because most commonly used game strategies don't work in reality!) and causes for army organization 
 to be in top shape for a fight. You are not completely powerless however. You can tell each squadron 
 fairly explicitly what to do a period of 6 turns, which usually enough to rather efficiently saut 
 any unorganized enemy into nothingness.
  
  This game brings logistics to life in a way that even most turn-based games fail to address. Invading 
 every town in sight is not always the best option for an army because, simply put, a starving army 
 does not fight. The system of logistics, morale, supplies, and climate attribute causes the tried-and-not 
 actually true method of amassing a terrifying army and plunder all in sight to crumble most graciously. 
 
  
  Combat afflictions also play an important role in keeping heroes and grand armies from stealing 
 all the sunlight. Think your Black Lord Krelthin is powerful with his Hammer of the Mountain? What 
 if he loses an eye in combat? What if gets his arm chopped off? The uncanny realism of the permanent 
 afflictions in Dominions II is a very nice touch and adds even more to my final recap.
  
  THIS IS NOT YOUR NORMAL TURN BASED STRATEGY GAME. It is better than a normal strategy game; it's 
 realistic. In this game it is shown time and again that you're "only god-like, not omnipotent" 
 and I wish more games would be like this. If it were not for the below average graphic work, this 
 game could easily be the best, most realistic strategy game on the market right now, but if the 
 graphics don't bother you too badly give it a shot. Trust me, you'll love it.
  
  P. S. The Dominion strength and dominion types are also awesome, balanced, and well executed. Sorry, 
 I cant go into detail. This review is getting pretty long!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 4, 2004 9:05 am PT
Review:  Dominions II is a pure strategy title, but don't overlook it for lack of flashy multimedia. This 
 title features deep strategic command and a very rich fantasy environment. The variety of ways 
 in which you can design your "Pretender God" are immense and most of the nations over which you 
 can lord have different themes available that change the feel of play completely. The interface 
 in Dominions II is clunky and battle is little more than watching your 2D sprites match up against 
 the AI's 2D sprites, but the depth and variety of the game more than make up for that. Players 
 can also create their own maps for the game with relative ease. Altogether a great little fantasy 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moodgie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot completely missed the boat in its review. Dominions 2 is perhaps the finest strategy game 
 ever made. That it was made by only two people who hold other jobs aside from game making is incredible, 
 when you realise the depth of this game. You can do virtually anything relating to fantasy that 
 you desire in this game. You can be a Aztec-like society that sacrifices its own young for magic, 
 an enslaving race of mind-sucking tentacled aliens, a Transylvanian-like society dominated by mighty 
 Vampire Lords (after applying the small patch) , and of course traditional fantasy empires you might 
 find in any fantasy game. All the various races are impressive in their numbers, but much more 
 impressive is that almost every one presents new gameplaying opportunities. For instance, playing 
 Ermor, a nation of undead, you cannot even raise troops normally, instead having to rely on raising 
 the dead, which effectively changes the entire game system. In fact, most all of the 17 races have 
 distinct playing styles. Some races even have multiple types of societies, which you can change 
 at the beginning.
  
  Micromanagement in this game is not really a problem, no more than in, say, Civilization 3. If 
 you choose to play a massive map with all 17 races, then yes, I'd imagine micromanagement would 
 get very tiresome. However, most maps provided both with the game and available on the website 
 are geared towards fewer players. Micromanagement in Alpha Centauri, for instance, was noticably 
 worse than in this game, particularly when you consider how much deeper this game is than Sid Meier's 
 masterpiece. 
  
  The manual provided with the game is ample and explains things well. The interface is fairly easy 
 to learn, after you start a game. Designing your "god" is incredibly interesting, with tons of 
 different mages, monsters, dragons, monuments and other things available for you to deal with, 
 along with the domain aspect, which allows you to increase magic or income at the expense of something 
 else. The magic system is immense, as well. Item creation is literally better than any other game 
 ever, even better than Master of Magic. Discovering an invaluable item can literally change your 
 game. Race specific heroes that will come to you if you set your Luck scales high enough (yes you 
 can control luck, as well!) , range from interesting and useful for the traditionally powerful nations 
 to absolutely incredible for some of the unorthodox countries.
  
  The graphics in this game are functional. Nothing more, nothing less. You can forgive them, because 
 strategy games are not known for graphical prowess and also because despite limited resources, 
 the game features tons and tons of different monsters and a functional battle viewing system, which 
 actually can be quite fun, considering you can change tactics before battle for each of the units 
 you put together. 
  
  Overall, I can absolutely reccomend this to any strategy gamer or anyone with an affectation for 
 deep, replayable games. This game introduces so many innovations, and manages to balance things 
 so perfectly, that it will provide hundreds of hours and many sleepless nights for anyone who bothers 
 to dedicate some time to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Chaos_Avatar_
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 22, 2004 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot makes many good points in its review about Dominions II. The game is impressive in its 
 complexity- the amount of customization options available to the player is tremendous. The variety 
 of options, from 17 different races to a host of ways to design a "god", allows for a lot of replayability. 
 The computer AI can be extremely challenging, as it is able to micromanage the details of empire 
 management fairly well. The similarities to classic turn-based fantasy games like Master of Magic 
 or Warlords are welcome; the designers clearly tried to assemble some of the best ideas from those 
 well-constructed games and incorporate them into Dominions II.
  
  I also agree with Gamespot that the graphics are low end compared to today's standards. Personally, 
 when I'm playing a turn-based game, the graphical quality is not always a high factor in my enjoyment 
 of the game, but I acknowledge the points that are made here. Likewise, the seeming lack of control 
 during combat, an especially important part of this, and any, game, can be frustrating, The manual, 
 while detailed in describing the game's many aspects, does not provide a tutorial for the game, 
 nor is there an in-game demo. This is important, as the game is complex enough to make it difficult 
 to grasp just by the "jump in and start playing" strategy that many gamers (myself included) use.
 
  
  I do believe that this is an excellent game, however. For fans of Warlords, Master of Magic, and 
 Heroes of Might and Magic, there is a lot to love here. The number and variety of units and spells 
 and the customizability of one's race and god unit lead, as I mentioned, to a lot of replayability. 
 It is well-geared for multiplayer, with hotseat and TCP/IP support, and even PBEM. Setting up for 
 TCP/IP was not quite as simple as the manual implied, but it worked, and even two players working 
 together against the AI faced a tough challenge.
  
  If I could improve this game, I would focus on the combat system first. Armies are given a set 
 of general commands that they follow when they engage in a battle- Attack closest enemy, fire at 
 archers, cast spells, etc. There is a limit, however, to the set of commands that can be issued 
 to a given army, and not every battle is fought the same. I would introduce a system where, at 
 the beginning of a battle, a new set of orders could be given to units. Also, spellcasters do not 
 always know the right spell to cast- why does he cast Banish Undead ten times in a row, when only 
 one undead unit is left on screen? Get over it and hit him with the lightning bolt already!
  
  Another improvement would be the automization of province management- setting up more complex 
 queues for unit building (as per Civ III) and army vectoring (as per Warlords) . This would greatly 
 reduce the amount of micromanagement that the players face in the later stages of the game.
  
  However, despite these weaker aspects, the game is still a lot of fun, and yet another good 
 fix until someone finally gets the power to publish Master of Magic 2. It's worth looking at.
 
  
  As a side note, the game is very Ironman. Fans of the "save and reload" camp of gaming will receive 
 a rude awakening when playing- there is no such thing. The game saves, and that's it. You will 
 learn some hard lessons as you live with your mistakes. But that just adds to the challenge...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2004 4:22 pm PT
Review:  If you are a frantic maniac of WarCraft 3 and Age of Mythology, you will probably find this turn-based 
 strategy game, with dated and limited graphics, quite boring.
  
  This type of game is reserved for those who can't have enough of Master of Magic (1994) , the Heroes 
 of Might & Magic series, the Age of Wonders series, the Disciples series. On the visual side, Dominions 
 2 is much less sophisticated than Age of Wonders 2, and even, HoM&M 2 (1996) !
  
  But there's a lot of stuff in that game : it is deep and complex. It is difficult to learn too. 
 I played the demo and then ordered the game, but I could only tackle the demo with the aid of the 
 "walkthru" text & sample-game file which can be found on the developer's (Illwinter) website. I 
 highly recommend that you try out the demo with a printed copy of the walkthrough in your hand 
 : it's the best way to get a practical and methodical introduction to this smart piece of software. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
