-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dominion: Storm Over Gift 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/dominionstormovergift3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 5.5, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 45 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Ion Storm
Genre: Strategy
Date:     May 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its lack of distinguishing features renders it entirely tedious for real-time veterans, while its 
 difficulty and bland presentation make it the wrong choice for newcomers to the genre. 

 Because of Dominion's inherent similarity to its role models, it is impossible to review it strictly 
 on its own merits. Dominion, a hand-me-down passed from 7th Level to ION Storm, is yet another 
 science fiction real-time strategy game that bears any number of traits in common with recent successes 
 like Auran's Dark Reign, Cavedog's Total Annihilation, and Blizzard's Starcraft. And while Dominion 
 is a decent game in its own right, its lack of distinguishing features renders it entirely tedious 
 for real-time veterans, while its difficulty and bland presentation make it the wrong choice for 
 newcomers to the genre.  

 Dominion looks fine but is completely forgettable (at least it runs smoothly even at very high resolutions) . 
 Command &amp; Conquer's influence on its graphic design is obvious, though the perspective is nearer 
 to the ground rather than higher up, thus making structures and units look flat. The terrain looks 
 pleasant enough, but you've seen it all before: the grassy plains, the desert, the snow, and of 
 course, the volcanic wasteland. Though you can play as four different races, they are effectively 
 identical with the exception of a single unique unit per side and a few variations in strengths, 
 defense, and build time. Otherwise, each race has infantry, a single tank, artillery, a couple 
 mechs, two flying machines, and a few other units. Even those that are unique to any particular 
 race are contrived and boring - small wonder that the Scorp race's super unit is a giant, mechanical 
 scorpion. Though the units themselves animate smoothly, they tend to be pixelated around the edges 
 and look awkwardly pasted onto the backgrounds. Explosions and other special effects look similarly 
 out of place. Audio is likewise acceptable, consisting of effects and a techno soundtrack that 
 aren't shabby but aren't anything special either. Unit voices and weapon fire range from pretty 
 good to pretty bad but mostly hover right there in the middle, demanding no attention whatsoever. 
 A few well-made cutscenes and fancy mission briefings don't go far toward improving Dominion's 
 halfhearted appearance.  

 A less-than-spectacular aesthetic presentation would be negligible if Dominion played well, but 
 alas, it remains consistently mediocre even in this crucial respect. It plays like a typical real-time 
 strategy game where you collect resources, defend your base, build an army, and try to crush every 
 last enemy unit on the map. The two token resources to worry about as you build up your force are 
 men and materials. Men are generated continuously from colonies, and from one to several dozen 
 are required in order to build any unit or structure. Why 25 men are necessary to operate a tank 
 is anyone's guess. Furthermore, there's no explanation of where this limitless supply of men originates, 
 since Dominion takes place on a deserted, war-torn planet. Meanwhile, materials are extracted by 
 placing a refinery over a well, like in Starcraft or Dark Reign. Combat in Dominion is uninspired 
 and suffers from many of the problems encountered in other real-time strategy games. Buildings 
 can often be repaired faster than they can be damaged, and if not, they can be sold for resources 
 even from the brink of destruction. Dominion contains a very typical cast of units from the fast-but-weak 
 to the slow-but-strong. Throw in your long-range yet easily killed artillery unit and you can imagine 
 how any particular skirmish plays out.  

 Luckily Dominion's interface is slick. It looks different for each race and allows you to begin 
 constructing anything within two clicks of the mouse by means of categorical tabs and corresponding 
 toolbars. But while you can queue multiple units for construction, or even set up an infinite queue 
 that will keep churning out units so long as you can afford them, you can only queue units of one 
 type at a time. This leans gameplay toward mindless rush tactics since it's tempting just to set 
 an infinite queue of tanks and have at the enemy with brute force.  

 To its credit, Dominion does make a few attempts at evolving the genre. Many real-time strategy 
 games let you deploy a defenseless engineer unit that can take control of enemy buildings, and 
 sure enough, Dominion is no exception. But in this case, two engineers are required for the job; 
 the first plants a virus on the enemy structure, while the second takes command of it. Hitting 
 a structure with a virus negatively affects its performance (and prevents it from being sold) : 
 For instance, an inflicted refinery transfers half its resources to the enemy. Yet a virus may 
 be nullified with one of your own engineers, thus rendering this strategy next to useless since 
 it's much easier to counteract the problem than to cause it in the first place. The one entertaining 
 unit in the game is the mobile teleporter, a vehicle that may transform to a teleport pad at will. 
 You can quickly ferry vast quantities of troops from your base to a remote location by means of 
 this vehicle, which takes the sluggish nature of your more powerful units out of the equation. 

 Whether such features ultimately have positive or adverse effects on gameplay does not change the 
 fact that they are the most compelling elements in the game's design. Otherwise, Dominion feels 
 like a sluggish version of Command &amp; Conquer. No line of sight or high-ground advantages exist. 
 Once you pass through the fog of war, it's gone for good, which means there's no way to be stealthy 
 since the enemy will always see you coming on the minimap. Units tend to stop dead in their tracks 
 as they turn, which makes control frustrating, and poor pathing exacerbates the problem even further. 
 Dominion's AI is only average at best, and laughable in most cases; the enemy will continually 
 send units single file toward the heart of your base, ignoring any of your defenses along the way. 
 Though there are four long single-player campaigns to fight through, they're just four missed opportunities. 
 Each campaign becomes difficult to the point of frustration, and the missions are rarely intriguing. 
 Never at any point will you feel like you're involved in a four-way conflict since almost every 
 mission forces you to eliminate a single enemy presence. And since you cannot challenge CPU opponents 
 within a multiplayer game, the problematic campaign is all you're going to get.  

 There is nothing fundamentally wrong with Dominion. There is nothing noteworthy about it either. 
 At least half a dozen real-time strategy games released within the last year surpass it in every 
 respect, and many more released within that time frame bear at least one unique trait that sets 
 them apart. Therefore, unless your want for more of the same real-time formula is insatiable, you 
 mustn't commit to Dominion. Even those who are new to real-time strategy are better off with one 
 of the genre's recent successes, if not because they are easier to play, then because they are 
 superior in execution.  

 (Editor's note: When this review originally appeared, it stated that there was no way to judge the 
 remaining quantity of materials in a well. This was erroneous, and GameSpot regrets the error.) 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: shocker-x-
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  i picked it up and played it, it is quite fun if you forget the better games before it, other then 
 that there is not much substance, it is pretty hard too, it took me about an hour to get the hang 
 of it, but it is very satisfying to build a bunch of Dreadnoghts and obliterate everything, but 
 hell it could have been better, and considering this started the downfall of ion-storm, it was 
 a pretty lousy bang, ion storm made worse games like Daikatana, but this game could be considerd 
 passible, for thoes who get bored of Warcraft III and stuff, this isnt though a starter game, because 
 of its stupid hard difficulty at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Inquisitor
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 3, 2005 6:32 am PT
Review:  In recent years the RTS market has been flooded by Command & Conquor clones and Dominions Storm 
 Over Gift 3 is no exception. However it does do a couple of things to stand out. 
  
  First off the starting video is absolutely amazing! It tells the story of a sacred (and powerful 
 of course) artifact over a distant planet in the gift system. Of course rather then share the power 
 the 4 races in the galaxy: the Humans, Mercs, Darken, and Scorps break into war on the planet's 
 surface. This is accompanied by a pulse pounding techno soundtrack and a series of truly aswsome 
 combat confrontations. To this day (in 2005) i have not seen a game with a better opening cinematic 
 then this one! However after the intro finishes it is pretty my all downhill from here.
  
  The graphics look decent but are very pixelated and lack the simplistic bueaty of other rts. Units 
 and terrain look pixelated regardless of resolution. However on a side note i would like to point 
 out that the interface does and menu system both look very nice and are well detailed.
  
  The sound is decent with a nice techno soundtrack but is nothing spectacular or memorable excluding 
 the intro music that is. Likewise the unit sound effects are decent and don't grate one the ears. 
 
  
  Now as for gameplay Dominions makes a few big misteps here. For starters the units and buildings 
 are pretty run of the mill here. There are cheap and massable infantry, medium speed tanks and 
 walkers, and slow but powerful super units. And let it be noted that the races add very little 
 to gameplay experiance. They use the exact same units and buildings with just slight cosmetic and 
 statistic changes. Now games are played out with the formulaic building up of a base and then trying 
 to capture more resources then your enemy. At least Dominions trys to tread off the beaten path 
 a little bit when it comes to unit design. Two examples where already highlighted in the gamespot 
 review but several others are race specific. Now i konw what you are thinking; but Inquisitor i 
 thought you said that the races didn't change anything. Well technically they each have one unique 
 unit that is near the end of the tech tree. These units range from the Scorp Digger (yes thats 
 its name) which lets you transport units underground and popup into an enemies weak point to the 
 Merc Widowmaker which mind controls enemy units and puts them under your control. Originality issues 
 aside though Dominions makes two big mistakes. First off is that the campaigns are mind numbingly 
 difficult. And not in the good oh look the computer outwitted me way. No the single reason (well 
 two reasons actually) that the campaign is so difficult is because the computer is always one or 
 two techs ahead of you. When you have tanks he has walkers, when he has walkers he gets artillery, 
 when you get artillery he gets bombers, ect. This makes you start out every battle at a disadvantage 
 with the only way to win being to have more units then your enemy. And the fact that the computer 
 starts out with a fully developed infrastructure and army and you don't doesn't help this problem 
 at all. However one nice feature is that the computer doesn't have unlimited resources so you at 
 somepoint it will run out of resources and be unable to continue producing units. This seems to 
 be the main tactic in later levels and after about halfway through any of the campaigns these battles 
 all basically become wars of attrition.
  
  Now if you manage to slog through the long, repetitive, and frusterating campaign you can then 
 go on to multiplayer. It seems alright sporting compatibility with Mplayer a known internet server. 
 However it does suffer from a lack of skirmish which could have been a chance to fight the computer 
 on even ground.
  
  If you can find this game it should be at an insanely low bargain bin price and i recommend you 
 pick it up just to see the intro movie and maybe the cool interface. But just don't expect more 
 then a few hours of enjoyment out of this RTS. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
