-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dominions 3: The Awakening
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/dominions3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Practically unlimited variety of viable playing strategies.
 Superb multiplayer experience.
 Great 300-page, spiral-bound manual.
 No two games will play the same.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphics are decidedly unimpressive.
 Extreme depth equates to high learning curve.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.1, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 169 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Shrapnel Games
Developer: Illwinter Design
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Sep 29, 2006

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dominions 3 is a complex, deep, and incredibly rich strategy game that will reward those willing 
 to invest in it with an almost unlimited variety of play. 

  Dominions 3: The Awakening is a test of how much you are willing to invest in a strategy game. 
 If you're the type who scoffs at reading manuals, who revels in state-of-the-art graphics, and 
 who wants to be able to dive in and be successful in a game within minutes of installation, you'll 
 be sorely disappointed. But if you are willing to invest the time to dig in and read a thick manual, 
 experiment with more options and variations than you'll ever be able to completely explore in an 
 average lifetime, and patiently learn a complex but well-designed game system, Dominions 3 will 
 reward you with one of the richest strategy-gaming experiences available on the PC today.  

          It's not state-of-the-art graphics, but you can glean a lot of learning from watching 
 the battles.     

  A simple perusal of the features hints at the depth and level of options. You are the divine leader 
 of one of more than 50 nations, set in three different eras. The nations span the gamut from Norse-mythological 
 to Roman to Japanese, as well as everything in between. Your choice of nation results in very different 
 options and playing styles. Each era provides a different gaming environment: The Early Era is 
 a world emphasizing magic, the Middle Era blends magic and more conventional arms, and the Late 
 Era represents a time when the magic arts have faded and thus emphasis is on standard (as defined 
 by "standard" in a fantasy environment) military operations. Each era has a distinct feel and requires 
 development of different strategies for success. In addition, there are more than 1,500 types of 
 units, as well as 600-plus spells and 300-plus magic items, and note that these are not merely 
 hundreds of slight variations on the same spell or troop. In the role of a god (here called pretender) 
 attempting to establish yourself as the ultimate deity due to the vacuum left by the previous Big 
 Guy, you get to design just what type of divine being you want to be. The types of creatures that 
 can be used to represent you range from a wide and weird assortment of icons, such as a dragon, 
 a grey-haired wizardlike character, a fountain of blood, and many others. You then decide how to 
 distribute your magic points and your "dominion," which is essentially your divine influence (you 
 win when the entire world worships at your altar) .  

  The range of combinations that you can put together in creating your pretender produces very different 
 results during the game, and thus you can spend a lot of time just experimenting with different 
 types of pretenders. You also decide whether to start the game dormant, for a gain in points, or 
 fully awake and active. Even that relatively simple decision results in strategic debate among 
 Dominions 3 aficionados. Some will argue that not a lot happens in the first couple of dozen turns, 
 so the extra points you gain by starting dormant is the way to go. Others contend that there's 
 a lot you can do with your pretender being active from turn one. And yet others point out that 
 the best decision depends upon whether your rivals start active or dormant, which you won't know 
 when setting up the game. That's the way it is in every aspect of the game. There are an almost 
 infinite number of choices and variations that provide an extreme breadth of approaches to victory. 

  Once the game starts, your pretender and a couple of heroes are placed in a province on a nice 
 map that looks hand drawn. Dominions 3 includes a number of maps that vary in terms of terrain 
 and number of land and water provinces, and it also includes a random map generator that does a 
 very nice job of creating maps to your detailed specifications. In addition, Dominions 3's mod-friendly 
 nature allows almost any graphic map to be turned into a Dominions map. You've got a lot of options 
 right from turn one, such as deciding which specific military units and heroes to recruit, sending 
 your scout out exploring, and deciding who you want to assign to research, as well as which of 
 the seven magic schools to pursue, and more. Each of these options provides you a myriad of choices, 
 with the choices growing as the game progresses to the point that it can be overwhelming to the 
 Dominions newbie. Enter the exhaustive 300-page manual. The manual includes a tutorial that introduces 
 the basic features and gameplay concepts in a witty, conversational manner. The entire manual is 
 extremely readable, which is good since it is really required reading to be able to effectively 
 play the game. If you're the kind of gamer who does a happy dance when you see a thick, well-written 
 manual chock-full of useful information and tips, you're going to love Dominions 3. If your reaction 
 to a phone-book-sized manual is a groan, this probably isn't the game for you.  

          Would you like to be a dragon, or perhaps a pool of blood?     

  A typical turn will 
 have you scouting other provinces, recruiting heroes to lead your armies, assigning units to search 
 a province for magic sites, assigning research into various magic paths to learn selected spells, 
 recruiting military units for your heroes to lead into battle, attacking provinces, building fortresses 
 and temples, checking out mercenaries who may be available for hire, setting taxes and other variables 
 for your provinces, dealing with random events, sending an assassin on a mission, arming up a commander 
 with a variety of powerful items, and much, much more. Battles are fought by armies led by commanders, 
 and while you can set up a myriad of formations (such as putting archers behind infantry and elephants, 
 and mages and heroes even farther back) and assign every unit specific instructions (for example, 
 archers fire at opposing cavalry, infantry attack closest enemy, mage use a specific series of 
 spells, and so on) , you don't control the tactical action once the battle begins. You do have the 
 option to watch the battle after it is over, and some of the battles later in the game, which involve 
 huge mixed armies of mages, monsters, dragons, archers, and infantry, can remind you of a heroic 
  Lord of the Rings -inspired clash. The icons and graphics are very simplistic, but you can learn 
 a lot by observing what worked and what didn't during the fight.  

  Speaking of graphics, they are functional but highly simplistic. Unit icons are small and look 
 like something from a shareware game. Make that a shareware game from 1998. You'll squint trying 
 to differentiate the javelin-armed unit and the sword-armed unit. If that ruins your ability to 
 enjoy the game, Dominions 3 is probably not the game for you. For people who love deep strategy 
 enough to look past a woefully unimpressive presentation, the graphics are perfectly functional. 
 The audio takes a similarly functional approach, with some nice background tunes, but not much 
 else.  

  Another sign of the hardcore nature of Dominions 3 is the way that turns and saved games are handled. 
 Once you make all of your decisions and hit the end turn button, all other players make their decisions, 
 the turn is resolved simultaneously, and you are presented with the results. There is no going 
 back and changing anything once you hit that end turn button. If you choose to save the game, it 
 saves it at that specific point within the turn, and you can only restore to that point if you 
 have not ended the turn.  

          Scouts will give you an idea of what kind of neighbors you have.     

  The sheer breadth 
 of options and approaches, combined with decent artificial intelligence, makes Dominions 3 a great 
 single-player game. But to truly appreciate the ultimate experience, you need to play online. You'll 
 have no problem finding a multitude of online games that will welcome you, no matter what your 
 level of experience, and an online game with 20 other players, divided into opposing and shifting 
 alliances of nations, can provide an epic feel unmatched by many prettier but shallower games. 
 The wealth of options means that no single strategy or nation is a sure win (as opposed to other 
 multiplayer games, where playing as certain factions and using certain units and tactics can practically 
 guarantee victory) , and you are likely to encounter something you've never seen before every game. 

  Therein lies the beauty of Dominions 3. Whether playing single-player or multiplayer, you can experiment 
 with a practically infinite variety of tactical and strategic choices and never find a "best" one, 
 because your opponent has the same breadth of options. Dominions 3 is a world both deep and ultimately 
 mesmerizing to the strategy fanatic. If you prefer your games fast and flashy, you'll hate Dominions 
 3. But if you're the kind of strategy gamer who revels in hunkering down with a highly complex 
 and deep game with a phone-book sized manual and a steep learning curve that really makes you pause, 
 ponder, and think, this is definitely the game for you     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ravinhood1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This game by far is the best fantasy based turn based role playing strategy game I've ever played 
 in my 25+ years of computer gaming. Yes, it has an extreme learning curve, but, that's part of 
 the fun learning a new game. I don't know why anyone would want to be a master of a game the minute 
 they open the box. It's much more than 3 hours to really learn the game though. I spent 3 days 
 just playing around with the tutorial while reading the excellent spiral bound manual that has 
 so much information and things to guide you along in it. This is not a game for the rts kiddie 
 clicky crowd that is for sure.
  
  If you are a lover of indepth strategy and reasonable micromanagement per turn this is the game 
 for you. It puts all others to shame. It makes Age of Wonders and Hereos of Might and Magic look 
 like a kids game. Master of Magic is still one of my favorites, but, this one is right beside it.
 
  
  The vanilla version allows you to play with up to 21 computer ai opponents and they are good opponents 
 you won't be steamrolling them right off the bat and if you find there is a day you can there are 
 higher difficulty levels that will challenge you till your graves end. BUT, if you can and do eventually 
 defeat the higher difficulty ai there is always the human aspect of online mper play and that is 
 where the men are separated from the BOYS. lol Online multiplayer can be ruthless and just when 
 you think you have something in the bag a human player can shock you with an overland spell or 
 an army you never expected that was laying in wait in ambush for you. DOMINIONS MPer online has 
 a HUGE community of players, more than AOW that's for sure and HOMM as well combined. This is where 
 ALL (99.9%) the fantasy turn based players have moved to. No wonder you don't see many playing 
 AOW or HOMM online at Gamespy anymore. I was amazed at the community size and MPer community size 
 of this game.
  
  There is also a mod that allows you to play against over 60+ players and/or AI opponents. This 
 is a MONSTER game of HUGE proportions in gameplay and play value and longevity. This version has 
 a RANDOM MAP GENERATOR and you can create PRETENDERS (your god) to your hearts content for each 
 race. There is just no limit to what someone with a creative MIND can do in this game. In fact 
 the game rewards CREATIVY people when they build their pertender gods.
  
  I HIGHLY recommend this game and definitely say don't even go by what those player scores say. 
 Those have to be disgruntled AOW and HOMM fans who lost all their opponents to this game because 
 it is so good. LOL People do that you know, vote down a great game cause it took something away 
 from them. I see it on Gamerankings all the time as well. This is definitely one of those games 
 where the scores don't match how great of a game it really is.
  
  It will suck your life away and has that just one more turn aspect in spades. It's really hard 
 to put it down to goto sleep, the bathroom or school or even to work. ;) It's one of those games 
 like Civilization or Master Of Magic that will absorb time faster than anything you've done before. 
 Go out and buy it now I believe Amazon. com has it and if not you can always goto the main website 
 of Shrapnelgames. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caduceus06
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  As others have stated, the graphics are not the draw for the Dominions series. You will be hard-pressed, 
 however, to find a deeper strategy game. For instance, I couldn't figure out why after a few battles, 
 several of my archers were breaking rank and charging the enemy. I checked and all those that were 
 charging had lost an arm in a previous battle. They had defaulted to using their melee weapon! 
 The online community through the Shrapnel Games forum and IRC will keep you up-to-date on strategies 
 and never leave you with a shortage of players for play-by-email games or blitz games when you 
 have a few hours to kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcerok
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Dominions 3 is one of only two games that I have played this year that comes with a comprehensive 
 manual (Civ 4 being the other one, also an excellent game) . It's a good thing too because with 
 50 plus nations, almost a thousand spells, a thousand or so units, and hundreds of unique craftable 
 artifacts that you can equip on your leaders, this game is mammoth. The manual is 300 pages and 
 I have probably read it at least 5 times now just in playing about half the nations. The manual 
 comes with a circular binder which is also a nice touch because if it was bound (like the Civ4 
 manual) it would have disintegrated by now. Other than being rich in mythology and options, there 
 are a few design decisions that make this game very different than what is currently on the market. 
 First of all the game is saved every turn but the previous game's save is *unsaved* at the same 
 time. The game is essentially played in Ironman mode at all times. All player and AI moves are 
 also done simultaneously. So if you screw up or an opponent does something unexpected you have 
 to live with the results. This makes the game much more challenging of course. Also, units that 
 survive combat in one battle don't always escape unscathed. Units that see a lot of fighting not 
 only gain experience, they also have a good chance of gaining permanent injuries if they are wounded 
 in battle. Some races have ways of healing these but most do not. Since this is a major part of 
 the game many of the spells, attacks, and artifacts in the game have increased ablitities to inflict 
 permanent wounds of various sorts instead of just killing or damaging an opponent. The one definite 
 downside to the game is that while you can have 500+ units in a battle, the graphics are pretty 
 poor by today's standards. The upside to that is you can run the game on a slower computer. The 
 developer is very talented but doesn't seem to have a huge budget. Hopefully that will change for 
 Dominions 4 after the success of Dominions 3. I'll give you some examples of things you can do 
 in this game you can't do anywhere else. Want a Lovecraftian Aboleth covered in tentacles and eyeballs 
 that destroys enemies with a thought? Check. Want it to leave the water? Just forge an amulet of 
 air-breathing for it. Want your pretender god to be a gorgon wearing hydra armor, a life stealing 
 sword, an axe that cuts off everyone's legs, and has a bottle that releases a huge water elemental 
 to fight for it in every battle? Check. Did I mention that the snakes on her head get 5 poisonous 
 attacks per round and that enemies often turn to stone if they try to attack her? Pretender god 
 (that's you in the game) choices range from 5 or 6 kinds of Dragons, undead of various sorts, demons, 
 wizards, druids, forgemasters, titans, fountains, monoliths, bipedal dogs, and giant Kali-like 
 ladies with lots of arms. Easily more than 100 choices. Every new game is so customizable that 
 the replay value is unparalleled. The games sounds are very limited but the music score is quite 
 nice so I'm giving it a 5 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Dominions 3 is one of the best game purchases I have made this year. When I was introduced to Dominions 
 2 I wasn't really sure what to make the game, but after playing it for years I can firmly say now 
 that I get it. So when Dominions 3 was finally announced I had to pre-order it. Dominions 3 has 
 made significant improvements over Dominions 2. There are many more units, spells, map functions, 
 abilities, and material added to Dominions 3 that to try and list them all would take days. (Really 
 hours but what the hay.) One of the things that really annoyed me about Dominions 2 was the limited 
 map and unit functions. Thankfully the developers listened to fans and made many improvements to 
 the UI. Modding is going to be a big draw for this game. If your into modding then Dominion 3 will 
 be a must have game for you.
  
  I am sure the more I play the more I will find that I like about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboote
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  Dominions 3 is probably the most complex and rewarding fantasy wargames you will find. With that 
 in mind, let me briefly sketch some of its features (since I will not waste precious space recounting 
 what one can read elsewhere) and indicate why, despite its great scope and demanding content, it 
 may not be the best game for all strategists around. As you certainly know if you are reading this, 
 Dom3 is a strategy game with a fantasy setting. In it, the participants play a fledgling God and 
 attempt to eliminate all others. Since there is no diplomacy (other than informal handshakes 
 made between humans in multiplayer) , and since victory conditions require domination of the world 
 map (only one can survive!) , this game can rightly be classified in that sub-genre of strategy: 
 wargame. This is strengthened by the fact that while you *can* defeat your opponents by eliminating 
 their religious worshippers (their dominion) , the most common way to victory by far is by military 
 control.
  
  Dom3 is about obtaining military units and deploying them on the strategic map against your opponents 
 in turn-based sequences. Tactical battles are resolved automatically by the games modest tactical 
 AI. Units are obtained either by recruiting them  which requires the two plentiful resources gold 
 and, strangely entitled, resources, a metaphor for manpower  or by magical summoning, which 
 requires the necessary mage and one of 8 magical resources (gems or slaves) . The economy is refreshingly 
 simplified, containing these resources, but plays a decidedly secondary role in comparison to the 
 violent conflicts of war and its resolution. For those new to the world of Dominions, the third 
 incarnation of the game may well bewilder you with its huge palette of options. There are hundreds 
 of different units, spells, and items in the game  many of which, perhaps fortunately, you will, 
 due to balance issues, not really see used. But since Dom3 (unlike its predecessors) comes with 
 a decent manual and a tutorial, hard-core gamers will soon find their way around, despite the vastly 
 suboptimal GUI. This is, however, most certainly not an undertaking for the casual gamer or one 
 used to fast-paced but simple action of Warcraft. Longer games or those on larger maps will find 
 you spending hours on a single turn, searching for that one commander you know must be around somewhere, 
 tracking that one item you must have left on some scout, or determining which of those units were 
 diseased or starving or burdened with any number of hampering afflictions a unit may obtain. 
 For many, this is fun. This is certainly true for the vociferous and ruthlessly loyal fan-base 
 at the Dominions forums. It is here whence you must go when you seek advice, help, or potential 
 participants for multiplayer (MP) games. But it is not, alas, fun for everyone, and this is one 
 of the reasons why Dom3 will, much like its predecessors, remain a niche game. The other reasons 
 include one of the hallmarks of Dom3 itself, its complexity. Not everybody wants what appears to 
 be nearly limitless amounts of options and the decisions with which this comes. This game is for 
 those with time, lots of it, and love of detail. Another reason includes its dated graphics: quaint 
 but spotty sprites make up the units of Dom3, each with an animation which is limited to a choice 
 of two static images. For the fans of Dom3, this is just fine, and it makes sense: the developers 
 have (wisely!) chosen to spend their resources elsewhere, namely in the creation of the depth and 
 complexity this game offers. A third reason is the (alas: painfully) dated sound. While the fan-base 
 raves about the wonderfully eerie folk-music of this game  and it *is* a nice tune , I find it 
 hard to comprehend how anyone can listen to one song (no matter how wonderful) for more than one 
 hour. It is the battle sounds, however, that are truly nerve-rattling: squeaks and pips from the 
 Commodore 64 era assault ones ears when viewing a tactical battle replay. This, however, is fortunately 
 secondary, since (like most games of this type) there are no important auditory cues a player needs 
 hear to gain functionally relevant game information; visual cues are all she needs to play the 
 game well. Hence, there is no reason for turning the sound completely off and listening to ones 
 own music. This is what I do, and I am much happier for it. In fact, if you are looking for a multiplayer 
 fantasy wargame that offers thousands of options and what seems like a limitless scope of varying 
 ways of combating your enemies, and if you do not mind ancient graphics or sound, you will probably 
 not be able to be happier than with Dom3. In terms of thought required, this game easily beats 
 its nearest genre competitors. If you have patience and time, this is the game for you.
  
  While the game does have a few bugs (but nothing, it seems, that cannot be ironed out in future 
 patches) and an ancient appearance, its true faults, however, manifest itself in a poor GUI and 
 even worse AI. The latter includes enemies who follow no true plan, preferring to recruit seemingly 
 random teams of unsynergetic chaff and throw them at you without regard for consequences, leaving 
 key commanders or provinces unguarded, or paying no heed to the (fortunately: oversimplified) resource 
 system, so that (even if they should happen to find those magical gems) they put them to no good 
 use. The sad AI will, however, not bother a dedicated MP fan, but remains a blemish to those SP 
 players who will be forced to stick with games with a functioning artificial opponent (like Civ 
 or GalCiv) . The makers of Dom3 can hardly be blamed, however, since constructing a decent AI which 
 can handle Dom3s depth would require a true team of dedicated programmers. This, alas, they do 
 not have. They can be blamed, however, for the suboptimal GUI. With only a minimal amount of additional 
 effort, so many of Dom3s shortcomings could have been optimized, especially since these belonged 
 to the largest gripes on the older Dom2 forums. In many posts, however, the publishers of Dom3 
 (Shrapnel Games) have indicated that they are happy the developers (Illwinter) made their game, 
 and not another, and hence there is no point in talking about contingent alternative worlds. That 
 is too bad, since it is the alternative that potential gamers will have in mind when struggling 
 through Dom3s (sadly unsatisfying) demo. It is nearly a miracle that Dom3 turned out to be what 
 it is, considering their above-mentioned lack of resources. In fact, their lack also partly explains 
 the loyalty of the fan-base. Astounding but true: The tiny team which is Illwinter comprises a 
 pair of full-time schoolteachers. Yes, that means that Dominions3 was produced as a hobby in their 
 spare time. This is to be applauded. It also means, unfortunately, that criticism or consumer-oriented 
 support wishes are often met with inconsistently voiced claims that Illwinter is not a commercial 
 company. The game still does, however, come with a $55 price tag, so there is an obvious gap in 
 perceptions of commerciality. Since SP is greatly hampered by the poor AI, you will want to play 
 MP if playing Dominions at all. For those who liked Dom2, this is good news and bad: Bad, because 
 most of those playing Dom2 will switch to Dom3, since the hard-core fans already have, and you 
 will need Dom3 to find a game partner. Bad also, because the changes from Dom2 to Dom3 are not 
 huge. There is more of the same (more spells, more units, more nations) , the GUI is browner, 
 and there is a new option in pretender design for sleeping or imprisoned pretenders (your God comes 
 into play later for more design points) , and measures were taken to encourage the use of national 
 troops  but some of these changes come with drawbacks: Since no-one used more than half of the 
 old spells anyway, the new ones just seem superfluous, while the new nations are now divided into 
 ages, so that there are actually less combinations possible per game; while Pretenders can now 
 have the option to slumber, you can no longer spend design points on a fort or on special dominion 
 options (such as restless worshippers or ceremonial faith) ; instead of having options to customize 
 how expensive summons are, Dom3s incentive to buy national troops is simply a huge increase in 
 gold available in the world  but with this gold, you may also buy independent troops and buildings, 
 so the incentive is spread out. While in Dom3, taxing micromanagement is easier with the handy 
 new autotax feature, you will still be spending much time transferring items from individual 
 commanders, searching for preachers who no longer can preach in the province they occupy, or figuring 
 out just which of your commanders in a province commands just which troops  all of which could 
 have been addressed without much ado.
  
  All in all, Dominions3 is a very worthy game. If you are unfamiliar with the Dominions world, then 
 Dom3 will be sure to offer months of MP fun in a fantasy wargame setting  provided you feel at 
 home in the niche provided by the graphics, sound, GUI, AI, and complex micromanagement needs. 
 Hence, I must give Dom3 an 8 only as my tilt, since, with just a little more effort put into things 
 which could have been easily coded, this game could have been so vastly, vastly optimized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joramHH
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  The good: Tons of variety, excellent music, a kingdom for every playstyle. Lots of magic
  The bad: Expensive, endgame is tedious, UI isn't management friendly
  The ugly: The graphics
 
  
  The object of Dominions 3 is to promote your Pretender God to the one true god by spreading your 
 god's dominion and eliminating all rivals.
  
  You start Dominions 3 by choosing an age and a nation to play in that age. There are over 2 dozen 
 nations each with it's own theme from jungle apes to ethereal mist beings to powerful blood worshippers 
 which gives a person a lot of choice to suit his fancy. In addition to the nation, you also create 
 a Pretender God which has his own form and magic which by itself presents a challenging array of 
 options and changes or reinforces the theme of the nation you chose. With your god you also choose 
 the characteristics of your dominion such as productive or lazy, lucky or unlucky, magical or magic 
 draining and so on. You may want to choose negative attributes so you get extra points to spend 
 on other positive dominion factors or increase the magic strength of your pretender god. Suffice 
 it to say this is a statisticians dream as there are lots and lots of possibilities and interactions. 
 So much so that you will either spend all your waking hours getting the best ones if you care about 
 that sort of thing or you will be perusing the messageboards looking for builds other people say 
 that work. While in single player this is just fun, in multi-player I'm told it's critical (I haven't 
 done multiplayer yet myself though) .
  
  There are preset maps and there is also a random map generator though oddly it takes awhile to 
 generate maps on my computer. No doubt because of the database it is assembling creating each province 
 but just be prepared to wait a few minutes, especially on the larger map generations. There are 
 a variety of options to choose from even when generating the map such as size, magic frequency, 
 province strength (for those you don't start with) and number of starting provinces for your empire. 
 Let me pause here to mention that the music throughout the game is very good with varying tempo 
 and themes so it almost never feels old even if you've heard the same piece over and over again. 
 I definitely give the music a high rating though other sound affects are simply adequate.
  
  Once in game while you essentially just expand through conquest, there are a number of things 
 you are doing at the same time to be sure that when you bump into a real enemy, that they won't 
 roll over you. You build priests to increase dominion in your land, you build mages to research 
 magic and forge magical items and build up your army in your lands so you can use them to expand. 
 While priests and mages serve the purpose I just listed, they are also important for combat itself 
 where they can (in the case of priests) bless holy troops, improve morale and banish undead or 
 for mages, they have a ton of variety depending on the mages magic skill in certain areas.
  
  Speaking of the magic, there are 7 types of magic and also 6-7 schools of magic. For instance, 
 you may have a powerful earth mage but if you haven't researched anything in the school of construction, 
 you won't be able to summon many of the earth mages magical beings. Construction is also useful 
 in forging ever stronger magical items you give to your heroes. I won't go into it more here because 
 half the fun is discovering what works for yourself.
  
  I've covered the highlights of the game and many of the strengths of Dominions so let me briefly 
 go over some of the weaknesses. Dominions has never been a graphical game but I for one am tolerant 
 of that as long as there is good gameplay. Don't expect any of the graphics to blow you away, they 
 are adequate and functional for what you need to do. I don't particularly care for the battles. 
 You set your troops up into 5 squads per hero (you are only limited in troops by how many your 
 heros can command) . You give a basic order and position, such as settting cavalry on the wing and 
 telling them to attack the rearmost troops, and then basically the AI goes from there. So it's 
 more about akin to a sophisticated chess match where you try to match the strength and weaknesses 
 of yor army against your opponents. You have a little more control over your heroes where you can 
 list the first 5 commands but to be honest, it is a little frustrating when you've set that up 
 and then your army has won or lost by the time your hero has done his script. Of course you can 
 tweak it to be more efficient but it's a lot of work once you get more than a few dozen heroes.
 
  
  That brings me to the endgame critique in which, even on smaller maps, you will have a ton of troops 
 and heroes to command and you really need to pay attention to detail to get the most out of your 
 army. And if I haven't honed the point in enough, there can be tons and tons of provinces and heroes 
 you have to manage and the UI isn't especially friendly for that purpose. I find it very tedious, 
 especially after I've pretty much known the result of the game but I mistakenly think there is 
 some kind of satisfaction in playing it out. Ironically, there is no reward whatsoever in finishing 
 the game except for personal satisfaction and a very small popup that says your god has vanquished 
 all the others. Whoop-de-do! Maybe there's a better sense for multiplayer but I don't have time 
 for that very often so I was hoping single player would be more worthwhile. Now when I know where 
 a game is heading, I just stop and reload but I can't help but lose satisfaction in that.
  
  And that brings me back to my final complaint which is the price. This game at $55 is way overpriced. 
 I obviously bought it with high hopes for the game but frankly, unless you are already a huge fan 
 of the series and just have to have it, it's just not worth the price. It's like there pricing 
 scheme was more about how many options you have versus the amount of real substance in the game. 
 You do get a very nice 300+ page manual though 2/3rds of that simply are explanations of the nations 
 and huge amount of magic spells. I think all they are doing is gouging the existing fanbase because 
 you won't get many new fans with a price like that.
  
  I keep getting drawn back to the game always wanting to try something new so there is no doubt 
 about replayability, but I rarely finish a game anymore because of the endgame tedium (not to mention 
 very lame ending popup) . I would recommend this at maybe $30-35 but at $55 I would certainly not. 
 If you have bought it, i do hope you enjoy and if you haven't, then hopefully this review will 
 help you make up your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexander_brady
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 15, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  -Deep, addictive strategy
  -More content than the developers (2 people!) even remember
  -Large, strong community
  
  
 THE BAD:
  -Non-scalar, 2d graphics
  -Small musical score
  
  I first ran across the Dominions series when I saw the Dominions II demo. I liked the demo a lot, 
 more than most any other demo. I downloaded the Dominions 1 demo, and when Dominions 3 was announced, 
 I rushed to get it. Now I have it, and I will review it for others.
  
  In Dominions 3 you play a (pretender) god. The last true god (called the Pantokrater) disappeared 
 for some reason, and now you and your opponents are struggling to become the next god. There are 
 two methods: You can persuade everyone to worship you (very hard and rather boring) , or you can 
 kill everyone who doesnt (the main focus of the game) .
  
  You begin by designing your pretender god. You choose what scales you want your followers to 
 adopt (these include things like cold temperatures, chaos, or death) . You also choose what you 
 want your god to be (these range from fountains of blood to powerful storm gods, to powerful angels) 
 and what kind of magic they get. This also effects what bonuses sacred troops get when a priest 
 blesses them. Finally, you can choose your gods dominion power and imprison them for a couple 
 turns, in exchange for a more powerful god.
  
  Dominions 3s gameplay is different from any other game I have seen. It has a hands-off battle 
 system. This means that you give orders to your units before the battle, and then watch it later 
 (you cant issue orders during a battle) . This means that while your units will often do stupid 
 things (like shooting your own soldiers, or charging to their death) , you can also play the game 
 by email (no connection required) , and it gives the turns a more epic feeling.
  
  Besides battles, you may also build fortresses (to recruit units and fortify territories) , temples 
 (that spread dominion) , labs (allowing research, and gem and magical item storage) , and train Province 
 Defense (free soldiers that join defensive battles for that province) .
  
  A good deal of the games strategy is researching powerful spells and collecting the magical gems 
 to use them (for example, Fires From Afar shoots fireballs at an enemy province) . Alternatively, 
 construct great magical items and send powerful commanders off to use them (for example, the Bane 
 Venom Charm, which diseases its bearer, but poisons enemies) .
  
  One the other hand, you wont be able to do much very quickly, and it takes a long time to master. 
 Even at the top level of multiplayer new strategies are always being discovered, and optimization 
 is always a losing battle. Add to that the fact that there are 50+ nations, 1500+ units, 600+ spells, 
 and 200+ items and you wont get bored for a long time.
  
  If you dont believe what I said, or arent sure if this is the right game for you, download the 
 demo (at http://shrapnelgames. com/Illwinter/Dom3/6. htm) , or visit the forums (at http://www. shrapnelcommunity. com/threads/postlist. php? Cat=&amp; Board=dom3) ! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
