-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Domination
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/domination/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Smart, engaging blend of tactics and strategy.
 Lots of replay value on- and offline.
 Pretty, if generic, visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Unbelievably bad writing and voice-overs.
 Pay to play after four months.
 Generic settings, units, sound effects, and music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 11, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.9, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 195 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Wargaming. net
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Mar 3, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Glaring flaws and a lack of real innovation aside, Domination still offers an engaging mix of turn-based 
 tactics and strategy that's easy to learn and hard to master. 

  They say the third time's the charm. Not with the third Massive Assault game, Domination. For one 
 thing, Domination is in many ways the same game as its two predecessors; it feels like developer 
 Wargaming. net keeps repackaging the same material in slightly different guises. On top of that, 
 Domination also suffers from unpleasant flaws, including ones that have hurt the series since day 
 one. In fact, some of those old flaws have not merely returned, but have been magnified to the 
 point of absurdity. But despite all that, Domination still offers an engaging mix of turn-based 
 tactics and strategy that's easy to learn and hard to master. It also offers some new units and, 
 finally, a really good single-player experience.  

          Choose your strengths in the new solo career mode.     

  Massive Assault players will 
 get a sense of dj vu when they first boot up Domination. It looks extremely similar to its predecessors. 
 You'll see some new details and slicker animations, but the basic look is the same as ever, and 
 once again, it's both pretty and pretty generic.  

  More importantly, the core gameplay is also the same as ever: elegant and challenging. You'll once 
 again lead land, sea, air, and amphibious forces into battle in a sci-fi setting, struggling for 
 control of territories and the wealth they grant. As in a hex-based wargame, each unit can move 
 a set distance each turn, and only into discrete, fixed cells. The game takes on a chesslike feel 
 since land units can't pass through occupied cells; you'll need to carefully orchestrate massed 
 unit movements to get all your forces into optimum firing positions. Since each unit dishes out 
 a fixed amount of damage with each attack, there's never any guesswork about how to blast an enemy 
 to bits. As with movement, the fighting is all about careful planning.  

  To help you with that, a user-friendly interface makes it easy to see where your units can move 
 and how far they can shoot. If you forget to employ a unit, the game will offer a friendly reminder. 
 You can even undo moves, bringing destroyed units back to life to try a different tactic. Considering 
 all that user-friendliness, it's ironic the game doesn't offer stronger training missions; the 
 included ones feel perfunctory -- an ongoing Massive Assault problem.  

  In Domination, you'll have to consider more than just the nitty-gritty of movement and combat. 
 Each map features territories that belong to each side, but the landscape is also dotted with neutral 
 territories and secret allies. Secret allies are territories that you can potentially reveal as 
 friends at the time of your choosing, letting you spring major surprises and dramatically altering 
 how battles play out on each map. Couple those considerations with guerrilla forces that can suddenly 
 surround invading units, and territorial revenue streams that can run dry at inopportune times, 
 and you get a smart strategic layer on top of a challenging bed of tactics.  

  Not only do the basic gameplay dynamics of Domination follow a familiar path, but you'll also find 
 many returning units. Once again these core units are functionally the same for each of the game's 
 two sides, differing only cosmetically. But you do get some new vehicles, like mobile shield generators 
 that defend neighboring units from air attack.  

  Each side now gets a few unique units, too, offering new ways to pummel adversaries into submission. 
 Take the new Bullfrog. It's a ponderous machine that can move a mere two cells per turn. What it 
 lacks in mobility it makes up for in heavy hit points and unique firepower: It has two weapons 
 that can target different enemies in the same turn or target the same enemy for a devastating, 
 all-out blow. Thanks to these new side-specific units, there's finally a reason to choose one force 
 over another.  

  You'll get tons of chances to try out the units. The second Massive Assault game, Massive Assault 
 Network, added some new online multiplayer features but jettisoned most of the troubled single-player 
 game of the first Massive Assault. Domination makes up for that by giving you a plethora of single-player 
 options. You get a bunch of smart scenarios, full campaigns for each of the game's forces, a career 
 mode where you buy access to units and upgrades as you progress, an assault mode where you try 
 to conquer heavily defended bases in a set number of turns, and more. It's true that the basic 
 gameplay is the same across all these modes, but all the same, you end up with a ton of scripted 
 and random battles on varied maps. You can now really adjust the AI, too, so new players no longer 
 have to submit to humiliation at the hands of a viciously efficient foe.  

  As welcome as the single-player offerings are, they also highlight some of Domination's big failings. 
 Actually, they're not just big; they're staggering. The earlier Massive Assault games were content 
 to toss out a generic bit of backstory with a smattering of clunky dialogue and leave it at that. 
 Domination tries to rectify those flaws, but after playing for a while, you'll long for the old 
 Massive Assault. In many of the solo modes, you'll be subjected to unimaginative and boring in-engine 
 cutscenes of little units scampering about, as well as outlandishly amateurish interludes featuring 
 forgettable characters, numbingly bad dialogue, and silly place names like Sushiland. Top that 
 off with some of the most bored, halting, mispronunciation-laden voice-overs you'll ever hear, 
 and you have a recipe for disaster. Thank goodness you can skip a lot of that junk and get right 
 down to the gameplay.  

          Some new units spice up the familiar gameplay.     

  You can also avoid the pathetic writing and voice-overs by playing against human opponents. You 
 get a hot-seat mode, real-time LAN play, and the equivalent of play-by-email Internet play, where 
 turns are sent to and stored on a central server from within the game. Finding opponents and sending 
 and receiving turns is as quick and easy as ever. It would have been nice to get some team and 
 co-op modes, though. There's a huge, nasty catch, too: You get only four months of free Internet 
 play, and after that you'll have to start paying subscription fees.  

  Domination doesn't break much new ground (though its new features are certainly welcome) , and it 
 suffers from outrageously bad writing and voice-overs. Some annoying bugs and crashes further dampen 
 the fun. While Domination isn't all it could have been, it still fills an important niche, and 
 it still offers smart, addictive gameplay. Just be sure to skip the ridiculous dialogue and cutscenes 
 to get right to the good stuff.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  I am not going to talk about the multiplayers components, I play solo, at home. The pay-to-play 
 apply only to the multi-player components.
  
  Strong points:
  
  - Difficulty level; this game challenge me, very few can. (you don't need to play at the highest 
 difficulty setting) . I just recently complete the last map. Some maps are easy, but some are devious 
 and will take every thing you have.
  
  - No random, so the focus is on strategy/tactics, if you fail/succeed, you only got yourself to 
 blame/credit for it, no hiding behind I was lucky/unlucky.
  
  - Units models are neats.
  
  - Disclosure is an interesting system, you can often get the better of the computer on this 
 level.
  
  - AI always maximise the current turn, so the computer will do maximum damage/destruction of units 
 for this current turn... don't even try to compete with him on the level, think many turns ahead. 
 The computer has more ressources and more units as well... so you have to think carefully and to 
 understand his moves in order to build a successfull strategy/tactics.
  
  - AI is predictable. Maybe to some peoples it is bad. But to someone who is focused on the achievements 
 and progression, this is good. You learn you enemy, you outplay him, you progress. IMO this is 
 sweat.
  
  - Campaigns, Careers and scenarios are outstanding. You have quite a LOT of content to much in 
 before your done with this game.
  
  Weakpoints:
  
  - AI, despite it maximise effects, is predictable, and to some peoples, it will be a downside. 
 Me I like it that way, but some may prefer more challenge and less of what I would call, evolution.
 
  
  - Poor replayability. Once you complete a map or something, you can try to do better a few times, 
 but overall, you will most likely be done with it and never come back.
  
  
  
  
  This is the BEST game these devs 
 ever did. Hopefully the future will be bright with other great titles such as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xover666
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jun 5, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game sucks, plain and simple. There is absolutely no substance to this game at all and it's 
 just a waste of money. If you want to play a TBS, stick to heroes or try Shattered Union. I haven't 
 even played Shattered Union and I can tell it's a better game already just based on the reviews. 
 That my friends is how bad Domination is. No buildings to strategize, no resources to gather, very 
 limited units to build, and only 2 factions!!! If you are going to make a wargame, then please 
 for the love of good gaming, give us more factions!!!!! Variety is the spice of life, and this 
 game has no variety whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdolhon
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 31, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this in the store, I was all pumped up and excited to play it from the looking at the 
 graphics on the box and reading what the game was about. But I was greatly disappointed when I 
 started playing it and learned it was a turned based game. I tried to play it, but it wore thin 
 really quick and end up closing the game after about 10 minutes and have not played it since. Really 
 poor game play in my opinion. Also, the way the box is worded makes you think the game will play 
 one way, but it is actually quite different. Don't waste your money on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 29, 2005 8:05 pm PT
Review:  The demo crashed so badly it conjured up a rare Windows XP blue-screen-of-death. And after a reboot, 
 a Windows message informed me that my OS had just recuperated from a serious problem. Swell.
  
  My system is maintained in an ultra-clean state : such dramatic crashes never occur. I cannot 
 accept that a demo crashes & trashes my stable OS in such a gruesome manner. I uninstalled it immediately 
 after the reboot.
  
  The GameSpot & GameSpy reviewers have mentioned that the game was full of bugs and had the tendency 
 to crash. 
  
  I might purchase it one day, but only after the release of at least one patch and after having 
 read the commentaries of other players. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
