-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Doom II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/doom2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 9.5, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 3,160 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: id Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Sep 30, 1994 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bigger, badder, and bloodier than the original, this sequel extends the carnage started in Doom. 
 

 Bigger, badder, and bloodier than the original, this sequel extends the carnage started in Doom. 
 If you like viciously violent, anti-story entertainment (Seagal, anyone?) you'll slaver at the 
 chance to slay new monsters with perfectly robust hardware. Those seeking the ultimate in home 
 demon protection can now protect their plane of existence with a double-barreled, pump-action, 
 combat shotgun that blasts more holes than Mobil Oil.  

 Among the new monsters included, Mancubus and Arch-Vile rank at the top of the hope there's 
 nothing behind this door list. Mancubus is a big droning brute of a cement mixer who hurls 
 balls of fire. Arch-Vile, the ragged edge of a dead man's nightmare, conjures up an evil flame 
 of death and revives dead enemies.  

 Even with its darkly entertaining firepower and pleasingly grotesque menagerie, the game has its 
 flaws, like an unrelenting and simplistic soundtrack that gets pretty annoying over time. (Don't 
 worry, though, the game's sound effects are as brilliant as they were in the original, and remain 
 one of its best features.) More bothersome, especially for fans of the first game, is that the 
 repetitious action in this nasty and brutish sequel just isn't as addictive as it was in the original 
 hit. Doom II doesn't build the same visceral or emotional connection because it doesn't enhance 
 the original experience in any original way. Compared to Hexen, for example, which broadens the 
 Heretic legend, Doom II adds little substance and no plot to its predecessor (space marine saves 
 earth by killing monsters isn't a plot) .  

 Doom II is a dark, disturbing game. And while it may not bring anything new to the genre, it can 
 create obsession-level loyalty if you tend not to look beyond the barrel of a gun.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (77 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Soul_Bleed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 2:31 am PT
Review:  Question: How do improve upon a ground breaking classic like Doom? Well, you keep the same formula, 
 up the difficulty, add in some challenging new enemies, and give the player a little bit more firepower 
 to spill their guts with and you have a recipe for what is arguably the best action game ever. 
 Even today Doom 2 still stands out as a classic that is just lots of fun to play.
  
  We've all heard the saying, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it." This is definitely the truth with 
 Doom 2. ID has made virtually no changes to the core gameplay which is a great thing. You still 
 play as lone space marine armed with enough firepower to level an entire city. Your only goal in 
 each level remains to find the exit to the next level and kill any demons you encounter. No there's 
 still pretty much no story but really, does Doom need a story? I sure don't think so. All you need 
 to know is that there's a bunch of demons running loose and it's your job to annihilate them all.
 
  
  Probably the biggest difference in Doom 2 is the difficulty. It's much harder than the original 
 Doom. I guess ID figures you've probably already finished Doom a few times over so this time, they're 
 not holding back. The levels are much bigger and more challenging and they're stuffed full of huge 
 numbers of demons. You'll be encountering large groups of monsters around pretty much every corner 
 and the new enemies, which I'll be covering next, just make it all the more difficult and at times, 
 frustrating. But hey, no one ever said saving the world from endless hordes of monsters would be 
 easy.
  
  As I mentioned before, Doom 2 features several new enemies:
  
  Chaingunner: You thought Shotgun Sergeants were bad, wait till you get a load of this guy. He's 
 much tougher and carries a chaingun that he fires relentlessly until either you or him are dead.
 
  
  Hellknight: Basically a scaled down version of the Baron Of Hell. He has only half as much health 
 but his attacks are just as strong as the Barons.
  
  Revenant: A walking skeleton in a suit of armor who moves quick and fires homing rockets.
  
 
  Mancubus: A huge behemoth who packs a pair of flame launchers that cause some serious damage.
 
  
  Arachnotron: A miniature version of the Spiderdemon who has a plasma rifle instead of a super chaingun.
 
  
  Pain Elemental: The most annoying enemy in history. He spews out an endless number of lost souls 
 at you and even splits into a pair of them when he dies. 
  
  Arch-Vile: Without a doubt the most diabolical creature ever conceived. Not only does he cast a 
 extremely damaging fire spell against you, but he can also revive nearly any demon you kill! Believe 
 me you're gonna learn to hate this guy real fast.
  
  Sound effects haven't changed at all from the original Doom. You still hear the sounds of the Demons 
 moaning and growling all around you. Your weapons have all the sounds we've come to know and love. 
 The only difference is the music. As the GS review pointed out, it's definitely inferior to Doom's 
 soundtrack but it's does the job well enough. In any case you don't really play Doom to listen 
 to the music anyway.
  
  Doom 2 is doesn't stray too far from Doom's footsteps, but it definitely improves upon nearly everything 
 that made Doom great and thanks to it's huge fanbase who are constantly pumping out new maps and 
 mods for the game, it doesn't look like Doom or Doom 2 will be dying out any time soon. Doom 2 
 receives my highest recommendation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfpred2007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I played Doom II the same day as I played the original. Doom II is a great game.
  
  Doom II is very similar to Doom, and it does have little new weapons and enemies, it still a worthy 
 purchase.
  
  Most of my feelings are the same as for Doom, so I will just cover the new elements in Doom II.
 
  
  
  One great thing is the new weapon, the super shotgun. It has a slower reload time than the normal 
 shotgun, and takes up two shells in one shot, but it is considerably more powerful, and has more 
 spray per shell used than the normal shotgun.
  
  Many new enemies were introduced in Doom II, such as the Hell Knight (a Baron with less health) , 
 the Pain Elemental (a lost soul spewing Cacodemon) , and the Arch-Vile, who's flame attack can launch 
 you in the air and has the ability to resurrect most zombies and demons, except for Pain Elementals 
 and Lost Souls.
  
  The new levels in Doom II are just as good as Doom's levels, except there are no episodes, so you 
 can't just skip around the game like in Doom. 
  
  The most interesting this is the main boss. It is a giant, demon-spewing demon. It never moves, 
 but the demons and damaging floors with kill you fast.
  
  Doom II may not have too many new elements, but it is just as good as the first game.
  
  I 
 give Doom II:
  97%
  A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 8:15 am PT
Review:  The second 'shoot-up-the-demons' generation of Doom has reached the world, but I must state that 
 it is slightly overrated. Doom 2 isn't a bad game; its actually quite fun for a few minutes. Its 
 just the fact that I. D. software has practically gone "Hey, do you like to repeativly shoot 2D 
 animated demons for hours? I do! Lets make a game and a sequal!".
  
  
  Doom 2 offers new weapons, new levels, and a few new monsters, but not much else has changed. You 
 are still the nameless space marine, who can supernaturally sprint through level through level, 
 shooting demons spawned from hell in the process, varying from zombies, to giant minotours, to 
 cyber spiders, to... at the very end, an ironic boss, which I will not spoil. Guns varying from 
 chainsaws, rockets, plasma cannons, and shotguns are at your disposal, and goofy levels, like mars 
 spacestations with unrealistally large canals and hallways are what yout must race through to close 
 the portals spawning hell's demons.
  
  
  
  Doom 2 is ment as an arcade showoff shooter. The gameplay consists of running crazily 50mph through 
 levels, shooting as many demons as you can, and eventually flipping a certain switch to rack up 
 your score. Even traps like lava or toxic water doesn't even hurt you; that's how fast this guy 
 can run. Unforutunetly, the score-based gameplay of Doom 2 doesn't grab the full potential of what 
 the REAL shooter aspect should be. While Doom 2 can be a real timewaster with the editor, or a 
 superb way to showoff with your points and all, shooters should be full of action grunts, explosions, 
 blasts, convincing action feels; not sprinting crazily through levles, shooting a few holes in 
 demons, ultimatly to get the score first, and get action later.
  
  
  
  The control in Doom 2 is jerky as well. The mouse works TERRIBLY; you can only look side to side, 
 and when you look up, the camera tilts at an angle as you get a good chunk of the chunky ceiling 
 graphics. You can blame the fact that its an old game for that one, but it still feels akward. 
 So basically shooting a powerful shotgun, yet having the camera so stiff as to only move sideways 
 is a disapointing aspect of shooter combat.
  
  
  The sound of the demons are littlerly lions and giaffes mouning and roaring (But of course, I never 
 went to hell, so I wouldn't know what demons sound like) . They do these moaning sounds every time 
 to where when you butcher a group of zombies, they sound like a crowd booing at you. When you get 
 shot, your guy just makes a small sigh, til then when he dies, he screams loudly in a high, horror-film 
 pitch. The weapons sound just like they would in real life, but, like stated above with the camera, 
 the shotgun blast sounds, but just doesn't feel all that powerful.
  
  
  
  Doom 2 is a good game, but it certainly doesn't have what it takes to be one of the best shooters 
 of all time. If you wish to be spoiled, the actual boss of the end of the game is Geoge Romero, 
 which is ironically slightly funny, and may prove racisim to some, coming from a game that wants 
 you to destory the person who is trying to destory the world using hellpower. With that, if you 
 have skipped to the bottom of this review for no reason without reading this review, I'll have 
 to say that Doom 2 is a good game, but not good enough to make it past the 7.5 mark. The editor 
 is probably the only replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  When the FPS game Doom was released, it satisfied many players, thanks to its unique atmosphere. 
 After just one year, Doom II is an amazing game wich still knows how to satisfy. Keeping its original 
 gameplay and some characteristic evil creatures, Doom II is not losing nowhere to its predecessor. 
 Of course there are new, mighty monsters standing behind every door and roaming the dark areas 
 of the game. This time Doom turns out to be more bloodthirsty than before. New weapons and new 
 monsters make you a professional assassin. What the game lacks is a true story, as saving earth 
 from monsters is what the game only provides. There are though, many improvements in the sound 
 and in the graphics compared to the first Doom. What you got from Doom is what you will respectively 
 get from its sequel. The same atmosphere, the same design and the same amazement exist in Doom 
 II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  How do you follow up on one of the most groundbreaking games of all time? In 1994 id answered that 
 by taking what worked before and slapping in a double-barreled shotgun, a horde of new monsters, 
 and 32 new maps. That's DOOM II in a nutshell, and some people were disappointed that it didn't 
 take things further. I wasn't one of them, because while DOOM II might have felt a bit conservative, 
 it accomplished something very difficult. It zeroed in on exactly what was lacking in the first 
 game, which wasn't much, and improved on it. The result was about as close to perfect as an action 
 game could get, and a game that surpassed its prequel in most quantifiable ways.
  
  DOOM II trades in the lunar labs of the early DOOM episodes for a more familiar locale: Planet 
 Earth. True to its subtitle, Hell's minions have figured out how to invade Earth, slaughtering 
 untold billions and perverting the places they roam into warped versions of their former selves. 
 Humanity's remnants plan to escape the ruined world in a massive spaceship, but the spaceport is 
 currently occupied by hellspawn. As the sole survivor of the original demon war, it's left to you 
 assault the occupied spaceport and secure humanity's future.
  So basically you shoot stuff and try not to die. It's DOOM, ya knucklehead.
  
  Harder, Faster, 
 Better, Stronger
  
  The most important addition to the game is the double-barreled shotgun, which is simply one of 
 the best weapons ever concocted for a video game. It's over twice as powerful as the original shotgun 
 but has a much less focused spread, ensuring the regular shotty isn't obsolete. It's powerful enough 
 to take down even medium-strong enemies with only a few well-aimed shots, which gives a nice boost 
 to the pace of the gameplay and encourages more close-range combat. It fires with a deep, bass-heavy 
 "CLICK-CLACK-BOOM!" that never fails to be satisfying. Best of all, it can take down other players 
 with a single well-placed blast, forever altering the dynamics of DOOM deathmatch -- it's now even 
 faster.
  
  You'll need this extra advantage against the new monsters, too. Each one is a perfect addition, 
 and I always miss them when I go back to the original DOOM. In DOOM II, id fleshed out the ranks 
 of medium and upper-tier enemies. The walking skeletons called Revenants have strong offense but 
 weak defense, making them fun but scary cannon fodder. The disgusting rolls of fat called Mancubis 
 (Mancubi?) fill the battlefield with chaotic salvos of three-way fireballs. Pain Elementals live 
 up to their names, dispensing unending streams of irritating Lost Souls. Arachnotrons are like 
 little Spider Masterminds, but with fast plasma guns. And the Arch-Vile is simply the most evil 
 enemy id ever created. Not only can it resurrect dead comrades, but it has a nasty line-of-sight 
 attack that can nail you for over 80 health a pop. If you don't hide fast, you're toast. All told, 
 these new enemies increase the difficulty and diversity by an enjoyable degree and give your new 
 shotgun plenty of workout.
  
  The new levels, too, are an improvement on the old. While I'll always have a place in my heart 
 for the classic DOOM maps (episode 1 especially) , it's clear that id was much more experienced 
 in level design by the time it made DOOM II. Outside of a few gimmick maps, the layouts tend to 
 be more interesting and diabolical; some traps are downright nasty, and the designers make excellent 
 use of the new enemies and their unique abilities. (Map 13, "Downtown," is an all-time great.) 
 Even the textures tend to be well-aligned, which was a sore point in the first game.
  
  Overall, DOOM II is somewhat more dingy in appearance, with lots of browns and grays. This lends 
 itself to an ultra-depressing tone, augmented by almost unbelievably grim music. Some may prefer 
 DOOM's more cartoonish and energetic tech aesthetic and high-speed metal, but I actually like DOOM 
 II's darker, more moody nature quite a bit.
  
  Heaven on Earth
  
  DOOM II is an excellent sequel, subtly building on the merits of the original game to create an 
 even better, more complete experience. I suspect that those who were disappointed by its lack of 
 sweeping changes were probably not too big on the original DOOM in the first place. DOOM II polishes 
 the DOOM experience to an ultra-bright sheen, and still retains its status as the most complete-feeling 
 package that id has ever created. When it comes to out-of-control, edge-of-your-seat FPS action, 
 DOOM II is the real deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend-of-Evil
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Since I first played Doom 2, when I was about 9 or 10 years old, I have always accepted it as a 
 good installment of the great FPS franchise by id Software. As I played it, I saw that the original 
 graphics of Doom (or Ultimate Doom) had been upgraded and refined. It was faster and smoother.
 
  
  The soundtrack by Robert Prince, The Ultimate Doom, was a modified version of the original SNES 
 soundtrack. There is also one of these for Doom II, the music once again brilliantly composed, 
 and set to make a good atmosphere within the game.
  
  It's long, kind of repetetive, but very long. It has the same qualities of Doom, but it doesn't 
 quite have the spark that it deserves from its predecessor.
  
  It is still fun, and it's also added on more monsters, more scenery, and more textures, so all 
 the WAD creators can make fresh new material, with a new, refined look of the original Doom.
  
  By the end, you should feel accomplished, it's a long, and very hard journey, obstacles such 
 as the new monsters, the army of hell has grown in this game.
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Sound - 8/10
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Overall - 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Doom was an amazing game for the PC that did a lot for PC Gaming and Doom II looked to continue 
 that success by using the same formula. But in PC gaming the old "if ain't broke, don't fix it" 
 doesn't really always apply. While Doom II was still great fun and introduced new levels, weapons, 
 and enemies... even for it's time it still felt more like an expansion pack than a sequel. Also 
 it didn't take the opportunity to add some depth to an already vague story. However, even though 
 it did lack anything really new or added depth it was still great fun. Also at this time, Doom 
 was the poster child for every single group that was against video game violence and things were 
 really getting heated. For many gamers, like myself, just the fact I was playing Doom and Doom 
 II gave me a satisfaction of rebelling against those groups in my own way and exercising my freedom 
 of speech.... well.... more like my freedom to kill the living hell out of demons from... well.... hell. 
 How does that NOT teach someone good morale values? Demons from hell = bad! But I guess others 
 just didn't see it that way :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  If you're a long time FPS fan, then you must have heard of Doom. That game was one of the best-known 
 shooter games in the FPS community in its days, and it was rated one of the best games of all time 
 not so long ago. However, ID Software decided to continue the carnage by making a sequel to the 
 baddest and bloodiest old-school shooter ever: Doom II.
  
  If you like the original Doom, then you will definitely love Doom II. With 32 levels to play, you 
 will be blasting Hell's minions to shreds from the moment you start the game to the last level 
 of the game. There's also some new items added (You gotta love that super shotgun, packs the power 
 of a rocket launcher by using 2 shotgun shells) new designs and new enemies. The new enemies will 
 definitely make your life in Doom a living hell- imagine a monster that pumps plasma shots at you 
 or a demon that can resurrect dead monsters...
  
  Buy this game if you're a FPS fan. Even though this game's kinda old and out-dated, it's still 
 fun because even old games can be fun plus they are what make up the FPS game of the modern day. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  When Doom shareware was released in the early 90's, it was the number one downloaded file on almost 
 all major BBS sites. The game took the already solid formula of Wolf3D and added updated graphics, 
 sound, and weapons. It was not long after the release of Doom that fans were asking for another 
 volume of this excellent game.
  
  Doom 2 was the answer to every Doom player's dream. They took the original doom formula while adding 
 new monsters, a new weapon (double barrel shotgun) , and some very challenging levels. Some feel 
 that the lack of a new engine for Doom 2 was just lazy, but why screw with something that was already 
 rock solid? Like the old saying goes, "if it isn't broke then don't fix it."
  
  The levels of Doom 2 are well done. If this is your first time playing Doom 2, you might find yourself 
 stumped on some of the puzzles. The designers added enough puzzles to keep the gameplay fresh, 
 while never making it too frustrating. Gameplay was always flawless in Doom and Doom 2 keeps that 
 tradition powerful and over the top.
  
  I ran this game on DOSBox and found it worked well. There was some issues with colors and artifacts 
 in some of the more memory intensive levels, but nothing that would cause you to stop playing. 
 This is a great game that will keep you busy for hours past bedtime. It is best experienced with 
 the lights off and your favorite heavy metal music playing in the background. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaFan_Ssk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Doom II took the world by storm (literally, according to the storyline) in the fall of 1994 and 
 quickly became the top PC game of its time, and today it still manages to sustain that devilishly 
 evil charm. It took the familiar game engine of the original Doom and introduced brand new maps, 
 new monsters, and a new weapon that is considered one of the best FPS guns ever made. With all 
 of this exciting stuff backing up Doom II, is it enough to persuade you to find a copy of it? As 
 you'll soon find out, you too will be battling the endless hordes of Hell after this review.
  
  The gameplay in Doom II is pretty much the same as in the first Doom, but the storyline is 
 a bit different. It begins with the heroic space marine (AKA Doomguy) crash-landing on Earth after 
 defeating the demons in the UAC facility on the dual moons of Mars, but all he finds is that the 
 demons have invaded Earth and billions of people are already dead; so now you must help evacuate 
 the survivors and rid the planet of the threat. From then on, it's all about blasting any and all 
 foul creatures that cross your path. The weapon set is the same as the original Doom and a new 
 weapon, the Super Shotgun (double-barreled Shotgun with longer loading time and much more power) 
 has been added into the mix. Like before the gameplay is very fast-paced and frantic compared to 
 most other shooters; no matter how many times you have played through the game it always seems 
 like a brand new adventure each time. With tons of secrets, tactics, and other conditions like 
 monsters fighting amongst themselves it's hard to play a map the exact same way every time. Even 
 if you know particular maps completely by memory you'll still find some parts of the game being 
 completely unpredictable, and that is what will keep bringing players back for more.
  
  The graphics are the same as in the first Doom, it's still a 3D playfield that uses massive 2D 
 sprites for the enemies and items found throughout each level. When playing with the older programs 
 used to run the game (Doom95, DOS) it will looked fairly and feel fairly dated, I suggest for the 
 best experience graphically you should consider a source port like ZDoom or Skulltag. Modern source 
 ports allow the game to be play at a framerate of around 60 FPS, and present the game in higher 
 resolutions; some ports like Skulltag even give you the option of online multiplayer, which enjoys 
 a respectably sized community of players. These ports compared the the old DOS version with a cap 
 of 35 FPS and primitive multiplayer conditions make you wonder why the DOS/Doom 95 versions are 
 even worth playing today. A big part of Doom II are the sounds and themes; would Doom really be 
 the same without the terrifying roars of demons wandering the map or the huge bass BOOM when firing 
 the Super Shotgun at something? No, the sounds are what make the Doom experience even better. The 
 BGM is comprised of MIDI's, most of which are creepy sounding themes that are reminiscent of themes 
 from classic horror films, and others are adrenaline pumped rock/metal tunes that fit in nicely 
 with the fast gameplay.
  
  Today, it's pretty easy to find a full version of Doom II on the internet at no cost; or you can 
 filter through the older games at a computer store and try to find Doom Collector's Edition (also 
 has Ultimate Doom and Final Doom) for a few bucks. The player community also contributes a steady 
 flow of custom made WADs that will allow you to play multiple unique games all using the same Doom 
 II IWAD. There are literally thousands upon thousands of different possibilities out there for 
 playing Doom II, and the thought that you can get such a massive variety of gaming experiences 
 for next to nothing is pretty damn sweet. Doom II is easily worthy of a spot on anyone's harddrive; 
 it proves that big things can come in the smallest packages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willxcool
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Doom II - is the first action shooter that got me Hook to my Pc almost countless of hours, playing 
 it almost 24 hours a day, Doom II is has a very addictive game-play bringing you thru the deepest 
 part of Hell with your trusty Shoot-Gun and my fav Da Chainsaw, shooting imps, demons will never 
 be the same again. the only downside of it for me was the controls when u have your movement limited 
 to the arrow keys and the fire button seem to close that sometimes it give my fingers craps for 
 playing to long. but enuf ha been said Doom II is a must for all gamers to play it and to have 
 it in their Collection for this is a classic game for all and its one of my 1st FPS games that 
 i have played- Get ready- lock and load to the deepest part of Hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbathe
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This is one fantastic game. I played it both on the PC and the Sega 32x. I am such a fan of this 
 franchise, and always will be. Though the successor to the series far surpassed my skill level, 
 I dug out the old disks and uploaded it onto my laptop, and now I have a serious time waster for 
 lawschool. Thanks id software! lol. Seriously, a badass game that never fails to disappoint, some 
 13 years later. As I mentioned in my short blurb, I think a great business idea would be to throw 
 this onto a small arcade terminal and park it in your local bar. watch the alcohol soaked quarters 
 soak in from liquor hounds who are reliving their lost youth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breakdown84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Well here it is, my review of Doom 2. To be honest I love this and have game spent a lot of time 
 on it. Well anyway Doom 2 is great for a lot reasons aside from the awesome title. First is the 
 graphics, now I know they aren't pretty when it comes to the ultra-realistic 3D graphics of today 
 but when it comes to the between 2-D and 3-D graphics of the time it's purdy darn purdy. When it 
 comes to gameplay it's just fantastic because it's very simple, run and shoot then get to the end 
 of the level. Personally I would re-by the game just for the new addition itself... The DOUBLE BARREL 
 SHOTGUN. I mean come on how much more satisfying can it be after a hard day at work to just pump 
 a stupid zombie full of lead or I should say...2 BARRELS OF LEAD!!!!. How much cooler could it 
 get? Not much. Anyway just do yourself a favor and pick up a copy, you would be dumb not too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelsoldier666
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  I saw my father playing this game when i was Four, i watched him play and started playing it when 
 i was 6, was one of my favorite shooting games back then and i have been playing the game for almost 
 4 good years then stopped, but i returned to play it after some time, this game has more fun than 
 the actual... doom 3 now, the character with his facial changes showed on which the state of spirit 
 he was, and how hurt, most of the games now dont have this system, or at least none has, except 
 lands of lore I game that was released in 1994 if i aint wrong, This game was a revolution, Pretty 
 even to duke nukem 3d itself, its one of those games that just keeps giving us fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OWNaggio
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 8, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  What can be said about Doom II? It was the single most influential game in the genre of first person 
 shooting, and perhaps, in modern gaming in general. How many games today involve similar processes? 
 True, FPS gaming has evolved significantly since the days of the BFG and the cyberdemon, but when 
 you discover what makes a game truly fun to play, no matter if you play complex RPGs or Pac-Man, 
 one must acknowledge the heart of this great game.
  
  Gameplay
  Just because a game is not complex, doesn't mean it isn't great. There was nothing more satisfying 
 than walking into a room and having dozens of highly creative monsters running around just to get 
 blown to bits with highly satisfying weapons. They say a shooter is only as good as its guns, and 
 I'd have to say Doom II's double-barrel shotgun is perhaps one of the most satisfying guns ever 
 created. Even to this day, I smile when I blow away ten zombies in one shot. Simple, classic fun 
 that NEVER gets old.
  
  Graphics
  They may be completely outdated now, but I remember as a young kid seeing Doom on my computer for 
 the first time and being utterly amazed. The walls, the demons, the guns, everything! They are 
 forever etched in my mind as classics.
  
  Sound
  I may be one of the few, but I actually listen to Doom II's soundtrack on my computer. That midi 
 music may be simple, but damn it's catchy! Not to mention the sounds of the demons, but I think 
 everyone can agree that those are timeless in their execution.
  
  Value
  This is a game that I play through once or twice a year, just to relive the excitement. When you 
 count the countless mods, technically, it could never end.
  
  The Skinny
  I cannot possibly express the love I have for this game. It is my favorite computer game of all 
 time and anyone who hasn't already played it should break out their chainsaws and plasma rifles 
 and start owning some spiderminds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Doom
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Truley this is one of the best sequels in the history of the 20th century. This game is one of 
 the best Old graphic games I've ever played. Really it came after The Ultimate Doom but before 
 that fancy @$$ 3-D crap came along...... LOL I'm just kidding its a good game considering that 
 it is almost 5 or 6 years old its not nearly as Scary as Doom 3 but still kinda creepy when played 
 Max volume, With the lights out and the Door closed. This game is worth buying but buy the Collecters 
 Edition (Comes with Ultimate Doom, Doom 2, and Final Doom) . really this game along with Ultimate 
 Doom (other wise known as Doom 1) has a small sense of Humor when you beat the Game. Really this 
 game is quite hard and at times Frustrating because of the sick amounts of monsters. The Last Boss 
 battle with The Icon of Sin, is quite a eye popping battle scene because of the HUGE amounts of 
 monsters in the level. The Game itself is worth more than the $15-$20 dollars you can buy it for 
 now.
  
  Well this is Half_Doom signing off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stsple
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  I found out about this game when I was 7 years old. Pretty sad huh? Well my dad bought a pc back 
 in 1997 and Doom 2 was one of the games on there. He played it for a while but I really didnt 
 get into it until I was 17, or early 2007. That is when I realized that this game was one of the 
 biggest classic game hits of all time. It revolutionized the gaming industry to have more action 
 and violence in games. People compare Halo 2 and GTA San Andreas to be the best. Well I believe 
 Doom is what started it all and we have them to thank for those well bloody/death games that we 
 love to play today! Nothing can compare to this game and nothing will ever compare when it comes 
 to the best game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  This is the second 3D action shooter game I ever played on a PC. Back in January 1996, I just had 
 my first PC and a cousin of mine brought the five-disk Doom 2 for me. Five disks! Decompress and 
 its a 20 mb game. 20 mb!! I mean my hard disk was 1 gb then -- quite big during that time. A 20 
 mb game, to me, was mind blowing.
  The game was indeed mind blowing. The creepy environment, the MIDI based signature Doom music and 
 the hordes of monsters I killed for the first time took me by surprise. My earlier experience with 
 Castle Wolfenstein dealt with killing the Nazis, and this game was a big leap forward.
  The levels of this game was designed on a linear premise, you start from one point, kill the monsters, 
 solve the exit puzzle and move into the next level. Each level has increasingly tougher enemies 
 and harder puzzles. I can't exactly say how many nights I spent awake killing these alien monsters -- but 
 it extended for months. At one point, I had to start cheating as I could not cope up with the difficulty 
 level. That was, in fact, the first time that I learnt that you can cheat a PC game. Considering 
 that the game was developed in 1994, I must say that they did wonderful with the graphic works. 
 But the lack of voice contributed to the lack of personality of the hero.
  Overall, Doom 2 is an all time classic. Action gamers must experience this -- even for the heck 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Doom 2 is a bigger bad ass version of the original Doom. More monsters, bigger levels, and only 
 one extra gun unfortunately. Doom 2 rocks due to 32 levels and some missions where there is 50 
 to 100 units on the screen all trying to kill you. The precursor to Serious Sam and all of those 
 good type games. Doom 2 is a timeless classic that will not be forgotten. Just look at the cover 
 it's a Space Marine fighting a 70+ CyberDemon with a rocket launcher arm. That it a lot more then 
 the Ultimate Doom cover, and you fight multiple cyberdemons instead of one. Doom 2 is so great 
 some kid at my school copied to my high school's network so students could play it at school during 
 lunch time in the computer labs. Doom 2 is plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrafikEd
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  What is there to say about Doom 2? It's a FPS of the go psycho variety. You're up against Demons. 
 As with all FPS's, there are many different weapons to choose from, as well as the famed BFG, all 
 the way down to your knuckle dusters. There is a new addition too- A Super Shotgun. The enemies 
 are varied, and tough, and the powerups are cool.
  
  The graphics are 2D sprites, good for it's time but it suffers now. The music has gone from Doom 
 1's AWESOME to Horrible and depressing. The sounds are alright, nothing quite like hearing a cyberdemon 
 just before it blows you're head off.
  
  The only thing that really lets this game down from it's predecessor is it's horrible level design. 
 Ugh. It's so BLAND. Every level is the same in some way or another. In Doom 1 there were 3 different 
 types of levels- Base, Fort and Hell. In Doom 2 it's all the same- Crap. Every texture is brown, 
 it's not even FUN.
  
  The Boss has been replaced from the Cyberdemon to a GIANT GOAT SKULL TEXTURE AND THE WALL. Yes, 
 the final boss IS A TEXTURE.
  
  Luckily, the Multiplayer is AWESOME. A hell of a lot of fun which has kept me playing it all these 
 11 years. This game invented the name 'DeathMatch' and it damn lives up to it.
  
  All in all, Doom 2 is a fun game.... made better with ports like www. skulltag. com, but it could 
 get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The Gameplay for Doom 2 is brilliant for an FPS, The Gameplay never gets old and what brings you 
 back to the game over and over again.
  
  Graphics
  The Graphics for Doom 2 are a little old for today but it doesnt cause a problem when playing.
 
  
  Sound
  The sound is all right for Doom 2, It does have a few problems but like the graphics it doesnt 
 cause too much of a problem.
  
  Value
  This game has value, it will take you around 40+ hours to complete the story on all the difficulty 
 levels and has great multiplayer.
  
  Tilt
  Overall If you want a nice FPS to enjoy on the PC, You should try out Doom 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barcapuyol5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  If your a fan of the shooting games you have got to play this game and its predecessor. It added 
 a new way of playing games, at the moment it was fast it was hard and scary, at this time it's 
 only old school, but the ones that play it once will never stop playing it or having it in their 
 games folder. You can never get tired even if you already know the location of the monsters.
  It's also a progressive gam which gets harder as you pass levels and it's got the hardest endings 
 of all and the worst Final Boss, it's almost unstoppable, but with expertise you can handle it.
 
  I would recommend to anyone who enjoys shooting games to give it a try you won't waste your time 
 knowing the beginning of one of the most popular games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  A year after Doom, which sold many copies, ID software came up with Doom 2: Hell on Earth. It basically 
 is the same game, but there are more kinds of enemies to fight. The levels are all new and i found 
 hem a little bit bigger and better then in the original. There is one new weapon; the double barreled 
 shotgun. I never finished the game because the endboss always made my computer crash. It was a 
 goatlike picture on a wall that kept on spawning new enemies. Doom 2 is a bit better then Doom, 
 but it isn't as renewing as Doom was. However, the greater variety in enemies and the clever and 
 more varied level design, together with a typical hellish atmosphere make this one the best of 
 the two. In 2004 Doom 3 was released. I never played the game, but i hear it's pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_reardant
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  As I wrote in my review for the ultimate doom, the doom series is the best thing you could ever 
 wish to play. I still have Doom 2 on floppy disk and admittedly I do play it often, It's just not 
 possible to get bored of playing as a hardcore marine Gib-punching demons into kibbles.. Best story 
 line ever!
  But I'm disappointed that there was less than 9 for the sound rating by other reviewers. Surely 
 if you were a true die hard doom fan you'd have all bobby prince's stuff, the music for doom has 
 to be some of the best game music ever, apart from frank klepacki's work for Command and conquer.
 
  
  It's not to late to redeem your selves, play doom asap!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carbon07
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  What can you say about Doom that you haven't heard already? Chances are if you're into games, you've 
 atleast heard about this, but I'll write a review anyways as this is one of those games that actually 
 lives up to it's big reputation.
  
  Ok this is Doom 2 which takes place after the events of the first Doom. You were a space marine 
 trapped on another planet fighting hordes of invading monsters. You won, and managed to make it 
 back to earth, only to find the hell spawned demons had started to take over down here too! You 
 can read a whole lot more about the Doom story on some webpages, I'm not going to tell you it all 
 here, just to note that this is one of the most overlooked parts about this game. Sure, it seems 
 that all you do is kill kill kill, but if you want to know why you're doing all this, check out 
 the many websites about the Doom story. There was even some Doom novels and a movie released recently, 
 but I don't think it were true to the classic game.
  
  What's so good about this game anyway? Well I''ve been playing video games a while and I think 
 it comes down to one thing - fun. Doom is always that - the constant battle against the demons, 
 the different weapons, the way you have to find keys which are usually heavily guarded to exit 
 a level.... it all gets addictive to the point you realise you've been playing this game for years 
 and it's still fun to play levels even though you know every bit about them. The Doom game before 
 this and even the Final Doom game are really good too, but I have to come down in favour of Doom 
 2 as my favorite overall. I just like the level designs and it was the first of the Doom's to introduce 
 the Double Barralled Shotgun. Now I've said before games are fun and addictive but in this game 
 when you fire that particular gun and take down about 5 zombie men or a gang of Imp's all at once, 
 its impossible to describe to you how good this is! Also learning about the different monsters 
 and how they attack you is fun, and soon you know what every one of them will do. Graphic and sound 
 aren't great by todays standard's, but hey if gives the game character and it's way more than 10 
 years old now. The PC games are the ones to play, this game was ported to alot of consoles back 
 then, but if you had to play on any console version, I recommend the Playstation version, which 
 stays true to the PC games except a few levels are missing, but it also has some exclusive levels, 
 and a more horror-style ambient soundtrack, instead of the cheesy midi tunes you get on the PC.
 
  
  Overall a classic game that's still fun to play today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruce_the_Ugga
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  Words can't explain how wonderful this game is. I've got a tear in my eye just thinking about good 
 old 1995, when Doom was still fresh and amazing. In fact, I don't think I've ever had the same 
 experience with any other games since then. It's been foureteen years since we were blessed with 
 Doom, and thirteen since Doom II was born. These games demand respect, so be sure you give them 
 that respect lest I smite you into the ground! If god were a game, then I think he would be Doom 
 II. Well, was that a 1st rate review or what? I'm pretty stoked at any rate.
  
  Oh well, it's all gone now... Gone... Gone... GONE...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karljv
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  It is the single best game ever. Forget Crysis, Far Cry, RTCW, Quake
  This is the first and only game in the world that deserves the name DOOM!
  It is the father of 
 all games that are great, it is the single and only FPS masterpiece ever that deserves a 10 Perfect. 
 All others should get 9.99 but not higher... I say if u haven't played it. Buy it, download it 
 do anything to get it. Only then will you understand where all the fat computer Geeks started from. 
 It was then when the DOOM was released, when all the nerds sat together late at nights to play 
 DOOM on their 486 computers, on LAN. It's just that only this game deserves to be the true classic 
 of all time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmandes
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Doom II is the first of the first person shooter game that got me addicate to the series. There 
 is a monsters were fairly good variety of monster to aim and shoot down with all full array of 
 weaponary in the game. A new comer to first person shooter game will be impressed. Although, those 
 how had pervious experience with other later version or later first person shooter game will come 
 to appreciate the orginal idea that comes from the Doom II game. However, in term of graphic and 
 sounds system, doom II will pale in comparsion to others first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auxis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  When I first installed DooM on my PC, I thought I was going to regret it. I thought I was going 
 to delete it a second after. What I heard from people before was that DooM was a mindless monster 
 massacre. I also heard from other people that DooM is a classic game, starting a revolution in 
 the gaming world. People that haven't played that game always say it is stupid.
  Anyways, when I started the game, I was amazed - the sounds, the levels, the graphics, the monsters, 
 the weapons, everything was fantastic. I became a fan of DooM then. That was four or five years 
 ago.
  
  But now, we are talking about DooM II. In this review, I will declare what I think about this next 
 game of the series. I am sorry for any mistakes about DooM, that's what I know about it.
  
  Let's start with the positive part of DooM II. This game was released shortly after the Original. 
 Deformations since the Original are numerous, in the design of the levels, and in the gameplay. 
 The new things introduced to us in this game are a few new monsters, a new weapon, a new item, 
 a new look of the levels.
  
  The new creatures in this one are the Heavy Weapons Dude (or Former Commando) , though zombies with 
 a chaingun, the Hell Knight, somewhat less stronger than the Baron of Hell (in the original) , the 
 Mancubus, a big fat monster with rocket launchers instead of arms, the Revenant, a sceleton equipped 
 with guided missiles on its shoulders, the Arachnotron, spider-like cybernetic monster, armed with 
 a plazma gun (unlike the Spider Mastermind, Big Boss armed with a heavy Chaingun, present in Inferno, 
 Episode 3 of the Original) , the Pain Elemental, another floating head, like the Cacodemon, but 
 firing Lost Souls, the Arch-Vile, a demon able to cast spells and to revive other demons, and finally, 
 the Icon of Sin, the Final Boss of the game, firing little boxes from where diverse demons are 
 spawned. The new weapon is only one, the Double-barreled shotgun, which could fire out 21 pellets 
 instead of the regular shotgun's seven, making it very useful in dispatching Demons, Cacodemons, 
 and any form of medium-sized monster. It was the sign of the Old-school in DooM II, and it is the 
 favorite weapon for numerous gamers.
  
  The new item is the Megasphere, a combination between the Combat Armour (granting 200 Armour) and 
 the Soulsphere (granting 200 Heath) . Very useful knowing what there is in this game.
  
  The story is immediately following the events in the original DooM,
  where our nameless marine 
 comes back to Earth, only to see the billions of dead, the destruction and his old ''pals'' along 
 with new ones.
  
  The game is composed of 32 levels, from which 2 are secret. The first levels are on Earth, while 
 the last ones are on Hell. On these last levels, we can see their genious design - Walls covered 
 in human faces, all seeming to want scream out their pain, corridors with a long spine following 
 it to the exit, pools of lava, blood - A painting of Hell, filled with the most fearsome creatures. 
 However, you'll be able to see what Hell is only when you go there at the ''Nightmare'' difficulty 
 setting (which is nearly impossible without cheats) .
  
  This was the good part. Now comes the bad one:
  All these levels, in the whole game (except the 
 secret levels and in the Hell levels) , are BROWN. Everything, everywhere. Some levels are entirely 
 brown. others have a few other colors, like grey, green, but it is mostly BROWN! Why? The Earth 
 isn't that brown! This colors reminds of tunnels in the dirt! If it's on Earth, why isn't there 
 at least 5 levels out of all these 32 that are in a ruined town, in a house, in an office, or a 
 garden, or something... Why won't they tell us about it? OK, Underhalls (level 2) , The Waste Tunnnels 
 (level 5) or even The pit (level 9) are supposed to be underground, but what about the other levels? 
 Are our houses supposed to be made out of dirt? No! Why then? I guess we'll never find out.
  The soundtrack has changed a lot too - it isn't so DooM-like anymore. The style isn't the same, 
 the atmosphere is changing. The hardrock present in the original has disappeared.
  The difficulty has risen aswell - there are plenty of rooms filled with monsters, takiung your 
 life for seconds. Yet, that is not my point.
  
  My point is that all these little changes result in a big change - DooM II isn't so DooM-like. 
 DooM II isn't so colorful, DooM II is now hardcore, and your goal, when playing on a difficulty 
 greater than ''Don't Hurt Me'', has changed to Survival, not getting a high score on kill and secret. 
 The whole atmosphere changes and all you want is to get the hell out of there. The soundtrack is 
 the main thing causing this, but also that ''brown effect''.
  
  My conclusion is - play the original DooM (all three episodes) , then think about DooM II. Play 
 it and you'll see the difference. Of course, don't think that this game doesn't deserve any attention, 
 this game is great, maybe one of the greatest, but it's not The best.
  And also, in my opinion, you cannot begin your journey in DooM's universe with DooM II, because 
 it is just harder than the others. If you play it on low difficulty settings, you'll miss the fun, 
 the challenge. But starting with Hard levels will bore you to death from restarting all the time. 
 Well, it still isn't as hard as ''Thy Flesh Consumed'' (episode 4, in Ultimate DooM) , which is 
 just insane, but it still is something.
  
  And for the final, let me just say that
  ''DooM shall never die, only the players!'' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Perfect level design and amount of levels, new enemies, amazing life-span, fantastic 
 gameplay, graphics suit the game well, new weapon, multiplayer support.
  THE BAD: There is nothing bad about this game AT ALL!
  
  Doom 2 is the greatest PC game ever. 
 I love all the original Doom games, but this one's so good it's scary. Doom 2 featured more levels, 
 about twice as many new enemies, bigger levels and the Super Shotgun. All FPS fans know the Doom 
 gameplay- running around shooting anything that moves and picking up keycards. Simple, yes, BUT 
 IT'S SO DAMN GOOD!!! Yes, it's old but who cares? It's Doom we're talking about here! I'm sorry 
 but I cant describe anymore because it's that good and will always be my favourite game of all 
 time! Plus, all PC gamers, FPS fans or retro gamers must own this game to truly appereciate it's 
 dominating fury!
  
  BEST GAME 
  
  BEST 
 BIT: Playing through all the levels, it's never-ending fun!
  WORST BIT: I get kicked off the PC if I'm on for too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kraterman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Doom II is, and still will be, one of the best First Person Shooters in history. The game itself, 
 along with all the different array of monsters and weapons, provides a immersive, addicting gaming 
 experience. The fact that you are a Marine on a planet full of monsters from hell, and are blowing 
 the crap out of all of them with alot of crazy weapons, just maked the game plain fun. The actual 
 gameplay of the game is just pure amazing, and no game nowdays has provided the exact gameplay 
 ability of the Doom series. It is really hard to explain what is really fun about Doom II, I guess 
 it is the fact that your killing many monsters with Plasma guns and rocket Launchers just explains 
 it.
  The sound effects in Doom II, still maintain the entertaining killing sounds from the first one, 
 which never dies. Just the sound of the monster screaming as it gets blown to bits with a Rocket 
 Launcher is very satisfying. The only thing that I dont like about the game is HOW HARD IT IS! 
 Hundreds of monsters on either side trying to kill you is not my idea of Fair, but that is really 
 the only point of the game, which is trying to get to the end of the level without beign killed.
 
  
  All in all, the game is definently addictive, and is definently a must buy for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thestickdude
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 17, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this since I was a kid, and I still love playing it today! The sequel to Id's 
 first person shooter classic brings you new demons, a new weapon, and levels more exciting and 
 demon infested than before! This game will not disappoint! Doom 2 is just what you'd expect out 
 of a sequel. This game isn't as bright and fluorescent as the first Doom, this one is more dark 
 and more evil, giving it a slight feeling of fear. The music is probably one of it's best features! 
 You will definitely love the music this game has, I know I did! Plus the new monsters are so freakin 
 sweet, especially the Archvile, which is a speedy S. O. B that runs around burning you and reviving 
 the demons you just finished killing. It's insane! This is another one of those games that you 
 won't want to leave. You will enjoy every minute of this game, it's a masterpiece of it's time! 
 I will give it five exclamation marks. !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riggs8595
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  this game is real fun to play. it took me a while to finish the game though, but it is defintly 
 worth buying!!! its kinda like doom 3, but the monsters and zombies look kinda wierd, and you dont 
 have that much weapons. the graphics arent that good i think. the shotgun is pretty much the best 
 weapon in the game! its better than doom 1, but they both kick but!!! so, like i said this game 
 is awsome!!! oh yeah if you find it in stores (likley wont happen) it will be like $5.00, so dont 
 worry if you find it and you want to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon_02
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  as all of you know, DOOM is pretty much one of the greatest games of all time. what was so great 
 about was seer furousity and action it contained. DOOM 2 (Hell on Earth) did very well to continue 
 what DOOM started. it added a new weapon (the double-barrelled shotgun) , 32 new levels, and about 
 four new enemies if i remember rightly (the Mancubus, the Archvile, former Commando and a head 
 which spits out spirits) .
  
  if you haven't played or even heard of DOOM 2 and are a  
 kind of person (i went a bit too far with that didn't I?) , then i give a rundown on its tiny story.
 
  
  DOOM 2 is set like 5 minutes after the events of DOOM and takes place on Earth, hence the name 
 "Hell on Earth". you are a soldier who has just arrived home from the incident on Mars to find 
 Earth infested with demons and monsters. and so now you blast the human race to freedom. end of 
 story...
  
  while DOOM 2 is a lot better than DOOM in many ways, it didn't add anything really new to the gameplay. 
 the gun still aims for you, the same weapons are there apart from another shotgun, you still can't 
 jump or look all around the room. these would've helped DOOM 2 in a lot of ways regarding improvement 
 in gameplay. either way, the gameplay in just plain fun.
  
  the graphics haven't changed a bit (which looked great back then) or the sound effects. there are 
 new themes for each level but unlike in DOOM, in which the background music could be heard like 
 a stereo in car, DOOM 2's music can hardly heard at times.
  
  anywho, DOOM 2 adds a few new things and continues the DOOM series rather nicely. so if you've 
 got DOOM and are getting bored of it, which most of you should've with DOOM 3, pop this in your 
 hard drive and blast away with this great game. i can't until i get a copy of DOOM 3, yeah i know 
 its been out for ages, i just haven't around to it with the Resident Evil franchise taking over 
 my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABOLZOZ
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Doom is unbeatable it was the half-life of its time, and just as half-life 2 was extremely similar 
 to half-life one with half life 1 being the best of the two, Doom2 is similar to Doom1 with Doom2 
 being the best of the two.
  
  To me doom is the best shooter ever. The only competitor to date is Far cry which beats the hell 
 out of the boring half life 2.
  
  Doom2 can not be given an 8.5 this makes me very very very angry 
  Forget tactical shooters and 
 tell me if u can name a game that influenced the first person shooter genre more than the doom 
 series! .exactly u can not find any 
  Doom is an icon not just a great game
  So gamespot please remove that 8.5 and re-analyze the game and its influence before reviewing it 
 
  Thank u 
  Bye now bye
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_6483
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game is insane, multiplayer will blow you away.
  
  The artwork and character design is very creative and i like trhe fact that "the doom guy" can 
 run a million miles an hour. 
  The graphics for the time are insane, and the use of shading is done in a way that other games 
 couldnt. Monsters growl at you from around corners and scream in pain as you blow them away with 
 the BFG!
  If there was a doom 3 mode for this, i would download it in an instant!!1
  
  one of the best games i ever played and i still play it more than doom 3!@!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcksBocks360
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Yup. IT's back... DOOM is back. And it's called DOOM 2: Hell on Earth. Now the Demons have attacked 
 Earth, and theres more zombies\demons\other stuff to kill... again. which isn't a bad thing, is 
 it? Of course, since it takes place on Earth, you no longer have the green marine suit you needed 
 in space. there is a new weapon that you will be using, the Super Shotgun, which does a hefty amount 
 of damage for something you get early in the game. The entire game consists of One episode, but 
 that episode contains 30 levels and 2 secret levels, so don't get discouraged. Definately get this 
 game if you liked Doom and want more of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauler89
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 1, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  Doom II is the sequel to the hit game, Doom, which introduced numerous concepts to gaming such 
 as the ability to move around in three dimensions, the use of power-ups, and deathmatch. While 
 Doom II isn't as revolutionary as it's predecessor, it still very fun to play. 
  
  Doom II contains the same style of gameplay found in Doom: enter a level, blow away anything that 
 moves, and go to the exit. While the gameplay in Doom II is essentially the same as Doom, it is 
 kept fresh due to the addition of new monsters and a new weapon, the double barrelled shotgun. 
 The new monsters present the player with new challenges, among them running for cover after a heat 
 seeking missile has been launched at you or when an Arch Vile has started to cast an undodgeable 
 flame spell. 
  
  Doom II's graphics are of the same quality as those of Doom. Again, while they are not up to standard 
 as far as modern games go, they serve their purpose well. Like in Doom, Doom II's graphics can 
 suffer from pixilation when viewing objects from a distance on certain machines. However, this 
 problem did not crop up very often in Doom, as most of the fighting took place in confined areas. 
 Doom II, on the other hand, features many large, open environments with enemies scattered from 
 one end of the map to the other, a good deal of which are to be found outside the structures in 
 those levels. Due to this, pixilation can occur fairly often.
  
  Doom II also features the same sound effects from Doom, and then some. The new demons' cries sound 
 great, and the new DBS sounds pleasntly powerful. Again, the MIDI files sound a little outdated, 
 but are still fairly good background tunes. Most of the soundtrack consists of 'revving up' pieces 
 of various volumes, with a few soft tunes thrown into the mix. None of the latter come close to 
 the disturbing quality of the vocals in Doom, however.
  
  Doom II is a fun game, no question about it, but it just does not feel the same as Doom. First 
 off, the decision to utilize large environments with open outside areas in many of the game's levels 
 replace the clausterphobic feeling Doom had with a sense of frustration as you try to navigate 
 your way through the level. The huge monster count per level and new soundtrack style also alter 
 the experience. Instead of being constantly on edge for fear of a monster surprising you, you are 
 almost always shooting at vast herds of demons. Instead of fighting to a soundtrack designed to 
 make you experience a wide range of emotions, you will find yourself blasting happily away to driving 
 action music that makes you feel completely invincible.
  
  The storyline of Doom II is another sore point. While Doom's story wasn't the greatest tale ever 
 told, it far outshines the simplified story exhibited in Doom II. You arrive back on Earth after 
 the events in Doom and find that Earth is overrun by demons. After all your buddies are killed, 
 it is up to you to save mankind. But, id games are not known for their sensational stories, so 
 it is of little consequence.
  
  One personal problem I found with the 32 level campaign was that you don't always feel you are 
 where the game tells you you are. For instance, when you first enter Hell, the environment doesn't 
 begin to look Hellish until the next few levels later. Even the sky stays the same until that same 
 point, showing a human city in ruins. The only level on Earth that feels remotely plausible is 
 the Downtown area, but even that requires a slight strech of the imagination. This is definitly 
 a step back from Doom's efforts to convince you that you were where you were.
  
  Doom II is a classic FPS that presents the player with an action packed gaming experience, but 
 replaces the creepy atmosphere of Doom with a feeling of being in complete control of any situation. 
 Regardless, this is a fun game that any self respecting gamer should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramoe
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I just saw the game and picked the game up and I have been playing it since then. I think that 
 this game is not as good as Doom 1 though. Doom 3 was a good game but it was not as good as Doom 
 1 and Doom 2. The game has great gameplay and it gives you hours of gameplay and it is a very action 
 packed game. The graphics are very good for the year the game came out. The game can get you addicted 
 to playing it and play it for hours and hours. The sound was pretty good on your character and 
 also on the monsters when you hit them with any of your guns. The guns do a lot of damage to rhe 
 monsters you hit it with. This game has so many words to say why this is a very good game and a 
 very stress relieving game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The next installment in the Doom series rocked, of course. Whats really to say that if u havent 
 played this game your a loser and should not consider yourself a gamer at all. It is one of the 
 classic granddaddys of gaming, so play it already.
  Just like Doom 1, but now they added some new guns and levels. Prepare to feast on demons from 
 hell and on earth. They swarm everywhere and you must use your super awesome guns to blow them 
 apart.
  Like i said, there really isnt much to say, just play it over and over again till your eyes are 
 bleeding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavediss
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 27, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  First of all Doom II is a classic. It changed the way we think, react and play regarding to game 
 interaction. It was not the first in its genre but it became a symbol. It is quite impossible to 
 think about FSP games without remembering Doom II. Even today is totally playable and fun. And 
 probably that is Doom is all about: fun. Thre is no complicated objectives or difficult skills 
 to learn. That does not mean that you can have lots of surprises and get killed many and many times. 
 Best of all is that the fans made lots of new leves or total conversion mods for playindg and make 
 the pleasure much longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 21, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing Doom II for about 4 years now and when i first played on it, i was still quite 
 an old game. but for an old game it has good graphics, and sound. 
  
  Comparing DOOM to DOOM II
  Graphics: DOOM II has more efficient graphics than DOOM but they look 
 the same. 
  Sound: DOOM II has a little bit more bg music
  Gameplay: More weapons like the Super Shotgun. 30 More Levels. More Monsters. A more detailed end 
 of level stats screen.
  
  Doom II has new monsters like the lightning monster. The last level is the best of the new levels 
 . It has new cheats. And as ever the Mulipayer Options are ahead of its time. With Internet or 
 LAN multi player play.
  
  Another review by Webmessia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qUaK3_G0d
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  Ahh Doom, what a great series. I can still remember when I was around 6 years old and I would always 
 play it with cheats lol. Doom II is a sequel to one of the first FPS's ever (which I think was 
 revolutionary at the time) . The story of Doom II takes you to the depths of hell and back to your 
 home planet where ever that is, but the story lines were not all that innovative back then. However 
 you will be versing zombies, revenants (skeletons with mounted rocket launchers) , Cacodemons (big, 
 fat, red, floating, one-eyed monsters, my fav ^_^) and lots of other creative demons. The game 
 really is expansive and fun. Th graphics and sound were great for its time too. Plus if your into 
 mapmaking you can make some REALLY sweet single or co-op levels for Doom II which is lots of fun! 
 Overall nothing can describe Doom II, except the word "Perfect." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 18, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  DOOM 2 is the best in the series. I have played a million times and finishing it in 3 days. It 
 was a great game with the DOOM series. The gameplay is good and i say it is really fun playing 
 doom games. I have all three games except DOOM3 which ia m getting soon. DOOM 2 is much better 
 because it has great levels and i like the boss level when you fight against all of these creatures 
 and you have to shoot a missile or something through the Ram's mouth in the wall. That level is 
 Hardcore. Even though it has cheats i have played it without cheats about 5 times and played it 
 with cheats about 2 times but it is really cool. So get this game because it rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything has all the weapons has the cool heavy metal music thats worth listening 
 to which isn't surprising though because id games sound awesome Quake 2 had my favourite music 
 ever I think it's better than most sure this game doesn't make much sense and doesn't look good 
 but man it's Doom if you doubt Doom then **** you check it out you know I'm sure you cvould justb 
 download this game with Doom or get the Doom collecters edition which has Ultimate Doom, Doom 2 
 and Final Doom 3 classics in a genuine franchise which I hope lives forever (I Love it!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Games
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Doom II is not the best game of all times but is good, you can play al day without getting bored 
 but the graphics are a bit hmmm not to good even though considering the time it was released. As 
 it was one of the first game's ever released to computer that really made an impact on people. 
 now a days is not so popular, is more popular Doom III very good game.
  enjoy this game but consider playing Doom III is much better than this ancient version not quite 
 good. Weapons are not yet develpoed ... bye bye bye rest is boring
  
  Have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  I remember Doom 2 so well even though it was a very early game. This may have been a pretty old 
 game from the time in present but this was and is simply one of the best. The gameplay of this 
 game overpowered so many others games at the time of its release. The graphics are great and even 
 though the enemies are 2d, they make it still feel like they are 3d.
  
  The sound basically comprived of enemies noises and gun shots. There was even music that fitted 
 the mood of the level. There are loads of levels in Doom 2. There are so many that I cannot remember 
 them all. Most of them are very big and all very fun. This game can be very hard at many moments. 
 The story is very random and every level doesn't have a connection with the previous one but it's 
 not such a bad thing because the game is just so fun. Doom 2 is one of the best first person shooters 
 that I can think of and probably still is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Well this game offers nothing new from the doom game except new monsters and more levels. Extremly 
 satisfying after a long day at the office and a good trip down memory lane, however just dosent 
 have the story other shooters did.. (hexen etc..) Although fun, if your looking for somthing more 
 then openning a door and shooting at the cannon fodder this game will leave you disapointed. However 
 if your into the hack and slash of countless faceless monsters and are in no need of using your 
 brain for any more then pulling a trigger then you my friend have found the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  I mean it was Doom that defined First Person Shooting. The game is a classic as a kid I was terrified 
 of even switching the computer to play doom 2. It was one of the games that came with my computer.. 
 The game was revolutionalry and after all I finished the game. It started a huge hype which has 
 brought us to the pressent most popular genure of computer games the FPS's. From Far Cry to Doom3 
 and Quake to Half LIfe 2. They only keep getting better as time goes by..
  
  And it was what started the first Multi Player hype as well as Doom 2 went online for players, 
 at a time when online gaming was only a dream. This game made it come true. now the most awesome 
 game of 2004 has come out to be Doom3 with revolutionsry graphics and more scares. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamQur
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 15, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Over the many years i know for sure that millions have played DOOM or/and DOOM 2, If not played, 
 then heard of it. I'm sure as hell if you have played any, and i mean ANY of the doom games, that 
 is before doom 3 of course, will know what they are in for. Just playing ten minutes, two words 
 will come in your mind, INSTANT CLASSIC. Oh yeah definitly. Because it is a 2-D, the graphics aren't 
 really that good though are they, considering its for the PC, but that's what makes classic games 
 like this, Pure Gold. For a game like this, the sound is pretty mediocre, yet it's not that bad. 
 Yes the game doesn't have that good graphics and mediocre sound quality, the Gameplay is Fantastic, 
 and that is what makes is worth playing, therefore giving me giving it a high score for Tilt. Its 
 old but just like the First,
  
  ITS AN INSTANT CLASSIC
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoldySTD
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This game had such excellent weapons like the bfg9000. The graphics were amazing for it's time 
 and are still cool to look at today. The demons were sick like the imps and the barons of hell. 
 This game has excellent replay value and will keep you wanting to go level after level. The final 
 boss was the only flaw witch wasn't realy all that bad since their was tons of monsters surrounding 
 you after a short time. The whole concept of running through each level blasting everything until 
 you got to the switch that would end the level may sound dull but was executed very well keeping 
 you go with the thought of a new gun or demon or amazing enviroments or a cool new music track. 
 Overall, This game was an amazing expierience and should not be missed even to this day. This game 
 is more fun than some of todays hottest titles. Overall, what are you waiting for get this game 
 immiediately! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david465
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Doom 2 was the game to get! it was the game that stood out from any other game. When i was about 
 5 years old, i usto watch my brother play this... aahhhh good times, good times. Then when i was 
 9, he had it on his computer again! I love this game, the graphics at the time were the best graphics 
 around, and this game introduced the gaming world what could be accomplished in the year of ummmm.... 
 whatever year this came out. I assume that the sound was good and a bit scary, i never heard the 
 music because when my brother usto play, he would have blur song 2 in the background... aahhhhh 
 good times gooooooood times..... The gameplay is the best, i could play this game for 3 hours straight 
 and beat it 5 times without getting bored, i was simply obssessed with shoothing the cr** out of 
 hellknights etc. This game is worth the full price that it cost when it came out, it was the best 
 game out there. And you could play it over and over and over again and never get a slight feeling 
 of boredom. The tilt is pretty good, everything is responsive, blowing the cr** out of demons with 
 a bfg-9000 is always fun.... ahhhhh... good times, good times...... The puzzle elements were fun 
 to.... ahhhh... i miss you bfg 9000 from doom 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Doom 2 was a great game of its time. I don't exactly know the story but mostly you just pick up 
 weapons and shoot the s**t out of zombies, invisible things, monsters, and people so gameplay is 
 great, although the game is kinda easy for me. Truly after seeing games with better graphics like 
 call of duty and games like that, Doom 2 is not that nice to look at but is is still fun, same 
 goes with the sound. Doom 2 is still a great game and everyone should give it a try, you just might 
 like it, if you don't then i understand and i'm not against you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtdewtag
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Doom II picks back up when you arrive back on earth. You discover that earth is being taken over 
 by some of those ugly aliens you just sent packing on Mars. Worse though is there is a bunch of 
 new aliens, but have no fears you have some extra hardware to deal with them.
  
  Gameplay: A straight-forward shooter. Pick your weapon and just start blasting. One major improvement 
 on this game is that you now shoot at monsters that are higher up or lower then you. In the previous 
 Doom you were only allowed to shoot at monsters on the same level as you.
  
  Graphics: Slightly improved from the original. However you can still with this version as with 
 the original import your own WAD files and change the look of the game. This keeps the graphic 
 level at just above average.
  
  Sound: Lots of booms and monsters screaming. Other then that not too much to say here.
  
  Value: 
 If you are a hardcore follower of Doom this is a nice addition to your collection. This game showed 
 that Doom still had alot of potential. 
  
  Tilt: Doom II even by today's standards for first person shooters is still in the running. Granted 
 it is not alot of eye candy or an impressive story. But at it's core Doom II is a shooter plain 
 and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aghost69
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  well i will just write one review for all of the origanal doom games.
  i am only 13, and ive been playing doom since i was about 5, and ive allways loved it! 
  SideNote: 
 I used to call Imps, Whimps:
  anyway, its a great game with lots of places you can go and you can open TONS of trap doors so 
 look around, and if you didnt allready now, 
  if you liked Wolfenstien, ID ( the makers of Doom) make 
  Wolfenstien aswell, exept Doom was 
 allways * and still is * better that Wolfenstien. You can do a super run, and in all there are 
 only 9 wepons (that sucks) but they are pretty good wepons,
  
  1: Fists with spiked ring
  2: Chainsaw
  3: Shotgun
  4: Double Barrell Shotgun ( only in doom 2 )
  5: Chaingun
  6: Rocket 
 Launcher
  7: A plasma rifle type thing
  8: BFG! * Big Friendly Gun * *Note: not so friendly* AHAHHAHA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justhammy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Everyone knows the original Doom. Considered one of the best games of all time! It was action-packed 
 , revolutionary and very addictive! The sequel does everything what the first game did and added 
 the double barreled shotgun, new enemies and GREAT levels! 
  
  The Graphics in this game are simply unbelievable (in that time) . I still remember myself just 
 watching to the game without playing it. It was a great experience. 
  
  The story isn't that important, because its DOOM!!! Why should we get a story. Leave that to other 
 games! It's very funny to hear the enemies' sounds all over the place without even being able to 
 see them! The sound in Doom 2 is as perfect as the first one! The music, sound effects.. everything 
 is perfect! I can't stop saying that word.. PERFECT! I can say that about the gameplay too, because 
 the simple action-packed gameplay is still as addictive as it was in the original Doom! 
  
  This game is a Masterpiece! It is even better then the first one!
  Hands down to ID! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxpayne10
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the first major ones to feature an unheard of amount of blood and gore. Thius 
 game is a classic. I can't say I ever beat it but it is fun. Each level you progress to the mobsters 
 gets uglier and uglier. I think a really nice touch is the fact that you have your characters face 
 down at the bottom if the screen and that was awesome. This game will go down in history as one 
 of the greats. If you haven't played this game it's never to late to give it a try. This game is 
 awesome and no ammount of words can describe it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario848
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Yeah Doom 2 maybe longer and harder but its almost the same thing as the ultimate doom by the graphics 
 and the creatures but its longer. The game does'nt have episodes so its a continueous game until 
 you beat it. the main goal in this one is to kill satan that bloody deer skull thing that I shot 
 rockets at, but the ending was better at least it had one. It still made me dizzy while I was playing 
 it up to the 27th level. there is something about this doom that made me depressed maybe the music 
 I don't know. but the game is still awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1992
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Epic, Amazing, It's almost 10 years from when it come out and I still play it like crazy. I can 
 play the game over and over a million times and not get bored of it. This classic will, definately, 
 catch you onto the game and take you through a ride you'll never forget. I started playing the 
 game when I was 5, I'm 13 now and I still enjoy this game.
  
  Gameplay: Run and kill. Blast, run a little more, click a switch, run some more, kill some things. 
 Blow stuff up, kill some more things, find a key, take the key, find the door it goes to, unlock 
 it. Go though, continue. Etc. I love it!
  
  Graphics: Hey, they were good at the time! But they didn't improve over Doom 1.
  
  Sound: Dumb 
 sounds. But the music was cool!
  
  Value: Great replay value and it's a very long game. It's hard to stop playing after a while, ya 
 know?
  
  Overall: Get Doom Collectors Edition and play away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Booshka
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:57 am PT
Review:  Nice lighting effects is the only thing i can give this game over every other FPS out there.. too 
 much of the same in other respects.. Its nothing special.
  Maybe its just me getting sick of every FPS being basically the same as every other with just a 
 different Skin, thats how i feel about Doom III.. its nothing new.
  
  The sound is basically the same as other games, can frighten in places if you play with no lights 
 on and the sound up.
  
  Playability, it plays the same as any other FPS, nothing Innovative and apart from the lighting 
 effects, its the quality of graphics i would expect for the time of relase.
  
  If you can, pick it up from a bargain bin, it ain't worth ful price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiniGuns
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:06 pm PT
Review:  doom 2 is better than the orginal doom in every way more foes, more guns, and you get to destory 
 their creator and this time the battle is on earth. doom 2 will scare you and a good time killing 
 demons but the downside is its really not different from the first one doom game and the graphics 
 look the same as the first one doom game. the goodsides to doom 2 is that there is more foes and 
 more levels than the first one. you will be playing this game for awhile because its fun and its 
 hard to beat. this game and doom l think should be in the video game hall of fame. if you find 
 this game at a yard sale, or in the used game bin at your video game store go get it because the 
 game its fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeriousSean
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Doom... I hadn't played any of the original Doom games for years until this year in my Web Design 
 class. The class has much free time, you see. This game is still very fun. Playing coop has never 
 been this much fun period, I actually find the coop on this more entertaining that that of the 
 Halo series of games. Just to sit there with a friend and fill stupid monsters full of lead, plasma 
 and chunks of hot metal has never been so fun; if you get bored you can always shoot your friend 
 in the face and start a death match. The single player manages to be fun also (not as fun as coop, 
 methinks) . I can't really say much about the graphics, awesome for the time but pretty bad, understated, 
 by todays standards. The sound always made me laugh, always. Maybe I'm sick, but i have always 
 found the howls of pain from the monsters to be highly amusing. You can still find the collectors 
 edition in bargain bin, or on ebay/amazon. All around this is still a great game and will always 
 be, anytime you just wanna make something die and laugh at the funny squishy pop noise they make 
 when hit with a rocket then this game is for you... ha.... squishy pop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooMbringer8000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2005 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Doom, a technological advancement, a violence advancement, now time to exit the UAC and enter the 
 blood soaked, burning depths of Hell itself, you start in the wreckage of UAC, where the first 
 one left off, you smash your way through UAC and eventually end up back on earth where you find 
 everyone dead as a doornail (Cliche city) i'm sorry for the cliche, but let me get back to my summary/review/story. 
 the dead turn to zombies, demons, imps and such and you must kill them, after you destroy earth 
 you go back to the UAC for one more trip, HELL BABY! so now your in hell, you shoot the living 
 crap out of some big demons and end up in the heart of hell, where satan lies, shoot his brain 
 and he's dead of course or use a cheat (idclip) to enter the face of satan and see the game creator's 
 head on a pike, just shoot that and end the game, woops i just made a mini walkthrough, well i 
 loved everything about this game but the fact that the amount of demons wasn't as overwealming 
 as the original Doom, but everything has its faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominustempus3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  love it love it love it, and will keep on playing it till it's all over and done with and redo 
 hahahaha, on even harder levels and defeat it again, argh!!!!, and all the cheatsI can use over and 
 over gain likes maps likes all weapons, likes shooting them all up, just the secrets are so hard 
 to find, control is a littile jerky, but get use to it. graphic are fine, monster so ugly, just you 
 get suprised sometimes facing the wrong way and the pop out at you, or facing the wrong way for 
 a ramp, or fall and almost break your neck, cheats are so good. navagation is hard, but trying to read 
 a map and move and shoot and get hit open doors all at the same time argh!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 5, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Doom II is the first FPS which actually went anywhere. this game had everything one had to have, 
 intense fighting and blood and amazing weapons. this game has horror elements and suspense and 
 also a lot of carnage which is very nice but sometimes can be very disturbing, not for the weak 
 peoples.
  
  Hell has broken loose on earth (literally) and you have to go undo it even though you had nothing 
 to do with it breaking loose but its ok for the first shooter ever isnt it? this game has great 
 weapons such as the double barelled shotgun and awesome bosses and this game is very long, it will 
 take you hours and hours of continous gameplay to finish this. 
  
  This game did start it all. it was the first shooter and its worth playing. just because its over 
 10 years old does not mean this game is boring, this game is great. thank you iD software for make 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 30, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  DOOM II may be the greatest game ever, this mostly everyone already knows. The campaign is long 
 and difficult, filled with great maps, weapons, enemies, and cool situations. There is little more 
 to the game then straight up action but it has a kind of maze like feel which can sometimes make 
 levels challenging or frustrating from time to time. There is only one new weapon added from the 
 first game, a double-barreled shotgun, but it is an important one when it comes to dealing with 
 different situations. The added enemies like the Pain Elemental and Revenant are not trivial changes 
 but add new dimensions to certain fights. Some levels are simply imcredible in what they do. Like 
 a room where a Cyberdemon and Mastermind come down to attack you but usually if played out right 
 turn to battle each other. The co-op and versus offer some of the most fun Ive ever had in a videogame. 
 Period. This is a game that will forever stand as one of the milestones in the industry's history. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aggie1295
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 20, 2005 2:22 am PT
Review:  Doom II is the game that really got me into PC gaming. I had played Wolfenstein 3D and Doom a few 
 times prior to getting Doom II, but Doom II is what got me hooked. It was one of the first PC games 
 that was immersive and action packed, and the add-on levels just kept making it better.
  
  Looking at the game now the graphics are definitely dated, but they were breataking at the time. 
 They did a good job of creating a very creapy world, even if it didn't look as realistic as the 
 current games. The monsters were fun to fight, and even though it didn't have much of a story is 
 kept me interested. One of the most interesting challenges was trying to find all of the Easter 
 Eggs and hidden rooms. That was part of the fun of each level. The monsters were creative and added 
 something new to each level.
  
  The add-on levels also were a major part of Doom II. Even after finishing the main game, the extra 
 levels you could get kept the game interesting. Some of the best levels were mod made by fans. 
 I can still remember the Alien mod and thought it worked great in a FPS.
  
  Overall, Doom II was a great game. It may be old now, but it changed a lot of how PC games were 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_pink666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 15, 2005 1:46 am PT
Review:  In short this is one of the greatest games ever. Okay it is over ten years old. And the graphics 
 are, well, its down right prehistoric. This is the first shooter I ever played and got me addicted. 
 I remember playing this game back in grade school, I am now in college. God knows how many hours 
 I wasted playing this game. I once played this game for eight hours straight! It was revolutionary 
 then and still a kick now. Only shame is that it doesn't work on my new PC. If you're old (30) 
 and you want to relive your childhood this is it. Mabe if you are too young and you don't know 
 what the hell I'm yapping about, you should take a look at what the shooter once was. Granted the 
 graphics look like they belong on a handheld, or cell-phone, the game is the best of the series 
 and arguably one of the most important in the early years. Be warned that this game is only for 
 those that love the old school games. This game maybe older than some modern gamers, but it will 
 always linger in my conscience as one the greats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hosam_Saif
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  It's a very old game , that's right , but that doesn't mean it's boring , it's one of the most 
 interesting games and if any one try it now - after 11 years of it's releasing date - he will have 
 a lot and a lot of fun.
  
  It's graphics was bad but it makes the job! it has enough effects to make it a good game like the 
 fire of shooting and the explosions of rockets.
  
  The music and the sounds is suitable for a First Person Shooter game , the music is awesome and 
 makes the player get hot in playing the game , shoot here and there non stopping shooting nor stopping 
 moving!
  
  At least Doom II deserve to be bought and to be played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mauro_Rosati
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Doom II, how many memories thinking about this game, awesome gameplay, the co-op multiplayer mode, 
 deathmatch, and so on and tons of mods and add-on levels.
  One word: "GREAT". 
  You can't waste time talking about this game, you must run it and play it again and again, without 
 stopping.
  I think that the Doom saga with the first Wolfenstein 3D has written and invented the history of 
 the FPS thanks to the geniality of the founder of ID Software John Carmack, thanks John for these 
 great games.
  It's a blast from start to finish, tons and tons of monsters in front of you make the gameplay 
 fast paced and only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jah_Glow
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2005 3:20 am PT
Review:  Doom 2 is a classic First-Person Shooter that defined the genre, for me, at least. Nearly a decade 
 after buying the game, and after my impression (which was being intimidated by its seemingly apparent 
 difficulty) I installed it on my Windows-ME-operating computer and decided to play it. I had no 
 idea that Id be in fact playing one of the best FPS games for the PC.
  Before Doom 2, I had no experience with First-Person Shooters or PC Games. I actually am horrible 
 at the new First-Person Shooters, at least the ones I have played. So when I first played it, I 
 turned off the Enemies and walked through the level to acclimate myself with the games graphics 
 and feel. Compared to todays graphics, Doom 2s graphics are outdated, but that does not detract 
 from the experience at all.
  After getting the controls adjusted to my liking, the game was a lot easier than I thought it would 
 be. Its a rush from storming through the levels and blasting away at enemies. The Shoot first, 
 ask questions later gameplay doesnt get old too quickly; I imagine that I will be playing this 
 for some time to come. I havent stopped yet. There is just enough of a puzzle element to keep 
 the gameplay from getting repetitive, but not so much as to deter from it.
  After getting adjusted to the controls the game is a blur of slaughtering enemies both weak and 
 strong. Its the first FPS game I have any skill with, so this game is easily suggestible to newbies 
 to the genre, unlike many of todays games (both console and PC alike) . As my first PC game, it 
 single-handedly won me over to the PC genre. Its controls are easy and reliable  not to mention 
 fully adjustable. 
  The sound, though not in-depth, does not detract from the experience. Over time youll learn to 
 love the sound of picking up a gun and fallen enemies, and youll develop a natural reaction of 
 vigilance to the sound your invisible foes make. The music is pretty good; fitting and symbolic 
 of the day and age it was made in. 
  The space Doom 2 takes up on your hard drive is about the size of ten MP3s, startlingly minimal 
 compared to todays games that take up about one or more gigabytes on your hard drive. The minimum 
 system requirements needed to play Doom 2 are so minute that any computer nowadays can handle the 
 game with ease. Overall, as a Win-95-age game, Doom 2 still provides a thrilling and addicting 
 experience for amateurs and experts alike, and well worth your time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arathin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  Doom II is what we know today as a Classic. Everything about Doom II was amazing around it's time, 
 and even the gameplay is still considered amazing today. What could be more fun than utter carnage 
 in an FPS game?
  
  Mars is invaded by a hellish army of mutants, zombified soldiers, and the like. It is up to you 
 to hoarde of the incoming monsters and send them back to where they came from. Although the story 
 is simple and throughout the game you only ever experience about three screens of text describing 
 what's going on, it doesn't really matter to a game of such high standard. What is lost in the 
 story is made up for in terms of gameplay.
  
  The graphics are a mix between 2D and 3D. The enemies and weapons appear 2D, but the actual background 
 itself is 3D. Although it may seem a little out-of-place compared to todays standards, at the time 
 it was a great leap into the three dimensional universe.
  
  Where would a FPS be without a stockpile of weapons? Doom II features six different weapons, ranging 
 from a chainsaw to the massively destructive force of the BFG. The weapons are greatly associated 
 with the gameplay, and add another aspect to the diverse world of Doom II.
  
  Doom II features a very intriguing multi-player network system. Several players can log onto the 
 network to participate in co-operative missions or a deathmatch. The multi-player system can keep 
 you entertained for hours on end.
  
  The game features an entertaining soundtrack which adds to the feel of the game. What's more, the 
 sound effects were excellent for it's time as well.
  
  Doom II is considered one of the greatest games of all time. Even nowadays it is well worth purchasing. 
 Now you can even buy a triple pack containing Doom, Doom II, and Final Doom. If you haven't played 
 this all-time classic, now is the time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewisty
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2004 1:55 pm PT
Review:  simply put DooM, at least in my mind, is the best of all time. In fact it should be noted that 
 were it not for Doom we may not be experiencing the fruits of the gaming world right now. Those 
 who doubt this i'd like to note i said may not.
  
  
  Gameplay : 10
  
  overwhelmingly easy, yet suitable for the game. At the time sure you couldnt jump, crouch or crawl, 
 you simply didn't need to. You were way too busy blasting enemies to care.
  
  Graphics : 10
  
  Hey, at the time, boy were they something ground-breaking. The first time 
 my dad brought in the original DooM, I remember seeing our computer lag like it had never lagged 
 before.
  
  Sound : 10
  
  Just like the graphics, brilliant. Countless times i remember hearing the moans and the grunts 
 of the demons. you could probably even have an accurate guess of where they were coming from. sooo, 
 particularly at the time, groundbreaking.
  
  Value : 10
  
  hmmmmm, best game of all time errrr.... yeh thats good enough reason to give value a 10.
  
 
  Tilt : 10
  
  grief did my skool work suffer lol. hours and hours of fun. Tho the levels were the same each time 
 you played, it still seemed like a completely new experience each time you played it. truly ..... 
 too much fun !!! 
  
  Overall :
  
  The game that got me forever hooked in the gaming world has never, nor will it ever, lose it's 
 charm. Its a timeless classic. Thanks ID for changing the gaming world forever !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFBrat77
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:31 pm PT
Review:  DOOM 2, the 1994 sequel to the revolutionary 1993 DOOM sadly slipped into the shadow of its predecessor 
 on its release. Nevertheless DOOM 2 is a superior game to the original and through incredible level 
 design, great singleplayer, and the introduction of modem multiplayer, the game is the true blueprint 
 for all that followed in the FPS world. It is THE epitome of the best of the old-school shooters, 
 and helped usher in the next age of shooters with its breakthrough modem multiplayer. 
  
  The game also added at least a handful more classic monsters to the DOOM arsenal, including legendary 
 villains like Arch-Vile, Mancubus, and Revenant. Finally DOOM 2 introduced the first great icon 
 to the FPS world, the double-barrelled shotgun (often called the Super Shotgun) , an instant close-up 
 killer immortalized in multiplayer deathmatches. The diabolical level design in DOOM 2 has never 
 been equalled or exceeded. Here's a breakdown:
  
  Gameplay-
  DOOM 2 (like DOOM) proved that complex gameplay is not necessarily better gameplay. The gameplay 
 is simple, yet very immersive, and quite often very scary. It provides an adrenaline rush few games 
 can ever match. Perhaps the greatest gameplay element of DOOM 2 is the level design, which is incredibly 
 diabolical with numerous tricks and traps (thats even the name of a level) to keep a person from 
 rushing through levels with abandon. No game has ever had better collection of creative, nasty 
 villains than DOOM 2. This in addition to the carefully designed (though small by todays standards) 
 levels makes DOOM 2 quite a challenge at the higher difficulty levels. A tremendous unsettling 
 experience.
  
  Graphics-
  The Graphics for DOOM 2 were state of the art when the game was released. As expected the graphics 
 design appears primitive now, but the creative artwork isn't, its amazing. They are mild impovement 
 to the graphics of the original DOOM.
  
  Sound-
  Its hard to believe now, but the music and sounds were top-notch when the game was released in 
 1994. The music is on par with the original game, and this is a good thing, as it works with the 
 game well enough and doesn't intrude on the Atmosphere. The midi music still sounds decent enough 
 even today, though a couple tunes may become grating after awhile. Monster sounds will stick to 
 your mind like glue, even well after finishing this immersive game. The new monsters of DOOM 2 
 fall right in line with those of the original game when it comes to their offbeat and unforgettable 
 sounds.
  
  Value-
  DOOM 2 is unarguably Id's most balanced game, both the single-player and multiplayer-gameplay are 
 equally excellent, a rarity in the FPS genre. DOOM 2 introduced modem multiplayer to the PC world, 
 and the game is so popular, it was still being modded up until the release of DOOM 3, 10 years 
 later! This and the wide spread of difficulty levels, give DOOM 2 great replay value.
  
  Tilt-
  DOOM 2 was FPS giant Id Software's finest and most creative game, it is one of the most 
 balanced FPS ever, and it has some of the most unforgettable levels and monsters in a game EVER. 
 Its a genuine classic filled with encounters you will remember long after your final click, click, 
 Ka-Boom with your shotgun.
  
  Alltogether a tremendous game, the best game I have ever played to date. It remains highly playable 
 to this day.
  
  If you want a great old-school shooter with great gameplay, this is your game. Its simply the best 
 you can get (along with Duke Nukem 3D) . Look for DOOM Collectors Edition now, since this will play 
 well on Windows XP and likely costs less than 10 American dollars.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2004 12:22 am PT
Review:  AT the time of this game... it's really sets the way FPS are now. This was "The game" back then, 
 it was awesome to, i remeber doom as being one of the first and best games i've ever played when 
 i was little. This game was the best of the best and it'll always be remeber by any first person 
 shooter fan. The gameplay was great, even though there were few levels (which at that time was 
 alot of levels) it still came out to be a really good and strong game. The sound and graphics really 
 were great for the time of this realease. Id i think was at it's highest with this game, and this 
 was one of their perks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyRules
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2004 7:14 am PT
Review:  Hey, at the time, what was better? What soaked up more of your hours than this game? I can think 
 of none. Getting through the game was great but the replay value ws enormous. Games of course do 
 not take nearly as long to discover the secrets within because the guide is released when the game 
 comes out and gamefaqs answers any question you may have, but running through the boards to find 
 the secrets was a lot of fun as well. I never played the game multiplayer but with so much fun 
 just running around and eliminating your enemies, who cared? This game will most likely bore anyone 
 who to this day has not played it because the ganre has evolved so much since then but there is 
 not a game I looked forward to playing more than this title for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2004 8:12 pm PT
Review:  It always comes down to 1 thing. Do these games compare to Doom2? usually the answer is NO. I think 
 we always compare everything to the godfather of FPS. Doom2 has to be the highest rated game I 
 will ever give. I never give high ratings, but I have not found a single game that comes close 
 to the enjoyment I got for years playing Doom2. Unreal, Serious Sam, and maybe Half Life came close 
 to the enjoyment ... but even now in 2004 i still think when Doom2 has done to the gaming world 
 in unpresidented. 
  
  I give this game a 9.9 because i think this will be the reigning champ forever. YOu know what, 
 maybe a game will come one day to knock it off, but for now all these new FPS just don't come close. 
 They have great new graphics and engines ... but come on ... do you remember being alone in HELL 
 battling hundereds of monsters in a level called "Downtown"?
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
