-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/doom3resurrectionofevil/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New weapons and powers add variety to gameplay.
 Solid multiplayer additions.
 Visuals are still incredible.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Can be completed in just a few hours.
 Doesn't take huge liberties with the Doom 3 formula.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  4, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.0, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 3,344 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Nerve Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Apr 4, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If Doom 3 left you wanting more, you'll find what you're looking for in Resurrection of Evil.

  It seems like just eight months ago that Doom 3 was finally released to a rabid PC community slavering 
 with anticipation. Wait, it  was  just eight months ago. Nevertheless, id Software has collaborated 
 with longtime partner Nerve Software to bring us Doom 3's first expansion pack, Resurrection of 
 Evil. The new add-on doesn't muck with the horror-movie presentation and run-and-gun gameplay laid 
 down by the original, though it adds enough new weapons and enemies to make the expansion feel 
 like a solid companion to the original. If Doom 3 left you wanting more, you'll find what you're 
 looking for in Resurrection of Evil.  

          Something has once again gone very wrong on Mars... and you're the only marine who can fix 
 it.     

  Resurrection of Evil picks up about two years after the hellish catastrophe of the original game. 
 The Union Aerospace Corporation, in its infinite drive for profits, has established a new base 
 to continue the study of an ancient Martian civilization uncovered by the original science team. 
 During an exploratory mission, your character -- a different marine than the one you played in Doom 
 3-- unwisely picks up an evil artifact that just happens to open another portal to hell, which leads 
 to the deaths of almost everyone on the base, as well as unleashes a new wave of demons, led by 
 the demonic Dr. Betruger (who wants his toy back) . With the help of Dr. Elizabeth McNeil, who acts 
 as this game's Sarge, you'll have to blast your way through hordes of enemies as you attempt to 
 reach hell to seal the artifact there, hopefully ending the threat of invasion forever.  

  Since this is an expansion pack, Resurrection of Evil plays almost exactly like the original Doom 
 3. The game is extremely dark, requiring you to use your trusty flashlight to explore its many 
 nooks and crannies to detect enemy threats, many of which lurk unseen in the darkness. The flow 
 of the action is similar to that of Doom 3, so you'll enter a new area, clear it of enemies, and 
 look for a key item or security upgrade that will let you meet your objective and move on to the 
 next area. There's not as much storyline here as in the original, which means you won't spend as 
 much time poring over old e-mails and audio logs for clues. Furthermore, the cutscenes are sparse 
 and widely separated. So despite its similarities to Doom 3, Resurrection of Evil feels even more 
 like the sort of straightforward action game that the original Doom was.  

  Upon its release, Doom 3 boasted what was probably the most amazing graphics engine ever seen, 
 yet most of the game was set in identical-looking industrial corridors. Resurrection of Evil attempts 
 to rectify this shortcoming by placing you in a wider variety of environments. The first few levels 
 are set in an archeological dig site similar to the one glimpsed at the very end of Doom 3, which 
 adds some nice variety to the action. You'll spend the bulk of the game inside the base, though 
 most of the levels are varied enough that the scenery never gets too old. Finally, it's back to 
 hell again at the end of the game, though the designers don't get too crazy with either the waves 
 of enemies or the final encounter there. On the whole, the action is solid throughout.  

          The new weapons, enemies, and hell powers add some needed variety to the basic Doom 3 action. 
     

  Much of the entertainment value in Resurrection of Evil comes from the incremental improvements 
 made to your arsenal. You'll find the good old double-barreled shotgun a few hours into the game, 
 which can only hold two shells at once but will put a massive hole in anything you manage to hit 
 with it. Then there's the grabber, a physics weapon not unlike Half-Life 2's gravity gun. The grabber 
 is more combat-focused, though, since you won't use it to solve any serious puzzles. You can use 
 the grabber to snag enemy projectiles and fling them back, and you can make weapons out of a lot 
 of environmental objects, too (as you'd expect, exploding barrels work nicely for this) .  

  Rounding out your arsenal is the very artifact that started this whole mess. As you play through 
 the game, the artifact will grant you powers you can activate at will. At first, you'll be able 
 to slow down time for a few seconds, giving you a speed advantage over your enemies. Later on, 
 the berserk power will be added to the artifact, enabling you to punch anything to death with one 
 hit. Finally, toward the end of the game, you'll become invincible when you invoke the artifact, 
 making you a real killing machine. Using your hell powers wisely becomes important, because the 
 expansion sometimes throws a lot more enemies at you at one time than you saw in Doom 3. You'll 
 come to rely on the artifact just as much as you do your regular weapons.  

  It's a good thing you have some new toys to play with, because hell's forces have been enhanced 
 as well. The most common new enemy is the vulgar, which is like a super-imp. It hurls green plasma 
 at you and is generally faster and more vicious than its brown counterpart. Fortunately, the vulgar's 
 projectile is ripe for the grabber. There's also a tall, lumbering fellow with rocket launchers 
 for hands and a computer screen for a mouth who acts as a long-range companion to the hell knight. 
 Finally, there are the three hunters who serve as the game's bosses. Each boss comes at you a different 
 way and requires you to use a combination of your hell powers and the grabber to win.  

  Resurrection of Evil adds a capture the flag mode to Doom 3's multiplayer. The CTF here was developed 
 by ThreeWave, the same group that essentially created capture the flag in online shooters back 
 in the days of Quake (though ThreeWave founder Dave Kirsch has since moved on) . Resurrection's 
 CTF is straightforward, though the included maps are well put together and feature a lot of nice 
 touches, such as graphical cues as to base direction and even the classic ThreeWave logos for those 
 nostalgists out there. There are also a handful of new deathmatch maps set in the dig site and 
 in hell, which at least provide some new backdrops for all your fragging. Like Doom 3, single-player 
 is the focus here, although the new multiplayer offerings, which are built for eight players, are 
 quite sharp.  

          Even eight months later, the game's graphics are virtually unparalleled.     

  As an 
 expansion pack, you'd expect Resurrection of Evil to look a lot like Doom 3. And it does. That's 
 alright, though, considering Doom 3 is still one of the best-looking games around. As mentioned, 
 the expansion spends more time in the archeological sites, which we didn't get to see enough of 
 in the original. And even in the Mars base levels, the designers and artists have done a good job 
 of differentiating this add-on from the base game. The new enemies and weapons are all just as 
 realistically modeled and animated as those in Doom 3, again adding to the impressive quality of 
 the visuals. As with the graphics, the sounds are almost all lifted straight from Doom 3-- though 
 the new voice actors are good -- and the new shotty packs a serious punch. Like its forebear, this 
 expansion puts forth an exceptional audiovisual effort.  

  Resurrection of Evil does a good job of reprising the straight-ahead shooting of Doom 3, and the 
 new additions help to add a little depth to what was admittedly a pretty basic action game. The 
 expansion's not incredibly long, so a dedicated player can blow through it in eight to 10 hours. 
 However, its action is solid and entertaining throughout, without ever feeling like a chore. When 
 it comes down to it, anyone who enjoyed Doom 3 should have an equally good time playing through 
 its first expansion.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (105 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: _orestes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  First I played Doom, then Doom 2 ,then Final Doom, then Doom 3 and finally Doom 3 RoE! After beating 
 Doom 3 I still wanted more so I completed all Difficulties and played and played and played..................... and 
 cheated.......
  Until I SAW DOOM 3: RoE! Next day when I arrived at school one of my friends showed me Doom 3: RoE! 
 He didn't want to borrow me it so hitted him with a chair and he gave me it and teacher gave me 
 F-. I played it like more than 200 hours and watched the movie more than 10 times especialy the 
 part when it turns to FPS! IT RULES ME! But still it misses something and i dont know what! My 
 mother thinks that I`m turning in one of those monsters becouse I play that game 20 hours a day, and 
 play and play and play.............. and cheat......... and sleep......... and eat............. until 
 GAME OVER! But I forgot to mention that beat everyone who dares to say that Doom Sucks! All I wait 
 NOW is Doom 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmallMafia
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 was an amazing game, no one can deny that. At the time it was nothing short of revolutionary 
 and breath takingly beautiful. Doom 3 ROE then is like a tuned up version of Doom 3 - not a mod, 
 rather think of it like cars, where Doom 3 was the original; ROE is the original tuned up to crank 
 out even more power and to bring an even broader smile on your face!
  
  And boy does it broaden your smile. ROE harkens back to the good old days of Doom. Unlike Doom 
 3 this game has a completely different style of game play. While its not as filled with suspense-horror 
 like Doom 3 was, ROE is just an all out massive shooter with some amazing battles and new weapons. 
 However, don't be fooled too easily, there still is suspense and horror instilled within the game, 
 but its now more aimed at screaming yourself senseless when you lay your eyes on the new enemies 
 you're put up against, instead of walking around a pitch dark base getting scared to death by one 
 imp, or one zombie.
  
  To crank up the power ROE gives you new weapons to help you along the way. In ROE you get a double-barreled 
 shotgun, a Grabber which is a sort of gravity gun that can catch enemy fire balls, plasma balls, 
 rockets, even some enemies themselves and then hurl them far from sight, and finally you get the 
 artifact. It looks like a heart attached to a grenade with its metal pin and side guard. When you 
 used the artifact you get endowed for a limited amount of time with demonic powers that enhance 
 your strength, speed and health all making you so much more bad-ass with that double-barreled shotgun.
 
  
  The game is terribly short though and can take max 10 hours to finish, So while its not as long 
 as Doom 3 was it definitely doesn't get boring. Level designs are still just as great and are extremely 
 fun and refreshing, as you progress you even get to go back to the original UAC space station in 
 Doom 3 to re-witness the carnage.
  
  One thing that I was disappointed about is the fact that no real changes have been made to graphics. 
 There are no cool effects like motion blur, depth of view, but because Doom 3 is a great looking 
 game it doesn't make that much of a huge difference, still though would have been nice.
  
  One thing to remember before buying this game is that you have to have the full original version 
 of Doom 3 before you can play this game.
  
  All in all this expansion is just plain awesome. Where Doom 3 left action packed game play for 
 some of the most frightening scenes in life, ROE leaves fear for action. When you have the two 
 together they make up a beautiful pair in which you can change through games and through game play's 
 quickly.
  ROE is therefore then two and half million lines of script code proof that absolute power cannot 
 corrupt absolutely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorvos
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review: - Recon Zulu, this is Echo One, get me a visual status.
  - Echo One, this is Recon Zulu, we've got massive damage all over the base. This place looks like 
 hell... I've got life signs on the bio scanner, nice sharp. Echo One we've got a survivor, a marine. 
 Corporal, you hear me? You alright? Can you hear me? 
  Echo One, this is Recon Zulu, prepare for medivac.
  - Copy that. Have you located councilor Swann?
 
  - Yes sir. He's dead!
  - Roger. What about doctor Betruger?
  - He's nowhere to be found sir."......
  And then you see Betruger being the tongue of a flying 
 demon beast thing ( The Maledict ) . This is the ending of Doom 3 and it couldn't be more mysterious...
 
  
  I have to say, when I first finished Doom 3 I was very very buzzed. What happened? Did the marine 
 actually make it? Was the hell hole really sealed? What happened to Betruger? Does he and Maledict 
 converged or is he The Maledict itself? Will the devil make his appearance in the next game? Those 
 are just a few of the questions I asked myself instantly after finishing Doom 3.
  
  After finishing Doom 3 I took a three day rest and then prepared for the unexpected: Resurrection 
 of Evil. What will I found there? How will the story continue the one from Doom 3? Will there be 
 any new weapons? What will the new monsters look like? Well, no more questions. Lets find the answers!
 
  
  The story begins very well. Two years after the destruction of the main UAC base on Mars, the researchers 
 receive a strange message from Site 1. Obviously, they reinstall a new research base, led by doctor 
 Elizabeth McNeil ( a very intelligent and foxy science woman ) . So naturally, they send a team 
 of marines to investigate the area. They come across a big wall that prevents them from getting 
 the signal. The wall is blown away with explosives and the marines enter a secret chamber that 
 hides something no human was meant to find... A heart-shaped object that floats, waiting and begging 
 for someone to pick it up. One marine climbs the stairs, takes off his helmet and reveals his face 
 ( Yes, that's you, the guy who is about to face the evil once more ) . He touches the "heart" and 
 it all begins again. His mates are burned by the explosion. The cutscene introduces you to hell, 
 revealing Maledict saying that hell will break loos once more. Then you have your first glimpse 
 at your future bosses, three creatures named The Hunters. "Hunt them down! Our new wave begins!" 
 says The Maledict and you are left alone again to fight for your life and for the wealth of mankind.
 
  
  This not the same marine from Doom 3. This one looks older and a bit meaner too. His name is obviously 
 not given because that's not what's important. What's important is that this guy will go through 
 hell ( literally ) to survive and save Earth and the human kind from its worst nightmare.
  So get ready! You are about to find your answers now!
  
  Some say that RoE is not as tense 
 and as frightening as Doom 3. That is more combat based than Doom 3. Well, I don't know what to 
 say, because I had a lot of scares that made my poor heart go wild. No, the unexpected horrors 
 are still there, waiting for you in every level. However, this game is a bit more lightened. There 
 are not as many dark corners and tight sewers like in Doom 3. That's mainly because the places 
 you go through aren't dark labs and maintenance rooms. But don't be fooled however. Darkness is 
 still there, 97 %. Your flashlight is a must!
  
  Remember the heart I was talking about? That is in fact an ancient Artifact of formidable power. 
 And of course, it is a weapon. When you first wield it, you'l see there are three small, circular 
 spaces on it. Those spaces are about to be occupied with the super powers you'll inherit from the 
 Hunters. Every time you kill one, his powers will be consumed by The Artifact, allowing you to 
 use it. The first power you will receive is the Helltime. While using this, you slow down time, 
 making you enemies move incredibly slow, facilitating your gunning. You'll also need this power 
 to solve some puzzles. While using this power your movements aren't affected in any way. You move 
 normally. The second power is the Berserk. This one allows you to kill any non-boss enemy in the 
 game with only one punch or one bullet from any of your weapons. The third power is Invulnerability 
 and like you might have guessed it renders you invulnerable for a small amount of time. Every power 
 lasts for about 30 seconds. You can't choose what power to activate, so when you have collected 
 all three of them, you'l use all of them at the same time. And that my friends is extremely cool. 
 When you activate all of them, I suggest you use you fists to kill your enemies because you save 
 ammo that way and it's very cool to see them flying after one good punch. With none of this powers 
 in it, The Artifact is useless. You can use it only three times maximum, after that, being obligated 
 to recharge it with human souls. They are dead people spread throughout the game, that have a red 
 tint around them. Dead zombies won't do!
  
  Other new weapons is the classic two barrelled shotgun and the grabber. There is nothing much to 
 say about the shotgun, other that is packs a serious hole through you enemies and that is a all 
 time favourite. As for the grabber, it is a very handy weapon, used for... grabbing things. It's 
 very useful because you can either grab objects that stand in your way and throw them away or use 
 them as weapons ( especially exploding barrels ) . You can also catch enemy projectiles and send 
 them back at their owner. And the best part, you can grab small creatures and send them flying. 
 That will kill them instantly.
  
  The game introduces three new non-boss enemies, the Vulgar, the Forgotten one and the Bruiser. 
 There are very well designed and have vicious AI, just like every other demon we've been used to 
 from Doom 3. The special bosses are The Hunters: Helltime, Berserk and Invulnerability. They are 
 send by Maledict to destroy the human race on Mars and enslave Earth. The powers they have will 
 be transferred to your Artifact after they are killed. And, without any doubt, the game end boss 
 Maledict, is the best creature ever!
  
  In the end, Resurrection of Evil will answer many of your questions, but will let you asking new 
 ones. Where is the devil? Do you get to face him in Doom 4? Or was Maledict the devil? ( personally 
 I found this theory unlikely, because it's obvious Betruger made a pact with the devil to become 
 Maledict ) Was Betruger The Maledict or just a part of it? Is hell really sealed for good this 
 time? More questions waiting for answers, hopefully with Doom 4. So, if you enjoyed Doom 3, Resurrection 
 of Evil is a must! It is just like Doom 3: a masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakomel
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  Doom 3: Ressurection of Evil is more cool than the normal doom 3 because of it's enchanced graphics, better 
 and stronger weapons, even more cooler and scarier monsters that will scare your pants out! Some 
 missions here in Doom 3 Ressurection of Evil, you will go to the surface of mars and you need oxygen! Isn't 
 that freaking awsome!? The weapons here are shotgun, pistol, double barrel shotgun, rocket launcher, chaingun, tractor 
 beam, Plasma Gun, machine gun and lots more weapons to kill monsters! The other doom games are boring 
 but this game, oh men, it's much way more cooler than the average games! It is sometimes painful in 
 the eye because it's kinda puzzling to my head! Playing it alone in the dark is very, very, very, very 
 scary! The Bad things about this is that it sometimes can give nightmares to those small children 
 who are watching or playing this game.
  
  From: Drakomel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Published by Activision and developed by Nerve Software and id Software, DOOM 3: Resurrection of 
 Evil (2005) is an expansion pack released eight months after the original DOOM 3 release (2004) . 
 The good thing about this add-on is that everything that was complained about the original DOOM 
 3 is now fixed; the bad thing is that you'll want much more after finishing it.
  
  You probably already know what this First-Person Shooter is all about: shoot demons in the dark, 
 ask questions later. This isn't the type of game that the player must find cover, fire in small 
 bursts and move silently to make a backstep attack. DOOM 3 is old-school and almost ignores all 
 that stuff, and the expansion Resurrection of Evil makes that nostalgic feel even more evident.
 
  
  While DOOM 3 featured a lot of hidden enemies, creepy suspense and horror, this expansion is more 
 action-focused, and the "Resident Evil's influence" is much less present now. The additions consist 
 in 12 new levels, a few monsters and three new toys for combat.
  
  To start, let's talk about the most criticized aspect in the original DOOM 3: the levels design. 
 Most maps were very similar (and occasionally forgettable) , so the game may become a bit boring 
 after a while. Resurrection of Evil comes with several great levels, and most of them you'll have 
 a good reason to remember about it, since there're a lot of unique and interesting moments in those 
 ones. 
  
  Another great addition is the weapons: the Grabber and the Double-barreled Shotgun. The first one 
 is a gravity gun, used to interact with objects and move them around. You can also use it to catch 
 hostile projectiles, and launch then back to the opponent. The Double-barreled Shotgun is very 
 powerful, especially on closed combats. You can kill almost every enemy with just one shot.
  
  But your ultimate combat tool is the Artifact, which allows you to slow down the world while 
 you kill all the enemies. That's the only thing the Artifact does, until you get new powers after 
 beating some interesting bosses. Those powers are really useful and become necessary in some situations, 
 especially if you decide to play in a higher difficult setting. The Artifact can be recharged when 
 you approach a dead human body.
  
  The new monsters make the DOOM 3's bestiary more variety, and all of the new hellish spawns are 
 good additions, definitely enhancing the gameplay. But most enemies you'll face are recycled from 
 the original DOOM 3, although they're now more numerous than before. Also, there're less monsters 
 appearing behind the player, which makes the game more dynamic. But take care, there're still some 
 unpleasant surprises in Resurrection of Evil.
  
  Apart from everything that I said above, Nerve Software didn't stayed far from the DOOM universe: 
 you still control an unnamed and voiceless marine (not the same as before, but this one also can't 
 hold both the pistol and the flashlight at the same time) , who will fight alone against hordes 
 of demons, released after doing something wrong or really stupid. I mean, this time the portal 
 to hell was opened because the marine touched the evil Artifact, without even thinking if it was 
 a good idea. So, almost everyone in the facility is dead and the marine is the only one that can 
 stop the fuss. I don't give a **** for story, so that one worked well for me.
  
  The multiplayer still pretty modest, but there're some new deathmatch maps, as well a new mode, 
 Capture the Flag. Things would be better if Nerve Software decided to introduce a Cooperative mode, 
 but we still need to rely on unofficial mods about that.
  
  Unfortunately, Resurrection of Evil ends pretty quickly, but I still don't know if it's the game 
 length itself or if it's just me, because I loved the design of the new maps, and I just wanted 
 more of them. The new content is so great that no matter the amount of maps included, it would 
 never be enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Resurrection of Evil is 11 more levels to the original game overaly its fun not as good as doom 
 3 but not worse it jsut like doom, it worths it, the game has disabled the chainsaw, now you got 
 a ion plasma grabber , (HL2 gravity gun)
  overally its fun to grab stuff and throw at enemies or to threat a huge hellknight by a weapon 
 that you can grab his powerfull sphere and throw it back at him HEHEHEHHEHEHHEHE!
  
  the bouble shotgun will assist you since the previous was weak and heart that you have to collect 
 ammo from human dead corpses , has the ability to slow time and later on after a boss to berserk 
 and increase damage and after another one to be invurnable overally that heart aint ballanced correctly 
 eg you dont use it much because you worry abotu ammo but it always omewhere around there i think 
 its better to sue the soul cube form the previous game or to charge up as you kill monsters, about 
 enemy types there are a few new ones that are nothing more than some achnges of the previous eg 
 imp, the hunter or a funny one for the cubber or however the big fat monster with the 2 cannons 
 is called, and a new spider and lost soul and some boss hellknight, the levels are ok but not as 
 goot as the previous as for the difiuclty its a little harder, especciallyi n hell its a nightmare 
 you gonna have to use slow mo bersek and god with the heart to survive and run out of ammo, no 
 auto save eiter so its pretty hard, finnaly id like to say that the final boss SUCKS propably one 
 of the worst i v seen eg if flies around and throw hell balls at you or meteor stortm, am not convinced 
 hot to defeat him either grab the balls with the grabber and thorw them back or keep shooting ,well 
 kinda sucks, so pretty good game for an expansion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mailbox2112
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is the modern incarnation of Doom 2. Not that that's bad, it just means that you can 
 0wn demons with the uber awsome Super Shotgun. The graphics are awsome, even by today's standards.
 
  
  Gameplay: While the gameplay isn't too different, it's different enough to make this expansion 
 pack awsome. I feel like I'm playing Doom 2 everytime I play this game. And that's good, because 
 Doom 2 was my favorite Doom (Until this one) .
  
  Graphics: Same great engine. The graphics are great even by today's standards.
  
  Sound: Nothing 
 is creepier than hearing marines be slaughtered one by one by demons in 7.1 surround sound plus 
 EAX HD!
  
  Difficulty: Well, when you get swarmed by 5 demons, you'll figure this one out. It's hard... but 
 I don't think that Satan would want a marine to foil his plan for universal domination, now would 
 he?
  
  Value: Worth the $10 or $20 you can get it for. It's worth $50 in my opinion.
  
  Overall, I'll give this 10 Imps.............. out of 10 Imps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Full review and score breakdown here: http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2425,0. html
  
  Nerve Software's brought us Doom 3's first expansion pack, Resurrection of Evil. The new add-on 
 doesn't muck with the horror-movie presentation and run-and-gun gameplay laid down by the original, 
 though it adds enough new weapons and enemies to make the expansion feel like a solid companion 
 to the original. If Doom 3 left you wanting more, you'll find what you're looking for in Resurrection 
 of Evil.
  
  Resurrection of Evil picks up about two years after the original game. The Union Aerospace Corporation 
 is back on Mars and continues its study of the artifacts found on the surface. During an exploratory 
 mission, your character-a different marine than the one you played in Doom 3- picks up an evil 
 artifact that opens yet another portal to hell, which leads to the deaths of almost everyone left 
 on the base, as well as unleashes a new wave of demons, led by a resurrected Dr. Betruger (who 
 wants his toy back) . With the help of Dr. Elizabeth McNeil, who acts as this game's Sarge, you'll 
 have to blast your way through hordes of enemies as you attempt to reach hell to seal the artifact 
 there, hopefully ending the threat of invasion forever.
  
  The game plays exactly the same as Doom 3, with the flashlight being an important tool for searching 
 through levels. The levels are shorter and seem to have a much more demonic theme to them earlier 
 in the game. There's much less of a storyline here as in the original, meaning you won't spend 
 as much time looking over old e-mails and audio logs for clues. Furthermore, the cutscenes are 
 sparse and widely separated. ROE feels more the original Doom with its more straightforward gameplay.
 
  
  There are some slight upgrades to your arsenal, such as the return of the double-barreled shotgun. 
 While not as powerful as in previous Doom games, it can certainly blow its way through ranks of 
 powerful enemies. There's also the grabber, a physics weapon inspired by Half-Life 2's gravity 
 gun. The grabber is much more combat-focused, though, and you won't really use it to solve any 
 serious puzzles. You can use the grabber to snag enemy (Vulgar) projectiles and throw them back, 
 and you can make weapons out of a lot of environmental objects, too (as you'd expect, exploding 
 barrels work nicely for this) .
  
  There's also the artifact you pick up, which works differently from the soul cube in Doom 3. As 
 you play through the game, the artifact will grant you powers. The first one is a bullet time carbon 
 copy, and comes with all of its gameplay impacts. Later on, the berserk power will be added to 
 the artifact, enabling you to punch anything to death with one hit. Finally, toward the end of 
 the game, you'll become invincible when you invoke the artifact, making you a real killing machine. 
 The enemies are much more numerous, so the artifact becomes a much more commonly used weapon than 
 the soul cube ever was. Some enemies have been introduced, such as the previously mentioned Vulgar, 
 which is an upgraded version of the Imp.
  
  The game features an upgraded multiplayer mode that was developed by Threewave. The game now contains 
 Capture the Flag, and its surprisingly fun.
  
  The Doom 3 engine is preserved for the game, and so brings along its great-looking graphics. Sounds 
 are also straight from Doom 3 and the new voice actors sound great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  After the release of Doom 3, there was plenty of potential to create expansions and improve overall 
 gameplay. Resurrection of Evil builds on where Doom 3 left off, providing a conclusion to all of 
 this mess. It seems the UAC is still as shallow as ever, once again opening up new divisions to 
 gather artifacts from hell. If the moon base incident wasn't enough to cause a corporate shut down, 
 now the UAC is sending scientists and other employees back to unidentified ruin locations to do 
 their dirty work. You play a marine who is on one of these missions, whom just happens to once 
 again be attacked by the minions of hell in a botched mission. This is where your adventure begins 
 as you try to get back to a rendezvous point with your newly acquired artifact.
  
  The expansion pack adds on a small handful of new monsters and bosses. You will meet up with 3 
 mini-bosses and one main boss as you progress through the expansion pack. Some of these bosses 
 will take some defined tactics in order to best them, but are easy to find out once you learn their 
 patterns. There are also a couple of new minions added to the expansion. One of these has a design 
 almost identical to the imp, just change their projectile from red to blue. The second new baddie 
 is similar to the hell knight, but has a mounted TV on it's torso showing a goofy array of teeth. 
 The problem with the original Doom 3 monsters was how bland their textures looked, and after adding 
 more in the expansion they didn't bother to change it. It would have been nice to see something 
 besides grey skin on everything.
  
  Nerve added a couple new types of weapons to your arsenal. One of these is a rip-off of the gravity 
 gun in Half-Life 2, which shares almost all of the same functions. The second is the addition of 
 a double barreled shotgun, which is quite powerful at the cost of a long reload time. The initial 
 artifact that you pick up in the game is used throughout, providing new upgrades that are consumed 
 from defeating the mini-bosses. Some of these special powers slow down time, add haste, and eventually 
 make you invulnerable. You can recharge these powers by using your artifact on dead bodies to consume 
 their souls. Pretty much every additional weapon/power-up has been seen plenty of times in other 
 games, but slowing down time is always a plus. 
  
  So is it worth it to buy this expansion pack? Only if you want to complete your id collection and 
 finish up a half-baked story. Resurrection of Evil is more of the same, which was already an issue 
 in Doom 3. With the addition of some minor upgrades and monsters, it adds just enough to keep it 
 interesting for a few hours while soon being forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  This expansion came at the right time for Doom fans wanting more of the state-of-the-art rendition 
 of a true classic game. In fact, it came less than a year, but we didn't mind since it's so hooking.
 
  
  Salute to the double barrel shotgun, my fave weapon of the year. Yes, it's not very original, but 
 it serves the right purpose at the right time for such an intense shooter such as Doom III. Nothing 
 beats the satisfaction of a timely fatal blast from such a classic game weapon on a Revenant that 
 kicked your a** in the previous game. Also, the Grabber may be a straight copy out from Half-Life 
 2's Gravity Gun, it is still a very tactically fun weapon to use here. No complaints.
  
  The final boss tends to be extremely hard this time compared to the previous game and the lagging 
 graphics due to particles overload doesn't help either. But all in all, Resurrection of Evil is 
 a solid expansion for even non-Doom fans to try out.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Methuselah6463
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  its a great game.. NOT AS DARK.. but close to it... umm still scary like the orignal doom 3... story 
 is on point with the orignal also... basicly just a bad ass game.. and really if you liked DOOM 
 3 you will like this one also... only thing i have to say is that its short... i wish they would 
 have added more to the story.. but they didn't... it has some good boss fights... some more guys 
 in it that you saw in the first doom and doom 2 show up.. which is cool to see in this day and age... its 
 a cool game to play if you liked doom 3 really i count them as the same game.. just more to it... 
 and i hope to see MORE come out... "on a personal note the game wasn't as scary as the DOOM 3... but 
 it came pretty damn close to it. the guns are basicly the same.. but this time you got the double 
 barrel shotgun... WHICH I LOVE... gravity gun is cool... alien cube is neat... puzzles are amazing 
 and monsters espically the floating skulls are Good for fun... but can be A PAIN IN THE @#% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  RoE looks n sounds like the original Doom 3 but offers one hell of a gameplay experience.... When 
 the game began i never had much expectations from n i thought it would be no better than the original.... but 
 was i wrong or what.... the game really gets ressurected when u first start using ur new weapon-The 
 artifact, it looks like a cancerous heart with 3 tattoos on it that keeps on throbbing.... but gives 
 u unique abilities that helps a lot in progressing through the game quickly and with style.... with 
 the artifact u'll get Hell Time (slows down everybody and everything around albeit u become twice 
 faster than normal) , Quad damage (you unleash 4 times the the normal damage on ur enemies, machine 
 guns can bring down big baddies while using this) and invincibility. To top it off u get to use 
 all the three simulataneously.... the artifact uses human souks from dead bodies to recharge it 
 and since these r all around the level one can freely use the artifact... bosses again require a 
 different approach to b killed... its not always run and gun with them. U also get a grabber, works 
 like a gravity gun something like in HL2.... and a bouble barrelled shotgun that makes ur good ol 
 doom 3 shotgun feel oblivious.... The action here is quite fast paced... u'll face enemies in plenty... n 
 some situations r reminiscent of serious sam... but with the artifact things are fun and easy.... PDA's 
 are simplified in this game.... while incorporating the same sounds n visuals... RoE offers a lasting 
 experience and a proper ending to Doom 3 and to itself....
  
  This is in all ways waaayy better than the original itself... a must have for any doom 3 player... even 
 if u hated doom 3 u'll like this for sure.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell_75
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  If Doom 3 was a success then this is a step up. Not only is this a continuation of the story the 
 game has succeeded in giving us a new weapon that was unlike anything in the original. This new 
 weapon allows the player to use the enemies weapons against them. So when a demon throws a fireball 
 at you you can hold the fire ball and unleash it back at it. Brilliant. You play the role of a 
 nameless marine who has been sent to Mars to recover the lost artifact. Also as you guessed you 
 will have to confront the evil scientist who sold his soul to the devil to morph into a demon. 
 I actually wanted to rip his head off in the original but didn't get the chance to so I couldn't 
 wait to get the sequel so I could finish the devil spawn once and for all! The game has all the 
 eerieness of the the original with the dark, castrophobic environments and the creepy music to 
 add to the tension. As in the original you will have to battle against some bosses to get to the 
 devil spawn. Some bosses are challenging so you have to use your wits if you are to survive. The 
 last boss is a little difficult but with your arsenal of the BFG and rocket launcher you should 
 be able to deal with him! Once again Activision and Nerve Software have succeeded with a game that 
 retains all the thrills of the first one and adds to it. You won't be disappointed with this one! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil is a nice expansion pack to the original. Although it is roughly the 
 original with a few twists, it pack a lot of action and very little story line into about 4-6 hours 
 of gameplay. There are a lot of elements of this game that would have made the original better, 
 but fit in nicely in the expansion.
  
  In Doom 3: RoE you play (again) as a nameless marine, but not the same one from the original. You 
 follow a team of scientists into the dig site that was seen from the last few levels of the original, 
 because there are some disturbance's being monitored. Once again, the Union Aerospace Corp. decided 
 to fix things on Mars, and their approach to "improved" safety is made known everytime you watch 
 a video of new hardware. You are mostly always in touch with Dr. Elizabeth McNeil who gives you 
 orders, similar to Sarge from the first, but she isn't decitful and leading you in the wrong direction. 
 You find an artifact that looks like a hell made human heart, and after you pick it up, all hell 
 breaks loose again.
  
  The first thing you notice when playing this game is that the Doom 3 graphics engine still looks 
 fantastic. Lots of great lighting tricks and smooth textures fill the game. It is kind of shallow, 
 though, as it feels a lot like the original, despite newer locations. This game is seemingly darker 
 than the original, expecially since there is a new batter game you have to play often. By that 
 I mean there are battery operated generators lying around that power the lights and machinery, 
 and to get one set of lights and machinery going you have to take batteries from another. This 
 makes the area a whole lot darker, and creepier, since you cannot hold your gun and flashlight 
 at the same time.
  
  D3: RoE introduces a few new weapons, all of which are a very welcome addition. First is the artifact. 
 The artifact is the opposite of the artifact from the first Doom 3 as it feeds off human souls, 
 not demon souls. Thankfully, the demons have left around plenty of humans to feed off of. The artifact 
 gives you certain special abilities, which are gained after each of the boss battles. One slows 
 down time, one gives you berserk, and one makes you invincible for a short period of time. The 
 second addition in the grav, um, grabber gun. It is a weapon designed to pick light weight objects 
 up, especially useful for picking explosive barrels up and catching fireballs. Finally, my favorite 
 is the double barrelled shotgun, ala Doom 2. This weapon packs twice the punch of the shotgun, 
 but has to be reloaded every shot. Still, it is ripe for tearing up enemies. Unfortunately, this 
 game didn't feature the chainsaw, which was a downer.
  
  Sound is also very creepy in this game, but the weak sounding guns from the first Doom 3 is still 
 evident here. The PDA reading is also a lot less here, as there are fewer to read, most of them 
 are for security clearence. The gameplay is also responsive, and there are added multiplayer options, 
 such as CTF, but they are mostly underpopulated and not too much fun in the tight corridors of 
 the game. They also bumped the max players up to 8, something modders have taken care of a long 
 time ago.
  
  Doom 3: RoE is a great expansion pack to the original. In some ways, it was more fun, but a little 
 short. This game was a little easier because of the power of the new weapons, but the developers 
 tried to keep things balanced. Overall, this is a great expansion for Doom fans, but those who 
 didn't like the original won't find much here either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoz18
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil is another great game and expansion pack by I. D software. It maintains 
 the graphics and sound of the original game (Doom 3) . But this game has more weapons and a few 
 totally new things thrown in. It isnt as long as Doom 3 but it offers the same creatures from 
 Hell including new ones. This game tends to throw more enemies at you at once so all mayhem breaks 
 loose. Also in this game you can wield demonic powers through this ancient artefact that you found 
 at the beginning of the game, more stuff to kick some demon ass. This game is a good expansion 
 pack from Doom 3 in that it provides exactly what the high standards of Doom 3 set. From Graphics 
 to sound and looks fantastic! I hope now I. D software brings out an expansion pack to Quake 4. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bah-Humbug
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Resurrection of Evil is a great expansion pack to Doom 3. The action is much more hectic this time 
 around where you almost always face more then a couple of enemies at once. RoE resorts to scare 
 tactics and monster closets less and instead has more enemies telaporting which may make you feel 
 better if Doom 3 made you pee your pants.
  
  The new monsters are not much different from Doom 3. Two of them serve as partial and total replacements 
 for the Lost Souls and the Imps. The Vulgar is a tougher Imp like enemy that throws much bigger 
 green balls of energy at you. Expect to see a lot of these ugly guys while still seeing a few Imps 
 from time to time. The Lost Soul replacement harkens back to the original 2d Doom games with them 
 being flaming skulls rather then fleshy heads. There is another new enemy but I will let you find 
 out about it by yourselves. In total there are four boss battles which is quite a lot for an expansion 
 pack. Each one of them quite fun with the final battle being very memorable.
  
  RoE offers up three new weapons that fit the game well. The artifact gains new powers for the first 
 three bosses that you fight and it just happens to be fueled by human souls. Whatever negative 
 feelings you may have towards using this weapon should be forgotten since there are a good number 
 of fights (with all but one boss battle) that will require you to use this item.
  
  As the other new weapons the Double Barreled Shotgun is very sweet being cable of killing a Pinky 
 Demon or Revenant in a single shot. Lastly the Grabber is a weaker ( you can only hold on to objects 
 for a limited amount of time) version of HL2's Gravity Gun. Multiplayer also expands with CTF and 
 up to eight players on a server right out of the box.
  
  The final thing (and what is obvious from the beginning) is that there is more variety in the level 
 designs as well as there being slightly less cramped environments. If you liked Doom 3 but wished 
 that there was more action to it then RoE won't disappoint you one bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poost
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  After playing the monotonous Doom 3 campaign, the expansion breaths new life into the game and 
 provides more variety in both gameplay and scenery. You begin the expansion as a marine working 
 for the new UAC Mars expedition. Apparently they didnt learn the first time, and, again, opened 
 a portal to Hell. The story revolves around the artifact used to open up this newest hellgate. 
 You are trying to figure out what to do with it, while keeping it away from Dr. Betruger (the scientist-turned-archdemon 
 in Doom 3) . The artifact also provides the most interesting new mechanic to the game.
  
  As you proceed through the rather short story, the artifact will gain powers. At first you can 
 slow down time with it, which is very fun. Its always fun to run up in a demons face and shoot 
 it with a double barreled shotgun, especially with the slow motion blood spray. Early on, you also 
 get a gravity gun (similar to Half-life 2) which will allow you to throw explosive barrels and 
 heavy crates, as well as Imps fireballs.
  
  The PDAs in the RoE are less frequent and very rarely do they contain any audio files. The ones 
 that do are so extremely quiet that you might as well forget that they are playing. Its rather 
 unfortunate, as the audio files in the original gave a lot more depth to the world.
  
  If you really enjoyed Doom 3, I highly recommend this game. It will give Doom 3 a less sour after-taste. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton158
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  In this you are another random marine (ID worried itself to make a new skin for it :P) that went 
 back to the UAC Mars station, primarily talking the Site1 dig site where artifacts were found. 
 Being lead by Elisabeth McNeil (which has information on original Doom3 regarding her status) , 
 you are part of an expedition lead down to Mars subterran. That's what I can tell for now.
  
  Gameplay is perfect, for a Doom3 game, with few keys you perform many actions, like using it's 
 Grabber (Gravity gun) is only necessary a key, for picking-up / throwing an object. You find yourself 
 well even though you should configure the controls with your best desire. Graphics are ok, game 
 made in OpenGL, do not have a WOW!! shader system, but the darkness and shadows make up for it, 
 but be wise, I did not said it had bad shader system / engine.
  
  Sounds are right too. All weapons presented back in normal Doom3 posses the same sounds. The atmosphere 
 is scary and dark, like Doom3. In the beginning you will learn some basics as useing the Grabber 
 and, that's that.
  
  For a reviewer's tilt , I can say you will really gonna get clued in your pc for a good time. It 
 is immersive, of course, and there are few bugs in this game aswell. A great game. Now on Steam 
 juts for letting you know, you can have the first Doom3 and this one for 25 bucks so that's why 
 I valued it 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  An expansion pack that brings the greatest qualities that were found in D3 to new levels, this 
 expansion pack is simply more fun. If you loved Doom 3, you will love the expansion pack even more. 
 If you didn't care for Doom 3, you will start to care about it with the expansion pack.
  
  Think of the expansion pack as a booster pack. It simply makes the game better any way you put 
 it. Bringing flashy new weapons (my favorite, the coach shotgun) , new levels, and new story. You 
 just cannot go wrong with this expansion pack.
  
  Can be purchased for $10-15, it makes the new experience well worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was a decent remake of the original game, though admittedly I liked the original game much 
 more. Originally I never planned on bothering with the expansion after what I heard about it, but 
 I decided that it couldn't hurt. In the end I wish I had avoided it.
  
  Resurrection of Evil is set after Doom 3, the UAC wishes to restore the Mars base and you are the 
 part of a Marine detachment sent with a team of scientists to start the restoration. When you and 
 your team locate an artifact, all Hell breaks loose (literally) again, and you're forced to slog 
 your way through another demonic invasion. There's not really a story to this expansion, it seemed 
 to me like a poor attempt to place a bigger emphasis on fast paced action like the installments 
 prior to Doom 3. Resurrection of Evil plays exactly like Doom 3 with a couple new guns and monsters. 
 The most notable of the new weapons is the classic Combat Shotgun from Doom 2, the grabber which 
 allows you to capture enemy projectiles and launch them back, and the Heart of Hell artifact. The 
 Heart of Hell artifact is supposed to be Hell's answer to the Soul Cube, but it struck my as fairly 
 useless since all it really did was slow down time for a brief period. You'd think that there would 
 be more to it considering Hell's obsession with getting it back. The new monsters are not really 
 anything special, they feel more like reskins of monsters from the original Doom 3.
  
  Graphically Doom 3 is the same, not that this is a problem. Doom 3 wasn't a bad game to look at... 
 it was just dark. Audio wise there's some new voice acting for the occasional radio chatter, but 
 that's about it.
  
  Resurrection of Evil strikes me as pointless. There's no new story to speak of, and considering 
 the gameplay is exactly the same (which is to be expected anyway) with a couple new weapons and 
 monsters, I feel that this is not an expansion worth getting your hands on. Like F. E. A. R. Extraction 
 Point, it's more of the same with less substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nzilla
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Yes, Doom 3 has spawned more evil. Yet, strangely enough this evil doesn't feel quite as evil as 
 the first evil. RoE seems more like an action FPS shooter than a BOO! surprise horror fest. Maybe 
 its the new weapons? The double barreled shot gun will take the fear out of anyone and put it 
 into that ugly thing over there thats snarling at you. You want some of this? I didnt think so. 
 Oh, and the introduction of the grabber. A seeming companion for the Half-life 2 gravity gun. I 
 wonder if theyll get married and have little babies? Anyway the ability to take your enemies projectiles 
 and turn them back on them is just sweet, sweet vengeance. Youll want to do it over and over and 
 over, especially because its a big ammo saver.
  One of the biggest new additions to the game is the mysterious hell artifact. Looks like a heart 
 that needs a transplant patient. Youre just going to borrow it for a little while. In return, 
 the happy hell heart grants you amazing hell powers that you acquire through the game. Super speed, 
 the ability to pummel a hell knight to death with one punch, oh, and invincibility. Not bad for 
 a day in hell.
  Sadly, the only thing about this game that I did not enjoy was the length. It seemed after you 
 fought your way through all that and finally get to mess with Dr. Betruger (havent you just been 
 dying to do that since you first saw him?) the game ends far too quickly, leaving you hungry for 
 more, and another play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haydar21101990
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  i had an amazing experience with the original Doom 3 as a fantastic First Person shooter on PC 
 , Scary with a lot of action ,the first expansion released Resurrection of Evil and this is how 
 i think . . .
  
  IMPORTANT THING -you have the full version of original doom 3 so you can play this expansion and 
 if doom 3 work propely on your PC so no problem with the Resurrection of Evil.
  
  Gameplay
  
  -there is no huge different between tthis expansion and th original . . . same 
 gameplay just new mission and new places.
  
  Graphics
  
  -its really good like the original Doom 3 . . .
  
  Weapons &amp; zombies
  
  -I play a little 
 bit in tis game and there is only one new weapon its the gravity gun same to the gravity weapon 
 in half life 2 . . . and there is new version of zombies in ROE . . . IF YOU LIKED DOOM3 &amp; 
 YOU WANT MORE , BUY Resurrection of Evil
  
  8.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BearWonderer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Wanting more Hell? Nightmare is not Enough? Then Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil (Expansion Pack) is 
 your finding for. Why?
  
  Doom 3 Resurrection of Evil Expansion Pack Has:
  
  NEW WEAPONS
  Blasting enemies is not enough, need more power!
  
  NEW FRESH ENEMIES
  Bored 
 on same old enemies. New Fresh faces will want you to kill more!
  
  UNEXPLAINABLE ADVENTURE
  New Journey, New Start, The End Begins!
  
  OVER ALL: DON'T MISS THIS 
 RIDE TO HELL!
  When you want the new Doom 3 game, this is only the teaser. I'm just hoping that the ID SOFTWARE 
 creates a new Doom game that make the series even more dominating like the first doom game did. In 
 case you are wondering to play this game, try it, don't you hesitate in playing or buying this game 
 unless you don't have the original Doom 3 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reino6
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  There is not much to say. If you liked the Doom3 then you have to play this as well. The story 
 continiues. Now you can use extras what offered HL2 &amp; F. E. A. R. The grabber/gravity gun lets 
 you throw objects and toss back enemy fire balls etc. And new weapon artifact lets you use Hell 
 time, where you can slow down time. But it also later in the game gives you extra addition like 
 berserk &amp; invulnerability. Some new horrible monsters in the game also. The graphics are at 
 times even better than in Doom3 cause of the fog is more used in game. Or i don`t know? Great game.
 
  
  Doom3: ROE completes the Doom3. Hard to say if it is the last one in Doom series :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kisakata
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  For most people, and for id as well, the whole deal about DOOM3 is to create a scary atmosphere 
 or a scary moment you will remember in your gaming life. The coolest part of Doom 3: Resurrection 
 of Evil if probably toward the very last part of Delta Labs - Unknown. Nerve Software did a very 
 cool job in special effects where on second is dark and the next second hell takes over and the 
 whole area turns hellish red. They also have skeletons show up during the hell moments and then 
 disappear when it turns dark which is a great touch. But the coolest of them all is the way the 
 camera fades backwards (like in a dream) which makes it extremely scrary to move forward. That 
 is one of the great moments in gaming. After I finished the game, I just want to go over the Delta 
 Labs before going to the HELL level. The only bad thing I would say is it is just too hard to play 
 the game when you hit the Hell level. I am not the best FPS guy but not too shabby either. However, 
 I had to cheat and use GOD mode when traveling in HELL and to finish the game. Anyway, I rate this 
 8.8 which means it is a GREAT add on pak and I recommend to play it. You will share some scary 
 moments! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToddHagen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  With on-par graphics with Doom 3, and most of the graphic assets rehashed, ROE is just an extension 
 of the original Doom 3.
  
  I played this expansion directly after finishing Doom 3 and I noticed that a lot of the graphics 
 assets (rooms, etc.) were just replicated and reassembled to make the new game. I got a lot of 
 I've been here before deja vu.
  
  Still, it was interesting and fun, but still way too dark for my tastes. Enough was new and different 
 to still make this an enjoyable experience. I felt that the expansion was fun - as long as you 
 didn't expect a radical departure from the formula.
  
  I felt that the ending was good, though relatively unrealistic. The defeat of the end boss is quite 
 satisfying and seems to be well conceived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was a lesson in endurance. All the same surroundings, constant enemies being thrown at you 
 and a long experience.
  
  This expansion pack is more of the same and while it certainly delivers more of what made Doom 
 3 so good, there's something about the experience that's just lacking. Whether it's because it 
 just feels like a rushed product to capitalise on the success or whether its because I just want 
 something a bit more thoughtful from my games, who can say.
  
  The Half-Life 2 thieving gravity gun is fairly well implemented, but it can't pick up everything 
 so you don't have the same intutive use that HL2's did. Things that you'd expect it to be able 
 to deal with - ie. rockets - it can't, and I thought that was fairly lazy on the part of the developers 
 when compared with it's inspiration.
  
  Also, I just thought it was too hard. Sure, you're going up against Hell itself so it should be, 
 but towards the end of the game - from Delta Labs to the end - the amount of health packs drops 
 dramatically, as does ammo, and you're going to need them. I spent the last hour on less than quarter 
 health with no armor, and plenty of reloading saves, which just takes you out of the game experience.
 
  
  Basically, if you enjoyed Doom 3 - as I did - then it's worth getting, but it's not the greatest 
 FPS you could find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Before Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil, the best expansion to any FPS i'd ever seen was Half-life: 
 Opposing Force. Since then, there has not been a single amazing expansion. But Doom 3: Resurrection 
 of evil, has enough in it to satisfy your Doom hunger once and for all..... until Doom 4. Like most 
 expansions, Resurrection of Evil doesn't add a whole new game, but about 1/3 of new content. Around 
 3 new weapons, new enemies, lovable characters with actual minds, new maps, and a whole new story 
 of Doom. Story is a big thing though. Doom 3 had a very little story though it was a long game. 
 Resurrection of Evil actually carries with it a good story about you, a marine, your scientist 
 friends, and a mission to stop a group of hell guardians/ gods/ warriors. The graphics haven't 
 improved too much. There is quite a bit of detail on the Hell guardians though. Nothing else has 
 really changed. Just new enemies, maps, weapons, and characters. The voice acting has kind of gone 
 down the tube again. The game is overall a very tough challenge. It is an expansion that would 
 last a full game first time around because of its difficulty. But Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil 
 strikes you enough to quench all hungers and thirsts for more hell and blood out of Doom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riggs8595
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  this game is cool, but i think it is very similar to doom 3. its just like doom 3 but newer weapons, 
 new bosses, new monsters, and zombies. it spent me over a year and a month to beat this game i 
 think. this game is like non-stop it makes you think, because the levels are real looooooooong. 
 this game is hard though, real, real, real, hard, espically when your in hell, when theres just 
 monsters everywhere. so if you want this game you going to have to be patient and dont get pist 
 off at it. oh yeah heres a tip in the game, when there zombies or monsters right next to explosives, 
 dont hang around right there ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  There really isn't much to say about this expansion that hasn't been said before. Doom 3: Resurrection 
 of Evil plays exactly like the original Doom 3 before it and if you enjoyed that game, there is 
 no reason that you shouldn't pick this up. The story goes something like this. You are a Marine 
 sent back to Mars to investigate something. Well, you end up opening the gates to Hell. Whoops! 
 I could be a little off on the story because it was exactly like the last game so I didn't pay 
 a large amount of attention to it.
  
  The gameplay is exactly like Doom 3. You still can't have your flashlight and gun out at the same 
 time, which is absolutely ridiculous. I mean seriously, you're hundreds of years in the future, 
 you've landed on Mars and set up environments capable of housing human life, but you can't tape 
 a flashlight to your gun? Honestly, this is a very stupid aspect of the gameplay, but it makes 
 it much more intense. Every time you open up a new door and all you see is darkness, you will be 
 forced to put away your gun and venture into that area unaware of what could be lurking behind 
 every corner in the shadows. So really this idea of a gun with no flashlight is a stupid one, but 
 a brilliant one as well because this game wouldn't be nearly as intense as it would be with both 
 out at the same time.
  
  The graphics are just as gorgeous as they were back when Doom 3 was released. Even in the wake 
 of the Xbox 360 pumping out great graphics and the PS3 on the horizon, this game just blows me 
 away. It looks dark, gritty, disgusting, and sickening, but in a good way. Sometimes you'll walk 
 into a room and see piles of dead bodies, all covered in blood from head to toe, some hanging from 
 the ceiling, some arched over a counter, and others missing body parts. It looks disturbing but 
 beautiful at the same time.
  
  The sound is, guess what? Completely unchanged from the other game! Gasp! The guns sound just like 
 Doom 3. The voice acting is different obviously, but it's just as good, or as bad depending on 
 how you look at it, as the original Doom 3. Everything's the same.
  
  I've kept this review short, or at least shorter than most of my other reviews, simply because 
 if you are playing this game, than it's most likely a fact that you have played Doom 3 and you 
 know what you are signing up for when you start this expansion. It still looks gorgeous, the guns 
 sound the same, the creepy whispers and clanks you'll hear throughout are still frightening, and 
 the gameplay is unchanged. I honestly can't think of one different thing in the expansion that 
 wasn't in Doom 3. I don't see why there should be any reason that if you've played Doom 3, you 
 wouldn't like this game. Just keep in mind that if you are playing this game directly after finishing 
 Doom 3, you may be a bit disappointed because it will probably get stale. If you give it time, 
 Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil should fit the bill nicely if you're craving that classic Doom FPS 
 feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkimbler
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Bought this after finishing the original Doom 3. This one was not quite as long as the original 
 but I had a good time playing it. Not too many complaints. I think I would have rated it higher 
 had I played it when it was released. I think the graphics are viewed as mediocre compared to games 
 out today.
  
  I thought the story was a little weak. Especially the end cut scene. I mean this is the end of 
 Doom 3 and that was the best they could do? Seemed like they did not put a great deal of time or 
 thought into it.
  
  Still highly recommened as a good FPS. I like it's not overly complicated and you can complete 
 it with time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  This one will be short and quick:
  
  You're back on Mars, only this time you are a different marine looking to finish the job right 
 in saving Earth and getting rid of Dr. Betruger.
  
  Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil offers pretty much the same experience, except that are certain new 
 additions to the original such as weapons like the double-barreled shotgun & the grabber. 
  
  Might I also add that there are also new good gameplay enhancements with the addition of "Hell 
 Time", which is the ability to slow your surroundings down (enemies.. etc.. quite similar to Max 
 Payne's 'bullet time') while you still can move/shoot at a normal pace. This is a great new dimension 
 which makes RoE worthy. Resurrection of Evil also offers new enemies to be found, like zombies 
 or the super quick 'Vulgars' while also giving a new multiplayer game mode: Capture the Flag.
 
  
  Unfortunately, all of these additions still add nothing too revolutionary to Doom 3. Weapons such 
 as the double-barreled shotgun or new enemies like the 'Vulgar' feel like a simple redesigning/repackaging 
 of content found in Doom 3. For example, this creature, the Vulgar', is just another imp high on 
 steroids (it's super enhanced) . The double barreled shotgun is a shotgun times 2. They just took 
 a shotgun and glued another one to it, though this should add a smile to past Doom 3 fans with 
 it's nostalgia from another Doom game.
  
  Resurrection of Evil also suffers from the same thing Doom 3 suffered from: Repetitive gameplay. 
 It's still a walk/run/shoot while retaining worthy gameplay methods from the original (i. e, getting 
 a helpful walk through a enemy-infested path by these machine-gun armed UAC bots) . There's still 
 nothing too fancy in this game. It's simple and straightforward. 
  
  Oh... and if you're wondering how good the new multiplayer addition of CTF worked, don't bother. 
 I have so far seen nobody ever play CTF, not one server. So don't ask me how it is. Doom 3 is solely 
 known for the single-player content with not so much of multiplayer fun anyhow.
  
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Resurrection of Evil should feed some of the hunger which was caused by stuff 
 sorely lacking in original game. Too bad none of these additions gave anything too revolutionary 
 to Doom 3. 
  
  I feel that the 'new-found' items here in Resurrection of Evil SHOULD have been added to Doom 3 
 in the first place. There would have been no need for an expansion pack. Still, this game is quite 
 solid on the single-player front. Play the single-player and add it to your list of played Doom 
 games. The fans of Doom should be pleased with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 ROE is a great expansion to Doom 3 because of the new weapons and enemies.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Gameplay is a lot better then D3 because of the new gravity gun.
  +Nice new enemies.
 
  +Great new bosses.
  +New environments
  +New online CTF
  -Still only straightforward and repetitive indoor environments.
  
  Graphics:
  +Great looking 
 graphics.
  +Looks great even on a low end computer.
  +Runs fine with auto detect.
  
  Sounds:
  +Double barreled shotgun sounds awesome
  +New enemy: Vulgar sounds cool (better then 
 imp) .
  -No new music added, or environment sounds.
  
  Value:
  +Nice new online CTF and better player limit
  +New weapons and enemies.
  -Very short campaign
 
  
  Tilt:
  +Great presentation
  +New cutscenes and intro movies.
  -Not really that popular when it came out
  
  D3: ROE 
  Cya all.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 21, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, gfx stay the same from the original D3, sfx change a little with the new weps, and baddies. 
 Music is still pretty decent. The maps towards the end are reused with different lighting effects. 
 But the challenge level has increased a ton.. if you thought Doom 3 was hard near the end.. you 
 have yet to see anything yet.. I felt like I was on a save/loadathon.. the review says it takes 
 10hrs.. umm make that near 20+ if you are creeping through the game conserv ing every available 
 piece of ammo and armor/health. This expansion is not for the newbie FPSer.. but for the hard boiled 
 one. At normal the game is as hard as an FPS can be. I don't remember Doom 1 or 2 being this hard... 
 of course I say that now being that I have not replayed those two games for years. Overall a great 
 expansion that packs a ton of enemies into small sometimes large spaces. :) Also the boss is more 
 challenging than the doom 3 end boss, so save your ammo!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta01138
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3: ROE is another great part to the Doom series. This game should be bought if you have the 
 original Doom 3 since it continues the story. You fight 6 new demons in this game like Vulgars 
 and Bruisers. The game also has new weapons like the Artifact which can slow down time, make you 
 stronger and faster, and invincible. Another new weapon is the Grabber which is like the gravity 
 gun in Half-Life. You can grab enemy fireballs, barrels, crates and pretty much every object that 
 you can chuck at something. The last and best new weapon is the Double Barreled Shotgun, which 
 you find in Sarge's office. It is what the name says, it is a shotgun that has two barrels, due 
 to this, it is very strong and can kill a Revenant or a Cacodemon in one blast. I say that it is 
 the best because we haven't seen the DBS since Doom 2. Another good aspect is the number of enemies 
 you fight. Instead of about 4-5 in a room there can be about 5-6 in a room and you need to use 
 your artifact and new weapons to beat them down (if only politics were that easy) . The game is 
 a little disappointing due to its shortness. The game is about 5-6 hours long depending on what 
 difficulty you play it on. Overall, Doom: ROE is a very fun FPS that everyone will love a lot.
 
  
  Your fellow gamer,
  delta 01138 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  I played classic DOOM for years, when the first shareware was released. When DOOM 2 came out, that 
 was even more exciting. DOOM 3 has a different style of gameplay. But still this is the master 
 of all sci-fi shooters to really spook a hardened first person shooter fan, as myself. Supernatural 
 spooks are the hardest to get over in a game. Because you sometimes feel there is no control over 
 them. And being the a lone marine, walking or running though a dark and unstable marine base on 
 a hazardess planet surface can make it even more tense. Allthough, some of my favorite spooks from 
 the odler game didnt come back really the way I wanted. Such as the pinky. I liked the more fleshy 
 warewolf like version, with the big sharp toothed mouth and spooky glowing eyes. I would have liked 
 to see the DOOM 3 version of that. But it was changed big time. Though, the new one still is pretty 
 freaky. Reminds me more of a rabid, angry, hungry lion. Demonic lion.
  
  Graphics are definatly a 10.0, Sound 10.0, no doubt about it. This is a great physiological thriller, 
 in a horror setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 27, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The Good : All new story , weapons , enemies , places , enviroments , characters , but still the 
 same gameplay walk & shoot . So lets start with the story , it goes back to Mars ( in the underground 
 were you fought the monster ) were you reopen the gate to HELL ( you have to continue from now 
 on ) . Added a new weapon with a mod of catching then throwing ( it is cool when you catch the 
 enemy's fireballs ) . New monsters with stronger firing & attacking techniques that make you think 
 twice before moving . All new places but yet you still get to walk around old locations ( Dalta 
 Labs , The Underground , Hell , etc.. ) & you get to fight the Flying Beast with the old's man 
 head inside it . A whole new team of characters . The graphics are the same & the sound well if 
 you upgraded your first to 1.3 then it is good . 
  
  The Bad : Not as scary as the earlier one , & most of the time you just walk & shoot , the same 
 old monsters make you feel that you had been there & done that , the story line is too short ( 
 I finished it in 3 or 5 hours ) , it aint impressive as Doom 3 , but yet it still playable ( dont 
 you want to know what will happen !!! ) so you have to play it . 
  
  I think that you should buy this game if you liked Doom 3 , but dont count on it in making you 
 feel the same way as you felt in Doom 3 . So if you like Sci-Fi FPS games & you liked Doom 3 , 
 then you will also like this game , or atleast will play it with your head up . You are just plain 
 fun . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentnet
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 8, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Like its predecessor, Doom 3, Resurrection of Evil is essentially all hype. The graphics are impressive 
 - dynamic lighting and textures making this game realistic and bloody, the sound is amazing - honed 
 to frighten any cautious player, but the substance is lacking.
  The storyline does not really hold much meaning, essentially just consists of you, the player, 
 out to destroy, once again, an army of demons spawned from hell, who appear in dark corridors that 
 are all out of electricity, for some inexplicable reason. Graphics are impressive, but the setting 
 is very mundane. It's basically the same length of tubes and mechanics lining the corridors, repeated, 
 sometimes rotated. What I wouldn't give for a piece of drywall.
  Doom 3 certainly gave a frightening experience, especially if you're one of those gamers who play 
 at midnight, with 5.1 surround sound and 1600 x 1200 resolution, all graphic settings maxed, but 
 it also gives normal gamers a scare for their money. Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil continues this, 
 with, as the title suggests, resurrected evil. New demons, more blood, no drywall and spontaneous 
 combustion.
  I give the game high grades on presentation, but there really is no substance except for point 
 and shoot, and occasionally the grenade, but mostly shooting. You can skip all the dialogue, and 
 have no problems completing the game. I'd recommend this game to those looking to scare themselves 
 alone in the dark, but for a memorable gaming experience, shy away from Doom 3: Resurrection of 
 Evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titomag
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Other people liked Doom 3, and others where really dissapointed. Either way, the expansion does 
 not bring anything to change that. What can you expect in Doom 3 : Resurrection of Evil? nothing 
 much, just 12 levels of the same enviroments that i was bored of, to me... this game wasnt scary 
 at all. The original was more scary. All though this one was a bit more challenging, and has some 
 neat boss fights. Only new weapons you get is the double barrel shotgun.... nothing special really, 
 and a gravity gun (yes imitation of Half Life 2) And an artifact that grants you powers once you 
 beat the 3 bosses. There is also two new enemies..... the Vulgar, creepy little things wich can 
 become annoying yet grant challenge to the game, and a big hell knight creature with robot parts 
 wich shoots missles at you. The story aint much either, you go back to mars 2 years later too find 
 an artifact wich unlocks hells gate once again... this time, you fight Dr. Betruger in the end. 
 The ending is pretty lame also, and the outcome of the boss fight is rather funny. Multiplayer 
 just adds Capture the Flag mode and new maps. In conclusion, lets say its the same Doom 3..... but 
 remixed
  
  Graphics:
  
  + Impressive Graphics and high quality effects, great for benchmarking..
  +/-has the advantage 
 to play even on lower end graphic cards, sorroundings become repetetive.
  
  Sound:
  
  + sound quality is clear and creepy.
  +/- not much music in the game but it's a good idea since 
 the ambience sounds will creep you out .
  -some weapons sounds are crappy, shotgun and pistol dont sound right
  
  Game Play:
  
  - 
 Will get boring fast, not much to play over again once you had beat it.
  +/- MP isn't as good as it should have been, has support for the mod comunity... even tho most of 
 the custom made mods are junk.
  + New capture the Flag mode and maps
  +new enemies tat make the game harder, 2 new weapons and an artifact that grants you awsome powers... like 
 slow mo, invulerabilty, and stop time.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  -not much to do with this games once you beat it, you can only unlock the nightmare difficulty 
 wich is not even fun to play.
  + MP has plenty of servers and to this day people still playing this game over MP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig_J
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 6, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  I played Doom 3 and thought it was great so when I heard there was an expansion pack coming out 
 I jumped at the chance to buy it. What a rip off its just Doom 3 with some extra powers (Boring 
 slo-mo) and new monsters. Doom 3 was good but this IS basically the same game. The great graphics, 
 good scares and cool bosses are the only thing that redeem this game. If game developers are going 
 to make an expansion pack then they should at least try something different rather than add in 
 half-baked slo-mo. Other than that it is still a pretty good game and the new monsters are cool (although 
 they do look suspiciously like reskins of existing ones) . Its a good job the gameplay is still 
 good or I would have got rid of this game long ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  This game is abut as good as the regular Doom3 and just as entertaining.
  The new monsters and weapons go so good to the Doom games. There are new varieties of weapons such 
 as the Double-Barreled Shotgun, Artifact, and The Grabber are just unique looking and go good to 
 the Doom series. There are new monsters as well like there is another relative to the Imp which 
 is a new monster, and the Bruiser which closely related to the Hellknight. There are awesome looking 
 and challenging bosses such as the the Hell Hunters1, 2, 3 and the Maledict. The Hell Hunters are 
 basically like Hellknights only tougher and look like they had a mass overdose of steroids! The 
 Maledict you will notice when at the end of the Doom3 original where theres this dragon-like creature 
 and Dr. Betruger in the inside of its mouth and is apparently the last boss. The new Grabber weapon 
 I like because it can hold on to objects and throw it at the enemy, yes, you can reverse the imps 
 fireball and the new Forgotten Ones (The new version of the Lost Soul) you can just fire the Grabber 
 at them and the be sucked right into the gun and when you release it it dies but that only works 
 on the Forgotten Ones. I also like the Double-Barreled Shotgun because it has quite a bit of power 
 into it but the only bad thing about it is you have to reload after every shot which gives the 
 enemy only 1 sec to attack which isnt bad! After all great game! Im looking forward if there is gonna 
 be a Doom4! Again when I get games that I like I play them usually for a long time and I usually 
 never get sick of them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 2, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Its just more of the same old sh*t: The game takes place about two years after Doom 3 and the 
 UAC has reopened his bases on Mars. Your with a team that has been sent to investagate a strange 
 beckon that is deep whithin the underground of Mars. The siginal it turns out is coming from an 
 artifact and guess what, your Marine is the stupidest of all of them and decides it would be a 
 good idea to touch it, reopening the portal to Hell. 
  
  The game takes around 8-10 hours to complete depending on your speed and yes, it looks suprisingly 
 good. I may look slightly better than Doom 3 in some places but for the most part it's un-noticable. 
 The weapons still sound just as underpowered as in the last game, but there are a few new weapons 
 at your disposal. The artifact, that has reopened the portal to hell (as the game progresses it 
 will gain more abilites) , and a double barreled shot gun as well as well as a grabber which will 
 allow you to grab things like fireballs from imps and shoot them back at your enemies. 
  
  Overall this game is just like it's predecessor Doom 3, except the most frequently seen enemy, 
 (imps) are now replaced by vulgurs, who are like super imps, they have more health and do more 
 damage but with your new weapons they aren't that much of a challenge. 
  
  The level designes are once again very repetitive and the game has few memorable moments except 
 for of course the last two or so levels. If you played and liked the original Doom I would recomend 
 picking up Resurrection of Evil, but if not, it's not worth your time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 18, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This is still a cool Doom 3 I mean they did a great jopb bringing back the trustry double-barrel 
 shotgun and the cool gravity-gun (grabber) is much much cooler sure it might not be as fun as wailing 
 things around like you could in half-life 2 but at least it saves ammunition you know this is game 
 is still awesome I mean I put some Guns 'n' Roses on and these games are just blasts it's brilliant 
 because Guns 'n' Roses is one of the many greatest rock bands ever as well like I said with Doom 
 3 get this game don't care what you say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oshgoshgonya
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I'm back with my review of Doom 3 Ressurection of Evil. D3 REO is the expansion pack to the revoultionary 
 Doom 3. It's gameplay is basically the same, a few new weapons and some new enemies. This game 
 takes place some time after the first when a beacon on mars is detected and more marines are sent 
 to investigate. The silent marine (you) are with your squad when you find a hidden room, now you 
 wonder around and find a strange heart thing beating you touch it and it sends a shockwave thats 
 kills the rest of your squad and leaves you flying solo. This games not as long but it lives up 
 to it's title and it's prequal. It has all the good graphics and old school feel to it. The mission 
 is to take the artifact back to hell and seal it there. Also to close the portal forever. Some 
 plusses, online play, cheats galore and fun. This game is definately worth the trip to the store. 
 
  
  
  As good as an expansion pack should be. Conserve ammo dont be wreckless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4ya
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is abut as good as the regular Doom3 and just as entertaining.
  The new monsters and weapons go so good to the Doom games. There are new varieties of weapons such 
 as the Double-Barreled Shotgun, Artifact, and The Grabber are just unique looking and go good to 
 the Doom series. There are new monsters as well like there is another relative to the Imp which 
 is a new monster, and the Bruiser which closely related to the Hellknight. There are awesome looking 
 and challenging bosses such as the the Hell Hunters1, 2, 3 and the Maledict. The Hell Hunters are 
 basically like Hellknights only tougher and look like they had a mass overdose of steroids! The 
 Maledict you will notice when at the end of the Doom3 original where theres this dragon-like creature 
 and Dr. Betruger in the inside of its mouth and is apparently the last boss. The new Grabber weapon 
 I like because it can hold on to objects and throw it at the enemy, yes, you can reverse the imps 
 fireball and the new Forgotten Ones (The new version of the Lost Soul) you can just fire the Grabber 
 at them and the be sucked right into the gun and when you release it it dies but that only works 
 on the Forgotten Ones. I also like the Double-Barreled Shotgun because it has quite a bit of power 
 into it but the only bad thing about it is you have to reload after every shot which gives the 
 enemy only 1 sec to attack which isnt bad! After all great game! Im looking forward if there is gonna 
 be a Doom4! Again when I get games that I like I play them usually for a long time and I usually 
 never get sick of them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Current operation system tested on:
  Intel Pentium 4 2.22 ghz
  640 Mb of ram
  ATI Radeon 9250
  
  
  
  Resurrection of Evil picks off right where Doom 3 left off. Picking 
 up into the action much faster than Doom 3, Ressurection of Evil brings you into the killing rather 
 quickly. Ressurection of evil doesn't do too much different besides completing the Doom 3 experience 
 a little more. The highlights of this game include a few new weapons and a ctf based multiplayer.
 
  But the question remains is Doom 3 Ressurection enough of an expansion to buy. I'd suggest if 
 you really love Doom (such as myself) , and you are willing you shell out a 20 for this game, its 
 worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was a huge success on both the PC and the Xbox. Both versions showed a terrifying experience 
 that sent chills through people's spine. Now, sometime later, id Software and Nerve are re-visiting 
 the set of Doom for another adventure: Resurrection of Evil.
  
  The game is set two years after the first game. Research of Mars has been re-started and is being 
 headed by the surviving member of the original game's science team, Dr. McNeil, who's bent on finding 
 proof of ancient civilizations on Mars. After digging for quite a while, an artifact is found. 
 You, a nameless space marine (OK, nameless spare marine, the second) happens to touch the strange-shaped 
 object, and with it, all Hell breaks loose again. Everyone around you is dead, except for you. 
 Now it's your job to seal up the new heck-portal and return the heart-shaped artifact to its owner, 
 Satan!
  
  The game plays out just like the original, including graphical features, sound and music. There 
 are a few new monsters (like an improved imp) and the levels take place in more rustic environments 
 than your average industrial complex like the game before it. There are a few new catches to the 
 gameplay that involve the artifact. It can absorb dead people's souls and charge up: once that's 
 done, your can use special powers that are awarded through the game's boss battles. These involve 
 bullet time effects, speed and even invulnerability.
  
  Another feature the game has is the inclusing of two new weapons: the fan favorite double-barreled 
 shotgun, a gun that kills anything close by instantaneously and the Grabber, a kind of rip-off 
 from Half-Life 2's Gravity Gun. With it, you can grab enemies' fireballs in mid air and toss them 
 back to its owner. It's quite devastating, but against multiple enemies, it can become hazardous.
 
  
  Speaking of a Xbox translation of the game, the port has been really well done and almost nothing 
 has been lost. The game plays beautifully and some might think why id Software didn't do the same 
 thing with Quake IV, since both games have almost the same system requirements. Oh well, we can 
 only hope.
  
  Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil is a solid stand-alone game that is best played in sequence with the 
 original. Its length is shorter but the experience is just as good.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf2expert
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  this game is the same exact thing as doom three but there are more monsters more PDA's and last 
 but not least more metalic indoor dark corridors. This game is basically a corridor crawl to the 
 end. The really isnt much more to say if you've played Doom three you know exactly what your getting 
 into. This expantion is also reallt short compared to the original. A sweet new thing about it though 
 is the new gravity gun thing it is a nasty little bugger to find but if you find it it is a great 
 weapont to fight some of the long range foes. If you ask me the money spent is well worth this 
 short game because if you were a fan of the the original this is the same but a little more added 
 to it. So go buy it if you liked Doom three. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Well Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil is a alright expansion pack and the graphics are just as beautiful 
 as it's big brother. The game has a couple of new weapons, the double barrel shotgun and the zero 
 point energy gun (gravity gun) which was totally a rip off of Half Life 2. The levels are pretty 
 well done, but the enemies are just as big of dolts as Doom 3. It is a very short expansion pack 
 only lasting about 6 hours max. The terrible AI in the game does not help with the shortness either.
 
  
  The multiplayer in the game is just as boring as Doom 3 and the new content there is not worth 
 the purchase, and not mentioning much more past that.
  
  Over all Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil is not worth paying your hard earned cash for and I really 
 can't recommend this to any one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 resurrection of evil.... well I got to be honest, i was excited about this game. But really 
 I didn't see any great improvements. I mean the only thing I liked was the double coach barrel 
 shotgun because it is a classic weapon from doom 2 and I was proud they add it to this expansion. 
 But the other weapon the grabber.... CMON. Trying to copy half-life 2's gravity gun. Only thing 
 that the grabber is different is that it is a lot more useless. I mean true you would use it in 
 the beginning because it will be only weapon you got in the beginning of the game. And where was 
 the chainsaw??? I mean the chainsaw is at least more useful then the grabber. Anyways doom 3 ressurrection 
 of evil is an ok expansion, I mean you get to play 8 players online instead of 4 and that they 
 add new maps. And that doom 3 ROE has a very very short single player, I mean it will only take 
 you 1 or 2 days to beat and then you will not feel like you would want to play the singe player. 
 Although I do like the artifact because each boss you beat.... you get there powers like slow-motion, 
 berzerk mode and invulneribility. There are 4 bosses in the game. And they are very easy don't 
 you worry. If your a doom 3 fan, you can enjoy it. I would recommend it, but not to someone that 
 expects lots of difference like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  After you played Doom III and completely finished it, how'd you feel, besides the fact you were 
 still shivering from the gameplay? You wanted more, and this game will give it to you straight 
 up, just how you like it. The expansion parck for Doom III is definately worth the price, but the 
 only problem is that is it extremely short. A hardcore gamer can blow right through this game in 
 exactly four hours or less.
  
  The gameplay in the game is astounding, just like Doom III. You are on the edge of your seat the 
 whole time through waiting for some creature to come out and scare you. The story is about a group 
 of Marines who secure a new tomb area, and one of the Marines picks up a object... an object which 
 opens the portal to hell and starts the whole sequence over again. The whole squad gets wiped out, 
 but the Marine who picked up the object survives. You end playing through the variety of levels; 
 from the ruins of the old cicilization, to the mines, and finally to the research facilities. And 
 of course, the last level is in Hell.
  
  The graphics in the game is pure amazing, and if you have a great PC, you'll get the chills from 
 the blood stained corridors and walkways. Everything in this game is at its best from graphical 
 performance. The characters and creatures look superb. The detail put into everything is just Doom 
 style.
  
  The sound in the game is just like the original. The creepy laughs and the same weapons sound the 
 same. Zombies have the same noises and so does the creatures.
  
  There are though new stuff:
  
  [*] New weapons, one in which you can grab the plasma balls 
 enemies throw at you and then you can throw them back. Sweet! Another one is the famous double-barrel 
 shotgun!
  
  [*] A new object in which you can slow down time.
  
  [*] Great new Story-line, although its short, in which you will love.
  
  [*] New Enemies
 
  
  [*] New Scares! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exhorst
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  This game is terrific, I picked it up for 30 AU$ and it was worth every cent. It is no where near 
 as long as Doom 3, but the added variety in the levels, monsters and weapons more than makes up 
 for it. 
  
  A lot of people here have criticised ROE for it being too much like the D3. Well, duh, its an expansion 
 pack for Doom 3 not Doom 4. some people who reviewed this game and gave it a poor rating here have 
 even said they only played a couple hours of ROE, i wonder how they know what it is like.
  
  The graphics engine for this game imo is still the best out there at the moment, that level 
 where you go through the tunnel with the sentry droid is just mindblowing with the shadows of the 
 enemy's showing on the walls... creepy!
  
  The new weapons albeit only 3 are great additions. The "Grabber" or gravity gun are terrific, it 
 takes some getting used to but it is really useful to be able to throw fireballs and rockets right 
 back at enemies. The double shotgun is good fun aswell as it can destroy just about anything with 
 one point blank shot. And the artifact saves you, even though it killed every other friendly on 
 the base.
  
  The sound is top notch again like D3, the weapons sound fine but the sound is what gives it the 
 atmospheric creepiness, especially with a 5.1 speaker system.
  
  the game is quite easy on the first and second difficulty settings but gives you a good challenge 
 on Nightmare. I would recommend this game to anyone who likes Doom 3 because it is a great expansion, 
 which adds a whole lot more to an already great game.
  
  If you have any feedback to this review please email me at mickandy99@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jac5232
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  As the title says, if you liked Doom 3, you'll like this game. 1st, on to the "expansions". You 
 have a Grabber, which is very useful for giving a Hellknight a taste of his own medicine. You have 
 the Double Barreled Shotgun, which is VERY good in a pinch. Finally, there's the artifact. The 
 artifact is a heart like item that collects power from human corpses. At 1st you can slow down 
 time, but then you get other powers with it, and they add on. The fact you can hold only 3 "charges" 
 at a time makes you need to use the item strategically. Also, new enemies. There's the Vulgar, 
 a slightly weaker more tenacious version of the Imp. Then, the Bruiser. He's basically a stronger 
 Mancubus, but his fire is more machinegun like, and more powerful per blow. Then there's The Forgotton, 
 who replace the Lost Souls of Doom 3. Finally, the Hunters, basically 3 boss fights. (not including 
 the final boss, who imo is tougher than Cyber Demon) Now, let's address the pros of this Expansion 
 Pack. Where as Doom 3 tried somewhat fruitlessly to scare you to death, this game is more about 
 shooting your enemies, making the game more fast paced. There will be some attempted scares here 
 though, and since they're fewer in amount it works better. Also, as of now it's only 20 bucks. 
 Haven't played the Multiplayer on this game yet so can't rate that. Heard/read it's better though. 
 Now to the cons. As an expansion pack the game is on the short side. Also, if you hated Doom 3 
 you will not like this game all that much. That said, I have to recommend it to all who enjoyed 
 Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_Davila89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing 
 else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i 
 have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else 
 to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have 
 nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to 
 say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing 
 else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i 
 have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else 
 to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have 
 nothing else to say i have nothing else to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  Resurrection of evil is a great expansion to what Doom 3 left , it is a very decent game and adds 
 a few very decent additions such as the double barreled shotgun which is extremely powerfull , 
 the grabber (strange similarity to HL2 gravity gun) which now makes you able to grab and move stuff 
 and throw away little enemies or sending back enemy attacks , there is also the artifact which 
 needs to be fed by human souls it gains powers during the game as you defeat the hunters , the 
 artifact is a very useful addition to the game and a great weapon .
  
  Like Doom 3 this game depends on dark surroundings and eery sounds , the game is as scary as Doom 
 3 if not more , it adds a few new enemies also in addition to the old enemys making it harder , 
 it keeps its jumps out of the corner scares and the voices in your head , Resurrection of evil 
 is totally recommendable if you liked Doom 3 you should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20860399346417257776889966510425-bull_people
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 Resurrection of Evil is the expansion pack to Doom 3 and overall Nerve Software has done 
 a great job of fixing some of the gameplay issues Doom 3 had. Or so expect to have a much better 
 time playing Resurrection of Evil than you had playing Doom 3.
  
  Gameplay, 
  Doom 3 was a fun FPS but that was it, it wasnt great and it wasnt bad. Resurrection of Evil improves 
 the formula of Doom 3 just by giving you more things to shoot at. Doom 3 took away most of the 
 action to try and scar you which it overall failed at doing so Resurrection of Evil is not a scary 
 game, it wont even make jump not once but this is a good thing because it gives that up to put 
 a lot more action into it.
  
  Another great thing about Resurrection of Evil is the open areas you encounter at the start of 
 the game. Doom 3 was a corridor to corridor, room to room type game, what I mean is you just go 
 from room to room killing everything you see moving, pick up as much ammo as you can, pick up a 
 PDA and go to the next room. In Resurrection of Evil you play in a lot more open environments.
 
  
  Graphics,
  Doom 3 was the best looking game of 2004 and Resurrection of Evil still looks amazing. Everything 
 in this game is very nice just to look at, overall this is one of the best looking games of 2005. 
 
  
  Sound,
  The sound in Doom 3 was top of the line and Resurrection of Evil still holds up the great sound 
 Doom 3 had. The demons all sound like they should but the only complaint I have will the sound 
 is the weapons sound a bit weak. 
  
  Value, 
  Well the single player campaign is shorter than the campaign in Doom 3, it at an OK length for 
 an expansion pack. The multiplayer is so much better to the multiplayer of Doom 3. Mostly because 
 you get capture the Flag which what was missing from the first one. 
  
  Overall,
  This is a big improvement to Doom 3; if you liked Doom 3 give this a try, if you had some problems 
 with the gameplay in Doom 3 give this a try but if you hated Doom 3 you most likely will hate Resurrection 
 of Evil to. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Doom three was a title released last year with mixed results. Although it was clearly not one of 
 the best shooters of the year, which was quite competitive, it had some of the best graphics ever 
 put to screen. The textures and animations were super impressive, although the game lacked in pretty 
 much every other area. Although it was quite lengthy, it really didnt do much in the shooting 
 department and AI wasnt that great, but yeah, the graphics really rocked. Doom three resurrection 
 of evil is the first expansion for that hit shooter and its definitely in the if you loved the 
 original, youll love the expansion, but if you didnt then you wont enjoy the expansion. Doom 
 three resurrection of evil still has many of the same glaring flaws that Doom three had, but the 
 new weapons, superb graphics, rather lengthy campaign for an expansion, and inclusion of the first 
 story makes up for some of the problems Doom three had.
  
  Doom three resurrection of evil once again puts you in the shoes of another nameless, talk less 
 marine who doesnt have any personality what-so-ever. The story actually takes place several years 
 after Doom three and features new characters and some old ones. While its still not all that remarkable, 
 Doom three had a somewhat anti-climax at the end, so its nice to see it all come to and end. The 
 story starts off with an artifact that is dug up at about the same place where Doom three left 
 off in the caverns. The game starts off strong with you in these caverns for a good part of the 
 game, since most people complained that Doom three relied way too much on the winding corridor 
 crawl that got annoying fast.
  
  The weaponry in Doom three was pretty impressive, despite the direct point-and-shoot type that 
 was used. In Doom three resurrection of evil, there are two new weapons, the double barreled shotgun 
 and the grabber. The double barrel shotgun is pretty self-explanatory, its basically a stronger 
 version of the original shotgun that must be reloaded each time you fire, its actually so powerful 
 that youll catch yourself using it throughout most of the journey, since the ammo you get is pretty 
 large, especially at the beginning parts of the game. Because of this, there really is no reason 
 to use any other weapons with the one shot one kill method with the double barreled shotgun and 
 even the rocket launcher isnt as powerful at close range, and you dont take lots of damage too, 
 which is a huge bonus for the double barreled shotgun. The grabber is a lot like the gravity gun 
 off half life two. The only difference is the physics system is a lot less impressive, so theres 
 not as much stuff to pick up and throw around with it, although when foes like the imps throw fireballs 
 at you, you can throw it back using the grabber, which will almost instantly kill your enemies. 
 Still, I found myself relying on the double barreled shotgun more than anything.
  
  The new levels really arent new. There just basically newer design levels, although youll feel 
 like youre in the same places as before. The good news is that the levels vary, although youll 
 be in caverns when you start, just when your getting sick of those youll go to the corridors and 
 eventually work your way back to Hell to secure the artifact, since thats the only way to stop 
 the evil. Once again, the evil Dr. Betruger is behind all of this, but this time though, hes more 
 of a pterodactyl more than anything and isnt his usual human form.
  
  Doom three resurrection of evil has a lot to offer in terms of interesting weaponry. Since the 
 grabber could be called the first type of weapon that isnt direct point-and shoot, this time youre 
 also armed with the artifact, which gets stronger as you advance. Throughout the game you will 
 take on three bosses which use the physics system and the powers that the artifact has. The three 
 powers that this artifact gets are: slowing down time, giving you max health, and doing extra damage. 
 The good news is, you get all of these powers at the same time, so right when you use the power 
 of the artifact, and you automatically use all the powers that youve unlocked thus far. In order 
 to get the powers back, you have to use dead corpses from both monsters and humans and use their 
 souls to bring power back to the artifact.
  
  The graphics in Doom three resurrection of evil havent been tampered with. Its still as creepy 
 as Hell, literally, and is without a doubt, still one of the best looking titles around, although 
 the graphics havent been upgraded from Doom three, were talking about a graphics engine that was 
 magnificent in the first place. From the outstanding textures to the amazing amount of atmosphere, 
 this is a fine looking game.
  
  The sound is also quite excellent. The voice acting is terrific, while the noises that happen to 
 creep you out is great and I actually jumped quite a bit, although Doom three resurrection of evil 
 really isnt that scary of a game overall. The weapon sounds are still a bit off, but the creepy 
 music that plays really makes up for it. 
  
  Once you finish this game, theres then the multiplayer, which is Ok. Its no Unreal tournament 
 2004 or Battlefield two, but it is sufficient. Its basically added the deathmatch with capture 
 the flag which isnt a whole lot of reason to play online. The capture the flag maps are basically 
 the same as deathmatch, with some maps in the corridor drawl while others are in the caverns part 
 of Doom three resurrection of evil. Overall though, the maps are fair, just dont expect anything 
 to great, thanks mainly because of the lag.
  
  Doom three resurrection of evil is a great game, I personally enjoyed Doom three, but a lot of 
 people didnt this game isnt as disappointing since we already know what Doom three was like. 
 Its also worth noting that you have to have the original Doom three to play this game, you cant 
 just jump in with the expansion, thats mainly why this is a title that if you liked the original, 
 youll love the expansion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  id certainly has a masterpiece in their hands. Doom 3 and ROE is gorgeous to look at if you have 
 a high end machine. Doom 3: the original was the first game i bought after an absence from 3d gaming 
 for almost 3 years. 
  
  The gameplay has not changed. It is still run, enter space, clear area, pick up ammo or heal self, 
 etc, etc. but it does this using the new engine. Techniically the graphics are superb but imagine 
 playing this same game in 2008 with the same run and gun, it will be very bad. 
  
  Games in general need to change gameplay evry now and then. the truth is that apart from FEAR, 
 this is the other game that gives me the creeps when playing at night. It will make you jump out 
 of your seat sometimes and i have played the game up to 6 times and im still scared. 
  
  This game deserves every gamer's attention. Pick it up if you dont have one. The sound is everything 
 in this game if you have EAX 4.0 or Sound blaster X-Fi.
  
  I believe that this game is underrated by GS. It should have gotten at least a 9 overall. 
  
 
  I am extremely satisfied with this game because of its horror and the classic shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game06
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This expansion delivers more scary gameplay. Although it is one of the best games I have ever played, 
 there wasn't much change in the expansion. Graphic effects and sound quality are THE most important 
 features a gamer should have in order to get the best experience throughout the entire game. The 
 introduction was amazing, and as you play the missions it also gets more hellish and SCARY. It 
 did quite help me get over my fear of beign in the dark. Now being alone in the dark is no problem 
 at all. I recommend extreme gamers to buy this game, 100% guranteed that the experience will be 
 worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfx69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  The folks at Nerve and ID were wise to create an expansion that builds on the Doom story, yet uses 
 new characters as well as more open areas in gameplay. The new weapons are excellent additions, 
 especially the slo mo artifact. 
  
  I was hesitant to buy this one, but it was very well worth the money. The gameplay is heavily scripted, 
 and the scripting is better than any previous Doom episode. Lots of surprises that are a little 
 more creative than in the original Doom 3. Nice to see the game evolve so well.
  
  For those who like sci fi horrer first person shooters, this is highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CynStein
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Scary as all get out. Keep up the good work guys ,and on a side note this game at certain points 
 makes me jump outta my chair literally because of the surprises. The setting is really creepy and 
 the hell setting makes me think twice about certain things and its one place I would not want to 
 visit for real. That is how creepy it is. And the grabber gun is awesome. I love taking those fireballs 
 and shoving back down the demon's throat namely of course the imps and vulgars as those things 
 are annoying anyway. The final scene where he shoves the artifact down the maledicts throat aka 
 Betruger was a real classic. I loved it. Shows what he gets for bragging and taunting too much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  This review is for Doom 3 and The Resurrection of Evil Expansion Pack.
  
  Alright, so it's not scary, but at least make it fun. Hey, it was better than Half-Life 2.
  
 
  Gameplay: Standard FPS Stuff. Nothing new. Not creepy. Fun for a while, then boring. Decent variety 
 of better than average weapons. (6)
  
  Graphics: Glossy and repetitive. Maybe Doom 3 has some great graphics, if only I could see them. 
 Only a few enemy types. (9)
  
  Sound: It's alright I suppose. (7)
  
  Value: It's much longer than your average FPS. That isn't necessarily a good thing. The multiplayer 
 is average, in other words boring. (5)
  
  Tilt: Becomes extremely repetitive although it is fun at first. (6)
  
  The Good: Doom 3 isn't 
 very good, but at least it's not bad.
  
  The Bad: Doom 3 isn't bad it just isn't very good.
  
  Bottom Line: There are only five levels 
 in the game. FIVE! The longest level is a series of endless dark rooms and corridors. The second 
 is a dark Hell. The third, some dark underground ruins. The other levels are hardly worth mentioning 
 as they are so short you can beat them both in about 15 minutes. The fourth is a quick run through 
 some dark sewers and the fifth is brief excursion on the Martian surface. The game may be divided 
 up into dozens of sections, but there are still only three main levels plus two very tiny ones. 
 If the developers had shortened the first three levels and lengthened the last two I mentioned 
 and then added a bunch more it would have gone a long way toward making Doom 3 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Eagle_2004
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:04 am PT
Review:  Storyline: Once again you play as a marine but a different one this time. You get sent to Mars 
 2 years after the aftermath and get sent to inspect a strange life source. And so your character 
 finds it and has to touch and again all hell breaks lose. 
  
  Gameplay: Just like Doom 3 you get kill demons nothing really new except new faces to kill. You 
 get your same weapons like before except for 3. You get a double barreled shotgun that is from 
 the original doom, plus tougher than the shotgun you used back in Doom 3. You also get a weapon 
 called the Grabber, a ripoff from Half-Life 2's gravity gun. You get to pick objects like barrels 
 and throw it at your enemies but you also get to kill them with their own weapons. As an example 
 if you see a demon and it throws a fireball at you, you can use the grabber and throw it back right 
 at it. A good way to save up on ammo. The last weapon is called the Primitive aka the artifact, 
 it looks like heart pretty much except with powers. You need it when you get into bass that are 
 called the Hunters and each time you kill them you get a power up from. One of the power ups is 
 to slow down time, a great thing later on into the game. Once again you will be in the dark and 
 you have a flashlight so I suggest to download a duct tape mod for your weapons cause Activision 
 and ID want to make you suffer. 
  
  Graphics: From my other review on Doom 3 it depends if you got a good system or not. If you do 
 then graphics will be top of the line. 
  
  Sound: Just like in the Doom 3 you get the same stuff nothing really new. Read my review of Doom 
 3 to get a little more information on it.
  
  Overall Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil is the sequel of Doom 3. Same gameplay as well nothing really 
 has changed except new weapons to use and new demons to kill. The only differences that I see is 
 it's more darker than before and more demons to kill at once. Also it's a short game unlike Doom 
 3 it should take about 6 to 8 hours to complete. For the hardcore Doom fans this would be a great 
 PC game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -sero
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it's a rehash the same game you played before, with added goodies. The expansion adds a slew 
 of new enemies, levels, and... oh yeah, the double barrel shotgun. Who doesn't love the double 
 barrel shotgun? That's like, totally worth the price right there. Ok, now that we've gotten past 
 the sarcasm, let's begin.
  
  This time around, you're not the same character you were in Doom 3. This time, you're another marine 
 that's been sent into the abandoned research facility on Mars, led by a somewhat ugly redheaded 
 research chick that apparently gets her jollies off by acquiring ancient demonic artifacts. Of 
 course, you discover one, and as soon as you touch it (why can't you just look?!) , all hell breaks 
 loose, again.
  
  The graphics are the same as the original, and so is the sound. The only new things are a rehashed 
 story plot, several new enemies, a multitude of levels (that use the same textures) , and a double 
 barrel shotgun. So if you're looking for a brand spankin' new game, you're in for a big shocker. 
 However, don't be fooled into believing this game isn't worth your time. At a low price of $20, 
 or even lower for used copies, you would be a fool not to pick it up and give it a go. There is 
 still tons of fun to be had by shooting the hell out of demons for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aditya
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Developers did manage to continue original story quite well. But mostly the experience is quite 
 similar to the first and it failed in delivering the horror. The game was more difficult from Doom, 
 I think. 
  
  The ending too was quite abrupt. I think the designers should have added some portion of exploring 
 demon world. Not just to kill demons but also be creative in describing how those demons survive 
 in such an unfriendly environment. What technologies/weapons do they employ ... probably we could 
 have reused those in killing them ... though one can utilize gravity gun to throw back the fireballs. 
 
  
  The first game opened a portal between two worlds and allowed us to explore Mars and creatures 
 from the other world with a bit into other world. I was hoping that in this game we will spend 
 more time figuring out from where those creatures get their power and trying to acquire/destroy 
 the same.
  
  The art is superb. The rendering of teleport points, the gravity gun - how it picks up items, etc. 
 are excellent. I spend some time gazing at few places because of its sheer beauty.
  
  Overall I should say the game rocks like Doom. Since this is an expansion pack I cannot complain 
 much anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avenger1212
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start out by thanking Nerve and Activision for reminding me that you can't improve 
 on perfection. In fact, after this expansion, I am willing to bet $29.99 that no one can make a 
 more pointless mind numbing rip-off of another revolutionary game. Let's let Square remake Doom 
 3 with the main character being a Moogle named Moogies and have him run around killing zombies 
 with a candy cane. George Lucas must have been directing this sequil.
  
  Seriously, this expansion takes what I feel is the most revolutionary FPS to hit the market since 
 Aliens Vs Predator and totaly turns it into refried beans. What per say do I mean by this you ask? 
 Let me enlighten you, hopefully before you waste your hard earned money on this movie sequel quality 
 knock off of a great game. I'm not going to go into gameplay, graphics or sound, these (go figure) 
 were identical to the original.
  
  The first thing I had to ask the developer is..."There are going to be zombies in your zombie game 
 right?" The slow moving moan factories typically provided little challege to our well armed marine, 
 but it is the idea of the walking dead that gave this critic most of his chills from the original. 
 Sadly, I was bored with this expansion well before even the first zombie popped his half missing 
 head out. Oh, and for the love of God lay off those green ball throwing imps. If that's all hell 
 has then they are Doomed (pun intended) .
  
  Secondly..... Hey! What fan of the FPS genera doesn't like runing around pointlessly through all 
 too familiar and repetative terrain while performing rewardless quests for that all too elusive 
 security code? Answer: This guy! Instead of a sense of impending doom I was left with more of a 
 gassy sensation, kind of like you get when playing Battlefield 1942 single player against bots. 
 Can you say "Ho hum?" I knew you could.
  
  Lastly, could they have at least tried to come up with something original? Yeah, the little demon 
 artifact was interesting once or twice but after a while it did start to take all the fun out of 
 the game. Let me get out my bleeding heart for a second. This expansion lacked spirit. The original 
 had thrills and chills, but it also had a sense of rhythm and timing. It's the kind of thing that 
 sets the B grade horror movies apart from the B+ grade horror movies. The original had a sense 
 of urgency and drive, this game played like I downloaded some new multiplayer maps for Doom 3, 
 not like a new adventure. 
  
  Alas, this is the pit of doom (no pun intended this time) that most expansions seem to fall into. 
 Apart from sailing on the winds of the original Doom 3, this game fits the bill for everything 
 you would expect from an expansion. For that I will grade it as I feel it deserves, and deduct 
 an extra point from every category but Graphics and Sound as punishment for taking a big ol' dump 
 on one of the best FPS shooters ever created. For shame ID........ for shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chimpson6
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is basicaly just like like Doom 3, with a slightly altered storyline, but it is still 
 fun, nonetheless.
  
  Gamplay- Basic FPS controls make it fairly easy to do combat with multipul enemies, which, there 
 will be plenty of.
  New wepons, like the dubble-barrel Shot-gun, and the grabber Gun, are fun... at first. Then you 
 realize that when all the bad-guys are closing in on you, the new Shot-gun just reloads way to 
 slow, and they find out that the grabber- gun really isn't used much, its just kinda... there. They 
 were great ideas, but they just sort of fell apart during the game.
  The new abilitys that the artifact gives you are fun to use, but every time you have to use one, 
 its like the game tells you what your gonna have to do. Were not dumb ya know... we can figure it 
 out ourselves, right? 
  
  Graphics- once agian the graphics are really great... but it all gets a little repetitve after playing 
 the first one.
  
  Really, I think all this game was, was ID trying to milk a great game for all its worth, but you 
 can't blame them can ya? Either way this was still a good game, but I only recomend it, if you 
 really liked the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necro79_basic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Resurrection of evil is a good expansion, lots of mood, scary elements and a nice homage payed 
 to doom 2, the double-barrelled shotgun. unfortunatly instead of a good fallback weapon like a 
 chainsaw for when ammo runs out, which it does constantly in this game, even with ammo conservation, 
 precise chest and head shots are made, you still run out constantly. you get a total carbon copy 
 of the gravity gun of Half Life 2, which other then throwing explosive barrels at enemies (a very 
 unsafe tactic) is totally useless anyway else. Nerve software thought it was a good idea to make 
 the player be forced to constantly use the artifact to beat many enemies, which does become very 
 useful once its upgraded. 
  
  The unfortunate part of it all is that this is a first person shooter, not a first person trickster 
 which the developers may have had in mind. if you play this expansion and find that using the health, 
 ammo or god cheat to beat it just on medium difficulty, dont feel bad. you'd only be holding out 
 for a cache of ammo that never really comes. it does get better as you play, but the ammo shortage 
 is so bad in the beginning part of the game, youll probably stop playing, like i did, for awhile 
 until you really feel like finishing this expansion. the game gets a 9 out fo ten for level layout, 
 enemies, new elements and mood, but a 0/10 for testing, because even the most unobservant game 
 tester would notice when there are 10 more enemies to face, but no ammo to kill them with. the 
 ammo shortage gets so bad in fact that it can pretty much stop the game when you face the first 
 boss enemy.
  
  its a good expansion, just you keep wondering why your so tempted to ask the console for ammo when 
 the ammo caches leave you begging for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galbot2k
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:36 am PT
Review:  After JUST completing the game I'd just like to say what a BIG let down and anti-climax the end 
 was.
  
  I was amazed by the end of the last and couldn't wait to finish the story but no such pleasure 
 out of this one. The story was weak throughout and the action the same as the last but still i 
 plodded along until the end waiting and anticipating the final battle with Betruger. WHAT A BORE.
 
  
  The graphics were great and the game play good, my only complaint was with the sound. For some 
 reason the game did not like my Sound blaster Audigy 2 so it would not recognize the 7.1 speakers 
 I have running, no such problem with quake 4 though?
  
  All in all a poor game with a great engine. Lets hope quake 4 is better
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Gundam01
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 9:29 am PT
Review:  big let down of a game. needs work everywhere except graphics. graphics are amazing on both of 
 them but he problem is gameplay. The gameplay is counter intuitive, the weapons are inconsistant 
 and sometimes stupid, and evidently the future does not contain Ducttape. 
  
  Gameplay: okay, i just unloaded a clip into your head at close range and your still alive...
 
  
  somehow that seems like it should be different. 
  
  The True-Doom Mod made the game playable, which changed several quantitative aspects such as headshots 
 are twice as effective while body shots are half forcing you to not SUCK when shooting people. 
 
  
  To the makers of Doom: if i can have a gun now with a flashlight on it, then why can't i have one 
 on mars? did they get misplaced directed like teh chainsaws?
  
  Graphics: this is where they score highly. The engine, albeit a **** is good and will render exceedingly 
 well. Too bad you need a 512 card to run it at any of the higher levels.
  
  Sound: sound is fine, i like the music, especially the intro stuff. its very reminiscent of the 
 origonal
  
  Value: Not worth the 30 i paid for it, wait til you can get it used from gamestop for like $5 so 
 you don't waste your money completely. I wont take you more than 8 hours to beat it on the hardest 
 setting and has around a near-zero replayability rating.
  
  Reviewers tilt: Dude, i waited for Doom for like 10 years. You think you could have made it at 
 least not SUCK. Oh by the way, making it dark and scary does not "add a new level of difficulty", 
 it adds a new level of extrordinary frustration and stupidity. REMEMBER THAT WE HAVE DUCTTAPE.
 
  
  summery:
  
  not good, big let down, should have taken longer, not worth your money, download the mods if you 
 already made the mistake, biggest let down in all of gaming history.
  
  just go and buy half-life 2. its vastly better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  When released, Doom 3 became an instant classic, with scary dark graphics, great single-player 
 and multi player, and great game play. Resurrection Of Evil brings more of the same, but with some 
 tasty extras. Firstly, there are new weapons, most notably, the futuristic dual-barreled sawed-off 
 shotgun, and the grabber gun. This gun has similar characteristics with Half-Life 2's Gravity Gun 
 thing. Only, you can absorb someone's fireballs and hurl it back towards them.
  
  The multi player adds the capture-the-flag feature, which can be pretty fun. But the death match's 
 is where it's at, and it does it well. Overall an excellent expansion pack to make Doom better 
 ever before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 17, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed Doom3, even with the annoyingly dark levels, impotent shotgun, and generally not fun 
 weapons. But there was also a lot to like: the sounds (sans weapons and petulant demon-screeches) 
 were the best ever and really immersed you into the game.
  The expansion pack, sad to say, is not very fun. It is without question less satisfying than the 
 original. There are no scary or even particularly creepy moments. The interesting machinery from 
 the first game that added so much to the atmoshpere are just about gone.
  New weapons.... the double barrel shotgun? Ouuuuuu, big deal. The ability to freeze time is boring 
 and removes all the challenge from the fights. See a big monster? No problem, freeze time and easily 
 kill him!
  Although I recommended Doom3, I cannot recommend the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2005 7:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is much better than Doom 3. The expansion really picks up the pace and gives you more 
 enemies to kill and more weapons to choose from.
  Gameplay - Nothing special about this one. You just run around and shoot stuff. The grabber gun 
 really makes some of the fights more interesting. The sacred artifact becomes a necessity in the 
 later parts of the game.
  Graphics - The graphics are really amazing in this game. The models look very good, but some of 
 the textures are a little fuzzy. The monsters steal the show with the most detail I have ever seen 
 in an enemy.
  Sound - The acting is good and the sounds that the monsters make are also very well done. The screaming 
 and explosions will really sound great on a nice system.
  Value - Nothing special about the multiplayer and the game is really short. I probably beat it 
 in 6 or 7 hours. On the other hand, the game is pretty cheap, so it is worth buying if you liked 
 Doom 3.
  Tilt - Once you finish, I think you will realize that this game was fun the whole way through. 
 The boss fights are fun and the enemies are scary and fun to kill. Enjoy:)
  AMD 64 3500+
  1gig SDRAM
  Nvidia 7800 GT OC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conor_220
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 3:53 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed Doom 3, and you still think that the 30 hours of gameplay in it wasn't enough. Then 
 the expansion is much the same but with new guns, levels and a cool artifact that slows down time. 
 Thats all there is to say. Its very good though with great level design just like Doom 3. However 
 it is to short, unlike the original Doom 3. The graphics are much the same as the original Doom 
 3 and it runs well on your system just like Doom 3. The new creatures in the game are interesting 
 and the storyline is alright, but nothing to get excited about. Its still pretty damm scary and 
 immersive, if you shat your pants in Doom 3 then gets some spare undies for this one because its 
 not as immersive and scary but still enough if you have a weak bladder to make you piss yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smellypj
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 12, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was a graphically outstanding game. Sadly this game fell short when people relaized it was 
 hallway after hallway. 
  Well Doom 3: ROE takes place 2 years after Doom 3 when UAC lands on mars after reciveing a distress 
 call . As you investigate the ruins you find an artifact, when touching it unleashes hell... again. 
 With this artifact you can get bullet time, beserk mode and eventually god mode. The new artifact 
 opens up new gameplay elements, along with a couple new guns. These guns are the old double barreled 
 shotgun, and the grabber (very similiar to gravity gun) . This expansion starts out with large rooms, 
 and ruins. But eventually winds down to the hallways. 
  So if you found Doom 3 a enjoyable game you will find this enjoyable as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 13, 2005 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 : Resurrection of Evil is some sort of Doom 3, Part II. It's basically the same game, with 
 a new hero and a somewhat new story.
  
  The graphics are still outstanding in this expansion and, to my surprise, the environments are 
 a little bit more lit than they were in the original, even though we are still on Mars and still 
 at the same base. The gameplay is identical to the original, you still go around shooting monsters 
 and demons and zombies and all that wonderful hellish stuff... but it seems that the military still 
 has no money to buy guns with flashlights on them. The new grappler gun (can we say Half-Life 2 
 ripoff kids ?) adds a new dimension to the game, but not that much of one.
  
  The replay value for the single player part of this game is not very high, but the multiplayer 
 is pretty decent. It's not Unreal Tournament, but it's still good.
  
  Doom 3 : RoE is a good expansion pack and I recommend it to all fans of the Doom series and especially 
 of Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 1, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Resurrection of evil brings some new things to the scary shooter Doom 3, the graphics and the level 
 layouts and stuff are the same, youre still on mars except there are more enemies and more weapons.
 
  
  the double barrel shotgun is back which made me go woohoo when i first saw it. its still the same 
 amazing weapon with the really slow reload but deadly bullets. there is also this gravity gun which 
 i thought wasnt all that nice, its just there to grab enemies and things they throw at you and 
 you can fling it back to them.
  
  This game is the same thing as the original Doom 3, this is hardly any different, still dark and 
 hard but with more of these random enemies attacking you all at once which is nice and there are 
 more of those scary voices you hear from the demon which also is nice. if you liked doom 3 then 
 get this otherwise forget it, you wont like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  played Half Life 2, the graphics of HL 2 is unbelievable; and I think Doom 3 RE's graphics is nearly 
 perfect! (The graphics is same as Doom 3) I am using the GeForce FX5200 display card, that is certainly 
 not a good card for gaming, but I can still run this game well, great performance, and excellent 
 graphics! My card could run games with excellent graphics like Chronicles of Riddick, but performance 
 is bad, very choppy. So I reckon this game's graphics is top notch.
  For the gameplay, it won't disappoint you if you've enjoyed Doom 3, and if you like run and gun. 
 However I don't like this, because there is hardly any AI. And the game is short, the expansion 
 has only 1 cd, despite from this, it is a good expansion while they added things. 
  The multiplayer is lame, although it added a few more types of mp games. If you want to buy this 
 game for multiplayer, I don't think it's worht it.
  This is a masterpiece of FPS, so don't miss it. At least you should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 17, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil is just as the advertisement portrays. That is, a simply an expansion 
 of the original Doom 3 PC game. I thoroughly enjoyed playing the original Doom 3, but then I prefer 
 FPS genre above all others. ID software has added a few new monsters to kill, but most are the 
 same as those in the original game. The publishers really had me going when I found a weapon much 
 like the Gravity Gun in Half Life 2. Unfortunately, it never panned out to be nearly as forceful 
 as in HL2.
  
  As one traverses the game, the player is still on Mars to start with. As in Doom 3, the gamer eventually 
 ends up in HELL Ninety-nine percent of the game-play is the same as Doom 3, therefore, the learning 
 curve is flattened. Overall, it has very scary monster that literally jump out at the gamer. From 
 boards and unions I am on, I see the consensus is that Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil is one of the 
 scariest games available.
  
  A unique artifact looks much like a heart. With each BOSS one kills the complexity of the artifact 
 increases, until it can lend to at least three powerful attributes when used. Overall, I am a Doom 
 fan from way back so I have to award high marks to the game and this expansion pack, Doom 3: Resurrection 
 of Evil.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 26, 2005 1:45 am PT
Review:  Just eight months after Id Software released their long-awaited first person shooter Doom 3, Resurrection 
 of Evil continues the story from the previous game adding new weapons, new enemies, and a wee bit 
 to the lackluster multiplayer that was released with its predecessor. John Carmack, the primary 
 coder and designer, certainly did a great job with the graphics with the way his shadows ran into 
 lights in each of the corridor levels on Mars, but it only seems to shine more in the expansion 
 pack as you lead your marine, a different recruit from the first game, on through eleven jam packed 
 levels of extreme gun fights with the denizens of Hell.
  
  Picking up two years after the ending of Doom 3, Resurrection of Evil takes place with another 
 marine who is part of a clean-up crew sent to Mars to retrieve materials lost from when the demons 
 protruded from Hell on the first encounter. The story itself explodes into motion when you, the 
 marine, come upon an evil artifact that just so happens to open the gates of Hell to all the foulness 
 that escaped the first time plus more. As the story progresses, youll learn that the gate can 
 keep being reopened as long as the artifact stays out of Hell itself, so what is your mission? 
 To bring the artifact back to Hell of course, but that wont be the easiest thing youre ever done 
 though. No, Id Software wouldnt make it that easy. Youll travel through eleven missions traversing 
 the likes the archaeological dig site, the Mars Station, and also into Hell itself, as you would 
 have guessed, on your quest to rid the evil of the abyss. Although the story isnt quite the best, 
 pretty much as bland as Doom 3; one has to remember from the previous games in the series, that 
 Doom never truly had a good plot behind it, so anything at all is a plus. And like Doom 3, half 
 of the storyline is fed to you through PDA emails and audio discs that you must find throughout 
 the blood-strewn corridors of the station.
  
  Once again, the Doom 3 engine has shone itself to be one of the best engines out there in terms 
 of graphics in todays world of gaming. Of course, to see most of the eye candy, youll need a 
 top of the line rig with some pretty good specs and even then, youll be missing out on some stuff 
 as this game and its predecessor was made for technology that hasnt even surfaced yet. How do 
 you like that? Thinking ahead already where most developers release games and all the specs can 
 be turned up by todays top computers, but with Doom 3 and its expansion, you still need something 
 more for everything included in this game in terms of graphics and special effects. One draw back 
 that some fans didnt like in Doom 3 is the necessity of the flashlight to navigate through a lot 
 of the area. Most players dont complain about that, but when your marine cant even hold a simple 
 flashlight and a weapon at the same time, it can be frustrating. But with the bad, comes the good 
 and the Doom 3 engine has a lot of that. Even though half of the game is cast in shadows, it was 
 not forgotten in the least. Go ahead, take your flashlight out and shine it in the small nooks 
 and corners throughout the Mars Station, youll see the exact attention to detail that is portrayed 
 in the more lit areas. Id Software left there fans with no empty smiles in the graphics department. 
 And of course, with most expansions, there are more enemies and the new demons in Resurrection 
 of Evil look as superb as those in the predecessor.
  
  With the new expansion, Id Software added some new weapons for the player to add to their arsenal 
 as they try to close the portal from Mars to Hell. These weapons include what is known as the 
 grabber which can be a pretty nifty weapon when you run low on ammo. Youre able to catch fireballs 
 and thrown projectiles of your enemies and throw them back. Of course, many can speculate that 
 Id Software copied Valves gravity gun, but they claim that their grabber gun was supposed to be 
 in Doom 3, but was scrapped at the last minute because of more testing being needed. You have to 
 choose who to believe in this long winded argument. Also included would be the double barrel shotgun 
 reminiscent of the same one back in Doom 2. Many fans of the series wanted it back when Doom 3 
 came out, so now they got their wish and let me tell you, its pretty powerful when dealing with 
 the larger denizens of Hell. The last new weapon would be the evil artifact itself, which can be 
 used to slow time down in a sense the same as bullet time. Along the way, youll gain new powers 
 for the evil artifact to make yourself that much more powerful, but the game wont get easier because 
 along with new weapons, new enemies were added to the fray. One of the new demons would be the 
 vulgar, which is a more powerful imp that shoots green plasma projectiles at you while youre trying 
 to dodge the new and improved Hell Knight that has a computer screen for a stomach. But if you 
 get the chance to get past those menaces, youll come upon the three bosses of the game which will 
 make you use the artifacts evil powers to progress through each trial to beat them and traverse 
 from the archaeological dig site deeper into the corridors of the Mars Station and finally into 
 the caverns of Hell.
  
  Coming off the lackluster style of gameplay that could only be classified as multiplayer, Resurrection 
 of Evil adds the ability to have eight players now in each map from four in the previous game. 
 Also included with the expansion is the style of gameplay called Capture the Flag which is pretty 
 much present in one way shape or form in most multiplayer games today. The advancement of eight 
 players to multiplayer isnt much to brag about when games nowadays are allowing 64 players in 
 one single map, but the modding community truly knows the ability of the graphics engine and are 
 progressively working on it to not only improve what is already there, but also to totally convert 
 into both, large single player campaigns, and also large scale multiplayer maps for anyone who 
 wants to download them. 
  
  Sound, as in Doom 3, was given detail in each area of the levels. Id Software definitely has a 
 knack for creating a great intense atmosphere for the player as he advances through the levels. 
 If you play the game like it was meant to be played, youll have your lights turned off and the 
 sound cranked way up and in that time, youll fully experience the gurgles and screeches of Hells 
 denizens from both your front and backside and then youll know fear.
  
  Overall, Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil is a good purchase for anyone who picked up Doom 3 because 
 it not only finishes the story that was left standing, but also because it adds new weapons and 
 enemies. One nice thing to know is that the modding community for the engine is really starting 
 to take off because modders are beginning to realize just how easy the engine is to work with. 
 If you were left with an open jaw from the uninspiring multiplayer of Doom 3, dont think that 
 the expansion will having any saving graces in that department, because Id Software wanted to make 
 it clear that they wanted to have a solid single player campaign and in the end, they did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrahfZilla
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 25, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed Doom 3, but it wasn't the most original concept in the world, and I feel that after 20 
 hours of that game, I'm done with Doom 3 for the rest of my life.
  
  And playing Resurrection of Evil proved that to me. The game is an improvement over Doom 3 in every 
 facet, except there's less emails to read, the game is more straightforward action and it is shorter. 
 Oh and, they have the dual barreled shotgun, which I absolutely love :)
  
  The game in some ways is actually easier than Doom 3 because of the hell powers a specific artifact 
 you find in the intro movie gives you. So when things get hairy just activate your hell powers 
 (which are invincibility, slowing down time, berserk) and just wreak havoc. The graphics are still 
 some of the best in gaming, the game is a power hog to play, and the sound is very well done with 
 some very good atmosphere.
  
  But, really, RoE is really one dimensional, it's a roller coaster ride throughout and for me. Doom 
 3 was enough of that to not need any expansion. Still worth the buy though, especially if you're 
 in love with the formula.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingzro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Playing through Resurrection of Evil, I felt it to be more like the original Doom. Not just because 
 of the double-barrelled shotgun, but some of the level design was very reminiscent.
  
  Of all the new additions put into Doom3, I think it's safe to say that the double-barrelled shotgun 
 is the best. Nothing beats blowing away some demons from hell than in one huge bang. The new levels, 
 especially the sewer level, was a lot like the original. The dark, musky feel of the corridors 
 reminded me of the pathways of the game that started it all.
  
  I felt that Resurrection of Evil was a much harder game than Doom3. One level back in hell kept 
 spawning some of the bigger demons like Hell Knights over and over again all around. After going 
 using Hell Time and the double shotty for a while the chaos ended and I was able to get a much 
 needed healing from the soul capturing device. 
  
  Overall Doom3: Resurrection of Evil plays much like the regular Doom3 but with the addition of 
 a few useful features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulofgondor91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2005 1:41 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 resurrectrion of Evil is just really more Doom 3. You play as a new (nameless) marine this 
 time around and just as the last game, fin PDAs to open doors or storage cabinets, fight the demons 
 of hell including a few new ones. 
  
  The game takes place about two years after Doom 3 and the UAC has reopened his bases on Mars. Your 
 with a team that has been sent to investagate a strange beckon that is deep whithin the underground 
 of Mars. The siginal it turns out is coming from an artifact and guess what, your Marine is the 
 stupidest of all of them and decides it would be a good idea to touch it, reopening the portal 
 to Hell. 
  
  The game takes around 8-10 hours to complete depending on your speed and yes, it looks suprisingly 
 good. I may look slightly better than Doom 3 in some places but for the most part it's un-noticable. 
 The weapons still sound just as underpowered as in the last game, but there are a few new weapons 
 at your disposal. The artifact, that has reopened the portal to hell (as the game progresses it 
 will gain more abilites) , and a double barreled shot gun as well as well as a grabber which will 
 allow you to grab things like fireballs from imps and shoot them back at your enemies. 
  
  Overall this game is just like it's predecessor Doom 3, except the most frequently seen enemy, 
 (imps) are now replaced by vulgurs, who are like super imps, they have more health and do more 
 damage but with your new weapons they aren't that much of a challenge. 
  
  The level designes are once again very repetitive and the game has few memorable moments except 
 for of course the last two or so levels. 
  
  If you played and liked the original Doom I would recomend picking up Resurrection of Evil, but 
 if not, it's not worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 28, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The Resurrection of Evil expansion to Doom 3 is nothing if not a testament to consistent art direction. 
 Developers Nerve Software didnt change ids no-compromise vision for the Doom canon, a "universe" 
 actually confined to a series of dark, noisy industrial corridors and rocky caverns on Mars. While 
 other games typically throw in a snow level, a jungle level, a warehouse level (crates!) and a 
 lava level, all for the sake of naked variety, Resurrection of Evil pretty much sticks to gloomy 
 halls, rooms, elevators and caves, and it does so unapologetically.
  
  Level after level, you're treated to three colours: brown dirt, metal (is metal a colour?) and 
 red blood. There's also a hell of a lot of pitch black, but I won't call that a colour because 
 I think one of my high school teachers said black is really the absence of all colours in the spectrum. 
 Or is that white? One of them is the combination of all colours. I'm going crazy! I hated high 
 school.
  
  I don't hate Doom 3 and RoE, however, despite the fact some critics call it repetitive and monotonous. 
 On the surface, the game does apparently commit the sin of repetition. But the more I played it, 
 the more I realized id set out to create a work of art, a singular vision of horror, rather than 
 a game. I began to appreciate the unwavering commitment to flat-out, skin-crawling dread the auteurs 
 at id retain. Indeed, I could only experience Doom 3 and its expansion in limited doses, so unsettling 
 was the dreadfulness of being trapped in a facility serving as the portal to Hell. This sounds 
 like damnation with faint praise, but I honestly want to convey the nightmarish quality of Doom 
 3's virtual environment.
  
  Doom 3 RoE's graphics are jaw-dropping awesome. Nevertheless, I will complain about the pitch black 
 shadows. In real life, light and darkness aren't simply pure opposites, like the difference between 
 flicking a switch "on" and "off." Why couldn't some shadows be 50 percent dark, so you could still 
 observe the objects and textures beneath? Or 25 percent, or 75 percent? Every shadow that id (and 
 Nerve) cast in every level is 100 percent black. Maybe I'm getting old, but this harsh blackness 
 strained my eyes.
  
  Doom 3 is one reason why I stupidly spent $850 on ATI's Radeon X800 XT Platinum video card (the 
 fastest hardware on the planet, when I bought it) , and another $900 on a new motherboard, hard 
 drive, CPU, RAM and power supply (Canadian prices suck!) . Yet the D3 RoE expansion's frame rate 
 still slows to a crawl at certain points, even bogging the menu screen, requiring a total system 
 restart. This might indicate a memory leak, a bug I thought was a flaw from the pre-Windows XP 
 era. Certain sound files in the game were jiggery too. What gives?
  
  Annoying bugs aside, Resurrection of Evil can best be described as Doom 3 version 1.5 -- not so 
 much an expansion as a continuation of the core original game. So I guess this review serves as 
 my impression of both products, because the two programs are like two parts of one horrific painting. 
 Damn, there's that faint praise again. Even if you're bored by Doom 3 the game, it's hard to deny 
 that Doom 3 is amazing art.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: servadac42
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 24, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  I was one of the very few people who actually enjoyed Doom III immensely. It had wonderful graphics, 
 solid gameplay and was really scary to top it off. I had high hopes for this expansion pack, the 
 ending of D3 left me wanting more. Resurrection of Evil had every chance to be a good add-on to 
 this great title, but fell short in a number of areas and is not much more than a big let down.
 
  
  One of the best parts of D3 was that it was so extremely atmospheric and intense. Tension was everywhere, 
 from start to finish. In this expansion pack, all of this is gone. This leaves a big gaping hole 
 that needs to be filled with something, and the only really new things in here are the few new 
 weapons and enemies. The enemies are nothing to get too excited about, it's dudes who are basicly 
 powered-up Imps, merely a bit harder to hit and with a more powerful attack, and some other unimaginative 
 run-of-the-mill bad guys. The weapons include a rip-off of Half-Life 2's gravity gun. It is boring 
 and hard to use, just like its HL2 counterpart. The double-barreled shotgun looks really cool, 
 but reloads painstakingly slow and has a short range. In other words, both the weapons and the 
 new enemies are a disappointment, like the rest of the game.
  
  RoE feels very much like a standard expansion pack: uninspired, standard maps, nothing really new, 
 simply there to milk some more money out of the original game's engine. I lost interest and stopped 
 playing this game only a couple of hours into the game. This one is not worth burning your hard-earned 
 money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: md123
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 19, 2005 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Game Name: Doom 3 Resurrection Of Evil 
  Platform: PC 
  Format/Region: NTSC 
  No. Players: 1 
  
  Plot: 
  2 years after the horrors that happened at the UAC's Mars Base 
 a signal is detected there. A small team of marines is sent to investigate. What was supposed to 
 be a simple mission turns nasty when all hell breaks loose again. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  Gameplay is as you were in the expansion those who have played Doom 3 will know what to expect. 
 There are some additions for the expansion though. 3 new weapons which include the old favourite 
 the double barreled shotgun, the Ionized Plasma Levitator or "Grabber Gun" and the mysterious artifact. 
 New enemies have been added aswell which include the Bruiser, Vulgar and the Hell Hunter. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are phenomenal they have to be seen to be believed. The lighting, shadows 
 the animation all of it makes an exciting playing experience. 
  
  Sound: The sound is as you would expect from such a big title the enemies sound eerie, hearing 
 them in a dark corridor can really make you nervous and possibly jump. 
  
  Plus Points: The graphics, the addition of the new weapons and enemies. 
  
  Downsides: The 
 multiplayer is lacking and is the only thing that stops this title from becoming one of the greats. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_orb
Rating: 7
Date: May 13, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  Resurrection of Evil starts out quite horribly to be honest. In fact on of my biggest problems 
 with this expansion was that the intro was too short by far. Doom 3 started off with a bit of a 
 walk around where you got to see a little bit of the facility and it's personnel in a more normal 
 setting. And while this section of Doom 3 was too short in my opinion it was long enough to draw 
 the player into the world. ROE on the other hand has no intro at all, just a short cut scene and 
 then you are left alone with your pistol to fend for yourself. Once you get into things and the 
 bothersome opening to the game is far behind you the game does recapture some of that Doom 3 feel 
 but it's still never really the same. There aren't nearly as many audio logs to listen to or e-mails 
 to go over, some people probably welcomed this but I found that it just made the game boring as 
 one of the charms of doom 3 for me was finding a quiet safe place so I could nervously pull out 
 my pda and go through other peoples files.
  
  The game does add new weapons and a few monsters but this did little or nothing for me. the "grabber" 
 gun is obviously inspired by the gravity gun from Half Life 2. However the grabber is no where 
 near as fun. That and the only things you really have available to toss around are boxes, barrels, 
 and exploding barrels. The only thing you will use it for will likely be to toss imp energy projectiles 
 back at them. You can use the gun to pick up ammo and such but there are only a few places where 
 you actually need to do this. Also included is the missing double barrelled shotgun but I actually 
 used the regular shotgun more. With the double barrel you spent so much time reloading after every 
 shot it's only good against lone opponents that you know are coming, or when you are using the 
 artifact. Speaking of the artifact, it is probably one of the better features of ROE and is actually 
 really fun. Hell time should make for some really good screen shots.
  
  The new monsters are nothing special either. There are "The Vulgar" which are basically pumped 
 up imps with blue projectiles. Then there are these giant things with tv's for mouths that shoot 
 rockets like nobodies business . . . . . . . that you'll see on about 4 occasions. The lost souls 
 have been made to look like the one's from Doom 2 but I preferred the look the had in Doom 3 as 
 in ROE they just look kind of cheesy.
  The expansion does feature 4 bosses, the first 3 of them look like mutilated Hell Knights. The 
 first boss is actually more of an irritating tutorial for the "grabber" gun which bothered me. 
 The 3rd was just too easy and the 3rd was just boring since he just did the same thing over, and 
 over, and over . . . . . (hint: go on to the slightly raised platform, since it's only up 3 steps 
 he can't seem to walk over to you for some reason) .
  
  As for gameplay in ROE, it has been left mostly the same. The artifact allows for some interesting 
 moments but other then that its the same as in Doom 3. However with even less cut scenes to break 
 up the action and less audio logs and e-mails the game gets repetitive and predictable much faster. 
 They were obviously aiming to up the amount of action and there isn't much downtime for the player. 
 However I found the game much harder then Doom 3 and I spent more time reloading my game then I 
 would have liked to, Hell in particular. The second area of hell is insanely hard, you have to 
 use the artifact and it's still insanely hard.
  And as far as multiplayer is concerned . . . . . . . . . . who buys a doom game for multiplayer?
 
  
  I don't need to go into sound or visuals since they are excellent. The level design is very linear 
 but interesting enough so it does not bother you. 
  
  On a technical note, I could run Doom 3 just fine on my rig but I found that ROE took serous dips 
 in frame rate for reasons unknown. Even after taking steps like shutting down my anti virus and 
 spyware, defragging the HD, and deleting the temp internet files and cookies fighting the lass 
 boss was kind of a slide show, so keep that in mind if you are thinking about getting it.
  
  All and all, ROE is obviously a must have doom for any hardcore Doom fan. If you played Doom 
 3 and loved it or thought it was too slow or hated going though other peoples files for locker 
 codes then this expansion is for you. For those that played Doom 3 and thought it was ok or didnt 
 like it due to lack of story or predictable gameplay you arent missing out on too much so save 
 your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 2, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil is generally what you would expect of an expansion pack. The good 
 news is, its a lot more of the same action that made up Doom 3. The bad news is, its a lot more 
 of the same action that made up Doom 3. There are some minor improvements, as there should be, 
 but for the most part, this is more of the same. This is not a bad thing, because the action is 
 solid, and the graphics are still great. However, the atmosphere isn't nearly as memorable, and 
 the faults stand out a bit more. At the end of the day though, Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil is 
 easy to recommend for fans of Doom 3.
  
  The two major additions to Resurrection of Evil are the grabber gun and a new artifact. The grabber 
 gun is like the gravity gun in Half-life 2 in just about every way, except that it feels somewhat 
 like a me too feature that isnt as much fun. However, one very cool use for it is that you can 
 now grab fireballs in mid-air and launch them back at imps. This gives you a nice new tactic for 
 fighting them from long range. You can also grab lost souls out of the air, which takes a lot of 
 the annoyance out of fighting them. The environments in Doom 3 arent as interactive as the environments 
 in Half-Life 2 and thus, its not as much fun to play with the grabber gun by picking up objects 
 and launching them at your enemies.
  
  The artifact makes for some nice, albeit unoriginal, additions to the game too. You can recharge 
 the artifact by collecting souls from dead humans that are found throughout the levels. The primary 
 use of the artifact is essentially a form of bullet time. Bullet time has become somewhat of a 
 clich, but its still a nice power-up to have in a pinch when four imps spawn in around you and 
 you have to move fast to stay alive. There are also a few bullet time puzzles, which are somewhat 
 annoying. Later in the game, the artifact gets increased damage and invulnerability.
  
  Doom 3 was a great game, but a lot of its elements wore thin by the end. One of these was the overuse 
 of PDA recordings to convey story elements. Resurrection of Evil essentially gets away from this 
 by watering down the story to keep the action moving. This probably wont bother you. The game 
 still uses the three-number code on each storage locker though (which is always found on PDAs 
 again) . Another of Doom 3s faults was that its action was somewhat repetitive and took place largely 
 in small rooms and cramped corridors. The expansion pack does nothing to fix this. There are still 
 numerous times when you get ambushed in a tight space and you cant dodge or escape your enemies. 
 At that time, your only solution is to switch to your most powerful weapon and hold down the trigger. 
 Its a fault that overwhelmed by Doom 3s atmosphere, but a lot of that atmosphere has worn off, 
 so now the problem stands out further. The expansion pack does throw repetitive enemies at you, 
 but at least they dont spawn as annoyingly as they used to, like right behind you or beside you 
 all the time. 
  
  Resurrection of Evil isnt as tense or scary as the first game, but it still has lots of exciting 
 encounters to blast through. It is noticeably less monotonous than the original game. Unfortunately, 
 the new campaign is over in less than 10 hours, but it does avoid some of the repetitiveness in 
 the middle of the first one. Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil isnt going to revolutionize the genre, 
 but its very solid and has no major flaws. If you own the original game, then you should eventually 
 give this expansion pack a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluelineswinger
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 25, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  In some ways, I think that Resurrection of Evil is something of a throwback to the mission packs 
 of yore. The story elements have been cut down to the bone, the challenge has been increased, and 
 a few of the gripes that players had with the original have been fixed. For an old-school gamer 
 such as myself, who got many a cheap thrill playing thy flesh consumed, this should feel like 
 a lot to rejoice for. However, the new gamer in me feels pampered by the high production values, 
 the immersive story, and strategic depth. So, like all things it is a mixture of good and bad. 
 Let's start with the good.
  
  The new weapons are great. Nerve software added two weapons to Doom 3's existing line-up of weapons: 
 a physics cannon ala half-life 2, and a doubled barrel shotgun ala Doom 2. The physics cannon (called 
 the grabber) operates as players of half-life 2 would expect: point, levitate, and beam. It is 
 more combat oriented than valve's gun, however, because it can be used to grab enemy fireballs 
 right out of the air and fling them back at their owners; A successful shot typically results in 
 a one hit kill. This is great fun, and not as easy as one would think. While an Imp, which always 
 stands straight up, is dead as soon as they wind up their pitch, new enemies, such as Vulgars, 
 hunch over when not throwing and are hard to hit. This makes the grabber next to useless when dealing 
 with multiple enemies and adds gives the game some strategic depth that Doom 3 sorely lacked. However, 
 while this weapon does allow players to take advantage of Doom 3's physics engine, it also demonstrated 
 its limits: while players can lift some objects, much of the environment is still static (such 
 as the endless number of large crates) are as immovable as walls or mountains. This is probably 
 quibbling on my part, however.
  
  If there's one part of the game that I have no quibble about, it's the doubled barrel shotgun, 
 the other weapon added to the expansion. It has a better feel than any of the weapons in the original 
 and is frankly just a hell of a lot of fun to use. It lets off this terrific report when it is 
 fired like a crack of thunder. It is so loud and sounds so powerful that it single-handedly makes 
 up for the underpowered sound of the rest of the games weapons and makes the original shotgun seem 
 lImp by comparison. As gamers would expect, this doesn't come without a price: the weapon can only 
 be fired once before needing to be reloaded, making it a liability when dealing with multiple foes. 
 However, I found it so viscerally satisfying to use that I felt compelled to use it anyway, regardless 
 of the beating it earned me.
  
  The new enemies are great too. The aforementioned Vulgar is something of a super Imp that takes 
 more damage, puts out more punishment, and crawls close to the ground when not attacking, which 
 makes them much harder to hit and a lot more fun to fight. On the other end of the spectrum is 
 a new super enemy called a Bruiser. What is a Bruiser you ask? It is an HR Geiger inspired monstrosity 
 with two rapid fire cannons for arms and more hit points than any non-boss monster. I have some 
 issues with their implementation, but their design is great.
  
  Finally, the level design is also generally much better than that of Doom 3. No more confusingly 
 similar winding hallways. They are replaced by more linear levels, which themselves are more varied 
 in appearance. No more backtracking or confusion, just straight ahead action. Additionally, the 
 game throws far more enemies at you at a time, which leads to some tense firefights and forces 
 you to rely on the games other new addition: the relic.
  
  The Relic is the new token enigmatic device (which is now an official convention for Doom games, 
 I suppose) replacing the Hell Cube from the original. It is fairly straight forward: at any time 
 during the game it can be activated to temporarily provide you with status perks such as Max Payne 
 style "bullet time," quad damage, and eventually invincibility so long as you have ammo for it. 
 What ammo you ask? Human souls! Remember the countless bodies strewn about the Mars base in the 
 original game? Well, now they can be used to charge the relic with powers. Thankfully, they are 
 far more plentiful in the expansion than they were in the original.
  
  However, this doesnt quite work as well as you would hope. The relic can hold three charges at 
 a time and activates all powers at once when used. While this is super-cool for the first half 
 of the game when you only have hell time, but once you get the quad damage ability, it unbalances 
 the game. See that bad-ass pair of Bruisers backed up by a trio of revenants? You will be able 
 to floor them all with a few shots from your machine gun (!) while jacked up on evil. This takes 
 most of the suspense out of many of the games firefights late in the game, just when they should 
 be getting more difficult and tense. For example: you will never run into a Bruiser that you have 
 to fight. Bodies are not scarce and it is simply far easier to use the relic and a single blast 
 from the double barred shotgun. This is unless you run out of souls, which you couldnt possibly 
 if you have the least bit of self-control.
  
  Now on to the bad, and surprisingly some of this emerges from the games mission pack roots: the 
 story is mostly MIA, especially when compared to the one from first game. You will collect few 
 PDAs in this game, and almost none of them will have any audio logs. While some felt this method 
 of storytelling ruined the pace of the first game, I felt it contributed strongly to the claustrophobic 
 atmosphere that pervaded Doom 3. It was as if the game presented you with puzzle at the beginning 
 of the game which you received small pieces of throughout. This culminated to give you an image 
 of a small society coming apart at the seams as their doom slowly became obvious culminating in 
 a feeling of desperation that was delivered in the excellent voice acting. None of this is present 
 in the game. Also, Doom 3 gently eased you into the story and let the atmosphere slowly build through 
 the actionless first half hour of the game. You didnt have any knowledge of what was to come, 
 your only hints coming through the in game action and the occasional cinema. As the game progressed, 
 you felt a sense of excitement, of discovery as your moved closer to your objective. While the 
 Mars base was tedious, you felt like you were on a journey at whose end you knew something awesome 
 awaited (and how wicked was hell when you finally arrived? How terrifying were the decapitated, 
 yet live bodies on the wall in the cyber-demons lair?) . The expansion dispenses with this, throwing 
 you into the action after the opening cinema. This may be fine if all you want is a mission pack, 
 but if you were looking forward to a faithful successor to Doom 3s story, curb your enthusiasm. 
 And let us not skip over that disastrous opening cinema: Resurrection of Evils tone deaf story 
 ruins any anticipation or sense of discovery by not only showing you hell and the transformed Betruger 
 in the first cinema, but also showing you all three bosses in a anti-climactic movie that effectively 
 ruins any anticipation that you could have at your inevitable meeting with them.
  
  This is actually somewhat fitting, as fighting them is kind of anti-climactic. With the exception 
 of the last boss, they all rely on figuring out some trick involving a weapon or the relic and 
 then punishing them accordingly. This makes it a real thrill the first time you fight them, but 
 only a chore every time thereafter.
  
  So this all makes me something of a traitor. The old school gamer in me loves the new visceral 
 additions to the gameplay, but the new gamer in me is bothered by the strategic unbalance and the 
 tone-deaf story. It is ironically fitting that a flawed masterpiece like Doom 3 should also have 
 a flawed but excellent sequel. I should emphasize that the gameplay is much better (if you can 
 keep your hands off the relic too much) than that in the original. The new weapons and monsters 
 add a lot. Hell, it is worth the price of admission just to fire the double barreled shotgun. Now 
 if were possible to take the new weapons and the new enemies and somehow put them in the original, 
 I think we would have the perfect game; As it is, we have two flawed but excellent ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: him42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  For those of you who didn't like Doom 3, don't bother with RoE. For those who enjoyed Doom 3, you 
 owe it to yourself to pick up RoE. While the basic gameplay elements of Doom 3 haven't changed, 
 the experiance in RoE is deeper and more intense. The addition of the grabber and a useful artifact 
 add depth to the gameplay, and there is a good variety of new levels set in different envirnments 
 filled with plenty of monsters and scares. The new enemies in RoE are great additions and some 
 of the creepiest of all Doom 3 enemies. The single player campaign only lasts about 8 hours, but 
 it is very sweet all the way through. Multiplayer has been improved and new maps are availible, 
 so there is still plenty to do once you complete the campaign. Improving upon an already great 
 game, Doom 3: RoE is an excellent expansion that every fan of Doom 3 should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plague32390
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 22, 2005 3:07 am PT
Review:  Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil takes you back to mars where once more daemons are released from hell. (people 
 must be ****ing stupid in the future) This time around the new unnamed marine has a few trick up 
 his sleeve. First the artifact you get helps you control time to get through tough situations where 
 your either low on ammo, low on oxygen, or fighting a boss. iD's answer to the Half Life 2 Gravity 
 Gun, is quite fun to play around with, especially when you can grab all the fire balls thrown at 
 you and send them right back at the demons and let them have a taste of their own medicine. The 
 double barrel shotgun comes back and its better then ever. The story is pretty basic, the game 
 is standard run and gun (if it isnt broke, dont fix it) , no real improvements have been made in 
 the graphics engine (like it needs to be anyways) . The only problem is that its short, I mean it 
 took me 15 hours to complete the game. All in all though, its a nice little expansion not to disappoint 
 anyone that was a fan of Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3's first expansion, Resurrection of Evil, comes 8 months after the mildly acclaimed, revamped 
 conventional shooter from the now legendary id development team, boasting again a creepy atmosphere. 
 Mission done = this add-on is a professionally made comeback, displaying new, varied levels of 
 corridor shooting in a story set 2 years later, in 2147. Dr Elizabeth McNeil leads a UAC team of 
 scientists with marines as security. She's fierce and savvy, herself looking half marine ( with 
 a toiled white skirt...) . You play as a different marine; presumably the original character stayed 
 on Earth. All Hell breaks loose again, thanks to another artifact triggered - some kind of mystical 
 steampunk-like pounding heart. Said artifact is a truly overpowered weapon you carry all the game, 
 particularly helpful when confronting the three big demons as boss battles ( neat special effects 
 at 10 fps when you get the reward ) , of course at the end against the flying Betruger ( more on 
 that below ) , and also during some crowded sequences involving biggies such as HellKnights, Muncubus, 
 et all.
  
  Gameplay wise, the implementation of the new artifact is a success story. The new demons, the double 
 barreled shotgun quite useful mid-game, and a more concentrated spawning pattern are indeed new 
 upgrades christened into a conventional construct preeminently focused on the best parts of the 
 older mechanics from the 90s, just like Doom 3. Strangely though, this new spawning pattern of 
 enemies at the very beginning of many areas, for longer walk in the parks inbetween compared to 
 the previous campaign, can be considered as a drawback by some. Yet, this is undoubtedly a logical 
 Doom 3 reshuffled, again king of the hill of the special effects propelled by the powerful engine. 
 Shadows and lighting addicts, you can't miss this. If you have a good PC....
  
  Speaking of which, yes, the beast is laggy even on high end machines. More than the original - 
 for probably being the very first PC title requiring a 512 mb video card to run it at the highest 
 settings. True, some scenes - even indoor - are larger, wider, like a beautiful plasma reactor, 
 many hangars full of flashing lights, you know the black and red kaleidoscope. It doesn't take 
 more than a few minutes to overload a 128 mb card at high textures.
  
  Evidently, the challenge provided relies on a different pattern here, for an uneven experience 
 from start to finish: the overall difficulty calibration is now unbalanced, next to Doom 3's equally 
 ''medium on the easy side''. RoE offers lots of walk in the park alongside big brawls, relatively 
 on the easy side too when mastering the artifact accordingly. Miss your opportunity, you're in 
 a world of hurt. Slow time effects are now common in games, still here their integration in this 
 case via the artifact is flawless if not superb. Finally when you reach Betruger at the end, you 
 meet a very hard challenge almost frustrating to the average player, compared to the affordable 
 campaign. Those meteor showers.... Clearly the developers listened to the fans having complained 
 about the original bosses being too easy, and they were. Now we're on the other side of the balance. 
 Really, the Hell level is beautifully crafted, yet aside this ( too much ) endless final battle 
 and the pillar scene, the last level is EMPTY.
  
  Audio is exactly the same quality, as well as the multiplayer quality content offered, destined 
 to fortunate PC geeks owning ultra fast machines required for smooth online play. Maps are underwhelming, 
 though frantic to play.
  
  In short, Doom 3: RoE delivers exceedingly well just what it's designed for, the most professionally 
 we could have hoped without any revolution. The single player campaign is of good length for an 
 expansion ( 10-12 hours of gameplay ) , albeit showing aforementioned uneven shortcomings. Can you 
 tackle the beast ? Oh, monster closets are scarce now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bat249
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2005 6:50 am PT
Review:  this game hase some good light and and sound but this is the best fps of the year so this
  gos whit saying that game is a maysing i love the old doom shotgun but the double barrle shot gun 
 oh it brsing back memroys so lets talk about game play. the enamy are in so much detal and the 
 way their anomaison move from frame to frame it is good .the weapons nice varyaty so it give you 
 a sinces of doom3 but what you got to is that it
  stuck to its roots oh iam going to give that code now during the game bering up the console and 
 type pm_thirdperson 1 to go to third person mode or type pm_thirdperson 0
  to go back to fps mode and dont worry i have testd it my self so to the doom fan kill the 
  demoms 
 game hard guys game hard
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2005 2:42 am PT
Review:  I have only played the game for about an hour, but I have to say that I think it is a pretty cool 
 add on pack. Remember back in the day when you would get giddy about the add on pack? Things like 
 the Duke Nukem series? That is exactly what this reminds me of. The story is kind of hokey, like 
 in the original, but fun nonetheless. The new Imps remind me of the ALIENS movie creatures. The 
 graphics are top notch once again and the action is full blast. If you are a Doom fan, you will 
 definitely want to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thug_engel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 17, 2005 5:18 am PT
Review:  Doom series redifined the 1st person shooting genre. Resurrection of Evil is the best doom game 
 out there. It has all the classic and new doom elements which makes the game fun to play. Most 
 people complain that Doom 3 has no story and its a mindless shooter, well it is kinda true but 
 thats what doom games have been from the start, guns monsters and just plain ass fun. If your one 
 of those people who just play games for fun than this game is worth a play.
  
  Graphics wise its the best lookin thing outhere. There are some really tiny bugs and glitches but 
 overall the game has a terrific cinematic feel to it. 
  
  Sound wise the game is really nice but its not that good compared to the other titles on the market 
 like Half life 2. You have to pump up the volume to hear all the things clearly and the sound quality 
 is not that good.
  
  The game is a linear shooter. There are no puzzles, no characters to rescue or stuff like that. 
 You grab a shotgun, open the door and blow the monsters brains out. The expansion pack introduces 
 some new weapons like double barrel shotgun and the grabber gun ( which is not exactly what it sounds 
 like) . DB shotgun is the favourite one here. The Grabber on the other hand is a rip off of the 
 gravity gun from the HL 2. All you can do with it is deflect fire balls comin at you towards ur 
 enemy, which is hell lota fun.
  
  Overall this a great game and if u liked doom games then its a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sireph
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 10, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I originally installed Doom 3 to test my computer's capabilities, but I got to playing, and really 
 enjoyed it. When Doom 3 ended, I was a little sorry that it was over, especially with Betruger 
 flying around like he owns the place, (I don't like him!)
  When I saw the first screen shots and learned a little about how the expansion was going to play, 
 I thought it sounded really fun, and different for an expansion. I had really hoped that Doom 3 
 Reurrection of evil would place players in thos mysterious alien temples from regular Doom 3, but 
 after the first stage I felt like I was going back in time into Doom 3 right until the very last 
 stage. This expansion really does not feel like anything new, (even though it is just an expansion) . 
 I flet like it just combined random patterns, and stages together to make new ones, only this time 
 the stages seem a bit more spacious, and leave this Doom guy open to just about every sort of attack 
 from familiar demons from Doom 3. There are only a dozen levels in the entire game, and with your 
 trusted new shinier shotgun, artifact, and grabber, you can blast away enemies heads off with ease, 
 and litteraly grab Cherubs and hurl them at other enemies, guaranteed to kill at least the Cherub 
 instantly, which for someone who hates them as much as I do, it is really... soothing. It would 
 be wrong for just about every Doom fan to not buy this one, but just don't go into it expecting 
 too much like I did, because you will be dsappointed. There are seven new monsters; Betruger jammed 
 down maledicts throat, the three hell hunter bosses who are basically Hellknights with different 
 elements, strange faces, and one has missing limbs. Of course you know the vulgar, the Bruiser 
 demon, and the lost soul with the different skin and the horns. (There is a mod right here on Gamespot 
 that can do almost the same thing with the lost soul, only without the horns.) I feel like even 
 the demons in Doom 3 Resurrection of evil are just recycled from the original Doom 3 exept for 
 the Vulgar, and Bruiser. There are mods out there that can really give you a new Doom 3 experience 
 that is just about as innovative, new, and good as Resurrection of evil's. What it all comes down 
 to is that Doom 3 Resurrection of evil is recycles almost everything from the original Doom 3, 
 and leaves you wanting more when it is all over, but it is definately entertaining, and therefore 
 worth playing if you have the original. I would like to say that I like the new Doom guy, but it 
 is my opinion that that this guy looks kind of dumb, and oblivious to the chaos around him, as 
 opposed to the original Doom guy that I though looked pretty cool, serious, alert, and sometimes 
 even a little scared. If you ask me, this one even looks a little bit like the coach from Beavis 
 and Butt head. This game is short and sweet as long as you expect it to be, and it is certainly 
 true that the new grabber is more than just another advanced weapon that is carelully put together 
 to cause your enemy more pain, but it really is fun to see how you can kill old foes using the 
 grabber, and your new power of slowing down time, which can be very useful when fighting a Mancubus 
 who can shoot fire balls at you very quickly. You can grab the plasma/fire that the enemy shoots 
 at you, and just send it right back to it in less than a second. The grabber also allows more experienced 
 players to get creative with their enemies.
  It's worth playing, even though it is a little disapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheN00binator
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 9, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Well I never was a big fan of Doom 3. I found it to be quite tedious to play at times. But if there 
 is one thing that could make me dislike the Doom series even more, it was to make Doom 3 Resurrection 
 Of Evil. Not only have they taken away the little fun Doom 3 had, but thrown in some incredibly 
 annoying creatures, and a new 'gun' that has very little use at all.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Put simply, this game is boring. There is no excitement to be had here, no tension. The devs obviously 
 thought the game would be more fun if they threw in a very undoom-ish ammount of enemys around 
 every single corner. Well really all this does is takes away doom 3's scare factor. I counted exactly 
 3 times during the ENTIRE game where I 'jumped' in ROE. Unlike in Doom 3 where I jumped every few 
 minutes as something charged at me.
  Some of the new enemys are very annoying too. There are these new flying skull things which are 
 similar to the ones in doom 3. But this time - if you see 1, you can guarantee another 10 will 
 be nearby. They fly at you very fast, every one of them hitting you at once. This makes your screen 
 shake uncontrollably, making it almost impossible to shoot them, except out of luck. Very annoying.
 
  Also, you will find that within the first 20 mins or so, you have already picked up the artifact, 
 pistol, grabber, machine gun, and shotgun. Which leaves little to look forward to later into the 
 game except the cheesy chaingun (which sounds utterly terrible) , and a few other weapons all seen 
 before in D3. The only other weapon I can think of that hasnt been seen before is the double barrelled 
 shotgun, which is easily the best weapon in the game.
  It would be a good idea to elaborate more on the grabber too. This 'gun' can pick up hardly any 
 object at all, and is really only usefull for throwing enemys projectiles back at them. It takes 
 about the same time to switch to the grabber as the enemys takes to hit you though, so it holds 
 little use.
  The game is also quite short. I completed it in about 6 hours tops.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Of course, even I cannot deny that Doom 3 ROE looks superb. Real time lighting 
 looks are real treat in this game, and most textures are quite sharp and realistic. I do not think 
 it deserved the "10" score it got from most reviewers though. Some of the models for humans look 
 a little out of date, and there certainly are at least SOME blurry textures in the game. Im not 
 going to completely bash the graphics though - They do look great.
  
  Sound:
  
  Most sounds in the game are acceptable. The environment noises and moans and groans issued by the 
 zombies sounded good. Some of the weapon sounds however, are very cheesy. The chaingun in particular, 
 sounds rather terrible, as I mentioned before. It makes a very unconvincing "phut-phut-phut" sound, 
 which reminded me forcefully of someone farting.
  The other weapons also sound underpowered and feeble. Except maybe the shotgun, which gave a quite 
 realistic and loud bang that I, in spite of myself, was impressed with.
  
  __
  
  Overall, im deeply UNimpressed with this game. It felt like I was playing a mediocre mod most of 
 the time. It turned very boring and annoying after the first few levels, and has absolutely no 
 replayability at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenbenpang04
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2005 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I played Half Life 2, the graphics of HL 2 is unbelievable; and I think Doom 3 RE's graphics is 
 nearly perfect! (The graphics is same as Doom 3) I am using the GeForce FX5200 display card, that 
 is certainly not a good card for gaming, but I can still run this game well, great performance, 
 and excellent graphics! My card could run games with excellent graphics like Chronicles of Riddick, 
 but performance is bad, very choppy. So I reckon this game's graphics is top notch.
  For the gameplay, it won't disappoint you if you've enjoyed Doom 3, and if you like run and gun. 
 However I don't like this, because there is hardly any AI. And the game is short, the expansion 
 has only 1 cd, despite from this, it is a good expansion while they added things. 
  The multiplayer is lame, although it added a few more types of mp games. If you want to buy this 
 game for multiplayer, I don't think it's worht it.
  This is a masterpiece of FPS, so don't miss it. At least you should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teuvan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  If you have any Interest in the Doom series, you must get this. Even if you didn't like Doom 3 
 there is a good chance that you will love this. Most expansions simply add a few new weapons and 
 a hand full of enemies, but this one not only does that but makes massive improvements on the original 
 game.
  
  The expansion takes place two years after the events of Doom 3. The U. A. C, in an act of infinite 
 wisdom, decides to pick up the Mars project again. You play as a different marine this time. But 
 don't worry, he shares the characteristics of the original Doomguy. The action starts right away. 
 You will start to notice the differences between it and Doom 3 almost immediately. Everything from 
 the map design to the story is an improvement over Doom 3.
  
  There are three new weapons added to the game. The Grabber, the Artifact, and the double-barreled 
 shotgun. The Grabber is similar to the gravity gun in Half-Life 2; but is more effective as a weapon. 
 One of the most useful things about it is that you can catch fireballs and throw them back at the 
 enemy. The Artifact is probably the most useful of the three new weapons. It gains a new ability 
 after each boss fight, but I'll let you discover what they are for yourself. And then finally there 
 is the double-barrel shotgun. It takes two ammo per shot and you have to reload after each shot, 
 but it is worth it. The only original weapon that doesn't appear is the chainsaw. But don't worry; 
 you won't miss it.
  
  The new creatures are all great additions. There are 6 new enemies plus all of the originals. Lost 
 Souls now look like the ones in Doom 2, but they are still basically the same. You may notice a 
 few mini-games in the form of arcade machines as well. They are surprisingly fun and a good way 
 to take a quick break from the main game. While the game is much shorter than Doom 3, the quality 
 more than makes up for the length. It is also considerably more difficult than Doom 3. The multiplayer 
 has received quite an upgrade as well. There are new game types, a higher player cap, and quite 
 a few other enhancements. Overall, if you own Doom 3 then this is definitely worth getting. Hell, 
 it is worth getting Doom 3 just for this if you have to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2005 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Remember the original doom games? You'd walk into a room that looked fairly empty, and all of a 
 sudden a few walls would shoot open and bundles of former humans would come out at you. Well, Resurrection 
 of Evil is just like that.
  
  RoE takes the formula that made Doom 3 so great, and throws in a few hints of what made the old 
 school doom games so much fun - lots of bad guys in your face, and more popping out of nowhere 
 after you get done killing the others. It also brings back the double barelled shotgun, adds a 
 new gravity gun similar to HL2s, and sports a few new demons that should do a great job of scaring 
 the bajesus out of you the first time you see them.
  
  Replacing the Soul Cube, Nerve has implemented another artifact which essentailly grants you bullet 
 time like super speed. As you progress, it also makes you do more damage, and eventually not take 
 damage at all. There's nothing too amazing about it, but it really helps during the fights with 
 the zounds of demons you'll encounter this time around - which generally come in packs much larger 
 then those in the previous Doom title. Instead of charging off of kills like the Soul Cube did, 
 it consumes the souls of still human corpses you come across, charging up for a maximum of three 
 uses in a row.
  
  Doom 3 RoE feels like much more like the original Doom then Doom 3 did, but may come at the price 
 of heftier system requirements, so make sure your system can handle it. (And trust me, the minimum 
 requirements is no way to play Doom 3, you want full shadow support and all the effects available, 
 preferably with some AA filtering too.)
  
  I have yet to play the multiplayer, but its a component that doesnt really matter much to me anyway 
 - Im playing RoE for the amazing single player experience, alone in the dark, screaming like a 
 little girl. And boy is it fun. If you liked the last Doom title, you'll love its new expansion 
 pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerofc3
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 6, 2005 5:13 am PT
Review:  Personally I wasn't a big fan of Doom 3. The lack of substance to the game really let me down. 
 I'm more used to shooters like Halo, and SW Republic Commando where you feel like you're part of 
 something, not this one man vs the world type game that Doom 3 embodies. Resurrection of Evil is 
 no different in this regard, but rather than wasting time the game gets right to point. Within 
 the first 10 minutes you'll have 1/2 your arsenal, and you'll need it. They removed many of the 
 more annoying enemies such as the spiders, baby demons, and imps, and replaced them with more challenging 
 opponents. 
  
  Doom3 RE also allows you to do combat with more foes in larger, more difinative locations, which 
 in my opinion was Doom3's biggest weakness. 
  
  But remember this is an expansion pack so don't expect a long life span. I beat the game in under 
 5 hours. It was fun, but I don't think I'll be playing it again for awhile. Since it was only $30 
 I'm not complaining. It was entertaining on my day off. 
  
  The graphics are still top notch, and the game isn't so dark. You still need your flashlight, but 
 maybe 1/10th of the time that you did in the original. 
  
  The sound is great, but not much has changed from the original.
  
  The originality of the game 
 is lacking, big time. The AI is VERY predictable (I actually doubt there is AI.) And you don't 
 get to fight along side anyone. For some reason once again you're the only one to survive. 
  
  The boss fights were the highlight though. You have to use alot of tactics to beat them. Although 
 the fact that the grabber gun is needed to kill all of them is a bit lame. As for the final boss... 
 I was very disappointed. While very cool looking, the Boss uses the same lame tactics over and 
 over again. I eventually became so good at dodging his attacks I didn't get hit for the rest of 
 the battle. 
  
  Conclusion: All in all it's a fun expansion. Don't expect anything different from the original 
 Doom3. If you were a major fan of Doom3 you'll love this expansion. If you hated Doom3 and are 
 hoping that they made major improvements on it in Doom3 RE... don't waste your time because it's 
 more of the same.
  
  It seems apparent to me that companies that did well making games 5 or 6 years ago and earlier 
 just don't know how to make a good game for today's standards. AI is of absolute importance, large 
 explorable areas, a good story line, HUMOR, great soundtrack, and innovative combat controls are 
 all a must now a days, but unfortunately Doom3 carries none of these traits. It could have been 
 a good game if Id software knew how to make games for the 21st century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -UO-zenmaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2005 1:57 am PT
Review:  I think with this expansion ID was striving to eliminate the game-play and design mistakes made 
 in the first run of Doom 3. They expanded on the enviornments in terms of y-axis play meaning more 
 stares and ledges (and hazards) . This makes it allot more fun in my opinion and expands the visual 
 quality by making the levels more creative. One of the weaknesses in Doom 3's gameplay vs. newer 
 games such as Half-life 2 was the lack of interaction with the environmental objects and settings. 
 This is remedied in a very satisfying way by introducing the grabber. A anti-gravity object manipulator 
 which lets you levitate energy and light weight objects and hurrel them at any thing that you want.
 
  
  ID also removed the presence of trap doors which let demons jump out from behind you in a very 
 un creative and unrealistic way. Now demons ither teliport into the area of bust through a wall 
 and swing at you.
  
  I also like the pace of this story line a little better and the characters are a little less generic. 
 The main guy is brutal looking and look like hell is where he goes for breakfast.
  
  PS Don't forget the improved and expanded multi-player... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberFreak81
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2005 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Being a respectful DOOM fan, since the age of 11, this game is hard to put down. But, really there 
 is no reason to. Not only is the game just as good as DOOM 3; but, it's even better. Stop your 
 whining about the flashlight! :P :) 
  The intro was amazing, and the first couple of seconds in the game, you're already on the edge 
 of your seat. But, after seeing the intro, you'll know what I mean. 
  This game although it isn't the same as classic DOOM, as even a better feel of the "Ancient Evil 
 Temples" we've grown to love and fear so much.
  If you want a game GET THIS ONE! If you dont have the first one, GET THAT ONE TOO. 
  Pure Awesomeness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirkmalta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Since the first time I laid my eyes on Doom 3, I could not believe graphics would reach that level 
 so fast.
  For all who finished Doom 3 with unanswered questions wont be that surprised with how this one 
 ends.
  Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil makes it clear that Id Software knows how to use their new engine 
 capabilities to the maximum. With new effects and gameplay, including the Grabber gun, which 
 although is not as fun as Half Life 2s, will surely be helpful to battle some of the enemies.
 
  Another really cool effect is how your hands transform to undead, zombie like when you select 
 the Hearth Artifact.
  Given all its praise for Graphics and Sound, the Expansion Pack for Doom 3 is SHORT.
  I finished 
 this game way under 10 hours of play the first time through.
  The game also has no replay ability what so ever.
  
  However, for all Doom 3 fans, this game 
 is definitely one to pick 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  First of all the bad press this game has gotten is partly right and wrong.. Singleplayer immersses 
 you in battle just as well as any other game but multiplayer is something else.
  The graphics are awesome and so is the sound just the singleplayer alone is worth the cost.
  
 This game will stay on my computer for quite sometime and will be a part of my clan/Tem at www. lUSAl. com
 
  If your looking for on the edge of your seat excitement look no further its a great game that 
 will keep you going for hours.
  People that like FPS will do the game over and over and those that do not will take it off there 
 computers. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
