-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Doom 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/doom3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  4, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.7, 95 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 16,149 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: id Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Aug 3, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While not as remarkable as the technology that fuels it, the game itself is put together well enough 
 to make Doom 3 legitimately great, all things considered. 

  Extremely impressive from a technical standpoint yet behind the times from a first-person-shooter 
 design standpoint: This is the dichotomy that is Doom 3, the long-awaited sequel from well-known 
 Texas-based developer id Software. Doom 3 is quite possibly the best-looking game ever, thanks 
 to the brand-new 3D graphics engine used to generate its convincingly lifelike, densely atmospheric, 
 and surprisingly expansive environments. At the same time, when you look past the spectacular appearance, 
 you'll find a conventional, derivative shooter. In fact, if you played the original Doom or its 
 sequel back in the mid '90s (or any popular '90s-era shooter, for that matter) , you may be shocked 
 by how similarly Doom 3 plays to those games. The legions of id Software's true believers will 
 celebrate this straightforwardness as being deliberately "old school," especially since Doom 3 
 is packed with direct references to its classic predecessors. However, the truth of the matter 
 is that Doom 3's gameplay structure and level design are behind the times and very much at odds 
 with the game's cutting-edge, ultrarealistic looks. Yet the quality of the presentation truly is 
 remarkable -- enough so that it overwhelms Doom 3's occasional problems.  

          There's no debating one thing about Doom 3: It looks absolutely, positively phenomenal. 
     

  Doom 3 is essentially a remake of the original Doom, though series fans will find reimagined versions 
 of almost every monster from both Doom and Doom II in the new sequel. You play as a nameless, voiceless 
 22nd-century space marine called by the Union Aerospace Corporation to its Mars research facility 
 beset with mysterious problems -- the forces of hell, to be exact. You'll end up single-handedly 
 fighting back legions of hellspawn using weapons like shotguns, machine guns, and rocket launchers. 
 As in the classic Doom games, your foes here are liable to strike at any time -- often just as you 
 round a corner, grab a much-needed power-up, or set foot into a new area. So, while your enemies 
 will materialize without notice, and may occasionally startle you as they leap out of the darkness, 
 Doom 3 cannot easily be described as scary or suspenseful. On the contrary, it's very predictable, 
 and more or less it just goes through the same types of paces that you've probably gone through 
 before in any number of other similar games.  

  Over the course of the game, you'll fight your way through a series of linear levels filled with 
 locked doors, and you'll gradually find new weapons and occasionally meet new types of monsters. 
 Early on, your apparent goal is to meet up with your squad, but as you might expect, you'll never 
 actually get to fight alongside any human forces (no thanks to the omission of a co-op mode for 
 multiple players, which was a signature element of past Doom games) . Despite the game's cinematic 
 trappings, it follows a formula that generally lacks drama or tension. Occasionally, the game presents 
 to you a shocking or surprising scene -- a hallucination or some hellish, otherworldly image. These 
 moments are effective, but are too few and far between in the context of a single-player shooter 
 that's of above-average length (somewhere between 15 to 20 hours) . Fortunately, the campaign definitely 
 picks up during the last several hours, once you finally reach (and keep going past) the point 
 when you confront the enemy on its own turf. Getting to that point may be your primary motivation 
 for trudging through some of the repetitive middle portions of the game, though.  

  Part of the issue is that Doom 3's storyline and narrative technique are ineffectual. Since the 
 main character has no identity whatsoever (for whatever reason) , the game tries to get you interested 
 in everyone  else  on the base. You'll frequently find voice recordings and e-mail from various 
 characters, but not only is a lot of this stuff bone dry, having to stop and read or stand around 
 and listen to a rambling monologue jarringly disrupts the flow of the action. Unfortunately, if 
 you choose to focus on the action by ignoring the seemingly extraneous story elements, you'll find 
 that some of them aren't optional -- you'll need to sift through those e-mails and listen to some 
 of those voice recordings to get passcodes for locked doors and storage chests.  

  For what it's worth, the game's premise seems very fleshed out, and the game gives an amazing first 
 impression. As you explore the UAC base, eavesdropping on various conversations and observing great, 
 little details here and there, you'll get the impression that Doom 3 takes place in a fully realized 
 world. Of course, all hell quickly breaks loose, and from that point onward you'll encounter scarce 
 few creatures that you won't want to instantly shoot. The premise of the game will continue to 
 unfold through occasional cutscenes and the aforementioned e-mails and recordings.  

          Don't expect the actual gameplay to be as cutting edge as the visuals; Doom 3 plays like 
 shooters from the good, old days.     

  Since Doom 3 purports to have a plausible premise, suddenly, aspects of the game that you might 
 not normally question will start to stick out as being annoyingly inconsistent. You'll undoubtedly 
 find time to wonder about these logic gaps as you fight throughout the UAC base, especially if 
 you've played other recent first-person shooters that do a better job of justifying their plots. 
 Why would a 22nd-century space marine be sent into action in a darkly lit area without night vision 
 goggles of some sort, or even a helmet? Why wouldn't any of his weapons have light-amplification 
 modules built into them when even today's weapons frequently do? Why, instead, is he stuck carrying 
 around a very weak flashlight with unlimited battery life? Why is he unable to hold a gun and the 
 flashlight at the same time? Why are the UAC's small, spiderlike sentry drones so incredibly powerful? 
 You'll see these helpful little guys rip through droves of hellspawn even faster than you can. 
 If the base's defenses are so tough, then why is everyone so worried, and why is everyone getting 
 killed? Doom 3's central gameplay conceit simply doesn't fit in with the premise of the game, and 
 this is a problem only because Doom 3 chooses to try to make you feel like you're in a believable, 
 fully realized world. Doom-inspired shooters, such as Serious Sam and Painkiller, wisely followed 
 the classic game's arcadelike nature by never even purporting to be plausible and simply focusing 
 on run-and-gun action. So it's ironic that Doom 3's ambitions to be a story-driven game mostly 
 just end up getting in the way and weakening the overall experience.     

  As mentioned, Doom 3 is pervasively dark; there's rarely a moment when your entire field of vision 
 isn't predominantly shrouded in thick, black shadow. This contributes heavily to Doom 3's creepy, 
 claustrophobic feel and it does indeed give the gameplay a distinctive quality. However, the constant 
 extremely dark settings conspire with the frequently repetitive level design to contribute to gameplay 
 that can often feel monotonous, especially since the action itself is very straightforward. What's 
 more, the game's levels will occasionally require you to backtrack through dark hallways without 
 clear markings, so rather than constantly blasting monsters, you may end up spending an undue amount 
 of time just trying to get your bearings. There's a sizable arsenal of weapons to be found here, 
 but none of them are completely satisfying to use. Pretty much all the guns are direct-fire, point-and-shoot 
 weapons with no alternate firing modes and no close-range melee attacks; they do look impressive 
 onscreen, but they all sound surprisingly tinny and subdued, rather than loud and powerful.  

 
          Stifling darkness lends Doom 3 much of its atmosphere as well as much of its challenge. 
     

  Meanwhile, the game's few melee weapons are mostly useless (though the chainsaw is at least fun 
 to use) . The grenades and the rocket launcher are liable to damage you just as much as they will 
 damage your foes, since most of the game's battles occur at close range. Most modern shooters now 
 seek to balance their weapons such that different tactical circumstances call for different measures, 
 but Doom 3 takes the old "bigger is better" approach, for the most part. The main consideration 
 in deciding which weapon to use at any given moment will be how much ammunition you have remaining, 
 and to its credit, Doom 3 forces you to be pretty conservative with your ammo -- you'll often feel 
 the need to make every shot count. Furthermore, your marine has no special abilities to speak of. 
 He can move about fairly quickly, he can jump about two feet high, he can crouch, he can sprint, 
 and he can carry every weapon at once, but that's it; don't expect him to be able to lie prone 
 or lean around corners or anything like that. This isn't that kind of game.  

  This also isn't the kind of game in which you should expect to be fighting against ruthlessly intelligent 
 foes. Some of the former human marines you'll face will use rudimentary tactics against you, and 
 other foes at least do a fairly good job of giving chase if you try to flee from them. But, in 
 general, your enemies follow the same sorts of predictable patterns that you may remember from 
 previous Doom games. By the halfway point of the game, you'll have little trouble avoiding your 
 enemies' attacks when directly confronting them, so you'll instead be concentrating on predicting 
 the expected ambushes around every corner. Also, one of the drawbacks of Doom 3's richly detailed 
 graphics is that you'll rarely face more than a few foes at a time, and as you kill them, their 
 bodies instantly disintegrate into ash -- which is a nice effect, but also the same effect for just 
 about every foe you kill. It's disappointing that the colorful death animations and seas of monster 
 corpses from past Doom games are nowhere to be found here (though, in exchange, you'll pass through 
 countless corridors chock-full of smeared blood and human remains) .  

  As a result of all of the above -- the predictable level design and enemies, and the simple-but-effective 
 weapons arsenal -- Doom 3 does not turn out to be particularly challenging, at least at the normal 
 difficulty setting. Actually, the main reason for this is because, as in many other shooters, you 
 can quicksave your progress virtually instantly and at any time. The creepy atmosphere and frequent 
 ambushes will likely cause you to use this option more often than you need it, and as a result, 
 the game's suspense and tension is further mitigated. Limited save systems in shooters often meet 
 with great resistance from certain players, but Doom 3 is a game that probably would have benefited 
 from one. As it stands, shooter veterans shouldn't have any problem blasting their way through 
 the game at the middle difficulty setting (at least up until near the end, anyway) , and they should 
 therefore consider the hardest available setting for their first attempt. "Nightmare" difficulty 
 is unlocked after you finish the game, and in it, your health constantly dwindles down toward a 
 danger zone, which means most players aren't going to find it much fun.  

          The game's got a fairly big arsenal of weapons, but none of them, except maybe the chainsaw, 
 are all that much fun to use.     

  So what makes Doom 3 special if it's just a basic corridor crawl in which you shoot anything that 
 moves? For one thing, the foes you'll face -- while not terribly smart -- are a decidedly impressive 
 and wonderfully animated lot. Doom diehards will recognize most all their old nightmarish favorites, 
 and will spot a number of vicious-looking new ones. Sometimes your only tip-off to the presence 
 of enemies will be their gleaming orange eyes peering at you through the darkness, which is another 
 great touch. Most enemies have both ranged and melee attacks, and when they hit you, your perspective 
 will often shake violently as blood fills your field of vision, disorienting you and making you 
 feel like, well, some demon from hell just hit you in the face. Interestingly, this effect is more 
 pronounced the less health you have, which makes for some nerve-racking firefights.  

  Also, the stifling darkness of the game  does  work to good effect during most of the battles. 
 As you explore with your flashlight in hand, you'll suddenly hear the chilling groans and growls 
 of nearby foes, so you'll switch to your weapon of choice and whirl about trying to find signs 
 of movement. The action unfolds quickly and violently. Enemies will often lurch right at you, giving 
 you a clear shot of (and a clear shot at) their ghastly physiques. That is to say, what Doom 3's 
 battles lack in complexity, they make up for in visceral thrills. Even after you've fought countless 
 imps and other demons, you'll still be impressed by some of your close encounters with them.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1028 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: StealthKing93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 3:55 pm PT
Review:  A real great game, in fact it's the best out of the Doom series. It has some real nice spooks in 
 the game, and it will make you jump out of your chair! the graphics are real nice as with the gore 
 in the game. I have played this game since it came out and I still haven't beat it! It is a tough 
 game, and it requires exploring and gathering things to get to the next level (PDA's, guns, etc.) 
 It has an awesome multiplayer and people still play it to this day! You have to play this game, 
 and beat it on nightmare before you go on to any other Doom game! The sad thing is, I never understood 
 the story and Doom 3 is not very friendly with deaf and hard of hearing gamers. There are NO subtitles 
 in this game and if you are deaf/hard of hearing like me it would be impossible to understand what 
 people are saying or understand the story. The only problem with Doom 3, is no subtitles and it's 
 the worst part, not understanding a great story from an awesome game.
  
  I hope I. D. will have subtitles in their next Doom, if they don't I highly doubt I will even purchase 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Screamer201
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 3:40 am PT
Review:  DOOM 3 is a game of opposites. It's simultaneously innovative and derivative, and it's a really 
 great game. Doom 3 is retelling the story from the original Doom. You play as a unnamed marine who 
 just arrived on mars after you get the Pda Sergeant Kelly is giving you the order to find a missing 
 scientist. After you find it the Hell Begins. The presentation of DOOM 3's world and story keeps 
 you hooked. As far as the game's structure is concerned, DOOM 3 could essentially be split up into 
 three acts. For the first six or seven levels of the game, you're pretty much in the dark, both 
 literally in the halls of the UAC facility as well as with respect to the game's story. Most of 
 the time, you'll be getting the hang of switching between your flashlight and your shotgun, which 
 can take out most early enemies with a well-placed shot at close range and the levels themselves 
 are fairly easy to navigate. The combat its the best you can get in games like this. The game will 
 not be scary or disturbing like Silent Hill but you'll likely feel every bit on edge as the former 
 inhabitants of the UAC base. Despite some structural similarities to Half-Life the game is very 
 good and if you didn`t play it i suggest to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikebeza
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2009 7:29 am PT
Review:  The game Doom 3 is a first person shooter that has some scary **** hardcore **** and cool story 
 its about demons zombies and souls take over a marine base on Mars.
  
  The Maps are O. K but on most levels your in doors but thats because your on Mars and you can't 
 Breath but there are some points were you go outside and you have an oxygen bar but indoors theres 
 usually something to keep you going like magma explosions or laser guns.
  
  There is a doom 3 Resurrection that continues one of the boss fights at the end and has new weapons 
 like the gravity gun or double barrelled shotgun Pretty pissy when you can't fight the final battle 
 without out buying a sequel but the original doom 3 is a good game and I advise it. There is some 
 pretty cool guns on it like Rocket launcher ,Shotgun ,Plasmagun and more but nothing is more Ultimate 
 than the one known as BFG.
  
  You Should Try it out if you like FPS's there is also a lot of cheats for this game and i mean 
 a lot and lot of cheats!
  
  my final rating is a 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coulthard_sc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 6:51 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 might be the most anticipated game of its era because doom and doom 2 simply defined the 
 first-person genre. Every fps the last 10 years is inspired either by Doom or Quake.
  
  What I love about this game is the story presentation. They made an excellent job with the game 
 intro, the mystery and the random nervousness to get you in the character. It really matters to 
 me when the story is well said and you don't start doing things in this case killing things without 
 knowing who you are and what are you doing here. Through the whole game you will be able to read 
 people's emails, video and audio logs and have pretty much a general idea of what is going on. You 
 also will be given a Personal Data Assistant tool (pda) to keep track of all the data. The twisted 
 part is that many of these demons that are trying to kill you are the people that worked in the 
 facility and listening to all these audio logs makes many scenes very emotional.
  
  The story in a few words is this, its 2145 you are a marine working for the Union Aerospace Corporationon 
 at a research facility, you just arrived there and things are starting to get wrong, everyone is 
 talking about weird stuff happening in the facility and you are going to find out yourself.
  
  Now about the graphics, personally I think Doom 3 is one of the biggest visual masterpieces 
 of gaming history so far, and that because it combines excellent use of lightning and shadows, incredible 
 details and fine art design and animation. 
  
  Doom 3 is made to be scary, that's why the dark atmosphere the creepy environment and that's you 
 can't attach a flash light in your gun, I'm tired of all these people complaining over the internet 
 about that. Whats the point to have lights everywhere you look when you are playing a survivor 
 horror game...
  
  So in conclusion, Doom 3 is an action packed and visual masterpiece with great sound and game-play, all 
 that combined make it a top quality first person shooter. Turn off the lights and prepared to be 
 scared. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MighteyMouse2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  this was the most frightening game i've ever played. i enjoyed it soooooooo much. the best part 
 was having my friends play some levels and watch them get scared out of their minds, then i laugh 
 until i cry. 
  
  visuals were insanely creepy and audio was erie and gave you goosebumps. when you had to use your 
 flashlight and could not wield a gun as well, i felt like i was already dead. mars was the perfect 
 place for this game to take place, it gave it that 'unknown' factor that made it that much more 
 intense and suspenseful. the main boss was rediclous. i couldnt beat him for the longest time cause 
 i forgot you could sprint. hahahah. then i read a strategy and he was easier than cake. i used 
 to play the game at night or with my blinds closed to get the 'scary' effect goin on, yeah idk 
 what i was thinking, i must have been on something. i had to pause the game every now and then 
 to get up and walk around and remind myself, it's just a game. haha
  
  overall the game was phenomenal and it is in my top five for favorite game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corlist
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:57 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to understand the motivation behind creating Doom 3. Presumably, their main goal is financial 
 success and reaching to a larger audience - to unfortunately lackluster results. Why is this the 
 case?
  
  Initially, what most players experience in Doom 3 is its graphical supremacy. There was really 
 nothing at that time that looked as remarkable as Doom 3 was. Even competing titles like Half-Life 
 2 and Far Cry pale slightly in comparison. Smart streamlining moves such as using a keypad can 
 also be done without an awkward transition. All these moves add to the outstanding presentation 
 values of Doom 3.
  
  Then comes the story, which is often thought as a throwaway in the first place. If you put a story 
 into your game, there is absolute certainty that players will question it. The delivery tilts frequently 
 between poor and inadequate - with few half-decent attempts of your commander and Dr Betruger communicating 
 with you as well as numerous voice messages and emails in PDAs which come across as obscenely obtrusive 
 to the pace of the game.
  
  It also doesn't help the game that you don't get a chance to feel emotionally attached to any of 
 the characters (besides hate for Betruger) . This is because you hardly ever see them; you don't 
 even have the slightest of friendships with any of the marines. More often than not, all of them 
 inexplicably die horrible deaths, without you being able to do anything for any of them. Even your 
 own player character doesn't have much background, or even the most minute identity. While this 
 is feasible for horror games like Doom 3, the fact that every one dies almost immediately hardly 
 comes together with the utter annihilation that you are causing with relative ease.
  
  The gameplay itself, is more of a mixed-bag. People who enjoy horror games or some Doom fans (why 
 some and not all - I'll explain in due time) will find it an absolute thrill ride while the rest 
 will find it to be a monster closet trudge like a carnival haunted house that's way too long.
 
  
  One consistent factor that permeates the entire game is light, or rather, the lack of it. While 
 this is beneficial to the dismal atmosphere, it is a nuisance in terms of gameplay. It's difficult 
 to justify something that's suspenseful, thrilling while being irritating and repetitive at the 
 same time.
  
  The slower, more deliberate pace of the game, as with the darkness, can be very off-putting to 
 loyal Doom fans accustomed to the white-knuckle action while the frequently unacceptable darkness 
 often hurts players who doesn't buy all the provisions made for a tense horror experience. It's 
 the move towards a cinematic Half-Life feel with a couple of System Shock 2 touches that unfortunately 
 made Doom 3 feel unfocused, losing much of the original charm and identity of the earlier Doom 
 games.
  
  This makes it confusing as to why a game like Doom 3 was conceived. It's a game that successfully 
 alienates a portion of Doom's original fans while its relatively unchanged classic gameplay along 
 with many new annoyances makes it a difficult recommend for people who are not already interested 
 in the Doom series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Pros and Cons:
  ---
  + Timescale is a fun cheat.
  + Graphics that beat even today's technolegy.
  + Comes with a supberb, functioning level editor.
 
  + Occasionally great level design flashes.
  + Dark atomsphere that rebuilds the horror of Hell.
  + Super Turbo Turkey Puncher 3 is a good 
 game.
  
  
  - Editor has very limited triggers to use.
  - Lacks any intense sense of horror.
  - Uninterresting story and even less interresting main 
 character.
  ---
  
  
  
  
  If one thing can be said about the id software, its that its always revoulutionized FPS of any 
 kind. Doom 1 and 2 inspired what is now Blood, Heritic, and Duke Nukem. Quake 1, 2, and 3 inspired 
 what is now Half Life and Wolfenstien. Almost every shooter was inspired by some sort of trick 
 used in the Quake and Doom engines. And with the Doom 3 coming out, id software does it once again. 
 But now a new trick is tried for the new Doom generation. Here, with Doom 3, id software goes in 
 the other direction of mindless level-roaming demonslaughter. While maintaining the epicness of 
 Doom and Doom 2, Doom 3 is packed with its groundbreaking "Doom Engine". Lights are rendered in 
 high detail, shadow effects are used, and a fairly effective sense of horror protrays as the backbone 
 of the overrall quality of the game.
  
  
  
  From looking at the morhbid title of the game, you might guess that it involves demons from hell. 
 And if you aren't a fan of the original Doom, then you guessed right on top of the money. The story 
 picks off from Doom 2: MarsCity, a spacestation planted on the planet Mars with a license to research 
 a good chunk of world's portal technolegy outside of legal boundries and laws and all that boring 
 stuff. However, as always, something went wrong and has created a portal linked directly to Hell. 
 That portal bleeds out millions of demons of all kinds, mostly remakes of the demons in Doom 2 
 roaming around what's left of MarCity. And its up to you, as a nameless, speechless marine to keep 
 the demonic infestation from reaching earth. That's just the setting of course; In the actual game, 
 there's not much else for the storyline that's involved. Your eventually treated to a little more 
 story about artifacts, martian civilations and some things to make it feel a little more organized, 
 but id games never focused too much on storylines, so that's all you get. In your attempt to destory 
 the forces of hell, you'll navigate (and be spooked by) numberous dark corridors with the ship, 
 completing minor tasks along the way, and eventually making your way into Hell itself.
  
  
  
  While the story is nowhere near interresting as Quake 4, it shouldn't keep you from playing 
 a rather unique game. Still, expect alot of questions coming from your lips while you play. Since 
 the main character is devoid of a name or personality, he's usually refered to as Doom Marine. 
 Its nice id software kept with the old Doom story of the nameless marine, but it gets tideous to 
 have all the commanders and other marines repeatidly call you "marine", and yet take you absoulutly 
 seriously, despite you can't talk. 
  
  
  
  Unlike most FPS games that have stiff, tight controls like Halo or Quake 4, your weapon and hud 
 lags and sways around to give you a more Half-Life feeling, but certainly alot better. Because 
 of the swaying hud, you may feel like your playing a first person adventure/horror game with guns, 
 but once you get used to it, the gameplay starts to feel really sharp. You mainly navigate around 
 the ship, trying to complete several tasks that invovle removing the demons from existance... and 
 that's about it. The game features a little bit of mystery solving with the fact to continusely 
 pick up PDAs left behind by dead ship crew. These PDAs are cell-phone like objects that have certain 
 emails on them revealing important key codes on them. So whenever you come across a locked door 
 or ammo crate with a keypad triggering it, you just look around for a nearby PDA, play the emails, 
 look for a code of some kind, and enjoy the profit.
  
  
  Horror isn't exactly a strong point for id software, but they got it partially right with Quake 
 2 and Doom 3. However, nothing in Doom 3 will make you flinch too much. In the beginning, the game 
 issues you to go down to the dark parts of the ship, looking for a missing scientist. Instead, 
 you get treated to an army of zombified marines that pathetically trot out of the darkness, trying 
 to scare you. The game's horror, in general, seems pretty weak. Occasionally, a demon will pop 
 out of the shadows, or you'll get a red-screen affect when you see too many dead bodies, but the 
 rest of the game seems to bend over more on the Cool side rather than the Scary side. It slightly 
 obvious to see a door covered in blood and slime, only to find out that a scary monster is hiding 
 on the other side. This is the game's attempt to weaken you up for more intense stuff, like random 
 women screaming or dead bodies flesh-fused to the ceiling, but you won't be screaming. I won't 
 spoil the rest, but I will just say for now that it still isn't that scary, unless your scared 
 of closet monsters or something.
  
  
  
  
  Doom 3 equips you with a fairly large load of weapons. You got your flashlight, which you use to 
 see dark areas (practially the entire levels are filled with shadows, so you'll need to see) . You 
 also got your pistol, your shotgun (my favorite) , the plasma gun, the rocket launchers, and a couple 
 of more. The Doom 2 classic, the chainsaw, is back and it works better than ever, but the rest 
 of the guns just don't feel all that powerful. Sure, they got a good, old school sound to them 
 and pack a punch, but the plasma gun, for instance, that repeatidly goes "pow pow pow pow pow" 
 in a high pitch voice makes it seem kind of corny at times. The shotgun sounds like a recording, 
 and the machine gun hicups a bit, but its nothing to ruin the entire game. They all sound good, 
 but not very realistic. Rocket Launchers should shakes the entire screen and let out a huge blast. 
 Instead, it feels like your firing an explosive arrow from Turok.
  
  
  And as I stated before, the Doom 2 monsters, from cyberdemons and imps, to the classic "Doom puffballs" 
 and hellknights, and even the lostsouls, are all included in the game. You face tons of zombies 
 and unarmed demons, but to give a challange, these zombies sometimes have guns and the demons are 
 capible of throwing fireballs at you. These monsters can sound slightly dumb at times, but when 
 they're cool, their very cool. They promise to you that they'll never continuesly dodge or lower 
 your framerate, like Prey does. And it still the same, good old fun to see their lives surcumb, 
 usually to the most favored, brutal chainsaw. What's unusal, for a 3 disc game, with all those 
 intense graphics and monster, the framerate is terrific, and will only slow down if you see several 
 moving crates or triggers. Even when your chopping away with the chainsaw or brutally slaying a 
 crowd of zombies with a shotgun, the game won't slow down one bit. So basically, even though it 
 looks different, Doom 3 still plays like your classic Doom 2. Doom still throws demons at you, 
 it still gives you awesome weapons, and it still has its violent charm.
  
  
  
  
  Doom 3 also has one of the best editors out there. GUI editor, Particle editor and Sound editor 
 is just to name a few of the many editors included in Doom 3. Another remarkable and easy-to-use 
 level editor is included and is also a big improvment from such editors like Hammer or Quark. You 
 got alot more entities, alot less crashes, and just a good feel to it. Although not as good as 
 the Preditor (since you have less triggers to choose from) , you can make some high-detailed maps 
 with the innovative engine. If I had been very unclear up to this point, then I'll say now once 
 again that Doom 3 is a terrific step forward in the FPS franchise. The only thing bad I can say 
 is that Doom 3's level editor crashes more than Preditor. If you can sucessfully exclude that, 
 Doom 3 is definetly one of the best shooters from id yet and should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supergodzilla1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is essentially a remake of the original winning PC game, Doom. Only this time around Id 
 Software is looking around for a more realistic and horror approach to the franchise. The game 
 spoils you to volumetric lighting, darkness, and challenge in a multitude of fashions.
  
  First off on my mental checklist would be the weapons. In Doom there was a variety of tools of 
 destruction for you to make use of. The inadequate pistol, the spray of the chaingun, the powerful 
 shotgun, the melting firepower of the plasma gun, superior explosive strength of the rocket launcher, 
 super weapon BFG, and Doom 2's crazy chainsaw and mighty double barrel shotgun. All of the weapons, 
 excluding the double barrel shotgun, are present. As an addition a machine gun has been added to 
 the arsenal in order to replace the fast firing Doom chaingun, as the chaingun in Doom 3 has a 
 warm up time. Another bonus to the arsenal are unwieldy grenades.
  
  The weapons in Doom 3 work in all practicality as they should. The only difficulties would be the 
 fact that the BFG threatens to blow you up, should you wait too long to fire. The grenades bounce 
 around with a furious vengeance that could become hazardous to yourself in close quarters combat. 
 The rocket launcher is also life threatning due to the cramp combat conditions present in Doom 
 3 and is only adequate for boss fights which usually take place in open areas. The shotgun has 
 a rediculous spread, which forces you to jam that shotty into an Imp's gut and fire in hopes for 
 a one hit kill.
  
  In conclusion the Chainsaw, Machinegun, Chaingun, Shotgun, and Plasma Gun are infinitely valuable 
 in your quest to crush hell. Much like it had been for the original Doom. If you had played the 
 original games you won't have many quarrels with the execution of the weaponry.
  
  Graphics:
  Ultra High Quality presents possibly the most vividly astounding visuals. The volumetric 
 lighting and textures are pleasing to look at time to time. And the details on the monsters are 
 pride inspiring as you fire away and watch them disentigrate in flames. Doom 3 takes the maximum 
 power from a PC's hardware to create possibly the best visual experience in gaming to date. If 
 you don't meet any of the requirements for the game and are forced to play on Low Quality, you're 
 missing out.
  
  Story: The story is, overall, lacking much like the original Doom had been. All you really need 
 to know to get started is that hell is unleashed and that it's time to figure out the source of 
 the intrusion and go to hell and back to end it. You are given little choice in how you accomplish 
 your objectives but it's not like Doom had complicated objectives of it's own anyhow.
  
  Gameplay:
  While most would critique that only being able to wield the flashlight to light up 
 areas and being forced to switch to your weapon to attack would be a turn off it's a very easy 
 habit to pick up on. The plasma and fireball attacks made by most enemies light up the area around 
 them making easy to spot targets in the event that you just switched to your weapon after spotting 
 them. Id went a bit further in helping you identify enemies by giving the zombie an orange glow 
 to their eyes when they get close, granting the opportunity to pull off a well placed shotgun blast 
 in your defense.
  
  Monsters, much like they would in Doom from time to time, are hidden throughout the campaign maps 
 to create ambushes. Often they teleport in through a fiery show of demonic energy. While things 
 start to get predictable it remains an enjoyable experience.
  
  Sound:
  You'll hear the hiss of machinery and steam as you progress through the UAC facility. The breathing 
 of your enemies are audible as you creep up to a turn in the hallway and mentally debate rushing 
 around with your weapon in hand or your flashlight. Explosions and the crackling of fireballs are 
 vivid and no sound effect or monster cry has been neglected to be of prime quality.
  
  Multiplayer:
  I've never caught on to the competitive multiplayer aspect of Doom 3 due to the 
 better multi mechanics in Quake 4. But the modding community has created a mod that allows Cooperative 
 play throughout the campaign and custom maps over a LAN or Internet. Creating a pleasing intense 
 experience when you are able to play with friends or complete strangers. While the Multiplayer 
 feature in Doom 3 isn't revolutionary there are ways to take advantage of it and make a unique 
 experience.
  
  Overall: Doom 3 is an incredible reinvention of the winning game, Doom. And while not perfect it's 
 definitely one of the great games of our time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genia
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2009 7:35 am PT
Review:  Key points:
  
  Visual style and graphics: 
  Superb graphics perfectly suited to portraying the horrors this game contains. Creature designs 
 spawned directly from someone's worst nightmare and a good re-imagining of the original doom baddies. 
 9.5/10
  
  Environment and level design: 
  Similarly well executed but somewhat uninspired with a distinct lack of variety throughout. 7/10
 
  
  Gameplay and Combat: 
  Very visceral and satisfying for the most part but encounters can get repetitive. 8/10
  
  Sound 
 effects and music: 
  High standard but rarely exceptional. Lack of soundtrack very effective at times but would be welcome 
 at others. Voice acting mostly very good but can be a little dreary. 7.5/10
  
  Story and writing quality: 
  Simple and linear. Although the simple plot is a given in Doom a 
 more elaborate and personal story would have made the game more dynamic. 6/10
  
  Bugs and stability: 
  Nothing worth mentioning in my experience. Some slow downs occurred on 
 my slightly outdated machine and a powerful PC is definitely recommended. 8.5/10
  
  Suspense and horror: 
  Full marks! I feel this category deserves being added for thsi game. A 
 truly impressive atmosphere that I recommend to anyone even remotely interested. 10/10
  
  Total score: 8.0/10
  (Genia's previous number of reviews: 0  first review!) 
  
  
  
  
 Review Body:
  
  From the go it's hard not to be impressed by this games atmosphere and the aspects that ID Software 
 got right. However the game has some issues that are difficult to ignore even when staring into 
 the worryingly realistic face of a demon from hell. 
  
  The engine, even three years on, is still perfectly suited and tuned to providing a seamless horror 
 setting. Every dark corner or small passage can hide one of the meticulously detailed and varied 
 horrors that you'll encounter in the game. The creature design is truly superb, as is the quality 
 of the surrounding environments. The imaginative ways and places from which enemies emerge, especially 
 the ever present imps and zombies, is sure to keep most players on their toes and shows off the 
 amazing creature animation and occasionally inspired and seamless scripting as creatures crawl 
 from under panels and break through doors to get at you. This level of detail occasionally injects 
 a much needed breath of fresh air to what unfortunately can become a rather repetitive world. The 
 setting, although beautifully realised, does not vary a great deal with large portions of the Mars 
 base looking largely the same and eventually a little bland. Doom 3 does however offer a refreshing 
 and distinctive end-game segment that provides an action filled, if somewhat derivative, climax. 
 
  
  Along with the stunning but slightly monotonous visuals there is a very minimal but effective sound 
 engine. The sound effects of the various objects, weapons and creatures integrate well into the 
 game's atmosphere and are very consistent in their high quality. There is a distinct lack of a 
 music score in the game, which adds to the feeling of loneliness and dread but sometimes stresses 
 the emptiness in the more dreary portions of the game. Overall the sound is of a very high standard 
 and on a small number of occasions works incredibly well to enhance the chilling and impressive 
 "vision from hell" cut scenes at various points in the game. 
  
  Enemy encounters are initially adrenaline filled and have a great mix between exciting, visceral 
 combat and an outright terrifying struggle for survival. From the first time you get mauled by 
 a zombie and witness your screen buckle, taking a chunk of your health with it, you will have a 
 strong desire to avoid taking any more damage. This suitably unpleasant experience makes the struggle 
 for survival against the odds seem much more real and personal. Luckily you have an impressive 
 armoury to use against the hellish invaders with most of the well-modelled weapons feeling like 
 they pack a good deal of punch that sends enemies reeling back or perishing in hellfire. True to 
 the original doom titles the shotgun is particularly satisfying and surprisingly powerful. Which 
 is just as well since this will likely be your weapon of choice for most of the game. Ammo is scarce 
 throughout which adds even more difficulty to what can be quite a challenging game. 
  However as with the environment the combat can also become somewhat tedious and repetitive. Once 
 you discover how the various creatures behave the difficulty can often come only from a lack of 
 ammo, lack of room to dodge in the almost unchangingly cramped environments or the inability to 
 see in the dark unless you switch your weapon for the tight-beamed flashlight that frustratingly 
 provides the only bright illumination for much of the game. 
  
  Although it is keeping to the original games the simple and linear plot seems like a great shame. 
 The game displays some great examples of innovative interactive touches that would have worked 
 extremely well with a more dynamic plot. The method of operating computer consoles deserves a particular 
 mention as this works seamlessly and occasionally shows what potential this game engine has to 
 create a truly interactive and dynamic world. Unfortunately the story is relatively derivative 
 and doesn't offer any significant surprises or particularly exciting objectives. 
  The numerous written and recorded diary entries scattered around the base, although well written 
 and acted, feel like they could have been used more effectively to involve the player in the widespread 
 horror of the events that have occurred around the base and to drive a more elaborate plot. Unfortunately 
 many of these snippets of background story, as well as the various plot driven cut scenes, are 
 dreary and the occasional puzzles they contain often involve simply remembering a code or the location 
 of your next objective or a hidden stash. In the end it felt like the game could have gained from 
 a more detailed and involving story to break up the occasional monotony in the gameplay itself. 
 
  
  At times it is difficult to imagine a game in which all the elements combine so effectively to 
 offer a more atmospheric and thrilling experience than Doom 3. It's easy to lose yourself in the 
 horrific unreality of exploring a base overrun by hellish creatures and the feelings of loneliness 
 and doom stayed with me even after I finished playing, making me imagine how truly terrifying such 
 a situation would be (and I must admit it prevented me from sleeping too well on a number of nights) . 
 As an FPS veteran it's possible to blast your way through this game on a near constant adrenaline 
 rush from the smooth action and suspenseful terror. However the challenging nature of the game 
 means that for many there will be periods where there's just too much of the same thing. Ultimately 
 I think it is worth it for anyone interested in one of the most suspenseful and atmospheric first 
 person shooters ever created. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardinar
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the Mess Hall, Marine. Your mission was to die, soldier." - Sabaoth (Sergeant Kelly)
 
  
  "HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHA" - Malcolm Betruger.... (Don't ask me why I didn't put some other quote... 
 you just get to hear this very often in Doom 3)
  
  So, you're... Marine, or the name you chose for your 'Marine' in the menu. You have been called 
 down to Mars to replace some other Marines that disappeared for some reasons. After you have arrived, 
 you make your way to Sergeant Kelly while hearing the complaints of the workers that were spooked 
 by the stuff happening on Mars and people disappearing. Sergeant Kelly orders you to find some 
 missing scientist that is messing around in Mars' Base. As you are on your way to the spot the 
 scientists resides, you get your first weapon, your first walk on Mars and you meet some other 
 people. You finally find the scientists, he tells you that you don't "understand nor comprehend" 
 ... after which he dies and so this is how Doom 3 starts. The zombies and demons fill the base 
 and you start mashing brains with your pistol.
  
  STORY:
  
  The Good:
  1. Pretty intriguing to find the continuation of Doom and Doom 2, some interesting twists.
  2. 
 Somewhat interesting audio logs... (not a big factor...)
  
  The Bad:
  1. You have probably already heard the good old argument of - "Why is it 22th century and the military 
 could not install the flashlights to the gun?" ... or ... "Why all other marines were so easily 
 zombified and you are here with so much health and armor... and able to carry so much ammo while 
 crushing Hellknight's brain?" ... It doesn't make sense... I agree.
  2. Some people try to communicate with you... to meet up with them and stuff. Well, that's nice... 
 but it never happens, they die just by the time you arrive. It may create some let down feeling 
 but meh, It's Doom3... so it won't be much of a factor.
  
  The Story in Doom3 isn't much of a 'good book'. As the game continues, you will easily predict 
 what's going to happen next and that most of the things that you wish would happen apparently will 
 not. There are some moments that make you choose between two sides in a 'Yes or No' question, since 
 that will not make much difference in the game - I will not put it as 'The Good'... but it is still 
 interesting. Nevertheless, the Story is good enough to keep you interesting at times, not too bad.
 
  
  THE SOUND:
  
  The Good:
  1. Distinctive and Scary sounds of different monsters are really good and are even scarier in the 
 dark.
  2. Audio Logs and the Communications keep the mood tense with it's screams, recordings of scared 
 workers and more...
  
  The Bad:
  1. Alright... so you're now like 6 hours deep in the game, you hear an Imp appear behind you with 
 a big crack and Betruger laugh in madly voice. Yes, the sounds do fall into repetitiveness, and 
 the more they try to scare you with the same sounds... the more pitiful it gets and the easier 
 it is to destroy an imp that actually tried to backstab you.
  2. Weapons sound a bit weak, but I think it was created on purpose to not deafen the sounds of 
 the monsters... not a big factor.
  
  Overall, the sounds are great in Doom 3... they are scary and with the lights going off it is even 
 more intense. The sounds infact do fall into repetitiveness which makes em a bit more useless as 
 time progresses and it's not as tense as it was when you started the game. The Audio Logs are interesting 
 for some time but again, it falls into repetitiveness and you want the thing just to give you the 
 code for the locker and shut up, you cannot fight and listen to the log at the same time because 
 you aren't gonna hear anything through the gunfight. Weapons projectile sounds are a bit weak but 
 I think it was created on purpose to not deafen the sounds of the incoming monsters.
  
  Even though I said alot of bad things about the Sound, but it mostly depends on how scared of a 
 person you are and it is not as bad as you think it is after reading the writing above, the Audio 
 Logs will not appear too often and the scary sounds are still good for a long time (depending on 
 your 'Fear Factor') . Myself, I am not easily scared and there was only one thing in Doom 3 that 
 made me jump, others just created a tense feeling, that it's it.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The Good:
  1. Fear Factor, dark rooms, scary zombies, intimidating demons. That is what Doom 
 3 is about - to scare you to death. And it does a pretty good Job, you will be walking backwards, 
 mashing the quick-save button and having the Plasma Gun ready to fire... I am impressed.
  2. Storage Lockers, a very interesting part of the game which I liked. It is always intriguing 
 and fun to open a locked box and find what kind of treasure awaits you inside, but you're going 
 to have to do some research before opening them - you will have to find a code. Some Lockers make 
 you think outside the box, which is awesome... one of the puzzles made me think for a long time. 
 But don't always trust the lockers... not always.
  3. Longer than average game longevity. I finish games pretty quickly though... 13 hours on Veteran 
 difficulty.
  4. An OK multiplayer. Not a big factor.
  
  The Bad:
  1. Re-pe-ti-ti-ve-ne-ss, yes... you will get only 3 kind of environments in Doom 3 - Claustraphobic 
 Mars Base, Mars' Surface and Hell. Mars Base being the most often, you will surely notice how repetitive 
 it gets and I am sure you will be happy to go to Hell (Ahem, Hell being in Doom 3 of course) .
  2. Too much ammo, I mean this is 'kinda' a survival game, I get almost unlimited ammo on each weapon, 
 coulda created a scarier feeling if you ran out of shotgun shells. (Not a big factor, 'The True 
 Survival' Mod takes care of it) .
  
  The Gameplay in Doom 3 is Very Good hands down. Although if it had used some different environment 
 than scary Mars Base, I would've been glad... but I think it was inevitable. As you see, Scary 
 Games like Doom 3 should keep their atmosphere up... so if you change the claustraphobic rooms 
 into an alley on a sunny day, the game will lose it's purpose. Storage Lockers was a great idea 
 to keep me busy a little and to fulfill my curiosity of 'What is inside?' And the longevity of 
 the game makes it even better because Doom3 does make you want more. It was a bit odd that the 
 game had too much Ammo in it, I carried unrealistically a lot of ammo in my shotgun, but some mods 
 take care of this business. The multiplayer of Doom 3 is a bit unbalanced in some places, while 
 having a variety of weapons - The Rocket Launcher is a bit overpowered over others and it is a 
 bit hard to get a good weapon before getting killed. Running away is hard too, but it is not too 
 bad. The Multiplayer is OK and may add a bit of replay value.
  What am I to say? Doom 3's Gameplay is great, the AI is a bit weak but it is all good with so much 
 scripted events and different kinds of monsters.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The Good:
  1. Graphics couldn't get any better, the detail, the textures, the shadows are all great.
  2. 
 Great designed monsters, Commando is by me, named the best looking monster of 2004... it looks 
 just as cool as it is scary... great!
  3. The best Graphics of 2004, on the same level with Half-life 2.
  
  The Bad:
  1. Probably 
 took a good PC to handle the thing in 2004, but now... it ain't a problem.
  
  Graphics are just perfect in Doom 3. Any game that will scare you - it will be Doom 3, even your 
 own shadow scares you at times. Marvelously designed Monsters will bring Doom 3 to life and the 
 really satisfying gore of your chainsaw will make you want to kill more. No need to say more, the 
 graphics look good even today.
  
  OVERALL:
  
  Doom 3 is a great game with good gameplay, sound and groundbreaking Graphics. As said by many people 
 - 'Killing zombies will never get old,' and it won't. Doom 3 will satisfy your bloodthirstiest 
 dreams of a monster and ways to kill it. While Doom 3 may fall a bit in it's repetitiveness due 
 to lack of variety of the environments in the game, it still stays scary and tense. If you're looking 
 for some scary action or Old-school gameplay, this game is for you.
  
  SCORE:
  STORY ---- 8, SOUND ---- 8.75, GAMEPLAY --- 9,
  GRAPHICS ----- 10.
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 89.4% 
 = 90% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davemk7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 7:03 pm PT
Review:  i played this on the original release date and just re-installed it again to refresh my very fond 
 memories of it.
  
  doom 3 is so good that it still scare's me now, just as much as it did way back then.
  the game 
 is a par excellance and alot of games made today cant even come close to it. be that graphics wise 
 or gameplay.
  
  if youve never played this before, your either dead or were too young to even know what a pc was. 
 this game is epic and you must own it. the graphics are amazing , the gameplay superb, but the 
 mood and environment is just jaw dropping-ly scary and tense.
  
  think aliens the movie, but based in hell, and you got doom 3.
  
  the expansion pack is also 
 amazing and is needed to enjoy this title to the full. you will find alot of mods for this game 
 online too so the experience will last alot longer.
  
  ultimately reccomended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaren_Kuldes
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  
  Science has unlocked the gates to the unknown, and now only one man stands between Hell and Earth. 
 A sci-fi horror masterpiece, DOOM 3 is like nothing you have experienced. Dramatic storyline, pulse-pounding 
 action, incredible graphics, and revolutionary technology combine to draw you into the most frightening 
 and gripping first person gaming experience ever created.
  
  The ruins of an ancient martian civilization have unlocked the secrets to teleportation, and the 
 UAC will stop at nothing to harness this world-altering technology. As part of a marine detachment 
 sent to protect the facility, your duty seemed simple enough... until the invasion. Now, in an 
 epic clash against pure evil you must fight to understand who is with you, who is against you, 
 and what must be done to stop this nightmare from reaching earth.
  Doom 3 combines the latest graphics technology with the exceptional use of lighting and outstanding 
 overall art direction to provide what may be, albeit arguably, the finest purely visual experience 
 in any computer game yet. It's also a testament to skillful pacing, producing alternating feelings 
 of horror and apprehension by mixing moments of sudden, furious action with cautious exploration 
 of a creepy, foreboding environment filled with dim corners, murky crannies and gruesome creatures 
 waiting to spring out and attack unexpectedly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gazzer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Doom3 had "THE" game engine, and this engine was subsequently used by Quake. If that 
 isn't answer enough then read on.
  Doom3 has the action, monsters, innovative cut scenes, ambiance and superb gameplay of all of the 
 latest and greatest games out today, and yet it can still hold its own with them all, however, 
 this game was released in 2004. 
  With all the different types of enemies in this game you soon learn what weapon is the best to 
 use against which enemy, and if you have already played it you know that there are loads of both 
 to pick from. This is not to say that the game is easy to play because you need to hide in the 
 shadows, to run into cover and to melee whenever the time is right, and to defend yourself against 
 two or three different types of enemy at the same time. 
  I have played and replayed this game over the years and it keeps throwing surprises at me. Try 
 playing it on the hard levels and you will see what I mean. Most modern games tend to have fierce 
 action and regular sedate interludes, and Doom3 is no exception, however, when the action starts 
 it just keeps on moving and just refuses to let up! At the end of the game you will find that your 
 reflexes are really sharp, or you have become a nervous wreck.
  This is, quite simply, a brilliant game for its time and is still fresh every time I play it. It 
 deserves to take its place in the annals of the Greatest Game of All Time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trung123
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  The monsters are stupid but they love you so much ! so... dont make them disappointed about you 
 ! 
  
  The game's graphic is full of disgusting stuff, rooms are always narrow, so-that, you cant escape 
 from those undeads, fat - monster...
  In my opinion, the game is always waiting for player, so, there is nothing to be scary since you 
 knew when a monster would appear.
  I think bioshock created a stronger atmosphere than doom 3. It make me feel chill while doom 3 
 make me feel funny :D . 
  
  And, the side effect of this game : u will on longer scare of darkness, ==  if u are under 17 years 
 old, but u like this game, u should let your mom know :" Oh mom, this game is funny, it isnt scary 
 , it can help me to make water alone... :) )
  
  Ok, in conclusion, this is a very interesting game that u should buy or rent a copy for 3 days.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  Lets just remmember that this game was released in 2004, and its graphics are still awesome.!
 
  
  Doom 3 was the first next gen FPS that started it all. Just as Doom 1 or Wolfenstein 3d did in 
 the past. These are revolutionary games.
  
  Doom 3 and (Quake 4) ; marked an era of next gen games with outstanding graphics and a delicious 
 experience that anyone would re play along the years.
  
  Graphics: they are great. they may be a bit outdated (now its 2008) but they still rock. The enviroment 
 is full of creapy stuff, dead bodies spread troughout the world, blood decorating the walls, the 
 intimidating shadowed corners that ll force you to use your light (a friend that will stick with 
 you during the whole game) ; plus the diabolical minions youll face and the cybernetic style of 
 the mother ship youll play in.
  
  Sound/music: it gets really inmersive. It will make you pee your pants sooner or later.
  
  
 Gameplay: pretty cool, the way you can manage your weapons, fast reloading and fast shooting.. 
 its all confortable. You will always want to keep on playing.. Very addictive.
  
  Story: DOOM STORY. You are a nameless marine and you have to kill every single spawn from hell 
 that ll appear in your way. And make several trips to Hell to kill a couple of cows with machine 
 guns. etc.
  
  all in all... awesome game. Almost a legend such as its predecessor Doom 1, but this time with 
 upgraded graphics. 
  Resurrection of Evil is more of the same, which means is more of the same awesome stuff. Cool expantion, 
 must have both.
  
  definitely a MUST MUST have. ;) 
  
  cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buchsbaumy
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  As I sat at home during chemo this past year, I got to catch up on some older games that I had 
 missed. I added this one to the mix and was pleasantly suprised by the game play. .. for about 4 
 hours. Then the game got increasingly more annoying. I struggled through and then eventually got 
 bored to the point of adding the God mode just to get the end of the story line. Well even on God 
 mode the game lost my interest and I stopped about 75% through, after pointless repeat kills. The 
 game was about 10 game play hours too long and was more "hell + demons" type flashy than it was 
 skillful game play. I mean Im just as OK with a slasher game as the next guy ( once in a while) 
 but this one was subpar. Im not even a Quake fan but Quake 4 was way better to compare a game with 
 another FPS slasher. 
  
  
  Storyline - C-
  Game play - C+
  Structure - D
  
  
  Summary - Near the bottom of FPS games of recent years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin-417
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  this game has so much to offer...
  
  one of the first games that are very detailed and pretty graphically amazing for its time period..
 
  
  multiplayer is simple, but to the point.. no ranking, nothing, but was one of the first next-gen 
 games to offer multiplayer that SO many people played..
  
  the game is SCARY on hard..
  and a traditionsl shoot em up gameplay with amazing graphics..
  
  what more could you ask for???
 
  
  it has its flaws.. some weird glitches with the physics..
  but they are completely overshadowed by the awesome gameplay...
  
  the game is pretty short.. 
 took me about 10 to 12 hours to beat, but the explansion pack also adds on another few hours.
  
  
  
  the game has several different mods as well in which you can download straight onto 
 your hard drive..
  
  you can get more maps from gamers just like you..
  the last man standing mod is pretty awesome which adds tons of replayability...
  
  perfect 
 game IMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucianu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  Now, after playng the game quite some time, i consider it to be very well done, and very atmospheric. 
 It is a fun game to play, not only are the graphics wonderful, not to mention the fact that it 
 runs on lower PC's, but the gameplay keeps you going for more. 
  
  Good things:
  - graphics, looks incredible even now in 2008.
  - relatively easy dificulty, not to punishing, 
 but not child's play either.
  - detailed weapons, and many of them.
  - detailed monsters, and many of them.
  - good cutscenes.
  - good amosphere.
  - good action.
 
  
  Bad things.
  - graphics  in some places to dark. 
  - weapons  the weapons do not seem as powerful as they look, and because of this, some weapons 
 may cause frustration. 
  - Truly scary in some parts, but not in other parts were there are intended to be scary. 
  
 
  
  Overall: 8.5
  It is a very fun game to play, filled with action, and the ocassional easy puzzels, great graphics, 
 though a little dark. I recommend it, no matter what kind of games you like, a fun game always 
 is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmallMafia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Theres no denying thats when Doom first came out it was nothing short of revolutionary. It was 
 the first person shooter that every man and his dog had to own and had to play. It brought to the 
 world of the First Person Shooter genre a fast paced, fully 3-Dimensional world of nightmarish 
 hell - eventhough it was all really just sprites and pretty much set the foundations as to what 
 are the right recipes and what arent the right recipes to making a First Person Shooter. So really 
 then, Doom 3 has a lot of weight upon its shoulders to keep these expectations up high.
  
  IM TOO YOUNG TO DIE.
  Built on what is known as the id Tech 4 engine, this game was a PC breaker 
 of note. At the time more than just a few people scraped, prayed and even begged for the extra 
 money with which to buy a brand new machine in order to contain the nuclear bomb that was Doom 
 3!
  Looking back at it all it seems quite funny but the game is now almost 5 years old (at the time 
 of writing this) , and back then it gave us graphics we couldnt even dream of.
  While its not entirely a sequel to the last Doom game released before it, it is actually a remaking 
 of the first game and that suddenly sparks a worry - How can a developer remake such an amazing 
 game? How can they make it better and in fact how will we not get bored with the same thing, again?
 
  
  HEY, NOT TOO ROUGH.
  Well the response seemed to have been to change it completely! The way we once knew Doom, its ultra 
 faced past, million bad-guy blasting action are all gone. In fact Doom 3 has had a total change 
 of tone, it is now a slower game but its still an ultra scary, million bad-guy blasting blood bath 
 and thats a good thing. To say that Doom 3 is a scary game is an understatement, Ive seen grown 
 men scream like babies from this game! This is all complemented by a sum of two factors: firstly 
 as everyone knows it was a graphical master piece and in may ways still is - the developers have 
 created some of the most unbelieveably realistic lighting effects; shadows, dark corridors, fire, 
 glowing pentagrams all look so life-like that they actually scare you themselves. Theres something 
 talking to you in the back of your head while you're playing telling you something is wrong and 
 you shouldn't carry on playing, but you do anyway and thats the real beauty of it.
  
  HURT ME PLENTY.
  Secondly is gameplay. I have to admit that I found that your character is fantastically 
 weak and slow in this game - which he's meant to be. So much so that if you find yourself having 
 just confronted a pinky demon and you're not looking good in terms of health theres no point in 
 running, the thing will catch you so quikly, in fact you're better off fighting and going out in 
 style! And this is what makes this game cool. Your weapons too are not entirely as strong as you 
 might think they are - plasma guns, machine guns even the rail gun cannot save you'r puny little 
 bum from the terrors deap in the dark. My favorite toy was the shotgun, besides from being one 
 of the stronger weapons in the games, the metallic click of the reload can make you feel so bad-ass. 
 And lastly the monstrous AI. It is extremely advanced, you'll have imps crawling along walls and 
 out of crawl spaces scaring the living daylights out of you. Bigger monster cant do such things 
 but can break stuff in their way in order to charge into you. The AI behaves very well and their 
 designs are brilliant, they look vicious, blood thirsty and out right scary.
  
  ULTRA VIOLENCE.
  The story is pretty much the same, you're a lone marine on the Mars UAC space 
 station where all hell breaks loose and you're the last man standing. As I said before this game 
 is a blood fest, besides for blasting your way through hordes of monsters the levels have their 
 walls and floors drenched in blood and guts, if you get queasy easily then I suggest you do not 
 play this game. Even though there is a story in the game it is pretty weak, but then again who 
 needs a story? It isnt all given out to you via cutscenes like in most games, rather as you roam 
 around the base you'll be able to pick up the PDA's of the 'fallen' from which you'll be able to 
 hear their experience of working under the UAC and also other tidbits which give you insight to 
 the story. These are all played out well, voice acting is very well done, lip syncing too is just 
 as good. You will be able to meet other people that can lend you a hand without it being bitten 
 off but they are few and far between.
  
  NIGHTMARE.
  All in all Doom 3 is a great and revolutionary game which has set the bar higher for what type 
 of tech should be lurking inside our PC cases. Eventhough its not the most amazing game every made 
 it more than makes up for this with the fact that it is brilliantly scary and makes an awesome 
 collection in anyones game collection. While it is long and close to 3/4 of the game becomes a 
 bit much it is replayable. I recommend this game to anyone who is a fan or wanting to scare themselves, 
 this is a game you should have already.
  Despite its few flaws it is well worth the money especially now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexcooke900
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME IT ROCKS! i can, t help playing this game although You have to retrace your steps 
 a lot and theres no inbuilt map like the origional DOOM games, this causes me to lose my way alot 
 and o keep on running into more imps and hellknights who kill me very fast on NIGHTMARE. the worst 
 thing on this game is the NIGHTMARE difficulty because you loose life for no reason at all and 
 when it dose this it makes a wierd noise. by the way DON'T CHEAT! it takes all the fun away from 
 the game if you are goung to cheat go into the testing rooms Anyway the wierd noise is so anoying 
 because in gameplay it sounds like somthing is there but there isn't (Why? (id soft arnt making 
 sense!) ) but if you take in what i said the game is very good with very minor gliches and VERY VERY 
 VERY BIG SCARES!
  
  I love doom 3 so if you don't have it Bye it next time you have the opportunity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- (7.2) The gameplay starts off pretty solid, and action packed with good weapons. There 
 are alot of problems though, my first problem is that the game is way way to dark and whats really 
 frustrating is that your giving a flash light, but the problems is that ou cant hold a flash light 
 and a weapon, so this can be quite annoying having to change from your weapon to your flashlight 
 constantly. And since DOOM 3 is a pretty long game infact surprisingly long, the gameplay gets 
 old.
  
  Graphics- (10) DOOM 3 looks awesome, everything just looks great for 2004.
  
  Sound- (6.7) The sound isn't to good, the guns sound like toys and the voice acting can be good 
 for the most part but can be pretty annoying having to hear screaming and shouting over and over 
 again.
  
  Value- (6.4) For me DOOM 3 is a game when you play it, complete it and never play it again. There 
 is online play but really DOOM 3's multilayer is really bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJ47
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  You start off Doom 3 with the intro to Mars and land on the desert planet. You walk around and 
 you begin to piece together from the workers that something is not right here. The eerie sounds 
 and voices makes everyone in this place become edgy and frightened. You don't realize what they 
 are ranting about until when you begin to search for the scientist, and then the action and blood 
 and horror, begin.
  For those that have played Doom, will be disappointed to find that this doesn't continue the story. 
 For the new players, you will find a new favorite FPS. This game brings some of the old weapons 
 and enemies back and into a new generation of gaming with new graphics and visual effects.
  If you like horror FPS, this is the game for you. The graphics in the game are almost life-like 
 and you are almost always on the edge of your seat anticipating an Imp to jump out at you. The 
 fans of Doom may remember that some of the monsters were not hidden very well in the original Dooms. 
 Well, in this one, you never know where and Imp maybe, like the ones under the stairs. Since this 
 game is a little dark, you need a flashlight. The only drawback on this is the fact that you can 
 not have a weapon and your flashlight at the same time. Despite all this, it makes up for that 
 in the detail in the monsters and the visual effects.
  The game brings some old enemies back such as the Imp or the Revenant but you might not recognize 
 them at first since they have all been redesigned to look even better and scarier then the last 
 Doom. It also brings some new ones out of the closet such as the Cherub or the Trite. Yet all of 
 these enemies would not be as appreciated if you couldn't shoot them, but Doom 3 makes sure you 
 have plenty of weapons to kill and obliterate your enemies. And Doom wouldn't be Doom without the 
 BFG or the chainsaw.
  All of those weapons are back with some new additions such as the grenade and soul cube. But another 
 thing that will disappoint old Doom fans is that the double-barrel shotgun is not in this one, 
 but is in fact, in Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil.
  Another thing they introduce in Doom 3 is the interaction with the environment. They have all kinds 
 of little gadgets and hidden goodies to find and play around with such as there are now characters 
 to talk to and locked doors that require a key code or little mini-games inside the game.
  All in all, this game is richly defined and is worth playing. The creatures blend in with the environment, 
 the weapons are more explosive and the characters don't make you feel as alone. So I conclude this 
 review by giving Doom 3 a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorvos
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played Doom 3 was the 3rd of May 2008. I know what you'll say: man are you crazy? 
 This game is out for 4 years and you've played it for the first time only 4 months ago???
  Let me explain: Personally, I get scared really easy if I'm watching horror movies or playing horror 
 video games. When I first read about Doom 3 and watched some clips of it, I said to myself I'm 
 to much of a coward to play this game. And for 4 years I never felt like playing it. Until one 
 day, the 3rd of May 2008. I said to myself: "come on, it can't be that scary. Besides, it looks 
 awesome!!!". So I got the game, I installed it and start playing it. I have to tell you, the first 
 steps I took, I knew this game was going to be something special and something I will never forget. 
 And how right I was!!! I finished it 2 times in less than two weeks. And I finished for the third 
 time a day ago. But lets not anticipate! So, you are a regular marine, that no one cares about 
 that much ( I refuse to call him a nameless marine, because obviously that guy has a name ) . However, 
 the game producers want you to know that you're not some super mechanized soldier. You are just 
 a military trained human being with no super powers. Yet! So everyone on Mars treats you like a 
 .... well... marine, saying things like: "Shouldn't you be guarding something?". But all that is 
 about to change, because you are about to become a beast yourself, having demons for lunch ( not 
 really, because most of the times you run like a madman, trying to get a perfect shot at those 
 horrors ) . If you want to admire the graphics of the game and the places, you should do it now 
 because afterwards, thrust me, you won't have time to this at all!!!
  
  Your first assignment is to report to Sgt. Kelly, who appears to be a cool guy. He tells you that 
 a scientist is gone missing, so your mission is to find him and bring him there without hurting 
 him. Tipical marine mission. But hey, it's catchy, no doubt about it! Before you find him, every 
 guy that you come upon tells you don't want to be here. Some guys are talking that someone has 
 seen a strange creature and one guy tells you: "You're looking for the scientist, right? I'm not 
 sure you want to find him...". No that my friends really scared me. It's because you just don't 
 know what to expect. It's a terrifying mystery, that you discover it mainly because you have to, 
 rather than want to. So, you obviously don't listen to those guys and you find the scientist, who 
 is very human in appearance and behaviour ... at first. He tells you that he knows things that 
 no one can possibly comprehend. Aftere that he says: "The devil is real. I know. I built his cage". 
 And that is the beginning of it. The hell forces are unleashed on Mars. Almost everybody on the 
 stations and on Mars is either killed or turned into zombies. What lays before you is the mission 
 of your life, with one objective: SURVIVE! Hordes of zombies and demons spawn trying to finish 
 you, but you prove yourself powerful and stubborn enough to continue and stop this madness and 
 save the human kind from its worst nightmare.
  
  In my opinion, the first 4 levels are the most horrific of the whole game, because you are not 
 yet used to this dark and scary experience. In time you get used killing hordes of hungry Imps, 
 Maggots, Revenants and tonnes of zombies, but there is allways a tricky door or corner that fools 
 you and makes you scream in terror. The light effects are so good and so convincing, the sounds 
 you hear are so terrifying, that you think well before going any further. At some points, I had 
 to take a break, because the action was so intense and loud asswell. There is not even a minute 
 of complete rest. You never know when an Imp or other villain will spawn right behind you or standing 
 somewhere concealed until you reach it. This game is dark to the extreme. I don't record seeing 
 more than 10 squared meters of lightened area. To make it even more convincing and scary, you have 
 a flashlight that is not attachable to any of your guns. So when you need to see in that many dark 
 areas, you need to lower your weapon and by that, expose yourself to any threat that you may find. 
 Many find this thing weird and stupid, because it is absurd that no weapons are attached with portable 
 flashlights in the year 2145! Maybe it's absurd, but that's what makes the game so tense and so 
 great, the fact that you have to look first and then shoulder your weapon. It's very catchy in 
 my opinion. A very scary scene that I experienced is this: I was walking with my gun ready through 
 the dark and suddenly saw tho orange eyes in the dark. I really spooked out and switched to the 
 flashlight and revealed an even more terrifying picture: a maggot homing down on me! There are 
 lots and lots of outstanding scares, so if you feel like you are faint hearted, don't play this 
 game.
  
  The weapons are effective and cool to use. The pistol, shotgun, machine gun and chain gun, grenades 
 and the rocket launcher are something everybody is used to. But then you get to the high-tech stuff: 
 the plasma gun and BFG-9000. Every weapon is very well designed and they fire and sound so great 
 that makes you think they are real. Another great weapon is the trusty chainsaw. Why trusty? Well, 
 it may sound stupid, but it is an overwhelming weapon against most enemies. If you get in their 
 range, you'll cut them like stake, with minor damage. You need to work on your technique though, 
 in order to take as less damage as possible. However, I don't recommend it against Hellknights, 
 Mancubus or bosses ( except Sarge ) . Melee enthusiasts could use the fist or the flashlight for 
 the ultimate combat, but it is very unlikely that you'll kill something that way other than a zombie. 
 But the best weapon in this game is the Soul Cube. It was apparently build by an ancient civilization 
 from Mars in order to defend themselves from the forces of evil. It has a really freaky appearance, 
 having some sort of face with eyes moving and blades coming out of it. It kills every non-boss 
 enemy with only one hit. It is also the single weapon that has effect against the Cyberdemon, the 
 last boss. When you kill an enemy with it, its health points are passed to you, healing your injuries. 
 This weapon can be used against one enemy at a time. After you use it once, you need to recharge 
 it by killing 5 demons. When you do, the Soul Cube is recharged and lets you know by saying: "Use 
 us!". It is also very clever. If you charge at more enemies, it will attack the strongest of them.
 
  
  The enemies are arguably the best part of the game and the major factor that freaks you out but 
 keeps you playing further. The are so well designed and the appear so real, that makes you scream 
 when you see them crawling or running towards you. Their AI and power depends on the skill level 
 you play on. I played on Marine ( easiest ) and Veteran ( second hardest ) . On Marine, a single 
 enemy is fairly easy to kill, other than Hellknights, Mancubus, Archville and bosses. But when 
 they attack in groups it gets complicated, even at this low skill level. On Veteran you must be 
 very careful where you step, because the enemies are much tougher and they also are cleverer. It 
 requires much more attention and life preservation. The hardest skill level is Nightmare, in which 
 your health constantly drops to a steady 25 %. I haven't played this one, so I don't know about 
 the enemies, but I bet they are a real pest. The game has a lot of foes to show and like I said, 
 they look and behave great!
  
  So, in the end, he whole tension you must endure, the dark corners that wait silently ( or sometimes 
 extremely loudly that makes you ask yourself: should I go further? ) for you, the hesitation entering 
 another room or opening another door because you never know what horror lies after it, makes this 
 game extremely good and worth playing. No doubt in my mind, one the best games ever created. The 
 highly organized levels, superb designed and terrifying demons that watch your every step and wait 
 for you to fall into their traps, well placed scares that makes you jump out of your chair definitely 
 make this a masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  DOOM 3 is one of the best horror games ever!!
  
  since 2004 untail 2008 the game is still great but now lets start over about DOOM 3:
  
  The 
 Good: awesome graphics!! and still in 2008 the game looks amazing, visual effects are great (fire 
 and more) and tons of blood and scary monsters...
  
  The Bad: theres nothing bad!! the game is awesome~!!
  
  this game is in my top 10 horror games 
 (3rd after penumbra overture and penumbra black plauge)
  
  the game is really scary every place you look some monster can jump on you and bite your head off 
 so thats it... remember if you see this game dont think just buy it beacuse this game is really 
 awesome!!
  
  some parts in the game i was so scared that i quit the game (when i played the game at 12 in the 
 night i said to my self: "thats it... im gonna die" this game is really scary and worth plaing 
 + worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allASIANallSEXY
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were OD and so were the gameplay. This was actually my first game for my laptop so 
 i pretty much took of with a great start for my gaming life for my laptop. Also DOOM launched August 
 3rd 04' so its amazes me how good the graphics are compared to these days. Well, in the game there 
 were so many things that gave me goosebumps. i was about to fall of my chair and hide under my 
 kitchen table (i was alone) Now im addicted to this game that makes me unable to fricken sleep 
 peacefully without thinking of a damn monster stalking me right out my room window (if u see outside 
 my window, you could see a dead tree without leaves= [)
  Well, i could always wait for the 4th one TBA...
  BUT, i could still tryout the gameboy version 
 of DOOM.
  Maybe i could bring my brother ( 4 years old) to see me play this game and scare the senses out 
 of him... nehehehehe im so EVIL~ NEHEHEHEH hehehe mu hahahahhha
  ok im done~
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountGrafOrlok
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok, ok, it's all nice looking, gory, gritty, "all-hell-broke-loose", messed up for sure. However 
 - I am not that satisfied (or even slightest happy) about the control... Especially when it comes 
 to, painfully enough, toggle between  That being about 
 a high percentage of the game (since it's so f*cking dark) .. and yes, it scared the crap of me. 
 And I am aware of this being highly effective and got me freaking out for sure! Then, throughout 
 the game, it gets a bit annoying. So for me, this wasn't so fun in the end. BUT! The story elevated 
 the experience a lot for me! Though I can't seem to find the logic why our hero is the only one 
 that doesn't seem to get possessed by the strange/hellish entities. And gets a bit predictable 
 regarding the whereabouts to certain enemies (I'm talking about the Arch Vile)
  
  So, next DOOM (if it's consider it the distant/close future) ... weapons WITH flashlights, pretty 
 please? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Reviewing Doom 3 is like eating your favourite dish at a way too expensive diner. It's a complicated 
 feeling.
  
  On one side, the game does stand out - the dark corridors and the graphics has a certain look and 
 feel to it.
  
  On the other side - the gameplay has its shortcomings, and the borrowed System Shock elements (the 
 audio logs) feels somewhat out of place. 
  
  The story is so-so - Doom 3 tells the story from the original Doom, the 1993 masterpiece, but having 
 played both games, they definately feel like placed in two different worlds. One of the main reasons 
 is, obviously, the advances in computer game technology - shaders, lighting, 3D and faster hardware 
 has made it possible to make scary games in ways, only few people could've imagine back in the 
 early 90s.
  
  The story is mainly about a portal to hell, which has been opened on a research facility on Mars. 
 The portal was accidently opened while researching new technology.
  
  
  Even so, gameplay is what makes a game stand out. And Doom 3 succeeds in a few areas, but also 
 misses some.
  First and foremost: If you want to tell a story, then please, make some effort to do so. Throughout 
 the game a lot of audiologs can be found, and as mentioned before, these audiologs works in much 
 the same way as in the old System Shock games - people caught in the mayhem aboard the station 
 tells about their experiences. The quality of the voice acting in these audiologs is all over the 
 place; some sounds sincere and frightened, while most actually seem like they either don't care, 
 or as if all the problems are standard procedure. 
  
  So, even though a lot of effort has gone into the story, it still feels a little tagged on, and 
 only through the in-game video sequences do you feel immersed; and thats because of the graphical 
 level of the game. 
  
  The graphics still looks sharp. And considering I'm writing this in 2008 - 4 years after Doom 3s 
 release - this is a great accomplishment. 
  Sure, some of the textures looks a bit on the muddy side, and some of the characters looks a bit 
 stiff - but the monster design, and visual design really stands out. Fueled by the engine made 
 by John Carmack, the old code wizard, Doom 3 was a game that helped define the new standards for 
 PC gaming technology at the time (along with some other releases at the time - like Far Cry) .
 
  
  But what about the most important aspect of the game - the actual fighting?
  Well, here comes the hard part. It doesn't really work all that well. Sure, the weapons are fine 
 - you have the standard assortment from pistols, to machineguns, shotguns, rocket launchers - and 
 naturally the BFG weapon. But unfortunately ID decided that the monsters should spawn from everywhere, 
 and preferably behind you, all the time. Apart from being an annoying way to fight monsters, the 
 scary effect of a monster coming from behing is quickly replaced by a more trivial expectancy. 
 It also breaks up the pace, and makes it important for the player to memorize the precise location 
 of the monsters spawning points - because usually they teleport themselves into the fight. 
  Or they hide in closets behind you. Or they jump out of hidden walls ... behind you. Or they jump 
 in on you from the doors you just opened... Well, you get the point.
  
  This kind of scripted monster behaviour, has made it all the more clear to other developers, that 
 the AI of monsters should be better, so they can fight on their own, in a more natural manner, 
 without the aid of the programmers.
  
  To sum it up: Doom 3 has some highs and some lows, it is definately a game that FPS fans should 
 play, as it has some rewarding scenes. But when factoring in the problems with the game, it is 
 not a masterpiece, rather a game with its own distinct feel. A mixture between old-school gameplay 
 and present-day technology.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  Doom started FPS gameing and it's been a bg part of the genre ever since. Doom 3 is the logical 
 step from doom 2 offering the sam style of run and survival horror, though it doesn't anything 
 new or exciting like Half life 2, or Call of duty, instead it sticks to the tried and true doom 
 formula.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Really the graphics engine is fuel for the doom 3 fire. Even now in 08 doom 3 looks amazing with 
 great looking demons and lots of blood and guts. The game also has awesome weopons that bot look 
 and function smooth.
  
  Sound 8/10
  Basic sound effects and voice acting dominate the sound. But story was never played a big role 
 in doom so it's easy to oerlook.
  
  Value 8/10
  A 20 hour storyline is all your going to get in doom 3 since online is dead and even if you can 
 manage to find a game it's very bare bones stuff with zero depth.
  
  The good 
  Intence singe player brings back the classic doom, Amazing graphics that look great even 4 years 
 later.
  
  The bad 
  Its extremely straightforward, Story is little more then an excuse to put a marine in hells way, Online 
 is dead and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameralexander0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the best Doom of its series for multiple reasons. First its engine makes it have good 
 graphics and gameplay. The weapons are stronger and funner to use. From the pistol, to the new 
 BFG 9000. Because it is 3-D, the explosions are much better, the blood is more realistic as well 
 as the injuries enemies plus allies are better designed. Unlike in the classic Doom games, you 
 can interact with your allies but you cannot talk to them. Instead of picking up keycards to open 
 up doors, you must find Personnel Data Assistant [PDA] to unlock certain doors. There are more 
 monsters to elimate. Most of them are from the classic Doom games but there are alot of new things 
 to kill. In this game, instead of fighting the creatures of Hell on the Martian moons of Phobos 
 and Deimos aand Earth, you will fight them on Mars itself and you will get to fight in Hell just 
 like any other Doom. In this new battle in Hell, there is a new weapon to get: The Soul Cube. Once 
 again the Doomguy will be a hero. I would recommend this game to anybody who loves sci-fi/horror 
 first-person shooter games. The only complaint I have is how dark it can be and how the flashlight 
 isn't on a gun. Also play the expansion pack Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer9191
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  To begin this game really keeps you no your toes, it has you checking every corner of your screen 
 with your flashlight. This is really dark game with loads or excitement and fun. The monsters really 
 fit the game, and are kind of tough to beat. The thing that made these foes though to beat was 
 that they would spawn all around and you and you would have to be shooting like crazy not to be 
 killed. There are many different types of monsters with my favorite being the hell knight, which 
 is one very big and dangerous demon. The graphics are something that really made me enjoy playing 
 this game. The only thing that I found frustrating was remembering the codes to the lockers that 
 contained extra ammunition and armor. That was probably the only thing that I didn't like in the 
 game, everything else was well done. I think that the next installment of doom will be even better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  The original Doom games are my favourite games. I still open up zDoom and blast demons through 
 new, user crated levels. Sometimes I blast other creatures, through new, user created TCs. Whatever 
 the case, Doom is a masterpiece that people should still play. But what about Doom 3?
  
  Doom 3 plays like Doom 1 in 2 only in that there are demons, and you must shoot them. While Doom 
 3 has this mechanic, it is much slower paced. Often times the PDA and other things break up the 
 action and slow it down. The environments don't help the pacing, in fact, they make it slower by 
 being drab and grey. In fact, theres a keyword there: Grey. Grey is an ugly colour, yet EVERYTHING 
 in Doom 3 is Grey. I remember when Doom 3 came out everyone was 'OMFG AMAZING GRAPHICS!' and while 
 the environments looked nice and the animation and shadowing was great, the lack of COLOUR killed 
 the graphics. Get used to gray, silver, blue and red. They are the only colours in this crayon 
 box. Theres another small gripe. Obviously, they can do red, but why are even THE CACODEMONS GREY!!? 
 Cacodemons were Infamous for being big, floating RED balls.
  
  Okay, so you are probably thinking: "Why did this gal give Doom 3 a good rating when she's mostly 
 been whining?!" The reason why... Doom 3 will immerse you. The atmosphere is amazing. Not in the 
 sense of 'scary'. Doom 3 is not scary, its scares are dull and predictable. The only scary moments 
 are with some of the ghosts that inhabit Mars City, especially the 'They took my baby' ghost. The 
 thing that makes the atmosphere great is how MUCH detail was put into this Sci-fi universe. There 
 are moments where you just stand, dumbstruck at the thing happening before you where you go 'Wow.' 
 Despite bland colour palettes and walls, whenever you find a new piece of technology in the UAC 
 base, you HAVE to investigate it. They are so interesting, and thoughtful. This is one of the things 
 that makes Doom 3 great.
  
  Another thing, is just that even 15 years after the original doom and 4 years after Doom 3, Blasting 
 demons is still good ol' fashioned fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TugaSoldatTV
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I played Doom 3 and i will make a simple list.
  
  THE GOOD THINGS ABOUT DOOM 3:
  
  -Great graphics: in fact, even in the lowest definitions, they look quite amazing, with lot of 
 detail. The monsters are also very well detailed.
  
  -Interactive gameplay: i personally liked the way you open doors, used PDA's, digitized codes to 
 open cabinets, pushed buttons etc... I think it really fitted on Doom 3
  
  -HUGE level list: There are so many levels on Doom 3... i was never expecting this.
  
  
  NOW 
 HERES THE BAD THINGS ABOUT THE GAME:
  
  -TO DAMN DARK: everyone agrees with me. 98% of the levels consist in darkness. Its supposed to 
 be more scary this way.... but it annoys me. And the "force to switch flashlight to weapon tactic?" 
 Stupid.
  
  -SAME OLD TACTICS: monsters spawn when you pick items; monsters spawn on your back, monsters spawn 
 when you open doors, an Imp spawns 99% of the time, monsters spawn in rooms full of items. How 
 is that scary????
  
  -SAME ENVIRONMENT: you spend 99.9% of your game time in labs. Only the other 0.01% you spend on 
 other places
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kherak
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  -Prelude:
  We usually review a game based on it's graphics, gameplay, sound, story and characters. Unusually 
 you'll review a game by the reactions of post-gameplay... but iI did. People say that strange things 
 happen when you play this game. It's so persuasive that past night I had strange visions, just 
 because I've played the game before sleeping. I got nightmares while sleeping and woke up. 
  -Review:
  Man! The execution of this game is almost perfect, the levels are masterpieces, very 
 detailed and with a realism that sometimes is hard to believe that it's a game. The game loses 
 a little in sound. The weapon sounds aren't that good. They look like that they were copied from 
 a sample CD. Despite the weapons the ambiance is scary. Screams in the right place make the game 
 creepy. Other strange sounds and that voices complete the background. Well executed characters, 
 but not so well. They look a little square from a close perspective. Lighting owns adding more 
 horror to the maps and we can't forget that real-time shadows which add a more convincing realism 
 level to the game. The story... simple: find out what's going on in the UAC base, go to Hell (literally) 
 and kill the boss. Special effects: explosions are disappointing, I expected more. But the rest 
 is just ok.
  -Conclusion: this game is worth playing. But be advised: only the strong will finish it. Try to 
 don't play with the lights out, ok? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  doom was one of the first fps ever made the story goes as the same a hellgate appears in mars city 
 due to a teleporter expirement and everyone is turning into zombies and monsters appear, surly 
 it doesnt sound like the best story ever and the fact that you are just one marine and you got 
 to survive, but the original thing in doom 3 is that just like system shock 2 you collect pda an 
 hear logs of crew members and get keycodes to pen doors letter on the story will turn out to be 
 a lot more than what you have expected, i wont spoil the story lets just say that it worths it! 
 
  
  Doom 3 is not a fps or a scary fps mostly it works like these move in small areas, demons will 
 teleport in and you gonna have to use SHIFT to move fast and dodge attacks by using shift and left 
 or right you can move in difirent directions while the imp demon is throwing fireballs at you that 
 monster is pretty annoying it jumps at you, well thats why its called survival game so you gonna 
 have to get used to the gameplay which is awesome later on eg move fast doge left right run towards 
 enemy shoot with the shotgun fast!
  
  The ai is pretty smart one of the smartest they move fast doge attacks and the zombie marines with 
 guns are pretty tough, am not happy with how accurate they are that is because they are possed 
 by a lost soul (enemy type)
  in any case gameplay aint slick all the times eg some areas are dark, so you got to press F every 
 now and then to use flashlight and see whats up ahead, and then switch back to weapon ( i use to 
 do that with weapons i assign eg G grenade to quick throw them!) So we v gone to mars build labs 
 
  invented the liquidized plasma gun and BFG (probably BIG "F" GUN )
  but we still dont know how to attach a flash light to our guns! in any case another thing is that 
 the shotgun SUCKS i mean it SUCKS dont sue it much unless you stick it to someones head , eg i 
 shoot once and i see three shots to the upper left and 4 to the lower right, duh by 2000 we supose 
 to stabilize its fire! in any case the res of the weapons are well balnced and fun to use!
  
  Doom 3 has a nice progression, mainly it may be FEAR as an idea but it has much better levels 
 some cutscenes and overally doesnt feel boring, also its a VERY LONG GAME am not kidding, lets 
 just say that crysis ha 11 levels, well doom 3 has about 27 levels DUH yeah so might wanna invest 
 on a buy! Another cool thing about doom 3 is the enmy types propably some of the best enemy types 
 in a fps, Now as for being hard or scary well no youll find health and ammo everywhere eg 600 capacity 
 for the machinegun a lot of ammo so not to worry, about being scary well not really mostly you 
 can say that it ahs some impressive graphs for 2004 and cool shadows and detail but plenty of polygons 
 however its not scary its a pretty good game once you get the hang of it maybe not one of the best 
 ever but a pretty good one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Are you afraid of the dark? What about aliens? Does the thought of demons terrify you? Does knowing 
 that hell exists keep you up at night? Have you experienced a feeling of dread and panic when thinking 
 about guns? And do badly designed levels turn you into a sobbing child?
  
  If you answered "yes" to any of these, then you are either going to love or hate Doom 3. Doom 3 
 is a first person shooter about a marine on Mars who discovers Hell through alien artifacts. That's 
 the gist of it. The story, honestly, is a little.."meh" But the gameplay is a lot...."WOW".
  
  Why? Because it is legitimately scary. The game is set up in such a way that you will be terrified 
 of the dark every step of the way. Sure you have an arsenal of weaponry that would get you arrested 
 anywhere in the country, but that's not enough to make you feel safe in the mysterious halls, and 
 barracks of the Mars installation. Not when demons are coming in from a portal to hell. Not when 
 zombies are lurking behind every corner. Not when blood is smeared on pretty much everything. 
 
  
  I honestly haven't been this scared playing a game in a long time. The pacing is great. As you 
 progress into the game, you find that hell is taking over more and more of the installation. And 
 it's VERY effective. It gets downright creepy at parts. Making you shiver. The graphics are great, 
 as are the designs... making everything so scary that you'll want to cry. Maybe I'm a wuss, but 
 it was a joyfully scary experience. I actually was breathing hard at a few places (this may or 
 may not be due to the fact that I was playing at night in the dark, after accidentally summoning 
 satan..... it's a long story) .
  
  Overall, the game is typical of what you would find in an FPS, cool guns, lots of corners, finding 
 ammo, lot's of dying.... that sort of thing. It's just done artfully and skillfully.... well, for 
 the most part.
  
  The one problem with the game is there are a few design flaws. There were more than a couple of 
 times where I had NO idea where to go or what to do. Which caused frustration, which caused me 
 wasting ammo on shooting everything in sight in rage. Plus, there are a few places where the game 
 designers thought they were making a platformer, and not a first person shooter. This again, caused 
 more wasted ammo, and made ME the scariest thing in the game as I started cursing in tongues. 
 
  
  Another problem everyone seems to complain about, is the idea that you can't have a flashlight 
 on your gun. So if you want to see what's in the dark, you have to switch to the flashlight. At 
 first I hated this. But as I played more and more, I liked the idea... because it makes it that 
 much scarier to have to put your gun away, and then look in the dark, and pray to god almighty 
 that something isn't waiting there to eat your brains and marry your daughter.
  
  But despite those few flaws, this game is awesome. It's scary. It's pretty. It's feels goods to 
 plays. So if you're afraid of things like the dark and hell and aliens, I highly recommend playing 
 this game. If you're afraid of things like clowns and pickles, might I recommend a day care center. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theguardian551
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  This game is NOT meant to be the most realistic shooter ever. It has been made to scare people 
 to death. Having to switch from your flashlight to you weapon and shooting into darkness is to 
 create tension, the Holy Grail of horror games. This game plays on our natural fear of the dark 
 and the unknown, and you know what? It does it superbly. Also, if this game doesn't scare you, 
 it will make you cringe at some of the gore this game has to offer. Nice! Id havn't strayed away 
 from the classic Doom experience we all know and love. Shoot anything that moves!
  
  The graphics are good for its time and the lighting effects are one of the reasons this game is 
 so good. The story isn't amazing and most of your objectives are to just get to the next level. 
 AND I DON'T CARE! When a game looks that good and cares the crap out of you, its has to be worth 
 playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldeneye103X2
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 review
  
  Yes doom 3 is a scary game and it shows. Oh it so shows in the most horrible ways. When you start 
 the game, you're new to a marine thing or something, but then hell is unleashed and you have to 
 escape and shoot anything that moves. All the weapons work great and everything is scary. For example, 
 I was approaching a hanging corpse when suddenly it swiftly fell. It was seriously terrifying, 
 but I approached another corpse, and it got up. I suddenly shot it scared. Then I entered a toilet 
 and I looked in the mirror and then there weren't toilets behind me but a red background and there 
 was a buzzing noise. Okay, so I'm not exactly reviewing as much as telling horror stories, but 
 that's what doom 3 is about. What I don't get is that the guards are trying to shoot you. You're 
 on THEIR side. The setting is a base on mars so it has that feel. Every room is full of pipes and 
 blood and every room is ready to scare you. Every room is filled with soldiers or zombies, or, 
 weird, things which shoot fireballs. Every room is small and cramped. Basically, you know that 
 level in halo 3, crows nest? Same thing. Overall, doom 3 is a really scary game and a great alternative 
 from condemned 2. If you enjoy shooting things in the dark, then get this game. If you don't enjoy 
 getting scared, then you're a wuss, and you're missing out on an experience.
  
  8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Explode50
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  I remember playing the old doom games on PC, I hated the SNES versions. Now they finally made a 
 3D version that no longer shows your face, armor, health, keys, and other stuff in grey boxes. 
 They also eliminated the keys and put codes. Now, I think it's annoying that you have to listen 
 to messages, I hate it so much that I don't care for them anymore. Now, to the length of the game.
 
  
  This game is extremely long, and it gets extremely boring. Now other people might disagree with 
 me but I think it is longer than fable. The weapons in doom 3 are not creative. But the fun of 
 killing demons from hell, great online, scary as hell game play, use of the flashlight, the detailed 
 backgrounds, areas, and enemies is why I decided to make my first review on it :D. Just like I 
 do with my recent tv. com reviews, it's time to rate it!
  
  Gameplay: Like any first person shooter-8.4
  Story: Very doom-like, but that doesn't mean it's 
 good: 7.7
  Enemies AI: There actually really smart, and they hide in great places-10
  Online play: Addictive-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danb0
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 starts off as you travel to some base on Mars occupied by the UAC to do marine duties or 
 whatever. When you get there, you're free to walk around and explore the base in a somewhat linear, 
 limited fashion. Pretty soon, everything goes awry and the forces of hell are once again wreaking 
 havoc on humanity.
  
  After 4 years, the graphics in Doom 3 are still quite remarkable. The dynamic lighting really lends 
 to the atmosphere. In fact, lighting contributes quite a bit to the mood of this game. Often you 
 won't be able to see as there will be areas of complete darkness so this is the time you whip out 
 your trusty flashlight. Why an advanced space-marine from the year 2145 has to carry around a handheld 
 flashlight is beyond me but the rest of the game wouldn't have worked as well without it. There 
 were times when you are alone in a long dark room with only a single, weak light source with imps 
 hiding behind the shadows. In those situations you can't help but feel the tension and isolation 
 as you progress through the twisted Mars base.
  
  I loved the art style in Doom 3. The environment in which you play was conveyed very well and although 
 the setting may not be all the unique, the way in which it was presented is. I haven't encountered 
 a great deal of games that place as much emphasis on light and shadow as Doom 3 does. The creature 
 designs and animations were also fantastic. Seeing imps crawl around over the ceiling or in front 
 of a window is especially creepy and enemies such as the cherubs, pinkies, spiders and fire/chainsaw 
 zombies each have their own distinct personalities which are both terrifying and individual. Hell 
 knights are quite a sight to behold and are very intimidating.
  
  Another contributor to the immersive experience is the sound. There is plenty of ambient noise 
 with machines working all throughout the base and just general background noise that makes you 
 feel like you are fighting your way deep out of something awful. The enemies all sound nasty and 
 hellish but the weapons sound a bit weak. A bit more punch and definition in the weapon sounds 
 would have made the action more compelling.
  
  The tone Doom 3 tries to set is one of horror. There are however, severely contrasting flavours 
 thrown into the game experience. On the one level you have the flashlight which you cannot hold 
 a weapon while using. So this constitutes an air of helplessness. You have the audio logs which 
 are quite eerie and I feel do the best job of keeping a tense atmosphere where you are at times 
 genuinely scared but also interested to learn the plight of the various employees taken by the 
 disaster. Finally, you have the combat which effectively does away with the whole horror theme 
 and dumps a big fat pile of old-school FPS and poor AI into the mix for good measure. Of course 
 this throws off the whole balance of the game and what could have been a genuinely scary survival 
 horror turns into a "bark is worse than its bite" kind of situation.
  
  Several advancements have been made since the last entry in the series- notably the areas of graphics, 
 story, sound, presentation and execution. Combat however tries to have the best of both worlds 
 by attempting to combine the old-school Doom run and gun action with the tactical cover systems 
 of modern shooters. The AI fails to pull this off on a number of occasions. Simply put, if an enemy 
 sees you they will first shoot at you then if you hide, they will come after you, so all that remains 
 in terms of tactics is to hide behind the nearest object with a shotgun and blast away. Later on 
 in the game, enemies will make use of cover, but frequently you'll find they leave body parts exposed 
 (i. e. their head) which all but voids any perceived benefits of using cover. As a saving grace, 
 once you start to tackle more powerful enemies the combat can become more interesting, albeit only 
 due to the fact that they can take and dish out more damage.
  
  A further bane to the success of the combat and the horror theme is the placement of enemies. Often 
 you'll find a door will magically open up as soon as you find a cache of supplies and out pops 
 an enemy from a hidden broom closet. This is not at all realistic and actually becomes quite predictable. 
 You'll learn to recognise the secret door sound and instinctively know to turn around and shoot 
 whatever happened to be hiding inside that very small seemingly inaccessible space. You can learn 
 to predict when and where certain spawns will occur too. For example, if you enter a room with 
 a long hallway you can expect a marine zombie to come rushing through the door right in front of 
 you. If you enter a room where there is a large open space you can expect flaming skulls and cacodemons 
 to attack you. Whenever an imp spawns in front of you, you can be sure that another will come up 
 from behind as well. It's these kind of things that ruin the immersion in the game and remind you 
 what you're dealing with- a standard shooter.
  
  Though the combat is mediocre I did enjoy the story. You have to go through your fellow employees 
 (most dead and some not) PDA's to understand the story but it is well worth it. Some of the audio 
 logs are down right disturbing like one in the Delta Labs where a physician documents the deterioration 
 of his subject's mind and body. You're standing in some medical examination room completely isolated 
 listening to some guy losing his mind. It does feel a bit like System Shock 2 with people's minds 
 degrading and the continuous collecting of PDA's but I don't mind this form of story telling. It 
 is usually not forced on you- you're free to find out as much or as little as you want about the 
 disaster and the events leading up to it. However, if you want to pick up all the extra weapons 
 and ammo early in the game it pays to listen to the logs and go through emails.
  
  Towards the end the story kind of degenerates and the focus shifts more to combat and as such the 
 game goes downhill basically after you've returned from hell. Had it continued on the same path 
 it was on in Delta Labs I feel this could have been an excellent game.
  
  To get the best out of Doom 3 it is necessary to not only follow the story but also to play it 
 in the dark, alone and with headphones. It's only in this sort of environment that you'll get the 
 full impact and understand the author's intention. To a player who just rushed through the game 
 ignoring all the extra little touches that have been thrown in there and trying to play it like 
 the earlier entries in the Doom franchise Doom 3 will be a disappointment. It is not the same kind 
 of game and may have been better off had it not been tied to the original series.
  
  The biggest problem Doom 3 has is trying to cater to the old and new players. If they had simply 
 thrown away the Doom 3 moniker and gone more on the survival-horror side of things this game would 
 have received a lot more merit for things other than its graphics. The horror and mediocre combat 
 do not mix well together. There is a major clash when you hear about a fragile human mind being 
 torn apart and the many casualties that tried to bring back specimens from the other side and then 
 you, an average space marine, easily make it through the base without a trouble in sight, blasting 
 away hundreds of demons like it's child's play.
  
  Despite its imperfections, Doom 3 is still an enjoyable experience and managed to make enough of 
 an impression on me to do a serious review of it. Had it done away with the traditions of the earlier 
 Doom games (and perhaps the shooter genre) it would have been a much better game and a far more 
 memorable experience. As it stands, Doom 3 succeeds more often than it fails and I feel was time 
 well spent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_rock_74
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the third part of Doom Series and it jump very long & far different from the past Doom 
 games 1 & 2 ON PC . . . DOOM 3 got a wonderful graphics (just working on NVIDIA VGA card ) the 
 details of zombies + MARS PLANET + weapons are cool . . . The story took place on Mars when some 
 freaking doors opened in science labs , monster , zombies and whatever come out and start to kill 
 everyone . . . Gameplay is depend Mainly on taking weapons . . . killing monsters & zombies . . 
 . finding ways to open doors . . . its really really really creepy game and want an creepy horror 
 game try Doom 3. So if you like the great gameplay games and you love scary things i think this 
 will be a great game for ages13-over because you will not want a kid 7 playing it because they 
 will have nightmares trust me. Thanx for reading bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davideko
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  This is an outstanding game, and deffinitly the best in its gener!! Your a marine trained for combat, 
 and send to a Mars base out of the earths surface. Your task seems easy, but then suddenlly all 
 hell broke up, and you are the only one that can prevent Hell from reaching earth; grab any ammo 
 and weapon you can; you will need all the arsenal you can faind. HELL IS HERE!!
  When you first play the game, you will see how detail and beautifull graphics it have enven for 
 this days. All the detail put into the game is amazing. It's very violent and contain lots of blood 
 and gore (a tunnel full of blood and dead bodies, saying: Die, Suffer... in every wall) and it 
 will scare you not onece!
  A must buy for horror/scary gamers lovers. It's combat is tough, and you nedd to be very fast to 
 win against the unspekable forces of hell. You won't have many health points so be careful in every 
 step you make, the demons may pop up from every corner of the base. The ammo is limited too, so 
 don't shoot like a freak! Use it wiselly! The level design may look a little bit repetitive from 
 time to time, it all take place in this one huge base, it's too short too, you can pass the game 
 in 2 days, if you play it all the day... But it's a perfect choise for thouse who want to be scared 
 at night :) A MUST BUY FOR EVERYONE!!!!!! It's just awsome!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo for this game a while back, but didn't get it until recently. it's a good shooter 
 with graphics that were groundbreaking at the time of release, and they can still hold their own 
 today. the combat is decent enough, as you plough your way through wave after wave of zombies and 
 other crazy creatures. the story isn't a big part of this game, so i won't say anything about it, 
 the levels are usually pretty good, although they are occasionally repatative and confusing. the 
 dificulty is standard. theres not much else to say about this game, other than the fact that it 
 relies of shock horror to keep you on the edge of your seat. the horror in this game is pretty 
 standard, less phsycological and more shock, which basically means that you will be scared by zombies 
 popping out of dark corners. it still works well with the game, and relaxing while playing this 
 one is somthing you won't be doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I do not believe I have ever played a shooter with as much of a nostalgic punch as Doom 3. Despite 
 some repetetive action and the overbearing use of the flashlight Doom 3 is a wonderful game that 
 fans of the original will surely love.
  
  Overall Doom 3 is the classic Doom at the core, but the developer added several new features to 
 the game to make it awesome. You are a marine sent to Mars to work in the UAC (Union Aerospace 
 Corporation) , and as soon as the game begins you have this uneasy gut feeling that something is 
 about to go terribly wrong. There is just this subtle aura of tension that is seemingly dangerously 
 close to snapping, and you have no clue as to when or how it will happen. And without spilling 
 any story whatsoever I'll stop there, but needless to say the story is engrossing. Doom 3 is much 
 like its DOS relatives in the way that it is a pure shooter through and through, and honestly it's 
 not much else. There are standard cutscenes, radio transmissions, locked doors which need keys, 
 etc. There's even a thing called a PDA which allows you to download audio logs from personnel around 
 the base giving chilling testimonies of some of the odd things that were going on. You can also 
 download video files, but from what I've seen they are nothing special. The PDA also serves as 
 your objective tracker and security clearance, which can be acquired by finding other peoples' 
 PDAs. After the PDA Doom 3 is a pure shooter in every sense of the statement. Generally you have 
 to either find a door which may be locked, then find the PDA of the person with the security clearance, 
 then go back to the door and pass through it. Sometimes you may have to find a computer and activate 
 something in order to complete an objective. Unfortunately you will sometimes just be told where 
 to go but not exactly how to reach the destination, so there's actually quite a bit of backtracking 
 to be done. The weapon selection in this game are quite standard at first, but they soon move into 
 much heavier firepower with some classic guns making a reappearance. You begin with nothing but 
 your fists until the story really picks up, but then you are given a pistol and you eventually 
 find a shotgun after the game officially gets going. Some may call the weapon selection "cookie-cutter" 
 material, but I believe the original Doom started the same way and indeed inspired masses of other 
 shooters in the same way, so Doom 3 is actually not a "cookie-cutter" game. Other classic weapons 
 make an appearance as well and there is even a new weapon introduced to the Doom universe: grenades. 
 Weapons perform just how you would expect: the pistol is weak for the most part, the shotgun rules 
 in close range, and grenades are great for clearing out enemies, etc., etc., etc. Doom 3 is a great 
 shooter with some really sweet action, but unfortunately that action can become pretty tedious 
 after a while. The game implements the frequent use of the flashlight, which the concept in itself 
 isn't bad, but due to its almost frequent use it makes moving through pitch black levels extremely 
 annoying. I'm going to tie-in a problem involving a flashlight and the graphics so the reader can 
 understand my issue with it. Like I mentioned before the flashlight is a great idea; it adds to 
 the tension while wandering the demon-infested base. However, there are prolonged instances where 
 the flashlight is necessary because the level is so darn dark. When using it you must stare "down" 
 this "tunnel" at the light, which is the flashlight's beam, and you can see little else. Using 
 it from time to time is okay, but for large portions or entire levels it can be really tiresome. 
 And to make things worse is when enemies come in and you have to either hold the light up so you 
 can see them or take shots in the dark and hopefully hit/kill something. You can melee attack with 
 the butt of the flashlight but it's close to useless against most of the foes. This aspect also 
 makes finding your objective a little more complicated as you're trying to find a door/PDA in pitch 
 black while juggling your flashlight and weapon. This element could have been fixed if a simple 
 radar system was added just to make finding a goal easier rather than run around in the dark. Overall 
 Doom 3's gameplay is very compelling with a cool, captivating story with enough nostalgic power 
 to make it worthwhile.
  
  Graphics by far is the most amazing aspect of Doom 3 with environments, enemy design, weapon models, 
 and cinematics. Environments are incredible; often they will be multi-leveled and offer several 
 different routes for the player to take, though each may not lead to the objective. After the story 
 gets going you will see frazzled computer systems going awry, unmanned machinery, broken doors, 
 damaged ceilings, bloody human body parts, and just so many other things that contribute to the 
 horrific environment as a whole. Enemies are no longer the little unthreatening sprites you may 
 be used to from the original; they are full-blown beasts from the depths of hell itself that come 
 in the forms of multi-eyed fire-shooting drones to human head/arachnid spiders that attack in groups. 
 Aside from these hellish incarnations other equally demonic denizens lurk in the dark like zombified 
 marines and mutant scientists. Enemy models look quite frightening, and more often than not you 
 will see a zombie or three trudge out of some dark corner ready to kill you. I mentioned the flashlight 
 in the gameplay section, and I believe I don't need to expand any more on my greivance with the 
 flashlight mechanic. The game's cinematics provide some nice backstory as to who and what is involved 
 in the story, and they are all done pretty well even though there are relatively few. Overall graphics 
 take the 1st place medal of Doom 3's whole quality.
  
  Sound doesn't always make or break a game, but this game's case it certainly makes it. Just imagine 
 for a second wandering around in almost complete blackness with the faint sound of machinery working, 
 and suddenly hearing what sounds like a baby crying somewhere off in the distance. When it comes 
 to games I don't scare easily; I'm used to those kinds of games, but I must be honest here: Doom 
 3 sometimes scares the crap out of me. All of these little sounds throughout the levels really 
 add to the experience, and they are done very well. Weapon sounds are also done very well as they 
 sound like they would hurt in the case of the rocket launcher or the shotgun, and many of the weapons 
 sound futuristic as they should. Voice work has been done at an above-average level; actors play 
 their parts convincingly enough to make the story flow smoothly. Above all sound in Doom 3 has 
 been done enormously well and this element alone makes Doom 3 one heck of a scary game.
  
  Doom 3's value is easily tops in just about every area. I mentioned it has this strong nostalgic 
 punch that fans will surely accept into the Doom universe as the best Doom game. Despite the sometimes 
 annoying flashlight aspect the game is quite possibly one of the most engrossing first-person-shooter 
 games I've ever played. A great futuristic theme on Mars, a supernatural attack from the depths 
 of hell, and a lone marine hoping to warn mankind of an impending doom (no pun intended) . Doom 
 3 is certainly worth its purchase in just about every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KidKombo
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  Well, i was one of those people who was sucked into the massive hype this title produced, and rightly 
 so, as the preceding titles Doom & Doom 2, were revolutionary games that rocked the gaming industry 
 and changed PC gaming forever. i lined up with the rest of the eager beavers, just salivating at 
 the thought of experiencing another milestone in gaming history. several nights later, when the 
 single player portion was done and dusted, i sat there and reminisced on the experience... while 
 definitely not a disappointment, the game had just missed that extra *something* that would have 
 elevated it to a classic. Lets examine the different elements of the game.
  
  Atmosphere 10/10: well i guess this is a mixture of the graphics/sound and how their combination 
 has an effect on the gamer. For me, the atmosphere ID managed to create is simply stunning. The 
 use of darkness and light was something never experienced before in a game, and it TRULY sucks 
 you into the world on screen. to truly experience this game, you must play with the lights off 
 and wearing headphones. you will feel as if you are tip-toeing around the seemingly deserted base, 
 straining to see as you point your torch around every corner, ears alert for sounds; as annoying 
 as it first seemed, with repeated plays i began to appreciate the amazing feeling it gives the 
 gamer. This aint Half-Life, where you can run around and just burst into a room and blaze away. 
 the atmosphere of the gaming world created by ID is the single greatest thing about the game.
 
  
  Graphics 9/10: Amazing. When not blanketed in inky darkness, the attention to detail of the corridors 
 and rooms you walk through, and the bleeping/sparking machinery contained within them is highly 
 impressive. there aint much i can fault with the graphics in this game.
  
  Sound 8/10: Sounds are a very important part of the game. you will need to hone your ears to pickup 
 all the different sounds of the Doom 3 world if you hope to survive. The sounds of radio crackle 
 alert you to approaching enemy troops, the growl you hear a split second before an imp jumps out 
 of the shadows and hurls a vicious fireball in your direction... to know these sounds and where 
 they emanate from can be the difference between life and death for your marine. the weapon sounds 
 are all very satisfying as well, i love the big whirring of the midi-gun, and the chunky boom of 
 the shotgun.
  
  Gameplay 8/10: Repetition. its what killed this game. walk into a dimly lit room, have an imp jump 
 out from some hidden panel in the wall and lob a fireball at you, dodge it and pump 2 shotgun shells 
 into it. rinse. repeat. the game just gets so repetitive sometimes it can get, well if not boring, 
 then definitely lacking inspiration in how the gun battles are played out. maybe im being harsh 
 but i can only play Doom 3 for a couple hours at a time before i just feel as if im going through 
 the motions. This accusation could arguably be leveled at any FPS, yet its just something i really 
 felt more than other games of the genre. whereas going through half life is amazing in how fresh 
 and unique and enjoyable each separate area of the game is, doom 3 just seems to lack this quality. 
 its a miracle that the aforementioned graphics and sounds, and the amazing atmosphere of the game 
 can almost elevate it to classic-status, even with these shortcomings. the story as well, i felt 
 was uninspired, rudimentary and rather forgettable; indeed as i sit here after completing the game 
 recently i find myself struggling to remember exactly what happened on the base, what the crux 
 of the story was. some dude is doing crazy experiments on a base on mars, you arrive just as he 
 opens some portal to a demon world, the demons invade the base. you mop up the mess. but hell, 
 stories are important for an RPG, not for an action based FPS, so this is a minor complaint. Replayability, 
 however is good, and despite the flaws ive described previously, i still find myself coming back 
 for another play through every year or so. 
  
  Final Judgement 8.6/10: It didnt shake the FPS genre to its core like a game like half-life did, 
 but Doom 3 is a game that has such a unique atmosphere to it, that i feel compelled to re-visit 
 it on a fairly regular basis. the gameplay is somewhat repetitive, and the story is average, but 
 otherwise this is a superior FPS with a great amount of love and attention to detail obviously 
 put into it. it is highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  A shooter thats guaranteed to maybe make you jump a few times.
  
  Doom 3 puts you in the shoes of a Marine whos been sent to mars since there beefing up the security 
 since they lost of a few of their "Guys" down there. The game tries to start out a bit like most 
 disaster movies start or how like Half life started... everything seems normal until one thing 
 goes wrong and boom... your own personal hell starts. Except in Doom 3 its not your personal hell 
 its literal hell since the opponents themselves are spawned from the dark armpits of satan himself.
 
  
  The games graphics themselves are beautiful in a grotesque kind of way. It works well with the 
 atmosphere of the game with reflections, shadows and insane amounts of darkness which only can 
 be lit with the power of your torch. The darkness can be a bit overwhelming at times since it is 
 pure pitch black. Although the darkness at first is scary you do get used to the fact you might 
 as well be playing the whole game with no lighting. The gameplay is well.... repetative. Your trying 
 to survive basically, which means getting the biggest weapons you can find carrying as much ammo 
 as you can hold in your bottomless pockets and emptying clips into zombies faces.... its basically 
 that. I feel they have tried to hard to remake a kind of system shock feel due to the fact of its 
 use of Voice logs and atmosphere of hearing things shouting "help me". There isnt much to say about 
 the game since theres not much to it, yes it is skid mark scary... when you first play but its 
 just another shooter with a big bulky action hero that dosnt say anything and shoots his way through 
 everything while **** his pants while laughing in the face of danger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baazigar_2000
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  This was one of those games that had me running back and forth to the game shop... well, the frist 
 few weeks were of doubt, as I did not fully appreciate the wonderful gameplay... but only when I 
 read the reviews adn saw the footage, did this horror flick grab me by the coat and tug me into 
 the screen.......
  
  Everything abou this game is wonderful....
  
  Firstly let me talk about the graphics.... my computer is one of ones that runs at a pretty slow 
 pace with the majority of games, post-2003... however a bit of tinkering around with settings for 
 Doom 3 put my mind at ease.... although I still think theres room fro improvement, coz the screen 
 slows down at times, e. g. when a blood-curdling enemy leaps out in front of you!!!
  
  Now talking about blood curdlers.... the selection of enemies is proper awe-inspiring... even when 
 you are installing the game, the screen shots freak you out somewhat.... and you are left wondering 
 'gosh, what have i got myself into' or something like 'ooooh... i dont wanna meet you on a dark 
 night out'....... the way each enemy comes at you is different, and very effective at making your 
 heart jump about like popcorn (in a popcorn machine, of course, not on the Asda shevles!!!) .....
 
  
  The lead character, at times, looks somewhat like Tommy Lee Jones, but thats my opinion I guess. 
 He certainlly has a good loada weapons at his disposal to make chutney out of even the most ferocious 
 of ghastly ghouls.... and now that i have mentioned chutney, not only do the malicious monsters 
 fry, explode, pop, etc, upon weaponary impact.... if you do a last minute job (to make sure the 
 dudes' really hit the deck) e. g. on one of the zombies, you may see bits of bone, ligament, bodily 
 organs, and cranial hemispheres fly here, there and everywhere..... ah, the delights of gory glory 
 in an alien story!!!!!!!! 
  
  The music most of the time is eeeeeeriiiiiiieeeee and makes you really tick as to what may happen 
 next... will it be a ferocious monster round the next corner??? will something bizzarley boo-boo 
 crash through the ceiling??? or willl there be..... a sweet-faced toddler with a teddy in his hand??? 
 (well, there may be some humes i this games who have their wits about them, you never know... I 
 just have not got taht far yet to find out!!!!)
  
  Now then... prior to this, I had bought Prey for my PC... which wasnt a bad title, to be honest with 
 you... but the sheer fight/fright/flight syndrome you get from Doom 3 was not wholly covered in 
 Prey... and of course, as Prey was DVD-ROM..... it was tooo damn sllllloooooooowwwwwwwww... even the 
 stages took donkeys years to load!!!! But Doom was fast in every aspcet, loading, changing settings, 
 actual gameplay (ok, somewhat slow in this aspect!!!)
  
  The guys who produced the game really did mean it when they said turn up the volume, turn out the 
 lights, close your door.... as these three factors really do make an eerie, scary, ironic and spell-binding 
 atmosphere.... They dont mke games like these everyday.... and I dont think there wil ever be anything 
 as scary and attention grabbing as Doom 3!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmogoon
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 isn't a sequel, but rather a reimagining of the 1993 classic. Usually the idea of a remake 
 is a turn off more than anything, and to apply it such a foundational game was a risky proposal. 
 But id software managed to tweak and change the formula to effect in an immersive horror first-person 
 shooter which stays entertaining for each of the fifteen to twenty hours worth of single player 
 action.
  
  The lightning quick gameplay is gone and the taking out of three imps with a single shotgun blast 
 from a hundred yards away is nowhere to be seen.
  
  It's a corridor crawler. You go around blasting things that jump out at you from short range. It's 
 also usually very dark, and you'll be switching to your flash light frequently. You've got your 
 armour and your health, and you've got your arsenal of crazy weaponry in your back pocket. Hundreds 
 of pickups are placed all over the devastated UAC facility, not because it's realistic for boxes 
 of shells and health kits to be hidden under stairs and in vent shafts, but because this is what 
 the gamer wants to find. You want to be rewarded for going out of your way, and this is exactly 
 what you get. This is what makes the game a shooter.
  
  The Union Aerospace Corporation - the "largest known corporate entity in existence" - has been 
 overrun by creatures from hell. Demons and other monsters are spilling over into the mars research 
 facility and destroying life as we know it. As an unnamed marine, who never talks - but of course 
 grunts, you can survive all the horror and fight back the forces of hell. Even ignoring the "Hell 
 infestation", it's a bit ridiculous, but we're expected to take it with a pinch of salt, which 
 is also how we take our 10 weapons and thousands of rounds of ammo in our pockets. 
  
  The guns have quite a nice variety and feel to them. The pistol is underpowered of course, not 
 quite as useless as the original doom one, but you won't be using it much. The shotgun has a crazily 
 short range, but is devastating when using it against just about anything. The rest of the weapons 
 work nicely at medium distance, with the rocket launcher feeling accurate and poweful over any 
 range. The Chainsaw is sort of underrated and quite powerful, and probably more useful in this 
 game than ever before, given the nature of the fights. Unlike the majority of shooting games, the 
 weapons have no alternate fire whatsoever, but simply the large scope of firepower available for 
 you makes up for that, if it were an issue at all.
  
  One complaint lodged at the game has been its repetitive feel. As a fan (boy) of the game I would 
 probably say that it's fine because the quality makes up for it. But the bottom line is the game 
 really isn't that repetitive at all. Puzzles here and there make up for pacing through dark corridors, 
 and each room has a different feel. The UAC facility seems realistic almost. You get to see a host 
 of technology and machines that the developers have imagined, all working as if they had a real 
 purpose. Screens dotted about aren't just completely random. You'll pass machinery with panels 
 nearby explaining what it is as though you could imagine people working at them if the place weren't 
 completely ruined. To further break up any monotony, at a few places in the games there are slight 
 forks in the road, where you have to make choices which influence your road ahead. Nothing drastic 
 here, but you get to see slightly different outcomes and environments depending on those choices.
 
  
  As it is, looking at it on the surface, Doom 3 doesn't have much of a story. Cut scenes break up 
 the pace and show the progress of Dr Betruger and his evil plans. But it doesn't get very involved. 
 The real meat of the game's story, what gives the game its life, are the PDAs of dead scientists 
 littered thoughout the facility. Most of them have voice read emails, which you can put on while 
 you're getting on with the game, as well as text emails. The main incentive to pay attention to 
 these PDAs is because they will often give the codes to storage cabinets, often with some hefty 
 amounts of ammo in. But on top of this, insights into employees lives, and how the void of hell 
 slowly infested the facility are contained in a lot of the messages so they're definitely worth 
 checking out.
  
  Doom 3 achieves what it does because of its atmosphere. Ambient sounds are fading in and out all 
 the time, giving a chilling setting to run about in. But what puts the atmosphere above any other 
 game is its graphics engine.
  Considering the strongest aspect of the engine is its lighting system, it almost makes sense to 
 have been used for a dark, horror oriented game. The way real-time shadows cast against walls still 
 looks incredible even today. Animations of zombies and other enemies are believable, and the textures 
 are detailed, even if most of the textures in the environment don't quite compare.
  
  The campaign is probably the longest first person shooter one I have played. But none of this length 
 is attributed by filler. Every single level is entertaining and different in enough respects to 
 make you want to keep playing.
  
  There is little mystery to Doom 3. It did what it set out to do. It's a horror shooter with incredible 
 graphics, immersive gameplay, and top-notch production value. The only people not wanting to play 
 this game, are the ones who are scared of the dark.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max_Velo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  First I have tell you that I'm Thai so I'm not really good at English.
  If this review text make you confuse........ I'm SORRY.
  I think this game is most successful 
 first person shooter game
  after Half Life , Half Life 2 , Fry Cry etc.
  I still remember that first time I played this game. It's really impressed me.
  The Graphic is 
 so real and sounds make the game very creepy.
  The things I like the most in DOOM3 are Weapons. THEY'RE REALLY AWESOME such as BFG It's freaking 
 amazing gun. You can kill all enemies with one shot (I think it's a nuke or something...) . And 
 the storyline is very impressive for the FPS game. You'll play as a UAC marine nameblah blah 
 blah" ( make your own name ) . You've just been transfered to the Mars and then BAAM! the hell is 
 breaking loose. All you have to do as a marine is to
  STAY ALIVE!
  I think that if you want the FPS great experience . Don't hasitate to buy DOOM 3. Believe Me....... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Well, it's a good game..
  The best scf-fi horrifc game I ever played.. and a instant classic for this genre..
  I played 
 on the normal level in 2006.. (The second option in choosing difficulties.. forget that name)
  It isn't that at all scary but the lighting and sounds make you feel to be really in the game..
 
  Make you feel there's really a catastrophe had taken place and every one has been killed or missing..
 
  Sometimes you'll encounter with survivors and I LOVE the ideas of this! Retrieve PDA from dead 
 and listen to their story..
  It's good you know..
  A feeling rather than run and gun..
  You will ususally find a way to encounter with differents speicmens in the game.. their movements 
 and styles and weaknesses and speed.. making it easier and easier in later game.. (Except speicmen 
 got newer and stronger)
  
  Great singleplayer campagin.. (Although after you finish it after 1/2 week or some, you won't want 
 to return to it) 
  Bad and old-school mutliplayer... you got respawn.. scrap new gun that resprawn on floor, and shoot 
 shoot shoot shoot.. join up a tiny small amount of server with 1 or 2 player and then fall asleep..
 
  
  Storyline-9/10
  Graphic-10/10 (At 2004 level) , 8/10 (Nowaday)
  Gameplay-8/10 (singleplayer)
  Gameplay-4/10 (multiplayer)
  Sound-9/10
  Overrall-8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rom11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Every game has is own good sides and bad sides. When Doom 3 came out it was high system exigent 
 and had almost perfect graphics for that time. The game is very interesting and fun at the start 
 and also a good horror. But slayng the same monsters all the time just gets boring. Enviroment 
 repeats itself all the time except hell levels what are really different from others but there 
 should be only two of them. It is also fun to see those old-school monsters from older Doom games 
 recreated. Same monsters with better graphics, sound and unlimited movements. If you want to play 
 one of the best remakes ever then try this out.
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAFIOSO_13
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  After doom came out back in 93 i knew that if they make a sequel of this game that i woludn`t be 
 a miss. And i was right. This game is sure worth the wait. The story isn`t much, but the gameplay... definitely 
 better than Half-Life 2. The fear in this game of getting freaked out because some creatures come 
 out of every corner will get you going in this game. The graphics in this game is amazing, of course, not 
 better than half-life 2, but very satisfying. Great effects, and the models of those scary creatures 
 are perfect in every little detail. The enviroment is very claustrophobic, but very versatille and 
 the graphics are excellent. There are some techical glitches and bugs, but nothing you can`t handle. I 
 haven`t played the multiplayer mode so i don`t have nothing to say about that. At the end, doom 3 
 is a game you must play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: attila1975
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  I`m quite selective with games. I hadn`t played Doom 3 until a few days ago, when I finally decided 
 to give it a shot and see what all the hype was about.
  
  Well this is absolutely pathetic. I was not happy with Far Cry, but compared to Doom 3, Far Cry 
 is an absolute work of genius. Where do I start?
  
  Well first of all, everything in Doom 3 is scripted, AI is non-existent. Not a good idea for an 
 FPS. It gets boring after half an hour. Nothing makes sense, you just know that a monster will 
 appear exactly after you open a door. It really is pathetic to play. Maybe I just don`t like these 
 negative games where I`m the one being hunted, especially by seemingly all-knowing enemies, who 
 appear in every dark corner. I prefer proactive action and a positive mission. I like to be the 
 hunter, not the hunted. It`s just not engaging to play a defensive game where you`re expected to 
 be sh1tting your pants and running for your life, instead of positive action. I wasn`t happy with 
 Far Cry, mainly because of the boring story and pathetic character, but Doom 3 is about 10 times 
 as bad.
  
  Strangely though the story starts out interesting, about a human settlement on Mars. But the gameplay 
 is so incredibly awful that even an Oscar winning story could not save the game. It plays like 
 these arcade rail shooters. Reminds me of an old game I played about 10 years ago: House of the 
 Dead.
  
  Oh by the way the graphics and the sound are ok. But that wasn`t enough to make me spend more than 
 2 hours on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwayman2000
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  DOOM speaks for itself - you are doomed, really!
  
  It's a game you can play in the dark with as little light to reflect the keyboard when the fighting 
 becomes tense.
  
  I expect that we are all old skool and know the storyline and what we expect - if not this is all 
 for you...
  
  You are a marine sent to Mars as part of the security team to protect the welfare of the employees 
 that work there doing some revolutionary researches.
  
  Well what do you expect action? You do what is known as minor task to find the whereabouts of a 
 research team employee.... HELL BREAKS LOOSE!
  
  Basically, you job becomes somewhat a little more becoming - you have to settle the dispute!
 
  
  Besides your major assignment, the graphics to this game will always be immense despite the next 
 generation graphics we have today. it's all shock horror doom!
  
  Now, if you think that this report of the game shouldn't be as I stated from here - then you are 
 a wuss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvatarBlue
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Played the game right through without wanting to play any other game. Yet if you want to go off 
 and try something else, its not to heavy on the memory glands so you dont have to remember where 
 you left off.
  
  Thats the sort of game Doom III. Fast, action-packed. Good array of weapons. Well constructed layouts, 
 wide ranging enemies providing different challenges. Every is balanced just about right. Playing 
 on hard level sometimes it felt there was too much ammo about, other times there wasnt enough.
 
  
  Throughly enjoyable game. Superior example of the genre, even if it doesnt match Half-life.
  
 
  Took just less than two months worth of 2/3 hrs per night about 3/4 nights a week to get through 
 it.
  
  It was so good I got the expansion. Made me long for my time with Doom and Doom II all over again. 
 Just hope they bring out Doom IV soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a very good game and it was worth the money 
  
  Doom 3 out rates all of the other dooms that have been out this game is amazing. 
  
  The game 
 play is excellent and it is so good it is so hard to describe it. 
  
  The sounds are very good and every thing can be heard even a scream from one of the monsters that 
 you have to kill, 
  
  Also what I find amazing is that they brought this game out and then made a film of it usually 
 it is the other way around first but what I think they done was to make you not know where every 
 thing in the game is by watching the film first. 
  
  This game is very scary so DON'T play this game in the dark it will scar you half to death because 
 the monster come out from no where, meaning you check a corner and nothing is there then all of 
 a sudden some thing appears. 
  
  My suggestion is that you should get this game it is amazing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumitchhibber
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Doom3 is the most scariest game that i have ever played till date. what makes it scary? 1. Environments 
 are dark, sorry no sunlight 2. You cannot carry Flashlight and GUN at same time 3. Creepy enemies 
 4. Wired noises and shadows. 5 Alot of surprises 6. candles (wtf) . For first 2 hours you will 
 be like holy cow. After that you will get used to it but game is still fun. It involves a little 
 tactics like hiding behind cover but using right weapon at right time is imperative. Huge collection 
 of weapons and they are satisfying and provide good firepower especially BFG what people likes 
 it to call BIG F*****G GUN. Environments are set in future and you will make your way through scientific 
 labs and Ancient places. Story is great and it will keep you tied in the game and soon it will 
 become addictive. There are lot of enemies in game and game tests your skills when they appear 
 at same time.
  
  Just finished today in Veteran mode and hope to get doom 3 RoE soon. 
  
  All in all a must buy if you are a FPS gamer. I hear lot of times that doom 3 is not scary. 
 Well you cant be scared enough by a game or movie until you put your life on the line!! 
  
  Cheers,
  Boxer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armylad1509
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is one of the most interesting games ive ever reviewed because of where it stands compared 
 to its older counterpart. In this game you play as this unnamed marine (which really adds some mystery 
 to this guys name) and you are sent to Mars to find this scientist, only to find out that all hell 
 breaks loose on the UAC (United Aerospace Coorporation) and in moments everything is destroyed and 
 you battle all sorts of creatures and zombies. This game, much like the original, is more like 
 a dungon-type game where you play in 3rd person throughout the whole game except for cutscenes. 
 But, however, you still have the vast aray of weapons from the original shotgun to the plasma gun 
 and so forth; these weapons are beastly against many enemies, but be careful because the enemies 
 here are FAR more beastly than the one's in the original so new stratagies are required. The different 
 levels and places you embark on show great detail in graphics, from Delta Labs to even Hell itself, 
 they did an awsome job providing attention to detail as one of their priorities. Overall, Doom 
 3 is an awsome game for anyone who thought the original was awsome or for just anyone who can enjoy 
 a great action-horror game that will keep them on their feet and avoid having those "accidents" 
 when things are jus a little bit too intense than they can handle^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I followed the development of Doom 3 throughout it's manifestation of concept to full release. 
 Being a long time fan of Carmack and company, I had high expectations for id software's newest 
 project. After waiting years and finally obtaining my copy of Doom 3, I was more then eager for 
 another trip to hell. While Doom 3 makes an outstanding visual presentation, it's gameplay is questionable. 
 Even with annoying flaws, Doom 3 is worth taking a look at just to experience the impressive atmosphere.
 
  
  First off the good stuff. Eye candy. Doom 3, along with all id games, always tries to push the 
 envelope when it comes to bringing cutting edge technology. If there was no id software, we would 
 never of seen Half-Life or the hundreds of other companies that bought id's engines to create their 
 own masterpieces. This time around however, those companies that have piggybacked on id software's 
 engines are making just as good if not better SDKs. Even with the pressure of competition looming 
 in the face of id, it managed to bring out an impressive engine all the same. Elements such as 
 real-time shadows and rag doll physics make Doom 3 an outstanding experience from a visual point 
 of view. The game world has a creepy feeling to it that makes you feel as if you stepped into a 
 James Cameron's Aliens, just replace with demons. 
  
  What Doom 3 fails at delivering is a solid gameplay experience. Creature AI is standard, allowing 
 monsters to take cover if a stream of bullets come flying at them. However, if you decide to stand 
 next to a doorway out of the bad guy's view, they will rush in like mindless storm troopers to 
 meet your fire. Doom 3 provides a stamina bar, which adds more of a hindrance then anything. There 
 should be no reason for stamina management in a run n' gun game like Doom. 
  
  Building on the classic idea of one space marine vs. the army of hell, Doom 3 tries to add more 
 storyline this time around. As you travel the UAC base, you will upload PDAs from fallen co-workers. 
 Most of the information is useless that these uploads provide and add nothing but a time sink. 
 The only useful information is codes for storage lockers and locked doors. 
  
  Doom 3 tries to keep you scared from start to finish, and in the beginning it is highly successful. 
 Zombies and demons are constantly jumping out from dark areas and catching you by surprise, which 
 becomes annoying after the first few levels. The game also creates new instances of monsters by 
 spawning them in static locations. Some of these are pre-loaded and are behind walls, taking on 
 a classic tactic that older Doom games invoked. This is nothing but a cheap way of having things 
 gang up from behind you, and could have been done without.
  
  Speaking of dark areas, you can expect quite a bit of this from start to finish. The game loves 
 to keep you in pitch blackness as an attempt to keep you guessing where the bad guys are coming. 
 While at first this is loads of fun, it only later becomes more of a hassle then anything. While 
 the game is quite easy, I feel that adding monsters in pitch black locations to trigger the player 
 off-guard was nothing but a bad design flaw.
  
  There are many things that id software can learn from Doom 3. Gamers for the most part hate to 
 be left in the dark, its poor design. Just because you want to make a game off of a classic title, 
 doesn't mean you should add in the additional flaws that have since then been corrected in other 
 games. Multiplayer is nothing more then a deathmatch with up to 4 players (out of the box) . This 
 type of gameplay was fun 15 years ago, but when you are bringing out the next generation of FPS 
 titles, you don't want to go backwards! The single player campaign will keep you busy through a 
 good couple of play sessions, but after that you are left wishing for more. Doom 3 shows of some 
 great eye candy, but also brings back some flaws that should never make it into a modern FPS. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindboy19
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first two Doom games, having played them from an early game and participated in tournaments, 
 played mods, and achieving countless speedruns. The raw, gritty, silly, gorey mess of everything 
 left a wonderful bloody mark on my childhood that continued into adulthood. Despite being a huge 
 lover of in game storytelling, the simplicity and ultraviolence inherant in the original doom games 
 keep it as one of my favorite games ever.
  
  When I heard about Doom 3, I nearly wet myself. I was prepared to like it no matter how much it 
 sucked, a feeling very much akin to when I heard about Star Wars Episode 1. Thankfully, unlike 
 a certain Star Wars prequel, Doom 3 didn't suck. It wasn't great, but it didn't suck. And it didn't 
 have Jar Jar Binks, which automatically makes it much better than Episode 1. But enough of that.
 
  
  Graphics-wise, it was amazing for the time. The engine, the dynamic lighting, the intense action, 
 and the great gameplay left me a very happy camper. Most importantly, it felt more or less right. 
 The original doom games told in as few words as possible a horrific campy invasion of earth from 
 Hell, starting in a high tech mars base and ending in Satan's living room, with John Romero's face 
 being inside the brain of the devil. The plot was minimal, cheesy, campy, and a bit like a B movie, 
 but it gave you an excuse to slaughter zombies and demons en masse with a chainsaw and rocket launcher. 
 In the same way I love Army of Darkness, I loved Doom. There was no intelligence, no real high 
 art, no sentient thought to it all, it was just an awesome slaughterfest full of delightfully satanic 
 images and manly weapons such as chainsaws and double barreled shotguns. Doom created the space 
 marine FPS protagonist, and in my Doom saturated pscyhe, everyone but Gordon Freeman is actually 
 the Doom Marine in disguise, with the exception of the Master Chief, who is the Marathon guy in 
 disguise. Even so, what Doom did for the FPS genre was so influential, it deserves it's fame and 
 adoration from all the people whose lives it touched.
  
  Doom 3 has some big pants to fill, and sadly, it doesn't do its predecessors or it's namesake justice. 
 However, I think in this day and age, it is impossible to have a game as influential as Doom, ever. 
 But as acting as a sequel to the Doom games and retaining the same feel, this game succeeds, and 
 really, that's all that can realistically be expected.
  
  The game has practically zero plot, although the plot that is given is haphazard at best, which 
 was somewhat of a disappointment- leaving me wishing for the text narration of the previous games. 
 It takes pointers from System Shock 2 with the audio diary part, as well as Deus Ex with the internal 
 email system. These portray the plot and feel of the world better than the cutscenes, which actually 
 resulted in me having more interest in the side plots than the relatively uninspired primary plot.
 
  
  But wishing for any decent plot from anything Doom related is like watching Sitcoms for the special 
 effects. The game delivers delightful ultraviolence, and that makes it the good game it is. If 
 I had one complaint, it is that the only thing new about this game is the engine. Other than that, 
 it plays, feels, and generally is just more of the same Doom you know and love, just evolved a 
 bit, and less awesome. It tries to be scary at times, but only succeeds in being unnecessarily 
 bloody- which, it being Doom, is perfectly fine. Another thing that I was grateful for was it not 
 crossing the line, in a sense. Doom has always crossed the line, but it has done so tastefully. 
 Too many games these days cross over to the point where the pointless ultraviolence is tasteless 
 and repulsive, but Doom 3 keeps the levels of ultraviolence at around horrific, never too the point 
 where it becomes too ridiculous or stupid. 
  
  The gameplay is where this game shows it's true roots- it plays very much like a Doom game- no 
 real surprises there. It's a challenging nonstop shoot fest, and the only complaint I would have 
 is the lighting issue- for most of the game, you can't see jack, and you can't use both your flashlight 
 and a gun at the same time- apparently there was an electrical tape shortage on Mars right around 
 the time of the invasion. Even so, the game is fun, and the violence is pretty much nonstop, if 
 not slightly unimaginative. The set pieces are there, Doom 3 just brings it all to the 21st century. 
 And despite it being more of the same, it's Doom, and that's not a bad thing.
  
  One of the points I felt was particularly weak was the level design. Without Romero, the levels 
 just aren't the same. Sure, the engine is great. Thank you Carmack. But please, Romero, please, 
 come back and give us the same amazingly fun levels you gave us in the original Doom games! The 
 levels are very much like anything else in the FPS world, and are relatively uninteresting, which 
 is one of the biggest flaws with the game. Another thing I missed was the surrealism present in 
 the original Doom games. Sure, the added technology allows for realism not possible in the original 
 games, but there was a certain element of strangeness and slightly silly surrealism present in 
 the original games completely not present in Doom 3. It's almost as if it takes itself a little 
 too seriously, which is rather detrimental both to the plot and the general feel. Doom is supposed 
 to be about good times, slaughtering demons, and cracking open a cold can of Surge as you frag 
 your buddies. Doom 3 seems more like it's trying to push a story, provide an upgrade to the saga, 
 and generally seems like it's trying too hard, and yet not hard enough in certain areas. In that 
 respect, I think it really lost a lot of it's audience, but then again, most of the Doom fanatics 
 had already lost their allegiance to doom thanks to Quake, Counter Strike, and Halo. If anything, 
 it simply serves as an update to the Doom world we all know and love, and while it gets a lot wrong, 
 it's still Doom, and for that, I love it.
  
  A final note, the music isn't that great. That was one of the more tragic aspects- the music wasn't 
 memorable at all. They should have had Nine Inch Nails working on it, like with Quake. With Doom, 
 the music is one of the more important albeit frequently overlooked aspects of the game. I'll always 
 remember the first level music from Doom 1, and many of the tracks from Doom 2. But Doom 3, yawn.
 
  
  In any case, Doom 3 fails at being as important, impressive, or downright fun as the original games, 
 but it succeeds at being a Doom game. Just not as good as the originals. But despite this, it's 
 good to go back to Hell and tear things apart with a chainsaw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Methuselah6463
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 to me probably upped years of graphics and storys for games in the past several years. You 
 can really tell that the folks at ID Software took time to make a great game that not only plays 
 Decent but LOOKS AMAZING.. The only problem i have with this game is the same one most everyone 
 has in that... ITS TO FU@#$ING DARK.... THE flash light helps... but you have to switch between the 
 two and that gets really really annoying... now this game actually did scare me and thats a very 
 RARE thing to do.. but if you have a good sound card and a decent graphics card... its DEFF worth 
 playing because its really part of history in my point of view in that many games now have tryed 
 to copy the style and the way the story sucks you in.. ITS SIMPLE... your a marine... demons come 
 .. YOU KICK THERE BUT... you go to hell you come back end game... but thats how doom was in 19 whatever.... 
 it was the same concept... only thing that bothers me about this game is that it really has no 
 bases on calling it DOOM 3... it should have been called just DOOM.... much like the remake of Resident 
 evil... which was called "RESIDENT EVIL" because it says nothing about DOOM 1 2 or Final doom from 
 the past.... so really that was alittle silly on there part but .. over all the game is great... 
 the graphics are amazing.. its scary... GREAT WEAPONS... great story and over all just a fun game 
 to play at night with all the lights out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nichojinx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  I recently purchased and played through Doom 3. An I have to admit, it's about as close as games 
 will ever get to being like-movies. Not just in terms of realism but also how thrill and cinematic 
 factor-in.
  
  To bottom-line this reviewer's thoughts on the game...
  
  It boasts great graphics, sound and performance. Oh did I mention gameplay? I guess not, well that's 
 probably because the gameplay is about the same through the entire game and only changes in about 
 three boss fights. But that's ok! Why you ask? I'll tell you why. That's because the great thing 
 about the Doom series is that it is specifically designed around the concept of keeping you on 
 the edge of your seat. You never know what's around the next corner, or what new gun is waiting 
 in the next level.
  
  This game is a must have for all PC and survival horror gamers. If anything it's one of the funnest 
 PC benchmarks to-date.
  
  If you like to be scared, disturbed or even taken for a ride at your expense.
  
  GET THIS GAME! 
 ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freefadi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  The first Doom game released on the PC in the ninties set a new standard for video and computer 
 games and invented a new genre that became one of the most popular genres in video and computer 
 game history: the first person shooting genre, and since then tons of games were released following 
 it's style up until today, it was a really revolutionary game, and a new approach to video and 
 computer games that many games still follow it's lead today. Since then many sequels were released 
 on PC and consoles like Doom II, and Final Doom, but as technology advanced, ID realised that Doom 
 deserves to be resurrected using the best technology that todays PCs can offer, it shouldn't be 
 just another first person shooter, and it had to be as revolutionary as the the first Doom game.
 
  
  Many anticipation has raised since ID annouced that it's working on a new Doom game, and since 
 then people became more and more excited about it, especially after seeing how their Quake III: 
 Arena looked and played like, not to mention the screen shots that showed just how amazing the 
 graphic will look like in Doom III. But now after the long wait, it's finally here, and I can say 
 with confidence that you won't be disappointed at what you will find here, this is the best looking 
 game on PC and It's the most terrifying adventure you have yet to see in a first person shooter 
 or even in any other PC game.
  
  So what's it all about? Well the story of Doom III is taking place in the future where Man has 
 colonised the planet Mars and has made a city called Mars City (wow) within it where there are many 
 people, research facilities, and labs all with military for protection and restraunts for relaxing. 
 You take the role of a new marine soldier ( who-as in all Doom and Quake games-has no name!) , he 
 is newly recruited to the special military forces on Mars to protect the people and mainly scientists 
 and researchers on it. When you arrive it won't take you too long to realise that something is 
 not right for every one acts as if some thing is definitely wrong and even your fellow soldiers 
 are all acting strange and giving you advice to be careful and watch your back and be careful, 
 it all sets you up to the creepy adventure you're about to experience, soon after wards you'll 
 be called by your superior to meet him and after you reach him he will send you on your first mission 
 (during which you'll get yourself acquianted with the easy controls) , from that point onwards things 
 will start happening like lights going out and in, the ground will shake and the communications 
 will become almost cut off, and you'll also start hearing screems and noises of shooting without 
 realising what's really going on. After reaching a freaked out scientist to get some answers he 
 gets attacked by a mysterious force that lookes like a ghost or an evil spirit or something, at 
 that point he will turn into a zombie and start attacking you, so you shoot him without having 
 any clue to what is happening or even what just happened in front of you. Of course half of the 
 fun is unlocking the mystery and trying to investigate, so I won't spoil any more because believe 
 me when I say that you'll love the way the story is told and the action is paced. Suffice to say 
 that it involves ancient artifacts, secret research, and gates to another dimention.
  
  Lets' get to the gameplay then shall we? This is a first person shooter of course, but as mentioned 
 at the beginning of this review this is unlike any other FPS game you've played before, the engine 
 is so fluid and easy to handle, the guns are really varied and are really satisfying to use, you'll 
 start off with your bare hands and a pistol at the beginning of the game but later on you'll get 
 a shotgun which is the bread and butter of this game, you'll also be using grenades, a gattling 
 gun, and even a grenade launcher and other nice surprises. And you'll need every one of them because 
 you'll be faced with many beasts of different types, agility, abilities and sizes. It's not just 
 shooting in here though, It's actually got some nice safe locking puzzles and-find the appropriate 
 card key for the right door-type of puzzles, and all of them are simple and won't take you from 
 the action bits of the game, it's actually there just to give you a breather from all the shooting 
 every now and then, don't worry it's all well balanced and feels so appropriately fun. A nice feature 
 is the concept of the the PDA or the Personal Data Assistant which is like an ID card and Laptop 
 at the same time, every person has one and collecting them from dead corpses will give you diffterent 
 kinds of information whether by listening to voice mails or reading text messages, these information 
 might include a combination to a locked safe or a door, the PDA itself can be used as a security 
 clearance to open certain doors. 
  
  The graphics in this game challenge the power of todays PCs which means that it's looks amazing 
 and beautiful, there is no other game that give you this king of graphics and the animation is 
 so fluid and smooth you'll actually get a chill when you see a hideous creature coming right at 
 you. The back grounds are also creepy and will give you the appropriate type of chills and thrills 
 like the abandoned labs, the creepy research facilities and the oxygen-less surface of Mars all 
 added with dark corridors strange machinery with the lights flickering among other things. And 
 it's all well done in combination with great Audio, which is the most important factor in horror 
 games and movies, the sounds really are creepy and will give you the feeling that you are surrounded 
 by dangers lurking at every corner just waiting to jump on you at any second. I can't really stress 
 how good this game is, it's like it's been tested and perfected with great attention to detail 
 and all the neat touches that a game carrying the name of Doom III should live up to.
  
  Some people might argue that Doom III should have been more hard and the action should have been 
 more fast paced, but the truth remains that it all feels so appropriate and having played the game 
 I can't say that I found these things annoying or that they ruin the game in any manner, the game 
 felt great from start to finish and the fact remains that although it's not perfect, it still remains 
 as one of the best games I ever Played on PC and even on consoles.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Game play 8
  Graphics 10
  Sounds 7
  Value 9
  Tilt 8
  Actual score: 8.3
  
  Doom happens to be one of the most successful names in the realms of PC gaming. Since the release 
 of Doom back in 1993 the world was stunned of what this marvel can produce. Being one of the biggest 
 selling games it touched every soul; even the big cheese himself Bill Gates used Doom to sell Windows 
 95.
  
  Even though I remembered the Doom Fever, I really didnt get into Doom until 
 the release of the motion picture Doom in 2005. To many, this probably is an insult to the Doom 
 name however I enjoyed the movie so I decided to play the original Doom in 2006. Bearing in mind 
 also the massive hype of Doom 3 (and rightfully so) , it became the battle of the finest FPS ever 
 made. During the production of Doom 3, UT 2004 and Half Life 2 showed its face to the every-so 
 crowded FPS market to grab that top dog status. Nevertheless, four years in the making with plenty 
 of hype and setbacks, Doom 3 finally made it in 2004.
  
  The story of Doom 3 followed that nameless hero working for the Union Aerospace Corporation 
 (UAC) in Mars 2145. Just arrived on the planet and being attached with plenty of clich plots, 
 in time all hell breaks loose and its up to you to find the source of this dilemma. So its 
 back to this one man defense force against all odds being the fiends from hell.
 
  
  One noticeable difference in Doom 3 is the style of game play. Doom 1 and 2 used that blow 
 up everything that moves modus operandi whilst Doom 3 was a more slower type FPS horror; 
 the style of things that goes bump in the night. And there are plenty of dark, gloomy 
 corridors in addition to abnormal shrieks throughout the complex. I was impressed and quite startled 
 when I first met the zombie, slowing groaning towards me in a barely lit room and soon after that, 
 that sudden jump and attack method; however later it started to get a tad predicable as all the 
 fiends from hell have a very bad habit of running directly into my shotgun.
  
  Doom 3 is unquestionably atmospheric. This was the driving force of the game and what needs to 
 take full credit was the muscle power of the new Doom engine. For me, the Unreal engine was indeed 
 the cream of the crop as its the best and most versatile gaming engine to date. I never 
 really experience the Doom engine however after playing Doom 3, I must admit I was very impressed. 
 The graphics looks clean and crisp; details are immaculate and the enemies themselves are impressive. 
 That said, it will take a beefy PC to see this engine in its fullest glory.
  
  However there is a downside to this marvelous piece of programming; the engine cannot render outdoor 
 environments effectively. You will notice in the game the small amounts of time you spend on the 
 Martian land is quite short yet cleverly, the developers designed that you will run out of oxygen 
 quite fast if you dont seek the safety of the adjoining complex so there is very little 
 time for sight seeing. You can however peer out of the very few windows the complex have to check 
 out the tourist attractions. 
  
  That said, the overall lighting effects for Doom 3 are hands down the best by far from any PC game. 
 The lights rending are not awkward yet has a realistic cone of vision so expect dark corners and 
 plenty of shadows. Yet you have probably read the endless jokes about the flashlight and not one 
 weapon has a mounted light source considering the concept of teleportation exists. It can be a 
 real pain in the neck to swap your weapon to the flashlight and back again yet youll eventually 
 get used to the idea. But to those who feels that pressing just one key is too much to do (or too 
 frightened) can download the many flashlight mods floating on the net. I personally didnt 
 use it as I feel it will spoil the fun.
  
  The narration of the story is presented in all the PDAs you will collect throughout the complex. 
 I thought this was a great way to break the ice of the monotonous killing of monsters as the voice 
 acting of the various scientists, technicians and the likes are quite impressive. You can hear 
 the tones of boredom, excitement, fear and other associated human emotions that can turn a bland 
 story into something else. Other sounds like the screams throughout the corridors, the humming 
 of power generators and the occasional sparks of wires short-circuiting brings tension in the air 
 and draws you into this demonic world. There are very little of any musical scores as the majority 
 of the melodies are to create atmosphere which has done exceptionally well. In spite of this, expect 
 though a great deal of silence (and howls) .
  
  Considering it took four years to make Doom 3, equally it will take some serious time to finish 
 off this game. Lengthy games are my forte as long it does keep my interest. Doom 3 can be quite 
 repetitive and boring if it wasnt for the PDA (believe it or not) that youll collect 
 throughout the complex. Im not sure what is the recommended time to complete this game however 
 it took me well over 40 hours (mind you I did spend some time listening to and reading all the 
 emails and movies presented in each PDAs I have located) . To date, its the longest FPS game 
 I have ever played.
  
  Once completed the game, I was pondering is it worth waiting for four years since the first announcement 
 was made to the public (actually it took me eight years) . Similar to Unreal II, Doom 3 game play 
 style is a great deal different to its previous games. Instead of running and blasting away to 
 a great musical beat, Doom 3 is a great deal slower with limited ambience sounds to create tension 
 and scare. That said, it did loose many of the horror effects by having pretty lame AI as they 
 really dont try to ambush you other than teleporting suddenly, screaming and then scurrying 
 (or thumping) towards you. This, for me unfortunately lost this horror effect and becoming more 
 of a nuisance as to many-a-time the spawning happens directly underneath me (as you can see the 
 room suddenly dim so naturally you start to backtrack) hence I elevated somewhat of the ground. 
 Graphically though, the Doom engine is undeniably impressive. Nice looking effects especially the 
 lighting, brought back this horror game play style and did save face for a game that could have 
 been the game-of-the-year but didnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skarwolf
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I didn't like this game because it felt too confined and far too dark. Pretty much every single 
 encounter is engineered so that you open a door and guaranteed theres something on the other side. 
 Or you enter a room and without a doubt in that dark corner is a zombie which only appears once 
 you're back is turned. Even if you throw a grenade into said corner the zombie isn't affected until 
 they're "activated" to attack you which is really just a cheap attempt at scaring you.
  
  After this happens around 10 or more times it grows tedious as with most of this game. I found 
 the online play ok except the mutiplay maps like single player were very confined to narrow hallways 
 and very small maps. They too were way too dark.
  
  It's unfortunate given how much of a community the original Doom spawned with mods, maps, character 
 models and skins but this faded into obscurity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VonDeath92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  the beginning of this game was great i loved the original doom and i got this first thing when 
 it came out
  trouble was my computer was to slow and lacked the ram to run it so i had to wait for a couple 
 of years to play so i played the original doom trilogy during that time
  
  where im going with this is that after going from nicely lit 1990s graphics to this dark detailed 
 games was so great i could not play it for more than 15 minutes at a time before getting so freaked 
 out i had to stop
  
  then about 3 hours in i could tell exactly where every thing was and what weapon would be best 
 So great still but SO redone after a couple of hours, but i hope that Doom 4 really does the game 
 that has started years of horror games AND movies the full glory it should have 
  
  Also the extra monsters was great to they took a classic and not only polished it and upgraded 
 it but also helped it grow into a more complicated (in a good way) shape 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This is the first horror game of any kind i've played my PC and i had lots of expectations from 
 it considering that many were recommending it and it had got decent/good reviews....
  
  The story is pretty darn simple n straight ... its the 21st century and mankind have finally been 
 able to settle down on Mars, basically for scientific researches and experiments.... for doin so 
 they have dug deep into the core of Mars and apparently found an archaeological dig site where 
 they found some Tablets containing Pictograms of people who were on Mars earlier and how they had 
 encountered 'Demons' and fought them of..... ok now the Game has its own evil scientist-Bertruger 
 who while testing out some teleportation device teleported himself to... to... any guesses.... well 
 he teleported himself to Hell... literally..... he gets allied with demons in hell n allows them 
 to come over to Mars to 'feed on Human souls'....
  
  The game starts with u as a nameless voicelss Marine who comes to Mars and is sent to reconnoiter 
 an underground complex in serach of a missing scientist. Once ur out there u'll soon encounter these 
 demons.... n u'll go on fighting them in highly repetitive environments...
  
  For starters the game's story line wasn't very appealing. For example in one case u'll be given 
 an objective of linking up with Bravo Team-another group of marines.... which'll take forever and 
 once u get to them all will be dead.... Throughout the game u will be fighting alone excepy for 
 a few places where u'll b assisted by spider like bots. The game consists of a very standard array 
 of weapons a pistol, a shotgun, a machine  a flashlight since u will 
 be doin most of your fighting in the dark... the problem here is none of the weopons have a flashlight 
 integrated with them nor does your marine wear a helmet with a flashlight on it.... its very primitive 
 considering its the 22nd century in the game... The enemies are well designed and the AI is pretty 
 good... doom 3 is one of the few games where i have encountered zero AI glitches... the AI do what 
 they have to pretty well.... u'll encounter demonic creatures of various sizes various forms... like 
 trites which resemble spiders, Hellknights which resemble a bear standing on his hindlegs (sort of) , a 
 dog like creature with a ppredator like mouth... flying skulls, even creatures which resemble a Human 
 baby, zombies etc. etc..... there r plenty of em.... initially they'll show up one at a time but after 
 midway through the game ambushes become quite common.... fighting these creatures was a bit quirky 
 for me since most of the fighting took place indoors in narrow spaces or rooms with debris n dead 
 bodies littered all round so their wasn't sufficient space to move about..... the guns weren't very 
 good either expecially in terms of looks i had expected better.... and since the crosshair doesnt 
 pulse u wont be able to make use of staccato mad gun fire of a machine gun or chaingun.... either 
 u r shootin at ur enemy dead on or ur shootin at nothin but its still basically run and gun... the 
 levels are grotesquely detailed with all kinds of blood and gore and thick vein like structures 
 stickin out of the walls... but still the levels are kinda very repetitive, u will be mostly doin 
 ur fightin in labs n research facilities which though may be slightly different nonetheless are 
 quite boring after sometime, level designs are pretty much the same for about 90% of the game except 
 for when u get to go to Hell, literally,.... that was my favourite level and also pretty tough.... that 
 level offered some kinda open space/outdoor fightin other than the surface of mars...... While progressing 
 through the game u will come across PDA's/mini computers in which scientists working on Mars used 
 to record their experiences while workin and to send and receive e-mails, u'll be downloading data 
 from them into ur PDA..... these PDA's also contain door codes and r also required for access to 
 some parts of the levels...... but here is the tedious part-some door codes are stored within audio 
 logs of the personnel and just to get a code u have to hear the entire log.... thats really bogus.
 
  
  The game is an appaling 27 level long which again was very boring for me since the game looses 
 its element of surprise as u progress through the game and it becomes a more of 'been there done 
 that' kind.... Boss fights are good n tough n every one has a unique way to get beaten.... throughout 
 the game u will have to juggle between ur flashlight n ur weapon which in some situations may get 
 difficult, challenging yet primitive.... so technically the gameplay wasn't the most enjoyable kind 
 n got redundant by the end... the only reason why i stuck with it was just to finish it..... Horror 
 is well presented but looses its flair gradually....
  
  The game would have felt much better had it been shorter probably something like its expansion 
 pack... by doing the same things over and over the game ends up tryin to be somethin it ain't..... the 
 game still had its startling moments...... visually and acoustically the game is quite impeccable..... their 
 are no soundtracks or music except for that in the Main Menu... the only sounds r groans n squishy 
 noises of flesh being chewed upon or hidieous laughter, footsteps in blood, loud bangs,..... and my 
 scariest moment... a pinky behind a closed door... their was also this case when a giant hand tried 
 to grab me when i opened a door.... the levels mostly contain blood smeared floors and walls with 
 carcasses of humans all over and maybe a head over here n a foot over there......
  
  The game is creepy with the visuals and sounds being so polished.... n if u really want the feel... put 
 on a headphone switch off the lights n play... it'll offer Horror, for a short time though.... the 
 game doesnt offer a lasting experience and the ending is incomplete unless u play the expansion 
 pack.
  There are very few cutscenes in the game unfortunately.... Another fact i forgot to mention is that 
 u'll come across many interactive consoles around the levels some of which allow u to operate crane 
 like devices... plus u can even play arcade games within the game... a game within a game!!!!.. thats 
 pretty cool...
  
  To sum it up for me Doom 3 is a game that goes from good to boring in 27 levels.... u may wanna 
 give this a try but i'm not sure whether it'll b appealing in any way.... its not a bad choice for 
 a horror game... cant say the same about it otherwise. But on the bright side it's quite stable.... if 
 that counts for anything.... Gameplay is very important for me n the game fails to deliver in this 
 department.... i cant give it a 9.... the game got boring something which i terribly hate... and after 
 having played it once i have no intention nor the will or interst to play it again... not an 8 from 
 me.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  It's not exactly easy to be Doom 3, the third game of a series that basically shaped a genre. Maybe 
 that's why id Software didn't take too many chances with the classic fps formula, they just updated 
 it.
  
  Doom 3 is set on Mars, no surprises here. You play the role of a marine who just got assigned to 
 the Mars UAC facility, but you can tell things aren't right as soon as you arrive. You haul your 
 @ss to Marine HQ where you receive a task to retrieve some scientist. When you find him though, 
 all hell breaks loose. And after that it's pretty much obvious what happens. The story isn't anything 
 special but at least it's presented well enough through many email messages and audio logs or through 
 radio chatter and a few nicely done cutscenes. The effect of all these interactions is strange, 
 the fact that you almost never talk to any NPC directly give a strong feeling of isolation, which 
 is what the game should do, considering the circumstances. For an fps, Doom 3 presents its story 
 and its world pretty well, but nothing exceptional.
  
  There's nothing spectacular about the gameplay either, it's the same run and gun stuff the series 
 is known for. But id Software tried to implement some new features to break down the action a bit. 
 I'm referring here to the PDA, a device that allows you to play data discs and store things like 
 emails or audio logs (that help the story move forward and also give you passwords for doors or 
 supply cabinets) . I think the whole PDA thing is a good idea but the implementation is pretty shy. 
 The developers could and should have done more with it. Look at System Shock 2, audio logs and 
 data discs were essential for getting by, information was power. In Doom 3, the PDA only serves 
 as a tool to mask the linear nature of the game; for example, you'll get quests to recover data 
 discs with security clearances which require you to backtrack a bit, thus distracting you from 
 the linear progression of the game. This linearity really sticks out at times, specially when some 
 scripted event gets triggered. It feels like you have no real impact on the world. It's definitely 
 the main weakness of the game and it's too bad, with a more open-ended world Doom 3 could have 
 been much more.
  
  Since this is a Doom game, the shooting experience is very important. You have a wide selection 
 of weapons and they are a treat. I liked the shotgun especially, it's just so satisfying to fire! 
 I have few complaints here, the whole thing feels like it's done by someone with a lot of experience 
 in fps games. The movement speed is perfect for the game's tight corridors while the weapons are 
 varied and adequate for various situations. I didn't like the melee weapons though. The chainsaw 
 is a bit too much while the fists were practically useless (except when you're in berserker mode, 
 which happens 2 or 3 times... so yeah, they're useless) . I would have preferred a big old wrench 
 instead.
  
  The AI is a big part of the experience and Doom 3 is decent in this department. Enemies usually 
 just attack you without any tactic but their strength lies in the fact that they show up from the 
 weirdest places. It's nothing out of the ordinary but the AI is definitely not moronic, there are 
 no glitches or weird behaviors like in some other shooters (even some high-profile titles) . Also, 
 I'd like to give a thumbs up to the developers for the game's difficulty, specially the Hell levels 
 (yes, you're going to visit Hell) . It's just nice to see a shooter with a challenging end level, 
 shooters these days can be a bit easy.
  
  I saved the best for last: the audio-visual presentation. This is where Doom 3 shines, this is 
 what sets it apart from all those shooters out there. The graphics are stellar! Shadows react like 
 they should, objects are detailed and the bump mapping on this thing is above and beyond. Granted 
 that the levels are pretty repetitive but they are crafted with a lot of attention for small details 
 which I appreciate a lot. The physics engine is not pushed too much but some of the effects are 
 spectacular. It's a delight seeing a metal door bend at the attempts of a demon to get through. 
 The sound is also excellent. I hope you're playing this with a 5.1 system or a good pair of headphones 
 cause sound plays a huge factor in the overall experience. The voice acting is also worth mentioning, 
 the actors did a great job.
  
  Lastly, I didn't mention the multiplayer but that's because there's nothing to mention. It's just 
 basic deathmatch stuff, fun for a game or two now and then.
  
  Overall, I must admit that I'm pretty glad Doom 3 didn't try to 'reinvent the wheel' because old-school 
 shooters are not too popular these days. So if you like first-person shooters, specially the old-school 
 variety, then Doom 3 is highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmarKane3450
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  When I played this game, it pretty much knocked me out. For one thing, I don't have a very good 
 computer. Regardless, the game still looked good and ran at a very good rate. 
  
  This is certainly the best one out of the entire series. I liked the setting of the game. It really 
 felt like a futuristic base on Mars. I mean the detail you see in the base is amazing. 
  
  The monsters you run into are classic doom enemies that have been "upgraded." They certainly look 
 scarier than the original Doom's. 
  
  The story was pretty good. But I think there were some things they could have done to make it more 
 compelling:
  
  SPOILERS
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  -I really wish the rivalry between Betruger and Swann was explored a little more. 
  -The logs 
 in the game seem to only serve to give you log codes. Most of the time they're just filled with 
 boring uninteresting information, with a few plot details occasionally. Also, the PDA has an email 
 function. Wouldn't it be cool if you were able to recieve email from other characters in the game? 
 
  -There are a couple of instances where you have to choose "paths." One area of the game forces 
 you to choose one that is a kind of jumping puzzle type area and the other that pits you against 
 a number of enemies in different areas. Another choice area is where you have to choose to send 
 a distress call or refuse to send it. This hardly affects the game at all. It would have been nice 
 if you get some help from the Swann character, or if the game would have changed a little bit rather 
 than just in dialogue.
  -The radio seems to hardly serve any purpose. Most of the time you just hear Sergeant Kelly tell 
 you to "send that transmission" or "you have to reach Bravo Team." This is during the part before 
 you hit the "send transmission or not" part. I felt an opportunity was missed here. The radio could 
 have been used to give you more plot detail. It just didn't feel that it was taken advantage of 
 enough.
  -The addition of "video disks" in the game was pretty cool, but the videos, like the majority of 
 the log entries in the game, are pretty boring. 
  -Character interaction is not very fun. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  This game is nowhere near the original Doom. It's better, but it seems 
 that the story, although good, could have used a little more work. No, I'm not bashing this game. 
 I enjoyed it, and I've played through it thousands of times. There were just areas that could have 
 used a little more work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  When you start out to play Doom 3, the game doesn't let you down in the least. The graphics are 
 splendid, the storyline plays out very well, and the new BFG is awesome. The pace of the game is 
 great, and the apocalyptic environment does really well to enhance gameplay. In fact, I felt really 
 nice that the original Doom was revved up to become something like this... but after so-many hours 
 of gameplay, the ending really let me down. I won't spoil it for you, but let's just say that I 
 was hoping for something more "grand". Maybe the expansion pack will resolve this issue, but at 
 this point I'm so disappointed that I don't think I'll play the expansion. The best thing about 
 the game is that the storyline plays out very well... the story progresses mostly as you pick up 
 PDAs and learn more, not by talking to a thousand different people and then putting the pieces 
 together.
  
  One way or the other, this game is recommended for everyone, especially fans of the original doom. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  Well, Doom 3 is perhaps one of the first games that wanted to be with best graphics among with Far 
 Cr and Painkiller. And so Doom 3 has amazing graphics, very charming and very creepy sometimes, especially 
 when there is one red lamp in the room and zombie attacks from the red light. But actually it becomes 
 not so scary when you reach the half of the game, because you will get use to scary attacks of the 
 creeps in the station. The sound is just... I don't know... is just killing, it makes the whole game 
 to feel so unamiable. Also there're some very strange things that you hear on the radio... why it's 
 strange. Because you here how few soldiers can't handle one Imp, but in the same time you can handle 
 20 of them without problems and you're an ordinary soldier and nothing makes you so special. And 
 another thing... there're these robots that's going to help you sometimes and they're actually so 
 strong and immortal, why they can't handle the allien attack and the station needs you to deal with 
 the "demons". An the most anoying thing is the flashlight. You can't wear your flashlight with your 
 weapon in the same time. That's just stupid, you're fighting with future weapons, but they can't wear 
 some light... Bu the gameplay is very fun and cool. I thing everyone should take a look of this game. It's 
 not so difficult and it's not so scary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  My, my, my... Once upon a time we looked to Id Software with tears on our eyes, thanking profusively 
 each time they blessed us with one of their shooters. Doom I, Doom 2, Quake I, Quake 2, Quake 3... 
 They all have a place in FPS heaven and in our hearts... but now, the Den Mother has made a terrible 
 mistake: It has overlooked the competition, and has made a game that is too antiquated in its soul. 
 So, how things go with Doom 3?
  
  The story is so shallow you dont even have a name. You are a generic marine. The bad guy? Malcolm 
 Betruger, a wacko scientist (omg!) who wants to bring Hell on Mars (and Earth, if he cans) without 
 any plausible reason whatsoever. Thats the excuse to have you blasting demons for 17 hours in dark, 
 tight corridors while finding keys (oh, sorry. They are PDAs now) , suffering cheap scare after 
 another.
  
  Most people will say this simplicity is a tribute to the old Doom... But thats just lame excuse 
 to hide the fact that gameplay-wise, Id screwed up badly with this game. There are no real narrative 
 gimmicks, the characters are extremely unbelievable, and the circumstances are a constant thorn 
 in the side of the story. The fact that no weapon has an alternate fire mode, makes this game the 
 incredibly standard parade of "Pistol-shotgun-machine gun" which have a lame sound that contrasts 
 heavily with the ambiental perfection that surrounds you.
  
  This leads to the good points. The shadow and light technology is outstanding, and the use of bumpmaps, 
 while sometimes excessive, guarantee a high level of graphic quality. the sound is well made (except 
 for those weapons... jeez, air guns anyone?) and the ambient sounds are incredibly varied. The 
 bestiary is well rendered, though limited (no more than 12 creeps) and the gore is pleasing.
  
  However, thats it. This game is just pure graphic engine. The "game" is a repetitive exercis 
 of killing imps sloowly, without any of the fun that the original Doom had. The ending is absurd, 
 and brings no closure to an already limping story.
  
  A less-than-mediocre game, with great graphics, but nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Story: 3/10
  A terrible story with a good starting (chapter 1 and 2) , repetitive mid and a horrible, stupid 
 ending.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  A normal standard gameplay for a FPS and make real shocking to the players. Graphics: 9/10
  for 
 a 2004 game, this game's graphic is superb, like FarCry
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Creepy, scary screaming, hellish creatures' shouts, creating a great atmosphere.
  
  Value: 
 6/10
  Not really replayable for SP. but SP's campaign is long enough.
  If you looking for MP, consider another game.
  
  Tilts: 2/10
  Well, this game got superb 
 graphic, great gameplay, amazing sound, but with a weak story. most importantly is the repetitive 
 content. u feel like playing the same maps over and over again. Walk &gt; Scream sound &gt; creature 
 pop out &gt; attack &gt; walk.
  
  Overall: A 100% shocking FPS + great graphic, sound, gameplay + weak story, content. Not recommend 
 to buy cause there is so much alternative now (FEAR) , so rent it first or just play the demo, and 
 u can expect the full game just as same as the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kordell
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Entertaining for the first hour or so and predictable and boring once you get a feel for the timing 
 of the game. There are no variables to the game as it is a liner event with timed sprites. This 
 is a very old style in thinking and script writing, I expected more out of this group. I started 
 early on knowing when I was getting jumped from behind and or from which side they were hiding. 
 I do have to say that they got the lighting and "Mood" right on this. I jumped out of my seat a 
 couple of times, even though I expected what was coming. They were several times that I was sweating 
 in anticipation of the next shooting match with these bad guys. 
  The Story line was ok, but it was obviously leading into a sequel, which is what has happened. 
 I will not be buying the sequel as I am done with this game. I had and played the original DOOM 
 when it first came out on the large floppies years ago. That was a revolutionary game. I was a 
 little let down with Quake but still loved it. It was addictive. I just feel that they keep doing 
 just the same basic thing in nicer clothing. It is pretty to see, but its the same game I have 
 played a thousand times before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atreides241
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  This Game is Fun, Addictive, and Scary
  
  I read a review about this game he's saying the game was boring and repetitive, the ironic part 
 is he kept saying he is trapped in a "Space Station", But we all know that the settings of the 
 game is a Futuristic Mars City, Yes the settings were on Mars.
  
  DID YOU HAVE A SPEAKER AND A SUB WOOFER BY ANY CHANCE?
  
  Oh yeah, the review.
  
  They 
 say this game is repetitive... did you play the one time on the game recruit difficulty? of course 
 it will be repetitive. "we" played the game on recruit because we were newbies at first, after 
 finishing it, we played the hardest difficulty. and you know what... its not repetitive at all, 
 your bullets will suffice but not enough, Medi Packs are there, which you'll need because you'll 
 probably dying. Instincts come in to place, Like listening to footsteps (not including zombies that 
 are pre-dead of course) LOOKING at the SHADOws of the enemies... dark corridors that feels like 
 something will come out, that apparently it does. and of course.. dont change the brightness... 
 FLASHLIGHT is one of the things that makes the game awesome because any city thats sitting on a 
 place that life on earth cant breathe outside of it will certainly have Dark Dark Corridors and 
 Power Failures......... we tried hitting the boss with flashlight..... well we died. we were too 
 near.
  
  
  DID YOU SEE THAT?, "what?", THE SHADOWS SOMETHING MOVED, "martians..."
  
  
  
  Sounds were terrific.
  
  and LOOK at the detail on that thing.... wow. every object 
 is real-like except we know its futuristic and it isnt really existed.
  
  organic events such as vents has smokes naturally, heat pipe generates steam of course. Power Failures...
 
  
  
  enemies is kinda repetitive. in a way yes, when your in mars and living in a DOME its common sense 
 that theres no animals such as lions, monkeys, and crocodiles. what you are expecting a human species.... 
 so naturally your enemies will be humanoids... because the real cause of the happenings is an organic 
 germ/virus. and yeah you probably know that the humans are so near to said germs. that they attached 
 to these humans and morphed them to their suitings/bidding...
  
  
  SINCE WHEN DID YOU USE SPRINT?
  
  
  THE MOST UNIQUE thing is that
  1.) I can do Window 
 Shopping
  2.) I am actually watching a TV (on the kitchen)
  3.) I can read people's emails....
  4.) I stole your PDA thats why I can access that door over 
 there..
  5.) cutscenes are amazing...
  6.) A game that prohibits you from jumping while crouching.
  7.) A game that does not need hot 
 rides to be cool.
  
  The Obvious Bad
  1.) When Strafing left and right... upper torso does not move... just steady like a rock.
  
 
  2.) Playing this game over and over again is un-advisable since this game is story driven...... errr.... 
 a one way story.. : )
  
  3.) FLASHLIGHT IS STRONGER THAN PISTOL, Pistol is just plain bad.... why it have to be so weak.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------
  All in All ,
  scary and amazing... oh and low requirements..
  
  
  and someone said it is not influenced 
 by doom, "MARS SOIL" you can see it on the window at doom, you can see it at the introduction movie 
 of DOom 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quick111
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  While the story of the movies and the games are different, the blood and gore makes this game great! 
 I gave it a solid 9 because the game is fun and all, but it could use some adjustments; first of 
 all, the flying skull heads are too fast. I could only kill one in the first level! Second, it 
 my graphics card sucks, so it was too dark in some parts. Third (and finally) it needs alot more 
 mother******* blood!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! and this is just to get the 100 words: hi hin hi hi 
 him hi hi hi hih hi hi hi hi hjh hjh hi hi hi hih hih hih ih jih ih hi hi hih hih hihm hih hi ih 
 hi hih 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mothkin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  this game is disappointing. on one hand, this game has great graphics (especially for the time 
 it was made) , fun FPS gameplay with some really fun weapons to use, and is very successful at giving 
 a scary doom-like experience. on the other hand, once you've killed a few zombies and a few imps, 
 you really wont get anything new for the whole game. you will have to face more enemies, but nothing 
 actually new. also, the final boss battle makes no sense at all and is anticlimactic. overall, 
 this could have been a good game, but instead, was very boring and a disappointment after an hour 
 or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxy456
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I always been a Doom fan when i heard Doom 3 was coming out for pc i was excited because i thought 
 it would be like all the the other doom's
  but it doesn't the addictivenese of the first 2 doom's graphics are awesome but that's not the 
 point i thought it was repetive shoot find key open door shoot advance level so forth the multiplayer 
 ain't that great but all with all that said Doom 3 is a solid game that i recommend to borrow from 
 a friend or maybe a buy maybe when they might make a doom 4 the game will have the addictivnese 
 like doom and doom 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Once I played this on my PC I knew I just had to have this game! I love horror-thriller games like 
 Doom 3 and hope that they do make Doom 4! This starts out as a lighted game but very soon into 
 the game it becomes dark and sinister. Things lurking in the dark and the boogy man waiting to 
 pounce on you! I have Doom 3 and have won it and have not won yet.
  I have Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil and have not won the Expansion yet. Over all I give this game 
 a perfect because it is nothing like the Originals in graphics plot or overall road killing with 
 your guns! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXSakaiXx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that has a interesting story at the start but later on it just gets 
 a bit boring. The graphics overall is good, the gameplay overall is okay and the enemy are not 
 that difficult. It is a fast paced action shooting game that needs you always to check your six. 
 The killing of monsters and demon gets rather addictive especially when it comes to killing zombies. 
 They look as real as movies. This game would be a great game if it had some an interesting storyline. 
 Its the usual scientist found something, athority tries to control situation, situation goes bad 
 and basically you have to solve the problem by blowing everything up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanIce2
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This might as well be the end of DOOM 
  I think the graphics suck, really.. it's just those random heavy 2004 graphics that were used in 
 many games at that time.. I just.. don't like this game.
  I think this game ruined the series.. I love Doom because it was awesome with great enemy sprites, 
 and Doom 64 was like the beginning of Doom 3.. it created the lame gray Imp you see in Doom 3. 
 but at least Doom 64 was better.. Doom 3 always happens in a spacestation.. you can NEVER go outside.. 
 like in Doom, you could always see the air in some levels.. and in Doom 2 you were sometimes walking 
 around in a city. same with Final Doom.. but in Doom 3.. you are stuck inside, and the game isn't 
 even scary! come on.. and it didn't even shock me anything with jumping enemies through doors or 
 whatever.. they should continue with the classic Doom games.. create a new one with more bosses 
 and enemies in 2D sprites and call THAT Doom 4.
  and why is this suppose to be a remake of the first game? in the first game you were in a level 
 called hangar , you could even see outside that you were not on a space station.. the levels also 
 made no sense in the classic doom games.. and that is what made it so good. knowing that you're 
 in a spacestation.. STUCK somewhere makes me feel sick.. and I can't play this game longer than 
 15 minutes.. I've seen my brother win this game and the expansion pack.. and I've also played this 
 game with 4 friends with 4 PC's and the only thing I ever enjoyed was the final boss.. and I didn't 
 even enjoy him.. is he beatable without cheating? we died all the time.. huh.. but the game was 
 so damn boring with those space stations that doing it WITH others didn't even help.. still the 
 same old crappy game.. ugh.
  this game gets a 2.5 from me.. not even worth having as a desktop icon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xuerebx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  The game is futuristic set in Mars. The whole game is played in a large lab/complex (9/10 of the 
 time) where this very sophisticated place is attacked by these alien monsters.
  
  The story is really gripping, the weapons are cool and make you feel powerful whenever for example 
 you blast this pigfaced alien's face. Gives you a certain adrenaline. There are also scares here 
 and then, which made me jump while playing! Playing at night sometimes made me play the game extra-cautious!
 
  
  Doesn't need a high end computer to be able to play it at high settings, so newish computers should 
 have no problems at all. A geforce 6600 equivalent or better is sufficient.
  
  I recommend this game! And when you're finished - play it's expansion. Not as good as the original, 
 but still fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arthul2786
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 in my opinion, should be one of the top 5 of the genre. It offers an intense atmosphere 
 that is best played at night with the sound up. In some areas it seems too dark but, I rather enjoy 
 it. It adds to the repugnant environment around you. The game also has more of a plot than the 
 previous ones.
  
  Graphics - First of all, I have to mention the graphical power of this game. It is the best I've 
 seen so far. The visuals are extraordinary. The Doom 3 engine is truly a next step for gaming. 
 The only downfall about this is that you have to own a top of the line system to play it.
  
  Sound - The audio is absolutely amazing (may have to do with the fact that I have a good system) . 
 Every sound is crisp and just makes everything creepier. From glass windows breaking, zombie groans, 
 to panels popping off walls, and etc. This game has made me come out of my seat many times.
  
  Flashlight - As I said before, some areas seem too dark. A good time to use this tool right? 
 The flashlight is an essential item for Doom 3. Switching back from your weapons to this gadget 
 will be occurring to the very end. This just gives the game more of an uneasy feeling while doing 
 it (since you have no weapon for the moment) .
  
  PDA (s) - Now this is like a palm pilot. It's a mini electronic computer that carries; mission objectives, 
 email, videos, and audio logs. Vital information that will help you along the way. You can also 
 pick up other PDAs from dead scientists as well. Listening to audio logs (which alot think it's 
 unnecessary) gives more flavor to the game and some are rather disturbing. Email is something I 
 browse through. The main idea here is looking for a code to unlock a door, locker, and etc. Make 
 fun of it because you'll be doing it alot and you do find some intriguing plot lines.
  
  This game has a different feel than the other ones (which I think is very unique and original) . 
 I recommend this game to anyone who wants to experience a new type of FPS gameplay. The plot is 
 good but, not superb. It does have its flaws as every game usually does. It's not about shooting 
 hordes of enemies at once. It is designed to scare you. You are alone often and just seeing your 
 surroundings can send shivers down your spine. Conserve your ammo because you'll need it to go 
 through this nightmare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zubidoo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was one of the most highly anticipated remakes in gaming history, thanks in most part to 
 the amazing graphics engine it introduced. Although the gameplay isn't truly groundbreaking, it 
 is definitely an experience worth having.
  
  The gameplay is basically like the original Doom - you run around, shoot demons from hell, get 
 PDAs (the equivalent of Doom 1's keys) , shoot more demons, etc. The twist here is that you can 
 stop and watch videos either on your PDA or on monitors scattered throughout the Mars facility, 
 and you can pick up plot bits from reading e-mails or listening to audio messages on your PDA. 
 This is important as it allows you to get that weapons cabinet password that you need to get more 
 ammo, armor or health. I WILL say, though, that it gets a little tedious to have to listen to and 
 read all of these things, but thankfully the writing and dialogue is usually good (sometimes great) . 
 There are a bunch of different weapons to acquire including machine guns, plasma cannons, shotguns, 
 miniguns, chainsaws and BFG's (no explanation necessary) . They are all fun to use even if they 
 ARE old hat in the world of first person shooters. The Mars station levels start to get pretty 
 similar to another each for a LONG amount of time and this presents probably the biggest problem 
 I have with the game. The game definitely does get a little repetitive in certain spots, but fortunately 
 the game just looks and sounds SO nice that you're probably going to forgive the game of this flaw. 
 It is actually a pretty hard game in various places, but it's certainly not the hardest game ever. 
 It's relatively easy to find ammo and health and armor. Unfortunately, they just don't mix up the 
 gameplay enough to take it to that next level. The story/PDA messages and the general spooky atmosphere, 
 though, definitely help to remedy this. Overall, don't expect much of a change from what the original 
 Doom had in terms of gameplay.
  
  The story itself is actually pretty engaging, and although it does get a little tedious to have 
 to pick it up from reading/listening to long and sometimes lame PDA messages, the first time you 
 play through this game you will be LOVING it. This is DEFINITELY one of those games that will awe 
 you the first time you finish it (sadly, that's also it's downfall in terms of replayability. Once 
 you know what happens, it's not as cool the second time through) . I'm not going to spoil what happens, 
 but needless to say it's one of the coolest experiences in the world of gaming, I would argue.
 
  
  The soundtrack isn't particularly memorable musically, but it does convey the mood very well. It 
 definitely serves its purpose in scaring you and making you feel like you are alone with a bunch 
 of creepy monsters. The sound effects are pretty well done and help to give the power and intensity 
 to the guns that they really needed in order to work well (although sometimes the sound quality 
 is a little fuzzy or not that great - I remember it not being like that the first time I played 
 it, but with my new surround sound system the audio logs are especially muffled and hard to make 
 out) . When you shotgun blast an Imp to death, you FEEL that blast, and it feels awesome. All of 
 the background noises/computer and electronic hummings going on and what have you all add greatly 
 to the creepiness of the overall environments. That evil laugh you hear throughout the game (although 
 it IS overused a bit) is just... perfect. It's a cliche, yet it just sounds so RIGHT somehow. You'll 
 see.
  
  The graphics are easily the best part about this game, and you'll definitely see why in the last 
 few levels. Although they aren't PERFECT, I would argue (not enough variety in environments and 
 even lighting for most of the game - this does get annoying) , they get the job done in conveying 
 a scary ass Mars space station! It's dark almost everywhere, and although that's a bit of a cheap 
 way to scare people, you aren't going to be complaining considering all of the many times you will 
 actually stop and not want to go into an area because it just LOOKS terrifying. There were many 
 MANY times during the game where I felt like I was ACTUALLY there, as the graphics are simply a 
 sight to behold. My one complaint here is that the characters look just a tad like plastic, even 
 though realism is what they were going for. Thankfully this isn't that big of an issue.
  
  The multiplayer is easily the worst part of the game. It's not bad, but it's standard deathmatch 
 with all of the weapons in the game plus a few powerups and the amazing graphics quality of the 
 single-player game. It can get laggy and the controls are a little awkward, and overall it doesn't 
 add anything new or exciting enough to pull you away from the Counter-Strikes or Half-Life: Deathmatches 
 of the world. This definitely takes away from the replayability of the game considering that there 
 are no alternative endings or secrets in the game at all (not counting the hidden rooms in the 
 game that have extra ammo) . Perhaps in the future when everybody's computer can run Doom 3 perfectly 
 it will be a fun LAN party deathmatch game, but right now it's nothing too special.
  
  To put it simply, this is an experience that every self-respecting gamer needs to have, even IF 
 it has its fair share of flaws. The repetition in the environments and gameplay gets sort of bad, 
 and that can be a big factor not only in replayability but even in beating the game the first time 
 around. Regardless, I highly doubt that you will be disappointed. The multiplayer may also be simple 
 deathmatch, but it's fun enough to have a reasonably good time with it at a LAN party (provided 
 that everyone has a computer fast enough to run it) . It is a near classic that I would definitely 
 recommend! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spider-Man_Toi
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Man this game rocks it so good the weapons are cool the monsters are scary ( not when u get used 
 to them ) .Game play is sick ... Story is awesome and graphics are nice . Multi player is fun. 
 The technology used is nice the story is not just lame . The maps are professional. ID is a good 
 company of games and activision too so both made this awesome game , doom 3 . I never was interested 
 in this game but my friend gave it to me and thanks to him i get to play such an awesome game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddogg74
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an amazing game that was worth the time and money I spent on it. The graphics are amazing 
 for the time it was made in. The online multiplayer is good and worth giving a go. The story is 
 good but could have used a better ending and at least had a player that talked back to people instead 
 of being silent. The scary theme was great and did make me jump in some parts and the game definitely 
 makes you jump when your up late with the lights off and the volume turned right up.
  
  Doom 3 is an excellent game and I recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_cats_4_life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a great game with visuals that will blow you away. This game is awsome and when I beat 
 with my friend I was amazed. This is the scariest game I have ever played and it is also one of 
 the funnest. The point of the game is that you are a new reqited marine that works for the UAC. 
 When your first job is told you must find a lost scientist and bring him back safley but when you 
 find him you discover that all hell has broken lose on mars (literaly) . You must fight your way 
 through many enemys and a veriaty a weopens to safe mars and the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Texlar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I like the graphics and the speed of which everything happens. It does not allow you to rest very 
 long in any one place. The difficulty is good and keeps you on your toes. I have not made it through 
 very far and I do plan on keep trying without cheating. But eventually I will have to so that I 
 will know what I am missing further into the game. But even if I cheat, I will keep trying to make 
 it through without the cheats. I think if that if you are a fan of blood and gore, you will enjoy 
 this one as well as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luieburger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing TF2 recently, so it was hard for my friend to pull me away (like a baby sucking 
 his thumb) to get me to try Doom3. You'll love the atmosphere he said. So I decided to give it 
 a chance. Doom... I had only briefly played the original Doom back during my childhood years along 
 with a little Wolfenstein. I didn't expect much. I didn't truly expect to finish the game. I figured 
 it might even be as abysmal as Lost Planet.
  
  At first I thought my predictions were right. The games graphics were average for 2004 when compared 
 to Half Life 2's amazing effort on their artwork and character creation, the monsters weren't too 
 bright, the strategy was lacking, and there were no real puzzles. One thing that did catch my eye 
 was the cool little display screens you can interact with when you point your cross hairs at them. 
 They are very versatile and are used to display information for the player and give them decisions 
 to make. Also cool were the locked ammo cabinets that required pass codes to enter. This kind of 
 control goes beyond the standard press E or enter to activate that goes with most FPS games.
  
  I can't say the storyline exactly pulled me in from the beginning. To be honest the first half 
 of the game could be completely removed as far as I'm concerned. Most of the game I was running 
 around killing the same monsters over and over thinking I hope this game ends soon so that I could 
 return to TF2.
  
  It isn't until you enter Hell that you begin to feel a sense of purpose or have a goal that you 
 want to complete. The character development picks up a touch, and you really want to get to the 
 boss fights. Lots of smaller goals also appear, such as finding and unlocking the BFG or aptly 
 named Big (Fuc/Frea) king Gun.
  
  During the last quarter of the game, your adrenaline really hits the ceiling and more scripted 
 events appear to color the world around you. You begin to feel like you are really in the game, 
 and what I call FPS Zen occurs. The monsters get bigger, meaner, and more numerous. You just have 
 to keep getting quicker and more accurate.
  
  Near the end is where you really begin to notice the artwork. The game really looks fabulous and 
 it isn't because of any special 3d technology. The artists really put a lot of time into their 
 textures and modeling. No the characters may not truly evoke emotions from you like in Half Life 
 2, but the monsters really scare you, the caves and corridors really looks spooky, and you end 
 up being taken away. It's an experience that few games truly achieve.
  
  I didn't really expect much from John Carmack, but in the end it was all worth it. The game is 
 extremely long and full of content. I expected to conquer it in a matter of 8 hours but it took 
 me over twice that and I'm not one to tip toe slowly through a game.
  
  The control is keen (no pun intended) the weapons are classic, the violence is appropriate, the 
 game is just plain awesome.
  
  Overall it is a solid FPS experience. It is a PC game through and through. Props to John Carmack 
 for continuing to make GREAT PC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  I really like this game, personally, but I just don't feel like playing it in the day time &gt;:) 
 As a shooter, it doesn't have anything special, but as a horror-game, it's very good, but, I repeat, 
 only if you play it in the night time. That's the whole point of horror games, actually, only puss**s 
 play them in the day time :) ) The graphics are pretty good for the year 2004 but it's **** compared 
 to HL2's graphics wich was released in the same year (so basically, they should have the same graphics) . 
 So, yeah the single-player is great, but the multiplayer feels unfinished and it's very, very laggy 
 wich is disappointing because it could have been great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whermacht02
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Doom3 is all about atmosphere. Everything is extremely dark and the engine does a great job with 
 the light sources and shadows. A lot of players complain about the well known monster-in-the-closet 
 trick, but I still think that Doom3 manages to deliver a satisfying and scary experience. The story 
 is a cliche, but it evolved from its original version on Doom and Doom 2. The sound is solid, except 
 for the sound of some of the weapons, its like the pistol and the SMG don't sound ok. What I really 
 missed was the ambient music. Doom and Doom 2 had this midi soundtracks playing in the background 
 when you were fighting wave after wave of demons, but I was surprised to find out that Doom3 didn't 
 have that kind of sound track. All in all, the game is definitely enjoyable and the atmosphere 
 will have you at the edge of your seat as you advance through the corridors of the different UAC 
 facilities 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theflashxwmc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an unarguably beautiful game to look at. Face it - if you don't have a top notch computer 
 you probably won't even be able to open the title screen on this puppy, because there is so much 
 new technology that seriously lags graphics processors. The story in this game is pretty run-of-the-mill: 
 a space soldier on assignment while getting mixed up in a plot to bring hell to Earth. There is 
 nothing that really makes you feel like you're doing anything epic because the game is confined 
 to a few small command posts and archaeological sites, but there is not much human interaction. 
 After fighting the same enemies over an over with no motive other than staying alive, the game 
 gets pretty tiresome fairly quickly.
  
  Here are some of the mechanics which sets this game apart:
  
  -Screens (Television and Monitor) 
 can be intuitively interacted with: the player doesn't have to press any foreign keys and the mouse 
 controls just like it does on an actual computer
  - The environments have a lot of moving parts and really add to the dynamism of the atmospheres
 
  - The lighting is extremely realistic and any light can be shot out realistically, erasing it's 
 beam
  - The flashlight actually casts shadows on objects pointed at
  - Enemies with fireballs are the most developed because there is a fair warning for the experienced 
 player to dodge their attacks
  - In-game acting is extraordinary and the story would suffer if this wasn't so, since the story 
 heavily relies on the personal memos of various characters
  -Because most of the spaces are small areas, the amount of overall detail is at times unbelievable 
 - Mirrors reflect realistically (most games don't even have mirrors to avoid this problem!) and 
 the character actually has individual animations for switching weapons! - Some rooms are highly 
 interactive and triggers cause a normal room to start becoming it's own life force- with moving 
 lights on walls and transforming textures, all in real-time
  
  Here are some areas that could benefit from some extra attention: - Shadows are pitch black (shadows 
 in reality are never 100% saturated, and usually posses a minuscule amount of hue)
  - Textures are at times too plane when compared right next to one with a higher resolution
  - 
 All enemies have a predetermined number of shots from each gun before dieing- there is no hit detection 
 other than close shooting and distance: enemies cannot be suppressed with a single headshot
  - There are too many doors to deal with and environments tend to get indistinguishable at times 
 because they all look too similar when in certain areas: this actually caused me to get lost quite 
 a few amount of times - Since everything is in such close quarters, there is not a whole lot of 
 strategy other than duck and shoot: also, there is a lot of retreat firing 
  - AI is too aggressive and resultingly a bit infant; for example: if the player jumps to lower 
 platform that is surrounded by railing from stairs, they will not attack and just walk around aimlessly
 
  - Enemies seem to pop up out of thin air and always sandwich the player which is never the funnest 
 situation
  - All npc's suffer from being identical - they are mostly bald and wear glasses and have wide cheekbones 
 - The zoom function is nearly useless since enemies usually appear within walking distance
  - Particle effects really lag system- especially when there are 3 beasts throwing a dynamically 
 lit fireball at the same time - fps dropping in the 20's on a card that produces fluid 60fps on 
 games like f. e. a. r. (not to mention the 16x antialiasing that will bring any system to it's knees... the 
 difference is beyond human comprehension anyway)
  - Explosion barrels are usually in undesirable locations and don't help much for killing an enemy, 
 therefore they are usually avoided as a strategy
  - Can't enjoy beauty when running through it the whole time (avoiding death)
  - Trying to get 
 down a ladder properly, especially in the heat of battle, cause more damage than the final boss
 
  - Some enemies attacks seem to be unavoidable
  - Support in the form of updates/mods/extra content have seemed to be abandoned with broken links 
 everywhere on the site
  - Boss fights pose a trial-and-error means of gameplay which forces the user to restart because 
 the initial encounter is too hot to handle
  
  Doom 3 is a game that seems to do too much in one small title, while overlooking the smallest core 
 mechanics that make any game a hit. It is often a shame that the combat couldn't be more challenging 
 since the environments provide so much potential. The game makes only minor strides in the form 
 of revolutionizing the fps genre. There are so many great fps's out there now and it's hard for 
 a game with a central theme to keep up. Doom 3 tries to include features from games with transitional 
 story lines, which can handle so many different elements ,with some difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiKyung
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  This game is about someone in Mars with massive monsters and he survive until help comes. This 
 game is quiet long and very nice graphic. But sometime you can lost the way because well... it's 
 too big place. In this game you don't press F button to turn on light with gun in your hand. You 
 have to change flash light so this means whenever you are hearing growling sound and crashing sound 
 you gotta put away flash light and take out shot gun. Also here is funny thing... shoot at people 
 and they die! This is first time i ever saw something like this happens... but shoot someone and 
 you can't keep going because some people can open door or something... The weapons are look cool 
 as Sci-Fi game. You gotta choose good weapon as situration. But this game feels like... not good 
 as Half Life 2 and F. E. A. R... but you can play if you are FPS lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hex008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  You start out as a marine on mars. Soon, all hell breaks loose, and it's up to you to save they 
 day.
  
  The game play is pretty fun, though it get's somewhat repetitive. You basically run around, some 
 enemies pop up, you flinch, you shoot, you kill, you run some more. At first the way enemies pop 
 up out of nowhere and shriek at you will make you jump, but after a while you get so used to it 
 you hardly notice. You have some decent weapons, although some do feel like clones of others. Besides 
 all this, you constantly have to switch to your flashlight to be able to see in the dark area. 
 Make no mistake, it is tideous at times, but otherwise very fun.
  
  The story is interesting, but it isn't worked out enough threw the game. It feels a little incomplete. 
 There are many twists as well though, you'll be guessing and predicting all the time. If they had 
 only pumped some more feel into the story. Shame.
  
  The graphics are good, but you'll never find yourself thinking anything looks 'too real'. Nothing 
 much to say here. Everything is well made, smooth looking, and fits nicely with other objects or 
 characters.
  
  Conclusion: Doom is a hellafun (Terrible pun, intended) game that everyone should try. It's hellish 
 feel is definitely worth experiencing, and you'll spend long, dark hours alone in your basement 
 playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pablo_SL
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  The most impressive things of this game are of course the visual effects, but thats not the only 
 thing about this game. Everything is so well prepared that for moments you will feel real fear, 
 the monster's sound are just as scaring as they are and they are really scary the just look so 
 organic that you will think they're truly alive. It also gives a justification to the story of 
 the great first doom and it will be introduced to you as you go along the game on a perfect way. 
 in conclusion its a great sequel to the original Doom that is probably one of the best shooters 
 ever conceived, and you have to try it if you want a know what it really feels to be playing it, 
 screen shots are nothing compared to the game itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Time hasnt been kind to Doom 3. The graphics engine didnt look all that great and the repettive 
 level design and utter lack of story didnt help matters. Sure its an FPS but how many times can 
 one walk down a dark corridor? Far Cry's graphics and enemy AI was superior to Doom 3 and that 
 game come out the year before Doom 3.
  
  Quake 4 came out a bit later using the Doom 3 engine and if one is looking strictly at the single 
 player, Quake 4 is a better playing and looking FPS than Doom 3.
  
  Doom 3 was easily one of the biggest disappointments in recent gaming years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is id software's re-imagining of the original Doom game that changed the way people perceived 
 FPS's. Even though it is a remake of sorts, it is completely different in terms of the first Doom.
 
  
  Before I played Doom 3, I was reminded of my studies in school about the id, a portion of your 
 brain that works as a breeding ground for bad or unethical thoughts. There is more to it, but in 
 ways nightmares come from the id portion of your brain. This is very appropriate for the way id 
 software designed Doom 3.
  
  Based on a ground breaking new engine, but a little old as of today, Doom 3's graphics never cease 
 to impress, even today in 2007. The game has been criticized for being too dark, and I would agree. 
 But the lighting is the star of the show, throwing shadows around in very realistic fashions, and 
 the darkness only serves to further intensify the uneasy feeling created by the games atmosphere. 
 The NPC's in the game, although a little plastic looking, are brought to life with great texturing 
 and the environments are impossibly detailed. The monsters are the center of attention; however, 
 as they are mostly re-invisioned from the original Doom.
  
  The game is also loose on story and very linear. The story has been adapted from the original, 
 and slightly tweaked. The story is still too loose; however, as it feels like an afterthought. 
 The setting is a futuristic Mars colony that has set up base for scientific studies. Alien relics 
 and scriptures have been found and are being studied. There is also a controversial study of teleportation 
 going on. Most of the story is picked up through PDA's left around from scientists and other workers 
 around the base. It is a shame that most of the story is purveyed this way, as it really breaks 
 up the action to read a long winded PDA. There is the occassional cut scene, but it doesn't do 
 much for the story. Basically, you are a nameless, speechless marine that has been brought in to 
 investigate the disappearance of a scientist. Once you find him, all hell breaks loose. Literally. 
 While most of the inhabitants on the base get turned into zombies, some stay alive, and it is up 
 to you to go it alone and find out what the hell brought hell to Mars.
  
  Thankfully, someone decided to bring a lot of firepower to Mars, as you will be armed to the teeth 
 with monster slaughtering firepower. Well, sometimes at least. Even though there is a good amount 
 of different weapons strewn about the base, firepower sometimes feels limited. This is a good thing, 
 as it keeps the tension high. You have a large assortment to choose from, when you get them, including 
 you fists, a chainsaw, a flashlight (used mostly to see in the dark) , a pistol, shotgun, plasma 
 gun, chaingun, grenades, rocket launcher, plasma rifle, BFG and a special weapon, the soul cube. 
 All the mentioned weapons work as they should, but the two worth mentioning is the BFG and soul 
 cube. The BFG, like in all games in has been put in, is quite literally a big freakin' gun. In 
 this game, it feels to me as it was a little underpowered. It didn't have the punch it did in the 
 first Doom or Quake 2. When fired, it will almost kill any enemy in the room, and you can hold 
 down fire to charge it. When put up against bosses, it is powerful, but still a little weak. The 
 soul cube is very cool, as it will kill any enemy and give you full health when you use it. You 
 can only use it once for every 4 enemies you kill with a normal weapon, though. Unfortunately, 
 most of the weapons sound under powered. For example, the pistol sounds like a pop when shot, but 
 if an enemy shoots the pistol, it sound more like a gun shot. The chainsaw sounds great though!
 
  
  The game relies too heavily on the flashlight. As mentioned earlier, the game is very dark, and 
 the reliance on a flashlight is very high. Even when the marine gets sent to hell later in the 
 game, it is quite dark for what one would think hell would be like. Some people got the idea to 
 create a duct tape mod to tape the flashlight to a gun, and this is a great idea, but takes away 
 a little of the mood. The multiplayer is also lacking. When it was first released, only 4 players 
 could play at once. Even though some modders have increased that number, multiplayer is still dull. 
 Only a few modes are available for play and they have been seen a hundred times over in past games.
 
  
  Doom 3 is quite a game and should not be missed by any gamer today. Even with the high system requirements 
 for the time it was released, it should be at the point where any self proclaimed PC gamer should 
 have a rig with able to play this at moderate settings. It takes a little over 10 hours for the 
 single player game, and unfortunately there is little replay value, unless you want to tackle the 
 insanely hard nightmare mode after you beat the game. The multiplayer will probably not last too 
 long, either, so make sure you set it at least medium difficulty the first go around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shingler10
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Well, we all know the graphics are good, the weapons are good, and so is the gameplay. So.... what 
 is the problem? Well, i wish someone would turn a dang light on! I personally, get rather bored 
 of running through a corridor, with a tiny flashlight, wandering which monster it will be that 
 will jump from the ceiling around the next corner. The whole game (all 3 discs of it) is played 
 running around some blown up mars base, looking for dead scientists PDA's, various card keys, and 
 other such items. Would be a hell of a lot better if some was played outside, or even... if they 
 had decent backup lighting! Is seriously distressing running through dark corridors with you maglight 
 for about 20hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snofelj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  DOOM 3 is a retelling of the original DOOM, in which you play a lone unnamed space marine on Mars 
 single-handedly fighting off the forces of Hell. Make no mistake, however: this is no fast-paced 
 shoot-em-up with hordes of enemies coming at you from every direction. DOOM 3 is a methodically 
 paced shooter, shrouded in shadows, where you fight tooth and nail for every inch of real estate 
 you can get.
  
  The game's structure will undoubtedly remind many players of Half-Life. It's the year 2145, and 
 you've just arrived on Mars for your new assignment at a research facility of the Union Aerospace 
 Corporation. After you land, you're given some time to wander around and soak in the surroundings, 
 during which you interact with other characters who talk about strange goings-on. There's an amazing 
 amount of detail in these opening areas, and it's worth taking your time to explore before reporting 
 to your CO for your first official assignment, as it's the last moment of peace you'll have for 
 a while.
  
  Be sure to watch over this guy's shoulder for a minute after you register for duty.
  
  As you 
 make your way through the game's prologue, there's an air of nervousness that permeates all the 
 characters, and the mystery -- what's going on here? -- begins to build. Inevitably, Something 
 Bad Happens (TM) , and when strange demons begin attacking from every direction, you soon realize 
 that you're the only thing standing between Hell and Earth. Over the game's 27 levels (which will 
 take most players well over 20 hours to complete) , you'll slowly put together pieces of the puzzle 
 and figure out what's going on.
  
  Dancing in the Dark
  
  After a few years of seeing DOOM 3 through a handful of screenshots and movies, watching the game 
 in motion on your own PC is a sight to behold. As you can see from our own screenshots, the character 
 models are rendered with astounding detail, but it's the dynamic lighting that really steals the 
 show. Unlike DOOM 3's advanced physics system, which plays a fairly minor role in the game, the 
 lighting and shadows are completely intertwined with the gameplay every step of the way -- the 
 game is extremely dark, and you never really know what might be lurking up ahead. Your only ally 
 at this point is your flashlight, which requires that you lower your weapons to use. While this 
 might seem irritating at first, you soon develop a unique rhythm where you sweep your flashlight 
 across each new area, scouting out potential trouble spots before switching back to your weapons 
 and moving in cautiously.
  
  DOOM 3's lighting system adds some seriously dramatic flair to the already highly detailed characters.
 
  
  While the cutting-edge graphics are indeed impressive, it was the presentation of DOOM 3's world 
 and story that I enjoyed the most and kept me hooked. Early in the game, you're issued a Personal 
 Data Assistant (PDA) that can store emails, audio logs, security codes and other bits of data. 
 As you find other PDAs strewn among all the dead bodies throughout the facility, you get a glimpse 
 into the mindsets of the base's former inhabitants in the weeks leading up to your arrival.
  
  This is a game mechanic that's worked extremely well in games like TRON 2.0 and System Shock 
 2, and it works equally well here: some characters are panicked, some are mired in political struggles, 
 and some are just Average Joes trying to do their job. Amidst tense emails and audio logs describing 
 strange voices, missing technology, and rumors of ghosts, there are also fairly lighthearted messages 
 that talk about that weird guy who works down in Delta Labs or Quake 43 (right, like they'd ever 
 have that done by 2145) . Occasional cutscenes (rendered within the game's engine) help round out 
 the story, and are presented at a perfect pace. When all is said and done, it's still a pretty 
 basic sci-fi story, but in DOOM 3, presentation is everything.
  
  As far as the game's structure is concerned, DOOM 3 could essentially be split up into three acts. 
 For the first six or seven levels of the game, you're pretty much in the dark, both literally in 
 the halls of the UAC facility as well as with respect to the game's story. Most of the time, you'll 
 be getting the hang of switching between your flashlight and your shotgun, which can take out most 
 early enemies with a well-placed shot at close range. Eventually, the tone of the game changes 
 through the second stretch of the game, as you gain access to more weapons and learn which ones 
 work best against different enemies as new ones are introduced.
  
  The levels themselves are fairly easy to navigate, and your objectives are usually tried-and-true 
 FPS conventions, like finding Key X and hitting Switch Y so you can get to Area Z. But just when 
 you think the game is starting to lose its edge, something happens to suck you back in. Maybe you 
 come across someone's video log, or you have to make a mad dash across the Martian surface, or 
 there's a monorail ride, or there's a quick sequence where you have a sentry bot fighting alongside 
 you. Regardless of what it is, it seems there's always something to keep things interesting.
  
  In one memorable sequence, this scientist leads you through a darkened maze with only his lantern 
 to light the way.
  
  Finally, as you reach the closing third of DOOM 3, the game's tone shifts once again, and what 
 was once a deliberately paced crawl down dark grey hallways begins to pick up speed, venturing 
 into other settings that I won't give away. There are a few boss battles scattered about, but by 
 that time, you're a walking tank, loaded up with rockets and the updated BFG 9000. There's also 
 the new Soulcube, a nifty weapon that essentially gives you a free kill and for every five enemies 
 you dispatch of, and also replenishes your health with that taken from enemies. The game manages 
 to avoid silly FPS conventions like stocking later levels with a never-ending supply of mini-bosses, 
 and the game's pace remains better for it. For maybe the first time, id Software has made a game 
 where pace and presentation are among its strongest points, instead of an afterthought.
  
  Hide and Seek
  
  DOOM 3's combat will probably spark debate among gamers for years to come, 
 because in many ways, it's a step backward when compared to most modern first-person shooters. 
 Just about everything is kept pretty simple: you can move, jump, crouch and sprint, and that's 
 about it. You can't go prone or lean around corners, but there wouldn't be much sense to it, because 
 the majority of enemies are mindless demons whose main attack is to leap straight at you out of 
 the darkness and get close enough to smack you around. As long as you can keep some distance between 
 yourself and your enemies, you'll be in pretty good shape; once they get in tight, you're in for 
 a world of hurt (thankfully, there's a fully functional quicksave system) .
  
  While the simplistic AI isn't the worst thing in the world, I suspect a lot of gamers will take 
 some offense at the gimmicky way enemies spawn in, for reasons visible only within lines of the 
 game's code. Most rooms are devoid of enemies until you set off some invisible trigger or grab 
 a powerup, which at which point demons will teleport in to attack you. Sometimes you'll see them 
 arrive; other times they'll launch a sneak attack from an area you just cleared. This can kind 
 of be rationalized away by the fact that we're talking about demons from Hell, and in that context, 
 it's not completely ridiculous. What feels a little silly is when you see an armor jacket lying 
 by itself, and you know that picking it up will probably cause some secret panel to open, revealing 
 a zombie stashed away in a hidden broom closet. I'm not sure what these zombies did to deserve 
 closet duty, but if there's a DOOM 3 mission pack, it should probably focus on cleaning up all 
 the monsters I left behind, as I got into the habit of not picking up armor and health shards unless 
 I really needed them. At one point, I was reminded of the old Saturday Night Live Land Shark skit, 
 and half expected to find a health pack with a CANDYGRAM sign attached to it.
  
  The Pinky will charge right at you and cause massive damage, but can be taken down with a few well-placed 
 shotgun blasts.
  
  While this would be a deal-breaker for most games, the reason it works in DOOM 3 works is because 
 it's clear that the game's goal isn't to be a modern hardcore shooter, but to be scary. Sometimes 
 that illusion is generated effectively by the game's spooky lighting or fantastic ambient sound 
 effects, and other times it's played for cheap scares with enemies lurking behind secret doors. 
 No matter how it happens, the effect works: you're always looking over your shoulder, nervously 
 keeping your weapons loaded and waiting for demons to attack at any moment. It may not be scary 
 or disturbing in a Silent Hill kind of way, but you'll likely feel every bit on edge as the former 
 inhabitants of the UAC base.
  
  While DOOM 3's graphics are astounding enough on their own, what's even more impressive is how 
 well the game appears to scale to various systems. I've now run the game on three separate PC's 
 on a variety of video cards (as have a few other editors in our office) , and it seems to run well 
 at every turn. Obviously, you'd hope any game would run at a crisp 60 FPS on a 3.0 GHz machine 
 with 1GB RAM and a GeForce 6800, but we've been running just as fine on mid-level systems, like 
 2.5 GHz machines with older Ti4600 cards. Even if you're forced to run the game at 640x480, the 
 game still looks extremely impressive, so if your PC can play Far Cry or Unreal Tournament 2004 
 or Battlefield Vietnam, odds are your system can handle DOOM 3.
  
  The one aspect of DOOM 3 that's still a bit of a mystery is its multiplayer. The game only officially 
 supports 4 players at once, although we've already seen 8 and 16-player servers pop up. The game 
 has its own built-in server browser (I'm told GameSpy Arcade support could go live at any moment) , 
 and there are five deathmatch maps included with the game, which were externally developed by Splash 
 Damage (who helped create the fantastic Enemy Territory add-on for Return to Castle Wolfenstein) .
 
  
  Multiplayer is pretty straightforward, but looks exceptional in the new engine.
  
  We spent a bit of time playing the multiplayer it throughout this past week, but we haven't really 
 gotten a solid vibe out it yet. For the most part, it plays like regular deathmatch, except now 
 it comes with all the dramatic shadows, lighting and advanced physics of the DOOM 3 engine. You'd 
 think there would be a great opportunity to build a new type of deathmatch mode where players creep 
 in the shadows and methodically hunt each other down, but plasma guns and rocket launchers doesn't 
 really lend itself to that cause. On the other hand, the advanced physics system, with per-pixel 
 hit detection, could turn out to be interesting, so hopefully the mod community can produce something 
 that can help DOOM 3 reach its full potential. The development tools were included with the game, 
 so if nothing else, hopefully someone will come up with a solid co-op mod for the PC (something 
 that Xbox owners will get treated to when the game is released for the console later this year) .
 
  
  The Final Word
  
  As mentioned earlier, I think DOOM 3 will inspire highly polarized opinions among gamers. Despite 
 some structural similarities to Half-Life (and there are more than a few) , it's a lot different 
 than most first-person shooters. Combat may be the mechanic that drives the game forward, but DOOM 
 3 is really about inspiring terror from beginning to end, and from that viewpoint, it succeeds. 
 Every aspect of the game, from the lighting and sound to interactions with other players and even 
 the gimmicky way enemies appear, contributes to an overall feeling of fear and nervousness that 
 doesn't go away until the final credits roll.
  
  More than any other game in recent memory, DOOM 3 exceeds the sum of its parts. Despite some obvious 
 flaws, I absolutely enjoyed this trip to Mars from beginning to end -- there simply haven't been 
 many shooters in the past few years that have molded story, pacing, atmosphere, gameplay and technology 
 as well as DOOM 3. Sadly, once it's over and you know the whole story, the heavily scripted nature 
 of the game doesn't make DOOM 3 a journey that's quite as much fun a second time through. But that's 
 OK -- after an epic 20 hours or so, I've more than got my money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poost
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 has all the mechanics that could make it a perfect game, but it lacks in a variety of gameplay 
 and substance that would have given it that score of 10. The story begins with a Half-life style 
 introduction, which gets you familiar with the setting and the controls beforewellbefore all 
 hell breaks loose.
  
  The game itself goes out of its way to scare the player, or at least keep them on edge throughout 
 the experience. Even if there arent demons to fight, there will be steam rushing out of a pipe 
 as you pass it, or a panel will fall from the ceiling as you approach it. After awhile, this mechanic 
 gets rather dull, and you learn to expect when demons will teleport in. There are collectible PDAs 
 throughout the campaign that give a slight break from the monotony of the story. Each one often 
 has emails written by or to the person who owned the PDA, and sometimes there will be a one or 
 two audio files that you can listen to. Do the volume of the audio files though, you will even 
 up having to stand still rather than continuing on, as the demons and your gun-shots will drown 
 out the voices. Doom 3 gains a lot of credit for its amazing engine. The game is visually stunning, 
 with very detailed bump maps and textures, everything in the game has a noticeable realism to it. 
 There are, however, some problems with the control mechanics. Jumping and crouching are fairly 
 awkward, and it can often take several tries to successfully crouch-jump into a window or vent.
 
  
  Those looking for a lot of bang for their buck should consider playing this game. The single player 
 story can take 15-20 hours to complete, which is way above-average for an FPS. There are a lot 
 of levels, but after awhile they all end up looking the same.
  
  I recommend Doom 3, but dont expect to want to play through the story mode more than once or twice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a science fiction horror first-person shooter computer game. It was developed and published 
 by id Software, and was released on August 3, 2004. Doom 3, despite its name, is not a direct continuation 
 of the original Doom series storyline, but rather a re imagining of the first game in the series, 
 with the addition of a completely new game engine and graphics.
  
  Happens in the year 2145 in a fictional Union Aerospace Corporation (UAC) research center on Mars, 
 Doom 3 has the player take control of an anonymous marine as he fights to survive a mysterious 
 invasion of inter-dimensional demons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theKJ0012guy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  wow i thought resident evil veronica x was scary!!! i was wrong!!! get this game if you love zombies. 
 like the movie you were called to mars to help discover whats going on with all the attacks and 
 then it happens everyone starts getting massacred because some retard scientist unleashed them 
 and got his head blown off by yours-truely. well now you doing everthing you captain (you know 
 the guy with the girl name) tells you to do. and you end up dieing at the end thx to him but thats 
 beside the point. this is a fun game and there realy is no way not to give it a 9.7 . this game 
 kicks ass and sure beats any ofther horror game i review so far. very scary great grafix ( THE 
 LIGHTS EVEN FLICKER REASISTICALY) but always keep the controls on defualt or it'll mess up the 
 whole game. but still awesome controls!!! sound amazing from talking to robot beaping to pucking 
 to growling even. even feetsteeps evrything!!
  the good: grafix sound weapons zombie effects.
  the bad: slow movien controls at tiimes and impossible 
 jumping control that min-as-well not be there.
  great horror game though, truely amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  The good: Fast and exciteing gameplay'Amazing graphics for 2004' great sounds'exelent lighting 
 and shadows make it the all more real' it is real cheap seeing how it is a few years old
  
  The Bad: the constan darkness may get reptive to most players'Online multiplayers is as dumb as 
 ever'to many cheat codes make the game look like it's asking you to just play it for the sake of 
 it After i herd about doom i got the original one but i diden't get doom 3 for a while cuase i 
 lernd about doom in 2004 and in 2005 i wanted it but it was hard to find i would always look for 
 it in shops but a week ago i finaly found it (july 25th 2007) and the game runs great on my PC 
 it's amazing how great a game can look and run with such small requirments the story is a bit the 
 same of the classic doom but theres alot more in this on than the first doom and it's a bit spooky 
 at parts and it is a bit silly how i can only hold a torch with out a weapon the game is very long 
 so it could take you 1-2 weeks to finish and u may reconise some of the enemies that were in the 
 first doom like zombies and the red dudes and some of the other ones there is alot to say about 
 doom 3 but its just so big that it's a bit hard there 3 disks and like 10 level or more im not 
 quite sure if it's more and there are 10 weapons (Including the torch with can hit eneimies) so 
 if your lookin for a good PC game or just wanna see how brave you are get this game and the good 
 thing is cuase it's old it dosen't cost that much at all so get this game if you think it's right 
 for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aguststef
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  A real gamer has played Doom and Doom 2 in the past. They are classic games that changed gaming. 
 A shooter with full of horror and you sometimes really got scared while playing. When Doom 3 was 
 released I was scared that it couldn't follow the great hype from the old games but it didn't let 
 me down.
  
  Doom III is a fantastic game and takes game graphics to a new level. The graphics in the game are 
 absolutely perfect. You can't find a flaw in this part of the game.
  
  The gameplay is something I think is the most important of all in a game. It's so fun playing Doom, 
 you can run around and kill everything that moves but you can also just take it easy and explore 
 this wonderful world that ID Software has made for Doom.
  
  This is one of these games that you can't stop playing until you finish it.
  
  If you haven't 
 already got a little feeling of Doom III you should definatly buy it today. Nowadays it's cheap 
 and the game is still one of the best games today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  DOOM, made by ID Software, has become a cult classic in videogames, and has practically changed 
 the gaming generation. First released in the early 90's, this FPS puts you in the boots of space 
 marine, where youll fight hundreds of horrible creatures from another world. Everything from floating 
 skulls, Pinky Demons, Shotguns, Chainsaws and the good old BFG, bottomline... Doom absolutely Rocked! 
 Now after several other Doom releases, ID Software took another step in
  making yet another Doom game in its library. It introduced a brand new graphics and physic seen 
 rarely in most games. It was dark, creepy and at sometimes, completely pitch black. Realistic looking 
 and absolutely impressive at sight.. This is DOOM 3 DOOM 3 takes place in the near future, mankind 
 has colonized on Mar and now research are in the work. But, lately there have been reports of unknown 
 disturbance and many worker have requested transfers off of Mars. You play as a nameless Marine 
 sent from Earth to Mar, aiding in any military purposes. Suddenly, somethings goes wrong... very 
 very very.... VERY wrong. A portal has been opened and now all creatures from an ancient martian 
 race hace been released, needless to say.. were all DOOMED! As a marine, youll have to fight your 
 way outta Mars, shooting baddies and terrible creatures beyond the realms. The main focus of Doom 
 3, is basically a FPS survival Horror game. Yes, Doom 3 will scare you. Unless youve conqured every 
 fear and are not afraid of anything, watch out cause DOOM 3 is scary as hell. As a said, this is 
 FPS, so youll be familiar with all the weapons given to you, plus youll have to shoot anything 
 that tries to kill you. But on top of that, everything from the graphics and the sound will try 
 to mess with your mind.
  
  My first impression on Doom 3, is that the graphics. are simply breathtaking. The backgrounds, characters 
 and even the small items look awesome. Shadows, lighting, effects and texture add a brand new feeling 
 when playing this FPS, and this is key element in DOOM 3. Trying to figure out whats what, and 
 where to go, or simply figuring out where the enemies are, will drive you insane.
  
  The sound is excellent too, from the music, the sound effects and just the background noises adds 
 a little touch of fear factor into DOOM 3.
  
  The control is straightforward, reload, walking, running and aiming the mouse, much like any FPS. 
 Overall, what do i think about DOOM 3? well, tell you the truth, its a great game. It gave somewhat 
 of a Nostalgic feeling from the original DOOM. Enemies from the first DOOM come back, the weapons 
 aswell, like the pistol, shotgun, chainsaw and ofcourse the BIG FU**ing GUN ( AKA the BFG) Playing 
 this game in the dark for the time, is risky and pretty scary, considering ive played many horror 
 survival games, but after a while, youll get used to the scare and fear of this game. The problem 
 i had with this game was using the flashlight. Unlike the other FPS where the flashlight can stay 
 on as you shoot, youll have to switch from flashlight to weapon, even during a serious fight in 
 the dark, and that can be really hard. Doom 3 was great, a scary game to make you jump outta your 
 seat. If you like FPS and The DOOM series.. DOOM 3 is the choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  I suppose during the time graphics were a big thing.
  
  Good thing: Doom 3 has absolutely beautiful graphics. It's that good that it's comparable to current 
 gen games and even better unfornately than games today. You can see detail from the tiniest ammo 
 shell to bullet holes in the wall. Blood is also a great factor and boy is the game good on that 
 Character faces look great .
  
  Bad thing: The graphics are great but cheap scares don't get to you much anymore later in the game. 
 Basically in the beginning you get a little shaken up by the surprise attacks and monsters outta 
 nowhere but once you get past a couple levels as the story fleshes out it seems to be just some 
 silly demonic invasion with and unorganized attack plan.
  
  Good thing: Sound is incredible and very effective way to scare. Yes the sound is great pistols 
 sound great shotguns do too. Your zombies groans and your demons cackle and your imps scream.
 
  
  Good thing: Some of the levels were cleverly designed to fit with the atmosphere and story. It's 
 not just go to this room and go to room 3. You got all these vital functions to a Mars Utopia. 
 The levels have a feel to them.
  
  Good thing: The game does a good job on introducing you to monsters. Some of the monsters are very 
 creative. Though some of the monsters are missing in the later levels (zombies) .
  
  Bad Thing: Your loaded with a great aresenal of weapons but other than that theres no compelling 
 reason to use them all. The machinegun is obsolete when you get chaingun ammo. The pistol is basically 
 useless after a couple levels. I don't need a rocket launcher when I have a BFG.
  
  Bad thing: The storytelling was god awful and took me a long time to understand it a bit. It is 
 told through small in-game cutscenes of video cameras and air ducts? I'll explain the best I can:
 
  
  Your supposed to be part of a squad sent to check up on UAC science facility. You are part of the 
 UAC security force. Alot of crazy stuff has been going on. Ghosts voices in the wall you know the 
 rest. There's a Governor Swann sent to meet the head scientist Dr. Betruger. Hell comes over blah 
 blah. But the weird thing is it seems Swann and Betruger knew hell was coming over before it did. 
 They seemed to calm about it. (There's nothing calm about headless zombies and blood and gore everywhere) . 
 In the end Betruger is said to be some pyscho mad scientist who wants to destroy everyone for no 
 reason by using his demonic horde of minions.
  
  Bad thing: The game is madly dark. You can't appreciate graphics when you can't see everything. 
 The blood and gore get's in way of some of the puzzles you have to solve...
  
  Overall Doom 3 is just a shoot em up with good graphics and there's nothing wrong with that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmeney
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Pros -
  Looks good. Environment is realistic (I imagine) . Some interactive computer screens. Good fun looking 
 out of windows.
  
  Cons - Linear and boring.
  Very frustrating.
  Gameplay is based around clearing a room then doing a quicksave.
  Cannot hold your light and 
 a gun at the same time (what designer thought this was going to be a good idea?)
  Shotgun has a cone of fire like an open umbrella.
  Cannot change weapon during reload animation.
 
  Bad guys spend hours and hours hiding in cupboards, just waiting for you to walk past so they 
 can smack you on the back of the head (followed by a quick load to walk past the spot backwards)
 
  
  I got this for $1 on eBay, and it wasn't even worth that. Too frustrating to get any fun out of 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kabam87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a bullet-blasting, shotgun pumping FPS that keeps the feeling of the classic doom alive. 
 Full of dark corridors, zombie shoulders, and demonic imps, it has that run-and-gun feeling that 
 is familiar with the original games. The biggest improvment Doom 3 brings to the Doom franchise 
 are the graphics. On a good computer they can be simply stunning. The enemies in the game have 
 gotten a major face-lift and look more horrifying than ever. Though intimidating at first, you'll 
 enjoy the feeling of blowing away imps with the ever-favorite shotgun by your side. The biggest 
 drawback to the game is that in most places it is way too dark. You need to use a flashlight for 
 a majority of the game in order to see, and there aren't flashlights attached to any of the guns. 
 (I guess the idea of guns with lights on them is a new concept on mars ) . However, there are many 
 available mods on the internet that will attach a flashlight to your weapons, solving this little 
 problem. Overall, if you loved the original Doom games, this one will make you feel right at home. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorin_ro
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  Graphics, sound, gameplay-all perfect. Cool weapons, well designed monsters and a fantastic horror 
 atmosphere .This game is underappreciated i don't understand why a game like Halo has higher score 
 than this. Come on people be serious! Doom 3 is quite an unique experience u don't find many games 
 like this one. And the story in Doom 3 is good those people who say Doom 3 doesn't have a story 
 are either stupid or don't know too much about this game. And it doesn't matter why the sentries 
 are so tough or why there's no flashlight attached on weapons these are stupid questions cause 
 the game is just so good and has the most electrifying and intense atmosphere in any PC game ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rajh20
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  the release of doom 3 is create more 1st persion shooter in the gaming world. the activision proof 
 it that they are the best in making frist persion shooter games.
  
  when i start play i feel the sound effectives. the graphics of the game is more unblebable. when 
 i play i feel that i am realy in side of the game. the story of doom3 is best. when i start the 
 game i was played in night and the middle of the game i did not play in night. becouse the game 
 is most fear.
  
  i wish that to relese doom4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is so thrilling I can barely play it. I have never played a game that has given me this 
 level of thrill. The graphics and lighting are probably the best I have ever seen. The fact that 
 almost every single room in this game is nearly pitch black is awesome. I like the idea that it 
 was not necessarily zombies that attacked you but people who were possessed. This game also had 
 some well made demons. The story seems pretty typical for that type of situation, except these 
 people were possessed and not diseased like on zombie movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MutilatedBunny
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an amazing graphical game. Turn out the lights and play it at night, you will crap all 
 over yourself from fear. The game is amazingly fun for quite some time and has quite a few different 
 weapons, although the best weapon in the game The BFG 9000 is rarely able to be used, and when 
 you do get the chance, its pretty much over before you know it. If you are looking for a good rental, 
 or a single player game, this is it. It really shouldn't take you more than 7 hours to beat if 
 your a skilled gamer, and have played a FPS like this before. Multiplayer is basically worthless, 
 and really think it was put in there simply to take up space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandmon
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a game that took Fat Zombies with Wrenches to the next Level. It is a game that was as 
 we all expected it to be. A Graphical Blood Fest.
  Although it didn't get new Innovations, Doom 3 did a great job on blending the Killing and the 
 Story. Every thing in this game is a big step forward from Doom 2. Great sound of the guns and 
 the scream of the Demons, the Graphics are just amazing and Blood everywhere.
  
  But the only 2 Disappointing things I found in this game are the Kills and the Final Boss.
  
 
  The only thing wrong about the kills are 2 points
  1) They don't get gibbed by explosives like in Doom 2 till Wolfenstein
  2) They disappear right 
 after you kill them.
  
  I understand that a Pile of 20 zombies ain't good, but at least limit the number of Corpses killed 
 : (
  
  The problem for the Boss on the other hand was that it was too easy to be called the 'Final Boos 
 of a Doom game'. Although still challenging, the challenge the Boss gives you isn't that much like 
 Previous id game bosses.
  
  Overall Doom 3 is a great Frag Fest which every id fan will love and enjoy.
  now if only I could 
 Gib the **** out of the zombies : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan2929
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 Is Going To Deliver The Best Science-Fiction Game Ever.
  The Difficulty Is Extremely Hard, The A. I Is As Smart As Einstein.
  Ive Spent More Then 100 Hours 
 Playing This Terrific Game.
  The Controls Will Take You At Least 2-4 Hours To Find Out How To Do Stuff.
  The Gameplay Is Superhandedly 
 Awesome!
  The Graphics Are Supremely Good Except For One Lousy Level.
  The Soundtrack Sticks With The Game.... Thats Good.
  The Value Is Definitely Worth IT.
  All 
 Together This Is Another F. E. A. R Combined Which Makes This Game
  King Of The Castle
  Hope You Liked My Doom 3 Review
  There Is A Lot More Coming..... Hopefully 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake14159
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is ok. Yes it does get a little repetative that in every level you have to find someones 
 PDA and open a locked door. But the Story is good. Although the next Doom with have to be something 
 other than your the lone survivor on a demon invested mars base. Graphics are the best out there 
 for a non next gen system. I can only imagine the graphics and sound of Doom if played on Vista 
 or an Xbox 360. Sound is another thing this game has on it's side. Again repetative you are going 
 to die whispers in every level but if you play doom in the dark it really scares the crap out of 
 you. All this about the enemies being repetative is a bunch of bull. Every game has it's type of 
 enemies. try facing a Hellknight whitle a cacodemon vomits fireballs at you and 3000 trites chew 
 your face off. The last thing that ticks me off about some of these reviews is You can't have a 
 flashlight and a gun out at the same time this is a very simple thing to answer. Every thing but 
 the pistol REQUIRES TWO HANDS TO USE. so unless your game allows for you to have 3 hands, there 
 will be no flashlight/shotgun combo in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keithburgun
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I was a HUGE fan of Doom 1 and 2, I played the single player and multiplayer like hell, because 
 it was a good balanced game with great weapons that each had individuality. The Combat Shotgun 
 was more powerful from close up than the regular one, but the regular was better from a range. 
 The BFG had so many tricks to it, the rocket launcher was powerful but needed much different skills 
 to use from the shotgun... Doom was also about fighting mass hordes of enemies. Well anyway, ID 
 was more concerned with tech and screenshot power than game design, so they didnt put ANY thought 
 into the weapons (Some of the guns are like the exact same as one another) and they sacrificed 
 the fast-paced gameplay so that they could exhibit one high-poly monster at a time. The game is 
 completely devoid as well of the awesome humor and semi-cartoony style of Doom.
  
  To put it frankly this game is NOT doom. This is just some lame-ass crawling first person shooter. 
 Terrible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasp94
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a great sequel to the original game. In Doom 3 you get a lot more of the story line then 
 in any of the previous game, which is great because it basically fills in all the story line gaps 
 from back in the 90's.
  The graphics in this game are excellent, the levels are very detailed and there is a lot of interaction 
 with objects in the maps. The game sound is also top notch, if you have surround sound make sure 
 you crank it up so that you can hear anything creeping up on you from behind.
  Doom 3 is also designed to scare you. When you least expect it, something will jump out of in between 
 stairs, run past a window or down a hall. Most of the time these things don't actually hurt you, 
 but they definitely make you jump back in your computer chair for a second.
  If you haven't played it yet, download the demo now! I guarantee that you will be headed to Wal-Mart 
 for the full game later tonight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McAleece
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  I Wish I Had The Time To Rant On About The Political Arguments That Came With The Whole Radeon 
 VS GE-Force Thing When This Game Was Being Released. But This Is About Gameing, Not Corprate Slander 
 &amp; Deals.
  
  The Most Importand And Fun Part Of Both Doom &amp; Doom 2 (expantions &amp; wads) Was The Co-op. 
 There Really Wasn't Any Other Game That Allowed That @ That Time. Loading Up The Old 14.4 External 
 MODEM. Yelling To Everyone To Stay Off The Phone Then Beating The Game Episode By Episode On Nightmare 
 Co-oP. Now Comes Doom 3.
  Graphicaly, It Was An Excellent Game. In Single Player Mode The Game WAS Creepy. &amp; Thats What 
 IDs Team Wanted.
  
  But Thats Not What The Fans Wanted. (some of them, mainly me. im being selfish) Im Going To Say 
 What Ive Always Said Before. Ohhhhssss And AAAWWWSsss Will Take A Game So Far. But Your Going To 
 Get Tired Of It Sooner Or Later. (that goes for everyone) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhiannon-e
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is one of those games that is good to let off some steam. Trouble at work? Let's imagine 
 that the yet another demon that appeared in one of those nice and flashy pentagrams on the floor 
 is your boss :)
  But seriously, the atmosphere in the game is amazing. The ambient sounds, voices, occasional screams 
 and heartbeats in the walls are quite unnerving, especially when played past midnight in a dark 
 solitary room.
  The major downside of Doom 3 is that the action is pretty repetitive and after about 5 levels of 
 pretty much the same demons invariably springing up from behind you - it gets uninteresting. The 
 game is straight forward, meaning, one can&amp;#8217; t stray from the path that&amp;#8217; ll lead 
 you to the next target since all of the doors miraculously break. There are no side stories (which 
 would be very un-doom-like, I gather, but would add a nice touch to the game :) ) .
  The storyline was very remotely reminiscent of Stargate, with the ancient tablets, corridors covered 
 in writing and the artifacts abandoned by some long extinct civilization - all for Homo sapiens 
 to find.
  Starting off on the Martian base of UAC corporation, the player is sent on a mission to find out 
 what&amp;#8217; s going on at the lower levels (scientist went missing?) of the base where all Hell 
 breaks loose (quite literally) . During gameplay one can find PDAs of recently deceased co-workers 
 and read their private mail as well as audio logs. The latter become more and more disturbing as 
 the game progresses revealing the reason for Hellish creatures taking over the UAC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -R4zi3l-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  My friend got this game and we stayed up till three in the morning playing this and going wild. 
 The graphics enginne is just crazy the shadows are very real and things get crazy fast. at first 
 its just some weakling zombies commin outta hell than BOOM some giant abomination comes outta no 
 where
  ahhhhhhhhh, holy god ........ i dont understand im manlier than this why em i scared? i shout at 
 the top of my lungs... hehe
  Than we got stuck and could not find out how to crouch yeah that took a while, but than we got 
 it and we were on are way to victory again
  
  your gonna have a fun time playing this, i sware on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nzilla
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 may be the scariest game of all time. Seriously, Im a grown man and this game scared the 
 bejezus out of me. Sounds coming from the darkness, nervously stepping into the next room and checking 
 around corners knowing that something was waiting to tear you limb from limb but not knowing where 
 it was going to come from. Oh, and perhaps the scariest thing in the whole game was no music. I 
 never realized how comforting that music was until it was gone and I was alone in the darkness 
 with the demons.
  On the surface this game looks like your standard FPS, but underneath it is survival horror, as 
 you desperately have to switch from your flashlight to your shotgun and hope that youll hit what 
 was right there a second ago.
  The darkness and lighting really add to the games atmosphere, but I have to be honest, by the 
 end of the game Im wondering dont they have any duct tape on Mars?? Youd think Mr. Survival 
 Marine could tape his flashlight to the end of one of his guns. Cmon! And who pays the electric 
 bills on this crate anyway? It cannot be a safe working environment if its this dark all the time. 
 One of the best levels in the entire game was Hell. At least Satan appears to pay his electric 
 bill regularly.
  Another thing. Where is everyone? Why is it that none of these other peons can seem to survive 
 for more than a minute? Your best friend in the whole game, other than your BFG, is these little 
 robots who, on a personal note, I would like to marry. Seriously. I love them. Not only do they 
 have an infinite machine gun, but they have a constant flash light and apparently chew through 
 demons like nobodys business. Who was the cheapskate who only paid for a handful of these things? 
 I would want the whole base swarming with those beautiful machines.
  Dont get me wrong, this game is still beautiful and horrifying and you must absolutely own it. 
 Just make sure youre not wearing your good pants. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link5863
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 1:28 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Great
  -Pros-
  The characters look realistic, the environment looks realistic, the monsters look like something 
 from a horror movie and will absolutely wow you.
  -Cons-
  It's WAY too dark and it ends up hiding most to all of the good details in each level. If your 
 monitor has darkness issues there will be times where you swear to god you can't see the nose in 
 front of your face.
  
  Sound: Great
  -Pros-
  The sound of the game is more of an enemy than the actual monsters in the game. The moans and creeks 
 and ghosts whispering in your ear is enough to get you shaking in your shoes!
  -Cons-
  The same sounds that make the game good get repetitive after a while and soon you'll be using them 
 as cues for when you know one monster or the other has shown up and you'll react accordingly. The 
 weapons sound very underpowered which if you think of it might have been a tactic by the developers 
 to make you feel helpless since you feel like your shooting a pea shooter at the neighborhood bully. 
 The only weapons that sound appropriate are the Chaingun, Plasma Gun and BFG. All other weapons 
 are muffled.
  
  Story: Ok
  -Pros-
  It tells the story through in game cut scenes and worker pda's you find scattered throughout the 
 game. The cut scense are great and when you find a character in the game and he starts talking 
 to you it does a good job of letting you know what's going on around you. *SPOILER, skip to next 
 section if you don't want to know the story* Anyway, the basic story is that your a Marine assigned 
 to the UAC facility on Mars. Hell breaks loose in a teleporter accident soon after your arrival. 
 You fight your way through the hell spawn in the facility following your commanding officers commands. 
 You find out that Petruger is responsible for what happened and that your commander is actually 
 working for the hell spawn and is probably dead and your hearing a ghost voice or something. You 
 go to shut down the portal, but are sucked into hell by Petruger. You find an alien artifact that 
 was made by the last beings to have to deal with them and escape from hell. You learn that Petruger 
 sent out a distress signal and is going to bring hell to earth using the ship that Earth sends. 
 You find Swan and his Body Guard but they fail to stop Petruger and you have to close the portal 
 to hell in the excavation site. You fight the cyber demon and use the alien artifact to beat it 
 and shut the portal to hell closed. A team arrives soon after from earth and they pick you up. 
 Not exactly the most thrilling story but it's better than what was in original doom at least.
 
  -Cons-
  Nobody wants to read this amount of text in an action shooter horror game. You just finished fighting 
 through a room of imps and possessed marines, you pick up a pda and then you have to sit there 
 and read it in order to know what's going on and to get locker codes. That's almost like watching 
 Friday the 13th and then the teenage girl tells Jason to hold up a minute cause her buddy is text 
 messaging her! I've done co-op with this game and it's just as boring looking at the person reading 
 the pda as it is for you to read it.
  
  Controls: Good
  -Pros-
  Just as good as any other good shooter.
  -Cons-
  None really.
  
  Gameplay: HORRIBLE!
 
  -pros-
  .... you shoot stuff and light platforming elements.
  -cons-
  It NEVER changes. The gameplay is the same in the first level as it is in the last level. It's 
 one big 9-10 hour grind doing the same shooting action over and over and over again. The only thing 
 the game does to try and keep it fresh is by introducing scary moments in the way of ghosts, new 
 monster cut scenes, instances where you have to temporarily manage machinery in order to open the 
 path and moments of paranoia (look in the restroom window after hell is released) . Getting new 
 weapons doesn't count cause they do that in every fps. Your stuck in closely confined dark hallways 
 and at no time do you ever drive a vehicle, go outside for extended periods of time, really talk 
 to anyone besides the few survivors that probably die the second you leave them alone in a room, 
 or anything of the like. You'd also think that if your in this base with a bunch of other marines 
 you'd be able to team up with them during the coarse of the game but that never happens. If you 
 took this game and gave it the exact same graphics from original Doom and everyone played it, they'd 
 all know how bad this game really is instead of believing all the hype. Just because it has a lot 
 of graphics and it's scary doesn't make it a good game people!! Go play Quake 4, that's a better 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeof-persia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Story- 8.5/10
  Doom 3's storyline absolutely great... betrayals, revelations, determination of a unnamed hero (which 
 is supposed to be the person that plays it, but the guys is white, so it doesn't shine out for 
 the other ethnic groups, but anyways.) But there is some flaws in it. Every squad is wiped out, 
 and is having extreme trouble with the demons, and you are mowing them down like ARNOLD. And the 
 sentry robots do the same, so why the situation has has fallen out of hand? Well... that makes the 
 journey even fuller of blood and action.
  
  Realism- 8/10
  Considering the time it takes place (2145) , weapons like the BFG 9000 and the plasma rifle are 
 plausible. But why the hero does doesn't become a zombie. He, Councilor Swann, and Swann's body 
 guard aren't affected by it. (I am not going to tell everything in the story to spoiler it, am 
 I?)
  
  Controls- 9/10
  The controls for Doom 3 are excellent. They use the traditional WASD key settings, and they put 
 the Soul cube in the Q key separates it when you are in the heat of action. Enemies- 7/10
  The enemies look good, but the weakness here is the A. I. They just rush you so there is little 
 challenge in that. Also, they tend to spawn behind you, so it gets very repetitive, but in the 
 can be very fun.
  
  Weaponry- 8/10
  Incredible done... the looks, the 'feel' are great. But why there are there chainsaws on Mars? It 
 is useless unless you use it against zombies. And the best weapon is the soul cube, and you must 
 kill five enemies to use it. And that is a pain in the ass when you are fighting the final boss 
 (no comments on who it is) . And for some reason, UAC personal suffer from 'I have no duct tape 
 to tape my flash light on weapons'.
  
  Multiplayer- 8/10
  Well down, same good stuff on single player, but there is no coop (unless get a mod, or play on 
 the Xbox version) , and no CTF! No CTF on a FPS! And there are the same indoor grey levels.
  
  Levels- 6/10
  
  The level are alright, but it is the same for most of the game until the 
 latter levels in which that it changes to caves and ruins from the industrial buildings that makes 
 up the other levels.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Probably the best part of the game is the graphics. The lighting, the shading, the weaponry, everything 
 is realistic and beautiful. However, the graphics do seems a bit like plastic.
  
  Sound 7/10
  Doom has a good sound production in it. Distinctive howls, teleports, shots, voices 
 are all great. No body really sounds the same . However, the music selection and how much the music 
 is on could be better
  
  Overall Score- 8.5/10
  This game is a must get. The game seems like a tech demo at first, but if you get down to it, this 
 re-imagining of the great FPS of the earlier 90s is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stomachworm
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Nail-biting Terror artfully and skillfully done. When I invested a small fortune on putting together 
 a high-end PC I was stoked on the game that gave me an experience that was well worth the time 
 and investment. The graphics are superb, the atmosphere is scary as hell... pardon the pun, the 
 sound its top notch, I love the fact that you had to hold your flashlight while searching through 
 dark hallways... it made it that much more terrifying. Great feelings of glee when you blow away 
 monsters. The ending seems a little anticlimatic but I found myself replaying a few times from 
 the beginning just to go through the fun of it all again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostchessy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  ever since the significant event of doom 1, everyone knew that id was an amazing game maker. then 
 2004 they realese doom 3
  
  for the first time in a while you see actual darkness (and its soloution) in an atmoshpere where 
 you want it light. even when your armed to the teeth with BFG's Shotguns and what ever else you 
 find, your still alone, and not sure of what from the depths of hell leaps out at you for what 
 was a wall and now a secret little hole for them to hide in.
  
  so whats new? well for starters theres alot of the old cast of baddies waiting to take your limbs 
 clean off, such as the imps and the mancubus (if you dont know what they are there fat) and some 
 new cast as well like the zombie commandos (and thankfully not the no pants type) doom 3 is big, 
 and until you get betters weapons other than the pistol its fairly scarey but after the gun load 
 got, its a gun hoh game and the charm is lost for being scarey
  
  unfortunatly, the game isnt as powerful in the terms of how much damage the guns do (in doom1 a 
 shotung will kill vast numbers of demons but now your lucky to get a kill with it)
  
  an exellent game PLAY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m2b999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This game worth to play, to wait, to watch, and to seek for it end. Even there are almost 25 level 
 to finish the game, it's a complex of different difficulty with different style and designs for 
 the game with total different ways of horror. I just finish the game 15 minutes ago with playing 
 it for almost two years not continuously and I want to buy the expansion of it ( Resurrection of 
 Evil ) . I highly recommend it to the people who want to play long sacred excited game. If you love 
 to play first person shooting mode like Halo, this game will be it. Have fun with the cheat codes 
 and hints that will make the game more easier than before. Just be determine to play it and you'll 
 love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a hugely awaited title by id software. The game is set in the future on a research facility 
 on Mars.
  
  The story goes like this: The year is 2145; you are a Marine sent to the UAC (Union Aerospace Corporation) 
 research center on Mars to investigate some bizarre events. The routine missions turns into a fight 
 for life, as all hell breaks loose when the gates to hell are opened and demons invade the Mars 
 facility. While trying to save your life, you also learn about the kind of research that is being 
 carried out in the UAC.
  
  Gamers have complained throughout that the game lacks any depth in story. That is not true. Id 
 software hired a science fiction writer Matthew Costello to write the script for the game, so the 
 story is not an afterthought as so many people say it is.
  
  The cut scenes, the scattered PDAs and the audio logs contained within them carry a lot of information 
 and listening to them helps in understanding the game better. You also get to know the history 
 behind the events that took place in UAC, which give you a fair idea of how things started to go 
 wrong from the beginning.
  
  Doom 3 is a survival horror game; you will be making your way through the huge research facility 
 fighting demons and other creatures from hell. The premise is not very original in FPS games, but 
 the atmosphere makes the game very compelling.
  
  Graphics in Doom 3 are excellent. The game uses a proprietary engine and delivers fantastic visuals. 
 Character animation is very lifelike; the level of details on the characters is very high which 
 makes them look realistic. The lighting is excellent, and successfully creates an eerie environment.
 
  
  Audio is among the very best in videogames. The game uses ambient sounds to make the levels scarier; 
 demonic voices, and low groans of the zombies add to the eeriness. Combined with the graphics, 
 the audio does a great job in creating a very immersive experience.
  
  The level design suits the gameplay, but it can be repetitive. This may not bother many gamers, 
 but someone playing a Doom game for the first time might be worn-out. The level design could have 
 used some work in terms of variety.
  
  The weapons are the classics found in old id software games; you start the game with a pistol, 
 and soon acquire heavier weapons like machine gun, plasma gun, chain gun etc. along with other 
 melee weapons. All the weapons work well and it is a lot of fun to use them.
  
  The problem though is that you cannot the flashlight and the weapons simultaneously. This decision 
 was widely criticized as being a needless way to increase the difficulty. However, plenty of mods 
 can found to found to overcome this issue.
  
  Doom 3 is a classic. The game is undoubtedly a masterpiece that every shooter fan should play, 
 however, for some it might not be as groundbreaking, because it depends on the preconceived notion 
 of what a great FPS should be.
  
  Personally, I enjoyed the game in spite of some of the shortcomings. The PC now has a game that 
 can rival some of the popular survival horror games on the console.
  
  + Excellent graphics
  + Immersive audio 
  + Engrossing gameplay
  + Cinematic horror experience 
 
  - Not enough variety in levels
  - No flashlight with weapons
  
  Verdict  Great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgj
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 28, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  Remember doom for PC/SNES/Sega CD. Yes that's right! The game that all brought us where no game 
 has before to hell! And it also introduced a genre of games, First person shooters. While Doom 
 3 dosen't deliever what Ultimate Doom did it's a instant classic. Gameplay - Doom 3 is basic your 
 on Union aerospace corp and there creating the most advanced technology ever invented. While creating 
 this techology all hell breaks loose and you have to stop it before it reaches earth! It's a Fist 
 person shooter experience unlike any other with the greatest lighting effects in video game history 
 and most interesting redesign of Doom yet. It brings a very basic gameplay thats easy-to-use and 
 fun to play and scary at the same time. Graphics - 10.0 No question even to this day the only graphics 
 that can match Doom 3 is Gears of War and it still dosen't look as good in-doors! The way the lighting 
 goes off on the enemys are stunning! Sound - Sound really makes this game scary more then anything. 
 You just aren't going to get that experience you would with low volume. Buy some headphones and 
 crank up the 5.1 system! Value 10.0. Really a game that must be experienced on the PC at resolutions 
 cranked up to 1600x1200 with Ultra on and a high performance sound system, and you'll enjoy this 
 game to the max. Quite a adventure better then most make it out to be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUNEwon
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 22, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  (date October 12th 2004)
  If your still looking for a reason why you just spent four hundred or more dollars on a new video 
 card than look no further. Doom 3 has finally arrived after years of hype and promise. Could any 
 game possibly hold up to the expectations of Doom 3? Well, yes and no. But before we get into to 
 the review you will need to go through this survival check list before playing. Item number one, 
 you really should play this game with headphones. Surround sound is great and all, but if you want 
 to really feel the panic of survival, headphones are the way to go. Secondly, you will need to 
 be in the dark to play this game. Its a dark and gloomy game anyway you might as well be in the 
 dark yourself. And of course, last but not least you will need a turkey sandwich on potato bread 
 with lettuce, tomato, mayo, mustard, and a cold caffeinated beverage. Now that everything is in 
 order its time to go to hell.
  From the first time the intro plays out, you will undoubtedly be flooded with Doom memories of 
 old. PCs Doom and Doom 2, Sony Playstations Doom, and even Nintendos attempt with Doom 64. But 
 this time around something is different. This time we have an actual storyline with interesting 
 details littered with interactivity panels along with of course the panic of demonic possession. 
 And I do mean panic, I havent ever feared for the cleanliness of my shorts like I do playing Doom 
 3. This game is overdosed with cheap scares, incredibly dark corners, and an ungodly scary soundtrack 
 filled with EVPs and just all around creepy bad things. Twenty five cent Wednesdays at the corner 
 laundry mat takes on a whole new meaning. Oh, and did I mention the graphics?
  This here ladies and gentleman is the hands down best looking game I have ever blessed my video 
 card with. Incredible displays of light and shadows, stunning detailed textures and realistic character 
 animation. When you look at this game through the eyes of a code writer, or a 3d modeler you will 
 be dazed at its perfection. But like most times in life, beauty isnt always accompanied by brains. 
 And here ends the oooos and ahhhs section of this review. After a few short hours of playing, 
 I started to become less aware of its beauty and more aware of its flaws. First off, this game 
 is way too dark. Im mean come on, Im trying to gaze at all this polygonal bliss and all you give 
 me is one small ray of sunshine from a half ass flashlight I cant even hold while I shoot? I understand 
 were trying to create a realistic atmosphere. But if I wanted to be creeped out and blind, Ill 
 go explore my crawl space at midnight with a book of matches. One thing I feel ruins allot of games, 
 is the pointless errand running needed to open that dammed locked door eight levels back. Doom 
 3 has allot of that. It felt like I was always running back to the beginning, just to grab some 
 DVD that was over due at Blockbuster. It really made the feeling of progress drag on. I was also 
 disappointed in the lack of guns. This is super Doom 3 right? Then where is the variety in weapons? 
 And dont show me how cool the robot spiders are without granting me the ability to control one. 
 Bottom line is this, Doom 3 is the best looking and scariest game I have played to date. But the 
 game play feels old and out dated. It does give nice a glance, at what the next generation of games 
 will look like. And like with all new advances in graphic technology, it takes a while for great 
 graphics to become great games. But on that note, if you really want a great experience in a first 
 person shooter, play Half Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BewilderedRonin
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Many bashed Doom 3 for not meeting some kind of weird expectation. I don't know what some people 
 expected, but Doom 3 delivers on what would reasonable expect from it.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Let's face it, there's not going to be much innovation in this game. There is some, and I'll get 
 to that, but for the core element of the game as a corridor shooter with zombies and demons that 
 pop out of the dark is there and is very well done. The controls are crisp and smooth, the guns 
 are fun and have a good deal of variety, and the overall experience feels very comfortable.
  
  That AI is okay, but not groundbreaking, but what would expect from zombies? Each and every 
 foe has a weak point or a specific tactic that wil make defeating them much easier. For example, 
 if you keep trying to rush the imps and blow them away, you'll get your ass handed to you. You 
 need to lure them to throw a fireball, rush in blaast them with a shotgun and then quickly back 
 away. Ah, just like old times. And thankfully many of the baddies from the olden days make a reprisal 
 on the new engine.
  
  Speaking of the new engine...
  
  Graphics:
  
  This game looks incredibly great. The textures are well done and rich, the modeling is very smooth, 
 and the levels are incredibly intricate. The Doom 3 engine delivers a feast for the eyes and provides 
 a very rich experience. The machinery located throughout the levels are very well done and it gives 
 the levels a very authentic appeal. You will often find yourself shrouded in darkness, for which 
 you have a flashlight. Unfortunately, you cannot use your flashlight and gun at the same time. 
 (though there are mods to correct this) Many people complained about this, but the reasoning is 
 to add atmosphere.
  
  The thing that I actually enjoyed the most, and thought was pretty groundbreaking (definitely something 
 that many other FPSes should emulate) was the ability to use panels in-game. When you come up to 
 a panel you don't just press the use key and then run on. You actually have to look at the panel. 
 When you do, your crosshair turns into a little finger pointer thing whereupon you click the apropriate 
 button. Another neat feature of Doom 3 is the PDA. You download content from terminals and other 
 people's PDAs and such which gives you various amounts of information. Some of it is pointless 
 fluff, such as a firearms instructional video and a videeo about water purification on Mars. There 
 are also audio logs to listen to and e-mails to read. The later 2 often contain useful information, 
 such as codes for locked storage lockers, and infromation that helps flesh out and further the 
 plot.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is very done. The gunshots and various weapon sounds are intense and really add to the 
 visceral feel of the combat. The bleeps and bloops of the various consoles you interact with as 
 well as thePDA sounds are spot on and really help add to the fun of using these little interactive 
 devices in the game. The sound recording for the audio logs is also surprisingly diverse. There 
 are a few instances where you can tell that a few voices are from the same actor, but the voice 
 acting tends to do a very good job mixing up voice pitches and accents to try and help hide this 
 fact.
  
  The enviromental sounds are where Doom 3's audio really starts to shine. From the demonic laughter 
 to the sounds of warning sirens, the ambient effects keep you on your toes. Occassionally you'll 
 hear a disembodied voice taunting you. The audio is also very crisp and sometimes, just when you 
 thought you were alone, the shriek of a fireball weilding imp will make you jump out of your seat.
 
  
  Value:
  
  A fun game that provides a lot. The value depends on how much you like to replay games. The multiplayer 
 game modes are generic and nothing to write home about. It is obviously the single player experience 
 that shines in this game. I've owned this game for some time now, and I still play it every now 
 and then.
  
  Wrap Up:
  
  Incredibly fun and generic game. It's a corridor shooter, as what one would reasonably expect from 
 Doom 3. The nice touches of the PDAs and the interactive panels make for a more immersive touch 
 that truly adds a lot to the game. Considerinf that this game is pretty old as of me writing this, 
 this is definitely a game to pick out of the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Doom
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 3, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Well personally this game is very good. The whole story is very exciting and original, really the 
 gameplay is quite fluid and full of Surprises. If your a fan of the original games then you will 
 LOVE this game. And if you like this game then you'll love the Resurection of Evil Expansion pack! 
 If you like Horror movies and First Person Shooters (FPS) then you'll love Ultimate Doom through 
 to Reserection of Evil (RoE) ! This game has really bought the series its due. Also the game itself 
 has afew humorous places or parts, one of which including a secret Stone that has the ID symbol 
 in the last area ultimatly leading into a room with a Skull that looks alot like the Icon of Sin 
 (Last Boss in Doom 2) that has a PDA that holds Emails from all of the ID crew! Another of these 
 places is in the Tablet room after killing a Hell Knight on one of the tablets oh wait I wont ruin 
 it for you, lets just say if you have played Ultimate Doom then you'll see somthing Familiar on 
 one of the Tablets. So if your into Macraber Humor, Horror, The Movie and/or FPS then you'll absolutley 
 love Doom 3 and the Expansion pack RoE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 8:25 pm PT
Review:  id Software became more an engine developer than a game maker in the last years. And, we must say, 
 they're really doing a nice job. Right now, Doom 3 is almost three years old, and still is one 
 of the best FPS out there. Not only because the nostalgia present in this game, but also because 
 of its wonderful graphics engine. The years didn't make Doom 3 obsolete enough to become an aged 
 athlete, like what happens to most games released two or three years ago.
  
  The game, set in Mars, lets the player to control a nameless soldier who works in the Union Aerospace 
 Corporation (UAC) . The marine was assigned to work in this research facility on Mars, but a bad-executed 
 experiment opened the portals that link the planet with hell. Waves of demonic forces attacked 
 the facility and you -the soldier- is one of the few survivors. You are to make your own way and 
 battle against the hordes of spawns, finding what went wrong and prevent the evil from spreading.
 
  
  It's true that the story isn't too much innovative, but it works well to set the player in Doom's 
 universe. In many ways, Doom 3 is very similar with the previews versions, Doom (1993) and Doom 
 II: Hell on Earth (1994) , when talking about monsters and gameplay. You'll face some well-known 
 spawns like imps, zombies, revenants... OK, I'll stop here; no spoilers. About gameplay, it's improved, 
 obvious, to play with mouse and keyboard. But it isn't very different from the classic Doom, as 
 you just need to aim and fire against your opponents without thinking too much. I mean, you'll 
 feel how old-school Doom 3 is. Sometimes, there're walls that holds a spawn, just waiting you to 
 go forward; suddenly the wall is knocked down and you'll be attacked from behind. Also, just like 
 in the original Doom, there're moments which several demons are teleported, one after each other, 
 until the area is clear. These features and many others make Doom 3 a genuine remake to the classic.
 
  
  Sound isn't superb, but it does a good job. You'll hear screams, footsteps, unknown noises etc., 
 which combined with the excellent graphics you'll have a creepy atmosphere in this game. The problem 
 in that most of the weapons doesn't sound quite right. The Rocket Launcher and the Plasma Gun, 
 for example, sound tinny and even shy, considering the destructive effect these toys have. Also 
 you won't have music in Doom 3, but this was obviously intentional, as the silence will make a 
 sinister noise in your mind. A good addition was the control panels found throughout the UAC facility 
 and your PDA. You can interact with interfaces, allowing the player to point-and-click in some 
 buttons like in real life. Also the PDA contains a lot of fun stuff, such as videos and e-mails 
 that you'll encounter while exploring some rooms. The videos explain some aspects in the UAC complex 
 or how to use certain weapons. The e-mails have some information about the people that works in 
 the facility. Some of this stuff really helps, as you'll eventually find a password to open a locker 
 or a door. Normally this information isn't crucial, but at rare cases you'll need to read or listen 
 to an audio log to open a door and then go forward in your objective.
  
  The nameless soldier will fight alone the entire game. At a few occasions you'll find a survivor, 
 but he'll simply talk a thing or two, and let you to continue your path by yourself. If you like 
 team-oriented games, surely Doom 3 isn't your choice. The game also has some really annoying and 
 odd things: what a marine from the UAC is doing in Mars fighting against demons, using a weak and 
 endless flashlight? Why there isn't a machine gun or helmet with a lantern? And the worse: why 
 the skillful soldier can't hold both pistol and flashlight at the same time?! Another noticeable 
 problem is the multiplayer. Internet games can be a pain because of the lags. Also, Doom 3 doesn't 
 come with cooperative mode, and the deathmatch is simply too basic, nothing new. Plus we can't 
 forget that there're only a few maps for multiplayer, and this lower the replay value in Doom 3 
 a bit. My advice: forget the on-line mode in this game, or download a good mod to add maps and 
 game modes.
  
  Personally, I can forgive the flawed multiplayer support just because the great single player campaign. 
 It isn't very difficult to finish; it will take about 15 hours to do it. Also it's possible to 
 replay the game in the 'Nightmare' level, which adds a great challenge. You can only play at this 
 difficult if you first finish Doom 3 in a regular difficult level. Even with the uninspired multiplayer, 
 Doom 3 still is one of the top titles in the First-Person Shooter genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  HOLY S@%T.... expect to say that a lot when playing Doom 3.
  
  Doom 3's sheer level of atmosphere is unmatched in any game by far. Demonic voices and machinery 
 in the background coupled with what is by far the most insanely advanced graphics engine create 
 a world so immersive and terrifying that words can barely describe. When you can create an entire 
 level with absolutely nothing to shoot but you STILL got the crowd shivering in their skin with 
 itchy trigger fingers, then you got 'em by the balls. What more can I say? Expect a good 25 to 
 30 hours from beginning to end.
  
  Doom 3 does need a little bit more variety in its earlier level design and gameplay. Things start 
 getting a tad bit monotonous in the first quarter. That is until you go to hell. Then things start 
 picking up. Monotony slowly starts building up in the latter quarter as well. The replay value 
 is also a bit itchy. The game is a straight line romp, but it's definitely the kind of game that 
 eventually creeps back into your fanny and once in a while you get a small urge to pop the disc 
 and blow through it again. Overall, the game is pretty darn enjoyable. People need to quit whining 
 OMG!!!!11 Teh falshlight cant b stuk on da gun wtf!!!!111 . Yea, that would make sense, but where's 
 the dread? Grow some nuts for cryin' out loud. The game's here to scare you out of your skin. Don't 
 complain.
  
  Well worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neothelid
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 17, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The mother of all games. The one that started it all. The quintessential first-person shooter. 
 One of these titles actually belongs to another game and another is up for discussion, but none 
 of them actually does the first incarnation of the DOOM series justice. Veteran gamers remember 
 it fondly as a reminiscence of the days when a 60-mhz 486 was the non plus ultra and a color monitor 
 was still a rarity. Such an accomplished pedigree created humongous expectations about the third 
 installment on the series; while it is true that it did not live up to them, being outshined in 
 many aspects by Valves Half-Life 2, DOOM 3 actually succeeded in creating an atmosphere so surreally 
 terrifying that some (including this reviewer) consider it a game not playable in any other way 
 than with the speakers set to full volume and not a single lamp lit on the computer room.
  
  The creative minds at Id Software decided to go for a pure old-school shooter rather than sticking 
 to modern-era features; as a result, the character can carry every weapon in the game at once, 
 can jump only a limited height which is a coherent trait, actually, and not one abused by level 
 designers and is furnished with a flashlight to illuminate dark corners and passageways. IR goggles, 
 light amplification systems and motion detectors  forget niceties such as these. (It seems the 
 UAC did not see it fit to supply its security guards with adequate visionics.) Even the weapons 
 themselves are a throwback to 1995, as they lack things such as laser sights, magnification scopes 
 or flashlights; the game packs a universal zoom that can be used to snipe at your foes, but it 
 is a feature you will rarely use, if ever, since your enemies are wickedly accurate even at long 
 distances and its quite difficult to surprise them. Other than that and a tendency to go for 
 a the bigger, the better approach, your guns behave as you expect them to: for example, the 
 pistol packs a reasonable punch and is very accurate, while the rocket launcher is perhaps the 
 last word in any fight. You will find yourself using the shotgun a lot, however, since it can blast 
 a big enough hole in almost anything that gets sufficiently close, and the AI is prone to sending 
 enemies your way rather than capitalizing on the strength of their long-range attacks  even in 
 the case of ranged combat specialists. However, some of these quirks actually do help to enhance 
 the gaming experience. DOOM 3 shines its best on frantic and desperate close-quarters battles; 
 the monster cast is readily abundant in melee nightmares such as the ubiquitous imp, the dreaded 
 pinky demon, the disturbing cherub and the terrible vagary, and being surrounded and confounded 
 by two of them at a time equals to invite a quick and painful demise. False walls and ventilation 
 shafts too narrow for you to crawl on are veritable fountains of pain, if a bit clich&eacute; d; 
 level design is abundant on these, as well as on monsters who teleport without advice. (A more 
 creative mindset wouldnt have hurt.) Playing the game for the very first time on the hard difficulty 
 setting can play a bit rough on your paranoia, but not enough to equal, say, AvP2s terror of blindly 
 running through mazes of chitin-covered corridors with the motion detector screaming danger. To 
 achieve such an experience would have required DOOM 3 to pack an option to disable game saving, 
 a feature it unfortunately lacks.
  
  If anything can be said about DOOM 3, that is the amazing quality of its graphics. So amazing are 
 these, in fact, that sometimes you will wish you were able to take a closer look at some of the 
 monsters. They all are rendered and animated with frightening detail; the not so lowly imp looks 
 suitably alien and menacing, the hell knight is an imposing monstrosity, the mancubus is a pale 
 flabby blob of flesh and the baby-faced cherub is the picture if a grim one of defiled innocence. 
 Lighting is equally great, and amazingly realistic in cases such as an imp fighting a scout drone. 
 A similarly outstanding work has been done with the locales through which you will run your errands 
 to stop the hordes of hell from overrunning Mars; poorly lit corridors splattered with blood and 
 entrails, research labs bristling with experimental devices and old, dust-choked underground ruins 
 are only a few of these, and all are superbly done. Some scripted events are comparable to a tale 
 of Stephen Kings: you will be walking through an innocently-looking corridor a given moment, only 
 to find yourself on the next looking at the same corridor as through a fuzzy TV screen on tones 
 of orange and red, while the walls are splashed with blood and fiercely glowing sigils and your 
 ears are filled with maddening yells and insane whispers. It is because of such sequences that 
 DOOM 3 is a masterpiece in regards to the sound department. Actually, it should be said that it 
 is almost its greatest accomplishment and the key to creating an environment more compelling and 
 dread-inspiring than Valves blockbuster. The sound and buzzing of electrical and mechanical machinery 
 are all lifelike, and you will jump off your chair more than once from an unexpected metallic clang, 
 even if it is not followed by the beastly screech of an imp. And if you dread the hiss of an imp, 
 then your Martian existence will be a continuous freak-out episode, because the growls and shrieks 
 of your infernal opponents are terribly real.
  
  Finally, to round up everything, the phrase that jumps to your mind after playing DOOM 3 is Resident 
 Evil!: as much as an old-school first-person shooter, DOOM 3 strives to be a survival horror game, 
 and almost hits the mark. While it succeeds on the former, a more modern approach regarding level 
 and weapon design would have made it a smashing hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonziter1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  What can I say? Any game that makes me want to turn off the lights in the WHOLE house and get down 
 and dirty with it is an A in my book. The game play is spectacular. The graphics are near perfect. 
 Sound is wonderful especially if you are using surround 5.1 or higher. The controls are a bit touchy 
 but this is easily compensated for. All in all its well worth the wait. Many of my friends have 
 played this and loved it. I've played it on older systems and now my newer system that is capable 
 of handling it better. Still, its got some playback value where not a lot of FPS games do. I would 
 recommend this game to any FPS lover, especially one who has a bit of a higher end system and can 
 appreciate all of the detail on the higher settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wergfwefwef
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a first person shooter based in the future and takes place on mars. It is set to be a 
 scary intense game, and definitly is with the new graphics engine, and great lighting and sound 
 effects. Doom 3 is basically just like the originals when it comes to weapons and enemies. You 
 still have the standard weapons such as the shotgun, pistol, machine gun and such. Also the other 
 signature weapons are back such as the plasma gun, chaingun, and BFG 9000. But, there is a flashlight 
 you must use to navigate yourself around, which can only be held alone without a gun at the same 
 time. This may sound stupid, but actually makes the experience much more scary. Also, enemies such 
 as the imp, zombies, zombie marines, hell knight, cyberdemon are also still here. Doom 3 is just 
 about all new graphics and gameplay, bringing orignal Doom to present day first person shooters. 
 The single player campaign is looooong, I think it took around 25-30 hours. There isnt much of 
 a sophisticated storyline, but you will be occupied and aware of what your doing instead of just 
 shooting everything. The online is fun, its all out fast paced deathmatch which is always easy 
 to get a hang of and provides good fun. Only thing I might say is that there should be more than 
 a maximum amount of people they provide, but gamers have already made mods which allow more than 
 the maximum. In conclusion Doom 3 is an outstanding game and thriller and FPS fans should enjoy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mzaher
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is one of the best FPS games until now. when it first came out on the PC, it had excellent 
 graphics, even better than PS3 or 360 graphics right now. the game is not easy to play, which is 
 good as you need brains to finish it. it is also long and no matter how much you finish it, you 
 can still play it again. the characters in the game are extremely scary ! yes they are ! playing 
 it alone with the lights off is not recommended. lots of beneficial cheats for when you finish 
 the game, you can activate God Mode and just shoot the sweat out of those scary creatures. very 
 very very recommended, on PC only. not Xbox or PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geminidevine
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks! ID needs to bring Doom 4 out in a hurry lol. Not many PC in the beggining could 
 handle this game. Not with dual cores out on the market, you can really put this game to the test. 
 There aren't that many games out right now that will talk full advantage of the PC outside this 
 game and Fear. But wait until Crysis comes out. Doom 3 is very dark and it's to be played with 
 the lights out!!!! Enjoy Doom 3 and all of it's glory on a powerful computer with all of it's settings 
 turned up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbinoGoose
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is very fun and looks amazing. I love this game its one of my top 10 games. But its way to 
 short like you can beat it in like 5 hours. Ok the storie takes place i beleve 2 years before Doom 
 so just know that and the storie is created by a proffesional sc-fi writer so its got to be a good 
 storie. The graphics are amazing and the game has dynamic lighting so it looks good and real. The 
 creature diign is very good especialy the hell knite. The weapons are cool they include a shot 
 gun, pistol, sub machine gun, a gatling gun, and a artifact that uses deamon souls for ammo the 
 soul cube. The multi player is your basic id game play so its like Quake wich is good. But the scares 
 in this game are way to stupid and cheesey well shure every now and then like once or twice in 
 the game you would get freaked or creaped out. So Doom 3 is very fun and NOT scary so dont be afraid 
 buy it, its fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ark123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  The first impression I got from Doom 3 is that it is just a boring remake of the original Doom 
 with the same weapons, enemies and prettier graphics. Very beautiful graphics, in fact. However, 
 when i got a bit further into the game, i realized it was far from the truth, because Doom 3 features 
 solid, intense old-school gameplay.
  
  The game take place in a huge research facility on Mars, infested with creatures from hell. You 
 play as a marine sent to investigate the cause of the problem, and terminate it, and like in the 
 previous titles, in order to accomplish your mission you will be shooting anything that stands 
 between you and your goal. Doom 3 features the same weapons from the previous games, with small 
 additions, but dont let that upset you : the battles are fast paced and intense, and overall there 
 are few boring moments in the game. The level design is mostly good, although there are too many 
 levels with laboratories and offices in them - it gets rather repetitive after you reach the 27th 
 lab, and then realize that the next level is an office level number 32. Moreover, the designers 
 thought that making roughly 25% of the game pitch black, where u can't see your own nose without 
 using the flashlight, will make the game any scarier - and were wrong. Switching to flashlight 
 every 2 minutes doest add creepy sub-tone to the plot nor does it improve the gameplay, and in 
 case you were wondering : no, you can not attach the flashlight to a gun. You can genetically engineer 
 mutants in those laboratories, but using duct tape on the flash light is outta your league.
  
  Bottomline : Doom 3 features good, fluid and intense old school action, but the overall quality 
 of the game is lowered by repetitive level design and too much scary wannabe dark corridors. Worth 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  If you are wanting to get a scare forget the movies. THIS will show you what scary really means. 
 Every movie I have seen can't compare to this game in scariness and disturbiness. The demons actually 
 look like Demons from Hell and they are beautifully shown by the graphics engine. Honestly, you 
 have to have some sort of mental problem to play this cause no normal human being would have the 
 guts to. Okay a bit exaggerated but still. The sounds in it are scary as well!!! if you play this 
 long enough you will be traumatised. If you have seen Doom the movie and hated it , then you will 
 love this. Doom the movie is an insult to this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZakMasta101
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Horrifying yet beautiful. Fully submerges you in the environment. Scared the crap out of me when 
 I first played it. And on a side note it has put 17 people in a mental hospital. 17 people. Much 
 like AVP, everything always goes wrong. A ten minute trip can take hours. The lights go out, the 
 door malfunctions, you need a keycard, etc. This game has an impressive array of weaponry that 
 gives the game a fun playability. The game suffers from a lacking storyline, however. But its nonstop 
 action makes up for it. Your basic objectives are get from point A to point B for various reasons, 
 find someone, send a distress signal, etc, but there are plenty of demonic creatures in your way. 
 For most of the game you will be jumping back after you turn every corner, but within the last 
 few parts of the game you become immune to it, get used to it. The monsters keep getting bigger 
 and bigger, but so do your guns. If you are looking for a simple shoot em up game with extraordinary 
 graphics and lots of guns, go for it, but if you are looking for a game with a long, compelling 
 storyline, and engaging characters, you might want to look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathread
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Sci-Fi first person shooter mix Satan; my kind of game! This game is classic, nothing much to do, 
 but going forward and killing all that can be killed. Simplicity is sometimes perfection. Graphics 
 are outstanding, if graphics were different game would't be that good, sound is great and environment 
 is real horror by sudden attack from the dark deep or behind doors. Game play is typical FPS game 
 play and storyline is little bit shallow but it does't mean a sh.. ! If you did't play this go 
 to your local game shop and get it, it won't cost you much and if you doubt in this what I wrote 
 rent it, this you must try, it does't matter if you played Doom before or not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  This is one of the games that stresses me up every moment. One of the best horror action games 
 in history. The Resident Evil series doesn't come close. Half-life 2 may top this in production 
 value and overall gameplay, but I find Doom 3 provides better entertainment in the way your senses 
 respond to the game.
  
  Doom 3 is a top-notch FPS shooter with a widely interesting array of weapons at your disposal. 
 The levels are well designed and the pace is perfect without any dull moments. While you explore 
 the intimidating and foreboding space structures, the stunning visuals are complimented with state-of-the-art 
 in-game lighting effects that puts you in a hyper-real visual treat together with a very competitive 
 Havoc physics system. What awes me also is the extremely powerful sound design that features realistic 
 binaural effects and even surround sound. Not only does the environment effects sound good, the 
 soundtrack and demonic chants are ominously remarkable as well.
  
  The combined achievement of the audio-visual indulgence served to heighten up my gaming experience 
 to a level no other game can achieve yet. The result is a record-breaking leap from Final Doom.
 
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Somini
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in Doom 3 are among the best ever seen in a PC game, but that doesn't make it a good 
 game. Beautiful graphics are always nice and something that I want in games, but you have to be 
 able to back up those graphics with things like intriguing story, great gameplay, good soundtrack 
 etc.
  
  The story in Doom 3 is so generic that it's painful. A 3 year old has imagination enough to come 
 up with a better story, I assure you. Everything is just an excuse to put you in situations where 
 you will kill monsters. The guys at id software could at least have made an effort, but many dev's 
 seem to think they don't need a good story in a FPS and it's just sad. They seem to think that 
 any situation in a game that puts you out of the action is bad. I couldn't agree less.
  
  So what about gameplay, did they get that right? No, there's only two gameplay elements at all 
 in Doom 3. The first one is shooting enemies and the other one is using your flash-light. Just 
 shooting stuff for a while can be really fun, but in this case it's not very satisfying. Most weapons 
 aren't cool enough and many enemies are boring (not all, though) . The flash-light in Doom 3 is 
 supposed to elevate the suspension, but in my case, it only irritated me. You can't hold a weapon 
 and the flash-light at the same time and most areas in the game are really dark, which means that 
 you'll have to switch berween your weapon and your flash-light all the time and that's just bad 
 gameplay.
  
  For me, Doom 3 never really does anything else than show what kind of graphics my PC is capable 
 of displaying and in that case, Doom 3 is really satisfying, but when it comes to the things that 
 really matter for me in a game, it disappoints me in almost every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegas_6
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was without a doubt, one of the most hyped and talked about game since Half-Life 1. After 
 Doom 3 was released there was alot of criticism surrounding this game often referred to many people 
 as a let down. I'm not going to go into too much detail with this review as there are well over 
 700 reviews on this website so I'll keep it short and simple.
  
  Some people love classic old-school shooters like these where you just pretty much kill anything 
 that moves with a dull storyline. Others don't. I personally enjoy first person shooters such as 
 these but I felt the storyline was way to weak and dull for my taste. On the other hand, there 
 are a few things in this game that makes it definetely worthy of a good rating. I felt some of 
 the pros in this included the amazing and realistic graphics, the sound in this game, I can hardly 
 put to words. The screeches and roars of the monsters are truly terrifying along with the dark 
 and dead silence of zombies sneaking up behind you all will make you feel a little insecure at 
 times. This game takes place in an extremely dark setting throughout the entire game. Simply put, 
 you will never be safe. There will always be monsters around throwing you around, sucking your 
 blood, shooting at you, smacking you, etc. This is the genuine feeling sci-fi shooter fans dream 
 of. Doom 3 will put you on the edge of your seat throughout the entire game but don't be suprised 
 if you suddenly feel turned off by some of the same repetitive, daunting tasks. My advice; take 
 a day or two break and you'll be craving for Doom again. It's just that type of a game. The story 
 tends to drag on for awhile where for one moment you think the game is about to end and it just 
 keeps going to the point where it's just sort of annoying and more of a job to beat the game then 
 for the pure joy of killing ugly space creatures.
  
  All in all, I had quite a blast playing this game but my advice is if you want to have the most 
 enjoyable time with this game is, do not try to beat this game all in one sitting. It will get 
 boring and repetitive. If you take frequent breaks and play for a reasonable amount of time, this 
 is one game you won't have regret purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunnyHath
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Doom 3, in a word? Spooky. Since 1993, fans of the original thriller have been awaiting a reinvented 
 experience into one of gaming historys all time legends. That day is upon us. Doom 3 brings us 
 back into the threshold of hell itself. The player gets viscerally entangled in a psychotically 
 episodic journey into hell and back. Prepare to be immersed in your own worst nightmare.
  
  You play Sarge a space marine hired to be security on a Martian space colony. In the beginning, 
 Doom 3 starts out surprisingly similar to another gaming giant, Half-Life. The player begins his 
 journey by meeting the people of his latest military assignment, a city on the surface of Mars. 
 The city is a research facility, developing new technology based on Mars elements found commonly 
 on the red surface. The science team is head up by a man named Betruger. From the start the voice 
 acting is incredibly believable, this high caliber of talent completely lends credibility to the 
 environment, which makes what is to shortly visit itself upon you all the more frightening. Interesting, 
 and important to note: Doom 3 only works on Windows 2000 and Windows XP. Linux Binaries and Mac 
 Compatibility are to be released shortly, but as of this review the only viable platform is a Windows 
 2000 or XP PC.
  
  Doom 3 really begins when your commanding officer assigns you to locate and bring back a missing 
 scientist. Seems he was working in another sector, where there have been several reports of strange 
 goings on and the workers are not happy at all to have to be working there. Rumor has it the workers 
 have been having psychotic episodes all too often lately, and the corporation is offering free 
 counseling to all workers. At some point you are given a PDA (Personal Digital Assistant) , which 
 is your means to record useful data, either from Video Discs or other personnels PDAs. id integrated 
 it flawlessly and it not only doesnt hinder game play, it enhances it by adding all sorts of voice 
 acting through the personal logs of other characters in the game; making the environment even more 
 immersive. Naturally, you have to follow orders without question, and so the journey begins. You 
 are given a pistol and a few bullets from a rack, and told to be on your way. Personally I did 
 not feel very safe walking into a dark passageway with nothing but a pistol, which made things 
 ever scarier. I should take a moment to mention Doom 3 is extremely dark and scary, moving through 
 hardly lit hallways with your pistol is unnerving, you know something will jump out at you sometime, 
 I mean this is Doom. Upon locating the missing scientist, you immediately know something is wrong, 
 he is all jumpy and frightened like a rat being chased by a mountain lion. He doesnt get a chance 
 to explain the weird happenings before all hell breaks lose, literally. The screen goes black then 
 red then weird fiery symbols start appearing, flames shoot up the opposite wall, the monitors in 
 front of the scientist start displaying zombies (at least they arent muttering brain....) . A 
 fiery demon from hell possesses the scientist, turning him into a zombie which subsequently attacks 
 you! Youre forced you to kill him. All over the monitors your fellow marines are being slaughtered 
 by the hellish things arising out of nowhere, and your pistol does not make you feel very safe.
 
  
  Graphically, Doom 3 is on par with any PC game to date, including the coveted Far Cry. In fact 
 I would go so far as to say the player models are superior in Doom 3, where Far Crys players 
 seem to have shiny skin, Doom tends to make them more lifelike, including animations. Doom 3 
 requires one hell (get it?) of a system to run it at maximum graphical settings, so much so in 
 fact that none exist yet that Doom 3 will auto-detect as its highest allowable settings. For Doom 
 3 to auto-detect as Ultra High one of the factors is a 512 MB video card, which doesnt exist 
 aside from some high end CAD hardware. The test system for this review is my Athlon XP 3200+ with 
 1GB Corsair XMS memory and an ATI Radeon 9800 Pro All-In-Wonder. The game is set to 1024x768x32bpp 
 on default (medium) settings with all goodies turned on except for Anti Aliasing. It ran exceptionally 
 well, the demo1 timedemo scored me 45 fps (quite smooth even during fast high intensity action) . 
 I should mention that although the test system could be classed as high-end, it also ran acceptably 
 well on an Athlon XP 2000+ with 256 MB of RAM and a GeForce FX5200 on medium-low settings @ 800x600. 
 Thus making Doom 3 quite scalable as far as systems it will play on. This means you dont have 
 to rush out and buy a $700 video card to play it, yay!
  
  The environments, while very detailed and high quality, lead me to one of my only complaints about 
 Doom 3. Its so dark most of the time, you cant tell its pretty. In Doom 3, you live through your 
 flashlight; it is your beacon of life in a world gone to hell.
  
  The sound in Doom 3 is as scary as the rest of it. The faint whispers you thought you heard, the 
 plaintive cries for help from a person that doesnt exist, the over heres whispered by an unseen 
 entity; all add to the terrifying experience that is Doom 3. I wont say that I was scared stiff 
 playing this game, but the further you progress the scarier it gets. The audio lends to the mood 
 in a non over-the-top way, making you feel like you are really in the game. The level of immersion 
 is very top notch, I cant remember being this immersed in an environment since the likes of Resident 
 Evil, Metal Gear, Half-Life and Far Cry. The game also supports 5.1 Surround, but while testing 
 the game I used headphones, and it does not detract from the frightening depth the audio adds to 
 the game. Truthfully, late at night with the lights off, Id be afraid to use 5.1 Surround.
  
  The old school action based game play of Doom 3 creates a highly re-playable experience to 
 fans of the genre. Story based games like RPGs tend to be like watching a movie, which in itself 
 is great but tends to make playing the game again like watching a movie you already know every 
 word of. Doom 3s action style gaming centers on the psychological thrills that hold you (and scare 
 you out of) your seat while you explore the bowels of hell. Big guns, lots of critters to shoot 
 at, and lifelike environments, make for a great balance of first time chills and subsequent kill-fests 
 as you rush through like Rambo killing Imps left and right (and behind, they tend to surprise you) . 
 In conclusion, while not being Game of the Century; Doom 3 definitely is one of those games every 
 serious gamer should own. Its worth the $69 to own a classic, plus Futureshop. ca is giving away 
 a limited amount of bonus Gifts with your purchase that includes some pewter figurines and a poster 
 and things. Doom 3 is loaded with thrills and chills, and literally made me jump in fear more than 
 once during the time I played. The dark moody environments will keep you on edge, and the fast 
 action will keep you coming back for more Imp destroying mayhem. As the Note of Caution that 
 ships with the game says: For those who dare to face Doom 3 as it was intended; lock your door, 
 turn off the lights, and turn up your sound. Enjoy Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  I love a good shooter. Half Life is still my favorite game of all time. I have been a big fan of 
 id since the origingal Doom came out back in 93. Now 11 years later, we finally get the third game 
 in the series. Doom 3 is one of the best looking games I have ever played. Its better looking than 
 Painkiller, and Far Cry. The graphics have to be seen to be believed. The shadows and lighting 
 are top notch, and causes almost no slowdown. The gameplay is what you might expect from id. You 
 have a weapon and you kill anything that moves. It is simple, and classic. There is only the simple 
 keys you need. Movement, jump, crouch, and fire. Thats all you really need in this game. The weapons 
 are the standard (so far at least, I am only about half way through the game) . Now comes the good 
 part. The SOUND!!! This game will have you shaking in your boots. You will know that things have 
 gone bad the second you hear the low pitch rumble that will make your walls shake. You will hear 
 whispers, groans, screams, moaning, and they will have you doing a double take. The only complaint 
 I have with the game is the AI of the bad guys. Once they see you they just run after you. Only 
 the soldiers will hide behind things. You can spot an enemy, he or it will start to chase you, 
 and you can just run to an open door and wait on one side to introduce him to your shotgun. All 
 in all, Doom3 is one of the best looking and fun games I have played all year. Just make sure when 
 you play it, that you are in the dark, alone, and crank up the volume. It will make you jump on 
 more than one occasion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Great game filled with action , horror, and total fun . MUST GET THIS GAME . Another one of my 
 recommended games . Endless gameplay with spine tengling horror . Mind blowing monsters and creatures 
 all coming from the depths of hell . ONCE you start playing this totally awesome game you wont 
 want to stop playing it . You want GORE , you want blood , you want a good game , then why dont 
 you have this game in your computer geting your mind blown away from the amazing quality of the 
 gameplay yet .
  
  THIS IS A ANOTHER MUST BUT GAME ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SundarOct131088
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is basically Classic Doom with a huge graphical facelift. The game plays much like the older 
 games in that you run into a room, smoke the baddies and repeat. So if you're a diehard fan of 
 the classic games, chances are you'll like this game, although it's not as fast paced and attempts 
 to be scary.
  
  The game takes advantage of the engine's lighting effects to create atmospheric environments like 
 the dark corridors at the Mars facility and the fiery depths of hell. On my first run the game 
 managed to scare me here and there but the levels are repetitive and once I got used to the monster 
 patterns it never really scared me. And when I say scares I mean jump-out-of-your-seat kind of 
 scares where you open a door and a monster jumps right on your face all of a sudden, not the creepy 
 kind of scares in games like F. E. A. R.
  
  The single player mode is about average length and once you're done, you can try installing some 
 of the coolest mods and TCs out there or grab an editor and start building your own maps which 
 really adds a lot of replay value to the game. Then there's the multiplayer mode which offers basic 
 modes like deathmatch, team deathmatch and last man standing. There's also a mod out there that 
 lets you play coop. All in all Doom 3 is great in its own right, stop comparing it with present 
 day shooters. This is Doom, not Half Life. If you want to play Half Life or Halo, go play them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skulleton1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  The latest and the greatest from ID softwares extremely popular DOOM series. You are corporal Mathew 
 Kane, sent to a remote research facility on Mars, soon after your arrival, all Hell brakes loose 
 (literally) and you must destroy the gate to Hell and survive onslaughts of gruesome demons.
  Good gameplay, and physics engine, an interesting and immersive storyline keep you on edge, not 
 to mention countless mysteries.
  Overall, a great game but the multyplayer is nothing special and can become boring very quickly.
 
  
  If you liked the following games you might like DOOM 3:
  
  Quake series
  
  Half-Life
  
  Manhunt
  
  TimeSplitters
  
  Halo
  
  Unreal Tournement 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  /*Single Player Reviewer*/
  I think of doom3 as a boring game. It's got astonishing graphic and sound and such things and sometimes 
 it's really scares the hell out of you but there's no excite and nothing else in the story and 
 the everlasting dark environment makes it worst. I mean it makes it more boring. Weapon Designing 
 also really sucks. The whole graphics are really good but I think the design of weapons is really 
 annoying and grossy. During the game play I thought I was carrying a shovel or something raher 
 than a weapon. The only comfortable and acceptable weapon was the chainsaw. I do believe that Quake 
 4 game was so better in storyline, environment and weapon designing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madterps
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 isn't the be all, end all of FPS like some of the fan boys like to proclaim. Albeit Doom 
 might be legendary, Doom 3 falls way off of the elite games list like FEAR and Half Life 2. The 
 graphics in Doom 3 are truly beautiful but the graphics can't mask its fundamental flaws. Annoyances 
 are abundant in this game, like how the enemy just stands there and shoot or they come out of nowhere 
 to attack you. It's fresh for the first couple of hours then becomes a nuisance and really pisses 
 you off.
  
  Hit detection in this game is way off, just because the sight doesnt turn red doesnt mean that 
 youre not shooting at the enemy and actually hitting them. Take for example, an enemy zombie soldier 
 is crouched behind a box, you waste ammo shooting at its head only to have it pop up and shoot 
 back at you. Another example is when you zoom in and take shots at enemies from a far but somehow 
 dont hit them because the sight doesnt turn red. This is the biggest issue with Doom 3, since 
 it doesnt give you many ammo and youre wasting it on something that you cant hit for some reason.
 
  
  Another gripe with Doom 3 is the control, Id should've made a cover and shoot options since every 
 other FPS included one. It's really annoying knowing that the enemy is shooting at you and you 
 can't peer around the corner and return fire without exposing your entire body or crouching down 
 and taking unnecessary damage.
  
  Story wise, the game falls short of what it wants to achieve. There really isn't a main character 
 per say, as in other games like Quake 4, but it does gives you glimpse into characters around the 
 base. id should've just focused on the marine because frankly I don't give a damn about the average 
 Joe. I want to know the story about the marine and how come he got stuck there.
  
  As for sounds, the game is mostly just silence with a few monsters screaming here and there. Works 
 well with the Doom environment and really tips you off to the enemy that you're about to face.
 
  
  Overall, the game is okay but it has too many gameplay flaws to make the game truly great. The 
 graphics and the name recognition will definitely attract you but the game play will let you down. 
 If you want a great FPS game, look elsewhere for your fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koneko1991
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 isn't so bad after all.
  It has some great graphics, but that actually is it.
  Definitely have played better and scarier game than that, but graphics is excellent.
  #1. Really 
 great graphics, For 2004.
  
  When i played the Doom 3 the first time it wasn't so scary as everybody said infact it was just 
 a regular shooter.
  Yeah, yeah the darkness, monsters behind you and flashlight specially in one hand. I mean they 
 could done a lot better than that.
  And in Nightmare mode, Uuuuu, your life goes down to 25%, uuu, so hard (yea right)
  And the storyline, 
 there is no storyline.
  In spite of that all, I've beaten the game on every difficulty.
  
  P. s. But game is pretty playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  I was never hyped up about this game, i always thought the graphics engine was plastic looking 
 and the game looked boring. I read the reviews and as usual they were all great from 8's to 9's 
 and a few high 7's. I installed the game and got play and i was suprised at how great it was...
 
  
  The music at the menu screen and the whole art about it was perfect and the introduction with all 
 the marines screaming down your mic was perfect. However it does all die and never comes back which 
 is a shame and causes it to get a little repetitive. Also left me wondering why i'm surviving but 
 everyone else can't and how the Guard Robots can own everything but this place is still ebing beaten?
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It's really fun at first and reminds me of a perfect sci-fi move :) I remember one amazing part 
 when i'm traveling on a monorail to another section of the complex and it reminded me of total 
 recall/Half Life in black messa. It really brought alot of emotion for me for some reason.
  
  I was loving how scary it was aswel, even though it got predictable i was still crapping myself 
 lol. The atmosphere just really sets the gameplay to a whole other level.
  
  However the core gameplay it's self is just Doom with better graphics and in the end thats what 
 everyone wanted. I don't understand why people are complaining about it being too repetitive when 
 Doom was worse and didn't even have a story like this one.
  
  Multiplayer however was pure crap IMO, it was for a small amount of people and got boring faster 
 than listening to the wife nag on.
  
  Overall the gameplay is basic and it will get repetitive but it didn't spoil my enjotment of the 
 game too much.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The atmosphere is greta and the Art style matches everything perfect and it is my fave thing about 
 the game because it draws you into this action/horror sooo much. However there were a coupel points 
 that will bring the score down for me...
  
  - Plastic models
  - Textures all look plastic aswel
  - smoke of the shotgun looked weird
  
  Sound:
  
  It 
 was great aswel nice effects and everything and the music was perfect, some guns did sound a little 
 weird tho.
  
  Value:
  
  I'm sure you can pick it up for &pound;5 these days and it'll give you 10-20 hours of fun for the 
 single player. It took me twice as long as HL2 to complete.
  
  + If you get a bundle the expansion is even better with a gravity gun type of thing.
  
  Overall 
 the game is what i expected.... Doom with better graphics. It's fun but gets a little repetitive 
 and some of the graphics are questionable. However it's a pretty amazing game and feaures one of 
 the hardest end boss's in recent times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOCCERBALLS
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  ok well i have the game for the xbox, and i have to day that from the pc, is transfers very nicly. 
 the graphics are top notch and the enviments are nice and dark to creep the crap out of you. although, 
 small, and repeptitive, the hole feel of the game brings you into the place and makes you turn 
 your head over a corner before you go to the next door or something. what im saying is that the 
 game really gets ya creeped, and when ya go to hell, holy DANM it looks AMAZING. you got demons 
 shooten at ya and all that blood all ova the place and its just soooo cooooool. people that like 
 scary games and lots of gun play in their FPS's will no be disapointed with this game at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was one of the best FPS games to play. I loved the setting and how scary it was. The zombies 
 the monsters everything about this game was cool. The lighting and the shadows were just amazing! 
 There were times were I had to pause the game and take a break were I was so scared. I loved this 
 game. The bosses were tough. Limited health packs which added to the toughness. The graphics in 
 this game were so amazing which added to the scariness. The only this that was disappointing about 
 this game was switching the flash light but I made it work the control setup. The guns were cool 
 the environments where awesome. The gameplay was out of this world. The sound added the creepiness 
 of this game. You would hear a monster from some area but you wouldnt see it which of course scared 
 me even more. The value of this game could go both ways how much you like Doom series or if you 
 just want a good scare. For me it was both I love horror games and Im a long time Doom fan. So 
 if you want a good scare or if youre just a long time Doom fan Doom 3 will put toughs itches 
 to rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Game play: Really exiting FPS, its fun when somebody is next to you and there is light outside 
 and inside. never ever play the game with no lights and nobody is home, you'll pee in your pants. 
 you start out a guy in Earth and a base on mars need help so you go there and try to stop opening 
 the gate of hell. those fat guy with chainsaw in the bathroom, MAN it freaky and you know what 
 is even more scary, go to a bathroom and look at the mirror and do nothing. a guy comes be hide 
 you and kills you...... when you fight with hell knights (the cover is the hell knight) run away 
 as far as possibles unless you have a shotgun with full reload ammo and full ammo on the shot gun. 
 try to shoot it on its head. i don't know why this game is not on the scary list, the monsters 
 are freaky, they creep me out! anyway enough with my comments but try to get shotgun because its 
 useful unless you don't want to get close to the creepy, freaky monster then you could choose plasma 
 gun, chaingun, or BFG. it has a good multiplayer, most of them are highly experienced and played 
 doom 3 alot. good way to be good in doom 3 is play a mission that is hard for you, play and play 
 over and over until the mission that is hard for you is so simple, you could play it in 3 minuts.
 
  
  Graphics: high def graphics for 2004. i love the image and the texture when blood spills. some 
 monsters are so realistic, it looks like it really lives on mars . i also like the effect id software 
 did to the bullet fire, its pretty damn good. the graphics could be improved but its good enough 
 to play it and get scared enough for you get the hell out of your room.
  
  Sound: high sound quality, well created for the right scene and for the right creature. its sound 
 realistic and it makes me freaked out ( i said like 10 time the word freaked but it is freaky) . 
 value: after you beat the campaign many times, you would play online with other people but first 
 you need to be real good at doom 3, otherwise you will get slaughtered by pros.
  
  Tilt: people who wants to get freaked out =p and a fan of fps, doom 3 is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebubbleprince
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best game i played in a first person shooter in so long! Must Buy! The weapons 
 in the game from the original Doom 1 and 2 haven't changed and the graphics are eye popping. Sound 
 is great (if you have a good sound card) . It may be a bit boring at the first 2 minutes at playing 
 but it is still a great game in my opinion. You do need a good machine to run Doom. However the 
 minimum amount of ram i would recommend is 256 MB of RAM available. And a minimum of 3.6 GHZ chip. 
 You can still get a good set of graphics with a Computer that is low end. And the physics of cans 
 being shot all over the room by explosions are great but not so realistic on cans flying at the 
 wall at 100 MPH. This is still a must buy game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tentpole
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 17, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was without a doubt, one of the most hyped and talked about game since Half-Life 1. After 
 Doom 3 was released there was alot of criticism surrounding this game often referred to many people 
 as a let down. I'm not going to go into too much detail with this review as there are well over 
 700 reviews on this website so I'll keep it short and simple.
  
  Some people love classic old-school shooters like these where you just pretty much kill anything 
 that moves with a dull storyline. Others don't. I personally enjoy first person shooters such as 
 these but I felt the storyline was way to weak and dull for my taste. On the other hand, there 
 are a few things in this game that makes it definetely worthy of a good rating. I felt some of 
 the pros in this included the amazing and realistic graphics, the sound in this game, I can hardly 
 put to words. The screeches and roars of the monsters are truly terrifying along with the dark 
 and dead silence of zombies sneaking up behind you all will make you feel a little insecure at 
 times. This game takes place in an extremely dark setting throughout the entire game. Simply put, 
 you will never be safe. There will always be monsters around throwing you around, sucking your 
 blood, shooting at you, smacking you, etc. This is the genuine feeling sci-fi shooter fans dream 
 of. Doom 3 will put you on the edge of your seat throughout the entire game but don't be suprised 
 if you suddenly feel turned off by some of the same repetitive, daunting tasks. My advice; take 
 a day or two break and you'll be craving for Doom again. It's just that type of a game. The story 
 tends to drag on for awhile where for one moment you think the game is about to end and it just 
 keeps going to the point where it's just sort of annoying and more of a job to beat the game then 
 for the pure joy of killing ugly space creatures.
  
  Pros:
  -Amazing, realistic graphics
  -Truly remarkable and groundbreaking sound
  -Scary setting that 
 keeps you on the edge of your seat every second of the game
  -Just plain fun
  
  Cons:
  -Slow and dull storyline
  -Too long, game seems to drag
  -Noticeable bugs and glitches
  
 
  All in all, I had quite a blast playing this game but my advice is if you want to have the most 
 enjoyable time with this game is, do not try to beat this game all in one sitting. It will get 
 boring and repetitive. If you take frequent breaks and play for a reasonable amount of time, this 
 is one game you won't have regret purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydenakasha
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  When i first started playing Doom 3, i expected something special, and that exactly what i got.
 
  
  1. Gameplay- The gameplay is ridiculously scary, so if your a chicken, stay away. After a couple 
 of levels, you begin to realise the basic flow of gameplay. It is moderately hard, and can get 
 slightly repetitively, but the level design makes sure that the player is never bored. The drawback 
 however, the multiplayer is quite poor, and i can never get good ping on servers. 8/10
  
  2. Graphics-Ahh yes, the world famous doom 3 engine. One word Outstanding . If your pc packs the 
 punch required to play on higher detail, then this game is visually stunning. 9/10
  
  3. Sound- Very good sound. The sound adds to the overall realism of the game by alot. Form the 
 groaning of the background, to the steady drip of blood, all the way to foot steps. There is only 
 one drawback, the guns sounds aren't as pleasing as i would have hoped. 9/10
  
  4. Value- Good game for its money- $20! 9/10
  
  Overall score- 8.7 --_ i recommend you buy 
 and play this game _-- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 returns with a killer new graphics engine and audio capabilities, but it seems like the 
 way the game played was completely forgotten while this awesome looking and sounding game was being 
 made. Doom 3 proves that awesome technology doesn't always equal an awesome game.
  
  The general gameplay is just pretty uninspired, as it pretty much plays exactly as the old-school 
 Doom games did. There's just one problem; gaming has evolved a lot since then and it seems Doom 
 3's gameplay just doesn't reflect the standard on games now.
  The story is the same old deal, you work on base on a different planet, then there's some evil 
 guy amidst the orginization that tries to make sure all hell breaks loose (quite literally as a 
 portal to Hell opens up) and soon enough you find the base infested with strange creatures that 
 need to die. The singleplayer is basic. Very basic. You run through corridors, you shoot things, 
 you pick up more weapons, you continue shooting things, occasionally you'll stumble upon a boss. 
 There is no real innovative draw to the actual gameplay such as Half-Life 2's gravity gun, or Halo's 
 awesome gameplay mechanics, the one thing that really holds this game up are the occasional battle 
 with quite a few baddies on screen and the fact that the game's atmosphere is erie and pretty much 
 the entire game is intense and scary, but you'll find that that's really not good enough to make 
 up for such basic gameplay.
  The multiplayer (though small) is quite fun, on the other hand. The maps are claustrophobic and 
 the gameplay is generally pretty slow-moving. But what makes it so awesome is it retains that erie, 
 creepy atmosphere and your enemies jumping out at you from nowher can actually end up giving you 
 a scare and coupled with the smallness of the maps, the multiplayer ends up being extremely intense 
 and scary while being the normal competitive deathmatch that you'd expect.
  
  The graphics are awesome, the Doom 3 engine is just amazing. The textures, models and enviornments 
 look amazing as does the lighting. The bump-mapping and normal-mapping of course look amazing. 
 There is just no real flaw in Doom 3's graphics at all.
  
  Doom 3 sounds great too. The sound is what ultimately gives this game a creepy atmosphere because 
 you can pretty much hear everything, creepy voice-overs, ambient enviornmental sound effects, weapon 
 noises and footsteps and it all sounds awesome. The music is pretty good too. Again, there's no 
 flaw in Doom 3's sound
  
  Doom 3's singleplayer campaign will last you a good 8-10 hours, but multiplayer will keep you coming 
 back for more and is actually quite addicting. On top of that there are plenty of user-created 
 addons to download to keep your Doom 3 experience a pretty long one.
  
  All in all, Doom 3 has flawless production values, but an uninspired and pretty short campaign. 
 But awesome and addicting multiplayer is very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomdelonge0686
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Like I said I waited 4 long years for this game to come out and its 3 years old and I still love 
 this game. Ive always loved doom, its orginal! you know? They always release a product that changes 
 something to the world of gaming! Good: This game was the biggest hype with half life2 and halo2 
 coming in 2004! For multiplayer Halo2 and half life 2 with having mods to support it beat doom 
 there. But Doom3 was a single player based game and this is why i loved it. Right now games are 
 lagging a good story to make u feel like ur in a movie feeling it. I remember reading alot of previews 
 how this game scared the living Sh! T out of ppl editors ! I remember installing and entering the 
 world of DOOM all over again!!! I couldnt believe how the cut scenes looked just like the gameplay. 
 I honestly feel this was the game to start the next gen. Along with half life these 2 really started 
 next gen gameplay. WIth real time lighting, rag dolls, physics,5.1 surround audio, Movies quality 
 graphics!!!!! Bad: I would have to agree with some the game was alittle too dark but i beg the 
 differ there. They made it out to be where u couldnt see anything which they are totally wrong. 
 This is what made the fear factor for the game u know? It made u think and get closer to the screen 
 while wondering if a demon would jump out of the dark corners. This game had nothing wrong with 
 it!!!!!! Gameplay: The gameplay changed how games were made for sci fi horror!! Like i said in 
 good comment with the ground breaking graphics, but the game did great with others than eye candy 
 graphics.. I love Id software they care what us gamers want and pay 50 bucks for. They knew it 
 would sell millions of copies. The game did a great job with AI for the enemies where they talk 
 and flank you! Story: Alot of people dont realize this game is a stand alone doom game, pretending 
 1 and 2 never happened. Instead of doom1 being on the moon and going to hell and then playing in 
 hell then going to earth to start Doom2. your on Mars, and its great how this story goes with the 
 DR behind everything. You start to go i cant wait to know more! Well, when the DR starts to talk 
 to u and explaining everything. It felt like a real invasion from hell would be like! With a few 
 survivors and evil everywhere! I know theyre gonna make doom4, they have a lot of holes in the 
 game to make it happen. Overall: This game was 4 years in development and wasnt lacked to just 
 sale its name. It was the first game to make me tired from the constand horror in it. It was the 
 first game to make me feel i was there with the realistic lighting! This is my all time favorite 
 game, it sticks with the orginals! With the chainsaw, plasma rifle, BFG and it was kinda the same 
 setup. If you re scared to try it out, thinking theyll ruin a classic they didnt! This game deserved 
 a 3 on it! It was so a DOOM game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgameboybobx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  this game is so freakin fun i scared the crap out of myself it's scary in the awesome way my gf 
 watches me play this and I gave her nightmares playing this so she and i have sex to put the images 
 out of her mind. But anyhow this game is freakin fun but the zombies annoy the crap out of you 
 after the first 15-20 minutes they'll just pop out of know where and just try to kill you but they're 
 easy to kill, well with a shot gun. I'm gonna see if i can find ressurection of evil on ebay anyway 
 thanks for reading my reveiw and i hope you enjoy this game too ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFBrat77
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  It took me long enough to play it, I suppose I was taken in by the somewhat dissapointed reviews 
 and the less-than-impressive demo. As a long-time DOOM fan (DOOM II remains my fav game of all-time) , 
 I did not want to play a game that would leave a stench as bad as Final DOOM did.
  
  I'm happy to say it didn't. Its quite obvious Id Software borrowed very heavily from the original 
 Half-Life, which in turn was heavily influenced by the early DOOM games. Since the original Half-Life 
 (and its sequel for that matter) is a Masterpiece, Id Software could have done much worse. The 
 creepy, dark Atmosphere is straight out of System Shock II, another classic game heavily influenced 
 by early DOOM games.
  
  The Graphics in DOOM III are state-of-the-art, as befits a John Carmack designed engine. Complaints 
 have been made by some users concerning how dark the game is. Of course its dark! DOOM games have 
 always been about fear, dread, flickering lights, and well, impending DOOM when walking through 
 a new corridor or area.
  
  Unfortunately, as well as the lighting contributes to the Atmosphere, the monster appearances could 
 have contributed much more to the feeling of dread when walking into a new room. After awhile, 
 their appearances become predictable, and after a short while it becomes increasingly easy to deal 
 with the countless imps that teleport in. The game becomes more interesting once you cross the 
 Monorail Skybridge, if only for the appearance of DOOM II heavies Revenant, Mancubus, and Arch-Vile. 
 Even so, these monsters somehow don't seem as menacing as they did in DOOM II, thus they don't 
 make the game as scary as it could have been. I have to agree with GS reviewer Greg K. in his assessment 
 that being able to save instantly also contributes to keeping the game from being truly terrifying. 
 What made DOOM II a brilliant game was how creative and diabolical the level design was, how menacing 
 and powerful the monsters were, and how satisfying your weapons sounded. Other than the Chainsaw, 
 DOOM III's weapons seemed surprisingly impotent. The Chainsaw was incredibly fun to use in any 
 event.
  
  The flashlight should have been able to be used in the left hand with the basic pistol in the right. 
 I don't agree with being able to use the flashlight with any other weapons. So, for the most part, 
 I agree with Id Software's decision, though the flashlight should have been available to you when 
 you use a pistol, instead of its own key-bind. I like the idea of the audio logs and e-mails, and 
 thankfully the voice-acting was very well-done. The story was slight, but I'm sure most aren't 
 expecting that from a DOOM game.
  
  Despite what some have said, DOOM 3 is clearly a DOOM game. Id moved in the right direction with 
 its idea on how to approach the game. Some of the ideas could have been improved (as explained 
 previously) to push the game to the heights of the first 2 DOOM games, but overall its a high quality 
 game. Its very enjoyable as a one-shot or for old-school deathmatching, and at $20 (American) I 
 would recommend it highly to FPS or DOOM fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  I've pretty much had this game since it came out... but is was almost a year later that I finaly 
 got a friggen computer that could run it. The graphics are amazing, even now three years later. 
 The game feels very smooth and dynamic, and that shotgun is just damn fun!! But it does have its 
 flaws, as with any other game. The guns sound like toys... no really... toys. An explosion makes 
 a silent little pop . ???? The physics could use a little work too. sometimes, stuff will just 
 randomly fly around, boucing off of walls. But you gotta love that shotgun.... :D
  
  With the releases of games like Prey and Quake 4 that use that same engine, Doom 3 still looks 
 the best out of the three. The graphics are something truely amazing to watch.
  
  SO GET IT!!! if you dont already have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude12121212
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a very good game. ignore all of those who give it a bad review.
  
  You all probably know all of the good points: the great visuals, the intensity of playing the game, 
 the weapons, and the large number of levels. There is a huge variety of guns in the game, and a 
 large arsenal of enemies will attack you.
  But now, I have read other reviews, and I must say I now have a negative opinion on the intelligence 
 of the critizers of Doom 3. Here are some of there stupid points.
  
  The lack of duck tape . Oh waah, its dark! This isn't a game I can beat without god mode! Anyway, 
 the darkness would make this game almost no challange. The enemies, many of whom can't attack from 
 very long distances, would run up to you in open light, and you would kill them (If you are any 
 good) before they can lay a shot on you. Games aren't about realism all of the time; they are about 
 fun, and the darkness would take away the intensity of the game. The darkness is a chief element 
 of the game. Get used to it.
  
  The fact that it isn't like other dooms: Who said it had to be like the other dooms? The company 
 made the game; they can label it however they like. They just happened to make a different game 
 with a similar story line. Instead of comparing a game to a predessor, criticize it for its actual 
 gameplay (I know, hard to believe) .
  
  More later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TandemSpoony
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  The system requirements for DOOM3 are pretty steep, and I know not everyone has the means to afford 
 a ninja computer to play the game at its full extra-crispy high-res ickiness, not to mention afford 
 the game's own heartbreaking $55 price tag. So I'll share with you the DOOM3 experience in its 
 entirety for the gamer on a budget. Simply pay an annoying sibling or co-worker $20 to have him 
 throw a burlap sack over your head so you can't see where he's coming from, and beat you without 
 mercy with a cinder block from varying angles. The important part is the burlap sack, really. If 
 you want to save your $20, just put the sack over your own head, spin around ten times fast, then 
 try walking around the house. Same experience.
  
  
  DOOM3 was one of those games I never seriously expected to see on a shelf, like Duke Nukem Forever 
 or Starcraft: Ghost. Games like that are usually stuck in a perpetual loop of delays and revisions 
 since developers want their game to be on the bleeding edge of the gaming technology. DOOM3 has 
 been highly-touted and very highly-reviewed since it was demoed at conventions, and I'm from the 
 old school of gaming that still remembers when the scream of GUTENTAG! from Hans the Nazi in Castle 
 Wolfenstein could drive a primal terror into the hearts of men. The old DOOM games jeopardized 
 our homework, and I remember the elaborate junior high school sneakernet underground where we'd 
 exchange pirated copies of the game along with the Barney Blaster mod like we were dealing for 
 black tar heroin. The old DOOM games were basically nonsensical splatterfests that put you on one 
 side of a giant room, the exit on the other, and about a hundred demon things in between. You vs. 
 The Horde, Joe vs. The Volcano, Ecks vs... lots of Severs. I guess.
  
  
  This... this is not DOOM. Ahhh and now I can already hear the fanboys furiously bashing away on 
 their keyboards, H0W K4n U N07 l1k3 D00M3? U 4r3 94Y. U 5uX0R 4nD 1 H0P3 K4rM4cK 5h0V32 4 8F9 uP 
 UR 94y 455. Well it doesn't really break my heart. See, if you LIKE the game, so much the better, 
 because you can spend your time playing it and thus, leaving me alone. DOOM3 is disappointing on 
 so many levels, it's hard to know where to start. The multiplayer experience is a joke, despite 
 being one of the most talked-about aspects of its gameplay. There's nothing new, nothing exciting, 
 nothing innovative in the least. It doesn't even have modes we've come to expect from multiplayer 
 shooters now. All it has are Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Tournament Deathmatch (essentially 
 one-on-one Deathmatching while other people wait in a queue and get bored) . It's just nothing you'll 
 actually seek out other people to play. Not when you've got infinitely superior offerings out there 
 CounterStrike, Unreal Tournament, Day of Defeat, Battlefield 1942, and about a dozen other games 
 that actually bothered to make their multiplayer interesting.
  
  
  But why do I say that it's not DOOM? Well that's simple. This game sucks. I'm actually willing 
 to bet you could have more fun with the aforementioned burlap sack beating than you could with 
 this game, because there you might have the chance to exact revenge on the person inflicting such 
 horrid pain on you. More specifically, DOOM3 is a survival horror game right down to its core, 
 almost the complete opposite of every gameplay facet of the previous DOOM games good. Instead of 
 relatively open areas with lots of enemies, this game is riddled with narrow, claustrophobic tunnels, 
 small rooms, and enemies that prefer to spawn behind you and sneak attack. It's more Resident Evil 
 than anything else, considering its obsession with horror elements and zombies marching about. 
 But I'm being rather unfair to the Resident Evil games, because at least in those games, you could 
 SEE.
  
  
  I'm told that DOOM3 is a beautiful game, with astounding graphics and eye-popping visuals. That's 
 probably true. When you can SEE it, which is NEVER. EVER. By far, DOOM3's biggest problem is the 
 absolute, choking, unbearable,  
 darkness. It's dark. Really dark . Pitch black dark. Dark dark dark. You simply can't understand 
 how vastly blackly dark it is . You could turn the lights off in your room -- that's dark. But it's 
 not THIS dark. You could stick your head up a cow's butt, and it probably still wouldn't be as 
 dark as this game. It'd probably stink less, though. The entire game is shrouded in inky black 
 darkness in order to reinforce the ooky scary horror aspect of it all. You can never see where 
 you're going. You can never see what's in front of you. And most irritatingly, you can never see 
 what in the blue HELL is hitting you.
  
  
  Oh, you're given a flashlight. I bet the developers thought they were really clever in giving you 
 that one pittance, because you'll basically have to carry that flashlight out all the damn time 
 just to see where you're going. Then you'll see a monster, fumble for your gun, and promptly find 
 yourself unable to see again. So you'll aim your gun roughly in the direction you think the monster's 
 at, guess, pray, and panic fire endlessly until you think it's dead. The entire game is a pointless 
 back-and-forth transition from flashlight to gun, because evidently in the year 2145, marines working 
 on a Martian base with notoriously bad light haven't been assigned weapons with lights on them. 
 Nor have they mastered the use of duct tape to affix a flashlight on the end of their weapons. 
 Or uh... just kind of hold the flashlight up against your weapon while firing it. But no, you're 
 either holding the flashlight or a weapon, routinely getting slapped around by everything you can't 
 see. And so you're stuck wandering around the entire game where the lighting is flickering, dim, 
 or nonexistent, getting wailed on by everyone hiding where you can't see them.
  
  
  You play as an anonymous, nameless idiot who lacks the power of speech and simply walks around 
 nodding at people . Or killing them. Your avatar is big and fleshy with dark hair, with large biceps 
 and a beefy square-jawed face. And so you, Mr. Generic Beefy Dork, are humanity's last hope. Everyone 
 just calls you Marine, where I imagine this guy's real name is something like Joe Kickass or Krump 
 Bigload. You're here at this Martian colony to investigate the general weirdness in the station. 
 Basically the entire opening segment is a complete ripoff of the opening to Half-Life. You walk 
 around looking dopey, clicking on people who say foreshadowy things, and collect your weapons. 
 What I found funny was that once I'd collected my sidearm, I could wander happily about the base 
 merrily shooting people through the head like a deranged postman, and nobody lifted a finger to 
 stop me, call for help, or fight back. Interestingly, I don't even remember them reacting to the 
 sound of gunfire other than perhaps to say Stop that! nor did they appear to get even mildly irritated 
 when I started emptying my clip at their feet like Yosemite Sam shouting Dance boy! Lemme see yuh 
 dance! And so I murdered my way through the base and the entire game, killing anyone human before 
 they had anything useful to say, and was never even scolded. You even get to walk outside onto 
 the surface of Mars, which always gives me a hilarious mental image of Arnold Schwartzenegger in 
 Total Recall rolling around with his eyes bugging out screaming Annnngh! Annnngh! in his thick 
 Austrian accent. This was my first exposure to the dreaded flashlight, which has a pathetically 
 narrow beam and offers fairly anemic light. I didn't really anticipate I'd be using it much, other 
 than the REALLY dark areas which, at this point, where relatively uncommon. Ohhhh how wrong I was. 
 Going back to the business at hand, you meet a scientist during your wanderings, this silly Chinese 
 dude who flails around losing all bowel control when he sees you. He's doing his best Private Hudson 
 impression from Aliens screaming about the Devil and Hell and all that, and how we're all gonna 
 be spending time in Hell being sodomized with pineapples next to Hitler Yeah yeah. I barely gave 
 him time to talk, actually, because I shot him in the face as I have every other person I've met 
 in this game. Our not-fascinating conversation concluded, it's the convenient time for all Hell 
 to literally break loose. Funky runes appear all over the place, skulls start flying around, the 
 lights (of course) go out, and zombies appear to half-heartedly attack you. I, meanwhile, am wondering 
 if the money I spent on DOOM3 might not have been more wisely spent on something more fulfilling, 
 like LSD or a copy of Ashlee Simpson's new album.
  
  
  Okay, maybe not that.
  
  
  I also haven't mentioned yet that the second tool that you're issued as a Marine is your PDA. The 
 PDA is basically a waste of time where you download video clips that you don't really feel like 
 watching, audio logs that you don't really want to listen to, e-mails that you don't really want 
 to read, all of which advance the plot which you don't really care about. And while you're doing 
 it, you're free to get your ass kicked by enemies you can't see while you're paying attention to 
 the PDA . The entire premise behind the PDA is ripped off from the System Shock games, which actually 
 HAS a story you care about, delivered through audio logs and voice communications. This only serves 
 to further diminish my enjoyment of the game because it would actually be a pretty good engine 
 for a new System Shock game were it not so frigging dark, and it reminds me how much I would rather 
 be using this time actually playing System Shock. The plot of DOOM3 is of course laughably stupid, 
 so you'll end up ignoring it. NOBODY CARES. But you'll be listening to the inane logs and reading 
 the insipid e-mails anyway, because that's the only way you can get the security codes that open 
 the lockers scattered around each level that contain ammo. God help you.
  
  
  But even this is badly designed, because every time you see one of these lockers, the PDA containing 
 the code is always in the exact same room! There's just no point to it all, no brainpower required. 
 So you're forced to listen to every bloody audio log, listening to idiots **** and moan about how 
 mean their boss is, whining about how they're about to die, or (most of the time) listen to Star 
 Trek technobabble about the Eigen Converters and the Quasitronic Matrix of the Teleporter Devices, 
 or the reverse polarity proton shield on the BFG rifle. I DON'T CARE! CAN'T YOU SEE I DON'T CARE? 
 You'll get so bored listening to these painful, hideously stupid logs that you'll either move on 
 and get involved in a firefight, thus drowning out the sound of the log currently being played, 
 or banging your head against the desk until the ringing in your ears drowns out the log.
  
  
  Even as a survival horror game, DOOM3 strikes a sour note by not really being very scary. The 
 darkness is more aggravating than scary, reminding me of the Dead Alewives every time I got fed 
 up with being confronted with another pitch black room and ended up witlessly attacking the darkness. 
 The sound design is banal, offering little more than monsters that all sound alike, machine-room 
 ambience, maniacal laughter, and weapons that sound like cap guns. DOOM3 fails to set an atmosphere 
 of horror, but succeeds at building one of scalp-clawing frustration. The game's scary for about 
 5 minutes, until you realize that it has nothing else to show you. This is how the first encounter 
 goes:
  
  Oh man... the lights just went out... I can't see a damn thing. Ok.. flashlight. Good. My flashlight 
 will protect me. Trusty flashlight. 
  
  *CLUNK*
  
  The hell was that! 
  
  *MUNCH MUNCH FOOM!*
  
  Aaaaahh!! Aaaaah! Something's biting me in the ass! What the -- NO I 
 don't want to hit him with the flashlight! Switch back to the gun! 
  
  *tik tik tik!* (pathetic pistol sound)
  
  Damn it this pistol sucks! 
  
  *brrrrk!* (pathetic 
 shotgun sound)
  
  Jeeeez that really hurt -- 
  
  *MUNCH MUNCH*
  
  AAAAAH!!! My ass again! I can't see! STUPID flashlight! STUPID STUPID! 
  
  
  You'll notice 
 that every time something attacks you, it invariably bites you in the ass. This is because the 
 designers decided that you'd eventually get smart and clear rooms in a consistent, safe, professional 
 manner, and realized that this isn't very scary. To combat this, monsters CONSTANTLY spawn into 
 existence directly behind you, typically after the lights go completely out. This is a profoundly 
 cheap trick that the game plays on you in virtually every room and hallway, which forces you to 
 walk through every room and corridor spinning around in moronic pirouettes. Monsters will either 
 appear in a flash of red light (very unfair) or -- and this is the really stupid part -- wall sections 
 just big enough for the monster to hide in will slide away behind you, letting each beastie hit 
 you in the back. That's right, this entire base is designed with seamless, impossible-to-notice 
 hidden wall sections that slide away silently, concealing closet-like alcoves that contain zombies. 
 Throughout the entire vastness of the base, there were technicians and marines sealed helplessly 
 in these hidden compartments at the EXACT moment the entire base was possessed by demons and evil 
 spirits. What kind of idiot do they take me for? It'll sicken you how often walls just zip aside 
 allowing zombies or demons to pile out, where they never could have been in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the scariest games I have ever played. And I dont normally do scary games (trust 
 me) . It isnt scary because of its monsters (well they are pretty scary) , but it is how these monsters 
 appear form nowhere, how they can suddenly be behind you and attack you. The graphics are amazing, 
 seeing characters faces in almost perfect detail. The gameplay is amazing, full of little quirks 
 and jokes that you can find in the PDAs you can pick up. And the idea of the PDA was a brilliant 
 one. The stuff that you can find on these PDAs is great, adding a twisted sense of humour to the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiburon4602
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game was just hype: yes, the graphics are amazing even by today&acute; s standards, but you 
 spend hours walking the same corridors, WHICH LOOK ALL THE SAME, and yes , the lighting looks incredible 
 but when you are treated to the same light tricks over and over again it just gets boring. The 
 action , on the other hand is very straightforward, in fact so simple that the only thing you need 
 to do is avoiding fireballs and shoot. it doesn&acute; t matter where you aim your shot because 
 there doesn&acute; t seem to be any kind of impact location system; you don&acute; t get to lean 
 right or left like in every other game these days, so you can&acute; t take cover properly (not 
 that matters much, because of the poor enemy AI) . All in all, it&acute; s fun for a while , perhaps 
 the 3 or 4 first hours, but then it gets repetitive and sometimes tedious. GET FARCRY INSTEAD OF 
 THIS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooM-ftw-
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  I think that the single player is very well built. The story is a little bit hard to believe that 
 is really possible but this is a SF shooter so the story is good: D
  The graphics are absolutely stunning, and i think that even after 2 and a half years after it was 
 released, the game is still the best looking game ever. The game is very dark isn't it? Yes but it 
 is a horror game so this way it should be. The sound is impressive and creates a true horror atmosphere.
 
  I was most impressed by the Hell level which is using the DOOM3 engine at maximum.
  Doom3 has a multiplayer mod but it isn't enough developed... it is more like the multiplayer from 
 the original Doom put on Doom's3 graphic engine.
  I really think that people who say about Doom3 that is too dark are idiots (i am sorry but it is 
 the truth) . Why am i saying this? Because i think that a horror game should be dark to create an 
 atmosphere. I am sorry but i read to many opinions about the game complaining that the game is too 
 dark....... people get real....... DOOM3 isn't SERIOUS SAM2....
  Overall DOOM3 is almost perfect and i say almost because of the multiplayer.... but i'll give him 
 TEN for atmosphere and forget the multiplayer because Doom3 is oriented to single player and the 
 multiplayer mod comes as fun component. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zokolov
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  For the storyline, Doom 3 is just an improvement to the first one. The powers of Hell had taken 
 over the UAC facility at Mars. It's up to one brave Space Marine to eradicate the monsters!
  
  Doom 3 is plain id software! It has some spooky elements (exspecially with the headphones on, 
 creepy) but it's mostly just mindless bashing! Actually, there's not as much mindless shooting 
 than in the first Dooms. This starts with a pieceful, Half-Life-like experience of where you explore 
 the game.
  
  The game is just simply running around the corridors, killing everything on your way. No puzzles, 
 no unnecessary cutscenes, just guns to collect. All your favorites are here: The shotgun, the plasma 
 rifle and of course Big **** Gun 9000! The monsters are basically the same too, just upgraded.
 
  
  Doom 3 is short and simple, and has some flaws too. Even as the graphics are top-notch, it still 
 has too much darkness. Also, the weapons seem too weak compared to the old Dooms. Sometimes you 
 need to blast the imp 3 times with the shotgun until it dies... Worth of playing once, doesn't really 
 hit like the previous one, but it's worth of playing anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Gundam01
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 28, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good: It was scary, that's about all it had going for it.
  
  The Bad: there needed to be a ducttape mod so you could use your flashlight and have a gun at the 
 same time. This game was the biggest disappointment in gamming i can remember. Though asthetically 
 pleasing, the game had little to no replayability, nothing terribly inovative, stupidly annoying 
 features. I'd also like to point out the stupidity of the nightmare difficulty level where the 
 only difference in the game is that your health drains down to 25. Could they not have done something 
 else like, oh i don't know, maybe had more enemies, made the enemies smarter, or something that 
 isn't incredibly lazy. after all of htat, It only gave me about 6 hours of gamplay. Conclusion: 
 after a 7 year wait, this was the biggest let down in gaming history. Gamespot should be ashamed 
 to give this piece of **** a rating of great . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_Helmond
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it short and simple on this one:
  
  Graphics: the game looks very good.
  Goal of the game: Just shoot everything that moves.
  
  In the first 15 minutes, you'll get 
 startled every time you hear a noise in the game, because you know: there's a zombie somewhere, 
 and probably behind your back. But after 15 minutes you'll start to realise, these zombie guys 
 are behind EVERY piece of wall, furniture and door. All you have to do is walk to the end of this 
 'empty' hallway, turn around and find this hallway to be infested with zombies and stuff. THIS 
 IS VERY ANNOYING. There's simply no surprise after a while because you'll just know by the look 
 of a wall, of door, that the enemy won't come through until you've turned your back to it. If you 
 really really wan't to see this game, lent it from someone, put it in god mode and run through 
 it as fast as you can. Otherwise, this game will annoy you to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyborg-21
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay mechanics are good, but they are not really that innovative. The pace of 
 the game is slow, and which some gamers will appreciate this, some won't. The basic rule is to 
 run and gun, and try and see in the dark.
  
  GRAPHICS: 3 years on, the graphics still look nice on a good PC. In Ultra mode, the textures look 
 pin-sharp, and the extra AF really does enhance the image quality. The lighting in the game is 
 also great, with real-time dynamic shadows.
  
  SOUND: The sound is excellent. The theme tune is memorable, and really fits in well with the mood 
 of the game. More than that, the ambient sounds and the sounds of the demons really are great, 
 and add immensly to the overall effect. VALUE: The single-player is long, and is quite replayable 
 at the different difficulty settings. The multi-player however, is poor and lets the game down 
 a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeratul911
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics but thats about it, very predictible, the same zombie jumping out around the corner, 
 the whole game takes place in very dark halls, there are no big wide open spaces as in the original 
 doom. you have to wait until the end of the game to get any good weapons, and by then the game 
 is just about over Great graphics but thats about it, very predictible, the same zombie jumping 
 out around the corner, the whole game takes place in very dark halls, there are no big wide open 
 spaces as in the original doom. you have to wait until the end of the game to get any good weapons, 
 and by then the game is just about over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haydar21101990
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the third part of Doom Sereie and it jump very long &amp; far diffrent from the past 
 Doom games 1 &amp; 2 ON PC . . . DOOM 3 got a wonderful graphics (just working on NVIDIA VGA card 
 ) the details of zombies + MARS PLANET + weapons are cool . . . The story took place on Mars when 
 some freakin doors opened in science labs , monster , zombies and whatever come out and start to 
 kill everyone . . . Gameplay is depend Mainly on takeing weapons . . . killing monsters &amp; zombies 
 . . . finding ways to open doors . . . its really realy really creepy game and want an creepy horror 
 game try Doom 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BearWonderer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  CAUTION: PLAYING THIS GAME ENTERS YOU TO THE WORLD YOU NEVER SEEN BEFORE!
  
  This Game is all about knowing what had happen to the experiments dealt from mars. A Marine desperate 
 to get answers to what had cause this situation. One Commander, who gives orders to know what to 
 do on this incident, vs HELL. Prepare your self because even thou this game is like a horror scene 
 that always let's you felt fear, beware, this is not for fainted heart. If you have the strength to 
 put this game to rest, so be it.
  
  STORY
  BRING DOWN HELL!
  
  CHARACTER (S)
  A Marine, A Commander, One Team, One HELL
  
  SOUNDS
  BEWARE, HELL APPROACHES!
  
  GAMEPLAY
 
  Sadly but it really is hard to distinguish the differences of one's gameplay (comparison to Games 
 related to Sci-fi First Person Shooting)
  
  MY EXPERIENCE AFTER SO MANY HOURS... IT GETS BORING!!! some or most of the time you get the feeling 
 your just in the same place and worst, repeating enemies, I recommend that please make another gun 
 (or guns) , design it more, make for ruthless killing, the pistol it's kinda weird, the shotgun (After 
 many hours) gets annoying and the rest can compare to it.
  
  OVER ALL
  Just Try It Out First 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flippr_NF
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I really enjoyed playing this game, but Im glad Ive got it finished. It was long enough 
 without dragging on forever, and the graphics were fantastic. The atmosphere is both a pro and 
 a con. There really is a sense of doom and gloom throughout, but the game is just too dark with 
 too many areas completely black. I brought up gamma, brightness etc as far as I could before washing 
 out the game, but some areas are completely black until you turn on the flashlight, leaving you 
 momentarily defenceless. While most levels felt completely linear, their design was good enough 
 to mask that fact quite often.
  
  Ive read reviews that said they didnt like having to read all the emails and listen to audio 
 logs. I actually felt that they added a lot of character to the game. I still read and listened 
 to every one, even after I downloaded a list of locker codes.
  
  As I said in the beginning, I did enjoy playing it. But I definitely have a feeling of been there, 
 done that now. I have no interest in the expansion pack, and its unlikely Ill play Doom 4 if 
 such a game is ever created. So I guess the game wasnt 100% successful after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarthvader
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an intresting game. Its a follow up to the best FPS ever, and it had better been good.
 
  It took ages for Doom 3 to release, it was delayed for upto 2 years and only god knew what was 
 taking ID so long. Naturally the more time they took, the better the game would be, however things 
 were a little different.
  
  Doom 3 is the best damn looking game ever created in history. Even in 2007 there is no game that 
 beats it in graphics. Moving lights, smoother and curved surfaces and every thing you can possibly 
 think of, is there; with the exception of lights. The game is very dark and rarely will you find 
 any lights or bright area.
  
  I liked the gameplay, it felt good, like doom 2 and quake 2. The weapons packed a punch and they 
 felt powerful. The arsenal is the same as the orignal doom with a few exceptions. Basically it 
 was fun to play.
  
  The sound is the most impressive area of the game. From what i've heard, ID spent the most of their 
 effort on sound, and thats why the game was late. The sound is what really created an erie atmosphere 
 in the game. The music and the monsters really sounded superb and very scary. On a lot of occasions 
 i jumped off my seat because some scary ass creature jumped on my from no where.
  
  Thats just about for the good things. The game was fun to play for about and hour after which it 
 began to look very annoying and repetitive. Flashlight or gun, choose your pick; thats the motto 
 of the game. The game is too dark, so much so that its not fun. I agree it was scary but the whole 
 10 hours like this was not fun. Over and over again there were the same monsters attacking.
  
  So unless you are a serious ID type games fan, you probably will not enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  This game was a definate pleaser when you first opened it out of the box. I loved it! although 
 it is fairly hard even on easy mode.
  
  Gameplay:
  very challenging u die alot so get ready for that. SAVE often! the dark lighting, bloody visuals, 
 creepy monsters and sounds give this game alot more Oomf compared to the older versions on DOOM. 
 Although theres not much to DOOM III, thats the thing that makes it not perfect, Run, Kill, locked 
 door, get key, Run, Get key, unlock door, kil, kill kill! and thats pretty much the whole game 
 summed up ina few words.
  
  I also didnt like the selection of weapons, the shotgun is just horrible its only good at point 
 blank range, and the pistol is completely useless but makes a decent sniper rifle from afar. and 
 the stupid flashlight!?!?! have they heard of a GUN WITH AN ATTACHED ONE?!?! lol its like the year 
 2700 and they cant figure that one out yet. Online mulitiplayer is missing Co-OP mode, but i think 
 theres cracks around it ive seen a few online games called Co-OP like the XBOX version not sure 
 if it works or not.
  Maps are very small not much skill needed to play
  
  Graphics:
  simply amazing for its time, right up there beside Half-life 2! lighting and gore effects make 
 it one creepy game. Everything looks astounding!
  
  Sound:
  Simply amazing, keeps you on your fingers and with a good set of sound card/speakers you really 
 feel the game.
  
  Overall its just a good game even if your just running around killing things, cause hey, thats 
 mostly what we want to see from a shooter anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_mayhem_01
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I've read the reviews and noticed a trend. Why are most of the negative reviews written by people 
 who have bad grammar and a weak comprehension of the English language?!? Did the competition hire 
 a bunch of DP's to write the negative reviews? Or are they under aged children playing a M rated 
 title? Immature children reviewing a M ature rated game... go figure. With that being said I'll 
 tell it like it is. Doom 3 is a grate gaim and dat me like it a hole bunch but it's no good cose 
 Im a wiener... LOL. Just kidding. Seriously though Doom 3 IS a great game and not as bad as some 
 say it is. Sure it's somewhat repetitive and a little redundant at times, but what did people expect 
 from this type of genre? Pimped out tanks that shoot out heat seeking nuclear warheads?!? It's 
 a RESEARCH facility with marines that expected to secure nothing more than the human factor! Doom 
 3 is new in the sense that it's predecessors never existed. The reason ID didn't want to tie in 
 the first Doom games is because of redundancy. Why would homosapiens continuously invest and revisit 
 a planet where evil legions reign and ruin everything over and over again? This is why we have 
 the expansion pack Resurrection Of Evil for Doom 3! Because they do exactly that... go back and 
 try to salvage what they started. This is just common sense.
  
  The graphics are nothing short of amazing considering you have a graphic card and a CPU that can 
 handle Doom 3. Eye candy galore makes 50% of the game. If a person argues that point then go play 
 ET for Atari! Intimidation is 50% of the battle in a street fight! The rest comes with backing 
 up a big mouth! Does Doom 3 back up its big mouth underlying its fancy graphics? Yes, about 30% 
 more and we have 80% of a positive rating because Yes , there ARE also about a 20% ratio of issues 
 that prevent Doom 3 from reaching its full potential of a 100% positive ratio. Game-play suffers 
 somewhat because your character seems to suffer from acute stiffness. You can't lean nor go prone 
 whatsoever. When you duck it reacts like a six-year old responds to drill sergeant calisthenics. 
 Your character is kind of twitchy and can get stuck sometimes when your exploring your environment. 
 Make sure you save often in case that happens. Moreover, you really can't interact with all that 
 much except what your, mostly, linear path dictates. It would be great to have more paths that 
 commit more to the gamers choices which effect the end result! It's also obvious that many people 
 don't like how dark Doom 3 is, but that's how it's supposed to be. You really can't expect all 
 that much light from power failures and natural lighting from windows that may break from a hostile 
 environment such as Mars. I'll agree that it CAN be a nuisance, but Falkens Light Mod takes care 
 of that rather easily if it bothers a person that much. Speaking of Mods, MegaEfx is an absolute 
 MUST if you love extra blood and bodies all over the place. The only downer is that the MegaEfx 
 Mod takes even MORE CPU power to run it. Good thing my system is pumped and pimped (Win. XP (Home 
 SP2) - 2.1 Gigahertz - 1024 MB Memory - 256MB ATI Radeon X850 Pro Series - 160 Gig Hard Drive... blah 
 blah) Doom 3 absolutely rocks on my system. However, Doom 3 contains technology that surpasses 
 mine and can be set even higher on next generation comps.
  
  Furthermore, people also complain of how some of the weapons are too powerful for the confining 
 space of the level design. Tactics in Doom 3 are best applied with the FADE and HIT technique. 
 Running is your best friend! Run ahead FADE back and HIT them. Usually you have enough room to 
 use the heavy artillery. Mind you I play very aggressively too. Doom 3 is loaded with path triggers 
 that spawn bad guys so the notion of whining about not being able to nuke bad guys before you can 
 see them or clearing out rooms before you enter them is just wrong and weak! Oh sure, clear out 
 a room with a grenade before you enter is lame as you don't know if friend or foe is present within. 
 Not only that, but why would enemies spawn way before you got there? ID is using surprise tactics 
 here although the AI could be somewhat smarter. Maybe just dumb people go to hell where their tormented 
 by even dumber demons.
  
  Then there's the PDA's, people whine about how long it takes to listen to audios for crucial codes. 
 Suck it up cupcake! Write them down for the next time you play Doom 3. Won't play it a second time 
 because it sucks? Hey, you already bought the damn thing so like that's a legitimate complaint... NOT. 
 Crucial audio recordings aren't even that long and there aren't many of them so why this even came 
 up was beyond me. Sentry bots overpowered? Well let's see, how about the fact that HEAD SHOTS DO 
 WORK! Yet another erroneous gripe of how Doom 3 could have been better. I do agree with Greg Kasavin 
 that with sentry firepower and with the other marines of how the base could have been overrun, 
 but I'll go out on a limb for this one. Let's just say that a massive amount of demons spawned 
 on them before you got there and wasted your comrades and the demon cadavers just simply turned 
 to dust as they always do. The result is the aftermath you stumble across. This still doesn't explain, 
 although I wish ID did, of why you and some others weren't possessed like everyone else. Maybe 
 that had something to do with faith and religion or something.... who knows?!? The story does have 
 its loopholes and that there is no denying.
  
  Sound would be one of the other things that bring Doom 3 down slightly. The pistol sounds like 
 your firing cabbages. The machine gun sounds like a high velocity nail gun and the shotgun has 
 a metallic tinny sound to it. The rest of the weapons aren't that bad. One reviewer complained 
 about how the main characters footsteps drove him mental. It DOES kind of sound like your wearing 
 Gene Simmons' (KISS) platform boots while tearing around the levels, but not enough to drive me 
 queer though. The ambient sounds, voice acting, demons and general sound, however; are all very 
 well done. Replay is also good as there are plenty of Mods out there. However, the multi-player 
 just sucks as far as I'm concerned. I know many people would give a bad review because of this 
 one major issue and I don't blame them. Some games weren't really made for multi-player such as 
 Hitman - Blood Money. Multi-player WAS an afterthought in Doom 3, that much was obvious. What you've 
 read thus far entails the 20% that could have been improved. That's not bad. But as far as I'm 
 concerned ID did a damn good job on Doom 3 nevertheless because it becomes pretty apparent that 
 they DID spend 4 years on it and that alone is an accomplishment. 80% positive and growing I'm 
 sure. Great job guys... keep it up! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeSlayer01
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 puts you in the point of view of a space marine sent to check out a UAC base on Mars. The 
 science they've been unearthing recently has been questionable.
  
  The gameplay is simple: if it moves, kill it. That's basically it. It's that simple. Sometimes 
 you can do cool things on computer screens, though. And for some reason in the 22nd century, they 
 don't have flashlights on their guns. You have to constantly switch between flashlight and gun 
 to see the ugly monstrosity you're handing a bullet to.
  
  Doom 3's graphics are good, but not fantastic. For the time it was released, I'd like to think 
 it set a milestone in game visuals. Certain effects in the game are the best I've seen, such as 
 the flashlight. Doom 3 has the most realistic looking flashlight I've ever seen.
  
  The sound in the game is terrifying. Monster screams, ambient loops, and guns are all first class. 
 The shotgun in Doom 3 is the best-sounding shotgun I've heard in any game.
  
  The game is definitely a good value. Especially considering there are very fun co-op mods out, 
 such as OpenCoop and Last Man Standing. Overall, Doom 3 is a horrifying take on the first-person 
 shooter genre and offers an immersive experience of Hell in the endgame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what it says about id's confidence in the Doom 3 engine that it's flagship game is 
 played mostly in the dark. That said, the game is a masterpiece of building a haunting atmosphere... 
 the graphics don't do nearly as good a job at this as do the excellent use of positional sound 
 and solid level design. It also does a great job of sticking to traditional gameplay: shooting 
 first and thinking later.
  
  The Graphics are fantastic, though. Characters are well rendered and animated. It's almost like 
 playing a CGI movie rather than a video game. The graphics are almost too good, however. Id textured 
 the living snot out of everything in the game. Every surface seems weathered to some degree and 
 the characters all have some sort of skin condition - James Woods or Edward James Almos should 
 have played the lead in the movie instead of the Rock.
  
  The game is also helped by a solid community of mod-makers giving Doom 3 some life long after you've 
 finished it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCyberDDemon
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a very bad game. Possibly one of the worst I've played in a long time. Thats easy to 
 say... The gameplay is too boring. The line history its so confuse, and If you waited so long to 
 see innovations and some of ''Residente Evil'' Survival stuff... you will be dissapointed.
  
  ''Doom 3 is not a sequel, but... but... but... it is doom 3 anyway. What the fans have to realize, 
 is that the others doom never happened before. And, in Doom 3, the player is back on mars. (oh 
 really ????) '' Tim Willits
  
  What a shame to the old-school... What a shame... Et tu Tim?
  
  So, let's do this thing. I 
 gonna write my Review, even the level designer knows that this game just sucks. So I'm comfortable 
 saying what I'm about to say.
  
  Playing this game strikes me that the folks at id software spent all their time and effort into 
 making it look good, and then hired Cousin Jimmy to come up with the gameplay. And cousin Jimmy 
 did it all while Mom and Dad were at the parent-teacher conference. Let me explain why it's so 
 bad, and give the evidence to explain my score.
  
  Doom 3 is a first-person shooter; you run around and see things as if you're looking out of the 
 character's eyes; you're weapon sticks out in front as if you're holding it. That's the basic system 
 in the past... But still like that on Doom 3 today. Even the first doom have some ''strategic weapons'' 
 for short distance or long distance, or fast rate of fire. Even back-packs to add more chances 
 for your survival, to take some SO needed extra ammo. For the shame, the old Blue Orb of health 
 and partial invisibilty isn't on Doom 3. The problem is, there have been other first-person shooters 
 and Doom 3 adds nothing to the genre. In fact, earlier games have had more, like Half-life 2, Halo 
 or Call of Cthullu. What can be more bad to old-school players than that?? Well, '93 first Doom 
 started it all you says... Well, you're right.
  
  Doom 3 looks amazing. But that's it. The graphics are excellent. But the gameplay is pathetic: 
 Enter room, monsters appears to attack you, kill them. They dissapear. New objective: Kill more 
 monster at a room.
  
  Damn, how pleasant it was on the past, killing all that outnumbered HELL SPAWN and making scary 
 noises of pain and infesting the floor with their bodies. (you never fight 4 enemys at the same 
 time due to doom3 engine limitations)
  
  Sure, the id folks added a basic storyline (you're on Mars, demons have invaded the base through 
 a portal, a scientist got possessed, blabla) . But like a sex movie, the plot is just tacked on 
 to have something there. It doesn't add anything. Enter room, kill everything, repeat. So, who 
 cares? The old Doom never got a real history to tell, you think? Take a look at Doom and see, he 
 got history. But the new doom... its just not as good as i have expected.
  
  Take a look on that bald old man. Malcom got possessed, and he have stolen the powerfull soul cube 
 while the demons shows up on the base. The lost civilization on Mars is really cool, but a little 
 more of Clive Barker's stuff would do it all right. But Clive Barker isn't here to drawn a real 
 nightmare for us, so expect some scary little stuffs like lights turning off and some odds on the 
 end of a corridor from Matthew Castello. A horror movie writer.
  
  There is no real music on the game like before, it is more like a ambience sounds that flows up 
 like a music. The Doom 3 expasion pack, Ressurection of Evil, got a lot more of that fluid and 
 much more sensible in that matter, like some epic movie about good and evil. But is always the 
 same sound and ambience thing for more than 10 hours, who can handle it?
  
  If that was the worst of it, Doom 3 would simply be boring. But it's not. It's actively annoying.
 
  
  First of all, you have to spend the first 15 or 20 minutes not just viewing the backstory, but 
 actively participating -- walking where you're told, standing where you're told, etc. -- all so 
 you can listen to these characters yammer on. Like in Republic Commando, the introduction is AWESOME. 
 But here on Doom 3 the intro is terrible booring. It adds nothing to the game, but there's no way 
 to skip it.
  
  The designers decided to add an occasional puzzle, if you could call it that. Here's what they 
 came up with: As you go around the Mars base, you pick up PDAs (personal digital assistants) that 
 have been left lying around. You can then read the e-mail and listen to the voice mail of others.
 
  
  Why? Because occasionally there are locked lockers, and you have to pore through these messages 
 to get to something dopey like, I've changed the combination of locker 43 to 4-4-5. Sometimes you 
 have to sit through several minutes of inane and useless voice mail to get to this stuff; you can't 
 fast-forward. Boooring.
  
  If there was one important locker that you needed the combination for, this would be an OK puzzle. 
 But none of the lockers are critical, and the puzzle gets old after the first two. Then it's just 
 an annoyance -- the a-ha moment of puzzle solving isn't there; it's just a chore.
  
  You have to stop the game just to view a Web page for a locker combination. What a waste. This 
 is pathetic. In a couple of cases you need to go to a Web page to get the combination. And that 
 means shutting the game, going to the page (www. martianbuddy. com) to get the number 0508, and restarting 
 the game. No puzzles or anything -- just go to the site and the answer is right there. A waste 
 of time.
  
  So you travel through the game, ostensibly being given instructions via radio by Sargent Kelly 
 (e. g., Meet up with Bravo Team!!! ) , but those instructions are meaningless: You don't have a choice 
 at all. The pathway is, for all intents and purposes, two-dimensional. You go forward not to meet 
 Bravo Team, but because you can only go one way. And the damn Sargent just keeps given that order 
 all the time. Quake 2 was not like that, and i have waited so long to see this on Doom 3... but 
 i found nothing.
  
  And that's perhaps the biggest of Doom 3's downfalls: You don't have choices. You have to go this 
 way, you have to push this button, you have to climb here or jump there. (At one point you do get 
 a choice, go one way or the other, but that's over and done with quickly.)
  
  It is time to speak about the dumb and unamed marine. Who can carry 9 weapons full of ammo at the 
 same time, but he can't use a Flash light while holding a weapon. In games like Alone in the Darkness, 
 the guy just put the flash light on his shotgun with adhesive glue, to bring some light to his 
 dark situation . Why the dumb marine on 22 century can do that too? So put the Flash Light on mouth, 
 hold it with the teeths man...
  
  Another annoyance of Doom 3's is the seemingly ever-spawning monsters. The noise from the old doom 
 was scary, but here is just annoying. Some of them just appear from nowhere, so you can't clear 
 a room out. It's a case of demon ex machina -- no matter what you do, the designers have decreed 
 that this creature will appear in this place, period.
  
  For example, you have grenades. Useful for tossing into a room before you enter... you would think. 
 But in Doom 3, it often doesn't matter. The rule seems to be, if you don't see the monster you 
 can't kill it, even if you throw a grenade two feet from where it's hiding. The grenade NEVER works 
 well.
  
  This lack of logic: monsters that spawn where they want to, and others that can't be killed because, 
 I suppose, the gamemakers didn't want them killed till they got a shot at you, just adds to the 
 general low quality of the whole experience.
  
  There are other things. The room abound with stuff, computer terminals and the like. But they're 
 almost always just decorations. You can't interact with anything except the few items you have 
 to use. For example, let's say you have to use a computer to extend a walkway. The computer will 
 have a single button: Extend Walkway. There's no challenge, no choice, no nothing. You push the 
 button and that's it. Blow your fire into one, nothing happen. They're indestructible... To create 
 Doom 3, ID needs to hire a gameplay specialist or even a gamer. Someone who will add choices to 
 the game, allow you to follow different paths, and most importantly, allow you to deal with things 
 in different ways. Just like in the real world. How a man can deal with a massive onslaught, from 
 hell ? What about the odds, some sanity metter or body limitations?
  
  Maybe you have a rope you can use to cross a chasm if you can't find the Extend Walkway button. 
 Maybe you can lay a trap. Maybe you can approach a space different ways, climb the outside or go 
 through the roof. Maybe another survivor like you can help you at distance? What about some self-destruction 
 sequence, so cool on games like that? Sometimes, your marine get allucinated, but not enough to 
 scare you.
  
  But if all they can come up with is Enter room, kill everything, repeat, maybe they should try 
 their hands at something else.
  
  Follow-Up: I took a look at some other reviews of the game. They all say pretty much what I did: 
 Great looking, but boring gameplay. But you know what's amazing? Despite that, these review still 
 gave it scores of 8 or 9 out of 10. Incredible. It's a boring game, but since it looks good we'll 
 give it a high score. Hey, its all about Doom! I do not agree with this.
  
  The good and old Doom is dead, let's face it, and he is burning in hell. Fast paced shooter, the 
 legend... rest in peace... it was really fun. Thanks ID. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoz18
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a fantastic PC game. I. D Software has made good graphics and sound for Quake 4 and Doom 
 3, in Doom 3 they have taken advantage of the maximum computer power e. g. Processor Speed, Graphics 
 Card. The Graphics are up to top notch and the sound is good. The dark environment of Doom 3 gets 
 a bit boring because you know when baddies are going to jump out at you. On the other hand the 
 environment is good because you dont know whats coming next and whats going to jump out at you. 
 I. D Software has made a fantastic Sequel from Doom 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alionline83
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a graphic master piece from Activision. In fact all aspects of the game are positively 
 comment able and most of the buyers feels, it worths what it takes.
  
  I will like to split my review in categories to make it easier and meaningful.
  
  GRAPHICS.
 
  
  Well, Doom 3 has the best graphics i have ever experience in any game. You will not go under walls 
 like IGI, you will not see blue backgrounds behind the texture like Counter Strike. Characters, 
 when killed, are intelligently eliminated from the seen. Objects in the game are movable which 
 makes it more realistic. The only thing i object, Graphic wise is the expressionless face of the 
 Hero. It would be fantastic if they could make it look like Hitman or Max Payne (1) . He seems expressionless 
 and not very interesting.
  
  SOUND
  
  I give 90 out of 100 to sound of Doom 3. Its simply fantastic and most importantly it matches the 
 whole gameplay.
  
  DIFFICULTY
  
  I play most of the games at average difficulty and average difficulty gives me tough time. In Doom 
 3, till Delta Labs 4, you will find it a piece of cake. Very easy to play and i easily got through 
 those levels without getting killed. But when HELL starts, difficulty level starts increasing, 
 i found it very difficult after playing 80% of the game. I think this area is not that good, in 
 fact i call it unbalanced.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Overall its a very interesting game with long duration. Unlike few of other hit games, it has depth 
 and story goes on, on and on. I played a racing game few days back, it was a bit difficult game 
 to master and when i was starting to enjoy it, the game ended. This doesn't happen with Doom 3, 
 you will find it very interesting and you will enjoy it until the end.
  
  Some of the characters are little illogical, in the sense that they have huge bodies and low hit 
 points, which is another weak of this game. on the other hand, Spiders have low hit points but 
 they have good damage and speed which makes lot of sense.
  
  Bosses are very tough and great aspect of the game. You will find it difficult to get through them 
 and thats what boss is all about :)
  
  The PDA and boxes with supplies are great addition to the game. Its really fun to find the access 
 code of the boxes and you feel proud of yourself when you open the door and find Ammo or Health 
 or Armor. I like the game and i recommend it to any price conscious buyers.
  
  Muhammed Ali 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This game hardly needs another review at this point but I still wanted to add my voice to those 
 who say it is in fact and excellent game and a worthy successor to the Doom name.
  
  Not surprisingly, over 2 years after its release the graphics are still among the best of any PC 
 game available. This is soon to change but that cannot take away the landmark achievement this 
 game was graphically. It looks every bit as good as has been claimed over and over in the gaming 
 press and user reviews.
  
  Many people complained about excessive darkness in the game but I didn't find that as overly done 
 as I expected to after all I'd read about it. In fact, I really didn't feel it was overdone or 
 that it detracted from the visuals at all. It helped to add atmosphere and often contributed to 
 the intense tension so prevalent in this game.
  
  The science fiction story is what you'd expect here but its good and carries the action along well, 
 lending purpose to your quest to reach your final destination and epic battle. I played it on hurt 
 me plenty which I think is now just called normal difficulty and found it plenty challenging. Being 
 sure to back into dark corners and check around all crates, etc. pays off often with extra armor 
 shards, ammo, etc.
  
  The use of the PDA as a device to carry the story forward and give userful information about unlocking 
 cabinets with needed supplies is well done if perhaps a little too frequent interruption to the 
 action. If you get stuck the Gamespot Guide is very good by the way and well worth having on hand.
 
  
  There is some backtracking although not too bad. Occasionally I found myself annoyed and lost but 
 that is likely more about me than the game itself. For the most part it moves along well from level 
 to level and offers an increasing variety of monsters and weaponry as you go along.
  
  The weapons are excellent, look great, sound great, pack plenty of punch and are very satisfying 
 to use. I loved the new rocket launcher, bfg and probably used the plasma gun more than any other 
 weapon once i had it.
  
  I enjoyed the game start to finish and loved how this recreates all the monsters of old in a new 
 setting with a new and well done story. It was better than I was expecting game play wise. I was 
 expecting more tech demo than game but I was happy to find the game itself was excellent.
  
  The atmosphere is chilling and very creepy at times and the darkness in places, especially 
 when the lights suddenly go out really adds to that. There were times I genuinely had the creeps 
 crawling through some dimly lit area or in ductwork and hearing the wails of God knows what somewhere 
 out there. Great stuff.
  
  I found the ending to be satisfying and it clearly leaves the door ajar for what was to be the 
 now released expansion. I liked this enough to probably play that also at some point, even if as 
 has been reported it is basically more of the same. More of this can't be a bad thing.
  
  The multi-player is fun although it does not bring anything new to the table other than cool visual 
 environments to play in. One does quickly get a feeling of been there, done that in Doom 3's online 
 play. Just the same, it's a nice addition even though it isn't likely to keep you occupied for 
 very long before you want to move on to something else. Doom 3 would not have been complete without 
 at least this basic online play. It's too bad they didn't do more with that though.
  
  If you enjoyed the Doom games of old or even if you never got to play them, this game is something 
 that really ought to be seen and enjoyed by any fan of Science Fiction first person shooters. It 
 easily deserves the superb rating I am giving it along with many others before and very likely 
 after me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reino6
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  The graphics are extremely excellent in the game. Shadows, characters etc. Monsters are horrifying. 
 Sounds are also horrifying. Turn those speakers and bass up, if you play.
  What i liked at most, is the story. I havent played the other Doom`s. I have seen them and i have 
 a little familiar with them, but i think the first Doom was groundbreaking. Although i didnt pay 
 attention then to story. Now when i have finished the Doom3 i can say the story is magnificent. 
 The size of the game is great.
  Some time in the middle of the game i thought that there`s too much fright spots in the game. There 
 was like at every corner or room a monster who jumps at your face. And then when you go back a 
 few steps, then there are again monsters. This is the game where i jumped very frequently in my 
 chair. I usually play the game economically - like loading previous save game when i thought i 
 waisted too much good ammo or something. But in Doom3 sometimes i freaked so out that i just smashed 
 the bullets out of the barrels and when killed, i did not load the previous save, cause it was 
 so scary to repeat that again. And i cant describe the HELL better, like it was depicted in the 
 game.
  The game ended continually so i want to try the Resurrection of evil as well.
  I havent tried the multiplayer yet, but i think it`s ok. But i think that this game is single player 
 only. I just like to play it more as a mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToddHagen
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the ID games since wolfenstein, and in each case, the technical elements of 
 the engine and the sound have always been top notch. On the other hand, the story is usually pretty 
 simple or even lame.
  
  Doom 3 builds a fairly good story, and the buildup to the catastrophe is quite good, with pacing 
 and challenges ramping up nicely. The game is VERY dark and I found that it is unplayable in most 
 daylight situations. The dark is very black and often you are left literally froping in near to 
 total blackness for the majority of the game. I found that pretty unrealistic for above-ground 
 levels as windows and natural light could have enhanced the experience - instead it's like an above 
 ground version of the cave and tunnel levels - it gets pretty monotonous.
  
  Another problem is the tacked on homages to things like the beserk pack - rarely found and weakly 
 executed. You find one and go on a punching rampage for about a minute - that's it - it never again 
 appears and isn't really a tool or option worth including for such a short stint. I would have 
 loved to use it at the end to attack the big boss.
  
  The game ends nicely and tidily provides a segue to the sequel. I found the game satisfying for 
 the bargain price I bought it for, and there is definitely extensibility through mods and levels. 
 If you like to be scared and challenged, this is a great game - now at a reasonable price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkaddict1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 24, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The game engine behind Doom 3 could possibly be the show-stealer here. The graphics are absolutely 
 splendid; the way the shadows mask the scary monsters, the detailed textures on the scary monsters, 
 and the scary monsters themselves. By the way, there are scary monsters in this game. Big, scary 
 monsters that make you wanna crap yourself. Even the zombies can scare the willies outta you in 
 the beginning of the game. id not only makes the creatures and the world look believable, but they 
 add the perfect atmospheric music and sound FX from any good horror movie. id creates the perfect 
 environment; walking down a dark hallway, your flashflight casting sppoky shadows, when all of 
 sudden MONSTER ATTACK FROM BEHIND!!!... AAHHH!!!
  Unfortunately, other than this games outrageous cinematic quality and top-notch frights, it offers 
 nothing new to the series. It still plays identically to the first and second, and while this is 
 not necessarily a poor design choice, when compared to, say, Half-Life 2, you can see where the 
 gameplay model shows its age. The environment, while beautifully rendered, offers little to nothing 
 the gameplay. There is little interactivity, with a few exceptions. id did an excellent job producing 
 the scares, but where is the rest of the game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NZX666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 1:44 am PT
Review:  First person shooters have been a driving force for graphics technology since the release of the 
 original Doom, and id software has become a household name as a result. In recent times however, 
 id has come to be known as little more than a powerhouse technology developer (especially after 
 the release of the original Half-life) , providing the engines for which the actual games can be 
 made. Doom 3 is proof that id can design a good set of levels and provide a compelling narrative 
 when it wants to. Alongside Half-life 2, Doom 3 is perhaps one of the most immersive and thrilling 
 high-action experiences you can ever experience.
  
  Key to its success is the games overbearing atmosphere; id pulls all the right strings when drawing 
 you into its dark little universe. *Minor spoiler ahead*. The game starts with a lengthy introductory 
 sequence, taking a leaf from Half-life's book- you will go about the UAC mars facility for about 
 10-20 minutes without firing a single shot, hell you don't even get your hands on a gun until about 
 half an hour in. Throughout the time you get the feeling that something isn't quite right- the 
 civilian inhabitants of the UAC facility have a pallid, almost undead look about them, and they 
 are always spooked by you creeping up on them. The UAC facility is a frightening monster all in 
 itself-that is until the **** inevitably hits the fan. Doom 3 brings back the demons of yesteryear's 
 doom, as well as a few small areas in the larger levels that fans will recognise, bringing a nostalgic 
 feeling into the game. Doom 3 is, after all, a remake of the original Doom. Where it excels over 
 its predecessors (and many other modern shooters) is in its atmosphere. Doom 3 will screw with 
 your mind.
  Let me rephrase that, what you feel through this game is (for lack of a better description) an 
 overbearing sense of menace. It'll have you on edge at the worst of times, and at the best of times... well, 
 I really don't want to think about it right now. It scares me too much.
  
  The atmosphere would be pointless without a large dose of exciting game play now, wouldn't it? 
 The Doom 3 shotgun- and I don't speak lightly here- is perhaps the beastiest shotgun ever in a 
 first person shooter- encapsulates what the game is all about. Going toe to toe with your enemy, 
 right in there face, and firing a shell right in their face (accompanied by a suitable BOOM!) - 
 weaving through the fireballs thrown by an imp, side-stepping a pink demon and blowing away their 
 flank. The intense gunplay is further complemented by the expansive weapon economy- the weapon 
 set is perfectly balanced, and allows you to approach combat situations from the choice of weapons 
 you use- there isnt a use-this-gun-on-this-enemy system in place, but instead more of a well 
 theres three trites (spiders with human heads) in a group, theyre weak- so I could take them 
 out with a grenade from a safe distance, or I could use that pistol ammo Ive been hoarding, or 
 even my chain-gun. A different decision for every situation- and because of that the choices are 
 immensely satisfying. There is one slight problem however. The game is extremely well paced, but 
 the game is so constantly intense that it sometimes becomes tiring to play. This minor gripe will 
 have a possibly detrimental effect on the way you play it- you shouldnt play for more than an 
 hour at a time. If you seriously want to enjoy this game, take it slowly, and it should last you 
 in both memory and in time spent playing. At such a rate expect to finish it in about 30 hours- 
 Doom 3 is of above average length, and can get a little repetitive at times-but you will most definitely 
 enjoy it. Worthy of your time and money, this is ids crowning glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: role-player07
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  DOOM 3 scared the poop out of me throughout the entire game. I am shivering hoping I don't run 
 into another monster as I play in the pitch black view. Take out your flashlight and hope for the 
 best. Graphics are perfect and the gameplay is amazing. Sound is so underrated I don't even understand. 
 Don't go with the pros on this one, trust me buy this game. It won so many awards for a reason. 
 You will get scared and you will love this game. The only down is the level of diffuculty, you 
 should be an expierenced gamer if you want to play this game and beat it. This game is long and 
 a lot of fun. It can get frustraiting sometimes when you just want to not be alone for 5 minutes, 
 but thats too bad this game is mostly solo. Online stinks but singleplayer is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teodriel
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Ergg... wll is by know quite some time since I played Doom 3, but I remember it like it was yesterday.
 
  When I first upgrade my Pc, in the early 2005, I decide to play the best looking game available, 
 and that was Doom 3.
  By now the graphics aren't that revolutionary, but still manage to be excelent. And that's a lot 
 to say about, having games like FEAR, Oblivion and QUAKE4. The main issue with Doom 3 is not the 
 overal presentation, is the actual gameplay. For instance, Doom 3 make some great first impresion. 
 With terrific lighting, efects and textures with tremendous level of detail, but in the end it 
 gets pretty shallow by the gameplay stupid ideas that these guys come with.
  You play as a space marine tha has no name or identity. (You feel so atached to  
 I don't think so...) This space brutal boy goes to the mars base for first time working and surprise... 
 All suddenly goes to HELL... lyricaly.
  You play in the somewhat repetitive corridors with terrific guns tha sound like TOYS!!! killing 
 demons that make no resistance at all.
  The enemys are so easy to get scuached that is absurd that all the freaking mars base had been 
 destroyed.... and all your companions including the sargent of the troop are getting killed and 
 trasformed to zombies. But you play as some kind of es-que GOD troop man, that can carry 3000 weapons 
 in his invisible bag....
  Other thing that angers me is the lintern... lintern in the freaking year 2062454545... is completly 
 stupid, and weapons without light, or non termal or night vision seems over prepared to scare you...
 
  Enter the little robots that kill everything in his sight... They are 3000 times better than all 
 the freaking bosses... so Why the base is getting destroyed???
  
  The Good: Some good fights and scary times. When you look in the mirror and you get set on fire 
 is memorable as hell. Some enemies look terrific. And the final boss fight is hard and overall 
 a Blast. Incredible good visual presentation. The Bad: The lintern stuff, the PDA boring freaking 
 system to tell you the plot. Very little amount of brutal death secuences... Give me some MORE BLOOD!!! 
 Gameplay: Very fast paced shooting action will make you forget all the stupidity behind it. Some 
 good fights with bosses.
  
  Graphics: Nothing to say, they are just amazing...
  
  Sound: The atmosphere is great, and the screams as well. Some good vocal work. But the weapons 
 hear so unpowered that total bring down the sound.
  
  Value: Its a loong campaigning and overall entertaining and satisfactory. The online feature is 
 a total crap, but with the single player campaigning you will be good...
  
  Tilt: Well, hiding the greatness behind some huge wall of stupidity and idiotic ideas... Doom 3 
 is a good FPS, and you should play it if you are a fan of the saga, the FP shooters or the HELL 
 theme... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Doome 3 is the new Doom to its series altough it dosent have the sequel to doom2 but has a liitle 
 similar beggining sotryline to doom
  while many people now would say dude dont play doom yo play F. E. A. R well basicly fear came out 
 before doom and people dont seem to appreciate this descent game
  
  ok now lets talk about the AI well since this creatures are beast but their movements are very 
 ape like but yet their sense are strong
  now while its extremely hard to fight in some area cause its to dark
  and please the dark dosent 
 hardly even seem to scare me at all cause the only things that annoy me about the dark is i just 
 cant see and ususally enemy's will most likely crowl to the ciling or pop out to the side of the 
 wall but it only shocks me but dosent really scares me at all while those most enemys are strong 
 and chellenging some AI opponents are very well stupid in a manner 
  but the Hell Knight is very easy to defeat cause within a few shots should knock that freaking 
 **** hole down
  boss fights are challenging and frustrating at times to defeat them
  
  While the environgments are very hell like environments with all the writing s of pain but seriosly 
 i dont seem to see anything scary about the environments but the graphics engine are nice and creaters 
 look very demonic and deadly in a manner
  while the most nicely detailed is the Hell Knight he looks strong and deadly but i would say looks 
 can be deciving [i know i didnt spell that right] ,
  while the only creature that scares me is the baby but with a body of a fly and clawed hands
 
  
  while enemy sound are very spooky but overall that are one of the small things that scare me
 
  
  
  
  now altough i may like fear im not avecating that F. E. A. R is better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord455
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  I love Doom 1 and 2 but this is just lame. Even the people who rated it high complained a bunch, 
 why give it a high mark when your review clearly says mediocre. Graphics:
  The graphics look really good but most of the time 75% of the screen is black so its hard to appreciate 
 it. The darkness does pump the scary factor, but id went way overboard, I got sick of veiwing my 
 surroundings with the illuminated veiwing circle, aka flashlight real quick. You switch back and 
 forth from gun to that stupid flashlight a billion times non stop 24-7. They shoulda named it DOOM 
 3... attack of the flashlight .
  
  Sounds:
  Ambient sound is up there on my creepy list, all the moaning, screaming, thumping really starts 
 to freak ya out, bravo. The guns sound horrible though, like a your beating on a garbage can with 
 a spoon. and your boot steps... I ended up crouch walking just to shut em up. After 4 straight 
 hours of clip clop clip clop... omg make it stop. Theres no music which isnt so bad i guess, theres 
 plenty of disturbing ambient sounds to fill the gap. I liked that riff in the beginning, they should 
 put out a single lol.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is where the game seriously took a nose dive for me. The maps are boring, monotonous, way 
 too dark, and almost always cramped, like your traveling through some robot's intestines, one way 
 in, one way out and a whole lot of the same inbetween. They shoulda opened it up more often. The 
 guns are boring, especially during the 1st half of the game. So much for first impressions. The 
 cool secret places that I loved finding in doom 1 and 2 are gone. You dont need to find the keys 
 anymore, they were replaced by a pda (pretty dumb apparatus) . Now when theres a locked door or 
 chest you need to find the corpse laying near by, pick up their pda sift thru all there junk email 
 and audio entries, to gain their access or code to open / unlock. It would have been cool except 
 you have to remember everything or be forced to listen / read it all over again, and again... I'll 
 take the keys back. The demons from hell are not really from hell there just possessed people ya 
 saw earlier.. boring, ( I know 1 n 2 where sorta like that to) and most of the actual demons are 
 cyborgs, I had no idea hell was so advanced in robotics?!, wheres the cacodemons or the goat dudes, 
 this whole mechodemon thing is lame if you ask me. I heard it gets better at the end but after 
 the first half im not in any hurry to get there. Theres a story somewhere in there, the missions 
 kinda follow it but never catch up. You need to find a guy and bring him back, but cant, you need 
 to get back to HQ to hold the fort but your the only one there, you need to help the dudes in the 
 alpha labs but there all dead, just pda's laying everywhere. In fact pretty much all life on the 
 whole planet dies instantly once the gate opens, which happens right away and you dont even know 
 why, the story apparently is not for us to partake in, its just there somwhere. You hear everyone 
 else talkin about it but its old news by the time you get there. But enough of my ranting, lol.. 
 i didnt even play the whole game yet. If it keeps going the same way i doubt I ever will, good 
 thing i only paid 20 bucks.
  
  I liked the creepy sound effects, the graphics (when visible) are nice, the gore is ok but not 
 realistic. I laugh when you bash a corpse with your flashlight and its skin vaporizes off the bones 
 and the brain pops out (completely intact) then vanishes before your very eyes! Why cant you just 
 cave in a dudes head anyways! or turn em into mush. then come back and wade thru the gore.
  
  Theres more disappointment, but i think you get the jist of it.
  DOOM 3 is the worst of em, 
 best looking, but the worst.
  
  Not quite as bad a sequel as MOO3 or Heros of mm IV... I was so upset with those. After them I 
 refused o pay full price anymore. Just wait a 1/2 year. And the sick part is ya cant go off reviews 
 anymore. I still cant believe all the people who rated this (and others) so high. Then you actually 
 read their review and they say how the game was just ok? what the hee L is up with you foos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Well we all know one thing... Doom 3 looks really really pretty. It also sounds truely great. The 
 game is completely emersive in to the environment. When monsters pop out from around corners you 
 jump (or at leat I did) and then procede to shoot them in the face with a shot gun. The erie feel 
 of the game is complete, and provides a sence of forboding throughout the entire game. I would 
 have to say that this video game is scarrier than most scary movies.
  The gameplay itself, however, leaves something to be desired. It, quite honestly, doesnt stand 
 up to the previous Doom games. I have played them all a great deal and can say this with confidence. 
 It never really gets too hard, while there are some challenging areas, it never gets too bad. There 
 is also a distinct lack of secrete areas, I found what there is to be found, and I wish there were 
 more... I always liked the secrete areas in the other Dooms. It also gets a bit repetative.
  I dont want any of this to discourage the playing of this game. It is really very fun, and it is 
 totally emersive and spooky. Just dont expect it to make you good at shooters. Not to mention, 
 its really really cheap now. Pick it up some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunky85
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This game was good. The graphics were pretty much fantastic, if you have the system to handle stuff 
 at the highest setting. The game had a very good story line and had a very good ability to scare 
 the crap out of the user when the time was right. There were a lot of things that were very well 
 done like the scoring, the gameplay, the innovations in the game play, and the down right fun. 
 All of these things culminate very well to create a very addicting game. The controls were pretty 
 par for the course for a pc game and the variable sensitivity in the mouse was very nice. The game 
 had some very well thought out and beautifully designed characters. The maps are big enough to 
 get the trick done but not so massive that it takes you fifteen hours just to finish out one mission. 
 This game was pretty hard but it was fun all the same so it was worth the tireless effort to get 
 through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterch_sniper
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a good game but after going through the same hallway again and again and fighting the 
 same guys it does get a little boring. All your really doing is going through the same game as 
 Doom with some new graphics, and a deeper story. The addition of adding PDA's to the game was weired 
 because all it does is help you open storage lockers, and having to listen to speech logs to open 
 some gets boring. Another bad thing with Doom 3 is the Multiplayer. Even with the 1.3 patch it 
 only has about five maps, but the Xbox version does have co-op, at least. The graphics are good, 
 but they don't have a lot of hi resolution effects like soft-shadows and self-shadows, no Bloom 
 either, let alone HDR. There isn't even reflections in it.
  
  GOOD: The graphics are good and so is some of the gameplay and sound in the game
  
  BAD: Don't 
 expect much from the story or multiplayer, and there isn't a lot of graphical effects either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgately869
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  I'm going to make this review short but informative and easy to read.
  
  Gameplay: Reasonably good controls, very easy to get used to. You also have great amount of weaponry 
 to play arond withwhich makes the game alot more enjoyable. On top of that, there is a wide variety 
 of monsters, each of which will make you jump.
  
  Graphics: This is one of the games major strong points, the shadow and lighting effects are brilliant. 
 Each character and monster is beautifully rendered and looks very lifelike. The reason why it was 
 only 9/10 in tbhis section is because unless you are on ultra quality, the game does have a few 
 jaggies (rough edges on characters etc.)
  
  Sound: Absolute perfection, it sounds like each monster has about 10 different cries, all the way 
 through the game there is banging, metal clanging, all of which provides a great atmosphere and 
 will have you on the edge of your seat.
  
  Value: The games only flaw, once you complete it, I find that there is little incentive to play 
 it again.
  
  OVERALL:
  
  Pros: Great graphics, magnificent sond, intense bosses and tons of weapons which all come together 
 to give an unforgetable gaming experience.
  
  Cons: A few rough edges on the characters, slightly repetetive and no real incentive to play it 
 again unless you go on the harder difficulties
  
  Score: 8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaroStrile
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Sure the graphics and physics have improved, but the original doom is better in every way. If you're 
 playing this game, sure, you're going to get scared out of your mind, but who cares? It doesn't 
 keep your interest like Silent Hill.
  
  Gameplay: Just like any other shooter, point, shoot, hope you don't get killed. I've seen it before, 
 and much prefer Half-Life 2.
  
  Graphics: Yes, these are good. I've seen better, but they're good enough to give you a good scare. 
 My only problem is that it makes everybody in the game look completely ugly.
  
  Sound: A bunch of groaning from monsters. That's about all you'll hear. Sure, they talk every once 
 in a while, but mostly you will hear groaning.
  
  Value: Sure, you may play through it a couple times, but you'll find it boring after a while.
 
  
  Overall: I think that you should play the original over this, not only is it better, it's free. 
 There are plug-in's that allow you to play the original, I would recomend getting that to have 
 a good experience with this game. If you want a good shooter, go to Half-Life 2 instead, it's a 
 much better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is one of those games that lots of PC gamers were waiting for. And was it as good as I thought 
 it would be? Well, yes and no. Let me try to explain...
  First of all, I'd like to say that Doom 3 has some of the best, most detailed graphics ever. The 
 lighting effects are nice and realistic too. These graphics and effects give the game it's ace 
 atmosphere though the character's looks a bit chunky. I can run this game with the graphics on 
 high.
  The sound is also top-notch, with very ambient, eerie music to loud BANGS of guns and growls from 
 the demons and zombies. I want to say that the single-player - though not as fun as playing the 
 original Doom games - is what makes Doom 3 what it is. You play as that name-less marine who's 
 sent to the UAC base on Mars, but a gateway to hell is opened (or something) and you basically 
 have to work your way around the complex slaughtering any scum in your way. It's simple gamepley 
 for a new-ish game, but that's Doom for ya.
  The game has a horror theme to it, which gives the it an evil, dark mood to it. Unfortunately, 
 the game is too dark and you'll find yourself with your damn torch equiped when there are enemies 
 about. Anyway, I think the game tries a little too hard to be scary because, to be honest, the 
 only way it's scary is when you dont expect something. This however becomes predictable.
  It's downright boring and frustrating at times but there are some cool fun moments too however.
 
  Doom 3 is good single-player, but no where near as enjoyable as the old Doom games.
  So far, generally so good then. What about the multiplayer? This is where the game goes downhill 
 BIG TIME. You can deathmatch, team deathmatch and CTF. Which is OK, but the fact there are only 
 4 players for each match makes the multiplayer feel rushed and boring.
  If your looking for an FPS single-player, then I recommend Doom 3, but forget about it if your 
 looking for online. Any other points? Yes actually. This game is not half as action packed as the 
 original Doom games were, it feels more like a dumbed down version with better graphics and a horror 
 theme. BE WARNED: Doom 3 is actually better for those who have never played classic Doom or didnt 
 like it.
  Trust me, if you love classic Doom then prepare to be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arto1223
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  From the start, this game just wowed me. First off, the graphics. They are really beautiful. The 
 physics engine isn't that bad either. What sets this game apart from others though, is it's shear 
 scariness. The sounds in this game just get to you after a while. While I was playing it, any time 
 that my roommates would come in, they would scare the piss out of me. The atmosphere is just so 
 incredibly creepy. The game does a great job of making you feel like this is really happening. 
 There are plenty of easter eggs in the game, and the PDA system is a great way to relieve the level 
 of fear so that you can continue playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drpepper244
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is just great, there is a storyline but you don't really need to pay attention, the basic 
 idea of the game is VERY SIMPLE, you walk round with a variety of guns and shoot the **** out of 
 everything that moves.
  
  I love this game, i liked the other games that are in the series but this is just awesome plus 
 you have the option of multiplayer on a LAN or over the net, I have played both and have a good 
 laugh doing so. I'm not very good over the net but over a lan with people in the same house it's 
 great.
  
  If you get this game or you already have this gme make sure you download the Last Man Standing 
 Mod you can get for it. I love playing this and it gives the option to play multi-player co-op 
 missions which is the only real thing that is missing from the actual game itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  this game has everything, from lighting, to horror, and furturstic weapons at your disposal this 
 game could not be any sweeter, u start off as a marine and you are sent to go check up on the base 
 and how it is doing but then scientists unlock the portal to hell and you must stop them from taking 
 over (somthing like that i dont fallow stories well !) but this game is quite scary the first time 
 around , ppl who say i dident scream one time! are faking, u mignt not scream but ull jump from 
 time to time all in all this game is everything wrapped up into a 10/10, i enjoyed every single 
 moment of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B4thecrap
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is definitly a Doom fan's paradise. Fat zombies, blood, gore, and a new set of trousers. 
 The graphics look great down to every last detail. The sounds are as eerie as ever with all the 
 screams and moans you could want. Now on to the game itself. Most of the guns from all the previous 
 games are here: BFG, Chaingun, Shotgun, etc. The control for he guns is kind of clunky and could 
 someone please attach a f$#@ing light to the gun? Id, I know your trying add to the crepy aspect, 
 but it would be nice if I knew where I was fricking going. The frame rate has issues too, but it's 
 not that noteable. Once you get over the flaws this is a great game. The sound is great, with some 
 skilled voice acting, with not much of a story. The engaging battles with minions from hell is 
 unbeliveably fun. I pretty much recommend this to any Doom fan and anybody who would want a gory 
 first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinabotero2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 14, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  I am glad I bought this game. I remember how much I liked the Doom games on play station. And I 
 am an older woman; and would get really mad at my boys for never listening to me because they were 
 so into their games. Now they have had to learn to cook for themselves cause mom is on the computer 
 playing games (Doom 3 right now) !!!! Also everyone has to have their own computers in our house 
 cause mine is occupied. :) Now if I could just get through the Hell level; (which I am Stuck on 
 at the moment) ; then I could resume. I really do not like to use cheats!! Over all I am happy with 
 the doom series and will probably buy them all!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was a long awaited piece of work, and when it finally arrived, no one knew what to think. 
 I can honestly say Doom 3 to me is a masterpiece remake. Not many movies or games can pull off 
 a successful remake, but Doom 3 did. The Doom 3 engine is phenomenal. The visuals it can provide 
 as well as amazing frame rate works perfectly. Blood and bloom effects are a little over done, 
 but never the less they still look good. The sight of the blood can get annoying though. The audio 
 work is tremendous. Creepy quiet music. Firing noises all sound great with the exception of the 
 Plasma Gun. Enemies make some of the scariest moans and screeches you'll ever hear. Voice acting 
 is not bad suprrisingly. Most Id software games include voice acting that is so bad you want to 
 hurt yourself. But Doom 3 stears away from that. Doom 3's story is a bit dull however. It is a 
 remake, and a remake has to have a lot of new features, but you have to keep your bare basic in 
 there, and that's what they did for story. Proceed to hell and back with your life in tact. The 
 cut scenes can get dull as well. Though there aren't many of them, the few that exist in the game 
 are pretty lifeless. Most of them featuring a tragic incident and nothing else. I remember one 
 of the few earlier cut scenes in the game consisted of an aching ally of yours who gets a few bits 
 out and dies by the hands of a wraith. Oh yeah, that was a big helper in the story. The most enjoyable 
 factor to me about Doom 3 is the return of just about everything from the old Doom. The enemies, 
 bosses, weapons, and the BFG. You see everything in a new re-vamped form, emerged into Doom 3. 
 Even the stupid skeleton demons with rocket launchers have returned to Doom 3, though giving the 
 fact that Doom 3 has a bit more of a story than Doom, these skeletons seem cheesy. The game's difficulty 
 is kind of the same throughout the game. You start with easy enemies and crappy guns, and as you 
 get better guns, you get tougher enemies. Like I said, stays the same. The bosses aren't all that 
 much of a challenge with the exception of the cyber demon at the very end of the game. The saddest 
 thing is, if you think about it, as good as Doom 3 is, in the end it could probably be compared 
 to a Quake II duplicate with better graphics than the original Quake II. But that's only if you 
 even bothered with Quake II. Doom 3 is still a 1 of a kind masterpiece re-make IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riggs8595
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 10, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  this game is real fun, and i love it a lot because zombies and monsters are fun to kill right. 
 but the bad thing is, its hard. the monsters they have lots, and lots of health. and to me you 
 run out of ammo fast. and its dark alot, and when you pull out your flash light all you can do 
 is puch with it, you cant pull out your gun while you have your flaslight, which kinda sucks. but 
 to me this game is fun, but its a little to hard, but i like the game a lot. it kinda simlar to 
 fear the 2nd one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maswastage-BG
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 4, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay here is straight up old-school. It's you versus the army of Hell and that means a lot 
 of running and a lot of gunning, so don't expect anything sophisticated in that regard. Where Doom 
 3 shines is atmosphere. Doom is one of the most beautiful games ever created. The stunning graphics 
 coupled with excellent audio make this a very atmospheric game, so when you're surrounded by Imps 
 and fighting for your life, it really feels like it. The game will try to spook you often, by having 
 enemies break through the walls or dead corpses coming to life when you least expect it. And although 
 you'll quickly grow to anticipate these scare tactics, the game still has several jump-out-of-your-seat 
 moments. And in the end, Doom has never been as much about fear as about intensity. Bottom line: 
 if you're looking for a fast paced, atmospheric, and sometimes truly scary game, look no further. 
 This is classic FPS, with some tweaks of course, at its finest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelle_schepens
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  DOOM&sup3;, nice game, sweet gameplay, nice set of weapons, big enemy's, but a bit to dark, what 
 im consurned is that you have sweet levels but a bit to dark, it makes it lot's scarier, if you 
 play with dolby you WILL cr*p your pants because they sneak on to you and they come in front of 
 you and make you scare like hell, but in total it's a very nice game but i don't like that is dark, 
 i like to have a clear vision on my screen, you know, that you can see everything and stuff like 
 that, but it's nothing like doom&sup2; of doom 95, because those are 16-bit (or something ;-) )
 
  and doom&sup3; is very nice detailed huge maps with endless views, they made the maps look real 
 nice. sweet multiplayer to but it's a bit laggy because of the huge maps, the screenshots are in 
 another format to not .jpg or .bmp
  that's stupid to, but if you have photoshop or another graphical program you might convert it....
 
  
  upsides:
  - sweet graphics
  - nice set of weapons
  - nice maps
  
  downsides:
  - laggy multiplayer
  - to dark
  
  nothing much further to say, enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julioykaly
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  DOOM III it is just a blast from the past, from the first version release in 1993, DOOM. The same 
 guns, monsters, but yet a unique environments, scary dark atmosphere, and outstanding graphics 
 performance, (in a very good computer machine) makes this game a Halloween type fun game to play. 
 Although the multiplayer aint as great as I hoped it would be, DOOM III provides some outstanding 
 scary moments in single player action game. The action is still fast-pace as the previous id software 
 games, yet the game disadvantage is its very dark atmosphere. To top it of the flash-light and 
 the guns cant be used at the same time. Overall, if you want a blast from the past game that it 
 is still a bit scary and has fast-pace action fighting monster this is the game you want to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a game about almosts but not-quite's in just about every aspect. Despite that and all 
 it entails, it's indeed a very good game and one that needed to come out. Doom 3 brings something 
 new and refreshing to the FPS (first person shooter) genre: immersion in a scary way. It's not 
 a pee-your-pants scary, but it will definitely make you jump or twitch from time to time. In a 
 sea of FPS games, let's say we strip the name and creator of each and label it with a one-sentence 
 description that best fits the game. Doom 3 could easily be labeled science-fiction horror, not 
 recommended for those easily terrified or susceptible to nightmares/insomnia. And it would probably 
 be the only title on that particular shelf as well (though American McGee's Alice could be in a 
 nearby category for strange and deranged since Doom 3 has it's own) . Doom 3 is not the typical 
 FPS that people have been used to playing (even compared to previous versions of Doom) . You will 
 not have legions of enemies thrown at you nor will you be running wildly with guns blazing and 
 body parts flying (oh but there will be body parts though) . What you will experience is a game 
 that creates a mood which puts the player on edge and gives you the feeling that something lurks 
 behind every dark corner and hallway. Doom 3 achieves this with it's powerful graphics engine and 
 spectacular sound effects.
  
  The environments are highly detailed, textured, and they pay attention to light sources and lighting 
 effects. It's quite stunning watching the gameplay just to see how good the game looks. It looks 
 damn good. With the powerful engine, the creators find ways to show a disturbing environment in 
 true hellish fashion. Lights flicker on and off, gasping for power. Lamps and strobes will cast 
 a light that casts shadows properly. Corpses are intermittant, oftentimes found near blood-stained 
 floors (or walls, ceiling, depending on which direction the corpse was dragged or splattered) . 
 The enemies are quite life-like and in-your-face (if you let them get that close) . All the halls 
 and floors are highly detailed. If you haven't seen the movie Event Horizon it might be a good 
 time to watch that movie and enjoy it for what it's worth. Doom 3 reminds me of that with it's 
 depiction of chaos and destruction, especially toward the later parts of the game where it has 
 lots of blood, creepy, and twisted.
  
  The sound actually plays more of a role in this horror game than the graphics and it's meant to 
 be played with 5.1 surround speakers too. All the ambient sounds in the background from the hisses 
 and clanks of machinery, to the groaning walkways, anguished cries of help echoing in the distance, 
 unearthly sound of footsteps, and low growls around or behind you, puts the player in a slight 
 state of paranoia. You think there is something coming after you and you're not quite sure from 
 where. Whether it's the questionable footsteps, or whispered voices, or something inexplicable 
 entirely, you get tuned into the game and react just as much from the sounds as to what you actually 
 see happening. As an added effect, the game has data-disks that can be found, which sometimes contain 
 important information though most of the time they do not. But what they all do contain are voice 
 recordings of the owner (obviously dead) , emails to and from workers in the facility, or both. 
 The voice recordings are done fantastically and add a good something to the game's environment. 
 Sometimes they are casual banter, gripes about the job, or concerns about the mental states of 
 others on the base. The player will often pick one up and listen as it talks about strange occurances 
 in the facility, or about bad things happening with no real explanation, or accidental deaths. 
 As the game progresses we get to learn more about what is really happening behind the scenes as 
 we find data-disks from more important people. But the entire time we get a sense dread and helplessness 
 the makes the player feel mostly alone in a very dark, dangerous place.
  
  The gameplay is where Doom 3 gets a little weak. If you strip away the sound and the graphics you'll 
 end up with a very simple and very bland game. Run, point, shoot, turn, etc. The AI isn't very 
 bright at all, though they are persistent. I found a few cases where they wouldn't cross through 
 a doorway and I was able to blast them without them returning fire. One doesn't get to lay prone, 
 crawl, or lean around corners, but for this type of game it isn't necessary at all. There isn't 
 much room for strafing and dodging and rockets for most of the game, but those who aren't crying 
 about it are backpedaling or ducking around corners properly. The game starts to feel a little 
 repetitive once the player gets a hang of the surprises. Even with the mood of the game, you'll 
 find that Doom 3 will throw cheap scares at you, and eventually some of them get predictable. Predictable, 
 like a suspicious feeling when you see a new weapon, powerup, dark corners, or just the feeling 
 it seems about that time again . There are many who get irritated that certain events will trigger 
 enemy spawning (picking up a certain item, moving past a certain point in a room, activating a 
 console, etc) near or behind you, especially after you cleared that area. Some people feel that 
 it's cheap for that type of spawning, even though it was common for Doom 2 and we accepted it back 
 then. But Doom 3 wasn't really meant to be some new revolutionary gameplay. It was meant to be 
 Doom 2, but to scare the pants off of you with an awesome graphics engine to google your eyes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeroshift
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Doom. Good old Doom had brought a revolution of games back several years ago. But as for Doom 3, 
 it really brought the exact same thing as Doom with slight gameplay enhances, spectacular graphics 
 and good sound. However, it doesn't bring anything new to the table to which it could've been an 
 innovative shooter. But still good, no doubt about it.
  
  Doom's story is simple. You play as a nameless marine who fights to survive from the monsters that 
 had attacked the Mars Space Station. As for its gameplay, there really isn't much to say other 
 than it's just like playing an advanced version of the first Doom. The action sequences really 
 don't give you much of a thrill as you'd get from other shooters. Although it has good moments 
 from time to time, the action gets repetitive and the scary sequences (e. g. monsters jumping at 
 you in surprise) become very predictable after the first 1-2 hours of playing. The gameplay is 
 a very low point in the game that really just wasn't all that entertaining.
  
  However its graphics and sound was pretty well done. Although the graphics are demanding, they 
 are worth looking at because that are just simply flawless in every way. The bumping is well done, 
 the dark and creepy atmosphere was great, and the model detail was astounding. The sound has great 
 voice acting, great music, but it was just some of the gun sound effects like the shotgun that 
 were flawed. Still good nonetheless.
  
  Doom 3 is worth playing, although with a bad multiplayer it has a good amount of single player 
 value to go around for a good while. But other than that, the game just was dissapointing overall 
 to the point to you ask this is what the hype was about? It's not a bad game, but it still had 
 room for more. Lots more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carrotmaster
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  Doom 3's graphics were revolutionary at the time and as a result are competent today. The lighting 
 and shadowing system is better than many recently released games, and goes a long way towards creating 
 mood and atmosphere with spooky moving or long shadows and flickering lights. Doom 3 does have 
 graphical flaws that were fixed in games based on the same engine like Prey and Quake 4, such as 
 textures that look like plastic and cone heads caused by low polygon counts. Nevertheless, the 
 graphics are impressive, especially considering how the age of the game. Doom 3's gameplay is simple 
 to the previous games in the series, consisting of simple, straightforward shooting, copious hordes 
 of enemies, and finding key cards and unlocking doors. There's nothing wrong with all of this, 
 but the previous games in the series did it better. Doom 3 is far less challenging than Doom 1 
 or Doom 2. The number of enemies you face is far less than in Doom 1 or Doom 2. All of the bosses, 
 with the exception of one, were wimps. The game also drags on a little towards the end with long 
 levels that require frequent backtracking, but these aren't as annoying as the vehicle campaigns 
 in Half Life 2 and are made up for by the levels that follow. Doom 3 does give you some good scares 
 and one level in particular, Hell, was terrifying. The game's PDA system is brilliant. PDA's are 
 fun to read and listen to, adding humor to the game as well as fleshing out the story indirectly. 
 It always feels good to whip out the PDA when I need to take a little break from the action. Some 
 people complain about the lack of a gun-mounted flashlight, but I wan't bothered at all. The flashlight 
 never needs recharging like in so many other games. Almost every enemy either has glowing eyes, 
 throws glowing fireballs, shoots a gun that has a big, bright muzzle flash, allowing you to see 
 them even in pitch darkness. The enemies will follow you if you run to a brighter area. And if 
 you really can't take having a flashlight seperate from the gun, you can always download the Duct 
 Tape mod. (It puts a flashlight on your gun, in case you haven't figured it our already)
  
  What makes Doom 3 a great value are the mods and level packs - Doom 3 has a collection of mods 
 that many other games don't have. Some of the better-known include Classic Doom 3 (a remake of 
 Doom 1 using the Doom 3 engine) , the award-winning Doom 3 Last Man Standing Co-op mod, and In Hell. 
 These mods and more that I haven't mentioned include hours of new content and are fun to play because 
 they've improved on Doom 3's gameplay. Besides the large mods and levelpacks, Doom 3 seems to have 
 more mini-mods than other games that can do everything from improving the graphics to making the 
 game more difficult.
  
  Doom 3 is an old game, but it still has competent graphics. Although it doesn't have perfect gameplay, 
 it's cheap because of its age and has a ton of mods that add replay value and content to the game. 
 If you're looking for a great value, pick up Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo666_eg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  To be honest this game deliver all what fps fan needs ,from grfx ,sound, gameplay ,story..... this 
 one is a master piece but...
  It misses some thing..
  ___
  Doom3 was released in 2004 in the same time or after half-life 2
  what i want point at is that 
 idsoft make a little big mistake which is
  they didnt benefit from half-life 2 experience in also combining Doom3 with physics effects system 
 like the one in half-life 2.. which i really enjoyed this effects much like many peaple did feel 
 that in halfe-life2 this physics could make a very big diffrence in doom3 and its rating as well 
 ,and in that time doom had an advatege which is its grfx that was very stuning and it can beat 
 half-life 2 score, but the stupid ai system and the apsense of physics made halfe life 2 score better.
 
  
  if those things where present in doom 3 i coulde gave this game 10
  but in the end this game is the most scary spooky game i have ever played
  and that was doom 
 good at really and it have a nice story as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Since it defined (yes, I said defined, not invented) the first person shooter genre, Doom has become 
 the household name in what the average shooter fan is looking for in a great title. Doom 3 had 
 plenty of hype generated before it was released, and for the most part delivers in all areas. Is 
 it perfect? No, but then given how the fps has evolved to appeal to more diverse tastes, expecting 
 it to have everything would be a little too much to ask. Ultimately, everything you expect is here, 
 and in many ways it still has ways to suprise you, even up to the end.
  The story hasn't changed. You're a space marine on mars, and a gateway to hell is opened, so it 
 is up to you to battle your way to the end, seal the hole, and get out alive. Yeah, there are some 
 attempts at plot twists, but for the most part, the story in this kind of shooter is only secondary 
 anyway. What the game lacks in ongoing narrative, it totally makes up for in atmosphere. This game 
 is engineered to scare the pants off of you, and it thouroughly does this over and over. While 
 in some ways the spook-house, jump out and scare you thing gets over played by the end, you never 
 feel safe at any time, and that is something to be said. Lets break it down right quick:
  
  Graphics: The game is gorgeous. It redefined what was needed from a high end machine when it was 
 released, and it still holds its own years after release. If you can run it on high settings, the 
 fire looks hot, the demons are detailed and fast, and everything has a great style. Yes, for 75% 
 of the game you stroll up and down dimly lit hallways, but even then, you never get totally tired 
 of what is around the next corner. Stages are cleverly laid out, for the most part, and they do 
 give enough variety through scenes of carnage and occult to keep things fresh and intense. Hell 
 is especially well laid out, and your adventures there, no matter how short, are a visual feast.
 
  Audio: The weapons effects do a great job of giving them weight. The shotgun blast never gets 
 old. The voice acting is done well enough, especially the voice messages left by dead employees 
 that generally flesh out the ongoing story set the mood of being in an experiment gone wrong. Sound 
 effects are well produced and provide the right amount of emphasis without getting hammy. Most 
 ongoing sounds are atmospheric, as there is no soundtrack that runs throughout the game, and that 
 is just as well. The sounds of screaming in the next room and demon growls do what they should; 
 scare the hell out of you.
  Gameplay: Controls are tight and responsive. The weapons selection is just right, with all of the 
 classics updated and visually impressive. Light is always at a premium and you are constantly using 
 your flashlight to move through one dark room after another. At first, this really makes things 
 tense, as you can never be sure you are alone. Zombies can creep right up beside you, making you 
 need new underpants every now and then. But after the fourth level or so, you kinda get over it 
 enough to wish you could just see what you are shooting. And that is were this game stumbles. You 
 basically move from one room to another, monsters jump out at specific spawn points, bang, bang, 
 you move on. After a while, you just start running into the rooms, trigger the baddies, and then 
 take cover. While the gameplay keeps it simple (not alot of jumping puzzles, no cover mechanic, 
 ect.) the simplicity lets the level designers put you right where they want you. Enemies are vicious 
 and tenacious, and while you will never have more than half a dozen at you at once, they rarely 
 just run right at you. For the most part, you will find yourself giving many rooms more than a 
 couple of goes until you figure out just the right way to get through, but that is what quicksave 
 is for. Over-all, the AI seems about right for the undead.
  
  If you are searching for a game that totally revolutionizes the genre and teaches you something 
 new... play it anyway. This is a great example of a fps with a mission that does more than accomplish 
 its goal; plenty of action, lots of tension, and more than a couple of scares. Play with the lights 
 off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Long game which has beautiful graphics and is kind of scary. Lots of weapons to choose 
 from. Some levels are well designed, voice acting and music is decent. Monsters are truly stunning 
 and weapon damage looks awsome. The game offered me around 20 hours of gameplay as i found it quite 
 hard. The Bad: Repetitive level design, can get quite boring at times. The spider creatures are 
 very strong and get very annoying. Frame rate isn't the best and doesn't really offer much replay 
 value.
  
  Ok game which is a fun shooter that i would recommend to everybody. It may not be amazing, but 
 its quite unique thrill ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  people were expecting a hell of a lot from this game, as was I, and because its a slight disappointment 
 it seems like this game has failed completely. However, this game is a technical masterpiece. The 
 graphics are superb, the sound atmospheric and the presentation is fantastic. But the thing that 
 matters the most is the thing that disappoints in this game: the gameplay. Although the gameplay 
 is fine (shooting monsters feels nice and meaty) , the repetitivness of it all really starts to 
 drag at about the half way point. At the beginning of the game, you are scared **** of anything 
 and everything as you walk around the dark, lonely locations, enjoying the bumps in the night. 
 But soon, you start to get tired of the 'monster jumping out from shadow' formula that is used 
 constantly throughout the whole game. If this was just another FPS to hit the market, and not the 
 sequel to a pure classic that defined a whole genre, I feel this would have been praised a hell 
 of a lot more. The Good - Great graphics - Makes you jump for the first half of the game - Lengthy 
 single player
  
  The Bad - Environments could do with some variety (see FEAR) - You get bored of the jumping for 
 the last half - Repetitive single player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamodizzo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  The game is tremendously scary, you might think otherwise but I when I loaded that thing I played 
 in the dark with a 5.1 Logitech system using a Audigy 2 sound card and graphics maxed out! The 
 month it came out I bought it!, played it for 4 scary nights! I loved it, had my system blasted 
 way up and had my sons watch and help me out on some of the tactical moves I need to make to complete 
 a mission... From the when I had to run back from the lab were everything started to go crazy to 
 the end of the game, I was captivated by it's 3d realism! A great escape into the now Fear type 
 gaming! FEAR offers allot more but it was truely one of my first, WTF is this experience in Gaming! 
 Great fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedy_3000
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 1, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  i had more fun with the old virson though Doom 3 is a tense shocking game the visuals are amazing 
 with the real life like shadows that fill the rooms and the darkness and moving lights show the 
 dynamism of the invoroment which made me stiffen. though overall this game isnt as good as people 
 make out, i think it was mostly populer because of the new type grah's.
  
  the sound is sooo creepy but this along is almost the main and only thing that really got the shivers 
 up me so this is really the only frightenign thing about Doom 3. but others may find that things 
 like blood stained walls, faint whispers, creaking scenery and the odd time you have visions that 
 could scare the crap out of most people that creat the real tension.
  
  this game is mostly fun and most would think nicely violent, but overall its still the same idear 
 about kill stuff, walk around, find door code, kill stuff, open door, walk around, kill loads more 
 stuff, die, then be resareted. fine if your a die hard fan of that stuff then your sweet.
  
  all in all a tense shoot 'em up, loads of ugly bad guys, easy to injoy for the older time players 
 i think :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayur_digitized
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  Before its release, it was said that DOOM 3 is going to revolutionise FPS scenario in terms of 
 graphics and gameplay. But other than being the creepiest game and visually attractive, its nothing 
 more. Gameplay becomes monotonous after a few levels and u just want it to get over as you become 
 bored after a few levels. Graphics is great but I liked Far Cry's graphics better. The levels are 
 rather long and storyline unnecessarily stretched. Barring the final boss, the other bosses and 
 enemies are easy to beat even at hard settings. 1 thing that stands out is the scary atmosphere 
 and creepy sound. It will sometimes make you jump out of your seat. But even that becomes monotonous 
 towards the end. A game which should be tried only if you are a great fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laggylad2
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  When I played Doom 3 I could not help but be amazed by the engine's capability's and how life like 
 the environments and characters were with all the dynamic lights flickering scripted sequences 
 that sometimes tried to make you crap yourself and an overall gritty atmosphere a life on mars 
 .
  
  Sadly I feel that the engine is all thats going for the game really, the theme of something going 
 wrong in a research lab and monsters take over has been done before remember half life, some of 
 the monsters are quite interesting where as others arent in many areas of the game you feel that 
 they are tossed right infront of you only to be riddled by some form of weaponry which can get 
 a bit tedious especially when experiencing a low framerate.
  
  The Hero is a man of few words just like the main character on Grand Theft Auto 3 who often stumbles 
 in on conversions with high up shareholders armed with BFGs vaporising anything in there way. The 
 main story is that you have come to mars as a soldier who would serve under a Sergeant Kelly, you 
 are sent way down under the surface to investigate the disappearance of a scientist to find out 
 what he has discovered and literally all hell breaks loose with spirits that posses workers and 
 soldiers who would soon show up to greet you with a heavy blunt object or a hail of bullets and 
 you journey through some of the weirdest atmosphere's ever seen in a game.
  
  So I would say that I appreciate the game because of the effort gone into making the levels and 
 environment, but it is sadly let down because of the unoriginality of the story and some annoying 
 elements overall I give this game 7.4 because it is in no way a bad game It was just let down by 
 a few things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encell
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 30, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  Atmosphere: Doom 3 is full of it. This is a tense game with plenty of shock tactics at its disposal 
 and one you ceratinly wouldn't want to play alone at night with the sound turned up. Success for 
 the developers I think.
  
  Visuals: The look of Doom 3 is distinct: spectacular real time shadows fill the world with darkness 
 and moving lights show the dynamism of the environment. However, the game engine is not as good 
 as people make out; texture and model quality is not as good as it could be and without the detailed 
 bump mapping this games visual quality would fall behind Far Cry's at almost every level. One could 
 almost say the visuals are crude and rather ugly (just look at the jagged model edges, self shadowing 
 and blurred textures) compared to lesser games .
  
  Sound: Ambient creepyness and all that, its high quality stuff and is probably the only really 
 frightening thing about Doom 3. Forget blood stains on the wall, faint whispers and creaking scenery 
 create the real tension.
  
  Gameplay: Its fun and nicely violent, but the formula is old: kill stuff, walk around, find door 
 code, kill stuff ,open door, walk around... You know, its just not the revolution we thought it 
 would be.
  
  Verdict: A tense shoot 'em up, there is a lot of bad stuff to say about this game but you can't 
 help but love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 26, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't looking forward to this game, so I definately wasnt expecting much. There is no storyline 
 in Doom 3, or not one that makes any sense to anyone.
  
  Lighting effects were well done (which little light there was) , but the game is too dark everwhere. 
 Making everything dark annoyed the hell out of me. It hurt my eyes, whos bright idea was it to 
 add extra suck making it 99% darkness.
  
  The game engine was really clunky. I expected being able to do more than just shoot and hit people 
 with a flashlight. Halo beats the game down in gameplay quality. Theres no vehilcles to drive, 
 there isnt anything to do in this game thats fun. Also the rooms are small and tight with always 
 a linear path. Still finding keys to open doors, what year is this? I played this game for 7 hours 
 or so before just getting to bored to continue. iD proves again they are lazy and cant make anything 
 but a boring game. This game is similar to the poor quality gameplay from Farcry. Doom 3 is a waste 
 of money and hard drive space. Quake 4 is just as terrible, but people already know that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naryanrobinson
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  i was completely blown away by this game. the graphics are second to none and the sound is very 
 good too. The monsters fit the levels well and are easy to take out if you know what to do and 
 have the right weapon. Near the end, the game does get very tough and the levels get very, very 
 dark. It's a pity the way you can't take out a torch and a weapon at the same time though. The 
 game is very closed and one way meaning that you play the game as it is meant to be played without 
 any variation, this can become a bit tedious after a while but it's alright. Apart from that and 
 the near impossible difficulty near the end, the game is absolutely incredible. i would recommend 
 this game to anyone who has a powerful enough computer. I have a 3.5 GHz computer with a pretty 
 up-to-date graphics card. I knew this would be able to play it but i also know it is hard to run. 
 But if you can run it, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohver
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  This is a game that has revolutionized gameplay and given rise to many other games based on the 
 very engine this game uses. The gmae takes place on Mars, where you play as a marine. The graphics 
 are simply awesome, no words to describe them. The labs, facilities all have a futuristic look 
 and do look great. Most of the game takes place in closed, dark corridors, which is the main theme 
 of the game. Enemies tend to make you jump out since its dark and you have a measly flashlight 
 to bettle the darkness. Flashlight and any weapon cannot be wielded at the same time, which is 
 a pro as well as a con in the game. It does make the gameplay interesting though. There are various 
 enemies in the game, all resembling, or rather evolved forms of the enemies in the original doom 
 games. They range from the lowly zombie to the powerful Cyberdemon. Weapons are evolved too, though 
 you will remember most of them if you've played the original series. Theres the chainsaw, the mini-gun, 
 the BFG, all with a new look and fell, which is good. The sound plays a very important part in 
 the game since you will have to rely on your ears most of the time. The sound is very well done 
 fortunately. Each enemy has a distinct sound and the weapons share the same trait. Overall, sound 
 is great. Doom 3 is a game that is a must have if your pc can run it well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumbayay
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Holy crap, this is one of the greatest games I have ever played. When i first played this game, 
 it scared the living crap out of me on high volume. I tell you right now, don't do what that sheet 
 inside the box tells you (lock your door, close your lights and turn up your volume) . It's dark 
 and crazy enough in this game as it is! Great graphics and sound really pulls you into the game. 
 The graphics and sounds are so good that it actually looks and sounds like reality in its own way, 
 but more futuristic. Definitely worth your money if you are a fan of the old dooms or plainly just 
 love shooting and gore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morlune
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 20, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Where are the variations? There are non! The themes are all the same through the whole game. There 
 really isn't any story. There are too few monsters, and all the battles feels the same. This game 
 could have been great, but it just isn't! Unfortunately..
  
  The story is another weak part of the game. There is no story. Or, it is, but nothing we haven't 
 seen a million times before. So.. Is the game scary? No! It might actually make you jump a few 
 times, but thats it. There isn't any really creepy scenery or anything like that to add to the 
 excitement. The only reason to play this game is because of it's amazing graphics and sound! To 
 some these factors might be enough to actually make the game fun. To me, it wasn't : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElendilElessar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  Ever since the first Doom came out in late 1993, it introduced a well balanced game with as first 
 person perspective. After the end of the first official game, another sequel of Doom came from 
 the shelves of stores to the players, after the previous year. Then in 2004, id Software made this 
 astounding sequel, Doom 3, as truly as it predecessors, this game is the best seller in 2004. As 
 in the previous games, Doom III is an edge-of-your-seat fps that will keep your heart pounding 
 Story: Like most of the previous Doom games, you play as a nameless, voiceless, 22nd century marine 
 that was called by the Union Aerospace Corporation research facility. Along side with Swan and 
 his faithful bodyguard, you must investigate what is going on in this research facility. When you 
 receive orders from your captain, and after you finally reached your objective, the scientists 
 were unable to keep the Hell Gate closed. So the monstrosities appear before you, beginning to 
 take over UAC personnel and security guards bodies to wreak havoc over you and the facility. As 
 the game progresses, you will learn how to rid the terror and go to hell to end this.
  
  Gameplay: At the Beginning, when the gates of hell are not opened, you can interact with UAC personnel, 
 computers, and security guards that will sometimes have some humour in them, giving directions 
 to your objective or give you information about this facility. After the second cinematic, you 
 will receive personal data assistant or PDA that will be very useful as you progress in the game. 
 This PDA can download information from computers and get email and voice recordings from other 
 PDA you encounter. This device will help you unlock chests of the UAC personnel to get health packs, 
 armor pieces or ammo for your guns and unlock doors. The bad thing about these personal data assistant 
 is that you can't use these when you're being attacking by hell spawns. After the objective mission 
 commerce, you will receive your first gun and other stuff like your suit of armor and flashlight 
 which is very weird because why arent the flashlights attached to the guns, after all, it is the 
 22nd and why your marine buddies are getting killed so easily when you are having a good time blasting 
 demons, but that doesnt matter.
  
  As the game progresses, you will sometimes hear your captain speaking. Other times, you will hear 
 the screams of your partners who are being ripped apart by demons. Like the previous games, you 
 will wield some weapons that are well known to the Doom series, like the infamous chainsaw, plasma 
 rifle, chain gun and shotgun. Much later in the game, you will discover some UAC personnel that 
 survive the onslaught of the hell demons and help you go to hell to stop this once and for all.
 
  
  In this game, you will encounter hell demons, monsters and such as imps, possessed personnel and 
 security guards, maggots, floating heads, hellish spider-like creatures, hell demons and those 
 fat hell creatures that you encounter some parts of the game. The AI is kind of incessant because 
 these hell spawns, either attack you back or front by creating portals and appearing before you 
 which makes situations kind of hard or annoying in any standpoint of the game. This game also includes 
 astounding boss fights to the test labs of alpha and delta to hell where you face the demons who 
 created this hell spawns, some of them included, the mutated Sergeant Kelly that is your captain 
 early on the game. The game will definitely last between 15-20 hours depending on what mode you 
 are on. After you have beaten this game, you will unlock the nightmare difficulty were it is darker 
 and you are constantly lose health every time, even when you aren't facing your hell enemies.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics looked totally impressive and revolutionary. The models of both humans and 
 hell spawns looked real if you have a high video graphics card and other recommended requirements. 
 Every single layer of detail is fully polished and well done by the designers of id software and 
 looks like one of the games out now, but some say that this game doesnt look like a current game. 
 As for the environments, they look totally extravagant as you venture in through the alpha test 
 labs to the abominable dark world of hell. Also the weapons you wield throughout the game looks 
 impressive and sometimes it looks a bit ugly. The soul cube for example, is the best looking weapon, 
 in my opinion. Games like Fear and Condemned are mostly similar in graphics because of the scary 
 environments and psychotic people.
  
  Audio: Both the sounds and music are either creepy or fascinating at any standpoint of the game. 
 The music is very good, especially the main theme. Music is rarely heard in the game and they are 
 not scary music as excepted. The sound plays a large role in inducing fear in the players. Throughout 
 the game, you will hear ambient sounds of imps and another hell spawns taunting and scaring you 
 in battle, sounds of summoning, computers beeping in the alpha test labs and other environment 
 sounds as you encounter later on. For the weapon sounds, some of them sound kind of lame, like 
 the plasma rifle and some of them sounds great, like the machine gun and chainsaw. The voice acting 
 sounds half decent in the beginning of the game to the anonymous voice recordings that will help 
 you open doors and chest. Replay Value: After when you have beaten the game, like I said before, 
 you can unlock the nightmare mode. This mode is extremely harder than any other modes which courage 
 you to try to avoid enemy attacks and also are needed to conserve your ammo. Value: When this game 
 was released in late 2004, it was cost about 50-69 Canadian dollars, but right now its about 20 
 dollars. But no matter if its cheap or not, if you're an fps fan or doom fans, this game is recommend 
 to all of them.
  
  Story: Unlike the previous games, this game doesn't continue on the story and lets just say both 
 of those games' stories didn't exist. The game's storyline are written by science fiction authors 
 that were hired by id. While the gameplay is astounding, the storyline delivers a durative atmosphere 
 that grabs the player attention. In this game, you play as a nameless marine that was shipped from 
 earth to the UAC facility in mars, along with Director Swan and his bodyguard. You were first assigned 
 by Sergeant Kelly to do a small objective, but it turns out that one small objective becomes one 
 big, one. As the hell gate opened and demons started to come out and turning everyone in the UAC 
 facility into zombies, as well as some hacker, breaching into to computers, so the survivers can't 
 excess the computers. You then discover that, there is an ancient civilization that were in danger 
 because of the demons invading their world and you soon discover that they look the same as Humans. 
 Tilt: I personally liked the ambient sounds and the story was so miraculous at any perspective 
 of this game. Some people say that this game sucks but I bet they never played this game.
  
  Overall: This game is truly one of the best games out there. Whether you are a horror fan or 
 not, you will enjoy it even when the next-gen consoles are released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princerouse122
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is sort of a remake of the original Doom that was a hit back in 93. You are a nameless 
 space marine who has been assigned to a dangerous job on Mars. Youve been assigned to a job to 
 find the missing scientist. But after you found him, all hell breaks loose.
  
  Gameplay: Shoot anything that moves except innocent people (that are pretty much already dead) 
 and ask questions later. You can also interact with computers as well. When you look at a computer, 
 the crosshair changes into a mouse courser. The enemies also appear often behind you so by any 
 chance you went through a corridor; there is a high chance youll be turning around, just to see 
 a monster.
  
  Graphics: This is probably the highest point in the game. The graphics are beyond amazing. However 
 the game is also dark so youll be using that flashlight over and over again
  
  Sound: The voice acting is pretty good, but the weapons sound underpowered (with an exception of 
 the chainsaw) and the mostly hear the Doomguys footsteps. (Can he walk quieter than that?)
  
  Value: the games worth a shot. But the multiplayer is kinda bland.
  
  Overall: The game 
 is a great game, and youll enjoy it if you are a doom fan. But the game is not as fun as the classic 
 used to be. HOWEVER: there is a real remake of the classic doom called Classic Doom 3. Youll find 
 it here: http://cdoom. d3files. com
  
  But you'll nee Doom 3 to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerBD89
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  I've beaten the game from start to finish and this is by far one of the best single player games 
 ever, way better than the generic storyline of Halo and Halo 2. Not to metion this game sometimes 
 scares the s**t out of you, when there are monsters that jump out of no-where and attack you. If 
 you like gorry fps, that are scary then this is the game for you. But the multiplayer needs more 
 to it, the adver is oright but it would be more fun if you could use vehickles online, or have 
 a bigger maps to fight in. I also think they should of encorporated co-op mode for this game lke 
 they did on the Xbox version, cuz its more fun to battle demons from hell with a buddy ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john1231
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I bought doom 3 awhile ago, and to be honest, I thought at first it was completely generic (if 
 thats the right way to say it) Mostly you run around shooting things like all the other great fps, 
 occasionally getting scared half to death by a cutscene or a monster jumping out of nowhere. But 
 otherwise it is rather bland. The graphics are awesome of coarse as everyone knows, but that doesn't 
 save the game too much. In fact, there is one big this that saves the game: mods. This game is 
 very moddable, you can practically change the whole game with enough modding work. Mods fix most 
 problems anyone could possibly have with this game, so it suits anyone. Like RPG style games? There 
 is a mod called dungeon doom that transforms it into one! Like the old school doom and want it 
 to have the same graphics? That has been done too! There are hundreds of mods for the game, so 
 if you start getting bored of doom 3's gameplay, then download a mod and start playing again for 
 a new experience! I was surprised most reviews of this games I read never even mention this excellent 
 feature, so I decided to do it, because I am a modder myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bharrison911
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 12, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Like most shooters, there are only so many things that you can do wrong and lets face it. Id already 
 had a great thing to start off with. They just needed to make sure that they didn't screw it up 
 and they didn't.
  
  The action, graphics, and sounds were absolutely incredible. It stayed true to all of the previous 
 games and definitely started a new era of action games in my opinion. If there was one place that 
 I would say they needed to improve, that was the storyline. I like an action that will keep me 
 gripped to the screen because I want to know what is going to happen next. This one does not do 
 that. It is entertaining, but the storyline is just not there. Look to Half-Life 2 or F. E. A. R if 
 you want storyline with your action.
  
  Aside from that, everything else was great. The action was good, the graphical detail was fantastic 
 and there were never any problems with any of it. No glitches or weird sound affects. Great Job 
 Id 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrbongos
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  Oh the days spent, wondering, waiting for a game with Zombies that will truly scare me. Conker's 
 Bad Fur Day? Nada... Resident Evil? Hardly. The zombie-esque things in Silent Hill? Creepy but 
 not scary... So I finally get my filthy, filthy, hands on a computer with the balls to run Doom 
 3. For as many of us know, the sheer level of ball power required by Doom 3 is rather daunting. 
 Serious ballage. Balls balls balls balls balls; there its out of my system. This moment, when the 
 money passes from me to the clerk, and the game from the store to my afore mentioned filthy, filthy, 
 hands... shall for me and others who know me be known as My Most Hillarious Good/Bad Idea Ever. 
 Why is this? Zombies. Slathering, stumbling, limping, drooling, head biting, bastards from beyond 
 the grave. I've been watching horror flicks since I was 5 and my dad let me watch The Exorcist. 
 Werewolves, aliens, drooling beasts, hell spawn in Event Horizon, the guys from Dark City, the 
 bitey hammer headed things from Pitch Black... bring it on. Zombies though, they freak me out. 
 So when I heard of this remake of the original doom, I wondered if the Zombies will still be there, 
 or if I shall be under siege by Imp and Pinky after Imp and Pinky... To my delight and chagrin, 
 I find that zombies still persist in this game. Delight because I like the classics... Chagrin 
 because these damn things freak the hell out of me. AND THEY ARE EVERYWHERE Blood drooling, gap 
 jawed, dead eyed, stumbly, groan-ey, bite-ey zombies. And while there aren't overwhelming hoardes 
 they wait until the damn flashlight hits them, or until you're just past them before they reach 
 out and bite you on your poorly armored ass. The first time I played, the music, the environment, 
 the darkness, the screams of other Marine squads on the radio, the creepy ass laughter, and the 
 first 5 Zombies I had to save and quit, then go and watch some cartoons to get calmed down. Call 
 me a wuss, call me a pansy. I don't care. I've not even finished the damn game yet, but I'm remaining 
 dedicated, and I'm working at it, but this game delivers on a level I've never expected from a 
 game since Max Payne 2. The pitch black environs, the groans and slurping sounds that permeate 
 the walls, and ever the signs of creatures and victims that have passed before your arrival, leaving 
 you with sights of blood soaked floors and chunks laying about... and not a few bodies whom you 
 are left to consider shooting in the head a couple times to make sure they're in fact truly dead.
 
  
  The monsters are another thing entirely. The fact that you can see them in part by how the moisture 
 on their skin reflects light realisticly... and then they open, or turn, their eyes towards you. 
 I aimed my flashlight into a corner and screamed out loud when one of them slammed against the 
 glass seperating me from it, and it was drooling for crying out loud. I could see the drool dripping 
 out of it's mouth and the wet spots where it hit the glass. I considered just peeing myself and 
 eatting the machinegun barrel at that moment. The fact that some of the NPCs who are still alive 
 in the game are oblivious to what is going on is one of the most amazing parts, the fact that they've 
 been left alone in a show of intelligence for the scripted characters working towards forwarding 
 Hell's goals, leaving crucial workers alone so that they don't need to worry over if the facility 
 will blow up before they can launch their master plan. That in and of itself is a sign that the 
 writers at ID really put some forthought into what they were doing here, rather than just having 
 everyone zombified or slaughtered for you to stumble across. But they come out of the walls, the 
 ceiling, the break through the damn stairs and start swiping or hucking fireballs Ive jumped, 
 screamed, cursed, and paused to take a walk around while telling myself it isnt real. And my friends 
 all laugh when they hear me shriek like a little girl Theres nothing quite like walking along in 
 a game, paranoid as hell to even go through a door because you dont know if youre about to get 
 your face bitten off by a monster or a zombie, and when they do pop out theyre not in swarms, 
 in part that it would lag the system, but also so you have a moment to go; Huh, I need new pants 
 and WHERE THE HELL DID YOU COME FROM!? before they charge in. The sheer amount of weapons fire 
 you need to pump into some of these buggers is both frustrating and realistic in the fact that 
 they ain people, theyre freaky freaky monsters that want to make a hula skirt out of your internal 
 organs. Its like taking a stroll through your worst nightmare, if games like this can get you 
 scared. The voices crying for help, the people running for their lives on occasion in areas you 
 cant get to, and the screams of the dying moments later, all make to cause you to wonder Was 
 this a good idea? The only problem Ive had is the dark, thank googly moogly for the Duct Tape 
 mod, simply for the sake that it makes no damn sense that the marine cant just tape a damn flashlight 
 to a few of his guns, some may call it cheating, I call it good sense, because the gun beams are 
 narrower, and less powerful, making you either struggle on in near blindness, or switch to the 
 main flashlight if you want to see everything more fully, right before everything punches you in 
 the face.
  
  Overall, a masterful example of what games should be. Something that has been lost in recent years 
 has been substance in exchange for flashy special effects or just plain gruesome looking violence. 
 This game delivers all in one fell stroke, and despite the zombie nightmares I am getting from 
 this game, I shall persevere... and will not stop until I see the damn Cyber Demon... 'cause I 
 know it has to be there somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dowju
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 11, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I had very high hopes for Doom3. And oh my was I dissapointed. After you get over how good the 
 game looks, there really isn't much to it. First, for only a marginal improvement in looks over 
 other games Doom3 is very demanding on system specs. I upgraded my PC just to make this playable 
 and was dissapointed by the improvements I saw for the money I spent.
  (Although it was justified by my framerate increase for Source engine games)
  
  Sure the game 
 can be scary at times, but the whole monster closet thing gets old really quickly, and the AI is 
 too stupid to be challenging. For example when you first see an Imp, its scurrying around on the 
 walls and pipes, looking like a fireball hurling spider from hell. Well after that first encounter 
 all any imp ever does is stand in the one place hurling fireballs, and takes a swipe at you if 
 you get close. Sounds remarkably like thier Doom 1-2 behaviour to me.
  
  While this game may be very atmospheric with great looks and sound, it really isn't very challenging 
 or fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shugo89
Rating: 4.7
Date: Sep 10, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  The positives to this game include a short learning curve, decent graphics, and a good concept. 
 However it has one MAJOR negative point... It's ridiculously shadowed to the point where you CAN'T 
 SEE A THING. I spent half my time playing this game looking at a black screen. Ridiculous. The 
 shadows killed the whole experience for me. This game would probably be 100 times better if you 
 could strap the flashlight to your weapons. As many people put it, there's "No duct tape on Mars".
 
  
  Note: I'd have to say this game was a complete waste of time. Buying it would be a waste of $20. 
 Use the money to buy computer upgrades. Or possibly a large Domino's pizza. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doug_Rock
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is one of those games that you SHOULD have in your computer. The atmosphere is amazing and 
 is the most fantastic aspect of the game. I played many shooters and Doom 3 really scares you more 
 than any other game you have the possibility of playing. In many parts of the game, you can't use 
 both your guns and your lantern at the same time. That's why i don't recommend it to those with 
 heart problems. The graphics are really impressive and causes you to jump from your chair. Sometimes 
 you think the monsters are going to jump out of your monitor and are going to attack you... haha! 
 :-) The sound... well... terrific! If you play it, your volume should be at max. The gameplay is 
 not revolutionary and is equal to any other shooter you have played, but this doesn't make you 
 feel bored after some hours playin'.
  
  Conclusions: If you have money to buy this game, don't lack it with some other game. This is THE 
 GAME, unless you have some kind of heart disease. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zro3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 9, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 may have its boring moments of the game where things tend to be repetitive and slow but, 
 thats why the Mods have been put out there, to make it more interesting. I look at a Mod for this 
 game as someones view on how they think the game should be played, like adding flashlights to various 
 weapons or, adding more enemies and ammo to make the game seem more.... real. Personally, I found 
 Doom 3 to be kinda slow without some of the mods I use, I find that the Mods that make the game 
 more real by giving flashlights to some weapons and makeing them slightly more powerful make the 
 game more interesting. Also, haveing a few more enemies than what Doom 3 offers makes it go by 
 a bit faster... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 6, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  A game like this plays out more like a good old day style shooter just with more awesome graphics. 
 A great graphics engine is really what keeps most of the game alive with such an obvious story 
 line that only 50% comes up to something that is called originality. Even though the game has a 
 unexciting story line the game play actually is quite good if you compare it to Black which runs 
 out of excitement really quickly. The first half of the game is quite fast but it does sort of 
 slow down from there and the action just keep on coming.
  
  The game's monster design is really creative and you can see how fun it would be to be a game concept 
 artist for ID software. Weapons are better than the regular range of grenades and bullet shells 
 because of the new and ripping chainsaw and the BFG gun which can fire huge waves of green energy 
 that destroys the enemies faster than any other weapon. It is always enjoyable to mess around with 
 your enemy's corpse like in Halo 1 and 2 but in Doom 3 that is is not an option with the game's 
 disintegration system which lowers the fun factor a little bit. The game's style is unlike any 
 other game and has the darkest bits known to the world of gaming which is quite annoying due to 
 the game's torch not being attached to a gun or some other weapon which is improved in ID software's 
 Quake 4.
  
  Level designs are very simple yet they do get more twisted in the hell levels of the game which 
 are unique and bring some of that olden day taste to the game with it's Quake 2 like sky. I have 
 nothing more to say but to get this game if you like blood and gore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitmanzombie
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 6, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  First I want to talk about the idea of this game. It made the connection between science and supernatural 
 which I am agree. But honestly, this is not a orginal idea. I remember the movie called Ghost on 
 mars. It is about an ancient martian gate was found. It released ghosts to infect human into crazy 
 killer. It didn't talk about hell or demon. But once again, It made the connection between science 
 and supernatural. The graphic is good. it is like improved quake 2. The things that made the graphic 
 so attractive are the lighting and using of bumpmap. I remember I turned off the shadow and bumpmap 
 effect once. The graphic looks like Quake 3. The model is crappy and the. I think models in counter 
 strike are better that those. Anyway, If those models are complex, my computer would eventually 
 explode. The sound effect is not good as its graphic. I mean the gun shots sound like airsoft shots. 
 Every time I fire the shotgun. I can only hear the impact sound. It is louder than the gun shot. 
 The machinegun shots are also bad. It sounds like neil gun or something that is powered by compressed 
 gas. Chaingun is better. But I remember that a chaingun should go at least 1000 rounds per minute. 
 It doesn; t sound like that. I remember what they did in Unreal 2004 is that they combine 4 shots 
 in to one sound file. So everytime a bullet goes off, it sounds like you fired 4 shots. This way, 
 the Minigun would sound really fast. And I did this to the m249 in Counter strike. Good idea. The 
 best thing in this game is the mood. The darkness is everywhere. I have to change back and forth 
 between weapons and flash light. I died so many time without knowing who attacked me. The unexplainable 
 events happen everywhere. The floating body, The pentagram and blood wrightings .The first time 
 I saw the guts looks thing that stuck on the walls, I didn't know what the hell that was. I guess 
 it was Satan's stomic or intestine. At the rear part of the game. Those guts thingy is everywhere. 
 Damn I am scared. I am so frustrated. Good game, worth your money and time. But do not play if 
 you have heart disease or you are under 18. You soul is not strong enough to bare this. You gonna 
 have night mare. You are going to be scared of darkness. And never ever play doom 3 at mid night. 
 You are going to see ghosts. At lease I saw one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frizkit
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  Its done when its done - ID software
  
  First of all, i must admit that i have a softspot for the legendary DooM series.
  I played the 
 first DooM game on the pc prob. back in 1994 at a friends home of mine. And although it barely 
 ran on his crappy computer, i was hooked. Ok, partly of the convincing high tech 3D-graphics world ( 
 Go Carmack) , something that was new at that time. And with the great graphics, sound (eary unsettling 
 soundtrack- grumbling demons laying wating to ambush you) , great monsters demons, gameplay (surprise 
 attacks:) and don't forget the BFG (wonder what that stands for:) and the Chainsaw! /grin :) Cool 
 game huh?
  
  After DooM II was released back in 1994, nv the expansions like Final DooM etc, the franchise took 
 a backseat. Its developer, ID-software began working on Quake. Anyway, FFWD to 2001. Or something. 
 The year a certain graphics chip developer introduced the new Geforce 3 graphics chip to the world. 
 World first nfinite fx GPU, with groundbraking features for increased visual quality. And there 
 it was, on a small screen, a pretty, scary looking game, with amazing detailed graphics and one 
 hell of a scary monster. What was noticable, were the shadows those rotating fans give, and the 
 polygon count of everything. Characters demons etc. Another thing the game made it look so realistic, 
 is the heavy and good use of per pixel bump-mapping. This technique gives the walls, ceiling, floors, 
 characters etc depth. Like cracks in walls, stones where wall is made from etc. Ok, enough tech 
 talk.
  Anyway, DooM III was one of the first games which took full advantage of the new graphics chipsets. 
 ID (John Carmack anyone?:) already had a reputation of being a pioneer in developing new game-engines. 
 (and selling them)
  
  So the graphics of this game are cutting edge. Even as i write this review now 2 years later. As 
 for the sound, they didn't save in this department as well. Instead of just looping soundtracks 
 like in the ol' DooMsdays, the sound is all dynamic now. Mostly ambiance, depending in what situation 
 you are. So you hear things like your own footsteps, machines, and.... demons. And then rattling 
 gunfire:) or a frickin chainsaw . gnagnagna.
  Critical sidenote: some of the weapons sound underpowered. Especially the big mitrailleur/ So could 
 be better.
  The game's audio gives a scary feeling of forbodeness?, a sort of feeling youre being watched...
 
  
  The STORY in short is based on the the first Doom game, for those who don't what i am talking about., (shame 
 on you:) here it is. The game takes place in the future (2145 or so) when mankind stretches it 
 wings further into space. And so they build a base on Mars, the red planet which is interesting 
 because of its resources, etc etc. At a certain point, there was a technologically breakttrough 
 thanks to some smart scientists. Namely Teleportation. Gosh! But then when they did experiments 
 with it, something wrong. Terribly wrong, because what happend, they accidently opent up the gate 
 straight to Hell! Hence the phrase: Hell on Mars... Ofcourse everything at the base plunged into 
 chaos and destruction . Now here's where the player comes in. You, a veteran Marine soldier, (without 
 a name) as one of the few survivors of this invasion from Hell, must put and end to this and close 
 the gate. And trying to stay alive in this mess along the way... So DooM III is basically a sort 
 of remake of the original Doom game. Only much better graphics and sound. So as for the GAMEPLAY 
 : there not much difference since then. This means the gameplay is relatively simple and straightforward. 
 Many gamers complained about this. And to some degree, i agree with the lot. Because FPS games 
 have made several improvements in gameplay since 1993. Like more interactive evironments, making 
 use of physics (half-life) , team-based gameplay, stealth, advanced AI etc etc. Not Doom III. Therefore 
 it can feel a bit dated. But ID wanted to make a sort of remake, only this time making more emphasize 
 on the horror-aspect. Because of the quality of the graphics DooM III makes a lot more impact then 
 the original. But thats also the reason that DooM III does not play the same. DooM III gameplay 
 is slower paced, and your enemies are not coming by dozens after you. For the sake of your computer:) 
 In that way the game Painkiller plays more like the old DooM.
  
  But this isn't necesarry bad. The things that hurt DooM III gameplay though, are the environments, 
 the base locations where most of the game takes place look a bit too simular. Small corridors, 
 (alpha, delta labs etc etc) computer rooms etc etc. And dark too. I agree that darkness adds atmosphere, 
 but jeez! You get a flashlight right at the beginning, and boy, youre gonna need it too! So the 
 environments get a bit repetive, although you get to play outside on Mars (read: need to go) once 
 in a while. Where its quite dangerous, and then only because of lack of oxygen etc etc. Let alone 
 those flying Meatballs outside,:) AND, (spoiler alert) the amazing Inferno-level. But these variations 
 are too few too make up for its repetiveness.
  There's one other thing that disappoints me a bit about this game: with all that realistic shadowcasting 
 going on, why didn't ID-software implement a sort of Stealth aspect to it? It would be cool if 
 you could see a demon lurking somewhere in the shadows with its blistering eyes not knowing youre 
 there. It doesn't have to be like Thief or Splinter Cell or anything, but.... Or that you could 
 see a shadow of a demon, but you cant see him. But no! Instead of this demons most times just come 
 running at you. I don't have problems with demons spawning however. After all, they are coming 
 from another dimension, right? And that they are send by that allseeing Saur... i mean Satan.:) 
 Final Thoughts 
  The long awaited DooM III shaped up as a one hell of a scary, great looking game with some very 
 moody atmosphere. Especially if you play this game with the lights out. Some say you see more then 
 btw, because this is dark itself. Very, very dark:) The gameplay is pretty straightforward, in 
 contrary to its engine and presentation. Props for ID for the art-design and animation of all the 
 stuff, the demons really look awesome. So it was good... but it could be badder.... to be DooMed, 
 eh continued maybe? (DooM 4?)
  
  Pros: +It is done! -take that 3D Realms! (DK: forever! , whenever?) +scary moody atmosphere... hey 
 its DooM! +great graphics &amp; art design +return of the Chainsaw &amp; the BFG:) Cons -the waiting 
 -could use more variety in places (also more open ones) -demons could be brighter. (for more exciting 
 confrontations, making use of their (shadow) environments) -not really necessary, but a basic element 
 of stealth could be interesting? -what happened to that cool blue horned demon with the yellow 
 gaze seen in the preview Demo''s? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkimbler
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 3, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first came out almost two year ago. I played it for a bit and lost interest 
 and it sat on my shelf. Interesting that approximately two year later I reinstalled it and gave 
 it another go and I am glad I did.
  
  The game play is clean and straightforward. It's a first person shooter that is just that. There 
 are not many puzzles to figure out and slow the game down. Simply keep moving and killing as you 
 go.
  
  The graphics are good but are no longer groundbreaking as they were two years ago. However the 
 lighting and shadowing is impressive.
  
  It's also not overly hard. As long as you save regularly, you don't need to repeat or work over 
 areas many times.
  
  Overall, it was time well spent and engrossing. I would recommend those that haven't played it 
 yet to spend the $20 you can get it for now and have at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daiwin1982
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  Once I played this on my cousins PC I knew I just had to have this game!
  I love horror-thriller games like Doom 3 and hope that they do make Doom 4!
  This starts out 
 as a lighted game but very soon into the game it becomes dark and sinister.
  Things lurking in the dark and the boogy man waiting to pounce on you!
  I have Doom 3 and have 
 won it.
  I have Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil and have not won the Expansion yet.
  Over all I give this game a perfect because it is nothing like the Originals in graphics plot or 
 overall road killing with your guns!
  This game is surely not for the faint of heart nor for kids under 18! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guylapierre
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 29, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I finally got around to playing this game as it fell through the cracks for me somehow. From a 
 graphical standpoint it lives up to today's standards even a few years after its release. However, 
 I did not enjoy the game play. It got old very quick and I had to force myself to play it. I played 
 the last 3 levels in God mode just to make it to the end because I got so tired of the game I did 
 not want to put any more effort into it. I don't mind being surprised or even ambushed but when 
 it is repetitive and you can't see anything most of the time it loses its lustre very quickly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  At this moment I still have to finish this game and I've got Resurrection of Evil lying waiting 
 here.
  
  Doom III is old-school, same **** as before but looking much and much better, actually it does 
 look awesome. Moving around slowly through hallways and getting almost scared to death when something 
 drops or jumps and attacks you from out the dark. Really an unhealthy game!
  
  Story? Mars, blah blah, strange things happening, blah blah, special team, blah blah, sudden event, 
 blah blah, everyone dead or transformed, blah blah, you're the only survivor, be the hero. Standard 
 linear story, just lock 'n load!
  
  I've found it great to see how Doom has evolved, although it's still a pretty mindless game: If 
 it moves kill it! It most certainly is not the best game ever, but you should try and see the beauty 
 of it, more monsters, more killing, graphics splashing off the screen and creepy sounds filling 
 up the room, making people passing your house think people getting killed inside!!
  
  I also saw the movie and I must say I did like it a lot. Okay, they're mutants and there's no gateway 
 to Hell, but the word 'Hell' was used many times though and my eyes got blurry the moment Sarge 
 died... whoops, spoiler!
  The last 10 minutes of the movie were shot from first person view and very well done, you should 
 check out the making of to see how it was done, maybe it changes your opinion a bit if you didn't 
 think much of it in the first place.
  
  Well back to the game, if you played the original Doom-games then make sure you have a look at 
 this one, you'll probably get it for free by now buying a candy-bar being it an old game by now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsuyamono
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 26, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Set in the future on a far off planet infested with demons, zombies, and no easy way out. I'm sure 
 you've heard it before, as is the setting with many of the FPS, including the last 2 Doom games 
 from the franchise as well as Quake (surprisingly from the same developer, gasp!) . While it's not 
 exactly anything new, creative, or innovative, the developers at id sure did have their hands full 
 with turning the Doom platform next generation. Surely enough, I'd say they did a fine job. Transforming 
 one of the most popular first-person shooters into a immense full 3D next-generation video game 
 were huge shoes to fill, as I'm sure all gamers anticipation upped the ante vastly.
  
  In terms of game-play, it's a FPS, and in terms of first-person shooters there was nothing done 
 to really innovate the experience. There were even some step backs, we've seen melee moves in Call 
 of Duty, why hasn't this been implemented into the new Doom engine? Limiting melee to a fists 
 weapon made close quarter combats with many adversary's much more difficult, and although a bit 
 more intense and exhilarating, a bit of a pain in the ass many a time. At many points in the game 
 the common enemies, Inferatus, pounce on you and create a very close quarter combat and the only 
 remedy is to shoot blindly or try and back up and regain focus. Though I'm sure a physics system 
 wouldn't have done much justice to the game in terms of game-play, the "Silent Hill"-esque environments 
 don't take well to physics, it just ruins the **** scary tone.
  
  I have to say, it's quite an addicting and fun game, though a bit repetitive later in once the 
 adrenaline dies down in the blood. My first experience with the game left me 5 hours into the night 
 non-stop, which hasn't happened to me since one of those crazy Final Fantasy games (not the gay 
 ones, see IX, X, X-2) . The next day after the 5 hour game night the exhilaration dissipated, the 
 game got boring, quick. It was driveling garbage, the same thing over and over with my commander 
 barking new orders into my ear and the same enemies in different environments. Every so often the 
 game picks up but overall it's a bit of a drag in the middle or so. The peak points in the story 
 cannot make up for the hours spent in between drudging through the station.
  
  As much as it's easy to put down after the pinnacle point, I'd pick the title back up just as quickly. 
 After beating the game every month or so I pop the disk back in and play through a few hours from 
 the start, just because it's that stimulating of a experience. Though I never beat the game in 
 these sessions, I sure as hell love going back to the beginning and kicking major zombie ass with 
 my array of weaponry (which is limited, but barely noticable) . The fact that there isn't any hard-coded 
 replay worth material is what surprises about the replay-value of this game. The developers didn't 
 even have to try to get me to pick this game up again, and that is an accomplishment.
  
  Sure the story from it's core seems like drivel but it can be quite riveting with an actual first-hand 
 experience of the story with the environments. There's no real character development, or any side 
 stories that ensnare the player, but the story is rock-solid enough to understand and play through 
 for most gamers. What really sets the story off are the in-game scenes, seeing the actual rituals 
 and a demonic organic growth in the room with faint whispers of the afterlife turns that driveling 
 shit to crisp polished shit Improvement? Yeah, so so.
  
  The greatest leap in terms of development in the Doom series is the much needed graphical upgrade. 
 Sure, 2D sprites in that 3D environments was cool way back when, but the standards have drastically 
 changed, and for the most part have been met. The game graphics are just short of stunning, though 
 I'm still getting a almost cartoon-ish feeling to the characters and monsters. And while that's 
 great in terms of style, I expected something different from a horror. Though the style doesn't 
 conflict much with the actual scare-factor of the creatures, humans (not zombies) are a bit of 
 a drag and I'm left expecting a bit more. Overall it's a giant leap forward, and though a small 
 step from perfect, the game delivers.
  
  The shreiks of your fellow officers and the burst of air from the broken air vent, all sounds that 
 will send a shrill up your spine, why? They're just that realistic, it's almost as if your partner 
 were right behind you. Normally I dont expect much from a FPS in terms of sound, the realistic 
 sounds of shooting, bullet-to-zombie contact, etc, is just something that's a given. Though what 
 really make it immersive are the sounds coming from the maps and radio. Journeying through the 
 base at the beginning of the game you will often hear the graphic screams of your fellow marines 
 which leaves you terror strucken as to what may lie ahead. The sounds on the map arent perfect, 
 though the do the job well making you edgy at every creak and crash. The sounds overly impressed 
 me in this title, creating a amazing tone and experience for the player. I havent been this jumpy 
 playing a game since Silent Hill, and we all know that game + night = nightmares and difficulty 
 sleeping for the next 3 years.
  
  With all the hype surrounding the title I was a bit reluctant to say, but after delving into the 
 fast-paced, heart stopping Doom experience I can say I've come out with a new perspective on the 
 franchise as well as a feeling of satisfaction. I truly have to give Doom 3 a 9 out of 10, a sequel 
 to a monumental cult classic that's lived up to it's predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mobbaren
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 24, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  What I look for in a shooter is three things:
  
  1. UNREALISTIC AIMING. Yes in real life you cant shoot thirty shots in a row and always hit what 
 you're aiming at from 500 yards away, but in a good shooter you can! And that's nothing bad.
  
  2. WIDE ARRAY OF WEAPONS. Ofcourse Doom3 only really needs one weapon, the godly shotgun (oh, 
 how I love thee) . But you want to at least feel as if you need to use all your weapons sometime 
 around. Different weapon for different situations. This is where doom loses ground.
  
  3. LOADS AND LOADS AND LOADS OF ENEMIES. Zombies, these damn zombies keep driving me nuts. Disregarding 
 the lonesome but oh-so annoying imp, there really isn't much to doom's bestiary. Yes you have fat 
 guys with huge mouths running around with metal legs, that just isnt enough for picky lil' me.
 
  
  So, where does Doom3 float my boat? Every-fricking-elsewhere. It doesn't quite fill up my criteria 
 as far as the top3 list of a shooter, but lately, i have to say that my list is going to need an 
 upgrade. The splattersounds when you unload a shotgunshell into a fatty (the zombie ones, mind 
 you) is close to godly. The moans and sighs when you hurt a meanmean zombie badly (god, I'm so 
 evil) is mindbodly. And that's just the sound-part! The graphics is so good (I'm not **** you) 
 that you'll have to turn it down a bit just to get the gaming feeling. Oh and the textures *drool*, 
 the textures makes your mouth water, litterally. Motions when you shoot / reload are great. It's 
 simply one of the best shooters I've ever bought.
  
  And what does all of this come down to. It simply comes down to YOU ordering this game NOW if you 
 haven't played it yet. It's an important part of FPS history, buy it, or face legal actions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABOLZOZ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  The king of all shooters was finally released. But how can u do the sequel f the best game ever? 
 How do u recreate Doom? 
  Doom 3 is simply an incredible shooter, but definitely not the most important title released! Back 
 in 1993 doom created the core elements for any shooter that followed. But the overall trend in 
 shooters started to deviate from the classical school created by id.
  
  The new trend became more dominant. The realistic oriented style, that mock realism that u find 
 in excellent games like far cry and call for duty series etc 
  No one expected that the new doom will adopt that style it must be a classical school shooter definitely. 
 Sadly the problem today is not in the game but in the style it follows! An old school shooter will 
 not receive a best game award, even if it follows the rules line by line. Take Serious Sam for 
 example. A new classic that will never be a classic. If u know what I mean. The problem is not 
 in the game but in the public perception of what a game should be. This is why Doom3 tried to exceed 
 expectation in other areas. Like graphics and sound effects. (+ superb environment : remember the 
 hell level) 
  Doom 3 had a clear idea of what it wanted to be a pure old school shooter that is unbeatable in 
 its own way. A replica of doom the original doom with few minor changes. Like (lower speed & stamina) . 
 Doom3 definitely embraces and understands its identity, unlike half life 2. I have played both 
 from beginning to end twice. (And doom3 by the way is only enjoyable at the hardcore difficulty 
 level)
  Half life 2 are u a classical shooter? or do u follow the mock realism style of far cry.. U r a 
 confused shooter that wants to beat every other shooter at its own game but constantly fail to 
 do so. Just look at your arsenal of weapons it is not realistic and not classical, original yes 
 but not beautiful. A gravity gun, blue stuff flying from the rifle, and energy balls, pleases. stop. 
 I want to carry either a plasma rifle or and ak-47 either or .ok not an ak-plama thingy ! 
  Doom3 is a true classic that will never become a new classic. This is doom like doom always was 
 the unbeatable shooter. It truly deserves a 10 but it can only receive an 8.9. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerGoff
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the third installment of the fps series. Id Software gave Doom 3 new looks a on the monsters, 
 looks on the weapons, new places, maps, enimies, and a new weapon. The storyline takes place at 
 mars in the UAC base. You play as the nameless marine. Inside the game you'll go to dark places, 
 so got a flashlight. Later in the first level of the game, the forces of hell came. 
  
  Inside Doom 3, you cant hold the gun and flashlight at the same time. The gameplay of Doom 3 is 
 a bit perfect. The controls of the game feels like every first person shooter games. In Doom 3 
 you could collect PDAs to unlocks lockers, and doors. The enimies you'll encouter are different 
 from doom and doom 2. You can play multiplayer on the internet or lan. But there is a four player 
 limit. 
  
  Doom 3 have different multiplayer modes, deathmacth, team deathmacth, last man standing, and capture 
 the flag. The graphics are super if that what you can think. It could cost you a bit more money 
 to get the right video cards. Doom 3 give the weapons, monsters, and maps new looks. Id supports 
 real time lighting and shadows. Real physics are handheld, when you blast enimies with your weapon 
 they blowen to gore, or bursted to ashes. 
  
  the sounds of Doom 3 are quite stuning. The game have no soundtrack, but had a heavy metal tune 
 in the main menu. Doom 3 have great sound effects. The footsteps from the marine are too loud. 
 But the gun sounds is good. 
  
  Doom 3 is the great game to play on the pc. this one could be a buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrivateHudson
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  11 years after the great first-person shooter Doom premiered on the Internet as a shareware game 
 in 1993, id software remade the game and released it as Doom 3. A terrific first-person shooter 
 where you played as a space marine who is caught in all the hell that has broken loose throughout 
 a base on the planet Mars and has to fight his way through multiple enemies to survive. The gameplay 
 is superb as you play through all these levels wit a great variety of weapons but sometimes the 
 game can be boring in the middle levels but it then gets way better when you get to hell and beyond 
 and some of the weapons feel a little useless (Fists and Pistol) when dealing with stronger enemies 
 and the game gets really hard at the end that it's impossible to beat without God mode. As for 
 the graphics, Doom 3 looks amazing even if you barely meet the minimum requirements and put the 
 game at medium quality. This game also sounds amazing with great voice acting, scary sound effects, 
 and good music on the title screen. This game is a hell of a lot of fun except when you're dying 
 too much in the last levels. As for frustration, the game can be frustrating but hey this game 
 is extremely fun and you should spend your 20 bucks on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 4.1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  The game that recieved several excellent ratings, is indeed a sham. It's a shame really, as Doom 
 3 promised so much, but delivered so little. Especially in the gameplay category.
  
  There's no doubt that Doom 3's Graphics are astonishing. They are really that amazing, and most 
 gamers will sit in awe at the "life-like" graphics on the screen. The main problem is - the game 
 won't run on everyone's computer. Which is kind of a blessing really as people would definately 
 not want to buy this game without showing off its graphical capabilities because, to be perfectly 
 honest, that's the only great thing about the game.
  
  Gameplay is amazingly repetitive. Sure it can be a scary game - depending on the setup - however 
 this is a prime example of where PC gaming will be in the next few years. All flash and no substance. 
 The level designing is astonishingly simple - like a space dungeon - and the amazing graphics just 
 try and cover up the fact that the level design is quite unimpressive. If this game was remade 
 like the original Doom, this would be proven. The weapons are uninteresting and quite unoriginal. 
 The shotgun, is about as fun to use as a vacuum cleaner. 
  
  The sound can be quite creepy - depending on the setup - however most of it is quite lame and annoying. 
 It was terrible value when first available however now it may be just poor. 
  
  The game is offering little for multiplayer, prooving that they wanted to make a quick buck by 
 not putting any effort into the multiplayer category.
  
  If you're into a game that just looks impressive and mindless repetitive shooting then this is 
 for you. If you want some substance, may I offer Deus Ex?
  
  :' ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirlman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  The scariest game of all time!!!! This game was amazing, from start to finish, it was fantastic. 
 The graphics where crazy good, but it was the sound that was the difference between it and others. 
 It was the combination of the sound and scary-as-hell gameplay, that made thsi game so good. The 
 single player campaign was nuts, and it went on forever, but in a good way. I recomend to anybody 
 with a good computer, cause to get the max eperience, you need a good video card, and an even better 
 sound system. Just make sure the lights are off when you play!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunkWeasel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the 3rd game in the Doom "trilogy" and the reason why people seem to hate it so much 
 is that it isn't Doom, it's something they weren't expecting. Doom 3's gameplay is great for a 
 FPS, since it doesn't line up the targets for you, it doesn't throw a lot of enemies at you, and 
 the enemies aren't stupid like in most games. This game is slow paced, and instead of focusing 
 on run and gun action, it throws monsters at you one or two at a time from the shadows or corridors. 
 This game is not meant to have you just blasting demons, it aims to scare you, and at 2am with 
 the surround sound on, it will. Doom 3's immersive world is its best feature. The graphics are 
 very realistic, with minor texture shortages. The shadows in Doom 3 are second only to the ones 
 in SC: CT. Doom 3's sound is its best feature though, with 5.1 surround sound support, every monster 
 sneaking up on you will be heard in time for you to pull out your shotgun. Doom 3 is very lengthy 
 for a FPS clocking in at 12-15 hours depending on difficulty level. The only problem is, there 
 ain't much to go back to. But the reason why many didn't like Doom 3, is that it isn't truly Doom. 
 Instead of the run and gun gameplay of the first two Doom games this one mixed it up, which some 
 weren't ready for. My verdict on Doom 3 is that it doesn't serve the series justice, but it's one 
 hell of a game on its own merits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njdss4
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 12, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is supposed to be dark and scary. And it is. But when you get ambushed by 5 monsters 
 and you can't see any of them until it's way too late, that's just frustrating and boring. Had 
 they made the game more like F. E. A. R., where you can have your flashlight on almost all the time, 
 it might be a tad better. I tried downloading that patch where it puts a flashlight on all your 
 weapons, but I still had to deal with the too-realistic damage system. Every time you get hit, 
 the camera flies off in some random direction. That's realistic, but again it's just frustrating 
 because if you can't see anything except what's right in front of you and your camera is flying 
 off in random directions because you're getting hit. At least I paid under $20 for the game because 
 I got it off of Ebay. Don't waste your time with this game unless you're getting it for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spagee
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  Dam scary, Dam fun.
  
  These are some of the distinguishing features of this game, The graphics, the sound, the gameplay, 
 the gripping atmosphere and well, the game itself.
  
  The game started off like you would expect, nothing happens until you get deeper into the game, 
 then the action starts. I must say the shotgun is the greatest thing ever. Period. There are some 
 realistic effects like if you held a grenade too long, it would explode in your hand. The sound 
 was something to marvel at. So creepy, ee-ry whispers, evil laughter, and atmospheric music.
  
  In conclusion, Doom 3 was a great play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kool_cujo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  First of all i would like to say for pregnant women and people of faint of heart do not play this 
 game. It is very scary. I times i would play it with sound, but i would not be able to sleep if 
 i did. The sound effects are amazingly great. Its the best ive ever heard in any game ever..... 
 Hearing that the gameplay was pretty fun, but it isnt that fantastic. The graphics are amazingly 
 amazing! The game is not just scary it is very fulfing when you beat it (i dont wanna give away 
 the ending tho...) The weapon selection was pretty good but the chainsaw got to be a little cheep 
 cause it would kill everything so easily.. i thot tho that the beggining was harder cause it is 
 hard to find ammo for the pistol and u mite lose it fast and then it is very hard to pass a certain 
 part too. Overall if u havent gone out and bought it u totally hav missed out!!!!! and is the greatest 
 first person shooter horror game ever (not including F. E. A. R.) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nshot
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  wow! this game is awesome great good remarkable and scary what a great combo since this is the 
 first doom game ive played i dunno about the other doom games. but the graphics are awesome they 
 are one of the best not to mention freakiest and scariest. the gameplay is really good and scary 
 i almost wet my pants lol. the sounds they sound like ur really in the game and all that so its 
 quite good its one of the best horror games out there. plz not i said one of the not is lol thats 
 all i hav to say. well except i still cant post it im gonna start puttin in random stuff stand well 
 back lol. d s k o yu hde hkd jri akjsd jdsi hdia djoie nfdla jdol dkjol nelw ejr wer lejr l; erj. 
 i think that shud b enof plz dont read any more as im just putting crap in !!!!! !!!!! !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMaoTao
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 6, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I've spend too much time in this game. I've played from start to finish 6 or more times in several 
 pc configurations from low end (32 mb gpu pentium 3) to high end (256mb gbu on pentium d) , even in 
 my laptop (turion 1,8 & x700 128) . I used from crappy screen speakers to 5.1 surround system.
  
  My opinion about this game is like a cos function changing from total pos to total negative. The 
 fact is when i play it for more than 1-2 levels all the weaknesses begin to show themselves. Today 
 i've played a couple of levels... Don't be offended you have your opinion about this game ,remember? I'm 
 still searching for the breakthrough masterpiece horror game in Doom 3 and i haven't found it yet...
 
  
  The Good
  
  I believed that this game was going to be very cool and after i've played the "leaked" alpha version 
 i was sure about this.
  
  When the game came out i was impressed from the graphics which were
  optimized to render faster 
 than the alpha version. Also the animation was unbelievable good, as the model design. If we see it 
 from raw graphics stand point of view doom3 is awesome.
  
  Also it had some cinematic moments like half life that was remarkable.
  Some scenes of the game 
 are great like the scientist that guide you carrying a lantern in dark halls and this little robot 
 that fights with you, or the pinky that tries to break the door of a room that you're closed in, and 
 finally understands that it can break the all glasses walls of the room far more easier. (Too bad 
 that was just a script, it would have been quite an ai code design)
  
  Unlike older id games you have much more interactivity with the enviroment and you can use html 
 computer screens!!! You can destroy lights and cast everything in darkness.
  
  The old monsters are back in great form and great looks. They've designed also lots of high quality 
 models for this game. Also the textures art is of high quality.
  
  The Bad
  
  Now to the bad part:
  This game supposed to be a horror masterpiece but i don't understand why
 
  they couldn't kept a balance at horror gaming and fps gaming. It proved that the
  constant fps action ruined the horror atmosphere of the game. The problem was the orthodox game 
 design of the game. The design philosophy around it
  was to load each level spaces with the greater amount of monsters. I know it is fun to plant invisible 
 triggers all around the levels but this is the fun
  of an amateur not what a professional should output.
  If they haven't ignored the principle that 
 you can't be in horror state if you kill
  dozens of monsters one after another they could have developed a cult game. Now it seems that doom3 
 is just an idsoftware game and nothing more.
  Also the transition between levels was crappy and reminded the old doom
  that you had to press 
 the button in the exit room. Sooo outdated...
  
  In general i wasn't impressed from the levels either. I would expect a greater variation or less 
 number of identical corridor levels. The hell levels was better and it reminded me the oneiros levels 
 in Undying ( I am sure this was one of the brightest game design choices in doom 3 to copy Undying, if 
 you want to play a true horror game with level design variation try Undying) .
  
  I've read somewhere that they've paid some professional writer to enrich the game classic scenario. Well 
 it's much better that the quake 1 script (just read it and enjoy the simple-primitve brain inspiration 
 but i think they've wasted their money here. They could have paid for better sound artists instead. 
 
  
  And the Crappy
  
  I hate the way that monsters are burned or splatered when you kill them.
  This was a bad-bad 
 game design choice.
  
  Monsters that use guns-i hate them because they fight like bots. I can't believe that a zombie can 
 fight like this. The game would have been a little more realistic if the demonic creatures didn't 
 shoot at you projectiles.
  
  Weak normal zombies - wish the zombies was more tougher like resident evil, and would never die 
 like the alpha version and always get up to hunt you after a little while. Well done id, you let 
 go the great idea of the alpha version.
  
  Monsters coming from nowhere or embedded fake walls-one word cheap horror.
  
  Balance of the 
 weapons - the weapons just to put it right plain sucks. I like the chainsaw but all the other weapons 
 aren't as they should have been.
  
  The sounds of the game is just cheap fillings. The "sound artists" are amateurs and certenly deaf. I 
 can't just the horrible machine gun or pistol shot sound and i quickly change to shotgun that i 
 can bare to listen.
  The sounds haven't any "soul" in them they didn't helped the presentation
  of the monsters or 
 the horror elements of the game. If you have a doubt check the alpha version that had professional 
 soundtrack from Trent Reznor.
  
  Flashlight - the flashlight effect was bad and that's why they didn't allowed it
  to use it when 
 holding a weapon. I've tried duct tape mod, but i hated the looks of the game when you have flashlight 
 permanent turn on, and i removed for the classic no duct tape on mars mode.
  
  No music-Oh men, horror is music everybody on this planet understand this. I know they had crappy 
 sound artists and i don't continue it. If they've ruined the sounds of the game better was not to 
 write any music.
  
  Finally 
  
  I hate that i've found so many things that could have been better in Doom 3
  because this isn't 
 my job. This was id job and they shouldn't have marketed this as a horror game because that way 
 you insult true horror games and you're fooling potential customers that would buy this game.
 
  
  I believe they prefered to play it safe than make a masterpiece game that
  would have been difficult to understand by normal fps meatheads.
  
  I don't think there ain't 
 gonna be a Doom 4, because they have destroyed the
  reputation of the game's name. Now people will expect something trivial not something cult and masterpiece.
 
  
  Also the "leaked" alpha version was quite the best marketing move i've seen. Doom1 was leaked, when 
 nobody knew about id... quake was leaked..., quake3 was leaked... Too much leaking bro, they should 
 have paid some security guys.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HHH_The_Game00
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 5, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I have played very few FPS games on the PC, including Doom 3, Half-Life 2 and Farcry but I must 
 admit I was impressed by the stunning visuals, audio playback and game immersiveness which has 
 been cunningly attatched to this well known title.
  
  Doom 3 gives the gamer thrill, excitement, horror, and of course: blasting and cutting down ugly 
 creatures on another planet with anything from bullets to plasma to the good ol' fashion chainsaw. 
 Of course, the game is made easier with a few small features such as the ever so popular 'quick 
 save' which allows the player to save the game at ANY point he or she desires, making difficult 
 obsticles easier to conquer.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Doom has always been known for being a great First Person Shooter, but Doom 3 has got something 
 about it that makes it special. Mainly, I believe the precise tweaking game developers have put 
 into the control layout makes this game a snap for any gamer young to old. Also, the enemies may 
 not be the brightest things in the universe but do deliver a challenge at times, especially when 
 they jump out at you without warning. This will amke you on edge at all times, especially in dark 
 areas (99% of this game is dark rooms) which makes the flashlight feature ever so useful. Gun kickback 
 also adds a dose of realism into this shooter, making it harder to see straight when shooting and 
 throwing your aim off slightly enough that you must readjust your firearm while shooting.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The screenshots which gamespot has nicely arranged for you viewing speaks 
 for itself. The game is a well polished and nicley furbished epic adventure. Your weapons gleem 
 with reflections from what little light is present. Really, the only problem with the graphics 
 in this game is common among many first person games, the floating carcass effect. In other words, 
 you can't see your feet, some games incorperate this simply for the sake of realism, such as F. E. A. R.
 
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Sound is a key to the effect this game impacts the gamer. Every sound will have you looking around 
 frantically in suspision of a sneak attack. Many sounds will make the player twitch or jump, depending 
 on the subtleness and volume, also the situation given by the game.
  
  All who enjoy first person shooters, particularly those who enjoy PC FPS games, you must give this 
 game a chance to make you an avid shooter-upper. I give the developers from I. D kudos on making 
 such a great game and for making it lengthy enough to satisfy the gaming crave. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_6483
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  This is a game worth playing. every minute of it was insanly awesome. the dark rooms and highly 
 detailed monsters realy brought out the best in my PC. the guns were amazingly detailed, like everything 
 else, and reloaded fast enough to never slow the action down one bit. not being able to use the 
 flashlight with the gun was a little annoying at times, but losing an enemy in a dark room then 
 pulling the flashlight to find him right in front of me scared the hell out of me countless times. 
 This game wasnt very hard but that was a good thing, because like the old dooms, i like to run 
 into a room , kill everything, and move on without haseling to flank and decieve my oponents. 
 
  
  This game is one of, if not the best game i've ever played... and yes, i had my "brave" freind 
 play it in the dark and laughed every time i heard him scream "HOLY **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottAdams
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 3, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  A great FPS -- straight-forward, big weapons, neat mods. But why is the trend in FPSs to have them 
 so dark you can't really see anything. I get the "boogyman jumping out at you" thing, but it gets 
 tiresome.
  
  Let us see the graphics. If the d@mn environment can run televisions and camera systems, it can 
 have lights. I miss the original where you could run around and see your enemy from across the 
 room and slaughter them. Now everythign must be killed at point blank.
  
  Other than that, it is a fun shoot-em-up. Great creatures, great sounds, and a simple interface. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingworldwide
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is good with or without mods being of the multiplayer coop or deathmatch games. This 
 game is worth the buy for either muliplayer or singleplayer but the best thing about it is the 
 mods people make for the game. The single player is decent with a decent gameplay and storyline. 
 Although the gameplay does get like running around in circles doing the same thing again and again 
 which is what the Doom series mainly is. Firstoff this game has pretty good graphics the only problem 
 is that you can't see them so it off since the game is mostly in the dark. The game takes place 
 on Mars where you are a Marine stationed there to protect the facility from any threat. There is 
 realism in the game where it tells how a facillity on Mars called the UNSC builds a foundation 
 so human beings can live on Mars. The guns and enemies are fun to play with since enemies are always 
 after you with either chainsaws or machine guns or watever HELL can throw at you! Yes this game 
 is about where a portal to Hell opens and demons destory the facillity which is where you come 
 in and destroy the demons and the gate to Hell. The guns in the game are fun to get and to play 
 with. There are simple weapons like a pistol, shot gun, machinegun an a plasma gun but then there 
 special weapons like a CHAINSAW and the Soul cube that you can play with =) which are really fun 
 to kill enemies with. Tho my personal favorites are the gatling gun, shotgun, chainsaw, soul cube, and 
 BFG 9000. I reccommend you should buy this game! Have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 1, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Interplanetary research facility is invaded by monsters that came through the portal from another 
 dimension and they thirst for human blood. The portal was opened by researchers on purpose, but 
 nobody knew that a horrible thing like that will happen. All facility is on alert, people turning 
 into zombies, enemies appearing suddenly out of thin air, and you, as a guard of this huge structure 
 have a task now to save as many civilians as possible and to kill as many beasts there as you can 
 find.
  Encounters with monsters mostly come up in the poorly lightened areas, and can be sudden or may 
 be attacked from the back. Some creatures use some kind of magic powers as their attack. Proper 
 enemies must be dealt with properly. In the game you'll have enouh weapons to send all of your 
 foes to hell and, actually, the whole facility altogether (seems like it should, but not actually 
 does it) .
  Dozens of bosses to kill, intriguing audio records to listen to, secret archives to read to - learn 
 about the accident by exploring further and into the pit of hell at the end, world, that holds 
 the source, the monster generator.
  If you want to survive, know how to handle big guns and to handle situation nicely if you're outnumbered. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathtok
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is not a new chapter in the Doom saga but a complete re-envisioning of the original release. 
 id Software has created a new engine to debut with this highly-anticipated release. The story has 
 you on Mars with a bit of introduction about "experiments" before you find a frenzied scientist 
 that has accidentally helped to open the gates to hell.
  
  The first thing you'll notice is impressive graphics. There is a style in this engine that is very 
 smooth and scales to a variety of low-to-high end configurations. The engine overall is impressive 
 with some of the better graphics you'll see. The palette uses mostly dark tones though and by game's 
 end the style can be a bit boring.
  
  The sound is another top-notch work. The voices are acted well and the screams to match. There 
 are some great frightening moments that add to Doom's atmosphere. When the lights go out and you 
 start hearing crawling and moans you're bound to jump.
  
  Doom 3 stays true to the FPS genre and doesn't try to reinvent the wheel. That being said there 
 are some issues here. This game is nothing but run and gun fanfare and it's fun. The fatal (and 
 now infamous) flaw is that id opted not to have a flashlight attachment to your gun. This leaves 
 you toggling between your flashlight and weapon too often. Scripted scenes provide little interaction 
 but they do set up where you'll need to go next. 
  
  Then there is the multi-player. Like most games, I really didn't like the MP here. I played it 
 "out of the box" before the patches were releases so there may have been improvement. My experience 
 was that it was over before it began. The levels were cramped and there was an heir of confusion.
 
  
  For FPS fans Doom 3 will inevitably be a must. It's not a bad game but the flashlight problem seriously 
 detracts from the fun. Without strong multi-player one play through will be enough for most fans. 
 Come equipped with a good PC and the graphics will impress you if nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theproject
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  The first hour or so of the game is good... but could be better... You start with a **** pistol 
 that needs 5 shots to kill a zombie... it doesn't really matter if u shoot'em in the head or the 
 leg. it's stupid... Then you finally get a shotgun.. again with the same problem, although the shotgun 
 is more powerfull the monsters you run to are much tougher than zombies, so you are always with 
 a feeling that you are trying to kill HELL CREATURES w/ almost your bare hands..
  
  However the game has two things which are really good: the visuals are awesome and you get scared 
 every 30s or so... with really simple things like a piece of metal falling from the ceiling in front 
 of you or the power going out etc...
  
  BUT it gets annoying and repetitive.... always the same environments everything too dark to see 
 (you have a flashlight but you can't use when you need to fire... cool... trying to shoot creatures 
 from hell isn't hard enough you have to do it in complete darkness.. wtf?? ) .
  
  AI has good and bad things... good things is that they hide and try to flank you.. thats cool. 
 BAD: even when everything is complete darkness they can see and shoot you eventhough you CAN'T 
 see them!
  
  Maybe a personal opinion here but weapons suck! Eventually i got so bored and dissappointed of 
 the game that i decided to give it a last chance by putting the all weapons cheat (let's see if 
 they are cool or not) wel... the same disapointment: **** pistol, **** shotgun, grenades totally 
 useless in total darkness because they bounce in god knows what and you get killed in the process 
 ; plasma gun again is too damn weak, even to kill a posessed marine it takes lots of rounds and 
 finally the BFG9000 is the only weapon that has power, too much power but that's ok since i wasn't 
 supposed to use it in such weak creatures.
  
  I'm a fan of FPS but i won't waste time playing this, don't like the guns, nor the enemies (whats 
 up with that flying skulls???) nor the environment... even the scary part of the game gets boring 
 because after the first 1000 jumps of the chair you know something is gonna happen and there it 
 is.. the lights go off again and 30 creatures are spawned.. who would figure that?
  
  I played quake4, it has the same 3D engine, much better environment, much cooler levels and weapons 
 ,much funnier especially trying to avoid homing missiles and making the perfect headshot miles 
 away... Did i mention that doom is an FPS without the concept of headshot??! stupid.. 
  
  Bottom line is: get this if you are a true doom series fan, if you are an FPS fan, even an hardcore 
 one : there are better FPS out there. cya 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerKaCe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Well you start off as a marine on mars as a security officer. You are in command of Master seargent 
 Kelly. You have to find a missing scientist ... and when you find him... DOOM BEGINS. This game Doom 
 3 is very fun to play its exciting scary and fun all the way through. The game is kind of predictable 
 like when you have to link up with your squad in Mars city... of course they all get taken down 
 just before you meet them your alone. You think that you can meet up with Master seargent Kelly 
 in an instant... no you have to go through five more levels... which does get a little annoying knowing 
 that you have to go through a lot of stuff to do one objective, but it does remain cool and fun 
 you can grab other peoples ppc's and find out codes to get ammo from locked closets. You can use 
 all kinds of cool weapons like chainsaws and stuff cool magnum weapons and others. The game has 
 great graphics too even from a game thats from 2003 thats why its a 10. It also sounds great to 
 like hearing monsters scream and moaning voices. It does pack a real punch by making all sorts 
 of scary monster to blast the heck out of 'em. The environments are mainly the same all the time 
 like seeing science labs and pipelines too. Things do pop out at to to sometimes make you laugh... but 
 not many times. If you are not new to PC games then the controls are easy and same 'ol same old. 
 It is a game that really gives you a challenge even on easy mode. The games multiplayer pretty 
 much sucks on Doom 3, not like Call of Duty and others, but its single player is awsome. This game 
 is a game you should buy on the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  This is doom3. but it realy isnt it is like doom1. Doom 1 was a great game but with little or no 
 story line this game fills in all the gaps that were missing from doom1.
  Gameplay 8/10
  The story line is awesome and h as lots of plot twists but other wise its the same thing. Running 
 from point a to point b with monsters in between. This game isnt as gory as most games but it still 
 is kinda of gory cause when you kill someone they turn into a bone but i dont really like that. 
 The multiplayer is so bad. It supports only 4 people while games like counter strike can support 
 32. And Delta force can have 64.
  Graphics 10/10
  This game is the first game to use the doom 3 engine. many games soon will also use the engine 
 a fail trying. for examble quake 4 and prey which recently came out. when you play theses game 
 you just keep thinking this looks just like doom3. but still the graphics are amazing but at the 
 price of efficency. This game will only run on very high end computers. i cant even run (run as 
 in running 30 fps or higher) this game at 640/480 with every thing turned low with a geforce 5500.
 
  Sound5/10
  It has average voice acting and there is little or no music at all. all you hear is some retarded 
 zombie moans.
  value 4/10
  This game is mainly single player and many people wish to play this online but there were dissapointed 
 that they could only play single player. This game has little or no replay value. because once 
 you beat it you just dont want to run through all the dungeons one more time even though now the 
 ai are stronger smarter and faster.
  Reviewer's Tilt 6/10
  This game is mainly a game to introduce new ways of killing things with cool weapons that do cool 
 things. I like the story line i guess:) nice try doom but try harder to impress me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  While Doom 3 fails to recreate the unique atmosphere of its predecessor, it is still a very good 
 first-person shooter and a worthy heir to the original Doom series. The thing that I like best 
 about this game is that enemies always come at you unexpectedly; sometimes you can tell that youre 
 about to be attacked, but you never know by whom, or from which direction. This element of unpredictability 
 certainly adds to the games suspense; it never lets you relax. The battles themselves are quite 
 realistic (if a monster strikes you, for instance, you reel from the blow) and difficult even on 
 the easier levels: dont expect the enemies to make it easy for you. Another pleasant thing is 
 the great variety of enemies, something that Doom 3s main rival, Half-Life 2, so sadly lacks. 
 What is a bit disappointing is the repetitiveness of the levels; Hell provides a nice change, but 
 its too short, and it mightve been more impressive. On the whole, however, Doom 3 is a must for 
 every fan of the FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_gable
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a sci-fi horror game. The series is well known and this is the best in the series. It 
 has great gameplay, graphics, and story. Firt off the gameplay, the gameplay is pretty much like 
 every other First Person Shooter you move, shoot, reload, jump, and crawl. The graphics look very 
 nice and smooth in this game. It looks very good using the Doom 3 engine. Has real shadows so there 
 are dark and light places that add suspense to the game and made it more scarier than the previous 
 titles. The story is that your a marine and your sent to Mars to investigate and end up getting 
 attacked my demons. I don't want to tell to much about it because it could spoil some of the fun. 
 This is a must play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeGates
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Oh Doom you never let us down especially in this wonderfully gory 3D title. this game has everything, 
 except a happy ending, unicorn, teddy bears etc. etc. I mean you have to stop and appretciate the 
 wonderfully detailed graphic, the creepy music that only adds to the hooric atmosphere of the game. 
 It has a great selection of weapons, you can kick some gold ol' ass with the shotgun, or tear through 
 every enemie in a bloody satisfying fashion with your chainsaw. you will pick up this game and 
 play it hour after our to try to get past every twist and turn throughout its impressive gameplay. 
 Did I mention that you will crap your pants at its horrifying thrills. this is a truly great tiltle 
 so if you have a pc or xbox and the money I suggest you go out buy this game... NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lesner87
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  hey there first of all for those of you who have not played this game yet its already pretty old 
 but still worth your time.
  
  Doom 3 is a First Person Shooter game which takes place somewhere after the year 2095 at a research 
 facility on Mars known as "UAC". However unfortunately the company with such a safety record starts 
 suffering horrible things, as an army of hellish creatures is unleashed at the facility.
  
  Your role in the game starts of with a calm and peaceful marine arriving at the facility for security 
 due to the many mishaps of workers. Even sometime before the demons are unleashed accidents start 
 to take off,, some workers just go missing and the others go nuts. As when you go for your first 
 mission for finding another missing scientist the hell is unlocked.
  
  So you carry your huge spirit through out the long battle with the hellish creatures. Most of your 
 men are dead so DO NOT expect any partnership battle,, however there is one little spider like droid 
 which carries loads of firepower and will also help you in some parts of the game. Anyways most 
 of the time you play alone solving puzzles, unlocking doors, killing beasts etc. in simple words ---
 
  
  GRAPHICS::The graphics are extremely beautiful and intense. I myself played this game after playing 
 FEAR but it didnt disappoint me at all. The shaders are so great that once you put your flash light 
 on somethings the thing emits another whole new shadow!!!!! the lightning effects are simply superb 
 you will know that once you fight with your plasma rifle. The engine was whole new at the time of 
 Doom 3 so you should expect very nice graphics.
  
  SOUND:::The sound is very scary which suits to the game becoming marvelous. Once you go in some 
 creepy dark place you might find a horrific type of sound so the sound is very nice.
  
  GAMEPLAY::with a good sound and good graphics theses things add up to gameplay making it much better. However 
 the style of gameplay is sort of boring for those of you who play fast paced games,, thats simple 
 because the gameplay drags you along the same things again and again but anyways since new things 
 are introduced through out the game so it does not get that much boring.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  BAD POINTS::there would be many bad points which were remained unnoticed when doom 3 was released, for 
 example.
  
  1) Flashlight problem-your in the year 2095+ and you dont have a gun which has an attached flash 
 light!!!!!! wow even nowadays we have guns which have an attached flashlight to them.
  
  2) The Light system::first of all even in my own room with one tube-light on my whole room is brightened 
 including all of the corners!!!! but in this game with the lobby or a room having more than four-five 
 tube-lights and several hydrogen bulbs,, the darkness remains... weird???? in the future the lightning 
 system will be greater than now for sure so whats happening to doom 3???
  
  3) Difficulty::If you play the game on lowest difficulty as you progress it gets very hard due to 
 lack of ammo and more and more enemies approaching and popping out of corners. The zombie soldiers 
 carrying shotguns have all of their shots right on target i. e. on us and when they hit us we bounce 
 back about 5-6 feet!!!!!! but in true world even if you are hit with a spas 12 you are never pulled 
 back from the force of bullet. AS the newton`s second law explains it saying every action has an 
 equal and opposite reaction!!!! so how can you possibly bounce back 6 feet????
  
  4) Are we there yet????::the game is so repetitive that even if the new things are added it eventually 
 gets boring. because you are fighting the same things again and again and again with ammo some times 
 finishing so it really knocks your head.. and dont expect the game taking you to the end easily 
 its very hard to get to the end you would have to fight through out. You will know that once you 
 play the game. Its not a game like Call of Duty or Far Cry or Half Life 2 which do entertain you 
 within the game. But it simply drags you on and makes you go nuts.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  CONCLUSION::The game is worth a try even if it has some bad points because its very nice. So dont 
 miss this one esp FPS lovers however for those of you who are not interested in fps games you havent 
 missed much but it still is worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  After playing this game, I can tell you right off the bat that this is indeed an instant classic 
 for the first-person-shooter genre. id's Doom 3 does not stray too far off the series and is very 
 straight-forward in terms of gameplay and the storyline. For those who have not played the game: 
 You are a marine who is sent off to Mars to help protect a company called the UAC , famous for 
 its scientific research and experiments. Unfortunately for you, demonic beasts suddenly invade 
 the company's facility and you are thrown right in the midst of battle. You must fight back the 
 hordes of enemies and stop them before it becomes too late. I don't want to go into the details 
 right now, but I can only say that this game is very scary. Creatures can pop out of nowhere, so 
 watch your back.
  
  Positives: 1) The first positive in my list for Doom 3 are, of course, the graphics. Even playing 
 a game which is 2 years old, I was still amazed by the beauty of the graphics. The lighting and 
 shadows look realistic if you have decent computer hardware. 2) The sound is absolutely excellent. 
 The voice acting is not terrible at all. Walk into a room and you can suddenly start hearing the 
 enemy before you even see them. Turn around, and they are right behind you. I was stunned by the 
 quality of the sound. Negatives:
  
  1) Repetitiveness. Sadly, this game suffers from too much of the same thing. Alot of times in the 
 game, you'll end up feeling you've been there already or the rooms look alike (as well as characters 
 in the game) . The gameplay consists of simply walking and shooting at the enemy. This can get tiring, 
 though there are a few moments in the game where you'll be able to take a break from all this 'repetitiveness' 
 (such as different attempts at helping you complete an objective; sometimes you'll receive some 
 help by others in walking you through a path full of enemies which can get fun) . Some objectives 
 also feel the same, like trying to find an item to open a door lock or trying to find a switch 
 to activate something. 2) Replay value. This game has poor replay value. Once finished, I don't 
 think you'd want to beat the entire game again. After beating the entire game for the first time, 
 this will unlock a ultra difficult mode called nightmare . Usually, people will head on to the 
 multiplayer segment of the game. To my dismay, Doom 3's online multiplayer is nowhere near 'good'. 
 It's only 'okay', offering modes with deathmatch, team deathmatch, tournament and lastmanstanding. 
 Playing the online segment is so bland. There is hardly a variety of good weapons and is a simple 
 run and shoot. If you want a better description of the multiplayer, it is Halo online without vehicles, 
 good maps, weapons and game modes. Doom 3 multiplayer looks and feels like Halo online, only without 
 those things mentioned. Conclusion:
  
  Doom 3 is a great single-player game. If you are not a cowardly gamer afraid of too much terror 
 and excitement, and are looking for games with gorgeous graphics and sound, this is the game for 
 you. But don't expect much in the multiplayer and in the repetitive gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wafflehead
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was without a doubt, one of the most hyped and talked about game since Half-Life 1. After 
 Doom 3 was released there was alot of criticism surrounding this game often referred to many people 
 as a let down. I'm not going to go into too much detail with this review as there are well over 
 700 reviews on this website so I'll keep it short and simple. 
  
  Some people love classic old-school shooters like these where you just pretty much kill anything 
 that moves with a dull storyline. Others don't. I personally enjoy first person shooters such as 
 these but I felt the storyline was way to weak and dull for my taste. On the other hand, there 
 are a few things in this game that makes it definetely worthy of a good rating. I felt some of 
 the pros in this included the amazing and realistic graphics, the sound in this game, I can hardly 
 put to words. The screeches and roars of the monsters are truly terrifying along with the dark 
 and dead silence of zombies sneaking up behind you all will make you feel a little insecure at 
 times. This game takes place in an extremely dark setting throughout the entire game. Simply put, 
 you will never be safe. There will always be monsters around throwing you around, sucking your 
 blood, shooting at you, smacking you, etc. This is the genuine feeling sci-fi shooter fans dream 
 of. Doom 3 will put you on the edge of your seat throughout the entire game but don't be suprised 
 if you suddenly feel turned off by some of the same repetitive, daunting tasks. My advice; take 
 a day or two break and you'll be craving for Doom again. It's just that type of a game. The story 
 tends to drag on for awhile where for one moment you think the game is about to end and it just 
 keeps going to the point where it's just sort of annoying and more of a job to beat the game then 
 for the pure joy of killing ugly space creatures. 
  
  Pros:
  -Amazing, realistic graphics
  -Truly remarkable and groundbreaking sound
  -Scary setting that 
 keeps you on the edge of your seat every minute of the game
  -Just plain fun
  
  Cons:
  -Slow and dull storyline
  -Too long, game seems to drag
  -Some noticeable bugs
  -A very annoying 
 villain who isn't even scary when he trys ;)
  
  All in all, I had quite a blast playing this game but my advice is if you want to have the most 
 enjoyable time with this game is, do not try to beat this game all in one sitting. It will get 
 boring and repetitive. If you take frequent breaks and play for a reasonable amount of time, this 
 is one game you won't have regret purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinheadrex1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the game i was really exited. But after a few hours it got boring. it felt like 
 I was dooin the same part of the game over and over again. It only has 4 bosses in the game and 
 there not very tough. Its also realy anoing how dark it is if ur not usin the duck tape mod.
  On the upside the graphics are prety good, and the controls are pretty easy. And its just plain fun 
 to tear through a fat zombie with a chinsaw.
  The weapons in the game are also very nice, The best weapon has got to be the shotgun but i think 
 the chainsaw is the most fun. The game does a great game of spooking you with its great graphics 
 and sound, and theres more then a few freaky things.
  Overall the games fun and I recomend for all the doom fans to buy it but if ur not a fan of the 
 series rent it first and see how u like it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: relset
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is worth the long-long wait in a way, but in the other way it was a dissapointment. Me was 
 a doom and doom 2 fan, and doom 3 gives me nothing more than awesome grafics, that don`t even run 
 on my PC, so when Doom 3 comes out I`ve played Doom 2 again from the begining to the end. It was 
 a bit old but still holds more fun in it like D3.
  By the way I can say that I`ve finished Doom 3 five times and RoE 2 times, even at nightmare difficulty 
 2 times, but I think that it is a bit slow, I do not need to kill lots of monsters in the same 
 times and the weapons e. g. rocket launcher do not have it`s power like in D2, at least in single 
 player.
  Finally, doom 3 is still a good game, but I`ve expected more from ID software, as a third installment, 
 D3 do not suit the needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroneVirus
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is one of my favorite games, though the story could use some more touching up. One of my 
 main concerns about the story is it doesn't stick to the books. Of course the books were released 
 before Doom 3, but it wouldnt hurt to stay to the story. I have read the first two books of Doom 
 and frankly im disappointed by the fact that I. D didnt stay to such a good story line., But Doom 
 3 has its ups. The graphics are amazing, the game play is solid, and the suspence of Doom 3 is 
 just to high. Doom 3 is an over the average game. Though Doom 3 has some impurities in the sword, 
 its still one of my favorite games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kebn
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is not for the faint of heart, the paranoid or the weak stomached. Playing this game 
 alone in the dark with headphones at full blast is one of the most enjoyable if un-nerving experiances 
 you can have with a game, while many players of the game wont admit to being freaked out, deep 
 down its hard not to be, the opressive indoor settings really set a gritty and true sci-fi horror 
 mood for the whole game, (the fact that the game is all indoors will put alot of people off, but 
 the game wouldnt have as much horror apeal as it does otherwise) Its a true thriller of a game 
 and very entertaining, and playing it on your own is very different than have someone in the room 
 watching you play it. Having a decent set of headphones is very useful, for not only improving 
 the sound, but to alert you to enemies lurking behind you, which happens alot.
  
  THE STORY - this game is basically a remake of the origional, you are a soldier deported to mars 
 to work at the Union Aerospace Corporation complex in Mars city (labs that conduct experiments 
 seen as inhumane on earth) , an experiment to open a teleportation field between the planet an the 
 2 moons of mars, phobos and deimos has resulted in the gates of hell being opened and the struggle 
 for survival begins.
  
  SOUND/GRAPHICS - The graphics in this game are stunning, although i dont care what a games graphics 
 look like. The sound is very good, apart from the guns, they just dont have the 'umpf' they should 
 have.
  
  GAMEPLAY - Dark, really, really dark! the lights in the facility often fail causing you to have 
 to use your flash light which is separate to your gun (this gets alot of criticism too, but its 
 one of the reasons the game is so creepy, and i like it) random corpses can rise from the dead 
 and rogue survivors can turn on you at any second, you cant trust anything! The style of the game 
 is really old school, staying true to the origional doom games, you are alone for most of the game, 
 the enemies are fast and very effective when it comes to killing things, and the variations of 
 enemies are quite large again sticking to the origional doom monsters. one of the coolest things 
 about this game is the amount of different zombie models used, you rarely see 2 zombies that look 
 exactly alike, if you do theyre so far apart in the game that you dont notice.
  
  FIRST IMPRESSIONS - very cool, good action, wonderfully violent, chilling and creepy settings/locations
 
  
  LASTING IMPRESSIONS - no real change ^^ overall a very fun game to play
  
  PROS - terrifyingly fun, exciting, decent length, challenging enough, wonderful graphics, good 
 variations of enemies
  
  CONS - guns dont sound very powerful (a mod can fix that) , multiplayer isnt great, its really not 
 suited to everyone
  
  this is just my opinion, the game has its flaws which some might take more of a dislike to than 
 others, but overall this is a game worth getting if you enjoy a good survival horror game, be sure 
 to check out other reviews that destroy this game too, to get their views on the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  Story: You are a unnamed space marine sent to mars to sort out this portal problem where demons 
 are coming through and killing everyone in sight
  
  Graphics: Pros-Models look amazingly realistic, weapons look nice, environments are well detailed
 
  Cons-Lack of variety of environments, barely any outdoor sections
  
  Sound: Pros-Special effect sounds really put you on edge throughout the whole game, voice acting 
 is solid
  Cons-Guns sound shamefully weak, barely any ambient music
  
  Game play: Pros-Good straightforward shoot anything that moves gameplay, nice simple puzzles keep 
 the action from getting too much
  Cons-Enemy AI isnt very bright (Most just run straight at you) , can get pretty repetitive towards 
 the end
  
  Replay Value: The single player game is surprisingly long that it will take you about 15-20 hours 
 to complete and it also includes a 8 player multi player mode but its very laggy and severely lacking 
 in depth
  
  Overall: Doom 3 is an great old school fps that looks fantastic and has just enough scares to keep 
 you going until the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik677
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  --------------
  Gameplay in Doom 3 is mixed. You start with no weapons and gradually as you progress through the 
 game you pick up bigger and better things to create as much carnage as you can with. After a fun 
 walk through the base at the start you collect your first weapon and the excitement begins. As 
 much fun as it is to shoot the assorted baddies in this game it does feel a bit linear. The pacing 
 of this game seems odd also, I felt that it was a much more intense experience in the first few 
 levels making it get easier as you move through the base and eventually take a trip to Hell. 
 
  
  Graphics
  ------------
  What can you say about graphics in Doom 3. The whole game looks amazing. Even on a computer that 
 just meets the minimum requirements you are going to have incredibly detailed rich environments 
 to play in. The only thing it lacks is open spaces. 
  
  Sound
  ---------
  Sound on Doom 3 is ok. As you move through the levels there are a few places where the sound really 
 is chilling. The varied creepy sound effects set an atmosphere which is creepy and chilling at 
 times. 
  The down side is the weapons. They just don't sound like they could punch a hole in a paper bag 
 let alone cut down hordes of demons. 
  
  Value
  -------
  If you are a fan of old style FPS games then this game provides incredible value. You will enjoy 
 this ride from the moment you get off the shuttle at Mars right through until the end.
  If you are looking for a modern gaming experience then perhaps this isnt the game for you.
  
 
  Overall
  ---------
  Doom 3 is an excellent game with a reasonably long single player campaign but has a very limited 
 multiplayer option. While it does become a bit predictable in the second half of the single player 
 campaign, there is just enough mayhem and carnage involved to keep you playing right to the end.
 
  In conclusion Doom 3 offers an excellent gaming experience without bringing offering anything 
 new in terms of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctaStrangelov
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Highs: Excellent sound and graphics, cool weapons and enemies, really fun battles, interesting 
 take on darkness and your flashlight.
  
  Lows: Can be a bit tedious, linear and repetitive. Overall gameplay is nothing new.
  
  Doom 
 3 was not my most wanted game for 2004, I wanted Half-Life 2, Unreal tournement 2004 and FarCry 
 alot more. But while I was very eagerly awaiting this game compared to the other games of that 
 year, such as the forementioned ones and others like Rome Total War, Doom 3 is below average if 
 those games are average. While that is like saying that the excellent Mad Max would be a below 
 average action film is the average was Dirty Harry, which was an utterly amazing, unsurpassed action 
 film. So you know that I like Doom 3 (and classic movies) but also hold much of its competition 
 in higher regard. 
  
  Doom 3 presumes Doom and Doom 2 never happened and unlike those games it has a plot. The finer 
 deatails of the plot are explained via E-Mails you find on people's PDAs, and the plot is as follows: 
 The UCA found rune stone on Mars that explain teleportaion, thier head scientist, Malcom Bertuguer 
 creates a portal based on the found designs and it teleports him and other teams to Hell. While 
 all others exposed to Hell go insane and have very odd things physically happen, Burtruger just 
 acts odd, until he is visited by the UCA chairman who asks him to shut the Hell research down, 
 then he opens the portal and unleahes the Deamons onto Mars, with the intention of bringing them 
 to Earth. As Generic Space Marine number 666 (okay that is not your name, you get the picture) 
 you must repell the invasion and prevent it from reaching Earth. To me this is too similar to the 
 plot of the first Quake but most people do to admin that there is a plot in Quake so id can get 
 away with it.
  
  You fight through the research station in a manor similar to Half-Life, but with Deamons jumping 
 out of the closet and apperating in flaming pentgrams. Which is fun and the bad guys are cool just 
 like the weapons you fight them with. Because there is alot of damage done to the station there 
 are many areas without sufficent light, in most games this is gotten around by using a flashlight 
 on a gun, helmet, hasard suit et cetera but in Doom 3 you need to pull out your flashlight when 
 there is darkness, this is a cool gameplay feature and adds exitment to alot of battles in the 
 dark. 
  
  While Doom 3 isa bit on the generic side the game is still very fun and something almost all shooter 
 fans will enjoy, but some may not like the feeling that this game is too similar to other games 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hall0559
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Theres something about Doom3... overhyped, over advertised, over pressured... After so much abuse 
 what did we expect?
  
  Lets be honest we expected  type fun. 
  
  If you 
 own the game. Re-read the Review Deck. Tell everyone in your life to go get bent for a weekend, 
 disconnect the phone and turn off the cell-i-o, because you need 8-12 hours of free time to take 
 care of bid'ness (thats business ya squares) .
  
  Also... this really does sound crazy, either turn off the A/C or turn on the heat a little, get 
 your playing area ncie and hot... like near uncomfortable hot. You do go to hell ya know.
  
  (This Reviewer is not liable for any injuryies related to personal opinions, unless kama sutra 
 was involved and then you can hold it against me. Get it?)
  
  Sit down, no lights, hook up your surround sound (dont tell me you dont have one, I bet you have 
 a stero system somewhere in your house, hook that up to the computer) maybe have some water ready, 
 turn off your expectations and what everyone else (except this reviewer) has said, and just play. 
 Play Hard, Play Fast, Rocket Launcher Skely bothering you? Bam 3-4 shotgun blasts at point blank 
 aughta do it.
  
  Video Disk? Watch em. Audio Logs? Listen to em. Emails? Read em.
  Or dont. But try to BE that marine. Try to give it your style. If your a head busting motherfuxker 
 be that. If your a sneaky Intellegence ninja, Do your thang.
  
  Ok now that you think I've lost my mind I'll wrap up with the a point.
  Doom3 escalates the whole 
 way through the game, in a way I havent felt in another game before, reaching each new area I could 
 feel the game getting more and more on my nerves, threatining to eat my brain and give me nightmares. 
 (I cant be the only one who dreams of a game after playing for 12 hours straight right?) But you 
 have to be there, ready and willing like a hot prom date to Give It Up and immerse yourself!
  
  You owe it to yourself to play for at least 6 hours straight of doom3.
  
  If you dont come 
 out with sweaty hands, red face, high pulse....
  Go back in and turn UP the difficulty you uber gamer you!
  
  Seriously, doom3 was complely 
 over hyped, and as a result we all bought it and went "Oh wow this is awesome... awesome... bored." 
 Kind like your first time, the glory was over fast... Well either give it another shot or just 
 get better prepaired for your first time. 
  
  Do it hard, do it hot, do it right. (the video game)
  
  Peace Out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  doom 3 was a very very very good game.. One thing that really was fun for me in this game was in 
 the beginning when you could go into the lobby or the mess hall or whatever it was and play that 
 awesome arcade game. That game was by far the thing that made this game awesome... no I'm just 
 kidding. It was fun though, the gameplay is what made this awesome. I had so much fun running around 
 and blasting creatures and trying to fight my way through them. Some of them were a pain in the 
 butt. This game is grea but dwayne "the rock" johnson and the movie ruined the fun for me. That 
 movie was horrible and it made me lose about 10 respect points for the game because it had a movie 
 come out for it... play the game because its great but don't watch the movie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eugeneluah
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Extremely repetitive, shallow and boring gameplay. The developers spent too much time programming 
 the engine, and forgot to make a game. The first 1/2hr of gameplay is pretty much representative 
 of things to come for the rest of the game. There is a surprising focus given to the game, although 
 that merely make story inconsistencies stick out like a really sore thumb. Disappointing even though 
 i had no expectations of it. Graphics alone dont justify a crappy game. Get Quake IV, its a much 
 better game, and multiplayer replayability is high, since its going to be the standard for professional 
 deathmatch competitions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loyed
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  this game was awsome, i loved it! It had awsome elements of gameplay, it was scary, violent, action 
 packed. I liked the fact that you dont know whats going to jump out and attack you, you always 
 have to have your guard up. It is like the original doom except with better storyline and graphics. 
 This game is a must have for all people who like shooter games. To add to the action it has a multiplayer 
 online mode thats wicked fun. This is my favorite game by far! Its hard too, not like other shooters 
 that are easy and everything has one hit kills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondje89
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Well all remember the legendary DOOM that was released on to the PC about ten years ago. It was 
 quite a stunning adventure with lots of enemies to take down with either a shotgun or a all destroying 
 chainsaw. Not long after DOOM, DOOM II was already released with the same awesome gameplay as its 
 predecessor. Now, finally after lots of Game of theYear editions and all of that other stuff, 
 DOOM III finally came to the light and tries to be just as legendary and awesome like its predecessors.
 
  
  DOOM III is making use of its own designed engine called the DOOM-engine. Which will be seen in 
 future games a QUAKE 4 and Prey for the PC and Xbox 360. The graphics of the DOOM-engine are over 
 the top indeed, and are almost better than everything else out there.
  
  Now, to start to review this game, Ill begin with the gameplay. DOOM III is set on Mars ,somewhere 
 in the distance future, on a U. S. marine station where secret scientific operations are about to 
 begin with a big failure. You, the marine with no name, is sent to replace the posts of other marine 
 soldier that left the planet cause of strange things going on. Not much later, youll discover 
 that the operation that was going was to make a gate open to, the one and only, world of hell. 
 
  
  So, hell breaks loose and everyone turns into zombies, how original. And for some lame reason you 
 are the only that isnt having a hard time fighting the zombies or turning into one like your fellow 
 marine soldiers. So, youll also figure out that hell sends demons to well youll never know, 
 since the scientists opened a gate to hell. Of course youll get loads of guns that are far beyond 
 the weight and size a normal person can carry. But hey, youre a Arnold Schwarzenegger that cant 
 talk and doesnt have a name. Anyway back to the guns. The massive gun fights you have will never 
 get interesting. Its not cause of the graphics, sound or variety of the weapons, but its about 
 the enemies you face. The creators wanted to make you afraid to play this game. Well, it worked 
 for the first 40 mins. Later, it just gets predicting. You hear the sounds in front of you, so 
 that means hes behind you jumping down a rail etc. Just gets old. The whole campaign will be completed 
 in less than 7 hours. 
  
  Then there is the multiplayer. It just doesnt fit the whole game. The options youll have are 
 Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and CTF. The modes are fun to play, but the point is, you cant play 
 up more than 4 players. Which is really sad. But on the other hand, DOOM III doesnt have any vehicles 
 or open terrain landscapes to play with. To me, the multiplayer was nothing but useless. 
  
  Like I said, the DOOM-Engine is unbelievable good looking in almost every way you can think 
 of. The full use of the DOOM III engine will truly come alive when youre about in the middle of 
 the game. Here youll see lots of different light effects that will shine down upon a wall ,or 
 anything else, and will show you how good looking this game really is. Also, the texture level 
 is pretty well done. Of course, there is no game that doesnt have repeating textures, but DOOM 
 III does a great job on making that not visible. In overall, the games graphics engine is just 
 amazing to look at. Real beauty.
  
  As for the sounds, it aint really some special. It does sound good, but it isnt as amazing as 
 the graphics that the engine has. Though, the quality might not be very impressive, the way the 
 game developers used it was pretty sweet. The effects of falling bullet shells and screaming demons 
 sounds pretty realistic, but the screaming of demons doesnt feel very interesting since you can 
 already predict where they come from when you hear them in front of you. Yeah thats right, then 
 they are behind you and same goes for the opposite position in the game.
  
  The playing value of DOOM III is rather disappointing. The game was way to hyped to become as perfect 
 like the graphics. The campaign will be easily beaten in about 7 hours or even less. And the multiplayer 
 mode doesnt feel really needed cause of its lack of greater weapons, vehicles and player amount. 
 The game if a great experience in the dark on a stormy night and to beat the game once. But after 
 youve done that, you can just throw the game in the box of other used games that you wont play 
 for another 4 months.
  
  DOOM III is indeed a great experience to play once when youre all alone at home in the dark on 
 a stormy night. But it doesnt feel like the great shooter Activision promised us a few years ago. 
 The campaign is only around 7 hours long and isnt that hard to beat and the multiplayer just feels 
 useless cause of it lack of great options. But, the graphics are really something jaw dropping. 
 But thats all. In overall, the game is great, and should be played by anyone who loves a FPS game 
 with a horror genre.
  
  Good points
  
  +Perfect looking graphics
  +Great horror feeling
  +Demons might give you a scare
  +Lots of zombies to kill!
  
  Bad 
 points
  
  -Lots of zombies to kill
  -Campaign gets old and is short
  -Multiplayer isnt really needed
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beedubaya
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a game that I hear knocked quite a bit for being all flash without substance. However, 
 a complex cinematic story is not what this game is about. Doom 3 takes you back to the early days 
 of the first person shooter when it was just mindless killing of demons, key finding (passcards) , 
 and progressing through the levels to fight a big bad boss at the end. Doom 3 and its expansion 
 is one of the few modern shooters that manage to provide that classic feeling of fun along with 
 a showcase of today's technological progress.
  
  Doom 3 is a very atmospheric shooter. There are times, especially early on in the game, where it 
 will actually be creepy if you let yourself be immersed in it. As the game goes on, you go through 
 more labs, plants, and even Hell itself. Just as classic Doom took the 3d shooter of its time to 
 the next level with hexagonal maps and platforms, Doom 3 took today's shooter to the next level, 
 being the first to provide such per-pixel real-time lighting and shadows. 
  
  I've played through Doom 3 and its expansion 3 times and still don't find it boring. Doom 3 is 
 not for everyone though. I've found that most people who really appreciate this game were fans 
 of the 3d shooter genre back in 1993 when classic Doom came out, as I was. Newcomers who have only 
 experienced cinematic first person shooters and multiplayer ones may not like Doom 3 because of 
 its lack of a complex story.
  
  I highly recommend Doom 3 to everyone, but especially fans of classic Doom. If you want a story-driven 
 shooter, play Half Life 2 or Call of Duty 2, both great games. If you want good old fashioned shoot-em-up 
 fun, then you will love Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krodmilk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  While not a great game, it did have it's good ends. The enemies were well generated and at most 
 times, very scary. Especially when you didn't expect them to come around the corner so quick.
 
  Doom 3 was very repetitive. While on mars, the environments never changed, it was always hallways 
 and corridors. Occasionally you were able to go outside, but you ran out of oxygen and health when 
 you were always frantically trying to find oxygen tanks or the way back inside. The rooms were 
 always dark and you could never see what was in front of you unless you used your flashlight, but 
 with your flashlight, you couldn't shoot any weapons unless you put it away and took out a weapon.... but 
 then you couldn't see again..... and so on. The weapons were pretty cool, the shotgun being the 
 most effective. The BFG 3000 was an amazing gun but had it's drawbacks.... very little ammo capacity 
 and if fired at close range, most often resulted in immediate death. Or if charged to much, once 
 again, cataclysmic explosion and.... death. The story line was hard to follow because you were never 
 really thinking about it, you were always thinking..."save and quit now? or venture into the next 
 room?"... Then when the ingame cinematics came, showing what the badguys were doing, you had no 
 clue what they were up to, why they were doing it and what part of the story you fit into. I beat 
 the game on Xbox and then gain on PC and the only difference was graphics, which were never noticable 
 because it was always too dark to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baelrrogg
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  First lets get right to the first thing that strikes you playing Doom 3. The graphics are real 
 pretty, textures are huge, models and lighting are state-of-the-art.
  
  As for the game itself, Doom 3 is very much a generic shooter for the exception of it's ambiance. 
 The game happens mostly in the dark, and the your only source of light is a flashlight which you 
 cannot use at the same time as a weapon. This gets frustrating at times but also helps with the 
 sense of panic the creators were aiming for. This game will suprise you and give you a thrill or 
 two and there is just this sense of dread when you see eyes quickly walk through the darkness only 
 to switch to you flashlight, see nothing and then get ambushed by that creature. The monsters are 
 positioned using some trick from the old book like monster closets and monsters teleporting behind 
 you. The game kind of trades of the scary theme for all-out action towards the end of the game 
 but at that point it becomes a welcome change of pace. 
  
  The guns in Doom 3 are pretty standard FPS weaponry. There is a shotgun, handgun. machinegun, chaingun, 
 energy machine gun, rocket launcher, and the classic BFG with no secondary or fancy functions on 
 any of the guns. 
  
  Multiplay is pretty bland without any MODs as it only supports 4 players and there is no co-op 
 mode. 
  
  To finish Doom 3 is something you will want to play mostly for it's name and ambience but if you're 
 looking for innovation you might want to look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TruGillies
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 25, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Doom has been around for a long time. It started as a simple yet complex game. Then grew untill 
 now, Doom 3. If you couldn't tell this is the thrid installment in the series. Its the same story 
 over again. Which is kinda bummed me out but its ok. The story is that you are an unknown marine 
 working for a company based in Mars. The first five minutes you walk around the main area of the 
 complex to get your footing. Then you are sent to your first assignment pick up a scientist. You 
 make your way to your objective and during the walk you hear noises. Don't worry it made me jump 
 too. Then Hell gets let loose, seriously. You see the base get ripped apart. Then the scientist 
 becomes a possed thing and you blast the crap out of it with your pistol. Then the game begins. 
 From there you make your way around the base trying to survive. Now the control with this game 
 was solid. The key thing is that you have a powerful computer to play. Even on the low graphic 
 setting the game lookd beautiful. The audio was out of this world. No music, which isn't a bad 
 thing. There was lots of noises and voices to hear. Also you could hear audio journals from people 
 that you pick up along the way. Now the weapons were stunning. The animations were slick and good 
 looking. The best weapon is either the chainsaw (I nicknamed it Bessie, just for kicks) and the 
 BMG this gun is deadly, one shot from this bad boy and most enemies would drop dead. When open 
 up the game there is a little flyer in box that says "For the best gaming experience, turn off 
 the lights and crank up the volume." Do this and don't ask questions. It is awesome. Nothing beats 
 getting the **** scared out of you when you near voices and your in a dark room. There was three 
 main problems with the game. One, was that you either picked to hold oyur flashlight or you gun. 
 I found I usually went into a dark hallway just randomly shooting hoping that I killed something. 
 Two, was the lack of mutliplayer. You had your standard deathmatch and such. They could have done 
 more with the engine thay had. Finally, was the linear and back track levels. It made me feel like 
 I was in a Metriod game or something. Beyond that amazing game. I recomned it to anyone who likes 
 FPS and survival horror games and a Doom veteran. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlcain
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Did I enjoy Doom 3? Ultimately yes. Was I let down? Very much. I think I am going to not do a standard 
 review, but instead let you read what I was thinking at various points of the SP experience.
  
  1-2 hrs. played - Woah, that really looks great. Look at the lighting!! OMG, is that a zombie.... KILL 
 IT!! 
  
  4-6 hrs played - I gotta tell ya, these hallways are starting to look pretty familar. Did the game 
 start over by accident? When do I get to go outside for awhile? 
  
  7 hrs played - Haven't the enemies learned that if they run straight at me I'll kill them yet? 
 Seriously, if I just hide behind a corner and wait for them, they come following me everytime. 
 Is hell really filled with such stupid creatures? If so, I'm not so scared anymore. At least my 
 guns still look cool.
  
  8-9 hours played - Whoo hooot!! Something new!! Alright, no more hallways, now if the enemies would 
 just get a bit smarter. At least they are getting bigger!
  
  11-12 hours played - Oh, its over. Well, not a total waste of time, but not the game I felt I was 
 promised.
  
  Oh, and I bet 15 minutes playing multiplayer... do with that what you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prichard745
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Science has unlocked the gates to the unknown, and now only one man stands between Hell and Earth. 
 A sci-fi horror masterpiece, DOOM 3 is like nothing you have experienced. Dramatic storyline, pulse-pounding 
 action, incredible graphics, and revolutionary technology combine to draw you into the most frightening 
 and gripping first person gaming experience ever created.
  Freaky i like playin games like this because they always scare me i cant controll it no mater how 
 many times i play it i cant play it during day time time because it just doesnt set the mood to 
 play. play it a night time its worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inc3sticid3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is very fun and looks amazing. I love this game its one of my top 10 games. But its way to 
 short like you can beat it in like 5 hours. Ok the storie takes place i beleve 2 years before Doom 
 so just know that and the storie is created by a proffesional sc-fi writer so its got to be a good 
 storie. The graphics are amazing and the game has dynamic lighting so it looks good and real. The 
 creature diign is very good especialy the hell knite. The weapons are cool they include a shot 
 gun, pistol, sub machine gun, a gatling gun, and a artifact that uses deamon souls for ammo the 
 soul cube. The multi player is your basic id game play so its like Quake wich is good. But the "scares" 
 in this game are way to stupid and cheesey well shure every now and then like once or twice in 
 the game you would get freaked or creaped out. So Doom 3 is very fun and NOT scary so dont be afraid 
 buy it, its fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blinksum123
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely terrifying... in a good way. The graphics were stunning. Everything in 
 the game looked as it should. But the sound on the other hand was a different story, there was 
 no music except for the song in the menu, and there was a lot of ambient noise through out the 
 whole game that seemed a bit repetitive.
  
  As always, FPS's are a must on pc because it makes everything so much simpler when it comes to 
 killing demons hehe... but every version of the game has the constant switching of the flashlight 
 and your weapon wich gets quite irritating. But overall, I think this game is worth it, if you 
 don't mind getting scared to death..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I have personally played all of the Doom series from the very first one till now. I, like most, 
 was expecting it to be just so awesome. At first, it is but then it slowly looses it flash. This 
 version is alot different in that it is more tactical than your typical spray and pray game. You 
 cannot just run thru and hope for the best. You are far better off taking your time! Lets look 
 at the best part of the game first. The graphics are just amazing in this game. Texture and lighting 
 are well used as you make your way thru the different areas. Realism was given to the characters 
 as well. You can (on high end graphics cards) see the fluids just dripping off of the creatures 
 as they come towards you. Alot of detail went into making the creatures look very real and scary. 
 Equally as well there was alot of detail that went into the environment. Broken cables sparking 
 and arching, Lights that flicker off and on. Computer screens showing different displays. All makes 
 for a great environment to play in. As you use your weapons they too leave realistic marks on the 
 wall.. and they stay there thru the level, not disappearing after you leave an area. Blood streaks 
 as you wipe out an enemy as well. All this and more gives this game a very realistic feel to it. 
 Sound is great too as you can hear creatures lurking in the background, around the corner, hiding 
 from you. I run a Soundblaster X-Fi and with sound surround speakers &amp; sub woofer, it just 
 adds to the game really nicely. The only problem with this game is that you will see a routine 
 pattern emerge as you play. Enter a room... and the lights go out... means a baddy is on his way. 
 Walk down a hallway... and open doors behind you emerge to reveal another creature. See holes in 
 the roof or walls... you know the creatures are coming. The game goes to a cutscene and you know 
 that when it is done you are in for it again. This makes the game loose it's paz zaz really fast. 
 I am only 1/2 way thru the game and just bored with it because you know what to expect. The creatures 
 are very easy to kill once you learn what weapon is best on them. Actually on the subject of weapons... 
 once you get the chainsaw... your day just gets easier. I remember the first time I saw a Pinky. 
 The best weapon I had was the shotgun. It took several shots to kill him and he was very difficult 
 to avoid. I took over 1/4 of my health and armor in that battle. Now with the chainsaw... I meet 
 him face to face and he usually drops in seconds and I leave with minimal damage. Same goes for 
 the Imps and other creatures in the game. The bosses are not that difficult either. I met Vagary 
 face to face with the plasma gun and she didn't get a mark on me at all! Not very realistic at 
 all. In conclusion... I find Doom 3 to be a great game but they really did alot of hype about it. 
 The graphics and sound are awesome but I feel as if they could have made the AI alot better than 
 it is with the modern technology. I do think they did a great job on the game as far as keeping 
 you on the edge of your seat. I still shreik when ever a baddy comes out of the darkness at me 
 because they look so real. Don't get me wrong... I think it is a great game... just with all the 
 hype we were told and as long as we waited... I just expected more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AINISA
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is the scariest game ever. Not only does it have creepy sounds and atmosphere (which a 
 lot of games have) , it has the muscle to back it up. If you play this game with the lights off, 
 you will feel a true sense of dread as you make your way through the dimly light hallways of the 
 UAC Mars facility. You will find yourself thinking "I don't wanna die" and before you can fully 
 grasp the sense of fear that you have, a horrific demon will jump out and surprise you. You better 
 check your shorts.
  
  The music is great, the sound effects are decent, thought they could have changed it up a bit from 
 the classic Quake 3 pickups.. yanno a little variety of sfx would be nice..
  
  I giw 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337pwnage
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 looks amazing no doubt, but doesn't have that much to offer when actually playing. Sure, 
 it can get immersive because of the great visuals and monsters but it wears off fairly quick.
 
  
  The gameplay was fun for about 2 or 3 hours, but then it gets pretty old. Environments and monsters 
 feel repetitive and it's just straight up shooting them. There isn't much diversity in the AI, 
 no strategic firefights, no teamates to work with, and just occasional thrills that also get pretty 
 old. Multiplayer is uninspired and kinda boring. Overall it's just fairly bland shooting that's 
 fun for a little while or in small doses.
  
  Graphics are amazing in this game even after almost 2 years. It runs great on high settings with 
 current gen hardware and looks much better than half the games that come out now. However I experience 
 a lot of flickering textures with my video card.
  
  Doom 3 could've been better but they stuck to the classic type of shooting gameplay that works 
 for a while but it's nothing great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, After sitting myself down and actually playing the game throughout, I have to say the game 
 is pretty simple through most of the game except when you first "go to hell" which is where all 
 your ammo and weps go bye bye.. and don't even think about saving the ammo you gain in hell because 
 you will loose it all again when you warp out. This thus made the game a hellava lot harder than 
 it needed to be.. Sure okay, a challenge.. but fer pete's sake.. I rather not kill one baddie or 
 three only to check to see if I have enough ammo and health to make it past the lvl. Ergo, save/reload 
 fest. This made the game irritating for me during the end levels.. my max irritation came from 
 the cyberdemon final boss battle.. talk about painstaking.. I played it on normal and got my butt 
 whipped so bad that it made FEAR look like child's play. And frankly I loved FEAR. 
  
  Doom 3 looks amazing even today with AA full etc.. but the gameplay.. I felt like I was running 
 around the same corridors and entering the same rooms midway through the game. 
  
  The music is great, the sound effects are decent, thought they could have changed it up a bit from 
 the classic Quake 3 pickups.. yanno a little variety of sfx would be nice..
  
  The game is extremely stable and did not crash even once. That just shows how well built the game 
 engine is. As well as the programming behind it. 
  
  Value the game is well worth the money even at 50 bucks brand new, though this is not the current 
 price at present. I spent maybe 20-25 hrs on actual play time.. with breaks inbetween because I 
 got frustrated at not being able to conserve ammo/health near the end. Multi, was blah, there.. 
 HL2 DM was more fun than D3's multi... even with the coop mod. There are far few servers running 
 presently which gives an idication of the game's multi aspect even 1 1/2 yrs later. 
  
  Overall, a decent game, though nothing I would "NEED TO GET". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaurenKowalczyk
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 15, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited Doom 3. There was so much hype about it, that I was expecting it to be some kind 
 god-like phenomenon where you had to avert your eyes because it was so beautiful. When I started 
 playing it, I found it to be really good. I loved it! It had great atmosphere, good sounds and 
 good graphics. There was nothing wrong with it at the beginning, but soon everything turned around 
 for me with the game. It started getting repetitive at some points and there wasn't much change 
 in characters, enemies and setting. I continued playing hoping that the game would turn around, 
 but it didn't. The boss's were pretty good, but when they were over, you were back wandering the 
 corridors of the mars space station trying to find the next level. Hell was also a nice break from 
 the metal halls of the station, but it was over so quickly that I was left staring at the screen 
 saying "thats it!?" When I reached the tank boss (sorry, I dont remember his name at all) I tried 
 it for about an hour and then gave up for good. If the game had been more exciting and drawn me 
 in for the entire game, then I probably would have put more effort in the killing of the "boss 
 tank guy". I just felt as though there was no point in continuing and I haven't picked it up since 
 for another fresh attempt at the game. I would say Doom 3 is a good rental if you are looking for 
 something that will thrill you for at least 3 hours, after that prepare yourself for endless metal 
 corridors and countless monsters that throw fire at you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illpiercedninio
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  My second review. First one is F. E. A. R's.
  I knew as I saw the very first pics of the game that I should buy Doom 3 and I also knew I was 
 going to like it. Not because I was a die-hard Doom fan (because I never really liked the series) 
 but just because they looked so scary / pretty.
  The main screen welcomed me with a slightly boring main menu. Just see the Xbox's version of this 
 game and you will know what I mean.
  The story:
  Scientist goes crazy, opens portal to Hell, all kinds of demons got loose, and you have to kill 
 them. Seriously, as much of an effort the devs try to fatten up Doom 3's story, that's it. It's 
 a hell-infested Mars base. I mean, what can you seriously expect from that? The devs also tried 
 to try to emulate a System Shock 2's way of telling the story. This works as you picking up e-mail 
 from different sources and these emails tells you, more or less, how the story progresses and how 
 everything is slowly going, literally, to Hell. But where System Shock 2 shined vigariously, Doom 
 3 fails to do so, there is no entertainintment in this audio logs and e-mails from the base staff, 
 most of this e-mails and audio logs are, well, pretty boring. They talk a lot of pseudo-science 
 and mumbo jumbo but nothing really that catches your attention. So you're probably going to listen 
 to one or two of these audio logs and never again.
  Im guessing that this, mainly, failed because System Shock 2's audio logs referred mainly to the 
 staff's relationships and how alliances are made and broken; as where in Doom 3 you wont get more 
 than 3 audio logs from the same person.
  Graphics:
  Well, even 2 years after it's release, Doom3's engine is still one hell of a show. It's simply 
 breath taking to walk through these horrible, horrible corridors and at the same time watch in 
 awe the textures, the shadows, the way the lights move, it's simply amazing. It's also quite a 
 resource hog, since you need a LOT of ram to play this puppy in full quality settings. Nevertheless, 
 you can play it and dont lose much (if any) important eye candy. One thing that really strucked 
 me as incredible was the enemy animation, I don't know how they pulled this one off, but it simply 
 feels good to watch an imp move, crawl, run, jump at you or use their claws with you.
  Sound:
  Wow. Just. Wow. Doom 3 may have the very best use of surround system to date. It's amazing, 
 there are so many sounds at the same time, yet you can hear them each one from a different speaker. 
 The combination of sounds most of the time creates an amorphous cacophony of, well, evil.
  Gameplay:
  This is the part where some will differ, and some will agree completely. You either 
 love or hate playing Doom 3. It's really old school, and although I never was much of a fan of 
 old school fps, Doom 3, for some reason, got me. But still, as much as I like it, it has many flaws: 
 for instance, you have to get used to to being attack from behind. A LOT. The devs probably thought 
 "Hey, let's scare people by spawning monsters BEHIND them". Yes sure. It scared me the first 20 
 times or so. But after the 45000 time, you don't really get scared anymore. In fact, you KNOW when 
 there is a monster coming up behind you, so the fun is gone. It relies on this pattern way too 
 much. 
  
  So. Is Doom 3 a classic? No. But it sure as hell could have been. Some gameplay decisions really 
 set the game back, and as much as I like it, it's hardly a new-era game, it's just ol' Doom with 
 new graphics. And you know what I like to see in this industry? New, and fresh, and innovative 
 ideas. Still, Doom 3 is a fun experience, but you will probably not go back to it in a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gods_mistake
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 14, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is the scariest game ever. Not only does it have creepy sounds and atmosphere (which a 
 lot of games have) , it has the muscle to back it up. If you play this game with the lights off, 
 you will feel a true sense of dread as you make your way through the dimly light hallways of the 
 UAC Mars facility. You will find yourself thinking "I don't wanna die" and before you can fully 
 grasp the sense of fear that you have, a horrific demon will jump out and surprise you. You better 
 check your shorts.
  
  The technology behind this game is fantastic. The graphics engine is top-notch and the sound will 
 make you tremble. Id Software went basic on the gameplay, it a very straight-forward shooter. This 
 engine is already part of at least three other games. I upgraded my computer just so I would be 
 able to play this game when it came out.
  
  Id Software has outdone themselves on this one. No one has ever made a game so visceral or frightening. 
 The monsters are extremely lifelike and do nothing but attack and kill ruthlessly. No need for 
 sophisticated AI, you have a hard enough time killing these beasts. Wow, this game is one of the 
 best ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 12, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  doom 3 is the best horror game for fps ever made and this new sieries is perfect with the new graphics 
 and effect with the sheder model 3 but the problim was that the game is so hard that you cant move 
 without being hit from deamon ahhhhhhh and the game is so horror like the movie and the dark side 
 of the hell and the mars the spaceship is empty of mariens and you the last one you must fight 
 for survive and stay alive as you can and dont afraid from the darkness and the deamons the deamons 
 is the main problim she is strong and you must kill every on to runaway.................... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokussj32
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 11, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  Well this game doesnt recommend for little children but its not so scary as it is i mean come on 
 its just a game ohh whatever. So how you see suprisingly the graphics are amazing, first time ever, this 
 game rocks and the movie i watched too. Who played it will agree with me, the story starts from when 
 you arrive to Mars or company UAC as we tell when you arrive some people there will talk strange 
 things that you must get out of here while you still can, but one thing i wanted to know do the 
 monsters come from space or from the hell in the game it says and shows that they come from Hell, but 
 in the movie they come from experimental jobs like a virus you know the 24th chromosome. Well thats 
 it see ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta01138
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the 3rd game in the Doom series. You play as a nameless space marine who goes to mars 
 and you almost immediately figures out somthing is wrong. The graphics are AWESOME! The game is 
 not short at all. Took me about 13 hours to beat it. You get your flashlight, your fists, a pistol, 
 a shotgun, and many other cool and fun-to-shoot weapons. Very bloody and gory, everything that 
 id does very well. Doom is slower paced than the first two. It not like there are 10 enemies in 
 the room like in the first 2, but more like 4 or 5, but whats really scary is that sometimes when 
 you walk to a place to get an item a hatch dor opens and some zombie or demon attacked. One downside 
 is that the demons sorta incinerate when they die so you cant see where you've been because nothings 
 there to see! The campaign is very interesting and draws you into it so that you can never stop 
 playing it. It did this to me, I felt horrible when I got it because I played it for 3 hours then 
 I had to go on a trip for a week. The graphics are all they're said to be and more. The classic 
 demons are still in the game and a lot of other new demons are in the game like Wraiths. And you'll 
 also get this feeling when you see the classic demons because you see them differently than in 
 the original games but you still know what they are and it wi cool to see them that way. It is 
 a very fulfilling game and lives up to its name: DOOM
  
  Your fellow gamer
  delta 01138 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  If you play Doom 3 in the dark and alone it can be fairly scary in the start but is not F. E. A. R. 
 because after the first few levels you can be a monster psychic. Example, you walk down a dimly 
 lit hallway with a vent hanging down, since your playing Doom 3 you know that a firing spitting 
 Imp will climb down through that vent and scratch you to a bloody mess. Not the greatest feature 
 in a shooter when you know what is probably about to happen. Once again you play as a space marine 
 on Mars mission gone bad with hellish daemons and such invading the planet you must stop them. 
 Your marine buddies help you from time to time but most you are on your own for a more than average 
 FPS game time of 15-20 hours. Though the game time is longer than others the linear aspect makes 
 Doom 3 less enjoyable. As always Doom 3 has very fun Multiplayer which is a ball even if it copies 
 from Half-Life 's gravity gun. Other down sides of Doom 3 is sometimes the objectives are hard 
 to find and make you think which can turn some players off (uh not in that way...) and the game 
 doesn't have the smartest A. I. I've seen. Doom 3 is a good addition to the Doom name because it 
 is fairly fun and have average FPS graphics but doesn't provide the sort of gameplay that the Doom 
 series is known for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winnunez
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  We all remember when the first doom came out, the amazing 3d you walk on great visuals (at that 
 time) , Cool weapons and more. Now playing doom3 will give you that. With greater visuals, cooler 
 guns, new demons and some old ones what more could you ask for doom? This game will surely still 
 give you the intense fire-frights that u felt with the original doom, By doing so you feel as if 
 your fighting for your life and refuse to give-up and be ripp- off by the demons. While walking 
 through the corridors, The first time the demons showed up you hear your commrades and the other 
 people there scream in agony and shout for help and get torn apart? Makes you feel lucky, Huh? 
 Well not really cause you will experience much more hell than they will. You'll see different hellspawns 
 here the bosses here will make you scream in Agony here. The multiplayer is great too, now you 
 have more reasons to stay at the wee hours in the morning with Demons and Undeads by your side.
 
  
  Graphics & Sound: Abosolutely great, Demonic even. Great visuals you'll see lotsa limbs and torso, 
 Cool looking guns ranging from pistol to the great BFG (Big Freakin Gun) . You'll also get beserk 
 power ups It's really nice ones u dish it out in melee. The Demons look like satan himself. Great 
 sound makes u shrink to a size of an ant. Keep that volume up! Cool voice acting makes you feel 
 like your in the big screen.
  
  Gameplay: Simple Enter a corridor look around in darkness with your electric torch Once enemies 
 found S&D. But there's some new addittion like the PDA (A tiny Computer) this contains information 
 about the facility, some e-mail and messages, Also contains your objectives you can basically not 
 open it up until u finish the game but if you want you can!
  Your in hell on earth So expect Sudden frights, Evil laughter, Screaming and Shouting, Unexpected 
 attacks This game always give frights and suprises.
  
  Overall: A great looking FPS, Full of D's (Demons & Deads) , A worthy game to have if you love the 
 first Doom and even if not this game will appeal even to those who have not played the original 
 doom. Ladies&Gentlemen, Demonfraggers Welcome to Mars the home of Doom! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalnutter
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 has to be one of the best first person shooters around. The amount of time which the developers 
 spent on the graphics server for this game deserves to be recognised. The graphics are the best 
 i have ever seen in a first person shooter so far. Even though i haven't played the game that long 
 i can tell that the game is going to be an instant hit for the people who play it. The hardest 
 part about this game is when you are reloading your gun and the baddies jump out and attack you 
 i recommend reloading your gun before you walk into another room. If you like first person shooters 
 then this is the game for you, if you like playing the game you might also want to see the film 
 which has a brilliant first person shooter scene in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ram_martai
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  This is the third game in the Doom series for Pc and its not 2d it 3d with stunning new graphics 
 that are so cool it looks so realistic, It has most of the monsters and weapons from the original 
 game and a few new ones swell like the machine gun but it still has the BFG, most of the monsters 
 are new which makes the game more interesting.
  
  The story is basically you are a UAC marine and you are ordered to see what the threat is in the 
 labs and then you realise its rampaging with zombies and theres a few scenes that make you jump 
 then the main game begins then bigger monster pop up and if you want my advise they often jump 
 from behind you, game play is brilliant and the sound is scary which suit the envioment, the scenery 
 is quite gory but it depends on how far you are in the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbrusati
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  In my life i havent ever experianced such a horror. It was 10 PM and my friend geve me a copy of 
 Doom 3. He went to his home and iam all alone. My mom and dad went to my grand mothers house iam 
 alllllll alone god damn it. I heard lods of good things about this game and i was affraid to play 
 it. I installed it. And started it this scared the hell of meee. Oh i was really affraid and suddenly 
 it became 12oclock. The current went offffffffff. Bull **** iam now alone in the dark with the 
 torch and i really bcame the hero of DOOM 3. Any way this is the review.
  
  Gameplay
  The good+ Really scaring all the story is cool and all the PDA (Personal Data Assistance) is really 
 cool. The demon coming unexpected from our back is the reallity bitessss. ID u rulz with Activision. 
 Really u guys r cool. They designed the HELL really good.
  The Bad- In gameplay the only bad thing is AI of demons. Not much cool. The problem i faced was 
 they r little bit twitchy. In some places we can know where will be the demons. It should be random
 
  Score: 9
  
  Graphics
  The good+ OHHHHHHHHHHHH MYYYYYYYYYYYYYY GODDDDDDDDD. the best graphics engine ever created wonderfully 
 is here the best u know this engine rulz. Every things r highly detailed. Gun, Violence, Terrain, 
 Demons, Character annimation bwaahaha. Graphics make the game more scary u know the dark enviornment.
 
  The bad- Nooooooooo badddddddddddd
  Score: 10
  
  Sound
  The good+ All the sound effects like demon the rooms background score and even the guns r cool. 
 The screeming is cool. But some negetive is also there.
  The bad- Machine guns sound is not good it must become much powerfull.
  Score: 9
  
  A game 
 which u can enjoy for all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  I played classic DOOM for years, when the first shareware was released. When DOOM 2 came out, that 
 was even more exciting. DOOM 3 has a different style of gameplay. But still this is the master 
 of all sci-fi shooters to really spook a hardened first person shooter fan, as myself. Supernatural 
 spooks are the hardest to get over in a game. Because you sometimes feel there is no control over 
 them. And being the a lone marine, walking or running though a dark and unstable marine base on 
 a hazardess planet surface can make it even more tense. Allthough, some of my favorite spooks from 
 the odler game didnt come back really the way I wanted. Such as the pinky. I liked the more fleshy 
 warewolf like version, with the big sharp toothed mouth and spooky glowing eyes. I would have liked 
 to see the DOOM 3 version of that. But it was changed big time. Though, the new one still is pretty 
 freaky. Reminds me more of a rabid, angry, hungry lion. Demonic lion.
  
  Graphics are definatly a 10.0, Sound 10.0, no doubt about it. This is a great physiological thriller, 
 in a horror setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkinay
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  As i downloaded the demo i was impressed by the game which led me 2 by the game l8er on in the 
 month. i had a feeling of happyness wen i bought the game but as i progressed throught each level 
 my happyness diminished as the levels became repetative and the same old thing was happening wer 
 there was a monster it wud pop out the side and attempt 2 scare you which kills the game btw. the 
 graphic are not the best i ave seen but where pretty good and managed to slow my computer down. 
 the sound creates a creepy factor to the game but fails to work the more you play. but besides 
 all these bad points there are more good points to get the game so i wud advise people especialy 
 new comers to the doom games to give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 27, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good : A great single player gameplay , with a scary AI that offers a lot of challange to the 
 game & a dark enviroments that puts you at the edge of screaming & hart pumping moments that makes 
 you just like a chicken . As to the graphics they are so good that they make you feel that it is 
 really happening it is true everything from your hands to the ground to the enemies to the enviroments 
 etc... not a single graphical problem is noticed , while the sound isn't as it was supposed to 
 be , yet the latest patch ( 1.3 ) make all the difference in the sound , we it is now able to support 
 4.0 EAX for the new X-Fi Sound Cards . 
  
  The Bad : A too scary or not scary but suprising & terriffying gameplay that makes you feel that 
 this is enough ,that you hart cant take any more from this game , so you feel like quitting . As 
 to the sound , will you can get to notice the change of the sound when you install the 1.3 patch 
 for a machine that have an X-Fi sound card & you will notice that it had gone bad ( I prefferd 
 to play the game with 4.0 EAX off ) . As to the enviroments , well sometimes you reach stages that 
 you think why is there blood in here ( no proof or reason to them to put blood in this place ) 
 they just want to scare you . And after a time of scary moments & enviroments , you will eventually 
 get used to it , so no more scary moments for you , but you will still get cought once in a while 
 .
  
  Any way it is a good game , & I think that you should buy this one if are into mature scary games 
 , were you will deffenitly feel the reach to the edge of your hart's pumping adrenaline , & you 
 will get into this game & never get out untill you finish it , like that you will be addicted to 
 finish it . So buy this game if you are into Sci-Fi FPS games or if you are into scary games . 
 You will feel that you money is well spent . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  DOOM 3:-
  
  By,
  Scorpio_gamer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  Doom 3 is jus a remake of the original Doom. You play as a nameless, voiceless 22nd-century space 
 marine called by the Union Aerospace Corporation (UAC) to its Mars research facility attacked by 
 the mysterious forces from hell. You get many different guns and meet lots of different enemies 
 and few boss fights which you have to do without any help expect few times when a robot helps you 
 kill demons. The game has a gloomy atmosphere at all times this is what makes the game scary, your 
 enemies jump from anywhere and everywhere anytime!! :| 
  You get PDA in this game in which you get E-mails, security clearance, audio and video files. You 
 get few cabinet codes and instructions through e-mails or audio logs.
  
  Game-Play:-
  This game has a kinda boring game-play as you jus go killing your enemies while going through a 
 pathways stained with blood; walking by human bodies; and keep collecting PDA's for security clearance 
 to finish d**b objectives. There is no proper story at all! The guns are good, my favorite is the 
 BFG and the Pulse and ya i forgot to mention the chain saw, its should be the best weapon of the 
 game coz its easy to use and u can keep running with it to rip-off ur enemies without getting scared, 
 you must play this game with all the anger you've got coz otherwise u will be too scared to play 
 the game. This game requires pure GUTS to play it. Be ready for a Virtual hell experience!!!
  
  Graphics:-
  The game has ultra-superb graphics, the world and character models are made extremely 
 well. There are not many cut scenes but the last one is the longest, all are jus fine. All the 
 monsters and the world around you look realistic!!
  
  Sound:-
  The sound is really good, its an addition to that creepy atmosphere. The monsters screaming from 
 everywhere! Then those voices talking to you, Wooooha!! Creepy!!!!
  
  Conclusion:-
  This game is jus a bit odd, its repetitive, no story, nameless marine with no night vision and 
 has a flash light with life-time battery!! There are many more set-backs of the game; you can read 
 the GS review for a total list of them.
  Event its movie DOOM acted by the WWE star ROCK is not that gr8 as expected! 
  Multiplayer is 
 not that good at all!! : (
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  Sound- 10/10
  
  Gameplay-7/10
  
  Replay Value: 5/10
  
  Story: 7/10
  
  Overall- 8/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodlandboy22
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 24, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I have never been so disappointed with a video game in my entire life. I absolutely loved the old 
 Doom and I played the crap out of it, so naturally I was super excited for Doom 3. The graphics 
 were insanely good and the game play looked amazing. I went out and spent about $300 on computer 
 upgrades to buy this game... not to mention the $50 it cost. It was one of the longest most boring 
 games I've ever played. Every level looks exactly the same (except the Hell level... that one's 
 cool) and there are about 10 different enemies to fight. I love a good long game if it's fun... 
 but walking down the same hallway shooting the same zombie with the same gun for 10 hours is not 
 my idea of a good time. Go buy Half-Life 2 or F. E. A. R. instead (both great games.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dangarratt
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 22, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Lots of people have gone on about the graphics. The lighting is surperb (when it's used!) - for 
 example the fire and heat effects are amazing. But the rest of the graphics are actually quite 
 poor, especially the people. All the marines look like coneheads, with stiff faces, and jerky motion. 
 
  I hesitate to include this, but comparison with the people in Half-life 2 makes me laugh. HL2 makes 
 you feel like you're in a movie. Doom makes you feel like you're in a badly drawn cartoon.
  Also the gameplay is boring, dark, and repetative. I dislike games where the level designers "cheat" 
 by making it too dark to see the enemies. This robs you of any tactical aspect - reaction time 
 is all that counts here.
  Doom is technically brilliant in certain areas, but that's all. There may be a good game waiting 
 out there, but I think we'll see better on Source. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwerty212
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 22, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  When i first started this game up, i thought the opening was pretty cool, how it goes off the control 
 terminal and into thee room with people walking around, monitoring work, etc. and when that ship 
 came into the hangar, that was amazing graphics. in the begging, running around the mars base, 
 pissing off all the workers there and playing super turber turkey puncher was alot of fun. After 
 i decided to finaly get to the game, i went to see Sgt. Kelly who turns out to be a real jerk, 
 so after he briefed me i decided to piss the hell out him and keep talk and talk and talking to 
 him.. that was alot of fun. but the face gestures, the movent, and the mouth-speach coordination 
 was incredible. so i get going on my mission, good ol sgt bob or whoever he is gives my pistol, 
 armor and my trusty flashlight and off i go. the first guy i see i thought was a zombie so i shot 
 him right in the head lol. just as i did the guy comes on the intercom telling me that civillians 
 are working down there, don't get excited and shoot one  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiroyukiwu
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 21, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game in good faith (and mainly on the graphics) that it would be fun to play and 
 maybe (dare I say it) innovitive, but alas, NO, this game is one of the most linear games I have 
 played in the last 5 years, yes the graphics are great (imo do not compare to far cry) but the 
 game play is horrendious, simply open this door, monster jumps out, you shoot, read pda, open door, 
 shoot etc. Not a good game and as for being scary, no way, tame is more like it just like the gameplay.
 
  But if you are a Doom geek you should like it as long as you know that it is the orignal doom 
 and doom2 put together, with no story line, no charater devlopment, just blast a monster or two 
 and look at the nice effects 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dancinginthemoo
Rating: 6
Date: May 20, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  the graphics arent pehenominal, the textures look washed out and blurry,
  
  the game is not scary and anyone who thinks it is is dumb and a little chicken.
  
  well this 
 game aint such a great game on most fronts on judgment of my apple pie and trifle
  
  well if u want a exciting first person shooter with stunning graphics and is great on all fronts 
 go out and buy half life 2 or fear they are much better looking and playing games and have better 
 ai so u might want to give it a try if u are a fan of doom (i am when i started being one when 
 i played doom on the gba)
  
  so if ur a fan of doom u might wanna rent it if u bored of half life or fear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisnd
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Being that I have had a PC for gaming in one form or another since 1991, I have seen the gamut 
 of all of the classic First Person Shooters (before FPS were even called "FPS") . Games like Castle 
 Wolfenstein, and the original Doom. So, when I heard that Doom 3 was coming out, the nostalgic 
 feelings began to creep in again.
  
  Only with this game, there is no nostalgia. It is refreshing, it is new, and it is 
 
  
  To give you an idea of how crazy I was with this game, I specifically bought a new video card and 
 motherboard to be able to handle the specifications for this game - and I was not disappointed 
 (plus, I had a reason to upgrade) . I had one of the first copies to hit Best Buy on Aug 3, 2004, 
 and played it for about 6 hours that night. What an incredible experience.
  
  First of all... the atmosphere in this game is unreal. The graphics, especially with a powerful 
 graphics card that allows you to take advantage of the high end graphic features, really jump out 
 at you. You see steam rising out of the floor grates. Blood splatters from dead creatures leave 
 visible stains on the floor. And the constant vapors from the heat in various rooms add an incredible 
 sense of realism. Oh, and I forgot to mention the monsters. Did I mention the monsters? Wow!
  
  And not only are the monsters so precisely and beautifully rendered... but they actually scare 
 the crap out of you - only because they will come out of the woodwork, or drop down from the ceiling, 
 or jump out at you from an alcove, without you even suspecting that they are there. Honestly, I 
 am surprised that there wasn't some sort of health warning akin to what they tell you before you 
 enter haunted houses on Halloween.
  
  As for the sound, it too is unbelievable. The monsters are frightful enough to look at - the sounds 
 they make are even more unbelievable. Ambient sounds, such as the whirring of a gear, the opening 
 of doors, or the activation of your pod, are spot on. And the overall soundtracks adds a great 
 deal of atmosphere to the game.
  
  For gameplay, I recomend this game for a few reason. First, a great story line - albeit cliche, 
 it is still nice to see one. Second, the use of the pod to track all of your information. It was 
 literally at your fingertips at any time. And the audioclips you get to hear, when retreiving and 
 inserting other people's data pods, make the game more than a game.
  
  Overall, I highly recomend this game. Between the visuals, the audio, and the gameplay, it is a 
 well crafted and fantastic piece of a game.
  
  One last thing - I highly recommend, unless you have a heart of steel and can handle never being 
 surprised or taken unaware... do not play this game in the dark. Well, actually, I do recommend 
 that you play it in the dark - it only adds to the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Doom is one of the greatest First Person Shooter's of all time because it helped put the genre 
 on the map. Doom 3 is a re-imagining of the original Doom, and let me tell you, those graphics 
 are the best I've ever seen in any game. They look so good, so detailed, so... real. This time around, 
 the powers that be at id Software decided to give a full story treatment to Doom 3. You still play 
 as the Nameless Marine who's the new guy at the UAC (United Aerospace Corporation) complex. However, 
 one of the scientists named Malcolm Betruger discover an alien artifact on the Martian surface 
 and literally all Hell breaks lose, as an entire army of demons have taken over the UAC base. Slapping 
 on your armor and shotgun, it's your job to send the demons back from whence they came and close 
 the portal to Hell before the demons reach Earth. While it's nice that there's an actual story 
 this time around, its not particularly deep and feels like an excuse for you to shoot demons, but 
 it's there so do what you want with it. =P The game was released back in 2004 but the graphics 
 still hold up surprisingly well, with excellent use of shadows and lighting to give you a feeling 
 of dread. Sound is somewhat mixed as the weapons lack that "kick" and feel very weak. Your footsteps 
 are also incredibly loud and you wonder why every demon isn't on you every second. However, the 
 monster sound and redesigns are top notch and really show off the graphics engine. The game still 
 has its flaws though. It relies way too much on trying to shock you that it soon gets old. One 
 of the techniques is the "monster closet" where some unseen panel opens up and a monster attacks 
 you. That's scary for the first 3 times but after that it gets really old. The monsters become 
 a bit too predictable and by the end of the game, its not really that scary (except the Hell level) , 
 not like F. E. A. R. or Condemned: Criminal Origins. And then theres the flashlight problem. If the 
 future of weaponry is to have guns and flashlights separate, then I fear for tomorrow's soldiers. 
 Overall its an old-school shooter and despite its flaws its still a worthy game since Doom has 
 always had a special place in gaming history.
  
  *Revised review to reflect my current review standards.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmnpayam
Rating: 7
Date: May 11, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  kill, kill, kill and kill again never needs your mind at all. if you gonna waste your time its the 
 best way you can do. by the way its graphic's wasn't as good as they said and its not beautiful 
 to see some monsters with details and few human with no hair and simple faces. and how can you belive 
 to kill such many monsters easily. it was for sure one of easiest games I have ever played. after 
 some hours I felt that I'm a stupid guy to waste my time that way. also it wasn't better than perevious 
 games in this series. in this game your enemy is completly fools and never react in a new way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cc_jjaayy
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  i think this is this game has the same fun factor, graphics factor, storyline factor, sound factor, 
 and gameplay factor as quake 4 for its time.
  this is almost quake 4 a year or 2 back.
  i think this is this game has the same fun factor, graphics factor, storyline factor, sound factor, 
 and gameplay factor as quake 4 for its time.
  this is almost quake 4 a year or 2 back.
  i think this is this game has the same fun factor, graphics factor, storyline factor, sound factor, 
 and gameplay factor as quake 4 for its time.
  this is almost quake 4 a year or 2 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brutalus7
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 6, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Like everyone else, I was uber-excited to get into Doom 3 and back into the old days of blowing 
 away Imps. It was (partially) the cause of me upgrading my PC. The graphics are great, but I think 
 there are just too many problems for this too be a all time great shooter.
  
  1. It's way too dark. I realize that id is trying to employ the 'scare tactic' here, but it's a 
 little ridiculous. Not being able to see anything and then not giving you a gun with a flashlight? 
 Come on. At least Imps give off light when they're trying to hurl some Plasma at you. It was just 
 a little too much darkness for my liking.
  
  2. When you start to reload, you can't switch weapons. This is dumb. I don't think I'd be trying 
 to reload a gun while being smitten by multiple Imps and Wraiths. Not a major beef, it just breaks 
 the mood for me.
  
  3. Monster "closets" are everywhere. It's insane how many Imps, Zombies, and other creatures wait 
 for you too pass them only to come out of hiding and get some cheap damage on you. And when they 
 put Imps right on the other side of a door, ready to pounce as soon as it was opened, not giving 
 you a chance? Weak.
  
  These things combined made Doom 3 pretty weak for me. The end (after getting the soulcube) was 
 excellent, but by then I had been worn down by the lengthy middle of the game and I didn't really 
 care anymore. If they would have cut out a couple sections of Delta Labs, or given the soulcube 
 to you a few levels earlier, it might be a different story, but as it is, it just gets annoying 
 to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saiyuke223
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 5, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  TO start the game has great graphics game is pretty much glitch free I hav eplayed an beat this 
 game about 4 times the game has a very good and catchy story line especially when you have surround 
 sound its even better makes the game come alive with game play similar to the orginal doom's only 
 big difference there is actually a story but still the kill all action and fast paced heart pumping 
 action we expect from Id back to teh sound aspect the fact when you have surround that when taunting 
 voices come through all around you makes you cringe and makes the paranoia rise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace91
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 5, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  The Story:
  
  You'r a Marine on your way to mars along with the counselour Swann and his Bodyguard Campbell, 
 you have been sent to take the place of a missing marine, your first assignment is to search for 
 a scientist and take him to the Marine Command, so you travel down to Mars Underground City and 
 find him in the comm room, where ha starts to talk about hell and the devil and that he must warn 
 them, screams and "Somethings Wrong here" comes from the screen and suddenly the room is lit with 
 pentagrams, a dozen skulls comes and starts to blast into humans eating them into zombies, so you 
 kill the scientist who suddenly wants to eat your very own flesh and blood and hope you'll survive 
 as demons and Hell builds itself onto Mars...
  
  The Plot:
  
  It's a remake of the first Doom game, who as a Demo Software is still stated as the most installed 
 software of all time, not even Windows could match Doom, the difference is that here you have a 
 scientist who calls himself "Malcomb Betruger" and unleashes hell and you'r on "Mars then Hell 
 then Mars" instead of "Phobos then Deimos then Hell"
  P. S. The Marine still don't have a name...
  
  The Graphics:
  
  Scary, Scary and Great, 
 I can still hear John Carmacks words: "Not even our top-computers could run Doom3 at the full quality 
 and good FPS when we released it"
  
  The Sounds:
  
  Just as the Graphics, scary.... Great voice-actors
  
  The Gameplay:
  
  Typical FPS, WASD+Mouse, 
 it still works after 8/9 years (Quake 1)
  
  
  A GREAT GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sda100175
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Back in college, my days were spent red eyed and dry mouthed and my evenings were spent fragging 
 floormates over dialup in Doom 2. Doom 2 was the first (and to this day, only) multiplayer game 
 I've ever gotten into. I have gone through and finished almost all of the seemingly endless single 
 player levels in Doom 1 and 2, so I know the game inside out.
  
  I was pretty excited about Doom 3. The graphics were awesome but I worried about playing it on 
 my souped up laptop.
  
  Turns out it ran fine at a lower resolution, and I was able to play the game. This game is incredibly 
 atmospheric! It's downright scary at times, which is exactly the point. You'll twitch when the 
 imps appear out of thin air. Your heart will race when you hear the "death dog" charging down the 
 hallway and see his shadow around the corner. You'll jump when lights pop out or pipes burst behind 
 you. It definitely feels like your alone in a dark and dangerous place. Amazing. A+ for presentation.
 
  
  The gameplay itself has changed very little from Doom 1, save for the WASD+Mouse setup now (no 
 auto-aim) . The weapons are pretty similar. The enemies, though creepy as hell, are pretty stupid 
 - only the areas with hordes of enemies will give you any trouble. There's a real story now but 
 it's pretty basic. This is still a shoot-em-up primarily.
  
  In short, Doom 3 is an awesome sensory experience built on top of a run-of-the-mill FPS paradigm. 
 Though not deep, it's fun, and you'll definitely remember the feeling of playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoodThing00
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  One of the best FPS of all time has come back, with amazing grapics, great sound and more demons.
 
  
  The story: As a your first assigment on mars, you are to find a researcher that has disappeared, 
 you are given a flashlight and a pistol and are sent on your way.
  soon enough you find your researcher in a abandoned satellite building, and all hell suddenly breaks 
 loose.
  Now you have to fight your way to whatever started this, and end it. enjoy!
  
  Grapics: Amazing, the enemies are beautifully made (in a creepy way)
  and mars have never looked 
 so good. 
  Alot of attention has been paid to the small things to, lights flickering, *living* rooms and more.
 
  
  Sound: Great, your enemies growl and scream just like real demons!
  
  Gameplay: pretty creepy, lights flickering, enemies jumping you from every possible direction and 
 your friend smeared along the walls, you really get the feeling that something is wrong =P.
  You can replay the game on different difficulties, but it's stilla fps, not to many times, still 
 great, and it's always worth a second try.
  
  Multiplayer: if you don't mod it, you end up with a maximum of 4 players on each server, not that 
 great, but if mod it you can have support to a max of 64 players!
  I can't rate the multiplayer modes, or the community since my internet connection isn't all that 
 great.
  
  Overall, much better that HL2 or anything other fps for that matter, get it.
  NOW!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 2, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  When I first started the game I noticed that the graphics weren't as smooth as they could have 
 been: zombies had that straight edge look when they moved instead of the smooth contours that would 
 be expected. I also found it quite easy for the exception of that big monster before you get to 
 the cyclopse. I managed to get through it in about a day and half or a day if I played it without 
 any breaks. 
  
  Doom 3 however, did satisfy my hunger for blood and brains which was a nice touch. It did have 
 some scare tactics too, this made up for some of the bad parts. That whole mirror thing in the 
 bathroom was pretty cool as well. I also liked the idea that I was never quite sure where I was 
 going to get attacked from or if I was going to get attacked at all. Monsters still jump out from 
 impossible locations (warping in would be so much more preferable to the "Hey! Was that monster 
 hiding in a broom closet?" approach) and the collecting of PDAs becomes downright mundane. Doom 
 was fun but FPSs have come a REAL long way since the days of that kind of gameplay.
  
  Doom 3 won't disappoint anyone looking for a fun shooter. If you're looking for something that 
 takes FPS to the next level or is an innovative game, you need to look somewhere else... it's just 
 not going to happen with Doom 3. Maybe Doom 4?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostyakuzmin
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 2, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Sorry for my English :/
  
  So... Doom 3 is great first-person shooter... And like I said it has amazing graphics :D Sound is 
 also cool :D.... I played about 15 hours and it's was really fun to play.... But I cannot say anything 
 else about this game... Story is REALLY STUPID!!! Yeah... one man kill them all.. Haha!!
  And there is one more stupid thing-flashlight... Why I can not use it while shooting????
  Doom 
 3 is dark... and it is difficult to find something in there...
  But I think each who loves first-person shooters have to play Doom 3... cuz this game is a revolutionary-AMAZING 
 GRAPHICS!!!
  
  Sorry for my English :/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  More than a decade has passed since the shareware release Doom redefined PC gaming, and it's been 
 five years since we first heard that a new sequel was in the works. There have been times when 
 this game seemed to be trapped on the same boat as long delayed Duke Nukem Forever and Team Fortress 
 2. So we ask the question: Is Doom 3 worth the wait? For anyone who recognizes the value of polish 
 and mastery of form over innovation, the answer is an unqualifiedyes."
  
  Story was thin in the first two games, but a Doom mythos has evolved nonetheless. Our setting is 
 the far-flung future, in which a mega-corporation's research efforts on Mars are about to go horribly 
 wrong. Players control a marine sent to beef up a detail low in morale, but all hell breaks loose 
 shortly after arrival. The setup and story bear more than a passing resemblance to elements of 
 Half-Life, but after the first minute, similarities cease.
  
  By and large, the gameplay is classic Doom... explore and kill, with an emphasis on the killing. 
 There's little innovation (outside the stunning graphics engine) but what Doom does, it does better 
 than almost anyone else. All the familiar, ugly faces are here: zombie soldiers, fire-balling Imps, 
 and that big fella, the Cyberdemon. Though each has been updated, all are immediately recognizable 
 and all are much faster and far more frightening.
  
  The primary new element in Doom 3 is a nerve-shredding level of darkness. The flashlight will get 
 more play than any other weapon, as casting light on shadowy corners is essential for survival. 
 Go ahead and map the flashlight key to the right mouse button immediately, since flipping back 
 and forth from torch to firearm will be a constant movement.
  
  Thankfully, id has done nothing to their simple, fantastic controls. Everything in the game is 
 smooth and wonderfully easy to use, to the point of transparency. That's essential, since enemies 
 can crawl out of nowhere, and an empty room can suddenly become a deathtrap. But the controls won't 
 let players down, and the game feels great as a result. Environment interaction can be cumbersome 
 in many games, but here, it's all simple and context-sensitive. Approach a human, and the reticule 
 becomes a talk icon. Sidle up to an interactive monitor (which are brilliantly done, by the way) 
 and you'll get a mouse-like cursor.
  
  There is one other mechanic that's new to the series. Scripted and triggered events, a shooter 
 mainstay since the pioneering work of Half-Life, have been liberally integrated into Doom. Those 
 shadowy imps flitting across the opposite side of a window, and the squads of roaming commando 
 zombies, are all triggered by player actions. There isn't a living world inside Doom 3, but the 
 scripting is so well done that the clockwork simulates life quite well.
  
  Each level is designed with a level of precision typically reserved for products of aeronautic 
 engineers. Most of the game is played in cramped rooms with ultra-detailed machinery. It would 
 be easy to get lost in the maze of unfamiliar areas, but players are pushed along a linear path 
 without feeling the tug of a designer's leash. The placement of health and weapon pickups is near-perfect, 
 and even the frequent door puzzles don't feel rote. And it all looks absolutely gorgeous.
  
  We won't go into the technical specifics that make id's latest creation look so good. Instead, 
 we'll simply say that, yes, it really is that impressive. What we see living on the screen is a 
 combination of dozens of elements, each perfectly tuned. Take the most lush pre-rendered Final 
 Fantasy backgrounds, add light and shadow that makes Ion Storm's recent efforts (Thief: Deadly 
 Shadows, Deus Ex: Invisible War) look primitive, and then crank every level of detail to 110 percent. 
 Then there's the physics, modeling, and animation, and the list goes on and on.
  
  Equal attention has been paid to the soundfield -- half of the game's power comes from truly intimidating 
 noises. Stereo speakers will do, headphones are better, but honestly, using anything other than 
 a digital 5.1 surround setup is an insult to the game. The surround fields are masterful, and positional 
 audio adds an essential element to the atmosphere. A constant din of machinery and distant carnage 
 is the backdrop against which you'll pause and listen for the telltale signs of nearby enemies. 
 Was that your footstep or a zombie's? The details are carefully constructed, too -- think the similarity 
 between sounds of a door closing and an imp appearing is coincidence? Nope.
  
  So what's the downside? In a word, hardware. As in, you'll have to sell your car to buy some. Pentium 
 3? Upgrade. Getting by on 256MB of RAM? Not anymore. Still running Windows 98? Doom 3 scoffs at 
 all but Windows 2000 and XP. Got the picture? With great power comes weighty tech specs, so don't 
 take this beast home without prepping a proper cage first.
  
  The current paradigm demands that all those game elements be brought to a multiplayer scenario, 
 too. But Doom was primarily planned as a solo game, despite the late addition of deathmatch maps. 
 Perhaps fittingly, that's more or less the case with Doom 3 as well. There is a multiplayer component, 
 in which players can rock through old-school deathmatches with all the shadowy bliss of the most 
 modern rendering engine known to man. But the muscle needed to create light and shadow for the 
 multiplayer levels limits the player count to four. It's fun stuff, but has yet to grab us like 
 the solo game did.
  
  The one area where the game comes up short is longevity. Dedicated players will finish in a day 
 or two, while higher difficulty levels and the sparse multiplayer probably won't carry Doom 3 into 
 2005 for many gamers. id isn't releasing a robust toolset with the game (as Valve has promised 
 with Half-Life 2) , but we're betting new content from obsessed coders will keep the game alive 
 a little longer.
  
  But questions about the game's half life are almost irrelevant (and excuse the pun) . Doom 3 is 
 so perfectly constructed, so deliciously immersive and downright elegant, that demands for more 
 seem crass. It might not be the very best shooter out there, but it's the more visually stunning 
 and successfully atmospheric than any game we've had the pleasure to play. Products of this caliber 
 don't come along very often -- Doom 3 closes the door on a landmark era of gaming by doing its 
 duty with more art and craft than any other developer is likely to muster.
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Der_Bestrafer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  An excellent shooting game 
  Guarantied hours of fun and fear....
  but a bit too much shooting without thinking sometimes...
  and I 'm realy not decieved by this 
 adaptation of this classic which remains odl-scoolish (a bit too much?)
  But what is the purpose of the game 
  to frighten us or to give us fun? we don't realy know they 
 manadged to make it an hybrid 
  I won't tell you it's one of my favorite games because I love the stories, the suspence and there 
 is none here 
  
  My advice 
  A game to play when you wanna wake up or just have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: A bit creepy, keeps you on your toes, lots of guns, lots of demons, hanging bodies, guns, 
 demons, pentagrams, superb sound and graphics, and, oh, did I mention demons?
  BAD: Extremely repetitive level design, no storyline to speak of, very linear, cheap tricks to 
 scare you become repetitive and predictable quickly, no originality
  
  Exhibit 1 in why settling Mars is a bad idea. We'll open a portal to Hell! Okay, maybe not, but 
 Doom 3 could sure convince you of that through its excellent presentation and realistic graphics. 
 Welcome to Doom, where skinned Human bodies hang from the ceiling, pentagrams and other demonic 
 or otherwise cool symbols grace the walls and floors, and powerful guns blow up everything in their 
 path. Yep, that about sums it up.
  
  As in a vast majority of FPS games these days, Doom 3 does not stray from the traditional shooter 
 formula, sticking to the tried-and-true method of shoot badguy, shoot next badguy, open door, and 
 shoot badguys behind door. Normally this would be a recipe for disaster, but... come on... this is 
 Doom!
  
  The main thing that sets Doom apart from the rest is its excellent and creepy atmosphere. While 
 the game only outright scared me on a couple of sequences, both of which relied on suprise, it 
 is a bit creepy and constantly keeps you on your toes. A demonic sort of hum, breathing, outbursts 
 of evil laughter, whispered words, and even a sort of violent hiss, all occur at random intervals 
 throughout the game, keeping you on your toes as you watch for danger around every corner, in every 
 dark room, in every nook, cranny, corner, closet, bend in the hallway, bathroom, staircase, doorway, 
 catwalk... well, you get the point. 
  
  And while Doom 3 isn't revolutionary in any way, it doesn't need to be. Every level essentially 
 looks the same, the environments are dull and grayed out, and the combat is the same all the time. 
 All the same tricks are used to scare you throughout the game, making the game very predictable 
 after a while. It was also fairly easy, although the campaign was pretty long (I got about 20-25 
 hours in, and I didn't even finish it, so don't ask me about the final boss battle) . Like any other 
 game, Doom 3 has its share of tense moments. I remember one occasion where I had to ride down an 
 elevator with just 7 health with no health nearby, and with demons waiting at the bottom of the 
 elevator (around the corner) . So I got on the elevator and tossed a grenade around the corner to 
 dispose of it before it could do the same to me. But I had to fight through an entire roomfull 
 of demons with the same amount of health... needless to say, it took me a few tries. Doom 3 just 
 gets the aspects of a shoot 'em up down superbly without needing to be revolutionary, while including 
 spectacular graphics, sound, and atmosphere.
  
  And speaking of the graphics and the sound, both are incredible. Even one and a half years later 
 the game looks fantastic. While there are only a few select outdoor scenes, they look just as spectacular 
 as the indoor scenes. The dull, faded colors are essential to forming the atmosphere of the game. 
 Who needs bright, distracting reds, greens, and blues when you're focused on killing neverending 
 hordes of demons? The character models look excellent, and the cluttered indoor environments actually 
 look cluttered, despite being needlessly repetitive. The most spectacular thing about the graphics, 
 however, is the lighting. I found myself shooting at a badguy that moved right in front of me, 
 only to find out that was just the shadow as the real demon soon followed. One of the lights in 
 the game almost gave me a seizure, but other than that the lighting was excellent. You walk into 
 a dark room, thinking you're safe, and then suddenly you hear the sounds of a demon ripping you 
 apart as your screen blurs red. Other times, you turn on your flashlight, only to find that there's 
 a demon right in your face, triggering your instnat shooting reaction. The sound is top-notch as 
 well. The afore-mentioned random demon and background noises. The voice acting is pretty good and 
 the normal sound effects are excellent. I don't recall there being any music, but there could have 
 been at some point.
  
  Then there's a few of the little things that add to the atmosphere. You have a PDA that gives you 
 valuable information as you go along, while at the same time you can pick up other people's PDAs, 
 read the files in there, and even listen to or watch some clips. And while the vast majority of 
 the PDAs are useless, they are certainly interesting and, if you're like me and you crave the deeper, 
 atmospheric parts of the games, you'll read and listen to every single one of them, no matter how 
 useless they are.
  
  All in all, Doom 3 is a solid, albeit often repetitive and completely unoriginal, game that nails 
 down many aspect of a typical shoot 'em up without the need to be revolutionary. The little touches, 
 such as the PDA files, and the random demon noises that pop up from time to time, serve to fuel 
 the atmosphere of this game, which is its strong suit. Then there's combat, combat that involves 
 big guns, demons, more demons, and some more demons over there, some up there, a few over there, 
 and a bunch more behind that door. Demons, demons, demons. Lots and lots of demons. Demons galore! 
 Okay, I'm done now. Seriously, if you have even a passing interest in FPS games, pick this one 
 up. Despite its repetitive shortcomings, it would make a solid addition to your collection. Just 
 turn off the lights, lock the doors, and buy a surround sound system. Trust me... it works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 27, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Doom III is a linear dungeon crawl through dark and narrow corridors that never seems to progress. 
 Seemingly every level provides more of the same shadowed and creepy surroundings with foes waiting 
 to pounce on you when you least expect it.
  
  For the first few weeks, I thought, "This game is jolting! I almost crapped my pants when that 
 imp appeared out of nowhere and started wailing on me!" After I'd gone through most of the game, 
 I started to wonder if anything at all was ever going to change, because the shock value was all 
 but gone.
  
  Doom III sports fantastic looking graphics, sets, and foes. The only problem is, it's so dark that 
 you're not likely to see very much of them. The darkness adds to the mood, and the game is visceral 
 at its onset, but after you've played a good long while, you start searching for the "Duct Tape 
 Flashlight Mod" so you can shoot and see at the same time.
  
  The crawl is VERY linear. There is practically no choice besides going forward through a narrow 
 corridor, besides finding an occassional small room with some loot.
  
  Blasting the creatures is fun, but no matter where you hit them, it counts as a hit. Head shot? 
 Nice try, but you're not gonna' bring 'em down any faster. In this day and age, more attention 
 to these details would be nice. 
  
  Graphics don't make the game, I'm afraid.
  
  Had I written a review when I first bought Doom III, I probably would've slobbered all over how 
 cool it was, but after playing for awhile, it's lost all its magic. It now sits on the shelf with 
 the other games I don't play anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdnp2035
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is so good looking, that freaks me out. It is crunchy awesome. Dig.. The enviroments are 
 so thematic and subtle, it is art. It invokes that uAC-ID style.
  
  This has to be 100 words long!? I didn't sign up for this..
  
  Seriously though, it is like 
 roving through someone's sick imagination, with all the cool little repeating signals and slowly 
 rotating patterns a head should have. 
  
  Artwork I tell you! 
  
  The only thing that could possibly be better in Doom 3 is the physics. Demons don't fly back enough 
 when shot in the face with a shot gun. Not only would this look cooler, but it would feel a little 
 more realistic. And give another moment to reload while in close combat.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: exhorst
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I was so scared of it that I unistalled it and put it away, never 
 thinking I would play it again. About a week later I gave it another go, and WOW what a ride it 
 was! 
  
  Doom 3 is the best looking game ever made as far as I am concerned. Even today I still think it 
 is. Yet you do not need one of the fanciest computers in the world to play it. I have a Pentium 
 4 2.4Ghz, 512mb RAM and an XFX 6600 256mb AGP and I can run the game at high detail and 1280x1024 
 res very smoothly. Yeah, it may be a real simple shooter, but when you are actually playing the 
 game on a 5.1 surround sound system in the dark I tell you there is nothing quite like it. 
  
  The sounds and just the atmosphere of the game make it so intense and scary that you need to 
 just pause the game and take a breather. It is a great value game, there are so many different 
 mods for the game to download, and the single player campaign takes a while by itself. 
  
  The multiplayer is only OK, what annoyed me most about it was the weapon balancing. Spawning right 
 infront of people with a rocket launcher while all you had was a pistol isn't that easy to deal 
 with. 
  
  The game is fairly easy, but the couple boss battles took some time. Completing the game even on 
 Veteran isn't that hard, especially once you start working out what weapon is best for each enemy. 
 I haven't tried nightmare difficulty yet though.
  
  This game can be recommended to anyone who likes FPS games in general, it is so much fun and a 
 good stress reliever after a bad day at work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  I finally got a chance to play it all the way through since I recently got my new computer. The 
 game isnt showing its age it still looks like one of the best games visually thats come out. 
 The shadows and lighting in it are great although much of the game is pretty dark. The enemies 
 all look great and some are a bit scarey looking. The game does get a bit repetitious in areas 
 but it didnt bother me much. Thats mainly just if your going through the game for a long time 
 in one sitting. the sound effects are pretty good though nothing really fantastic. This game may 
 not be as good as the original doom games but it is one of the best shooters out at least in the 
 top 10. 92 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rolfmeister
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  SERIOUSLY, I ALMOST HAD 3 HEART ATTACKS EACH HOUR I PLAYED.
  
  THIS GAME IS SCARY, AND NEVER GETS OLD, MY RECOMMENDATION.. BUY IT!!!!! he he he he h eh eh e h 
 e h e heh e h e h ehe he h e h e heh e h e he he h e he h e h e he h e h e h e h e h e h e h e 
 h e h e h e h e h e hehe h e hehe h eh e he he h e h e h e h eh e h eh e h e he h e h e he h e 
 h ehe h eh e h e h eh e h e 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilelf3214
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You really don't come across games like this everyday you know lol.. The storyline is 
 pretty decent nothing too big cause it doesn't really have anything to do with the previous dooms. 
 The controls, the way the game is made how everything is dark and you really can't expect what 
 will happen next.. this game will keep you on the edge almost the WHOLE time through.. Pretty creepy 
 how they made it all happen and etc.. Everyone few min or so something like pops out of nowhere 
 when your least expecting it and scares the **** outa me. Like when your just walking along in 
 a dark corridor or behind some wall looking around to see if anything or anyone is there and u 
 move around a bit but u keep hearing like a ragged breathing somewhere close by and you've got 
 your flash light with you and u look around the all of a sudden u turn around and behind u is a 
 zombie with like a wrench that whacks u in the face and all you have is your flashlight.. got really 
 close to pissing in my pants cause of this game and this has to be one of the best experiences 
 i've ever had with a FPS. The lighting system and the background music and the cries from a baby 
 or something makes the atmosphere so realistic when your playing and it just takes u you in....
 
  
  Graphics: WHOA.... my gawd.. every shot u made it leaves a hole or whatever wherever it went. Or 
 when you've your handy shotgun, your up close an personal with a zombie and you blow its head off. 
 The brain goes flying off somewhere and the head just explodes. Everything is just detaled down 
 to the very last thing even the guns and boxes and etc. The monsters seem so real and alive and 
 when they attack you with a fireball or whatever you'll see it coming and know what'll happen and 
 etc. Overall the graphics are top notch and this game is a game that ill remember.
  
  Sound: lol where would this game be without its sound the guns sound AWESOME and when the bullets 
 hit their targets that makes it even better. You can actually hear the bullets lodge themselves 
 into what ever your shooting at and the explosions rock. Like when you've got that rocket launcher 
 and you shoot a hell knight or something with it. It flies backwards and explodes and all of the 
 background sound and everythign is detailed sooo well to make it so it matches with the game and 
 scares u..
  
  Value: $40 for one of the best games out there with one of the best graphics in its time.. hell 
 yea! i wouldn't pass this chance anyday. Everything you've heard about it as being one of the best 
 shooters out there and etc all for $40 or less... i think i'd take it.... wouldn't u?
  
  Overall i couldn't give this game anythign less than perfect.. The whole game is just so realistic 
 and I like the scare =K I'd have to agree that this is one of the best FPSs out there and I'm sure 
 peopel will remember this game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MortalKombat147
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The graphics for the time this game came out are certainly one of the best in 2004. The game itself 
 though doesnt have much to it. After you get past the first out its pretty much a walk through 
 game and just shoot the zombies up besides the boss fights. You need a high end PC to run this 
 game so if you dont already have one it is not worth spending that 300 to 500 bucks on a new video 
 card to run this game. The game takes around 50 horus to complete but you will be bored out of 
 your mind before you finish it. It is a challenge to finish it because there isnt much story to 
 the game just shoot the zombie coming at you at and move on. I give the game credit for making 
 the game scary because if you turn of the lights when playing this game you certainly get spooked 
 by the zombies and monsters. Overall this game is worth buying if you are bored of the current 
 game you are playing but if you expect any decent story to the game this is not the game to buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Okay this game might not make sense for the most part and may not feel modern but its DOOM and 
 that is what matters because the story is still good the graphics are something not to miss since 
 zombies, imps, hell knights and so on kind of monsters lurck out of the darkness and scare the 
 **** out of you how awesome is that I mean it's probably not satisfying at the beginning it's when 
 you go to hell that meats the game it really does get scary you even have to fight 2 Hell Knights! 
 just before you go to hell but then you'll keep fighting them when you get to hell you ev en lose 
 all your weapons when you get to hell even the torch! So if you don't have this game go get it 
 I don't care what you say because you need it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boriscoolman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an okay game to me. Excellent graphics, nice sound, good scares and creepy environments, 
 good evil people. There are some bad things though. For the most part, I agree with gamespot admins. 
 The flashlight is a big problem. You cant carry a flashlight and a gun at the same time. And, this 
 game brings up a lot of questions, like how come you are not turned into a zombie. 
  
  The weapons are great. There are all different kinds of them, including the cool ones like the 
 plasma gun and the BFG. The game is long, so that is a good thing since when you beat a game you 
 dont want to play it anymore, and the difficulty is hard at first, but it gets easier when you 
 learn enemy patterns.
  
  This game is alright and I recommend a Doom fan to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  I love the doom series, always have and always will. Doom 3 proves to be a functional shooter, 
 but has lost a little edge that past entries in the series brought forth. The only way this game 
 is worth the money though, is if you buy the collectors edition. It comes with a kick ass metal 
 case and has Doom 2 and the ultimate doom on the disc which really bring back memories. If you 
 want a non expensive, fun , First- person shooter, you should pick this up. If you want a scary 
 game try resident evil 4 or silent hill 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer-Insticts
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: ok, so I could give DOOM's gameplay a 9 but I think a 9.3 would be a little low. The 
 gameplay like, is great cuz it always keeps you on your gaurd and it also is SCARY! Its Scary cuz 
 it is... ok because things pop out at you and the music gets all... um... suspensfullish. its also 
 scary cuz like you see a corpse and you get close to it and the corpse gets up, runs at you, starts 
 clawing at you and then you blast it with your shotgun. Experiences like that makes the game better 
 and stuff, I guess.
  
  Graphics: YES!!! YEA!!! YYYEESSS!! They are AMAZING! but the best thing is that they don't demand 
 too much of your computer! I'm not gonna get into that GRAPHIC CARD thingy cuz all I know is that 
 my graphic card is NVIDIA
  cuz I'm not like a geek or nerd... I have F. E. A. R. and that game demand a little too much so I can't 
 even put shadows, anyway F. E. A. R. is a GREAT game like, I'd give it a........9.9
  
  Sound: The sound is not that great cuz the pistol you get just sounds like a toy gun, so some gun 
 sound like the rocket launcher and gun and others don't sound great, but the zombies and demons 
 sound excellent. (although the zombies sometimes sound like they're taking a freakin' crap)
  
  Value: uh great I guess...
  
  
  Reviewer's tilt: good I guess too...
  
  LATER.........
 
  
  Oh, and also, one of the other things that make this game EVEN better, is that it's the only game 
 I've played that shows crap in a restroom!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie345
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  this game is great for regural fans of fps other wise it is not so good if your a doom fan i tohght 
 it had laot of the old feel to it but the one thing i can not stand about doom well two things 
 the flash light is sorta stupid i know it builds up the suspense but ith ink it already built up 
 enoguh and then the lack of a new story it is the same thing every time in it you go to mars and 
 then you go to hell not much change and the character really dont talk once in the game that i 
 reameber i dont even know his name now the graphics are just amzing but the levle design not so 
 much but that not so much of a draw back he gameplay is the same basicly the same type of game 
 as the old ones high supense shotting demonds and the sound is not so good but the graphics are 
 one of the best thing int his game and thats charlie word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3. This little gem came out several years ago and still blows people away to this very day. 
 It was the sequel to the original and had a lot to live up to. I'm glad to say that it succeeded 
 well, for the most part.
  
  The original Doom was a pure shoot-'em up. You went around blasting demons with an entire arsenal 
 of weapons at your disposal. And it was pretty fun. But with Doom 3, id decided to take a horror 
 approach to the gameplay. Imagine this, your walking down a corridor after going through a room 
 you just cleared. You hear a sound behind you and turn around, your shotgun pointing into the blackness 
 of the overly-dark facility. There's nothing there. You turn around and there's a monstrous Imp 
 in your face! You blast it away and are suddenly attacked from all sides. This is the basic premise 
 behind Doom 3's gameplay. You walk through the facility, collecting key cards and PDAs, while being 
 attacked from unlikely places by demons and zombies trying to scare the hell out of you. I say 
 trying because the game makes use of numerous "monster closets" where it is obvious that you'll 
 be attacked from. Many powerups and pickups are actual triggers for attacks, so you should have 
 your weapons ready if your going to pick up that spare bit of armor or pack of shells for the shotgun.
 
  
  The arsenal in Doom 3 is your standard FPS fare, besides some unique additions. You get: a flashlight, 
 pistol, machinegun, shotgun, etc. While the weapons are all sufficiently powerful and useful in 
 various situations, they sound and look a bit-underpowered, the weak coughing of the machine gun 
 comes strongly to mind...
  
  The Game has a just -right length of 17-20 hours on normal difficulty, but it tends to drag along 
 at the ending 6 hours. Impatient people will get tired of the monotonous and repetitive gameplay 
 and probably drop the game before it ends. If you love blasting demons and zombies though, I'm 
 sure that you can stomach the average gameplay.
  
  The Doom 3 engine is one of the biggest leaps in engine technology ever made. It is just plain 
 mind-blowing the first time you see it in movement. I can truly say that this engine is the first 
 one that can directly compete with some of the older CG movies, like Toy Story and Antz. The lighting 
 is truly phenomenal. Lights have visible sources, and they leave behind truly dynamic shadows. 
 Metal shines, plastic is dull, etc. The animations of the monsters' movements are just right, fluid 
 and downright scary at times.
  
  Sound. To make this kind of game, you need great sound. Well, Doom 3 has JAW-BREAKING sound. Everything 
 is life-like and scary. From an Imp slithering behind you to the boom of your BFG blast, nothing 
 to date compares with Doom 3's sound effects. If you have an EAX HD compatible sound card and a 
 nice 5.1 or 7.1 speaker system, patch Doom 3 and you will be BLOWN AWAY!
  
  After you finish the game, you won't have many other things to do. There's a rudimentary multi-player 
 mode that isn't superb, but still fun. You can replay the game on Nightmare setting, but that is 
 recommended for only the most hard-core and solid FPS players.
  
  Although it has its flaws, Doom 3 is an easily-recommended game. The beautiful graphics and sound 
 help complement the great gameplay in what is definitely a solid FPS. If you don't have it yet, 
 rent or buy it, it and ROE are only 20 bucks each now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DzeTSNotorious
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Doom III will leave you at the edge of your seat and have you cowering in the corner waiting for 
 somebody to kill you. I don't know if you've played this game, but it is intense and you can't 
 do any better than this for graphics or anything else.
  
  This game is based on a labratory in Mars and something goes wrong and all hell breaks loose and 
 the head scientist has got to be behind it all.
  
  You will die of mental break down sometimes if you're in berserk mode and you are surroundingthis 
 game has a dark frightning atmosphere and it is one of the best games you can ever play. 
  
  Words Of Edvice: Buy this game for sure no question this is a must have game!!!!!!!!!!!1 It's 
 crazy sick fun that you'll never get tired of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  More than a decade has passed since the shareware release Doom redefined PC gaming, and it's been 
 five years since we first heard that a new sequel was in the works. There have been times when 
 this game seemed to be trapped on the same boat as long delayed Duke Nukem Forever and Team Fortress 
 2. So we ask the question: Is Doom 3 worth the wait? For anyone who recognizes the value of polish 
 and mastery of form over innovation, the answer is an unqualifiedyes." 
  
  Story was thin in the first two games, but a Doom mythos has evolved nonetheless. Our setting is 
 the far-flung future, in which a mega-corporation's research efforts on Mars are about to go horribly 
 wrong. Players control a marine sent to beef up a detail low in morale, but all hell breaks loose 
 shortly after arrival. The setup and story bear more than a passing resemblance to elements of 
 Half-Life, but after the first minute, similarities cease. 
  
  By and large, the gameplay is classic Doom... explore and kill, with an emphasis on the killing. 
 There's little innovation (outside the stunning graphics engine) but what Doom does, it does better 
 than almost anyone else. All the familiar, ugly faces are here: zombie soldiers, fire-balling Imps, 
 and that big fella, the Cyberdemon. Though each has been updated, all are immediately recognizable 
 and all are much faster and far more frightening. 
  
  The primary new element in Doom 3 is a nerve-shredding level of darkness. The flashlight will get 
 more play than any other weapon, as casting light on shadowy corners is essential for survival. 
 Go ahead and map the flashlight key to the right mouse button immediately, since flipping back 
 and forth from torch to firearm will be a constant movement. 
  
  Thankfully, id has done nothing to their simple, fantastic controls. Everything in the game is 
 smooth and wonderfully easy to use, to the point of transparency. That's essential, since enemies 
 can crawl out of nowhere, and an empty room can suddenly become a deathtrap. But the controls won't 
 let players down, and the game feels great as a result. Environment interaction can be cumbersome 
 in many games, but here, it's all simple and context-sensitive. Approach a human, and the reticule 
 becomes a talk icon. Sidle up to an interactive monitor (which are brilliantly done, by the way) 
 and you'll get a mouse-like cursor. 
  
  There is one other mechanic that's new to the series. Scripted and triggered events, a shooter 
 mainstay since the pioneering work of Half-Life, have been liberally integrated into Doom. Those 
 shadowy imps flitting across the opposite side of a window, and the squads of roaming commando 
 zombies, are all triggered by player actions. There isn't a living world inside Doom 3, but the 
 scripting is so well done that the clockwork simulates life quite well. 
  
  Each level is designed with a level of precision typically reserved for products of aeronautic 
 engineers. Most of the game is played in cramped rooms with ultra-detailed machinery. It would 
 be easy to get lost in the maze of unfamiliar areas, but players are pushed along a linear path 
 without feeling the tug of a designer's leash. The placement of health and weapon pickups is near-perfect, 
 and even the frequent door puzzles don't feel rote. And it all looks absolutely gorgeous. 
  
  We won't go into the technical specifics that make id's latest creation look so good. Instead, 
 we'll simply say that, yes, it really is that impressive. What we see living on the screen is a 
 combination of dozens of elements, each perfectly tuned. Take the most lush pre-rendered Final 
 Fantasy backgrounds, add light and shadow that makes Ion Storm's recent efforts (Thief: Deadly 
 Shadows, Deus Ex: Invisible War) look primitive, and then crank every level of detail to 110 percent. 
 Then there's the physics, modeling, and animation, and the list goes on and on. 
  
  Equal attention has been paid to the soundfield -- half of the game's power comes from truly intimidating 
 noises. Stereo speakers will do, headphones are better, but honestly, using anything other than 
 a digital 5.1 surround setup is an insult to the game. The surround fields are masterful, and positional 
 audio adds an essential element to the atmosphere. A constant din of machinery and distant carnage 
 is the backdrop against which you'll pause and listen for the telltale signs of nearby enemies. 
 Was that your footstep or a zombie's? The details are carefully constructed, too -- think the similarity 
 between sounds of a door closing and an imp appearing is coincidence? Nope. 
  
  So what's the downside? In a word, hardware. As in, you'll have to sell your car to buy some. Pentium 
 3? Upgrade. Getting by on 256MB of RAM? Not anymore. Still running Windows 98? Doom 3 scoffs at 
 all but Windows 2000 and XP. Got the picture? With great power comes weighty tech specs, so don't 
 take this beast home without prepping a proper cage first. 
  
  The current paradigm demands that all those game elements be brought to a multiplayer scenario, 
 too. But Doom was primarily planned as a solo game, despite the late addition of deathmatch maps. 
 Perhaps fittingly, that's more or less the case with Doom 3 as well. There is a multiplayer component, 
 in which players can rock through old-school deathmatches with all the shadowy bliss of the most 
 modern rendering engine known to man. But the muscle needed to create light and shadow for the 
 multiplayer levels limits the player count to four. It's fun stuff, but has yet to grab us like 
 the solo game did. 
  
  The one area where the game comes up short is longevity. Dedicated players will finish in a day 
 or two, while higher difficulty levels and the sparse multiplayer probably won't carry Doom 3 into 
 2005 for many gamers. id isn't releasing a robust toolset with the game (as Valve has promised 
 with Half-Life 2) , but we're betting new content from obsessed coders will keep the game alive 
 a little longer. 
  
  But questions about the game's half life are almost irrelevant (and excuse the pun) . Doom 3 is 
 so perfectly constructed, so deliciously immersive and downright elegant, that demands for more 
 seem crass. It might not be the very best shooter out there, but it's the more visually stunning 
 and successfully atmospheric than any game we've had the pleasure to play. Products of this caliber 
 don't come along very often -- Doom 3 closes the door on a landmark era of gaming by doing its 
 duty with more art and craft than any other developer is likely to muster. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MSG55
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 was an amazing spectacle. But game play wise its a little hard to describe. The replay 
 value for one is very low, primarily because of the fact that this game is liner like hell. But 
 the experience the first time through is still fun, there were times that were actually pretty 
 scary, were its like your walking along a corridor and then from no were some demon jumps out at 
 you when you least expect it. Or even when you enter a room and then the environment and tone starts 
 to look ominous, but then after you start expecting something to jump out at you, nothing happens 
 but however even with this in mind, when you decide to replay this game, every thing is predictable. 
 Which takes the fun out of it. And another point regarding AI is. I cant really tell if its good 
 or not because the environment In Doom 3 is basically narrow corridors were movement is strictly 
 limited, even for the AI in which they can only be coming in one direction. And so Doom 3 will 
 often crate a situation were all you can do is point and shoot. Which gets repetitive. No room 
 to really doge anything or take cover.
  
  I can remember when Doom 3 first came out. Far Cry held the spotlight, but that soon changed after 
 Doom 3s release. Both games were different in the sense that doom 3 had much better graphics, but 
 thats all it had. Far Cry had good graphics but were it was strong in most was game play. But 
 despite that, Doom 3 still held the spotlight, and why is that? Because it had better graphics 
 and a more sophisticated engine or at least that was the hype. So my point is that the game with 
 the most complex and advanced graphics system will always be hyped about the most, whether it deserves 
 it or not. In the end of that year, Half Life 2 came out and basically shut Doom 3 and Far Cry 
 out of the spotlight for good. But this time as I see it, Half Life 2 had better graphics and game 
 play then both Far Cry and Doom 3.
  So all in all Doom 3 is worth playing. But after the first time around it gets dull. And thats 
 about it. I would suggest buying either Far Cry or Half Life 2 preferably Half Life 2 but both 
 is good. I have nothing to say about the multiplayer in Doom 3 because I havent had a chance to 
 play it yet, but I dont expect much. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fl4rty
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  so it was pretty good, but considering this is one of the most hyped games of all time, in m opinion 
 it fell flat on its ass, yes the graphics were good but alot of the time it was to dark to appreciate 
 them. it also had nice varied weapons and enemies but the gameplay was pretty boring and repetative. 
 as with the surrondings. the tension and atmosphere starts off good and thick but dont hold up 
 for long. and the multiplayer aint as good as say counter strike. overall id say there were better 
 games out there, nut this is good for the first few hours of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 8, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Extremely impressive from a technical standpoint yet behind the times from a first-person-shooter 
 design standpoint: This is the dichotomy that is Doom 3, the long-awaited sequel from well-known 
 Texas-based developer id Software. Doom 3 is quite possibly the best-looking game ever, thanks 
 to the brand-new 3D graphics engine used to generate its convincingly lifelike, densely atmospheric, 
 and surprisingly expansive environments. At the same time, when you look past the spectacular appearance, 
 you'll find a conventional, derivative shooter. In fact, if you played the original Doom or its 
 sequel back in the mid '90s (or any popular '90s-era shooter, for that matter) , you may be shocked 
 by how similarly Doom 3 plays to those games. The legions of id Software's true believers will 
 celebrate this straightforwardness as being deliberately "old school," especially since Doom 3 
 is packed with direct references to its classic predecessors. However, the truth of the matter 
 is that Doom 3's gameplay structure and level design are behind the times and very much at odds 
 with the game's cutting-edge, ultrarealistic looks. Yet the quality of the presentation truly is 
 remarkable -- enough so that it overwhelms Doom 3's occasional problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 8, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  When you consider the hype surrounding DOOM3 you'll be thinking that it can possibly be the GOTY 
 but DOOM 3 can't even be considered in the best shooters of the year.
  
  Graphics & the horror are the only thing that will blow you away. When I first played D3 i was thinking 
 that how can such a game get only 8. I found the answer to this after playing DOOM 3 for about 3-4 
 hours. The game can get repetitive & frustrating as you can either equip a flash light or a gun. This 
 is absolutely suicidal as most of the game takes place in darkness. Sound is creepy & immerses you 
 in the game. Gameplay could've used a lot more work. You'll find that out when you play it.
  
  If you can really survive the repetitive & sometimes frustrating levels then this might be 
 your kinda game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippyfly
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm a Doom fan. I remember the first time my friend lent me the doom shareware. It was the coolest 
 thing I had ever seen. I don't think I even knew computer games existed before Doom. I spent so 
 much time playing that game. Doom II as well. I even took it to the next level. I started editing, 
 making my own levels. My friends knew all the levels I made were semetrical. My mother thought 
 I was doing something productive.
  
  Years later...
  
  I heard about Doom 3. I checked everyday for new screenshots. I pre-ordered. I bought and built 
 a new computer to run the game. I had co-workers clipping out 'foxtrot' because it was about Doom.
 
  
  Then the game came out...
  
  It was unbelievible. At first. This is a good game. But that is it. Good. Not great, not classic, 
 just good. It looks great, but that will fade as time goes on. The problem is the core gameplay. 
 It is simply walk around in the dark with a flashlight, a monster jumps out, switch to your shotgun, 
 and repeat. The levels are all the same 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  This game came with a lot of hype but did not live up to the expectations it warranted.
  
  The graphics are superb and while not quite as good a Half-life 2, it comes a close second.
  
 
  However the gameplay was a huge let down after the first 30 minutes. It has bags of atmosphere 
 but the novelty of this quickly wears off when you spot the the weak triggers that sets the monster 
 spawn. There is a lot of action, but I felt this quickly led to this game becoming laborious and 
 the fact that the majority of it is indoors and is incredibly linear did nothing for replayability. 
 
  
  Doom 3 has stayed true to the originals, but FPS gaming has moved on, and although this has had 
 a good facelift, if you look close enough, the wrinkles are still there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOOM3Nerd
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  Firstly, one thing that annoys me is when people compare how scary DOOM 3 is to F. E. A. R. They both 
 scare you in different ways. In F. E. A. R. , what scares you generally can't kill you (i. e. little 
 girl) . In DOOM 3, however, what scares you CAN kill you (i. e. demons) . Both methods are equally 
 effective in making you soil your pants.
  
  I do agree with the gamespot review bout DOOM 3's game play being similar to the original DOOM, 
 and that it isn't very tactical. But making DOOM 3 a tactical game would really kill the gory nature 
 and mood that DOOM is all about. If DOOM 3 was tactical, you wouldn't be running up to imps and 
 blasting them away with a shotgun in a shower of blood the paints the floor and walls. This would 
 also take away some of the purpose of the stunning visuals in DOOM 3. Remember, DOOM 3 is basically 
 a recreation of the original DOOM, not a follow on from DOOM 2. It doesn't really have to introduce 
 many new things. As a recreation of DOOM, it is outstanding. If you rate DOOM 3 based on how WELL 
 it RECREATES DOOM, then it would be rated excellently.
  
  Another aspect of DOOM 3 that gamespot brought up was how it was "predictable" and could get "repetitious". 
 That is sort of true. Yes, all you do is kill monsters from hell, but it's like any FPS; in Half 
 Life 2, you mainly kill combine; in HALO, all you mainly kill is covenant, etc. And about it being 
 predictable, well, it being predictable is one of the reasons it is so scary. You're just waiting 
 for the next thing to jump out at you. You know what's going to happen, but not when it will happen.
 
  
  Another thing that annoys me is how the xbox version of DOOM 3 was rated HIGHER than the PC version. 
 How can you rate the game higher on one platform than you did for the same game on another? If 
 it's because the xbox version had the original DOOM in it, that's not fair. You're rating 2 games 
 against one. If any thing it should be rated lower on the xbox because they had to lower the graphics 
 quality and cut parts out (in some cases, whole levels) .
  
  Lastly, it's great how DOOM 3 runs great on most computers, even if they at the minimum requirements. 
 Before i got a new computer, I was running it on a 128 Nvidia GeForce 5200 FX. The machines CPU 
 speed was 2.0 GHz and it had 512 Mb of RAM. It was able to run it on high quality with most advanced 
 options on (except for A-A and sadly, shadows) at a resolution of 800 by 600. It ran pretty good 
 at 25-30 fps.
  
  Great game id Software!! Can't wait to see what they roll out next, now that DOOM and QUAKE are 
 finished. Should be really interesting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackCanopus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 4, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  For a fan that has been waiting for this game since 1999 (When it was called Doom 2000 back then) 
 this is the most disappointing game I could get my hands on. Doom 3 is powered by a cutting-edge 
 yet pc-friendly technology, the graphics are nothing short of amazing, game physics try to mimic 
 those of the real world, and if you have not noticed yet, uses one of the best sound systems on 
 the planet; but from the first second you start playing the game, you get the notion that this 
 game does not belong to Doom universe. Yes, it takes your breath away, but it is not Doom.
  Doom 3 uses a very advanced game engine. The engine uses bump-mapping techniques instead of an 
 increase in polygon counts, which results in a huge boost in GPU performance and decrease the amount 
 of RAM required for high polygon models. This setting has its own setbacks however, but model design 
 is good enough to cover them. Textures are not very well done in Doom 3. Because of weak texture 
 work, game environments do not have a natural look (yes, I know THEY ARE artificial, but good use 
 of textures could have added to the realism) and do not give you the feeling that you actually 
 are in Mars city. You should not expect those ultra-realistic environments of Half-Life 2 in Doom 
 3, and even when you are playing in Ultra quality mode, many surfaces have low quality textures 
 (have you ever noticed those small squares on the doors?) . The game also has a very advanced lighting 
 system, capable of creating spooky and dark environments. But the game does not use soft-shadows, 
 and thus results in less realism. 
  Doom 3 is game famous for its graphics, but its graphics seem dated and old, compared to high-polygon 
 modeling of Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay or amazing texture work of Half-Life 
 2.
  Doom 3 has a tightly scripted level design. The amount of work done here is amazing, because nearly 
 every single place in the game has a very complex design. While fun to play through environments 
 that seem to "think", it is just ridiculous to know that picking up that gun will spawn an entire 
 army of evil minions, or by opening that door a zombie will attack you from behind. Maybe level 
 designers have gone too far, and that "masterpiece" of a level design has just decreased the realism 
 of the game. In fact a little more freedom and a little less scripting could have led to better 
 results.
  But after all, it is the story and gameplay which make Doom 3 a disappointment. Unlike other games 
 which try to be uber-realistic, Doom 3 forces you to believe that it is still a computer game classic 
 FPS stuff- and nothing more. Monsters jump out from nowhere and start attacking you even when you 
 are well hidden. You open a door, monsters start jumping out, you kill them, and it ends. Open 
 that crate, pick up that gun or cross that line and they start jumping out. The gameplay is old 
 and dated: In a game this technologically advanced, youd expect to run and gun as you do in the 
 real world. You expect those guns to be heavy, and the fire fights must be intense and violent. 
 Instead you run around with a gun which should be at least 35 Kg, and you shoot it so easily, you 
 feel like shooting your little brothers (or if you are an adult, your son's) water pistol. And 
 it is interesting how those monsters attack you: one by one. You kill Mary, Mandy appears. You 
 kill Mandy, Candy comes out. You kill Candy, Cindy is out there.
  Doom 3 has a completely different story from the original Doom. While a little more logical, it 
 is traditional sci-fi stuff. But the story telling is not logical and leaves you unsatisfied. Ass 
 soon as you arrive at Mars, you are given your first mission. You cant even go to your room to 
 take a shower or rest, and your baggage stays right where you checked in to reception (WOW! It 
 seems those marines have gone far beyond the call of duty!) .
  Characters are not believable as well: their faces are lifeless and talking to the same character 
 over and over (in different clothes, of course) gives you an odd deja vu feeling. You will encounter 
 several characters after hell breaks loose, and their actions do not seem logical. Many of them 
 will simply refuse to follow you, and those poor guys who follow you manage to get themselves killed 
 in an strange, scripted way. 
  Doom 3 has a revolutionary and simple-yet-effective interaction system. When you approach an interactive 
 screen, your cross-hair turns into a mouse cursor. While very easy and fast to use, this feature 
 add some realism to the game, and the options that can be performed by this system (instead of 
 traditional Action-Key) are unlimited. Instead of pushing that button or pulling that lever, you 
 work with monitors or devices which have multiple choices.
  When Doom 3 blew us away when it first appeared in E3 2003. The game's settings raise the expectation 
 bars so high, they could not be reached by the final product.
  Don't get me wrong however, Doom 3 is still a great game. It is just those high expectations that 
 can not be fulfilled and leave me disappointed. It is a shame how a game that was expected to be 
 one the best computer games ever made, is just a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayoraldigital
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  The ultimate Doom Game is Doom3... so far. The Graphics are stunning. You must have a super graphics 
 card and computer to really enjoy the amazing quality of the graphics. The sound is great, you 
 can hear every scream and whimper. The game play is classic doom game play. 
  
  ID did a great job in the opening sequences of this game. The first person you run into on Mars 
 warns you and tells you to leave the place. The interactive qualities of this game were very refreshing. 
 But soon the game gets Evil and the fun really starts. You really do feel like Hell has come to 
 Mars.
  
  This game does an amazing job in the detail department. The rust and laptops and blood all look 
 great. The guns in this game can also be pretty powerful. This feels like you are playing the ultimate 
 FPS game. Has a good replay value and has a good ability to scare its players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spawnleon
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Well ive got too say this game has alot of scary **** in it! it powns alot of games for its horor 
 genre! the hell knights are wicked in the game! just imagine this game beating the **** out of 
 kingdom hearts 2, ( that games sucked so much, i got bored of it and returned it admeiatly! i swear 
 DOOM3 powns kh2 cause disney games are terrible and they should all go to hell! DOOM3 does'nt have 
 to back to hell because it already is hell! LOL XD i swear it is the best gore game in the world! 
 i will kill all with my almighty chainsaw of DOOM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bento
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Where the HELL did they release this game from, the portals of hell it self probley.
  
  This game was more up beat then the original doom games that they made in the past.
  
  The 
 scary thing about this game was the flickkering of the flash light, you can only hold one thing 
 at a time, and if your holding the flash light and you hear some thing, you very quickly change 
 from Light to GUN, but you can see where the demon is.
  So once again you put the gun away and switch back to your light, as as soon as you do, the demon 
 JUMPS on top of you, making your hear pulse beat some what faster then ever, panicing on the keys 
 to select your GUN, just to blow the demon in to orbit.
  
  The game was so cleverly done with brilient graphics, which made this 3D game, stand out alot more 
 thena the old doom games.
  
  Though the ORINIGNAL dooms where very good, but this one brings you closer to the game and fighting 
 the scary demon.
  
  it had me panicing every time i looked around the next corner.
  
  EVEN the mutliplayer matchs where very good.
  
  WARNING: never play this game in the DARK and 
 never play this game with LOUD speakers behind you.
  Always checking over my sholder to sit whats there. Breathing behind my back.
  
  Then a DEMON 
 jumps out and then hides again.
  
  So gald they made the DOOM MOVIE, made this game stand out alot more, making people think about 
 buying this game along with the E. Pack.
  
  Don't play this game alone.. !!!!!!!
  
  STAY ALIVE, STAY ALERT AND STAY EQUIPPED ALL TIMES SOLDIER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimic-Denmark
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  My History now wih Doom 3 since it first came out in 2004. Ive played games since all the way back 
 to the Nintendo Nes system, im only 21 but grew up with that, and on our first family computer 
 i bought Duke Nukem 3D. I play a lot off different genres, though FPS have always been the one 
 which has recieved the most attencion from me. Doom 3 is not a revolutianry game, but that dosnt 
 stop it from being the best game out there according to me. Ive Finished Doom 3 3 times now since 
 2004, and now i just joined game spot and wanted to give my review of it. Im a huge sci fi horror 
 fan, number one movies are Aliens and Terminator. And Doom 3 really sucked me into that world. 
 And not many games has done that, the graphics still look awesome. A game dosnt have to be revolutianry 
 to be the best game, many new games today that have gone after that, havent been any great accecpt 
 on that part. And Doom3 really has one hell :) off a world created, and that really is what matters 
 and makes a great game, plus story, and if you play trough you will actually find a good story. 
 And the darkness in the game that i have seen many have complained about, that is off the best 
 parts, this game has to have that, and i really hope that we are going to see so well made game 
 as this in the future. From 2004 there havent really been a game that has trown Doom 3 of the king 
 of fps single player chair yet, Far cry is a cool and fun game on its own, Half Life 2 is way overrated, 
 but very good game indeed still. But i think Doom 3 deserves more credit then it got, but hey thats 
 only my humble opinion. And i really think it deserves at least 9 but ill give it 10 in value from 
 my personnel opinion, because i actually dont have any complaints about this game, awesome set 
 up, great atmosphere and good interresting story. So if you are a sci fi horror fan like me and 
 if one of your favorit movies off all time is Aliens then dont hasitate to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radomu
Rating: 2.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is one of the worst games I've ever played. First of all, the enemies spawning right in 
 front of you makes the game hard and confusing. I felt terrible when an imp was spawned. Second 
 of all, every where you go is completely dark, which makes the game extra boring and hard. There 
 are rocket launchers that are highly powerful but it will do damage to you very often as well, 
 because the field isn't that big and you are in a hall way in most times, which makes it much more 
 boring. The worst feature it the blood and gore. When you kill a zombie, it gives you nightmares.
 
  So you should never ever play this stupid game that spoils the world of FPS genre. The only satifying 
 point can be the grafics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webchuzz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  Welcome to Mars. In this fantastic game, you are a marine that has been recruited to a mission 
 in Mars, more concretly in UAC (Union Aerospace Corporation) . At the beginning, everything is fine: 
 you see people working, doors normaly opening and closing, and other regular situations. When you 
 are told to go see a scientist, that is when everything starts go wrong. A evil spirit invades 
 the UAC, turning the majority of normal people into possessed people. This possessed people will 
 try to kill you, as they will try to kill theirselves. You're one of a little group of survivors, 
 including your sergeant, and one of your principal objectives is to find the base and call for 
 reinforcements from Earth.
  Among the bloody soils and roofs, you'll try to survive this bizarre and catastrofic happening.
 
  
  Doom 3 has an excellent graphics quality and an astonishing AI (during the game, you'll see people 
 talking between them, and movements aren't always the same) . This AI makes the game even more reallistic, 
 as you try to run away from the beasts, but they always find you. There's too some parts where 
 you can get frightened, like a sudden appear of a monster right in the front of your eyes. The 
 weapons are quite good and the reloading movements are fine, so this is a game that you are forbidden 
 to "don't play". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordanbarrantes
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This is the third entry into the lengendary doom series. Considered one of the greatest games of 
 all time, Doom kickstarted the fps shooter craze. Of course half-life would come later and showed 
 the fps are here to stay, you can't help but feel that doom is responsible for the now extremely 
 popular genre, even though it wasnt the first of its kind. Now anyways back to doom 3, it is the 
 long awaited sequel that people have been shaking over. So this game is quite different than the 
 original doom. In the original you remeber just running through the place shooting whatever was 
 in site and it was awsome. Of course times change and people are now accustomed to fps that combine 
 different elements together. That is not the case in doom 3, and while most people are fun with 
 that, the standard run and gun isnt always fun, especially when its going on for 15 hours. To get 
 it out the game is creepy, really creepy. Try turning on your surround sound system with the subwoofer 
 on full blast and the lights out on a dark night. Your white underwear will be yellow by the end 
 of the night. The graphics are half the reason it is so creepy. To put it this games graphics are 
 amazing. Even compared to games like F. E. A. R. and Far cry and Quake 4 it holds on it own. The amazing 
 lighting effects to impressive special effects. The other half it is so creepy is the sound. The 
 sound is terrific, from the shotgun blasts to the terryfing screams of the demons, it is awsome. 
 Overall the gameplay really brings down the game as it fun at first but after 3-4 hours the game 
 just starts to go downhill
  
  My final thoughts: Now that the game is only like $20 bucks, its a definite must buy, just dont 
 except to be like wow this is wicked fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4ya
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I better keep this short because i have a lot of stuff to do. Doom3 is just flat out fun! The multiplayer 
 and single player is just fun and entertaining! Its so fun youll play your ass off! I have spent 
 so much time on this game, i spoent more than 100 hours because I beat the game, I am still playing 
 it and i always will. Its a tough game though because in this hell level close to the end of the 
 game well about 7 levels to the end, in this pit these huge and powerful demons called hellknights 
 come up, just one direction but they are very tough and is thee toughest of all the regular demons! 
 This game is pretty scary though because of the zombies, but I just love the varieties of the weapons, demons, zombies. 
 Its just an awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caliban94
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, simply amazing. It took over 4 years to make this game, and well worth my 
 $50 down at the spot.
  
  The thing I would like to first say is the Environments were simply
  A M A Z I N G
  I mean, 
 the liver or brains or whatever the hell was flowwing throughout the entire delat labs and everywhere 
 else looked so real!!
  
  The enemies were classic. It kinda reminded me of Final Doom for the PSOne painted over. But I 
 loved best of all killing all the civilians.
  
  I loved how all the enemies turned to ash right after you killed them.
  
  But, the best part 
 of the entire game was how F****** scary the game was. I never get freaked when I play games, but 
 this gae got my heart racing. I basically copuld only play for no more than 30 mintues at a time. 
 Lmao, I saved every 5 mintues 'cause I was so freaked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gladiator91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was one of my most highly anticipated titles of 2004. When I first played it, it was all 
 I expected and a little more, but also a little less. 
  
  Doom 3 has some of the most revolutionary graphic I have ever seen. The quality of the blood and 
 gore, character models, and levels are all superb. Environmental effects like the fire and the 
 windstorms of Mars are also beautifully rendered. The audio of the game is without a doubt the 
 best of any game I have ever played. Every weapon has its own unique firing and reloading sound 
 and make you believe that they are real. The monsters also sound real. Each one, with its own shrieks 
 and roars, sounds like a demon probably would. You can't really get sound like this in too many 
 other games out on the market today.
  
  Although technologically incredible, Doom 3 falls a tad short on gameplay. Its a straight forward 
 FPS, where you go room to room and shoot everything. Even though the action is intense, its not 
 diverse enough to last a long time. Online players will be disappointed as you can only play with 
 3 other people. This is probably the biggest downfall of the game. Despite it, the game shines 
 as a graphical and audio masterpiece. I recommend this for those who value graphics and sound in 
 their games and FPS fans, but not for those who play exclusively online. Nice Job id.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomlee129
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  I finaly won Doom 3 on ebay after watching the review on gamespot but the review is slightly harsh 
 on the game. from the loading screen to the end, Doom3 is intresting and thoughroughly entertaining 
 and realisticly never gets boring. this is maintained by the story, action, background and the 
 files on your PDA you pickup along the way. each is only given in small bit but the overall effect 
 is very good. the enamies and weapons arnt given in the traditional manner of better gun, harder 
 enemies. instead the enemies are reasonably hard but your guns arnt very powerful so especially 
 at the start you learn quickly to dodge and fire from a distance if you like to live. you fight 
 a variety of enemies straight off from the word go and new enemies are plentiful but far between 
 the games HUGE lenth. The story is drip fead through the PDA files and the few cutscenes around 
 the game and the story itself is actually quite good concidering doom was literally "kill bad things 
 before bad things kill you!" and those who like games for the story will not be dissapointed, and 
 if you just want to shoot things till they die then you wont be dissapointed ether. the sound is 
 great with just sterio but if like me you have surround sound then you will might as well piss 
 yourself now to save yourself the trouble later! the gaming enviroment is amazing and you have 
 to type in codes for lockers and you have to select what you want the swich to do on the console 
 insead of one button does all. this is a great distraction and gives the chance for things to sneak 
 up on you and generally inenvertantly jacks up the atmosphere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonmaster989
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Let me start with holy crap the graphics for this game blew me away they look absolutely amazing!!! 
 Doom 3 offers great and classic FPS action along with (at least in the beginning) scaring you when 
 playing in the dark. Although once you have played for a good amount of time, you start to get 
 bored of this game and when monsters appear it is all expected and it loses its novelty. I got 
 through about 75% of this game and stopped playing and uninstalled it, and then I reinstalled and 
 started all over, getting to about the same point and quitting. When I play this I think "This 
 is a great FPS" at first but 15 min. into I start thinking "Hhhmmm... Half Life 2 seems like a 
 good idea." I would suggest just getting HL2 instead if looking for a great all around FPS, but 
 if you want to be scared pick up F. E. A. R., a much better, much scarier FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchtropico
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is one of the best FPS games on pc!
  If you are a big fan of the original doom games like i am then this is the best of the best!
 
  
  Story:
  Your one of earths toughest marines stationed on mars. But its not all fun and games. Some stuped 
 sience guy desides he wonts to try something new so he opens the gates to hell and you are the 
 only one that can stop them from killing everyone in the universe.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in Doom 3 is some of the best. Unlike the original games, Doom 3 is in full 3D, With 
 real time effects. Monsters now screem and splatter things with drool, Walk around with chainsaws, 
 And Shotguns.
  
  Sound:
  Full 5.1 surround sound makes this game come alive. Sounds of Guns, Blood curdiling screems and 
 explosions! Its all in this game.
  
  Gameplay:
  This game is truly arsome! You get to run around collecting PDAs, Keys, Guns, Shooting and running 
 trough things with chainsaws! Wat could be better?
  
  All up it makes Doom 3 a must have FPS. If you system can run it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster067
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. If you want to buy this game you should know it takes hours to beat. It has 
 excellent graphics and and has a great variety of monsters. there are weak monsters like zombies 
 and stronger monsters like imps and maggots. The weapons are also good. My favorite is the shotgun. 
 but the best is the bfg 9000. It doesn't take long to learn to play. You just need good aim and 
 a tight triggerfinger. since ammo isn't unlimited you have to only use it when necessary. The anly 
 problem i had with the game was that it is hard to navigate through the levels. Also the final 
 boss battle was too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakulmen
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  
  Being a continuation of the series that began the single greatest gaming genre currently availible, 
 Doom 3 is an instant "must have."
  
  The game carries high-call graphics (Even for today) , making it stand out. This helps the game 
 achieve its main goal - horror. The entire point of the game is to immerse you in its environment, 
 making you feel like you are afraid, and not just crapping yourself because something jumped out 
 at you. You aren't paranoid . . . you really are afraid.
  
  The monsters really do freak you out, although they eventually wear out. All new monster encounters 
 are well presented when it comes to your first encounter with them (The Pinky demon is an excellent 
 example) . The sound the game produces also absorbs you into the ingenious "Scare-Factor" of the 
 game. The weapons are the same as the original, classic Doom, except they now require to be reloaded, 
 and the BFG blows up anything, including you.
  
  Although really well made, there is still the issue of repetitiveness. The Imps are seen throughout 
 the entire game, and you simply have to click once and there gone. The monsters simply start to 
 come out more and more, usually looking exactly the same as the last. This gives you the impression 
 that you've "Done it all" already. The other issue is that your flashlight is a seperate weapon, 
 so you must pull it out seperately. This means its either your weapon, capable of eliminating Demons 
 with ease, or a dinky flashlight, allowing you to see the Demon thats about to rip you a new one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattbirdy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Well yes you may have guessed but im a massive doom fan and i must stress i love this game its 
 different to what i was sued to from playing all the other WW2 shooters and the oringal doom and 
 quakes but the atompshere in this games you on egde you'll be tense wondering whats behind the 
 next corner... what was that a pipe... you sure... why dont you go have a look... nothing there 
 tho ???? then imps from everywhere yes youre being led into a trap but i dindt expect it basically 
 this games was the start and hopefully will be upgraded in years to come for the new ID games engine 
 so doom 3 and quake run on it and even now over a year from its release it looks great just a shame 
 they didnt add co-oop for the pc one without mods.... but the mods in this game are great for once 
 youve completed it i recently got hold of one that is the first chapter from the original ulitime 
 doom and i loved every minute of it the team had gone to all the effort to re- record the background 
 music but on a simple not i love DOOM3 its my favourite FPS ever and i used to like Medal of honour 
 but i still am a fan of call of duty but doom 3 takes the crown in my eyes...... grab yourself 
 this gem today the add on aint bad either :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Znuggles
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  A research facility on Mars goes to hell (and vice versa) , and guess who has to clean up the mess? 
 Yep, the janitor. But before that, you, armed with your keyboard and mouse, get to kill a vast 
 number of demonic creatures of one sort or another.
  
  Doom 3 is a very straight-forward first-person shooter. Most of the time, the rule "if it moves, 
 kill it" applies. Navigating through the many, many narrow corridors of the facility, you alone 
 have to wipe out the monsters and save the world. Along the way, you'll find PDAs belonging to 
 various personnel, and through audio logs and emails stored on the PDAs, you'll find out some of 
 the backstory as well as get some insight into the daily life on a creepy scientific facility on 
 Mars. You'll collect several different weapons, from common things like the machinegun and shotgun, 
 to more wild stuff like the chainsaw and the mighty BFG 9000. All the weapons feel great, and you 
 can carry an insane amount of ammo for most of them ("I have fifty grenades?! What the...?") .
 
  
  The highlight of Doom 3 is definitely the graphics. The textures are really well done, and the 
 enemies are suitably creepy and scary-looking. Lots of work has been put into the graphics engine's 
 lighting, but this also turns out to hurt the level design. So much effort has been made to show 
 off the lighting and the shadows it creates, that the levels are often much too dark. There were 
 many times where I was simply unable to see the enemies. Add to this the fact that the flashlight 
 you carry cannot be used together with any of the weapons, and you're in for some frustration. 
 There are mods available that enable you to have a flashlight attached to the weapons, but it seems 
 unnecessary to have to start downloading extras just to avoid being annoyed by a game. The lighting 
 is great, make no mistake, but they've gone way overboard when showing it off.
  
  Another thing that became annoying after a while were the constant "jump scares" throughout the 
 game. It seemed almost every corridor had a wall panel or something that would just happen to fall 
 out just as you passed it. Or there would be a jet of steam going "psssshhhhh". And then there's 
 the monster spawning in just behind you, the wall that suddenly opens up, hiding a monster or five, 
 and the sudden demonic laughter that comes from nowhere in particular. There is rarely any attempt 
 at building atmosphere, letting the player sweat for a while, wondering what would happen next. 
 Instead, the game just pours on one "BOO!" after another, which eventually just left me numb, and 
 not scared bye or excited for the game in any way at all.
  
  The level design does open up somewhat towards the end, when you move out of the cramped corridors. 
 There are some terrific boss encounters, and some of the larger enemies in the game are very impressive. 
 The sound is also very good, especially the voice acting for the various PDA audio logs. There 
 is very little music in the game, the generic metal tune on the menu screen is listenable, but 
 you won't miss it once you finish the game.
  
  There's a multiplayer segment to Doom 3, of course, but after completing the single player part, 
 I wasn't particularly keen on playing it any more, sadly.
  
  All in all, Doom 3 is a bit of a mixed bag. The presentation is great, but some of the gameplay 
 choices did not sit well with me. If there had been more emphasis on atmosphere and not these constant 
 attempts at making me jump in my seat, I suspect I would have enjoyed the game more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  Doom was defently one of the most popular FPS series in his time (and still is)
  and the father of all the shooters that follow him. I think it was and still is one of the most 
 amazing games ever in the short history of pc games.
  
  It's look like it took many years for id software to develope this game, and ones it was relesed 
 the expection bar was very high.
  
  First of all, it's the graphics which considerd the most advanced there is. id did there best on 
 developing a quality engine for doom 3 which clearly seen in the game. Although you need to posess 
 a super computer to run this game, something like the CIA have, you will be amazed when you first 
 see a monster jumped on you an then splashing to pieces. The shadows, the textures, the models 
 and especially the monsters are all well designed.
  
  Not once I jumped infront of the computer while playing this game when a eight eyes monster that 
 looks like a mutant dog jumped on me from nowhere.
  Beside the occasionly heart attack this game delivers, it's belessed by a wonderful plot that will 
 not embarce an Half-life game.
  
  The levels are also were desinged and have many secret doors and hints you can find to help you 
 understand the story better. But as you keep on playing in doom 3 you will see one of it's biggest 
 flaws- repeting gameplay that showen by the recycled levels and hallways.
  
  The varisety of the weapons is good enough to make me happy, and many weapons were recreated from 
 from the original game, like the the BFG (bad **** gun) and afcourse the shotgun.
  In the sound department id didn't skipp on good music that help keeping the action during the game. 
 The monsters and people sound good as well with good acting and the weapons sound's are also something 
 to remember.
  
  Although doom 3 is the heaviest game I have ever encounterd and won't work on old computers, there 
 is almost no technicals isusses and it's free of bugs.
  
  The multiplayer is nice but something we havent seen before with Team deatmatch and flga and more.
 
  
  To conclusion, if your dad works in the CIA or you just win the lottery and buy athe best computer 
 in the market, i say go and buy this if you like good FPS games, doom fan or just a fan of graphics. 
 Don't miss it!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hijij_ep
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  recently i had the very great pleasure of playing Doom 3 on my brothers 3000 dollar dell xps laptop 
 and i noticed one of his friends had installed Doom 3 on it so I took a look see and it was quite 
 the enjoyable experience, with dark rooms filled with those little bas-terds that you could empty 
 an entire clip at and hit nothing because you could not see, and long scary hallways with lots 
 of ambient whispers giving you hints and just creeping you out. the only thing i see that was wrong 
 with the game was that the sound on the weapons was a bit off, they should have been louder with 
 higher volume levels towards the lower end of sound frequency but still this is an amazing game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klint44
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  I do not think the game is old school. The story is great and the game is connected (cannot be 
 different) to its great older brothers. The graphics are just GREAT. The combat, movement and overall 
 gameplay is just painfully real. I love this game. I love the scary atmosphere and I love the connection 
 to the classics. They engaged the same monsters. And they engaged almost exactly the same weapons. 
 The ideas of environment are just brilliant and the boss fights are really full of heavy action. 
 I would disagree with the ratings round 7  8 and opinions of boring overhyped game. All things 
 considered it is still a classic. And as for a classic it is legitimately superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig_J
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  While there is no question as to whether this is a good game (it is!!!) I do think that it is much 
 too simple and old fashioned to stand up to today's shooters (Far Cry, FEAR) . The gameplay goes 
 back to FPS basics, kill monster, get keycard, move to next area, get new weapon, repeat. This 
 gameplay is well concealed beneath a beautiful graphics engine with real time shadows and truly 
 amazing bump mapping, and a tense frightening atmosphere. This game definately achieves what it 
 set out to do and that is to make you s**t yourself as much as possible. One thing I found is that 
 it is hard to play it for a long period of time-weird huh? Still I definately enjoyed the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an addition to the greata ction packed series. No word on yet of another doom series 
 coming out but we will keep our eyes open.
  
  Doom 3 brings us one of the scariest, grusome, and terrifying games, that have ever been made. 
 the graphics int he game are extremely well done (meaning excellent) , the sound is impressive, 
 the gameplay is totally new except, for some reason , you have to use a flashlight, 75% of the 
 time through the game, like whats up with that?.
  
  The game also features some new creatuires and demons to battle as you are sent to a mars facicilty 
 located on mars. You have to talkt o this one scientist, and try to ask whats going on with these 
 strange distubances, on the facility. After that the fun begins. There are some strange fat zombie 
 dudes , some with no heads or faces and still find you : | , You have a boos to battle every now 
 and then, one a huge freakingly scary spider, another some what 35 foot tall beats with a huge 
 cannon on its right arm that can blast and kill you in a split second. But the game over -all is 
 quite well done with new weapons, areas, allies, and bosses. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3.
  
  I bought it for twenty dollars, it was used.
  I was a avid Doom fan back awhile ago, I just loved booting it back up after a few years to enjoy 
 a chainsaw rampage in Ultimate Doom, or kick the Cyberdemon's big bad ass in Doom 2, but never 
 have a felt that the gameplay was getting old.
  
  Until now.
  
  While this kind of run and gun formula is certainly fine for a game released in the early nineties, 
 and will be much more pleasing with some crappy but classic graphical frontends, Doom 3 just tries 
 to use an old formula with technology meant for something much more complex.
  Which is sad, because while Doom 3 can be genuinly creepy at times, and even cinematic and breath-takingly 
 beautiful, there's just too much of the same.
  
  You'd think that after numerous graphical and technical achievements in the years gone by, id would 
 at least find a way to add a little spice into the game, but no, they insist on using a stale gameplay 
 style that had gone out of style when Quake 2's lifetime was over.
  Don't get me wrong, Doom 3 is fun! But I can't give it too much credit, it just doesn't push the 
 envelope with its gameplay.
  
  id made the right move when they decided to retain the classic look and feel to the enemies and 
 weapons, but there could have been at least a couple more different kinds of weapons or utilities, 
 most of the game's cinematic flair comes from PDA files (your PDA is your little assistant that 
 lets you pick up details on the plot, or just funny little letters or info) sometimes an interesting 
 cut-scene or event will come into play.
  But don't expect too much, Doom 3 relies strictly on good old run and gun shootin' . Now that isn't 
 bad, but after you blow away your fiftieth imp with a shotgun, you'll start to get the feeling 
 that it's getting damn old.
  
  The story revolves around one of the moons of Mar's, Phobos. On this moon is a research facility 
 with some secret project, a big project. Things start off a little creepy as you hear bizarre stories 
 from the staff of strange injuries and un-explained happenings and dissapearences, but things get 
 totally out of hand once a test phase of the secret project is ignitiated and all hell breaks loose, 
 literally. Turns out, that the project was a state of the art teleporting system, but quite by 
 accident, those coordinants were just a bit off, and happened to open up right in the middle of 
 Dante's Inferno, and all the demons decided that a tour on a scientific facility was much more 
 interesting than fire and brimstone.
  
  The presentation is amazing, sound is creepy, and the graphics are par-none (Half Life 2's character 
 models are the only thing that can possibly trump these) Lighting is exceptional, corridors will 
 appear haunted and blood-stained as you waltz down the dark halls and disturbing rooms.
  Screams and the beastly growls of your enemies will echo through the installation, and you'll hear 
 the tortured cries of many victims. The monsters look incredibly convincing themselves, old classics 
 return. Some notable examples could be the undead Marines, the Imps, Cacaodemons, and the famous 
 Pinky demons. 
  In fact, the first time you're locked inside of a small room watching a pinky trying to ram its 
 head through a glass pane to get to you, you'll be crapping your pants. 
  
  The gameplay is predictable. And this is where Doom 3 falters. It is fun, no denying, but fun does 
 become a bit stale when you find that you've been doing the same thing for five hours. This is 
 still the key-hunting, monster killing game that the original Doom was, and it's showing its age. 
 There could have at least been a few new weapons, but unfortunatly, you only have the original 
 arsenal of weapons along with one or two new additions, most notably the Soul Cube, which isn't 
 really that interesting anyway.
  
  If you liked Doom, get this. If you like FPS games, get it. If you like thinking, or new innovative 
 games, skip Doom 3. It ain't bad, but it's only more of the same, and while that's fine for me, 
 it just doesn't satisfy as it could have.
  But thanks to mods and a great community, if you don't find interest in vanilla Doom 3, maybe some 
 modding genius can help you find the true potential for the engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vittoriobaky
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  Personally, I was waiting this game from a long, long, long time. I've been a huge fan of Doom 
 games (especially of Doom 2) , so no wonder my expectations for this game were high. Too high.
 
  
  The graphics are awesome, with the best shaders, shadows, lights, and mappings ever made so far. 
 I won't give it 10 though, because people looks like plastic.
  
  The sounds are very well done too, and while the game doesn't have many musics, the awesome radios, 
 screams, metal-noises make the game sound really scary! And not only that scares...
  
  The gameplay is not bad: mostly scary monster appearings (even though they're scripted, so they 
 won't have any effect on you next time) , and the "alone" feeling is going on well. It's also true, 
 that the levels are extremely linear, and sometimes boring, and the fact that you pass from Mars 
 to Hell, won't really change the situation.
  
  The multiplayer is one of the worst ones I've seen in a FPS recently. It has it, it has some fancy 
 levels, and the well known weapons but... only 4 players. Sure, there is a mod to play it in 32, 
 but officially it is for 4 players. That's bad. And no, there is no cooperative mode, only deathmatch. 
 At least the game is easily moddable, and there's some decent mod around.
  
  Overall, Doom 3 is a nice game, for the time it lasts, but don't expect the Doom style, and neither 
 the id quality of this: you'll be disappointed then. Expect a short but immersive ride with some 
 of the best graphics and sounds ever, and then leave the CD in the game-box, like you never touched 
 it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HugoFromBoss
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is essentially the game that id would have originally created in 1993 if they'd had the 
 technology to do so at the time. The story-line is basically Doom 1 all over again, but fleshed 
 out with more back story, dialogue and characters (teleport on Mars break through to Hell, demons 
 jump out, you have to shoot them in the head etc.)
  
  The game play is outstanding, and unique. The only game I can think of that even comes close to 
 generating the levels of fear and tension in Doom 3 is System Shock 2. There were some complaints 
 that Doom 3 was too dark, leading to forever switching between gun/torch; I feel that the people 
 who mark the game down for this however, clearly have no idea of how to create tension in a game. 
 The constant switching of flash light and gun made the game more terrifying and immersive causing 
 you to jump and the hit the keyboard preying you where hitting 3 to take out your rifle. 
  
  The programmers deserve all the praise they've received for their invention and design. The 
 levels twist and turn, ratcheting up tension, and then hurling some truly gruesome enemies at you 
 (the Cherubs are particularly disturbing) . Fans of the old Doom games will recognize some of the 
 weapons and baddies, such as the revenants and pig demons, and the chainsaw makes an appearance! 
 
  
  There were some criticisms of the game, such as it's too dark (it's meant to be) , and you can't 
 use the torch and hold a gun at the same time. Yet this is what adds to the whole experience. It's 
 meant to claustrophobic and scary, not some dumb shoot-'em-up like Serious Sam.
  
  If there was one criticism I'd level at Doom 3, it would be that it's not very re-playable, unlike 
 Half-Life 2. The monsters are easily predictable after a while as they constantly re-spawn behind 
 you and try to scare you. You really do have to be in the mood to play this game, as you would 
 have to be in the mood to watch horror movies. Yet as this it stands out as unique amongst hundreds 
 of forgettable games. Id have achieved exactly what they set out to do - create a truly scary, 
 unique game with tons of atmosphere. Imagine being in a horrible combination between the original 
 Doom and the film "Event Horizon", and you're pretty near the mark.
  
  Oh yes and in order to play DOOM 3 run out and buy the following:
  
  - Projector
  
  - Logitech 
 Z5500 Speaker System and Spare underwear (and to be preferably far away form your neighbors)
  
  -Only play with the lights off
  
  -And speakers ON FULL
  
  Great Game thumbs up =D
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T2DJake
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game I mean there are times where you jump but overall its a fun game to play. 
 The graphics are awesome I mean you can even see the hair on the players arm when your playing 
 and if you compare the Xbox version to the Pc version the graphics are way nicer. It really doesnt 
 take a long time to learn the game it pretty basic you know C's for Crouch and W, S,&D are to move. 
 The difficulty of this game is just right its not too hard but not to easy. The voice acting for 
 this game is fairly good and the sounds the monsters make are pretty good also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  DOOM 3 is so cool the graphics ar so cool but you now haw thei say graphics doven't meke the game 
 the GAMEPLAY dos. But stil the gameplay is veri good the stori line is veri impresiv , the wors 
 part is that your character dosen't have a name or you won't here hem tolking: ( ( (. well you are 
 a marine, one of earth's toughest , hardened in combat and trained for action .Shorly after you 
 report for duty at the Union Aerospace Corporation's Mars research facility , a massive demonic 
 invasion overwhelms the base , leaving chaose , horror and uncertainty in its wake. as one of afew 
 survivors, you must use overwhelming firepower and all of your combat skill to battle through the 
 demon hordes , find out what went went wrong and prevent the evil from spreading. ONLY YOU STAND 
 BETWEEN HELL AND EARTH. Doom3 is a veri good game I enjoy playng this game I hope you to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wesker16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  Greatest Game. DOOM 3 has been one of gamers' most anticipated titles ever since it was announced. 
 Its creators, id Software, have arguably done more for modern gaming than almost any other developer 
 over the last decade - while they haven't developed a huge libary of games, the technology has 
 been revolutionary and the gameplay has mostly stood the test of time. Some think that id have 
 been slipping over the years, with the successful but not-so-legendary Quake 3: Arena and downright 
 disappointing expansion pack Q3 Team Arena. 
  
  Doom 3 is bound to sell a lot of copies -- id Software is hugely respected by gamers and the PC 
 version of this game has had a lot of exposure during its development over the past few years. 
 In fact, you may remember that id Software's own John Carmack several years ago took the Macworld 
 Expo keynote stage with Steve Jobs, in Tokyo, Japan, to demonstrate the core technology that powers 
 this game.
  
  Best Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was in development for as long as people could remember. It defined the word hype. People 
 were just crazy for it. It almost set a record for longest time in development, if Duke Nukem Forever 
 hadn't taken that cup from it.
  
  The game attempts to recreat the original 1990 experience and it certainly succeeds. The game's 
 cool graphics and creepy sounds make it a awesome gameplay to experience in dark places.
  
  But what the game lacks is variety. In a genre already saturated with FPS games, Doom does offer 
 any inovations. It plays safe, using its old gameplay from 1994. That's not exactly bad, but with 
 games like FarCry and even Thief III, one can wonder why id Software didn't make any inventive 
 features like the one's that made FPSs the way they are today, like they did with Wolf 3d, Doom 
 2 and Quake.
  
  Anyway, the game has pretty scary enemies and even better environments. You'll always be in the 
 dark in Mars, so you'll be carrying a flashlight along with your weapons. The weapons range from 
 the powerful shotgun to the almost useless BFG 9000. All of the old weapons got makeovers, as did 
 the monsters, with new additions in both departments. In the weapons, you'll get a Halo-like machine 
 gun. While with the enemies, along with original bosses, cherubs are an interesting new enemy to 
 be mentioned: they have baby bodies but carry long scythe-like hands. They creep up on you and 
 quickly slash your head off. If your not nimble, you'll suffer a big hit.
  
  Doom 3 is a worthy addition to anyone's game library. It does not offer any new features AND it 
 is quite a system hog, but it's well worth the effort to play it. If you don't own a powerful PC, 
 consider getting the Xbox version that I reviewed.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmace
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is and will always be one of the greatest games of all time. A through and through horror/action 
 game, this game will keep you captivated untill the end. While many may say some things about the 
 levels being the same, there supposed to be. Anyone who remembers the orginal will be pleased that 
 doom 3 stuck to what it was good at and still is. The story does not have as much deph as one would 
 like, but like I said they stay true to form with this follow up. Unbelivable graphics and some 
 of the most intense moments in gaming history this is a definite buy for any hardcore gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Machines Tested On:
  Current System Config
  Intel Pentium 4 at 2.20 ghz
  640 MB of Ram
  ATI Radeon 9250
  (Medium Quality at 640 x 480)
  
  Other Machines Tested On
  Intel Pentium 
 4 at 2.80 ghz
  1.5 GB of Ram
  ATI Radeon X850
  (High Quality at 1024 x 786)
  
  Intel Pentium 4 at 2.20 Ghz
  640 MB of Ram
  Intel Integrated 64mb chip set
  (Low Quality 
 at 640 x 480, all effects turned off)
  
  Doom 3 is your tipical first-person-shooter with a small assortment of guns, a fast pace single 
 player, but rather dull multiplayer (unless you download the open co-op mod) It doesn't drift too 
 far away from the orinigal Doom gameplay, in which your only real objective is to make it to the 
 end of the level. And somewhere along the way you will encounter a door where somthing is need 
 to proceed, in Doom, it was keycards, but in Doom 3, you will need PDA acess, or a key.
  Like all games from the creaters of Id software The graphics for Doom 3 provided a shockingly realistic 
 bloody, gorey, experience. But to really enjoy the game, you should atleast have one of the chipsets 
 supported on the box, or better. Also, I reccomend you turn off the lights, turn up the sound, 
 and step into the game.
  On a final note Doom 3 is definatly worth checking out, it may not be the greatest FPS to date, 
 but it has a lot to offer, and a solid single player experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron-Dragon
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I'm going to cut to the chase here. Once you've gotten used to walking into a room, killing 
 the guys in front of you, turning around and killing the guys who just spawned behind you, you've 
 pretty much played Doom 3. 
  Once you've played F. E. A. R. you know what a scary game is. This is not scary.
  Doom 3 reeks of 
 mediocrity. The guns are nothing new, the shooting is nothing new, the enemies, the AI.... nothing 
 new (*gasps*) . This game is the bipolar personality of revolutionary/innovative. I've played countless 
 FPS on PCs and consoles alike that play just like this one and are much better in many ways.
  
  Graphics: Superb. Probably the best available at the time of it's release. Light effects are 
 very good as well. Unfortunately I was turned off by the way many of the objects are polished in 
 the game. It has that uber annoying shiny plastic look to at times, it's enough to keep me away 
 from PDZ (I hate it that much) .
  
  Sound: Decent overall. A soundtrack mixed just for the game would have added to the presentation 
 and suspense a lot, but the ambient noises do pretty well for themselves not withstanding. Voice 
 acting is nothing special, but there's no noticeably bad acting. The guns on the other hand, sound 
 like crap in my opinion. Most sound very underpowered or just out of context. Maybe it's just me, 
 maybe not.
  
  Value: Simply put, this game has no replay value. It was a struggle to beat as much of the game 
 as I did because of the insane amount of normalcy to it. Like I said above, I've played tons of 
 shooters that are just like this one, so there's really no reason to beat the game more than once 
 or even at all if you ask me. And the multiplayer..... it's a complete joke. Don't even bother.
 
  
  Tilt: I was extremely disappointed in general. Huge hype, huge flop. I would recommend this to 
 no one, not even the biggest of Doom fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  this game was a real surprise for me but a good one. i have a top of the line computer and this 
 game was almost topped it in some places. this game made me not want to go around every corner.
 
  
  the graphics are just gorgeous to say the least. every thing from table to dynamics of every creature 
 were smooth and solid. however i still want a game with even greter thats why there is no ten given.
 
  
  the sound was great and kept you on the edge of your seat and you just wanted to go back to the 
 older dooms so it wasnt as intense.
  
  the gameplay well what can you say it was the same as anyother first person shooter except why 
 can't you put the flashlight on your gun? however the gameplay was solid.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a game that will make you lose your sleep!!
  
  The story begins with a space station on mars. Something goes wrong and they call you to check it 
 out! It is some kind of virus and turns the people into zombies and with mutation!
  
  The gameplay is reliable and you probably won't face any problems! Easy to aim, easy to shoot, easy 
 to reload and all tha stuff!
  
  The sound is a very strong part of the game! If you don't have a good sound system you won't enjoy 
 doom 3! All the juice is in sound part!! It makes you feel creepy sometimes and throw you from your 
 chair! You can hear the zombies crawl their way to you position, you can hear screams and every scary 
 sound that you can imagine and make you scared!
  
  The graphics are awesome! Probably Doom 3 has the best graphics that have ever made for a game! But 
 you want a really strong card to enjoy them! The real-time shadows are extremely detailed and make 
 you feel creepy sometimes! The monsters are very good created and animated which make them even 
 more real!!
  
  Concusion! Doom 3 is a game that every player that likes scary games must have it to his collection 
 and of course if you are a fan of FPS! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feyre
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Every great First Person Shooter has it's bashers, HL2 has them, FEAR has them, and so does Doom 
 3. Unfortunately the best they can come up with is that the game is too dark or that you can't 
 use a flashlight with a weapon. Those people completely fail to understand the game, or are just 
 whimps.
  
  Gameplay: Arguably the worst part of the game. Fights are slow, jumping over gabs is annoying. 
 But thankfully the weapons are as excellent as we've come to expect from ID. AI is weak, but hey, 
 they're zombies and monsters. And afterall, it's a horror game that relies on closet monsters, 
 dark enviroments and a scary atmosphere, it's not supposed to be fast.
  
  Graphic: The game is now two years old and it still looks great, it even looks good on older pcs.
 
  
  Sounds: The sounds are amazing, you can hear what monsters you'll encounter next by their unique 
 sounds, and many sounds will outright scared you, you'll hear moans behind you all of a sudden, 
 the weapon sounds are, in my taste, great and the voice acting is excellent.
  
  Value: The game is long, though the replay value might be a bit low. But I found myself renstalling 
 the game after having it on the shell for so long.
  
  Tilt: The game is scary, no doubt there. Midlevels might drag a bit because of the lenght, but 
 it's all worth it for the hell and cavern levels. Amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wej_accept_it
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 10, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  Doom was one of the single most important games of all time. And depending on who you ask, it was 
 also one of the best games of all time. I'm going to argue that now, first off, Doom merely invented 
 the formula for the FPS, its developer id, should be proud, but they have never done anything to 
 try and redefine the genre and or make it better. Valve's Half Life is what id wishes Doom was, 
 the shooter that had it all and was the king for so many years.
  Now its over ten years since the original Doom, and we have Doom 3, and once again its appearing 
 in competition along side a game from Valve, Half Life 2. HL2 is a lot better then D3, I'll say 
 that now, but don't pas up D3, on that or any of its other failings. Not jusy yet.
  
  I'll say this, grapically, you have never played anything that comes close to D3, (unless you're 
 reading this some time after the games out and there are new titles around) . The game world is 
 incredibly detailed, one room would have taken hours upon hours to design and animate, and the 
 game is huge! The poly-bump mapping is everywhere, along with hi-res textures, extensive lights 
 and shadows, anti-aliasing and brillant animations for everything that moves. You will get lost 
 just staring in to space, provided your PC can run the game. Thankfully this seems to be the case 
 most of the time, like the utterly magnifcant FarCry, D3, runs and looks well on just about any 
 machine that meets and surpasses the minimun specs (provided you tweak around in the video options) . 
 Of course if you've got a PC that cost more then $2000 that you just brought, then don't waste 
 time here, go play D3!
  Of course, graphics aren't everything...
  
  Depending on who you are D3 is either a game with great gameplay that is the perfection of gaming, 
 or its merely enjoyable but could better. And finally you won't even finish the game because you'll 
 be bored half way through.
  D3 is made to be Doom 1, with the ultimate graphics and something vaguely resembling a storyline 
 thrown in.
  To be honest, yes the gameplay is tense, scary, gory and there are several good bits. But there 
 are also lots and lots of bits that are just plain repetative and predictable. If you've played 
 the first few hours of D3 then expect to be able to second where and when enemies are going to 
 pop out, the game does gradually come less and less easy to predict, but no so much that'll feel 
 a sense of dread and panic. Its a sad truth, D3 is not that scary, its not some disturbing horrorific 
 orgy of blood and violence. Its a rather long video game with lots of blood, guts and guns. Some, 
 like fans of the original Doom will see this as the greatest game of all time.
  Others, like Half Life or Hao devotees will turn up there noses in disgust and the few normal people 
 out there will find a middle ground. It is worth playing D3 if your PCis up to, espacially once 
 the game gets to hell, then it gets GREAT! Sadly, you leave hell not long after you arrive.
  The level design is a mxed bag. I expected a corridor crawl and I got one. There are one of two 
 outdoor area but besides that expect to see a lot of grey metal interiours, thankfully these manage 
 to be different and interesting the whole way through. id have successfully made each level noticably 
 different from the last so it never gets too reptative (its still reptative) and at the same time 
 the game maintains the same feel the whole way throuh. Good Job!
  Health and ammo packs seem to pop up in all the right places which is also a good point.
  
 
  Like the visuals, the sound of D3 is excellent. Each weapon is distictive and you'll hear plenty 
 of blood-curdeling screams in the early parts of the game. While monsters will roar will shocking 
 intensity at you. Its a bit strange then that most attackes don't hurt that much, but considering 
 how tough some boses are, thats a good thing.
  The guns are basically everything from Doom 1, first there's a pistol, then a shotgun (shotty goodness) 
 after that a chaingun, etc etc. If there's a complaint its that the shotgun is a little too close 
 range, and has too much of a spread when it fires. A special thanks if any mod team can do something 
 about this.
  
  Overall D3 is a game that appeals to a certain group of people only. Its "old-skool" in everyway 
 possible except the graphics. Even the multiplayer is 4 player max. What the hell is the point 
 of only allowing in 4 people and no bots? In these days of massive Halo online battles and CS its 
 damn near stupid.
  Then there are those who will hate D3 and those who might rent it, me I'd rent it, its not what 
 id thinks it is. This is no way the best shooter of all time, until Half Life 2 rolls around, that 
 honour will sit with FarCry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Another branch in ID's Doom series, Doom 3 follows its predessesors with flying colors.
  The gameplay is like any FPS with your health, stamina, and weapons at hand. There are some items 
 that can be picked up but they are basically pointless.
  The graphics and sound are astounding. The story is like all dooms, basically nothing and the level 
 design is good. But the best part is the atmosphere. This is one game that i cant play for very 
 long without a break because i get really scared playing it in the middle of the night with my 
 headphones cranked up and all the lights off. They really did a commendable job making this game 
 scary.
  So for those out there looking for a good single player FPS (multiplayer is weak, go for Q4 or 
 something) then pick up a copy of Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savvas79
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  Well, the title says It all! It' s probably one of the most terrifying game I' ve ever played or 
 movie I' ve ever seen! Don't try the recipe lights off - headphones loud if you have heart problems 
 or trouble to sleep! I stop playing at least 5-10 minutes every hour to calm down! 
  
  Besides all the above ita a fun game to play but don't expect to play It again and again (at least 
 concerning the single player mode) . We are talking about an action game so if you like to blast 
 demons It' s the game to choose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NEROROKS
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  hey i aint even really started this game, im on like level 4 and its scaryer than any of the resident 
 evil games so far.
  The graphics are lush & if youve got a decent system it runs smoothly.
  The sounds are amazing from the machinery going of all about to the flickering lights it just puts 
 you there.
  i would recommend a dark room with some loud headphones and something to calm you down after about 
 an hour of nasty nasty things making you jump (even when your expecting it) .
  the A. I. really needs some respect as well i was blown away when not tooo far into the game i was 
 called over by a fellow marine who then started opening my back with his shotgun.
  i thought he was going to help me.......
  
  unless barney the big gay mofo shows up i cant 
 see this game getting crap.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeger
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game has so much realism and immersion, I really have to stop playing for a while because 
 it starts to get me tense! WOW, it really looks great, and it is ultra creapy. It is very dark, 
 but is supposed to be and really adds to the creepy factor, but it gets a bit annoying how dark 
 it is. And if its a sunny day, I cant even play it at all because it is so dark I cant see anything 
 at all. I havent seen the movie yet, but I doubt it will be as scary as this game! If you have 
 a weak heart, dont play this. If you have nightmares, dont play this. If you are already stressed 
 out to the max, again, do not play this. If you have a habit that includes rolling your own "cigarettes", 
 dont play this. I can honestly say this game is as intense as watching the exorsist as a 12 year 
 old. Most things dont bother me at all, this is a bit intensed though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grothita
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the long waited sequel to the Doom series and its surprisingly 
  awesome. The monsters are highly deatailed and there are some monsters
  returned from the classic 
 games Such as
  Hell Knight
  Pinky 
  Commando Guy
  Zombie Marine
  
  Allthough the games look amzingly graphical you will need a good graphics card if you have on low 
 and the game is going amazingly slow go to advanced options and turn off Shadows, Special Effects 
 etc. The other good thing about doom 3 as it is amazingly scary the first time I bought Doom 3
 
  I opened the boxset and a note was inside at saying Warning Some of the stuff in this game is 
 frightning and so on and I was like "heh what like a games gonna scare me haha" but when hell was 
 unleashed when I started playing the game I really wish i payed attention to the note in the boxset. The 
 game is pretty dark so you will have to get used to switching your gun to a torch time and time 
 again or if you want you can download some duct tape mods on the internet which allows you to attach 
 a light to your Gun
  
  Now onto the Multiplayer section.
  Multiplayer on doom 3 is great but it could have been better. There are games such as Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch, Co-op 
 and CTF
  
  Team Deathmatch: A game of killing the oppisite team players
  Deathmatch: A random Game of killing
  Co-operative: Playing with a buddy/player against the doom 
 3 gameplay and levels.
  
  Well thats the review readers I hope you all have a good scary monster blasting time in Doom 3
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  The graphics are truely amazing. They are the fact i decided to write these reviews. With the light 
 and stuff this game is just amazing to see with your eyes on full setting cause this is a rig tester 
 or rather wa. The game can get boring real fast casue of the repetitve gameplay. The gameplay is 
 basically Doom 1 with a 300x better graphics engine the reason why i dont think id improve is cause 
 they are like IBM in the 80 with mircrosoft and will probably be the downfall its not the graphics 
 but is the gameplay i think that companies like nintendo that adapt to that wil survive while MS 
 and Sony wil struggle like mr. darwin say it is not the most fit that survive but teh one that evolves 
 and adapts to fit the situation to survive while this was more of a rant than a review this games 
 is still worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  No comment its just so perfect it has powerful graphic engine and the sound its rock .
  From the most FPS darkest games ever its doom 3 when you are facing the evil forces and you must 
 kill them all but its need more open word or more power for the physic engine to be the most powerful 
 game ever its realy worth to buy if your age is over 18 if you are buy it no dont confuse about 
 buying it but dont try to play it alone or with dark room beacuse it will kill you ! 
  My Last Word Is : the legend repeat it self . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderborn
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This installment of the Doom series makes some substantial attempts to move away from it's arcade-like 
 predecessors and actually attempts to flesh out a real world.
  
  The beginning of the game involves a few minutes of walking around on Mars City. You can see scientists 
 and technicians hard work, hear side conversations, check out a few information kiosks, and explore 
 an actual world. This is a bold if somewhat dissappointing move away from the simple demon blasting 
 and the surreal, gorgeous settings of previous games. The game also involves a PDA which can contain 
 email, videos, and audio logs. One finds the PDA's of personnel at mars city and they download 
 to your own, allowing you see everything on their device. While the writing and voice acting on 
 these is good, the only reason to bother reading anything is looking for 3 digit codes to storage 
 lockers around that contain ammo, armor, weapons, and health.
  
  While this certainly adds credit to the games attempt at immersion in a real
  world, it's highly 
 oversimplified. That no delicate PDA's were scratched
  despite the gunfire, fireball-throwing demons, and metal falling everywhere is a bit too convenient. 
 Furthermore, despite the technology to colonize mars,
  produce plasma based weopons, one of which fires an actual computer chip that target enemies and 
 not friends, your marine has a flashlight. This is not just any flashlight, but a weak flashlight 
 with unlimited energy. Your weapons do not come with lights on them, a luxury that law enforcement 
 and military personnel have been enjoying for years in our present day, nor is your marine competent 
 enough to hold a flashlight and a light pistol at the same time, a technique that law enforcement 
 and military personnel have mastered for decades. 
  
  Despite how comically preposterous this is, the need to sort through the
  ever-present darkness 
 with a crumby flashlight and then frantically switch to a weapon provides a lot to the atmosphere. 
 One can only imagine what neat things might have been done with night vision technology, and the 
 potential for making the games lusciously crafted demons look even creepier while utilizing that 
 technology.
  
  This, of course, leads us to the game's creatures, for which the game receives outstanding marks. 
 The creatures are richly designed and move wonderfully, giving a weight and believability that 
 makes this game truly great. There are a wonderful variety of them, too. All the way from the simple, 
 but well done zombies, agile, fire-throwing imps, to insectile human infant things that have an 
 ambient child-like laughter and then screeching, insectile cries in combat to human heads with 
 spider legs that come after you from nooks and crannies. Sadly, the overwhelming majority of the 
 time one is faced with imps. Hoards and hoards of imps. Imps everywhere. While they are well done, 
 one is dissappointed that the more artful and disturbing creatures are so rare.
  
  No FPS game is truly good without good weapons, here Doom 3 does well, but the one-dimensional 
 nature of the weapon system is a bit stale. There is a pistol, shotgun, machine gun, plasma rifle, 
 chaingun, grenades, rocket launcher, BFG, and chainsaw. Sadly, the machine gun, plasma rifle, and 
 chain gun are all basically varying power-level of the same thing: rapid fire weapons. Doom 3 is 
 in sore need of a some kind of distance rifle with a scope that might add a stealthier distance 
 fighting element to the game, also, the scope would allow one to get a good look at baddies, which 
 almost never happens. It's a shame not to be able to get a close, imtimate look at such beautifully 
 done creatures. The grenades and the chainsaw largely go unused with the exception of a few creatures, 
 and given that creatures typically spawn right on top of you, grenades are suicide if not cautiously 
 used in the game. All of this said, the weapons that you do have a very well done, with realistic, 
 satisfying sounds. The only real strategy that comes in using the weapons is the fact that ammo 
 is limited. One finds oneself most often using the first 3 weapons one gets simply because of limited 
 ammo. This does add a good element of challenge to the game, requiring the need to make each shot 
 count
  
  The environments are like futuristic catacombs: dark, metallic, misty, low,
  glowing ember-like lights. While this is a substantial change from many of the otherworldy, wide 
 open lanscapes of the game's predecessors, they are never the less very well done. They leave the 
 player with a deep feeling of suspense through most of the game, knowing that horrible baddies 
 can crawl out from underneath rubble and out from little nooks and corners at any time.
  
  Doom 3 stretches out with substantial length of game time, and the action is paced appropriately 
 to provide both suspense and mayhem. Despite the slight shortcomings in the attempt at world immersion, 
 some of the simply silly incongruence points in technology and equipment, and the initial trouble 
 one might have with the fundamental differences in gameplay between Doom 3 and it's predecessors, 
 the game is very well done overall and it's a definite must have for any fan of either horror or 
 action games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf2expert
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is the darkest and greatest horror shooter i've ever played. The gameplay is so so so 
 so so so fun you dont want to leave the computer. Although there are sometimes when the game gets 
 a little easy to predict. The action in this game is great in some parts you will be in narrow 
 corridors and other parts large open mars surface. This game would be a whole lot better if the 
 incorperated vehicles. Sometimes you get PDA's or a lot of the time and to progress through the 
 level you need to read or watch them (videos) , that part of it gets you away from the game a bit 
 i mean the killing. All and all this is a very exciting, edge of your seat kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  I've been thinking of how to start this review for a while now... in-between work, women and having 
 a life, I thought of a bunch of intros for my Doom 3 review and I came to the conclusion that it's 
 best to document how this game actually came to be; trust me, it's more meaningful to this review 
 than you'd think.
  
  In 1991 a small Texas based company named iD unveiled a whole new genre, the First Person Shooter 
 (FPS) . The game that introduced the world to this new perspective was Wolfenstein 3D (Wolf3D for 
 short) . The game didn't exactly have a booming success, but it's spiritual successor did. In 1993 
 iD unleashed what is possibly the most influential game of all time: Doom. Doom had it all: Great 
 levels, lots of weapons, tons of monsters, an actual story (although it was a bunch of mombo-jombo 
 no one really read) , etc. After Doom, iD released a "quickie-sequel", Doom 2, which offered little 
 in the way of improvements but that ensured that iD's place in gaming history was permanently cemented. 
 From 1991 to 1998 iD absolutely DOMINATED the industry. It's games sold millions, they were more 
 controversial than GTA, and they were damn good.
  
  However, in 1998 iD was introduced to a much-hated concept in this line of work: "competition". 
 With the Unreal and Half-Life series, everything that was iD games (and FPS games up to that point, 
 pretty much) was blown out of the water. Suddenly, the emphasis was on realism, story and some 
 other crap that has nothing to do with action games and movies. So, in 1999, iD started work on 
 Doom 3 (which was announced in 2000) as an effort to get back in the market... I think. Now, after 
 5 years of development, Doom 3 is out and iD is back to take it's place on the FPS stage ... or 
 are they? In all honesty, Carmack needs to take a break and go outside and look at the world: This 
 is not 1993 anymore, and while Doom 3 is gonna sell by the millions (as will it's engine) this 
 game has very limited long time appeal to people now-a-days.
  
  Doom 3 attempts to combine the Doom-esque,  with Half-Life-esque, 
  and while it succeeds quite admirably, it can't ever hide the 
 fact that it's a hybrid.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  I don't need to even say anything about this category, except: Doom 3 is the best looking game 
 ever created, for any publicly available platform.
  
  This game looks like a dream. Every single texture is near-CG quality and every single element 
 in the game is the exact same detail and resolution. The best example of this is the blood which 
 splatters all over walls, floors and windows when you kill the demons in the game... the blood 
 splattered by any of the games creatures looks identical to the one smeared by the level designers 
 all over the walls, windows or floors of the facility. It's truly a site to behold.
  
  Not to say that the texture quality, facial expressions, and overall quality of the creatures in 
 this game is bad. No, no, no, its plain simply mind-boggling. On numerous occasions, while playing 
 this game, I had people enter the room and ask me "What did you see in that CG cut scene just now?. 
 Yes, the models and levels are that close to CG quality. Full facial animations, multiple layers 
 of clothes, individual muscles, pixel-by-pixel damage grid, and more stuff I don't even know about.
 
  
  Other effects in the game are just as well represented. Glare and fire effects use DX9.0c at it's 
 fullest and they look absolutely stunning. The window-effects are also absolutely breath taking. 
 Looking thorough a window you can actually feel the transparency of the whole thing. The lighting 
 is essential to this game and it also is impeccable; in fact, I'm nearly certain that the lighting 
 in Doom 3 beats every other single graphical component by quite a large margin.
  
  The game also has a basic physics and rag-doll engine built in. The physics engine is nothing like 
 Half-Life 2's, mind you, but it does its job admirably well. Rag-doll effects are very well implemented 
 and help this already great looking game feel even more realistic.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Next to the graphics, the sound is the other big jewel in Doom 3's crown.
  
  Doom 3 is among 
 the first games to make full use of 5.1 surround sound. If you hear something coming from behind 
 you, or something screaming at you from your right side, you can be sure thats where those things 
 are coming from. This is obviously hard to imagine, but it really enhances the in game experience 
 a great deal and provides a very spooky and "realistic" atmosphere.
  
  The voice acting in the game is top notch. This is, by far, the best voice acting in any FPS and 
 it's among THE best in ANY game EVER. Dialogue and audio logs have a real depth to them. Demon 
 and human screams also are spot on and help convey the game's atmosphere even better then you'd 
 imagine is possible in such a game. Ambient sounds, such as footsteps, weapon sounds, or "other" 
 such sounds are equally impressive... as is to be expected.
  
  Doom 3 is almost entirely devoid of music. Other than the main menu, there are less then 5 instances 
 when the game actually plays background music. Some players will be disappointed by this, but I 
 thought this was an amazing touch... it's really just a very realistic and cinematic experience. 
 I'm certain that while your killing monsters on Mars music isnt blasting from speakers all around 
 you so, while some will notice the absence, the lack of music more then benefits this game, it 
 helps convey a more "realistic" world and a greater sense of desperation.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  It's hard to imagine what iD was going for when they actually made this game. 
 As you will read in the next few paragraphs, Doom 3 is quite the hybrid. It combines the relative 
 realism of having to reload your weapons, with the relatively dumb AI of arcade shooters, and the 
 classic weapons of the days of yesteryear. It's a nice combination, but it just doesn't suit everyone.
 
  
  In Doom 3 you play as a marine that has just been deployed to help with security on a Martian facility 
 owned by a mega-corporation named UAC. As you land you find out that a scientist has gone missing 
 and your job to go find him. You'll also acquire a handy-dandy PDA and you'll be given a gun to 
 help you with things that shouldn't be problem on Mars. Oh, and you get a forever-ominous flashlight. 
 As soon as you find the scientist in question, all hell breaks loose, and as you'd expect, from 
 this point on you shoot everything that moves.
  
  Quite frankly, I don't even wanna talk about the story in this game because it's absurd to do so. 
 I don't know when everyone became so infatuated with story lines in FPS games, but it's totally 
 ridiculous. Imagine that youre going out to see Kill Bill for the story... let's get realistic 
 here. But, as I said, since the story became such an integral part of gameplay in a FPS in the 
 past 6 years, I'll address that first. Before I even get into the story, it's important to note 
 that Doom 3 is not a remake, it's more of a retelling of the Doom story. It's important that I 
 mention this because that will answer some other questions later on; but moving on... The story 
 in Doom 3 is not bad, but it's pushed in the background WAY too much for anyone to care about it. 
 The story itself unfolds mostly through audio logs recorded by crew members and by certain emails 
 (although, the latter is rarer then the first) . Doom 3's story has no real twists that you wouldn't 
 expect from this kind of game, but it does offer some interesting background information on what 
 your fighting, why your fighting and what your fighting these things with. After all is said and 
 done maybe there should have been a little more background info, but it's not like any one in his 
 right mind would hold the story against this type of game or would they?
  
  Now... since Doom 3 features your average FPS character, a mute, nameless individual, the producers 
 concentrated a great deal of their effort in the story department on making other characters in 
 Doom 3 deep and "life-like". I really don't know at what point did that mean that the game should 
 be realistic because it features 4 main characters instead of one gorilla that goes thorough and 
 wipes everything out (i. e. a Marine) , but at some point, people started questing and levying idiotic, 
 upon idiotic argument against Doom 3's realism and story. One professional publication was wondering 
 why your marine doesn't just get infected and transformed into a zombie, while dozens of others 
 wondered why don't you have night vision (more of that in the next paragraphs) , and others complained 
 that using your PDA to listen to the story is stupid because it takes you out of the action. 
 These comments are absurd. No one is forcing anyone to give a damn about the story, and questioning 
 why your Marine doesn't get infected and just turn into a zombie is like wondering why Links flesh 
 doesn't burn and disintegrate in the most gruesome manner when he falls into a pool of lava.
  
  Atmosphere is, perhaps, the biggest ace in Doom 3's deck... or, at least, that's what John 
 Carmack would want you to believe. Doom 3 is pretty atmospheric and it manages to build some real 
 tension, but iD could have done a bit more here. There are a few very disturbing sequences and, 
 if your in the most proper of conditions (alone, in the dark) , the game is quite scary, but it's 
 never anywhere near as scary or as disturbing as the first two. Perhaps the mountains of bodies 
 that piled up in the first 2 Doom games had something to do with it? Yes, yes folks, iD didn't 
 allow the bodies to litter the floors here. On the other hand, the masochists who want the bodies 
 on the floors can already download a mod that fixes this problem; I never did so. I should also 
 mention that this game does leave you with some afterthoughts after playing it for long periods 
 of time. I found myself thinking about some of the events in the game a few hours after I got done 
 playing. To be truthful, this is no where near the amount of afterthoughts, that bordered on obsession, 
 that I had with the originals, but it's important, for this sort of game, to know that it'll keep 
 you thinking about it for a short while.
  
  However, the biggest reason why I brought atmosphere up was to discuss two of the biggest complaints 
 with Doom 3: Level design and the flashlight.
  
  At some point in Doom 3's development iD saw the need to make it impossible for you to hold a gun 
 and flashlight at the same time. I don't exactly know why, but it might have something to do with 
 the Xbox-exclusive co-op mod that iD wanted to put in the game. Whatever the reasoning behind this 
 was people obviously didn't like it much... a few hours after the release of the game the whole 
 thing was being blown out of proportions; it's no where near as damaging to the gameplay as some 
 people may want you to believe. However, much like the idiotic story questioning, people felt the 
 need to question this too, so topics like this popped up across the boards: "Liek omg, why the 
 hel cnat u hold teh flahslight & gun at teh same time", "Why isn't there night vision in this game?", 
 "Why doesnt he just search for duct tape?". I feel like I cannot write a complete review if I 
 don't answer these questions directly:
  
  A. It's a game, it's not suppose to be realistic.
  B. I donnou about you people, but I don't 
 think my first train of thought after I just found out Hell exists would be to search for duct 
 tape so I can tape my flash light to my gun, then take of the tape from one gun, and move it to 
 another when that gun is out of bullets, etc.
  
  I think you get the point. Even so, the thing is, there are just too few levels where you'll need 
 to use the flashlight constantly. In fact, by the end, I found myself wishing that iD would have 
 done more with flashlight. And, suppose, you really can't see where your going and absolutely must 
 use this device you don't have to worry about it much since the enemies are so predictable having 
 your flashlight out instead of your shotgun. And, to boot, since monsters constantly teleport in 
 rooms and illuminate them, you'll have ample time to aim and kill just about everything that comes 
 your way. In fact, in all honesty, the reason behind using the flashlight, 90% of the time was 
 because I wanted to or because I needed to search empty rooms for supplies, not because the game 
 actually forced me too. So all those people who endlessly complain about what a horrible decision 
 this was, need to stop. It's really not that bad.
  
  If the flashlight isn't bad enough unfortunately, for most of the population, the levels are. Personally, 
 I never found the levels to be as irritating as some people seem to think, but they truly seem 
 to be are monotonous. 90% of the game is composed of industrial-types of tilesets and it can get 
 really monotonous. However, I must give kudos to the person (s) who actually MADE the levels, because 
 I never thought it possible to find so many unique ways to arrange industrial environments in a 
 game. The detail in the levels is amazing, no ONE room looks the same... but that doesn't mean 
 the design is top-notch, or that seeing the same type of tileset doesn't get monotonous (yes, yes, 
 I know Ive used the word monotonous 4 times) . See, at another point in this games development 
 iD thought that the Martian base should not have ANY gigantic or even big rooms. This too, of course, 
 has to do with the fact that this isn't a remake, but a retelling, as such, iD found it in their 
 heart to rid the game of all large and clear rooms that were present in the first 2 games. You'll 
 be going from corridor, to corridor, to corridor in a tileset you've already seen about a billion 
 times, but hey, at least it's a damn pretty tileset.
  
  In the monster and weapons department, Doom 3 couldve fared a lot better for being a Doom game. 
 Monsters are all really detailed, and some other stuff like that, but they're not really that smart. 
 Now, it's important to understand that these creatures aren't suppose to be smart because you'll 
 be fighting anywhere from 3 to 12 of the at the same time (although the magic number is 5-6) ; however, 
 due to the hybridism of Doom 3, the monsters aren't complete Serious-Sam-like idiots. Most of the 
 charge blindly at you, but the fact that some of the monsters will dodge bullets and some will 
 hide behind crates (and exploding barrels, obviously) does show that they're a step above the general 
 mantra of idiotic monsters, but not quite up there with Halo's beasts whom you spend hours fighting. 
 I should also mention that, due in part to the hybridism of Doom 3 and the games demanding engine, 
 youll NEVER fight endless throngs like the kinds you fought in Doom and Doom 2. Not only would 
 these hordes not fit in the corridors, but also, your video card would probably explode if it had 
 to render that many monsters.
  
  Although the monsters aren't too bright, and there aren't too many of them, I should mention that 
 the game is not easy. Yet again, at yet another point in the development of this game, iD decided 
 to make just about every monster encounter scripted. But that's not all, they also decided to make 
 sure that monsters are able to attack you from behind with no need for a reasonable explanation 
 as to why. In effect, this means that monsters will be able to teleport behind you whenever THEY 
 WANT. Combine that with the: I've-been-hit-and-can't-shoot screen and if you find yourself surrounded 
 by 4 or 5 monsters, you may find yourself dead pretty fast. Even on the middle difficulty monsters 
 can do a great deal of damage. Your regular pinky demon can take off as many as 15 health and armor 
 points per hit... not to mention that just about every monster in this game hits/fires like an 
 automatic machine gun, this guys dont hold stop for a single second unless you run away or dispose 
 of them; combine all of this with the games small levels that leave nearly nothing in the way 
 of maneuverability and you have quite a challenge ahead of you.
  
  As for the actual monster designs, about 60% of them are from previous Doom games... but a great 
 deal of monsters have been redesigned to keep in theme with the game (i. e. this is a retelling, 
 not a remake) . There are quite a few wholly new monsters in the game and they are pretty impressive. 
 As a whole though, the monsters are amazingly well designed and they are suitably scary and disturbing.
 
  
  Other then the machine gun, the grenade and a special item, all the weapons in Doom 3 are taken 
 from the original Doom. This, obviously, didn't sit well with too many players, but this didn't 
 really bother me as much as the actual weapon balancing in the game. After playing the game through 
 and through, I came to the conclusion that some weapons are completely unbalanced. The game tries 
 to change that by forcing you to use the newer weapons you find in certain levels, but by the end 
 of the game you'll end up having some weapons that you've never used more then twice. Also due 
 to the cramped level design, explosive weaponry is severely unbalanced... especially when it comes 
 to grenades. Grenades in Doom 3 are schizophrenic. Sometimes they'll explode on impact, while at 
 other times they'll bounce around and explode after a few seconds. In an effort to avoid you getting 
 instantly killed by your grenade, the people at iD severely reduced the damage you receive from 
 grenade blasts after you sent the grenade flying... but that doesn't mean that if the grenade explodes 
 in your hand you'll be spared. No, in fact, if the grenade does blow up in your hand (or face) 
 you'll suffer some 200 points of damage, sending you into the negative 80s. Luckily, I think, due 
 to the games forced weapon balancing you'll become quite well tuned to using grenades by the end 
 of the game because you'll need to do anything in your power to conserve ammo, even if that means 
 having a grenade blow up in your face. As you'd expect, monsters suck at dodging nades, so if you 
 unleash a grenade in a corridor, it will pretty much clear it instantly.
  
  Finally, let's talk about your PDA. The PDA is the equivalent of your HUD from the original. It 
 stores emails and audio messages, which can unravel a bit of the story and which also provide codes 
 to different lockers and doors, it also stores your mission objectives, several videos about different 
 subjects, and lots of fake spam. The PDA is the all-in-one universal key of Doom 3. In order to 
 gain access to different areas of the game you go around downloading the security clearances of 
 different individuals in your PDA and you use that to open doors. The only reason why this deserves 
 mention is because it shows how much of a hybrid this game is. People who expect to walk over a 
 key and then just use that to open doors will be surprised to see this instrument in game. More 
 so, in a not-so-typical fashion there are actual brainy parts to some of the secret puzzles in 
 this game. Those puzzles can get you weapons WAAAY ahead of their time and can unlock extra supplies 
 and ammo throughout the game.
  
  At this point, some of you may have noticed that I didn't really berate Doom 3 too much; so then 
 why did I give the gameplay an 8? The answer is simple: Doom 3 is the PERFECT example of a game 
 with "solid" gameplay. There is nothing here to make you scream out loud of joy (like some of the 
 levels in HL or CoD) . The game can get a bit monotonous at times although, for the most part, fighting 
 is enjoyable and exhilarating.
  
  Perhaps the biggest reason why I gave this category an 8 is because this game tries to combine 
 two different types of FPS games and it just doesn't do it right. In Doom 3 your marine has such 
 realistic FPS staples as a stamina bar, weapons that need to be reloaded, puzzles that require 
 back tracking and the use of at least a small part of your brain, but on the other hand it also 
 has brain dead AI, monsters that attack you in droves, standard weapons and other staples of arcade 
 shooters. And, to tie it all together, there is an alarming amount of survival-horror elements, 
 which glue all of this together (lack of ammo, ammo crates) . This is the kind of gameplay that 
 is a Jack of all traits, master of none, and it just cannot please everyone.
  
  Multiplayer: 6/10
  
  Ouch, for a game that invented deathmatching Doom 3s multiplayer sure 
 falls short... real short.
  
  Officially, Doom 3 comes with 4 types of deathmatch and a maximum of 4 players per game. Obviously 
 mods are already available that bump up the maximum limit of players to a whooping 32 and that 
 add the much wanted Co-Op mode to the mix, but this really doesn't change the fact that this game 
 doesn't really have much to offer for mutiplayer gamers.
  
  Deathmatching, if you can find a latency free server, is fun but it's deathmatching... it's not 
 1993 iD, that's just not that entertaining anymore.
  
  To add insult to injury, every single level in Doom 3's online multiplayer game is copied and pasted 
 from the single player with minimal modifications; if you read the weapons section, you can understand 
 how that's a problem. Rocket launchers and nades are damn near useless and the simple lack of variety 
 in weapons kills the game fast.
  
  You aren't buying this game for it's multipayer... at least not yet.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
 
  Doom 3 fell short of the hype and iD didn't quite deliver in such a spectacular way, but that 
 doesn't make Doom 3 a bad game by any means.
  
  What really saves Doom 3 however, is the fact that its Doom damn it! You fight the old monsters, 
 you use the old weapons, the game is scary and relatively disturbing, and even the mute characters 
 and the frightening monsters are teaming with personality and a coolness factor thats unmistakably 
 Doom.
  
  Doom 3 wont do much for the industry and some fans will come out disappointed, but if your looking 
 for a scary game, with exhilarating combat, that builds up suspense very well, then this is the 
 game for you.
  
  Its just too bad that this game wont ever be evaluated as what it is because it plain simply 
 doesnt meet the hype that was associated with it. Heres to a sequel iD!
  
  PS: Time for the obligatory system specs. rundown. I played Doom 3 with absolutely no problems 
 on the following configuration at High detail and 1024x768. Trust me when I say this, the whole 
 upgrade frenzy was just a way for Carmack to collect some fat royalties from Nvidia, Doom 3 is 
 no where near as big of a system hog as its made out to be:
  
  AMD 2600+ XP
  1 Gig of DDR RAM
  Radeon 9600XT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Doom continues, another major hit in the gaming industry. Once they made a revolution in the conventional 
 gaming method. Now its back this time it was all about the graphics. When the game was actually 
 release there wasn't a single graphic card which could actually support the graphics engine of 
 the game as far as i know. People started talking about DooM once again. This major hit lead a 
 director to release the movie of this game in the same year. Its a long game and it takes a lot 
 to finish this off, just like the old versions of this. Graphic details are remarkable and famous 
 benchmarker like tomshardware. com started to benchmark graphic cards using this game. This game 
 can scare anyone who plays this, lights and the environment were designed superbly. Man what can 
 i say, I felt as I was living in another world, I lived in it, I love this game. Any one who loves 
 to play first person shooting games have to play this. This is one of my all time favorites, I 
 highly recommand this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemkeer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best grahpics and the best resolution Ive ever seen in a PC game and its spooky 
 shadows and state of the art sounds quallity could rattel any ones body into submistion. 
  
  The levels of this game are the best and the creatures and bosses couldn't be better if they 
 tried . The one thing I do suggest for this game if your going to buy this game which I do encorege, 
 you should probably up grade your memory for this game becuase it's almost imposible to play this 
 game at high speed with out at leats a gig of memory. Ive played it with a stick of 512 but it 
 lags some what but still play able. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titomag
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Alot of us Doom fans were waiting for another Doom release, and here it is. Not much how we wanted 
 it to be tho. What's to be expected in this game? well mostly the graphics, ID really did a great 
 job with the graphics engine, and the dark and scary levels are worth your time if you like being 
 scared and impressed by the visual quality of your surroundings (being the game to benchmark graphic 
 cards for OpenGL performance) . Sadly thats what this game mostly stands for, the action aint much 
 like the older Doom games, and it gets repetetive. I really got tired of being in the same levels, 
 its all metal and claustrophobic like, the levels feel the same over and over again (best level 
 is when you fight in hell) The enemies are scary and fierce, most of them will spawn behind you, 
 most of the time you wont notice when they are around wich adds more to the fear factor in the 
 game. The weapons are the usual, the same old weapons from the old Doom games..... only that you 
 wont be able to use the double barrel shotgun. There isn't much to talk about when it comes to gameplay, 
 all you do is run around and shoot demons, no puzzles or getting lost like other Doom games. The 
 sounds is good, it sure is scary at moments. the muliplayer isn't any good, the good thing that 
 it has the Punk Buster program (anti-cheating) to me... MP for this game is lame, i only played 
 MP twice and never did play it again. Like i said, the maps have that claustrophobic feel, wich 
 is bad for MP since everyone is throwing grenades everywere. Overall the game isn't bad... its really 
 good, but it needed more for the old Doom fans.
  
  Graphics:
  
  + Impressive Graphics and high quality effects, great for benchmarking..
  + Probably THE best 
 graphics ever seen on in its release
  +/-has the advantage to play even on lower end graphic cards, sorroundings become repetetive.
 
  - most ofthe characters are all look the same .
  
  Sound:
  
  + sound quality is clear and creepy.
  +/- not much music in the game but it's a good idea since 
 the ambience sounds will creep you out .
  -some weapons sounds are crappy, shotgun and pistol dont sound right
  
  Game Play:
  
  - 
 Will get boring fast, not much to play over again once you had beat it.
  +/- MP isn't as good as it should have been, has support for the mod comunity... even tho most of 
 the custom made mods are junk.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  -not much to do with this games once you beat it, you can only unlock the nightmare difficulty 
 wich is not even fun play.
  + MP has plenty of servers and to this day people still playing this game over MP
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thiesm
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  The graphics and the sound are both awesome. The only thing I found annoying was the fact that 
 the only way you get to see in the dark is with a flashlight that you cannot even attach to a gun. 
 And so much of the game takes place in dark spaces that you really wish marines a couple hundred 
 years from now could have some dark-vision goggles.
  
  I found that in a couple of places they managed to get me jumping, from the way the setup the atmosphere 
 combined with music and ambushes. But after a couple times you get to expect them.
  
  Overall really fun game, still working on finishing it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabidkitty7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 26, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Well I was pretty sceptical about Doom 3 at first. I watched the movie, which got my attention 
 right off the bat. I have never been big on first person shooter games and actually quite detest 
 them. My hubby suggested I purchase Doom 3 and try it out. If I didn't like it he would keep it 
 anyways. Well this is THE first game to ever scare me so bad that I'd have to stop and take little 
 breaks in between playing. I think the storyline and the graphics on top of the sounds and music 
 are what got me going. I actually felt like I was part of the game. I plan on recommending Doom 
 3 to all of my friends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is ID's game to show off their newest game engine. That's basically what it is. The game 
 has solid game play and no doubt fantastic graphics, with unbelievable lighting. That is really 
 where the game stands out with the new dynamic lighting engine incorporated into Doom 3, shadows 
 cast of you and your enemies in real time. This also applies when you use your flashlight and is 
 a really cool effect. After the WOW effect wears off and the first set of levels are done the game 
 gets quite repetitive. There is really no difficulty to speak off here even after you beat the 
 game and unlock Nightmare mode it is about the same and no real reason to play after you beat it. 
 
  
  The muliplayer is very out dated and can only support 16 players per server.
  You play typical deathmatch of capture the flag, all which play just fine and if you have a good 
 connection you should have no lag too speak of.
  
  Doom 3 is a solid game and is fairly fulfilling experience. If you are a Doom or ID fan, or just 
 a FPS fan in general then you should buy this especially that it is now a discount game. After 
 you beat it you will mainly go back frequently for bench marks and that's about it. A good game 
 but I expected more from John and Adrien Carmack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: max-hit
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  doom 3 have a best graphics in all game and it was the very good game
  but doom 3 have not a good story .
  
  this is a game for boys because it is a fear game.
 
  this is a game for boys because it is a fear game
  this is a game for boys because it is a fear game
  this is a game for boys because it is a fear 
 game
  this is a game for boys because it is a fear game
  this is a game for boys because it is a fear game
  this is a game for boys because it is a fear 
 game
  this is a game for boys because it is a fear game
  ..............
  hit
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devildweller98
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Now it Doom. But is it as good as you think. I say yeah its good, but nothing brilliant. Who would 
 have known that the original doom that was released in 1993 by id software. Made by just 10 employees, 
 that has now become one of the most well known pc game of all time. The Graphics are great in Doom 
 3. With a good story, nice gameplay. But its not just the graphics, story or even gameplay that 
 i think makes this game great. It the sound. The sound is so scary. The hairs on the back of you 
 neck want no what to do. Nice model of the monsters. And nice animation. I think the only think 
 that lets the game down is the flashlight. One even with the flashlight on you still cant really 
 see that much. And two what cant you use a flashlight and a gun at the same time. Every 5mins your 
 switching to the flashlight and then a gun. That suck. I dont no why they done that. But other 
 then that the game is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertoleyva
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Doom is a very vary good game, one of those games people like me played some years ago, you just 
 had to shoot and shoot and try to avoid the bullets and just keep the finger in the trigger.... spending 
 a lot of ammo.... because thats the soul of those games and thats the soul of this game... spend 
 your time in killing all these demon beasts. The graphics are the best of this game, for miles.... 
 the gameplay could be better but i guess all of us are enough happy with this.. i am. well, sorry 
 but i have to go, i have to kill some demons : Doom is waiting for me.. for my soul 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girik9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS:
  
  The Graphics are still simply amazing, with great shadowing.
  Sound is ambient and excellent. 
  Great portrayal of a creepy atmosphere.
  Single-Player is 
 immersive and a lot of fun. 
  Wide range of weapons.
  You can operate in-game machinery (such as computers)
  PDA is very innovative.
  
  THE BAD 
 POINTS:
  
  Can get a bit repetitive towards the end. 
  Multiplayer is not really that good. 
  Same environment (corridors) .
  No outdoor environments 
 at all. 
  AI could be a bit better.
  
  OVERALL:
  This is a must have for any FPS fans. The experience is terrific and is well worth your time. The 
 graphics help immerse you into the game. 
  Doom 3 is a must buy for Doom fans, and well recommended for anyone else. However, the game may 
 not last you that long, as the multiplayer leave a lot to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drillbitz03
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  The much anticipated release of id Software's Doom 3 was well worth it. It was heavily hyped for 
 its immersive graphics and sound quality. Doom 3 came through on these accounts to spades. To call 
 the Doom 3 environment 'visually stimulating' would be both under exaggerating and insulting. Every 
 one of its game designers seemed to have been utterly focused on coming up with the best game, 
 graphics-wise, of the year (possibly in history) . Characters, villains, monsters and heroes are 
 crafted in exquisite detail, with every fine point carefully constructed. The environment once 
 the game actually begins is, at first foreshadowing, and then dark and brooding, and then downright 
 frightening.
  Like most FPS games, the controls are fairly simplified. You have weapons, point and click to shoot 
 the evil-doers. One of the problems I have with the game is the marine's apparent inability to 
 wield both a weapon and a flashlight at once. He DOES have two hands, right? This puts you in some 
 pretty precarious situations especially when the lights go out and you have to decide between being 
 able to see your enemy and being able to shoot your enemy.
  To tell the honest truth, the game had me jumping at shadows all the time. Entering a fully lighted 
 corridor is nothing. But try and enter that same corridor when there is almost pitch-black lighting 
 (with some random sparks of electricity for effect) but just enough light to see the blood smears 
 on the wall and the gruesome body parts that seem to appear and fall from out of nowhere. Mars 
 station is to become a coffin for you if you aren't on your toes and keep your wits about you.
 
  The graphics are one thing, but the sound quality is what truly gives this game its horror motif. 
 Every level has an underlying theme of devastation... a Martian station that is being torn apart 
 right underneath you. You hear thumps through the wall, then the radio kicks in with someone being 
 attacked. You hear monstrous screams. Then you hear them eating and you hope to god that you aren't 
 dessert. The sound is designed to instill fear. You are all alone on a planet overrun by hellish 
 monsters and there is nothing you can do about it except fight your way off.
  The gameplay, however, is another story. Rather than attempt to make it as intricate as the graphics 
 and sound, id Software made the game incredibly simple: Get out of there, now! No frilly quests 
 or puzzles to solve, just gritty FPS action. In doing so, id turned this game into more of an updating 
 of the original Doom game. The area lengths are decent-sized and provide sufficient roadblocks 
 to prevent them from being considered too linear. Instead of simply passing through a series of 
 doors to find the exit (as was the case in Doom, Wolfenstein, and many other FPS shooters of its 
 kind during that era) , Doom 3 incorporates the requirement of improvisation. You must often find 
 other ways to reach your goal. These ways are often long and circuitous, not to mention dangerous, 
 involving facing many more monsters than you would like to. The combat system is, likewise, simple. 
 it's point and shoot, and you have a number of weapons to choose from from fists and chainsaws 
 (close-range) , to pistols and shotguns, on up to the infamous BFG. Some enemies are more vulnerable 
 to certain weapons than others. You can even use your flashlight as a weapon, though it serves 
 a much greater purpose as a tool to navigate to near-pitch black corridors and rooms.
  The game is not without its idiosyncrasies, however. There are certain elements and themes that 
 seem either out of place, or mistaken in some way. For example, in many cutscenes, a monster may 
 sneak up behind your hero while he is talking to another character and the monster will go after 
 the other character. Even though you are completely helpless in that scene, you survive. This makes 
 no sense. Another problem revolves around the Mars station's many robotic sentry drones. With enough 
 firepower to tear through the hellish hordes faster than you can, why is there still need of human 
 security? The drones could have easily handled matters on their own by simply fanning out through 
 the base, eliminating threats as they went.
  These problems largely fall by the wayside as I was completely astonished by the game's presentation. 
 If there was a reason to enjoy getting your pants scared off, this would be it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow........ When I started to play this game, I knew it was gonna be creepy...... And it does'nt dissapoint!!!!!!!! 
 It'll have you jumping out of your seat before you know it!!!!!!!!!! The game from the start was 
 creepy and demonic......... Especially when the creatures appear............. Most of the time I 
 spent playing this game, I was on the edge of my seat!!!!!!!
  
  This game I don't reccomend for the faint of heart, cause if they play it, they'd faint within the 
 first half-hour!!!!!!!!
  
  At any rate, This game does'nt quite use the technology to it's max, thus not making the game the 
 best as possible....... But with that said, the game still impresses!!!!!!!!!!
  
  The single player game is at times intense, and creepy at the same time.
  
  But the multiplayer 
 game is just your average deathmatch game, thus not very impressive......... So if your looking for 
 a good multiplayer game, doom 3 is NOT the way to go..........
  
  But if your looking for a AWESOME single player game and have a powerfull PC, I reccomend DOOM 3!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  I hope this helps someone!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beesbreck
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  Having played the original when it first came out I was looking forward to getting my hands on 
 this, and I wasnt disappointed, in fact the only criticism I have is that its too dark in places. 
 Fair enough, having dark corners so creatures can leap out at you was great but it just got frustrating 
 after a while, I kept looking for a light switch!!
  
  The graphics are sweet and it still looks good on my medium spec laptop. The music and sounds effects 
 are spot on and the creatures were suitably scary. I dont totally agree with the way the creatures 
 have been used as opposed to the original but thats neither here nor there. The weapons felt good 
 and did the business well. Item placement worked well and there was enough ammo / armour at hand 
 to keep me out of trouble.
  
  In all, the game looks fantastic with excellent levels and set pieces. The sound effects add to 
 the intense atmosphere and the whole package was a blast to play. Kudos to ID.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  Pros: For years the Doom franchise was seen as THE shooter that started it all, one of the best 
 shooters out there. Doom III tries to keep the Doom Legend alive. With a new story and new gameplay 
 items they want to give the Doom franchise a refreshing. If you look at Doom III as a game appart, 
 it's a very good game with a very nice engine. And the creepy setting gives a very unique setting 
 to the game. 
  
  Cons: It doesn't deserve the Doom name. It has nothing to do with the previous Doom games. I think 
 it's one big sale trick, they thought apperently that the game would sell if they put Doom on the 
 cover. It was one of my biggest dissapointments ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mule-Boy
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 involes a great story because it is... well fun, because there are demons and zombies and... 
 well it has alot of things that are put together to make a game that everyone loves, because it 
 is a horror, it had great graphics, it is a Fps with big bad ass guns, there is a magazine in the 
 game called guns & nachos and there is a game in the game called Super Turbo Turkey Puncher 3!!! 
 The Hell Level is cool because you can see what people think hell looks like, and it is really 
 atmospheric with fire and all the darkness too. And Talk About GRAPHICS! Man Doom 3 has the best 
 graphics ever!!! the lighting and shadows is great and the bump mapping and specular and efects 
 make me want to jump up and scream with joy!!! Just get this game man, it rules this world and 
 the futuristic colony on mars and the parralel dimension of Hell!!!
  
  Good stuff about doom 3:
  Amazing graphics
  cool big ass guns!
  Guns 'n' Nachos
  Friggin 
 Awsome sound!
  Great enemy AI
  just excelent!
  
  Bad stuff about doom 3:
  Can be hard at times
  Some stuff just doesnt feel right about it
  
  GET THIS GAME NOW OR 
 I WILL MURDER YOU!!! or not... just as long as you get DOOM 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chalker
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a long awaited additon to the Doom series in the early 90's, and it is alot like the original 
 ones but a little more slow paced. The game looks beutiful, the graphics engine is great and the 
 ligting effects are unbeleivable. It will immerse you among many dark levels against many fearfull 
 enemies as you play as a space marine who you reall don't know much about and you really never 
 hear him speak much. There really isn't much of a cinimatic element to it and no real story line 
 either. As you go through all of the exact same looking, linear levels you will experience many scary 
 points. I love the fact of the game being so scary and so dark and demons or zombies can pop out 
 from anywhere, the walls, the rafters, or even through the floors. It can get a real tension feeling 
 and can make you jump, it is awesome! The game is dark, real dark and you will need to use your flashlight 
 alot, with the great lighting the games has it can really help, you can even bash enemies over the 
 head with it. But the flashlight is seperate you will have to switch between it and your weapon, and 
 that is not good with all the creatures popping out all of the time, you think that far in the future 
 your weapons would have the flashlight on them. But you recieve alot of other cool weapons such 
 as shotguns, machine guns, and rocket launchers and they have good sounds to them.
  With out the nice cutscenes and story and proper weaponry (no flashlight on gun) the game will still 
 deliver some real fun and cool gameplay with stunning graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Now, this was a long anticipated game also. Couldnt wait to get my hands on it! This game was quite 
 a treat! Intense game and great graphics to boot.
  The SP is great, although disappointed in the MP, once again. 
  The monsters are pretty cool, 
 and some come at you really fast and furious!
  I recommend getting this game, think this game is one to play over and over again. 
  The only 
 thing that kinda got to me was how dark everything was. But hey, thats what the flashlight is for 
 huh?! Ooh and watch out for those explosive barrels too.... those go BOOOM! 
  I give this game a THUMBS UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jubileedoo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  This latest installment from the guys at ID Software will keep you on the edge of your gaming seat! 
 Been playing these types of games since Wolf, Spear, well, since the beginning really. In my opinion, 
 they set the standard for first-person pc-based shooter games, for their graphics, and level of 
 gameplay (you all know what I mean) . One word of caution: Doom3 will scare the crap out of you, 
 so turn the volume up, strap yourself in, and get ready for hellish mayhem ! I have no complaints, 
 just some observations: More "secrets". More humor (a la "Duke"...) Keep it up, you guys are unbelievable! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kike_u80
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game. Ive enjoyed just as I enjoyed Doom and Doom 2.
  
  Graphics - Are just amazing. 10 or even more. For an xbox are just THE GRAPHICS. Highly detailed 
 enviroment, weapons, and enemies.
  
  Sound - Great makes you fill in a creapy, dark enviroment. The best is when you heard a DEVILs 
 laugh or when the barrels are thrown by some enemies. 
  
  Gamplay- Its a great FPS. Its just you and your flashlight.
  
  Value It is a long campaign 
 mode but its not that great. All the levels are almost the same, rooms in the mars base. It only 
 changes when you go to hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanfwlr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an excellent acheivement is vidoe gaming. From the visuals to the terror, the game is 
 a high quality piece of work that all gamers should play.
  
  The graphics for Doom 3 are out of this world. The lighting effects that the game uses are some 
 of the most advanced ones I have ever seen. The bump mapping and texturing is amazing. The character 
 models are super detailed and look fantastic. The enemy monsters are some of the scariest and best 
 looking creatures I have ever laid eyes on. This game just plain looks amazing.
  
  The atmosphere created by the sound effects is spectacular. With surround sound or headphones, 
 you can hear the direction of the monster but the black of the screen keeps you from seeing it. 
 This creates one scary experience as monsters will be coming from all angles out of the dark.
 
  
  The gameplay itself feels very similar to the orginal Doom. You run and gun with a similar assortment 
 of weapons with a few extras thown in. The only problem would have to be that there are not that 
 many enemies at the start. For a while it seems like you are looking for them, not them hunting 
 you. It is a small gripe but still one to watch for.
  
  Doom 3 is an wonderful game and you owe it to yourself to go and get it. Plus the multiplayer is 
 down right fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duff_ManX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the long-awaited sequel to the two original games from way back in the 90's. Although 
 it is actually a remake of the first Doom, it brings in a few new concepts to the story and gameplay, 
 namely horror.
  
  The style of gameplay is what you would expect from any first-person shooter. You gain weapons 
 as you progress through the game, most of them are quite basic and do not stretch to anything out 
 of the ordinary. They are fairly enjoyable to use against the demons of hell, ranging from shotguns 
 to BFGs. You spend the game walking around a space station on Mars destroying the hell-sent scum 
 that gets in your way. This becomes quite tedious after a while and never really changes settings. 
 The fact that a torch cannot be used at the same time as a weapon is a silly contrivance. There 
 is a story in the game but it does not make much of an appearance, only enough to move things along.
 
  
  Graphics are simply wonderful, definitely Doom 3's strength. They push the PC's hardware to the 
 max, showing off the graphical capabilities of the platform. Shadows and light play a big part 
 in the game's atmosphere. Demons jump out at you from dark areas, leading to one of Doom 3's biggest 
 scare moments. Animations for characters and enemies are exceptional. The graphics would probably 
 have benefited from a change of setting but still come off as highly impressive.
  
  Sound is eerie and suspenseful. Most rooms have some form of noise emanating from them, adding 
 to the shock of a demon attack. The roars and cries of your foes can make situations quite tense 
 and may leave you shaking once they are dealt with. There is not much music featured in the game, 
 only coming to mind is the theme during the intro movie. This is not necessarily a bad thing, as 
 any music in-game may shatter the atmosphere.
  
  Doom 3 is long enough to keep you shooting demons and trekking through corridors for a good amount 
 of time, although the end of the game does come off as a bit of a disappointment. The multiplayer 
 that I have tried seemed okay, but was obviously not a priority. Co-op mode through the specific 
 campaign missions is much more exciting.
  
  This game is definitely a leap in the audiovisual area and provides some truly scary moments, courtesy 
 of the horror theme/atmosphere. It is often enjoyable and has some fun boss fights, but the lack 
 of any change of pace or gameplay concept is Doom 3's biggest downfall. A game that is most certainly 
 made by its graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoldySTD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  While the guns were not too inovative or had the right feel or sound they were still alright to 
 use. The AI was pretty good. The gameplay itself was vastly different. While Doom 1 and 2 were 
 fast paced blast through to that switch at all cost this was more slow and horror. Was absolutely 
 scary as hell even after completing even 1 once or twice witch adds to the overall replay value. 
 Graphically it's incredible with dark enviroments witch realy make the game scary. The whole flashlight 
 then gun etc etc got annoying but there were some pretty sick demons like that german tentacle 
 one. The theme is The greatest thing since sliced bread. This game will fully immerse you without 
 you realising it. If your new to doom this is good because it's sort of a remake of the first doom. 
 So overall, get this game and go to hell. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentNick
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The Associated Press has defined Doom 3 as one of the scariest games of all time. I myself preordered 
 it and ran frantically to my local EB to get it on the day it was released. Graphically demanding 
 and at the same time a gritty-but-beautiful romp through a Sci-Fi paradise, Doom 3 places the player 
 in the Union Aerospace Corporation's Mars facilities for another wild ride through the world that 
 is Doom.
  
  Doom has and always will define many aspects of the first person shooter genre, and and in the 
 case of Doom 3 does an acceptable job of demonstrating competency in all of the skills needed to 
 craft an exceptional title. 
  
  Weapons and enemies are fairly standard, getting a bit more elaborate toward the end and even extracting 
 a brief "Yes!" from even the quietest of us. General elation can be had in picking up many of the 
 game's later weapons, and in defeating enemies such as the dreaded (and capitalized) Hell Knight. 
 While there is the issue of being something close to blind while you are carrying a weapon, it's 
 almost feasible that a company as foolish as the UAC might actually consciously equip its security 
 forces without light-equipped weaponry.
  
  Sound is what defines Doom 3 above other games, and perhaps even sets it, in the aspect mind you, 
 above Half-Life 2 (the game so often compared to it, though they have little in common that warrant 
 this...) . Id's Mars City is a sound-fanatics heaven, from the sounds of industrial machines doing 
 whatever it is that they do (from clanks to hisses to whatever you can imagine) to the sounds of 
 screams and fighting in the backgrounds, it at times can in fact exceed the beauty of the city 
 noises of Valve's City 17.
  
  Graphics are a different story for Doom 3. While the graphics are impressive (even warranting their 
 use for the enjoyable Quake 4) , they lose some of their more intensities on even some of the nicest 
 hardware of late, sometimes demanding a supercomputer's processing capabilties and making my three 
 month old rig feel a lot older. While the game is very attractive on its medium-high settings (Ultra 
 is a little excessive anyway, eh?) and the framerates are decent even on an ATI X300, the shadow 
 effects can be seen for what they are, mere decals of darkness protruding from the surfaces you 
 point them at at a proper angle. At times, this seems akward, but at the same time is an ingeneous 
 (and VERY effective) simple solution to the modern problem of shadows and lighting. Perhaps not 
 as elaborate as any HDR effects of late, Doom 3's graphics definately deserve a whistle.
  
  It's atmosphere and immersion that Doom 3 excels at, placing the player (nameless as it were) amidst 
 a growing realm of fear and anxiety while slowly moving towards a quick exposition of some serious 
 plot twist-age. The sound and graphics combine with the story and relative back-story (the PDA 
 and announcement system was fantastic) to immerse the player in a way that is even overwhelming 
 in its presence. This game will induce random daydreams of adventure and excitement in a world 
 of zombie-blastage.
  
  Taking the entire game into perspective, however, Doom 3 accomplishes nothing that hasn't been 
 accomplished before, and even at times leans toward the linear and simple world of the classic 
 Doom title (which this game is intended to act as a remake of) . This doesn't take much away from 
 the title, I have to say though, as the game is enjoyable (though at times frustrating) and worth 
 the time and money that the game ends up costing you. I'm still working now on playing through 
 it again at a much higher difficulty, and I have to say that the game's definately fun no matter 
 what you do, and is a good addition to any collection for the sheer story-telling and environment 
 that Doom 3 does so incredible at putting forth. Get it. Go to your doom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  DOOM! The best game of all time in general starting with the most breakthrough game ever that was 
 released in 1993 ive played and own all the doom games and i say all are great including DOOM 3doom 
 3 has outstanding graphcs a fun gameplay and much more i tink that this game is pretty awsome in 
 general and i say that this game is awosme
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a aa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 a aaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bilbohowareyou
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  When the deathmetal tune that always plays when you start up doom you expect a real good shooter 
 with great graphic, well no. The only good thing about this game is the graphics, they're just 
 that good. As soon as that first cut-scene appeared on my scree I was transfixed, little did I 
 know just how much the storyline (and the the gameplay) sucked. There is pittiful variety in weapon 
 choice and I'll amitt sometimes I jumped at the start of the game, then after 2hr of play I was 
 like "was that supposed to be scarywhy because every demon waits behind a door or corner waitting 
 for you to 'chance' (sarcasm) upon them. Its just so repeatitive and the missions repeatitive repeatitive 
 repeatitive all you ever seem to do is look for security clearences. And the storyline has no depth 
 and hardly a plot for that matter but im so annoyed at id for that im not going into that matter. 
 
  
  But given how good the graphics are, and that fact that it's mighty fun (for the first time, after 
 you've finished the game there is not much point in playing again) to shoot, blow up and hack up 
 with a chainsaw, demons.
  
  And a quick note, the end boss is very disappointing and I can guarantee other players would agree. 
 And next to none environmental interaction
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigfatmonkeys
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a good game i liked playing it except the online got repetative but the story mode scared 
 the s@#% out of me because its dark and your holding a gun or you have a flashlight.... even with 
 it the ppl sneak up on you and jump out in your face scaring the f$#% out of you... i almost pissed 
 my pants at one point. You should get the game etc... etc... I hope if you buy the game that you 
 enjoy it and so on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Umm im just typing because la lal 
 al la la la la al al al la la i need 100 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celticpred_65
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS A VERY CREEPY VIDEO GAME. CREEPIER THAN THE OTHER DOOM GAMES BESIDES DOOM 3: EXPANSION PACK 
 R. O. E., FOR ONLY ONE REASON: THE GRAPHICS. THE GRAPHICS IN THIS GAME ARE INCREDIBLE. THIS GAME 
 IS SO GOOD, MY OPINION, BREAK THE METER! GO OVER 10! THIS GAME ISNT PERFECT! ITS INCREDIBLE! THIS 
 GAME IS A PERFECT 100%! THE ONLY PROBLEM ABOUT THIS GAME, IS THAT YOU NEED A HUGE AMOUNT OF SPACE 
 ON YOUR HARD-DRIVE. I SAY BREAK THE METER ON THAT TOO! YOU NEED: 8X SPEED CD-ROM DRIVE, 2.2GB OF 
 UNCOMPRESSED FREE HARD DISK SPACE, AND A PENTIUM IV 1.5 GHz OR ATHALON XP1500+ PROCESSER OR HIGHER 
 (FOR BETTER GRAPHICS) . OTHER WISE, THIS GAME IS YET ANOTHER GAME TO ADD TO THE COLLECTION. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Professional0
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Overall it reminds me of the classic shooters like the original doom or quake. But, never did i 
 have as much fun with those as I did with Doom 3; now sure the game didn't have much variation 
 in gameplay since all you could really do with the character was occasionally interact with a person 
 or terminal and of course point and shoot. Of course the game made up for this with the tension 
 present in the overall atmosphere. Around every dark corner there was always something waiting 
 for you. As far as difficulty goes you can expect to have a rough time getting through some parts 
 of the game but that's also what makes it a challenge. Sometimes you're faced with one enemy and 
 other times (more often than not) you're being swarmed by a bunch of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlisle20
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has stunning graphics, good sound and a great variation of monsters. However, the game 
 play is another story. Every level is the same. Walking through coridoor after coridoor going BOOM 
 BOOM with the slow-paced shotgun. The guns also just don't sound powerful enough. The BFG does, 
 but the machine guns sound like a cheap nail gun, Oh and the pistol's noise is just a joke. If 
 you want to show of your gaming rig, get this game. If you enjoy just plain killing, get this game. 
 But if you enjoy originality of story, and varied gameplay, buy something else. I recommend Quake 
 4 over this game, I think it is what Doom 3 should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Randomnessdoom
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a welcome addition to the most highly popular series that without whom we wouldn't have 
 games like halo, callofduty, counterstrike and so many other fps's. Doom 3 is so indept its liek being 
 in a horror movie. make ur friends pee there pants turn the lightsout let them play doom but make 
 sure u plastic wrap ur chair. It was a good game but i think the only reason it sold so well was 
 that we got tired of playing the pixalated orignals and knew that this would totally kick major 
 ass. oh it did it kicked so much ass they made it into an xbox game. wich kicked more ass for people 
 wiht crappy computers. Go grab some popcorn and a 2 liter of cok and some bawls. and maybe a flashlight 
 and snuggle up to a good game
  
  
  so go buy doom3 if u thinkg your man enough but dont accidently buy that gay movie wiht the rock 
 in it. i want my 8 dollars and 2 hours back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khuhoo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  You are locked in hell, alone, in strange places, all around you is death, deads or something trying 
 kill you, trying still alive and receiving missions. The sounds of this game realy scares me, always 
 a saw a door a thought about what the hell was there or what the hell will happen with me there.
 
  The graphics are realy good and exciting, the weapons creative and realistics. With huge and greats 
 maps. The multiplayer is not so good, but i think that's becouse my computer, so much lag, and 
 the maps are small. Doom 3 and the quakes are the best shooter i ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigelf72
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  I was some amped about this game. I built a computer almost strictly to play this game and Half-Life 
 2. Half-Life 2 runs circles around this game. The graphics in this game are very nice. Half-life 
 2 still owns it. The game offers a few appealing scare tactics. But other than pure hype.... this 
 game lives up to nothing. The multiplayer is a joke. The only thing innovational about this game 
 is just the graphics. Even the sounds is pretty lame. Its a good thing the mod community did a 
 good job trying to beef it up. Also this game was way too dark, i think "id" was trying to induce 
 fear by making it dark.... but it just made the gameplay horrid. Not worth playing, and not worth 
 buying. The only reason it gets a 7.7 is because super-turbo-turkey-puncher made doom 3 a fun game 
 to play. Other than that.... nope 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo81989
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 11, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is an instant classic. It was pretty scary, very good graphics, great sound, easy gameplay, 
 and it even had a good story line. I could'nt wait for this game to come out, I got it and beat. 
 My advice to you would be just to go out and buy, because it is amazing. This game is very addictive, 
 but I couldn't play it for hours straight though, maybe it is jus a phsycological thing. The "Doom 
 3: Ressurection of Evil" expansion pack is pretty amazing to. Once you beat the game, you should 
 go and buy the expansion pack. I can't wait for Doom 4, I will be all over it. The movie is also 
 good. The only bad thing about that is that it does'nt follow the story line of the game. The new 
 guns on the games are pretty good too. The only bad thing with the gameplay is that the flashlight 
 does not attach to the gun without the duck tape mod. Which is a free mod that you can download 
 pretty much anywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharififreind
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  doom 3 is an absolutly fantastic game. it combines creepy horror, amazing visuals, aggressive AI 
 and superb sound to create the most frightening experience ever made in a game. i cant state how 
 good this game is. not only that but its bed wettingly scary. a little too scary in fact. i never 
 played a doom game before so i didnt know wat i was in for. when i bought it i thought it was going 
 to be another fps with a few zombies here and there. but when i did play it properly i found that 
 it was so much more. the nightmarish enemies werent everywhere. but thats what makes it so intensly 
 frightening. you slowly walk through a corridor, on edge, knowing that a demon is goin to pop out 
 at any moment and try to maul you. you keep walking, each step more terrifying than the last, when 
 a body falls from the ceiling and you empty your last 5 pistol bullets at it thinking it was a 
 foe. the game is a true masterpiece. the sound effects are awsome too. you often hear other marines 
 being slaughtered and the music just adds to the fear. the graphics are phenominal. but you may 
 need a high end cpu to play it smoothly. i play mine on ultra very smoothly but on the other hand 
 i have a 3.4 ghz cpu with 2gb ram so be forewarned. all in all doom 3 is a must buy for doom fans 
 and those who like the type of games that leave you wetting yourself but if you are fainthearted 
 and dnt like scary games dont even think about buying it. it will be a wqaste of money because 
 its so scary you wont play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derrico_8448
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I actually bought an alienware pc to get doom 3. And wow it was worth the 2200 dollars. Doom 3 
 doesn't have the steepest system requirements, which is good to some people. But what doom fan 
 hasn't upgraded their Pcs in anticipation of this game! So were past the graphics now. the gameplay 
 is incredible... Even though with the advanced plasma firing rifles, they can't figure out how to 
 put a flashlight on a gun. But you get so used to it, you don't care. It gets a bit predictable 
 after awhile, The enemys constantly spawning around corners, or behind you. This game is worth 
 buying for anyone, anywhere. Plus, its on the xbox too, so u have no excuse not to play it. hahahhahahha
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: juanchisoto
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 10, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  This ID Software game it's the first awesome FPS since Quake I (my opinion) . I'm a Quaker since 
 this first one (Quake II and Quake III did not like me too much, but i already played Quake 4, 
 pretty good one) . But this Doom 3 deserves a great score in the Hall of Fame of FPS. Very, very 
 good and very, very scary too. My recommendation, play it only a few hours, two or three times 
 a week... Otherwise, its pretty good. Im playing right now The resurrection of Evil expansion 
 pack, pretty good too, got no full opinion already. Get this DOOM 3, it worth the time invested 
 on playing, and has it an extreme graphics performance. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboryno
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  Well, after seeing other people playing Doom 3 and reading about it on the net, I just had to go 
 get it for myself. At the time my pc was not really capable of running it at full graphics, but 
 nevertheless I got into the game pretty soon. Then of course new games was released and I played 
 the others rather then wasting my time playing a game I have to run on lowest detail.
  
  Things change quickly though and I soon upgraded my machine to what was then a reasonably to end 
 pc. Including a NX6600 256 MB... So finally I could turn up the detail and I took things from the 
 start. I was extremely impressed with the level of detail the game produced. This was my first 
 real first person shooter game, not having played Half Life or Counter Strike up to then.
  
  So this was really my first go at being a destructive killing machine... Must say that the 
 general game play was very realistic compared to other games I have seen and tried out. Although 
 now that I have finished Quake 4 and played Half Life 2 (halfway through) , this was only the end 
 of the beginning of great stuff to be produced. I even got myself the Resurrection of Evil expansion. 
 Have'nt got far as yet, but I think it will be just as great!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_werry_man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 9, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  DOOM 3 IS GREAT
  
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME 
 ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME 
 ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME 
 ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME 
 ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  GREAT GAME ID!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanielDarth
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  Not only am I legally not allowed to play this game (naughty me) but I am also one of those people 
 that can't stand being chased on games, one of the reasons I hated the Polar bear levels in Crash 
 Bandicoot. So, realising this, I started to play Doom 3. I say I started to play Doom 3, everyone 
 else played while I soiled in a dark corner. Anyway, I got round to playing *eventually* and quite 
 enjoyed it. So I continued to play, stopping every now and again to let my pulse slow before I 
 imploded. I was incredibly impressed with the graphics even on low res (all my computer could handle) . 
 As we got further in, it didn't get any less scary, but we didn't experience too much lag either, 
 although when we did it was scary. In fact, we came up with a theory that when the game lagged, 
 there was a beast nearby or some other bad event was about to happen. Saved us many a time. Anyway, 
 we still haven't finished it (OUT OF FEAR!) but from what we have played, I can honestly say 'tis 
 a good game, with brilliant graphics, solid and scary gameplay and it lasts along time, well for 
 us at least. So far we've been playing for about 2 months (first started when the film came out 
 and we saw it) and we still haven't tired of it. If you like being scared, or if you don't, buy 
 this game.
  
  This is my first review, so please don't rip me a new one if you don't like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romel91
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  doom3 is a great game but its one hell of a maze and is for anyone who is new to the doom serise 
 it shouldn't be that hard to get the hang of. the game is great in my opion and the graphics are 
 great u really need a good machine to let it fully loose i had to upgrade my machine to unleash 
 the game the right way. after all said and done doom3 is a great game. i bet the game in about 
 3 days thats just because i'm on it 24/7 what can i say i'm a gmaer and i love to play games, alot 
 .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reebus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Doom 3. One of the greatest PC games for many reasons. One mainly being that it was one of the 
 first games to utilise the new graphics engine, a landmark for future games' graphics. 
  
  In doom 3 you play as a kick-ass marine, unnamed following first person genres of course, and you 
 have been posted at the Union Areospace Coorparation's Mars Facility. Strangely, All of the employee's 
 seem to be on the edge as if scared by some paranormal force. As you journey through the base you 
 are required to find a missing scientist. When you eventually find him cataclismioc events unfold 
 and you are thrown into the vast amounts of action that will ensue. You must journey through the 
 facility and unravel the mystery of the events that led to this crisis. 
  
  The game itself will have you on the dge of your chair as behind every dark corner there will be 
 some infernal creature from hell that will have you scared witless. Not only that but you must 
 also learn to use your torch without the use of your guns, which makes the game all the more harder. 
 The weapon in the game range from your hands and flashlight to the shotgun, chaingun, plasma rifle 
 and BFG 9000. And what Doom game wouldn't be complete without the good ol' chainsaw for hacking 
 them zombies to shreds. 
  
  The graphics in the games are very remarkable and the real time physics in the game are top notch. 
 The game has an awesome storyline and the game is very lengthy. There isn't much of a learning 
 curve as the game follows ujsual controls for most PC FPS's. I have only had this gamne a few days 
 and i have already played it to death. If you are into FPS's and like being scared then this is 
 the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  DOOM 3 is really fun. though it may have the creepy and angry that the flashlights dont attach to 
 a gun without a mod moments but its what makes the game challenging. the gameplay is challenging 
 always. even if god mode is on, DOOM 3 is still challenging. good to know if ur scared to stop the 
 challenge. Graphics are awesome for today and 2004 and whenever. sound is great to hear all scary 
 shrieks and screams and death cries from soldiers. a great value, i guess. im pretty sure its fun. 
 a 9 range for me. and as many words for this game. lets say great, awesome, kick@$$, and BFG 9K. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chulksmack1212
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  hey everyone Doom 3 is great and today im talking about its online co op its really fun and a new 
 way to meet people i beat the co op game with one person lol took forever but yea ok depending 
 on who ur playing with the fun ness can vary lol some people are psyco .. some are stupid and like 
 run around doing nothing and some people dont talk if u wanna play online co op u should be a talker 
 and work together with ur 1 and only team mate and DONT HOG THE HEALTH ALL U HEALTH AND AMMO STEALERS 
 SPLIT IT WITH UR PARTNER .. but yea ok buy this game and add me to ur xbox live .. Gamertag is Chulksmack1212 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_Diverse_X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Title: DOOM 3
  Publisher: Activision
  Developer: id Software
  Rating: M
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay isn't as good as I hoped it would be. Run it, shoot some people, go to 
 next room, shoot people there. More like old school gameplay.
  
  Graphics - Beautiful graphics. The graphics engine runs smoothly and there are hardly any problems.
 
  
  Sound - Great sound, but it didn't give me the rush of a realy gun. When ever I shot at a monster, 
 it should like I was shooting metal.
  
  Value - A lengthy story that keeps you interested, and the multiplayer is pretty fun too.
  
 
  Tilt - Pretty fun, it gets you scared at some points, which makes this game pretty fun.
  
  Doom 3 is a good game, but the best part of the game is it's graphics, but once you get past that, 
 it just another normal shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pipodilernia
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 2, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  if you follow the sage of doom y recommend you to play doom 3, its the best doom of all, if you 
 like blood you would like to play this game. Its charge with blood violence and emotion. All the 
 creatures are pretty smart (?) and the levels where the history develop are awesome.
  The creators look very well at the develop of the weapons and the differents secrets that you would 
 find if you look with patient.
  Another very very good point is the realistic graphics compound the game.
  We have luck because 
 Doom 3 have an expansion pack Doom 3 Resurrection of evil
  well thats all (I think)
  BYE 
  pipodilernia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamegaman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 2, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  To start off, I have been a huge Doom fan for years and this is by far the most intense Doom game 
 yet, well thats obvious based on the graphics, monsters and the whole game itself. I honestly have 
 no complaints other than the games structure requires a really powerful computer to run as it is 
 very very demanding, even on my PC which is a P4 2.8 Ghz processor with 512 MB of RAM and a ATI 
 Radeon 9200 graphics card. It runs fairly smoothly but it takes a bit to load. I would recommend 
 anyone use AMD processors instead of P4's for a game with the architechture that is in Doom 3 as 
 well as Quak 4, both are ID produced games. Overall the game is a ton of fun, kinda creepy near 
 the begining but you soon start to become aware of what is going on around you and the way monsters 
 attack you becomes rather repetitive, unless of course you want a challenge and you are playing 
 it on Nightmare mode. The storyline is not really all there, it is kind of a repeat of the original 
 Doom game on Mars but with more of a twist. The monsters are the real hilight of Doom 3. Remember 
 how ugly and easy to kill the old monsters were back in the old days? Well most monsters take more 
 than a single shotgun blast to kill them now. Mind you there are fewer enemies, you dont encounter 
 massive swarms when you walk into a room like in the original games, but these baddies are mean 
 and will stop at nothing to kill you. All of them have been redone and had a complete makeover 
 but they still retain some of their original characteristics. Unfortunatly the Elemental Pain, 
 Arachnoid's and the Archvile do not appear in this game. The Archvile is actually there but he 
 cant revive any monsters (THANK GOD) but he can teleport and shoot fire at you and becomes a nuisance 
 after a while, taking him out is priority when there are other bad guys around as he would normally 
 be hanging out with Imps most of the time. The problem I have with Doom 3 is that it lacks appearances 
 of a lot of the monsters you love to hate like the Pinky and the Mancubus which are only in a few 
 areas in the game. Personally I found the Hell levels rather cool, too bad there werent enough 
 of them. The boss's were a great addition, its just a shame they left out the Spider Mastermind 
 and replaced him with Vagory and Guardian as well as Saboath. One thing I missed about the game 
 was the double barrel shot gun and the Berserk items. The sound in the game kind of sucks, there 
 is no music in the levels, but the monster voices are made so well that in the complete silence 
 they can scare you. All in all its a great game for Doom fanatics, but dont expect it to have the 
 same feel as the originals because it doesnt even come close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwarsyoda
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 2, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  I had played the original doom games and found them to be ok, probably ground breaking for their 
 time, but just average. So I had heard of the long awaited sequel to it and how it had been said 
 that it was the best new FPS games coming out. The fact that it was running on a brand new engine 
 and had dynamic lighting really turned me on to getting it. So day after thanksgiving I went to 
 get it because it was half price, 20 bucks. I had really not played a good fps before so this was 
 my first. It was probably the best twenty bucks I spent on a game. It was amazing. Even though 
 it was not running at the highest settings, it still looked incredibly good, and the mood and sound 
 was out standing. It really opened my eyes to the way videogames were going and this would be one 
 of the first. The weapons were awesome and really gave the power and realism to every gun. This 
 awesome power kept coming back and the story moved quickly and didn't waste time with sniping and 
 strategy. This game is amazing and should already be a part of any self respecting FPS enthusiast 
 and for newbs just getting started; this is an excellent pick up that should start you before you 
 jump into Fear or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowcloud21
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  DAMN! Doom had made the ultimate comeback with this game. The whole thing that was great of the 
 whole thing is that the hero is still unnamed. He is just a marine trying to stop Hell from getting 
 to Earth. When I first saw the Doom 3 commercial, my eyes widened, got tearful, and my hands were 
 trembling. The game looked amazing! Such amazing graphics, but I didn't know until I played the 
 game in person did I see the horrors that lay in the dark corners of Mars. Your first enemy is 
 the "happy-go-lucky" scientists who have been possessed by tormented spirits. Zombies, like in 
 the past game, can use guns, or just run up and start biting and clawing at you. Zombies come in 
 a variety of looks, from one without legs, to one WITHOUT A HEAD! Head shots are good for a zombie 
 takedown but headless zombies make things a little harder. Then, you meet Doom's most famous demon, 
 the imp! No longer humanoid looking and more like a licker from Resident Evil, these mother (bleep) s 
 appear in the worst of times. When low on ammo or health, suddenly, one will jump down from the 
 ceiling or a pipe under the floor, to inflict fireball-wielding hell on you! You'll also encounter 
 the spider boss, who is the last boss on the first game. The graphics are fantastic! From the dark 
 corridors where your only weapon is a flashlight, to the flickering lights overhead. There are 
 also occassional times where the room you are in suddenly turns red and into a cavernous look and 
 then, back to its original form, a good look of what it will look like if Hell takes over. The 
 most noteable enemy is the HUGE dog-like metal-back-legged demons who are ruthless, hella strong, 
 and won't think about leaving you alone. You get a huge arsenal of deadly guns, but then again, 
 so do most demons. Be careful of rocket-launching skeletons! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  This game must surely be one of the most antecipated and hyped games of all time.
  
  So its only natural that it doesn't succeed in meeting expectations. Most of the time its a preety 
 generic shooter, with interesting twists. Unlike its predecessors, focused on blasting hundreds 
 of enemies per second, this one goes for a more survival horror experience. And this is what makes 
 the game trully interesting, I jumped out of my chair plenty of times playing it. Weapons are boringly 
 generic, but pleasurable to use because of how detailed they are.
  
  Where this game succeeds without doubt is in its graphics engine. The graphics are absolutely stunning, 
 even on the lower detail settings. And its the graphics and shadow effects that really sell the 
 horror, otherwise it would be a 90s shooter.
  
  Even with its shortcomings, ambiance is everything in this game, and it surely is a rewarding experience 
 for it with many, many memorable moments. (And scary ones)
  
  If Id risked a bit more on gameplay design, perhaps we would have here a classic, but sticking 
 to convention, we have a good standard shooter with cutting edge graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_Davila89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  one HELL of a scary game
  i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing 
 else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i 
 have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else 
 to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have 
 nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockmasteR-_-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  great game, from the graphics to the gameplay, but not recommended for the
  players who got a week heart, and I really mean it by that.
  but the bad thing in the game is 
 that it takes a great amount of memory (RAM)
  so you need a new PC to run it.
  
  at least u must have 512 RAM to play it well. 
  
  besides the effect in the game are really 
 nice , great work for "id"
  
  the best thing in the game is the surpise in it, when you kill the two big monsters from hell, 
 and you think that the game is over... but you still far away for the end, where later you will 
 meet, the same monsters later in hell, and other missions (I'm talking about the monster on the 
 Cover of the CD-DVD Game)
  
  and finally I just want to say :
  
  Great work Guys, keep it up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaidpass
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first game fps i bought for Pc. I love it its soo good graphics. The gameplay 
 is fun too cause u see monsters flying at u and u have to kill them. I went to hide somewhere it 
 was **** black in there. Wen i go in there there was someone already in there it scared the hell 
 out of me. The game is really viloent thats why i love it. The only reason i dun give it a 10 cause 
 the weapons suck and the online is garbage. The sound is really good raise it to full and play 
 it at night it will scare the **** out of u :P. This game is cheap now only $20. Its a great deal. 
 Tilt i got no idea wat it is so i just give it a 9 cause the overall is around that. Well i just 
 started to play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  whooooooo....
  That game is scary. Cant believe i actually finished it. Thank god.
  Now after almost 10 years of the first doom classic comes this latest version of Doom (doom 3) 
 on PC.
  This game is a classic horror which should be best played alone.
  Doom 3 has all the essentials to scare the hell out of you.
  GRAPHICS- The graphics of Doom 3 
 is the best you will find in a PC game and makes the game look even more scarier. Even the creatures 
 look real.
  SOUND- The sound Is of excellent quality and the voice acting is top notch. Although you wont meet 
 many people through the game their Audio Logs will give you the perfect visualization of what they 
 must have been through when they were attacked. It makes the atmosphere all the more tense.
  GAMEPLAY - Doom 3 does not have much of gameplay. it follows the same old theory in FPS's (shoot 
 everything that moves) .
  STORY - The game losses ground on weak story. you r a nameless mercenery sent to mars to help them 
 get rid of the Monsters. However the few characters which are there are well written.
  
  All in all ,Doom 3 is one hell of a game (and i mean it when i say "hell") which can give you sleepless 
 nights. although it could have been better if it wasnt for weak gameplay and stupid story. The game 
 is also pretty easy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goda
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Well where to start I've been playing doom for a lot of year Like doom 1 back on my old p-1 computer 
 on dos lol yes i'm old But can't stop playing it
  Tho i was mad that it took them so long to put out doom 3 it was worth the wate This game is so 
 creepy that i get people bumps just playing it.
  The shory line kinda sucks but the game play is for lack of better words F-ing kick a*s the graf's 
 are nuts and the monsters are 10 times better looking then i've ever seen, Do your slef a faver 
 and download the gore patch : D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShootersRule
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Although I played the Xbox version first, I thought that's what the PC version was like, except 
 in the PC version, you can bring up the command-console and do a bunch of cheats! I use a computer 
 that can't handle the game on high or even medium graphics, but even with the graphics set to low, 
 the lighting effects were still great. Seeing videos of the game on G4 TV, the graphics are probobly 
 the best there is (lighting and monsters) . The controls are standard to most PC shooters, the game 
 provides a great adrenaline rush (especially when you've played the Xbox first and you don't expect 
 some parts to happen) . The weapons in the PC version are better than the Xbox version (chaingun 
 and plasma rifle has a higher ROF) , and the sound effects are great! The idea of fighting the devil 
 and the devil-stars everywhere is a little too much, but it brings back the traditions of the original 
 DOOM, except with better graphics and sound!
  And with the $30 value, it's a great deal!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a great game that will always keep your attention. The graphics are great amd the darkness 
 if the environment always keeps you on the edge of your seat. The gameplay itself is really good 
 to. The weapons are all fun to use, and there is a use for every one. The game is always changing. 
 Doom 3 is a must own if you love shooters, and is perfect if your looking for some real action 
 or even a quick scare. I feel that it is the best in the horror/shooter genre, closely followed 
 by Resident Evil for Gamecube. I will never regret buying this game and I'm sure you won't either, 
 enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionBob
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I can honestly say I was expecting alot from this title.
  Lucky for me this did capture what made the orignals such a major hit.
  However that isn't exactly 
 a good thing the graphics at the time of this games release were incredible to say th least.
  They still are, and the engine has showed its true power in games like quake4.
  Thing is the 
 game play was extremely dated, the ai made the game less intresting.
  I can say honestly this game was a fun game for the most part but it does get boring. 
  Another 
 draw back is it had nearly no replay value what so ever and considering this game was 55 bucks 
 at release I expect a little more.
  The multiplayer was terrible, honestly it really was one of the worst examples of a multiplayer 
 setup I have ever seen.
  Example: Player A and Player B are playing, Player A picks up the rocket launcher he now controls 
 the entire game no matter was Player B does.
  Its still worth a play and now that its older and people can afford the cards that can actually 
 run this game like it was meant to be run.
  Whats holding yeah back? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david465
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  omg!!!!! you are walking in a long hallway, your almost at the end of the hall, with a rocket launcher 
 in your hands. It's silent, maybe a bit... to silent, all you hear is the music playing in the 
 background, you turn the corner, and bam!!!!! 2 hellknights standing right beside each other!!!!! 
 What would you do in this kind of a situation, i would run my arse off!!!!!! Do you know what game 
 i'm talking about??? DOOOMMMM 33333333333. the graphics for this game are the best graphics i have 
 ever seen, i mean ever. The gameplay is a bit repetitive, but enough gore to keep you hooked and 
 scared for a long time!!! Even though monsters ocassionaly come out of nowhere it's so fun shooting 
 them down. The music in this game is the scariest music i have ever heard, and keeps the anticipation 
 high and the suspense. I love the demonic sounds!!! This game is worth the 70$ i believe, the game 
 is so long, but really there's no story, just go into hell, and destroy the devil guy i guess. The 
 tilt is amazing and it's very accurate. Did i tell you about the smoke that the rockets leave behind, 
 amazing graphics dude!!!!!! Doom 3 is difinetely one of the most scariest and greatest looking 
 games i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: never-named
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  Paranoia, claustrophobia, physical & mental weakness, now I know why all these elements were ever 
 put inside a human being. Of course you will also know the answer as soon as you play Doom 3 for 
 the PC. This is a game best played alone. The overwhelming atmosphere, the outstanding visuals 
 and unsurpassed adrenaline-rushed gameplay is enough to turn even the most toughest of all soldiers 
 into a frightened, insignificant soul.
  
  Doom3 isn't a proper sequel but a remaking per se, of the old-school shooter. There is absolutely 
 no need to fill up on plot points but no matter how much criticism this game has endured, the plot 
 is actually quite deep { (*spoiler*) this game actually tells the history of the human species as 
 it was before even the prehistoric times; as a fiction} .
  
  While the gameplay is as simple as ever it is extremely heavy and adrenaline fueled. This is no 
 Half Life, no Halo, nothing revolutionary or evolutionary about the gameplay, but a thick and atmospheric 
 corridor run.
  
  The best thing about Doom 3 are it's visuals. Phenomenal is probably the best word to describe 
 it. The best graphical technology ever created on the face of the earth fuels this extremely atmospheric 
 game. You will see lights flickering as it should in the real world, detached lanterns hanging 
 from the ceiling and oscillating thus creating a kind of pulsing lighting around a certain area. 
 It's all just brilliant. The overwhelming atmosphere of the game does an outstanding job of contributing 
 to the gameplay. Somehow it manages to give the game a certain challenge. But I will not mention 
 how, otherwise it'll spoil all the fun.
  
  Finally, the creatures. The folks at id were surely mistreated and tortured badly during their 
 childhood. The sadistic look of each and every creature is enough to permeate fear within one's 
 soul. The way they realistically yet menacingly move, react to your presence and come running at 
 you is too horrific.
  
  About the Xbox version: I really think putting co-op gameplay for the Xbox was actually ruining 
 the total experience of playing alone, though it does refine the gameplay in a sort of way.
  
  Gamespot did not rate this game fairly, they put more emphasis on gameplay than its artistic 
 visions (which is of course what the game is all about) . Even if the gameplay has some noticeable 
 shortcomings it's still quite a fun experience. This game should be considered a piece of art, 
 it is awesome to witness the level of evolution the gaming world has gone through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5killer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game ever made. It has everything you would want in a game and more. Doom 
 3 is a true sequel to the Doom series. Doom started a genre that would mark the history of gaming 
 and when you make a game thats a good sequel to something that big its pretty hard. This game has 
 the gameplay the graphics the sound and the value perfectly done. Some people complain about the 
 flashlight and its to dark and things like that. But nitpicking at a game dosent do any good. You 
 can nitpick at every single game ever made but people dont complain. This is the best game ever 
 made no question about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisKrishna
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  In my life i havent ever experianced such a horror. It was 10 PM and my friend geve me a copy of 
 Doom 3. He went to his home and iam all alone. My mom and dad went to my grand mothers house iam 
 alllllll alone god damn it. I heard lods of good things about this game and i was affraid to play 
 it. I installed it. And started it this scared the hell of meee. Oh i was really affraid and suddenly 
 it became 12oclock. The current went offffffffff. Bull **** iam now alone in the dark with the 
 torch and i really bcame the hero of DOOM 3. Any way this is the review.
  
  Gameplay
  The good+ Really scaring all the story is cool and all the PDA (Personal Data Assistance) is really 
 cool. The demon coming unexpected from our back is the reallity bitessss. ID u rulz with Activision. 
 Really u guys r cool. They designed the HELL really good.
  The Bad- In gameplay the only bad thing is AI of demons. Not much cool. The problem i faced was 
 they r little bit twitchy. In some places we can know where will be the demons. It should be random
 
  Score: 9
  
  Graphics
  The good+ OHHHHHHHHHHHH MYYYYYYYYYYYYYY GODDDDDDDDD. the best graphics engine ever created wonderfully 
 is here the best u know this engine rulz. Every things r highly detailed. Gun, Violence, Terrain, 
 Demons, Character annimation bwaahaha. Graphics make the game more scary u know the dark enviornment.
 
  The bad- Nooooooooo badddddddddddd
  Score: 10
  
  Sound
  The good+ All the sound effects like demon the rooms background score and even the guns r cool. 
 The screeming is cool. But some negetive is also there. 
  The bad- Machine guns sound is not good it must become much powerfull.
  Score: 9
  
  A game 
 which u can enjoy for all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllboutRedskins
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  When I played this game omg it was sweeeeeeeeeeet!!!!!! The Graphics was amazing. The gameplay 
 was even better. The ai yea they are dumb just straight attack no falling back and regrouping but 
 hey that dosent botherme a bit. I still play the game to this day (both on pc and xbox) . The xbox 
 verson is a little different and does play good considering that it only has a p3. On My pc I have 
 a monster. I have a AMD3700+ 1gb of ram pc2700 200gb hdd and 2 pci-ex Geforce 6600gts 128mb per 
 card!! Overall DOOM3 kiks ASS:) So if ur a doom fan than u cant go wrong with doom3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  The Scariest Exsperiance Ever... and i mean it, if you get thrills and buzzes from scary stuff them 
 Doom3 you're game, its the scariest game known to man.
  
  You're a new recruit on a Mars facillaty when hell brakes losse, these flying skulls come from 
 the pits of hell from mars and enters human bodies, they transform into monsters, its dark, you're 
 on you're own, eary music, sound effects and the sound of death wispering into you're ear "You're 
 next"...
  
  WARNING- this game may contain gore, vilonce and horror, thats bull its.
  WARNING- this game CONTAINS bloody gore, vilonce like theres no tomorrow and its so flipping scary 
 you're soul will go to heaven leaving you gazing into the death known as doom3.
  
  you word to descrabe  scary, not for the faint hearted!. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bah-Humbug
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Id Software's Doom 3 I was disappointed. Sure the game looked stunning and 
 made me jump in freight a few times but it felt a bit boring. By the time I got to hell I was fed 
 up and I used cheats to finish the game in one sitting from there. I was very negative and did 
 not appreciate the ending or the gameplay. Fast forward more then a year and a whole new super-system 
 and for some reason I enjoyed the game much more then the last time. 
  
  I played to game on max detail settings and on Hard to make the game more challenging and I ended 
 up enjoying the game enough to by it's expansion pack Resurrection of Evil. I think I came in expecting 
 a half-life experience instead of an old-school shooter experience. Doom 3 environments bleed atmosphere; 
 it is dark and there are some nasty hellish sights. 
  
  The story for Doom 3 is simple but will probably hold your interest while you kill demon after 
 demon. If you have never played a Doom game and likely a shooter period the story as follows. Mankind 
 has explored Mars and has built a research base on it and is studying tellaportation when something 
 terrible happens. Unwittingly or not a portal to hell is opened and demons flood the base killing 
 people. You are a marine and it is up to you to kill the demons and close the portal to hell for 
 good.
  
  The games enemies are pretty dumb but then again the Doom series has never been know for ground 
 breaking AI. Most of the time baddies will lunge out at you from behind nowhere or teleport right 
 in front, behind you or both at the same time. Expect to get ambushed often and don't expect it 
 to stop until the game ends. If you are a wuss or are faint of heart this might be the game for 
 you. 
  
  The enemies although easy to kill may surprise you and shake you up. Attacks be them melee or range 
 literally shake your view as if you were hit which can make aiming a bit difficult. There is tons 
 of blood dead and mutilated people in the mars base and the games foes are fittingly butt ugly. 
 On top of demons you will be facing lots of possessed people which act and look like zombies, well 
 some of them. Others have guns and have decent AI and aiming.
  
  Most of the time you will be in the Mars base but you will also explore alien ruins and hell itself. 
 Bosses are big and mean but are not hard to beat if you have played other shooters. As stated above 
 Doom 3 looks stunning. The light effects and monster, environments look amazing. The sound effects 
 are good but weapons and explosions sound weak. Monsters sound great though and the voice acting 
 is pretty good to.
  
  Multiplayer is fast and fun but there is not enough options or maps to keep you playing it for 
 long. All in all if you want to kill a lot of stuff Doom 3 and it's expansion pack Resurrection 
 of Evil will serve you well, just don't expect innovative gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20860399346417257776889966510425-bull_people
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the long awaited game from ID software, famous for the Doom, Quake and Wolfenstein series 
 but they are most famous because they created the FPS genre and the game engines they make are 
 always top of the line. Now we have Doom 3 the third instalment in the series most credited for 
 ID softwares success. 
  
  Gameplay,
  The gameplay in Doom 3 is very basic for a FPS, it like the original Doom but with a very good 
 cote of paint. If you have been playing FPS games for a long time then you will recognise the gameplay, 
 for the most part is outdated but who ever said outdated gameplay cant be fun. Fun basically 
 describes everything to it; its a fun game but nothing more and nothing less. 
  
  Maybe one of the big reasons why Doom 3 is only just fun is because it gives up allot of the action 
 to try and scar you which it fails in. Its basically going into a room and a demon will just jump 
 out of nowhere and start acting you. After a few hours you will get used to it because the level 
 besiege is the same and its easy to predictable when an enemy will leap out at you. 
  
  Most of the single player campaign is just going though small corridors until you find a door that 
 leads to a room, you go in there kill all the enemies, pick up some ammo, look for a PDA to tell 
 you where to go next. Now doing that for twenty hours does get a bit boring.
  
  PDAs or Personal Data Assistant are what you will be picking up as you go though the campaign, 
 they tell you the combination to cabinets which store heal, armour and ammo and tell you some parts 
 of the storyline. You can listen to peoples voice recordings and read there emails. This slows 
 down an already slow-paced game and holds you back from the action. 
  
  Overall the lack of gameplay just makes Doom 3 seem like a graphics demo. 
  
  Graphics,
  
 The graphics are and will be the BEST for a long time to come. I do see developers using this engine 
 even into nex-gen. The real time shadows and lighting just blow me away. If you have the PC to 
 run Doom 3 youre in for a tret. Everything in this game just looks fantastic and it will keep 
 you playing just because you want to see more of what the graphics in this game can do. 
  
  No matter how good the graphics are we cant forget the fact that most of the environments look 
 the same and I think ID Software when a bit overboard with the blood and the weapons look stunning 
 aswell. 
  
  Sound,
  The sound in Doom 3 is better than most other FPS, hearing a demon scream as you blow it away with 
 a shotgun is fantastic to hear but the letdown is there is no soundtrack except in the menu and 
 at the end of the game if my memory is correct. The sound of the weapons is a bit disappointing, 
 they all sound very weak. 
  
  Value,
  The main campaign of Doom 3 is around 20 hours long and is a good campaign its just when you finish 
 it there is no reason to go back and play it again, so its time to go play some multiplayer. Once 
 you get into the multiplayer side of Doom 3 you will see there is nothing special to it. The multiplayer 
 just feels like a poor effort to keep people playing the game. 
  
  There is a huge mod community installed though, there are a large number of mods for download and 
 it does help the multiplayer but it doesnt save it.
  
  Overall,
  Doom 3 is a fun game with the best graphics of 2004, if you loved any of the original Dooms or 
 any other games created by ID Software then give this a try.
  
  P. S: sorry for the bad spelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIGAKILL
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 12, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is so thrilling I can barely play it. I have never played a game that has given me this 
 level of thrill. The graphics and lighting are the probably the best I have ever seen. The fact 
 that almost every single room in this game is nearly pitch black is awesome. I like the idea that 
 it wasn't necessarily zombies that attacked you but people who were possessed. This game also had 
 some well made demons. The story seems pretty typical for that type of situation, except these 
 people were possessed and not diseased like on zombie movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bullfrog55
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  The singleplayer was very exciting and had a medium length of levels that took a couple days to 
 beat, sadly the multiplayer hits the bricks. The multiplayer had almost no content at all except 
 the element of suprise (which you could hide in shadows, ect..) but the multiplayer was often slow 
 and got boring real fast. I would have spent more time on the MP if it had had Co-op like it's 
 brother on the XBOX. All I say is get the XBOX version before the PC version it runs alot smoother 
 on the XBOX often and it has Co-op, lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kreig_jones
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  this is the best fps i have played since Maxpayne .Thrilling is not the word for it, shockingly 
 addictive maybe. It's a nerve killer if played with headphones on in a quiet dark room. Some people 
 do complain it feels like a drag shooting endless streams of monsters and yes i have seem them 
 play . Yes they play like they have a bus to catch, hurrying through the corridors, shooting the 
 occasional imps, completing their objectives before lunch. That is not how its meant to be played 
 .DOOM 3 is an experience that you have to enjoy, like watching movie only youre in it inside all 
 the action. I remember while i was in early levels i tried to catch my breath by standing in a corner 
 ,the wall behind me gave way to an IMP & from then on i prefer standing in the middle of the room.
 
  JackpotDen said:
  "you can't see **** and the freaky things are coming after you!"
  
  here is what i learned while playind DOOM (and watching its timedemo)
  
  flashlight 
  IMP 
 jumping down from nowhere
  i grope for shotgun , shoot
  OK move on
  another IMP shoots fire
  strafe right , strafe left , fire , miss , strafe right , reload , 
 
  strafe left , shoot imp 
  this time no miss it was on my shoulders
  move on 
  dark dark .......
  a zombie scrached my back
  fumple over the keys for flashlight , found , 
 light ,see him
  take shotgun , fire, SCRATCH this time from side 
  while changing gun it has moved to my side 
  light again , saw 3 already scratching their hearts 
 out at me
  RUN hard as i can
  saw flickering wall light -  courage turned round , fired
  got them 
  saw the health .. 13 
  LOAD REPLAY ... health 33 .. satisfied (frustrated ??)
  
 carry on
  that's all dudz
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerjoe17
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Not necessarily for the gameplay aspects, but for the fact that my eyes and ears never went a moment 
 without being completely entertained. DOOM 3 is extremely immersive with about as perfect a presentation 
 as I've ever seen in a game. Visually, it has no peer at the moment. Even Far Cry's impressive 
 vistas and wonderful environments can't stand up to the artistic and technical might of this sensory 
 feast. Playing this on a 5.1 surround sound in the dark is an intense experience that, if possible, 
 must be enjoyed.
  
  
  Without the atmosphere, DOOM 3 is a plain shooter that hearkens back to those of the '90s. Certainly, 
 that's what id was trying to do, and they've done it. While I don't appreciate those types of shooters 
 as much as I used to, it didn't really matter. I was drawn in and addicted almost completely from 
 the moment that nameless marine arrived at Mars City to the moment the final credits began rolling.
 
  
  The original DOOM, when released in 1993 on DOS, helped to start a wave that swept PC gaming. First-person 
 shooters were still just a twinkle in the gaming industry's eye, and DOOM, while not the first 
 of them, really kicked the genre into high gear. Eleven years later, id has finished developing 
 its remake of the original game, this time with a state-of-the-art graphics engine and a lot of 
 talented people.
  
  It turns out, the first impressions I wrote the other day were not too far off to my final opinions 
 of the game. The shift in opinion was towards the positive however, mainly to do with the increasing 
 level of creepiness, the fact that the art actually kept getting better than it was at the beginning 
 and the pacing was very good. The action was fairly repetitive and AI was not the most impressive 
 (I'll get more into my thoughts about that in a minute) , but by the end of the game, I just didn't 
 care. I was having a great time being in that environment while mindlessly blasting mindless creatures.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurtus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  The question i ask unto you is the reason for the existance of Doom 3. My veiw is that the designers 
 where more interested in showcasing cutting edge textures and graphics then focusing on general 
 gameplay.
  
  My reasoning for this is that the world of Doom 3 is some what repetitive and plain. Yes, every 
 room that you step into unlocks scores of demonic looking creatures ready to rip your head at a 
 moments notice. And Yes every monster you run into sends shivers up your spine as you creep through 
 poorly lit passage ways. But having said that it seems that the produces have created a few levels 
 and repeated many times over to give the illiusion of a game that has greater length then what 
 it truly encompasses. 
  
  And again the story might've had more depth then just an experiment gone disasterously wrong, an 
 interlude that we've seen so many times before. A strong example for instance is Half-Life and 
 any 'true gamer' knows that tale. 
  
  My experience of this game is that when i finished a three hour session playing it, I could have 
 been fooled into thinking that i was going around in circles, if not for the suprisingly linear 
 level layouts and agonising 'start new level' screens. 
  
  Now i've reliesed after writing many a review that every man and his dog as an opinion. This one 
 of mine should not be taken lightly, this is a not a game that one could spend hours on end playing. 
 If an exciting FPS is what you seek, then try looking somewhere else. This is a game that can often 
 lead to utter bordem and frustration -it is clearly defined by its cutting edge graphics that even 
 one year down that track is still hard to match. 
  
  -signing off
  Tor' Truk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmare45
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, the graphics engine that it is running is stunningly one of the best i've ever 
 seen for PC. I actually like the PC version rather than the Xbox because not only graphic-wise, 
 but the multiplayer it supports. While the multiplayer gaming in Doom 3 is not great compared to 
 Halo 2 or any other great games, but it's better than just having a maximum of four players on 
 a single map. The Gameplay and the Sound are also very impressive to me. The creepy atmoshpere 
 when you walk into an empty room or down a dark hallway gives me the shivers. Plus there is nothing 
 better then hearing your shotgun blast hell into your enemies. The only thing that disappoints 
 me is the story line. The beginning is good, but then it died down as i progressed through the 
 game. Nonetheless, this is a game who wants the ultimate FPS experience should get this game now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  The game is quite dark and creepy, but you can get around all right. You have all of your arsenal 
 to protect you. The machine gun, the plasma gun, the rocket launcher, and the best one of them 
 all, the chainsaw.
  
  The game plays much like the other ones, but the story is not up to par with the technology. You 
 almost could say that you would expect that though, due to the level of attention to the technology. 
 The graphics system is supreme compared to other shooters out there. They are just fantastic. Th 
 sound is not up as high as the graphics, but the audio helps to create the feeling of tension and 
 fear.
  
  The reimagined version of the original game has a lot to offer, but the one place that it falls 
 short is the limited multiplayer option. A four-player multiplayer is not that impressive considering 
 the ability to play online. Oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvsqvc
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  It's not that Doom 3 was a bad game it's just the fact that it wasen't even remotely fun. At all. 
 The graphics are really the reason to get the game, if you have a good computer, if not then you'll 
 go threw some extremely agonizing frame rate for no point considering the game play will be even 
 worse then it already is. The game itself gets boring after half a level. This is mostly because 
 of the monster A. I. which just jumps out from behind and attacks or just teleports. Of course you 
 don't have to deal with retarded monster who do the same thing ALL THE TIME during multi player. 
 This is where it gets even worse! Only four players and no ctf. However they do have some mods 
 that are good like Co-Op. 
  
  For those who are classic Doom lovers, don't get this game, it's not worth it!
  Simply because 
 of the fact that it's not like the older ones, killing about twenty demons at a time and not two 
 or five. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMackin
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Ive recently played and beat Doom 3 and it wasnt all good, but is wasnt all bad. All of the creatures 
 in the game i thought were very well made. the graphics were pretty good and went well with the 
 game. I didnt like how much they tried to make the area dark. They went so much into it that they 
 messed it up, it was a nice touch but it failed. The weapon selection was very good and they all 
 looked nice. if you like the Doom series get this but if you dont, get something different like 
 Halo 2 or Resident Evil 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pkr1991
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Pros : 
  
  Graphics : One of the most graphic games out on pc up to date.
  
  Sounds : It sounds amazing on even the worst speaker system .There is no tense like hearing all 
 of the marine workers screaming.
  
  Gamplay : Works very well with any new video card thats either PCI-E or AGP
  
  Cons :
  
 
  Graphics : Good Graphic card required!!!
  
  Sounds : None
  
  Gameplay : Needs a good video card to have decent gameplay {needs a option for if you are running 
 a old graphic card}
  
  All in all this is a great game for anyone that just wants to sit down for a few hours and enjoy 
 a very unique old school gaming style with some of the best graphics around. Enjoy everyone i know 
 i did!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex143
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  after playing half life 2, farcry and FEAR i was quite looking forward to getting my teeth into 
 Doom 3 but ended up horribly disappointed. Doom 3 is one of the most frustrating games ive ever 
 played simply because it could be so much better. the grenades damage you, the shotgun is clunky 
 and slow, the pistol is equally slow, the machine gun is OK but completed ineffective and the mini 
 gun might aswell be from 1918 slow clunky and rubbish. the plain truth is the satisfaction and 
 power of the weapons is not there, however it is for your enemies who can shoot twice as fast as 
 you, even whilst being peppered with a minigun. the issue is that the graphics are great, but graphics 
 alone dont make a good game. 8.5 is very very generous in my book and i am going to get my money 
 back on this pile of squelch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banzino_gothic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 4:13 am PT
Review:  Doom3 is the beat game ever played really it kept me on the edge of my seat literally ,it even 
 kept looking every second at my health score by armor ,and every thing I kill I reload quickly 
 as possible scared that something will come up on me ,and each time I info trait a room or base 
 I kept looking at my ammo supply .doom3 is best played on midnight all it would be a waste of time 
 and should be plated at the highest level of diffculty. doom3 story is totally believable monsters 
 are in all kinds huge ,tinyand the best part in doom3 is you going to hell and facing the trouble 
 maker that open the **** hole hell gate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2x4b96123
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  DOOM3 has probably been one of the most anticipated games of 2004 which is one of the reasons I 
 was left dissapointed by it's 'fun at first' but repetitive gameplay and the repeated scare tactic 
 of monsters jumping out of the shadows. The horror aspect isn't as gory as I though it would be 
 either. What I expected were marines getting their torso's smashed open, random scientists, barely 
 alive with most of their organs missing strung up against a wall. In the scene that introduced 
 the hell knights I was expecting a guy to get his upper body torn off and eaten by the hellknight, 
 but no, he just get's thrown against a wall. Even though it's rated MA15+ Restricted in my country 
 it just doesn't seem to scare me or disturb me as much as some other games i've played.
  When I saw the size of the groups of demons I was gunning down It immediatly became apparent to 
 me of the difference between a remake and a re-imagining. The old gameplay mechanics just don't 
 mix well with the small groups of enemies, I would have much preffered marginally less detailed 
 but much larger groups of demons in more open areas like the original DOOM. 
  Story wise the game doesn't try and suprise too much. When i first laid eyes on Dr Krieger my mind 
 said "Don't trust the creep with the false eye" and a few seconds later "don't worry, they'll get 
 their product" I pretty much knew already just who it was that set the whole invasion up. 
  The graphics are verry pretty but not all that much to look at. Everything was either greay or 
 blue and if it was red it was dim light. It's just my opinion that having everything bathed in 
 a soft yet sinister pale red glow would have worked much better.
  
  The Sound it the only thing besides the graphics that i'll say is outstanding, Hearing the imp 
 screech somewhere out of the darkness is scarier than any gore the game throws at you.
  
  In the end it's a fun game that will keep you entertained for a few hours at a time, after that 
 it starts to become hard to play. It doesn't try anything new but the excecution of older gameplay 
 is done quite well. Buy this game if you want but I would recommend renting the xbox version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jodydfw
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry but anything with "Defender" or "Zelda" or "Wolfenstein" or "Doom" in the title is a 
 10. Wolfenstein is what got me into computers. I bought a $3,200 computer (my 1st computer!) when 
 "Wolf 3D" came out years ago just so I could play it. And then along comes Doom. Many sleepless 
 nights because it (as well as contributing to my ex-wife becoming my "ex". Honest!) . And then when 
 "Doom 2" got a street date I started scheduling my vacation days from work around it (there were 
 also a couple of sick days thrown in too!) . So when I found out Doom 3 was coming out... I'm sorry, 
 just remembering makes me farklempt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Doom 3, the game that revived the Doom series, isn't as it seems. Doom may be a too gentle word 
 to identify the intense gore and hardcore action in this game. This game represents the worst of 
 your nightmares, the bringer of death. That's why it's called a horror game, because it's meant 
 to give you the frights...
  
  I chose to play this game because of it's reputation. Let me tell you, the long and stressful hours 
 of playing Doom have gotten to my heart and made my life shorter with a few years. The horror is 
 so well immersed in the game's metal and rusty atmosphere that you just can't expect when you can 
 get ambushed by a monster. 
  
  First time I roamed the friendly and lifeless catwalks of the Mars Base, I was shocked and amazed 
 how deep Doom 3 can get under your skin. Once a monster jumped in my face, I gunned it down, waited 
 a couple of minutes and said to myself: "Ok, here I go again..."
  Ironic is the fact that the first time I played the game was at night, with the lights off.
  
 Some situations absolutely gave me nightmares. For example, I was walking towards an elevator and 
 this zombie in armour and holding a pistol came marching out with it's white eyes. 
  There is a particular type of monster in the game that never seizes to amaze you. It's also called 
 the Imp and it can hide anywhere. Mostly, you'll walk down a corridor and a secret door opens to 
 your right and an imp starts bashing at you like there's no tommorow. The most danger is behind 
 the doors. Once I walked towards a door and an imp litteraly jumped at me and started to claw me 
 down. Point is that this thing can come from everywhere, from between stairs, while you think you 
 run to safety, from even the floor and from the ceiling...
  Ah, I think I'm getting into a lot of details here so I'll shorten my words a little.
  
  Doom 
 3 is an amazing game that never seizes to relieve you of stress, which has already killed a few 
 cardiacs.... all this thanks to id Software...
  
  Just joking.... or am I? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zackattack784
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  Doom 3 is a typical first person shooter with nothing special on the gameplay side. You shoot stuff, 
 from a first person perspective thats basically all there is to it. The game is linear in path 
 with nothing going for it. Doom 3 rises above ordinary status with and incredibly scary atmosophere 
 that is top notch. Lights flickering, machines moving, dark corridors, heart beats. This game just 
 might make you wet your pants. Doom 3 does scary better than anyone else. It just cant be beat.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Couldn't be better. This game looks amazing. Nuff said.
  
  SOUND:
  Perfect. Sets the mood the the game perfectly.
  
  VALUE:
  I had no need to play the game 
 again and there is an ok online multiplayer, nothing special here.
  
  TILT:
  The mood this game creates earns bonus points with me.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS:
  If only there 
 had been a more thought out campaign. This game is worth picking up now that you can get it for 
 $30 or less. Just make sure you turn the sound up, turn off the lights, and shut your door. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  scary, creepy but delightful, though. I loved this game a lot infact, it gave another taste to the 
 mixture horror-adventure. graphically it's great. The graphic engin is outstanding and the game 
 play is all fun. the sound is terribly terrifying that you hear nothing and suddenly a zombie shows 
 up to scratch you up .. waw !! very creepy. That's the kind of games i've always been craving for 
 ... just buy it ! you'll never regret it !! one more advice : make sure you play it all by yourselves 
 at night and believe me, your heart will spit huge loads of blood and your body will freeze !!!!! 
 It happened to me i swear hhhhhhh !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franzman
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I'll describe this game very fast:
  
  It's like:
  "Hey, i'm on Mars, oh i have to go to an old part of the station, oh no, a crazy scientist is trapped, 
 oh no, he warns me about monsters, oh no, the army of the devil is apon us, oh no, i have to kill 
 them, oh no, i finished the game, yay!"
  
  That's basically it, it's a gorgeous game. But the idea is utter **** Enough said. I enjoyed this 
 game until the monsters came, afterwards it just got boring. I don't see any traces of the good 
 old Doom spirit. The brainless brain splattering actions, this is just a stupid wannabe "horror" 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIE_Elite_Pilot
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  ID has struck gold with their Doom series. I still play Doom 2 and 3 to this day, those games are 
 good, old-skoll fun, but Doom 3 doesnt quite make it.
  
  Graphically, this game is superb. The levels are beutiful . . . when you can see them. Most of 
 the time it seemed i was in pitch black going in circles. that gets old after about 5 minutes, 
 but be ready for what seems like hours in the dark. The creatures are excellent looking, and their 
 deaths always delightfully gory. The human character models are also very good, but have a strange 
 action-figure like look to them (i. e. they look like there made out of plastic, and there all as 
 big as Arnold Schwarzenegger, but they are Marines so that last part is fine)
  
  Sounds are rich, and add that final touch to the levels to keep you on the edge of you r seat waiting 
 for an ambush . . . but those never come till AFTER you get that damned health pack.
  
  I felt the gameplay was severly lacking. Weapons were underpowered, forcing you to club your way 
 through more of a level than anyone would prefer. And the non-stop "monster closets" get really 
 frigging annoying. Playing FPS's before you get it ingrained into you to a; ways grab the health, 
 this game exploits that basic instinct, and although clever, it gets annoying. Usually you'd heve 
 more health BEFORE you grabbed the pack than after the ambush. Multiplayer had a sort of bizarrely 
 slow pace. Once again the levels looked good, but that was about it.
  
  This ones a rent first then buy, if you can stand the constant wading around in the dark and Monster 
 Closets that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneaksiegarrett
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  To start out with, i don't know what reviewer tilt really means, but i think its saying how well 
 i am in favor of this game, so i chose an 8, because this game is not perfect. Secondly, the graphics 
 are impressive, but require you to have a good pc to enjoy to the fullest. (which i dont have unfortunetely.) 
 It is very runnable on a computer that complies with the minumum requirements for the game... However, 
 you will need to play on the lowest graphical settings to get a good framerate. But, i realized 
 after playing a really cool mod (that you should check out called Last Man Standing) that the game 
 can be runnable with most of the "advanced options" under graphics section in the options menu. (when 
 you arent playing with others) Actually, it was laggy so i disabled them for LMS, but for the singleplayer 
 campaign the game runs better. Its just when there are lots of action going on the game seems very 
 slow FPS wise. I give the gameplay a 9, simply because the story is well put together, and is geniunly 
 a scary game. But, i must point out the negatives as well, which include the poor flashlight system 
 in the game. If this was real life, i would tape a flashlight onto my gun to be more effective 
 in combat situations. Luckely, there are mods which address this factor, so all is not lost, and 
 also, i couldnt help but notice how the flashlight itself is really quite cheap. Not to mention 
 the fact that its quite annoying switching between a flashlight and a gun during battles. Also 
 for gameplay, most of the things implemented in this game are next-gen such as the "Star Trek" 
 type doors, but some are not. (such as the bathroom still has nobs for faucets and the toilet) 
 As for graphics, i can't give it a ten because i havent been able to play the game to its full 
 potential, but it seems the graphics are pretty dang good, but not perfect. As for sound, i have 
 problems with this as well. I have a troubleshootign problem beginning with the fact that i can't 
 enable EAX and i knwo my soundblaster Live 24 bit! will suffice; however doom 3 states when i try 
 to turn on eax that it couldnt detect hardware eax on my computer or some such statement..... So, 
 i cant hear the game the way it should be. Don't get me wrong though, the sound is great in terms 
 of ok quality, and the way they have sounds in the game. 
  To wrap up, the value of this game would be a 9, because its worth owning, but its not perfect 
 so i wouldnt give it a ten. The difficulty depends on your skills and what difficulty you choose, 
 but it seems fairly hard at points but not impossible. As for learning curve, it shouldnt take 
 you very long to understand the controls unless you are new to the FPS genre. ;) 
  Thank you for reading this, and I hope this may help some of you who are deciding to buy this game. (or 
 already have it and are just curious to hear other ppl's opinions.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukehu
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  This game, theoretically, is PERFECT!! perfect in graphics/sound, etc. It is NOT made for multiplayer... but 
 for single player. The game is quite realistic. A lot of details are considered. Includes every 
 bit of graphic details, sound, too. ....... ok.. enough with the good side....
  
  This game originally HAD quite a good reputation when it was just out. Reason being that most people 
 don't have the game yet (it is quite expensive) , and the fact (which ppl all know) that this is 
 the game that has the GREATEST system requirements. But, as time fly by, DOOM3's reputation has 
 been dropping. More and more people have the game. Many downloaded from the internet. The multiplayer 
 wasn't that well made. It is made FOR single player. Of course, for many people, a shooting game 
 wouldn't be fun without playing with other real people! Of course, for people who ARE interested 
 in the DOOM3 game's plot, this'd be an excellent game for them! 
  For me, I downloaded this game. I played the beginning part of the single player. I felt it was 
 quite realistic. But takes long, and kinda frustrating , especially when I have TONS of homework 
 from school! I want relaxing games! So, I eventually stoped playing it, tho still have it in my 
 computer, in case I wana play it again.... it's a HARD job getting the cracked version to work!!
 
  
  In conclusion, this game got it's "OK" ratings almost completely by its supreme graphics and sound! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Doom has been one of the best classics out there when it comes time to shooters. Its also been 
 dubbed with being the first FPS ever made. Over a decade has past since Doom first came out and 
 the FPS genre has taken a huge toll with being to straightforward of a genre. Its no longer acceptable 
 to have weapons that are direct point and shoot and instead people want weapons that are unique 
 and interesting, not basic. If you havent noticed by my introduction, Doom 3 is a straightforward 
 direct and shoot kind of shooter that doesnt go out of its way to do anything out of the ordinary. 
 It does look downright fantastic and is one of the most atmospheric games ever made, but apart 
 from this, it really isnt all that great and doesnt live up to its hype.
  
  Even Doom 3s story is pretty convoluted. It doesnt make any sense whatsoever and even the character 
 you play is enshrouded in mysteries. For starters, he doesnt talk at all, the most you get out 
 of this nameless, talk less marine is that he does have some facial impressions, but he has no 
 personality whatsoever. I personally hate when developers make the main character like this, as 
 its seen in quite a few other games too. Instead, what the developers want you to do is care for 
 other characters in the story, such as the evil scientist who is trying to bring Hell back to Mars 
 and then bring it to Earth. Thats pretty much what this whole game is about; Hellish creatures 
 coming at you and you shooting them are atmospherically scary locations. In the end though, Doom 
 3 just turns into a corridor crawl and it really isnt that scary.
  
  The main reason why Doom 3 isnt that scary is because how easy each monster goes down. The monsters 
 all look great, with tons of detail and look so creepy that there about as intimidating as foes 
 get, however with one or two shotgun blasts they can be taken down. So their bark is much worse 
 than their bite. 
  
  Doom 3s weaponry is pretty disappointing. Some of your weapons look downright cool, such as the 
 chaingun or the chainsaw, but they lack punch and really are just basic point and shoot weapons. 
 The Grenades are even pretty basic, just throw and they explode, there are no mines or anything. 
 You can tell this game is really behind the times just by the weaponry, although the chainsaw is 
 pretty fun to use. Its especially fun to see all your foes be ripped to shreds in front of your 
 face with the chainsaw. Doom 3 does have some interesting ideas, but apart from the amazing graphics, 
 it would have bee nice to see it branch out a bit more.
  
  Doom 3 uses lighting to great use. It does make a huge fault here too though. You get a standard 
 flashlight that for some reason, never runs out of battery, but this flashlight is just very standard 
 and the biggest problem is you cant even hold the gun and the flashlight at the same time, which 
 makes no sense whatsoever. You have to constantly switch between these two things and it gets annoying.
 
  
  The enemies you face all look great and come in many shapes and sizes. Some are just real basic 
 looking zombies, while others are terrifying spiders and Hellish looking monsters that come out 
 of nowhere. The game tries to creep you out and scare you with noises and shafts falling on the 
 ground and the usual, but in the end it just isnt all that scary.
  
  Of course, Doom 3 does have some class and thats in the form of the over the top amazing graphics. 
 Even on a low ended PC, the graphics on Doom 3 are just breathtaking. The textures show every bit 
 of detail and the use of lighting is one of the best Ive seen in a video game. I really love just 
 how gorgeous the game looks. Every monster and character moves in perfect animation and the monsters 
 especially look highly detailed and about as scary as it gets. Doom 3 might not have a lot of reasons 
 to play it, but if you are going to pick up the game, this is the reason to do it.
  
  Doom 3 does have a really long campaign. Were talking 15 hours easy although the replay value is 
 minimal. There isnt a whole lot of reason to go back and do it all again, especially since the 
 game is so repetitive that it could make you go numb.
  
  Throughout the journey of Mars, you will come across quite a few PDAs that you will unlock doors 
 and such for you. Then, another bad thing happens, you have to read these things and listen to 
 the messages. This is pretty boring, even though this will open locked doors and cossets that have 
 items you can use, it really isnt that much fun. You dont want to be reading messages; you want 
 to be shooting up some demons!
  
  Doom 3s sound is one of its few highlights. The music is sparse, but the creepy music that builds 
 as the tension does it a great effect, the voice acting is also worth applauding, although the 
 weapon sounds brings this down, the weapon sounds really are weak and underpowered, almost muffled.
 
  
  Once you finish the single player campaign, you can go try out the multiplayer portion of Doom 
 3 which is surprisingly lacking. Its just basically a 4 player deathmatch with more lag than in 
 the game. There are a handful of maps, although quite a few maps have been added since then, still 
 with PC games like Battlefield 2 and Unreal tournament 2004 out there, why would you want to play 
 this multiplayer that lags more than it should?
  
  If you havent figured it out yet, Doom 3 is just a recreation of the original Doom. Not even the 
 weapons have really been altered. The game is just a remake with superior graphics. If youre a 
 Doom fan, you might dig this game, but chances are it better serves as a rental with the Xbox version 
 that also has co-op on it too, since this probably isnt a game your going to be coming back to 
 all that much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemyth
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  It really hurts when someone like id makes a flop. Well Doom3 is a throwback to narrow corridors, 
 linear gameplay, and paper thin plot rapped up in a gorgeous engine and beautiful next generation 
 graphics. It just doesn't make the cut when compared with it's peers. You can't make a winning 
 game with graphics alone. The sound was weak and tinny, the maps were extremely linear and predictable. 
 The plot was as thin as you'd expect a Doom game to be. Overall it really kinda sucked. Multiplayer 
 too, 4 players?? Extremely small maps?? Nothing but standard deathmatch? Shouldn't have to wait 
 for the community to fix a game that was shipped by a top notch company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BruteDux
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Doom... certainly the most played game in the world! 1993 was marcked by the Doom launching. And 
 then we see Doom 2. Stunning graphics (Not now) , and great tecnology, it was the ID Software growing 
 up. Then... Quake... do I really need to describe this one? Then Quake 2... one of the best games 
 ever! Quake III... not so good... And then... DOOM 3. Great graphics (everybody knows that) , but 
 if you don't care to the graphics, you will see the essence of Doom 3, the energy that it passes 
 to the player... the fear and the scare together in a simple move. Flashlight + Pistol infortunatelly 
 it is not possible. But it is really possible to complete this game, it's tough when you get near 
 the Hell, because HellKnights start to apear everytime, in the worst momments, but it's "compleatable".
 
  Want a really good game? Buy this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 has opened the door to the First Person Shooter Horror games , its trully amazing and visually 
 impressive without mentioning is scary as horror movies should be this days , Doom gives a chance 
 to First Person Shooters to be not only fully action packed , but packed with psychological themes 
 of horror.
  
  You'll find yourself Jumping of your seat through out your first play through , also you will find 
 yourself amazed by the amazing environments created with ID's new graphics engine , though most 
 of the scenarios are dark you can still witness the awesomness of the game .
  
  Having to switch between your flashlight and weapons in dark environments and fights gives it a 
 touch of difficulty and terror of not knowing where your opponent is striking from.
  
  All the enemies are well detailed and all look awesome , overall this is one game you will remember 
 for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioHzrdSco
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:29 pm PT
Review:  The game has amzin graphics i have to say really really well done but well it lacks in depth imo, 
 At the start you are just thrown into the game you dont no why you were even sent there in the 
 first place and well if you havent played a doom game before like me then you have no clue. AS 
 for the game play its to repetitive walk into a corridor enemy spawns kill it there done walk on 
 its just the same all the way through to me its not a great game but other will argue it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:30 am PT
Review:  If there is one thing that Doom 3 does well, it is atmosphere. The game is a masterful piece of 
 shadowy work with lighting effects galore throughout the levels. Enemies will often hide in the 
 darkness, sometimes illuminated by nothing more than the muzzle flash of your machine gun. The 
 level design is claustrophobic with a heavy emphasis on tight passageways and narrow corridors. 
 Often, movement is at a premium, which only heightens the feeling of being trapped. 
  
  To help you navigate through the darkness, your character is given a flashlight at the start of 
 the game. The light can be used to illuminate any object or area in the game -- however, when you 
 are holding it you cannot also fire a weapon. One would think that a marine would be resourceful 
 enough to find a bit of duct tape and secure the flashlight to his gun, but hey, if we can suspend 
 disbelief long enough to allow for demons on Mars, we can overlook a little stupidity on the part 
 of the main character. 
  
  Switching between the flashlight and the active gun is done by way of a single key. There is however 
 a delay when swapping between the two. You will often find yourself shining a light, switching 
 to a weapon, firing a blind shot or two, and then switching back to the light, hoping that your 
 shots hit the target. Usually, there is a bloody stain on the floor to indicate success, though 
 you will occasionally turn on the light just in time to see a zombie lunging at your face. 
  
  Unlike its predecessors Doom 3 does not feature an automap function, but the lack of a map 
 is not a huge hindrance. Levels are linear in design, even when backtracking is required, so the 
 chances of getting lost are slim to none. This is a game where you are constantly being led forward. 
 You should never find yourself sitting somewhere wondering "What do I do now?" 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Part of the issue is that Doom 3's storyline and narrative technique are ineffectual. Since the 
 main character has no identity whatsoever (for whatever reason) , the game tries to get you interested 
 in everyone else on the base. You'll frequently find voice recordings and e-mail from various characters, 
 but not only is a lot of this stuff bone dry, having to stop and read or stand around and listen 
 to a rambling monologue jarringly disrupts the flow of the action. Unfortunately, if you choose 
 to focus on the action by ignoring the seemingly extraneous story elements, you'll find that some 
 of them aren't optional -- you'll need to sift through those e-mails and listen to some of those 
 voice recordings to get passcodes for locked doors and storage chests.
  
  For what it's worth, the game's premise seems very fleshed out, and the game gives an amazing first 
 impression. As you explore the UAC base, eavesdropping on various conversations and observing great, 
 little details here and there, you'll get the impression that Doom 3 takes place in a fully realized 
 world. Of course, all hell quickly breaks loose, and from that point onward you'll encounter scarce 
 few creatures that you won't want to instantly shoot. The premise of the game will continue to 
 unfold through occasional cutscenes and the aforementioned e-mails and recordings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indy00
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  Undoubtedly Doom 3 was one of the PC's most highly anticipated games and delivered on some of the 
 hype but ultimately failed on alot of it. The first thing that anyone will notice upon playing 
 Doom 3 is that the graphics are simply superb, there is no denying that the lighting and shading 
 effects are some of the best that have been seen to date. However, the engine isn't very lifelike. 
 Why is every object in the entire world in this game shiny and why is every character the most 
 muscular person that you've ever seen, and that includes the scientists. While Doom's engine is 
 great for making objects shiny it fails at making objects life like, something that Source has 
 done extremely well.
  
  Gameplay wise, Doom is definately fun... for about 5 minutes. After that point you start to figure 
 out the patterns of the game. You'll walk into a room and if you're not attacked by a zombie you 
 can be guranteed that there will be an Imp and even their spawn points are predictable. You can 
 almost gurantee that one Imp is going to be infront of you and the other will be behind you. After 
 you figure that out you'll also figure out that they only have one attack that is extremely easy 
 to avoid and considering that throughout most of the game you'll be battling nothing but these 
 Imps its hardly any fun as there really is no challenge. 
  
  Doom also features some really old level designs. The flow of the game seems to be that you enter 
 a room, the door to exit this room is locked, you'll kill a few enemies, find a key and unlock 
 the door only to do the same thing in the next room. While this wouldn't be so bad if it happened 
 a few times, every level in Doom follows this principle and considering that Doom has a fairly 
 lengthy campaign it makes for a boring game. Needless to say, finishing the game will seem more 
 like a chore and less like an exhilerating thrill ride like Fear or Half Life 2.
  
  However, Doom 3 isn't all bad. In the audio department Doom 3 takes an interesting decision and 
 decides not to have any real soundtrack worth writing about, save for a pretty good metal track 
 during the title and end sequence. Other than that Doom 3 relies on ambient sounds and some cool 
 padwork to paint a scene of tension and certainly immerses you in the world. This comes into play 
 very well with a surround sound system as you'll hear the shrieks of the various demons and they're 
 as loud as a banshee. Needless to say they look and sound terrifying. However, for some reason 
 your firearms just don't pack a punch sound wise. They seem kind of flat but with a stellar audio 
 performance on everything else it is hard to really notice this. Doom 3 definately plays better 
 on a system with surround sound as sound is such a key element of the game so users with surround 
 sound configurations will get an extra bonus from the game in that regard.
  
  Doom 3, while some character models don't make alot of sense (IE: Scientists) , has some of the 
 best character and boss models seen to date. The Imps are detailed to perfection and almost every 
 enemy that you'll come across will look terrifying. At times it is hard to grasp that these extremely 
 high polygon character models are all being rendered in real time. However, Doom 3 also has some 
 stellar weapon models along with an excellent array of weapons. You'll find the mandatory FPS guns 
 such as the Pistol, SMG, Shotgun but you'll also have a Plasma Rifle, Grenades, Mini-gun and of 
 course how could anyone forget the "Bio-Force" Gun (BFG) . Doom 3 really delivers on making these 
 firearms look and feel good and you'll definately be satisfied while using them.
  
  In terms of Efficiency Doom is demanding to say the least but it will run well on older systems. 
 The lowest card that could run it well would probably be either a 9600 or one from the FX line 
 of cards. Anything lower and an upgrade would probably be reccomended. However, Doom 3 still looks 
 very impressive on lower settings and though you might not get the absolute most crisp textures 
 you'll still be able to see the incredibly well detailed world of Doom 3.
  
  To wrap things up, Doom 3 definately is impressive from a technology standpoint and serves as an 
 excellent example of the power available these days for graphics. However, poor level design and 
 gameplay really ruin what could have been another great First Person Shooter. With a lackluster 
 campaign and a multiplayer mode that seems almost neglegted its hard to reccomend Doom 3 to PC 
 gamers when there are other excellent First Person Shooters that use the power of todays systems 
 along with new gameplay mechanics and level designs. If you're a hardcore Doom fan then buy Doom 
 3 but if you're just general First Person Shooter fan, save your money and look elsewhere because 
 you'll likely be dissappointed with Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer-hawk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  The game's graphics are top of the line but the only set back is that your PC must be top of the 
 line to play it.
  
  As far as I know, most people won't go out and buy new upgrades for their computer just to play 
 a game. Even though the game is very enjoyable, for a while. 
  
  Due to the fact that Doom 3 requires such great graphic cards most first time PC buyers most likely 
 won't have one, and they may need to upgrade to play doom 3. And believe me, the cards don't come 
 at a low price.
  
  But overall the game is very impressive and very enjoyable. I encourage people to buy it (especially 
 doom fans) and I hope you all have a great life.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hk-dude
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing the Game. The game was much better after using the "Duct Tape" Mod. It puts a 
 flashlight on your weapons. The weapons do not give you the sense of power as the original. The 
 shotgun disappoints as it was the best in the original. The game did give that scary feeling of 
 the original. Try the different mods. They really improve the game. I did not find the game easy, 
 but it was not too tough. Two of the boss battles I found very frustrating to win. I am not a Hard 
 Core gamer. There are better FPS out there, but this is worth playing. It just did not live up 
 to the hype or the ground breaking original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:29 am PT
Review:  No matter what people say about this game being too simple (as in not introducing revolutionary 
 FPS aspects) , they are taking themselves too seriously. Comparing every FPS to the likes of Half-Life 
 is foolish. The game is the 3rd installment in the Doom series, and anyone who is an experienced 
 gamer, regardless of genre, most likely have played the mostly plotless, kill them all, the original 
 Doom. The storyline may not be strong, but come on now, what did you expect from the Doom series. 
 If you want story you should've bough an adventure game like Alone in the Dark.
  
  This is about survival, killing anything that moves. Sure, I wonder about the fact that the game 
 takes place in the future, but all you have is a weak flashlight to light the dark corridors. Is 
 it just me, or do all space stations lack lighting purposefully (such as the Alien movies) so humans 
 can get frightened? Anyway, those considerations aside, the game is very straightforward and the 
 scare tactics gets old. Things to expect include if you get something important, expect more enemies 
 to spawn, especially when you're walking down a corridor. This gets old, but it does the job especially 
 when you're playing at night with all the lights off. The graphics engine nicely renders the indoor 
 environments, and its success is transfered over by Quake 4 and FEAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironpej
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 11:01 am PT
Review:  I thoroughly enjoyed this game. While there were moments were it did become repetitive (around 
 every corner, there's the boogeyman) , the games intensity, graphics, and playability was extreme. 
 The storyline in this game is better than the other DOOM versions which also added to the aura 
 that is Doom3. Too bad they didn't use the same guidance when they created the Doom movie. :)
 
  
  Pros:
  Great graphics, story-line, monsters, intense-factor, high heart rate
  
  Cons:
  Sometimes repetitive, damn that PDA
  
  Fun Factor:
  Very high. Not ideal for all 
 audiences but if you like getting scared, love horror movies, then this game is for you. Ideal 
 playing environment - bottle of scotch, candle-lit room, 5.1 or higher surround sound system, largest 
 monitor available.
  
  Great addition to anyone's library. Bring on QUAKE IV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CivicKid550
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Id software has done a wonderful job at recreating a DOOM masterpiece. This game has it all - zombies 
 to aliens to demons. While maybe not being as addicting as the first DOOM games, DOOM 3 is still 
 great fun and will make you jump at times. That's right, this DOOM is actually a bit scary. Id 
 software uses the element of suprise very well in the game and will have you on your best alert 
 level at all times while playing through the sci-fi environment. One thing that will stand out 
 are the incredible graphics. They are amazing! You will be thrilled (if you got a good system) 
 at the clarity and realism of these graphics. They are also amazing on the Xbox! This game is good 
 and should be played by PC gamers. It serves as a landmark for next-gen games.
  
  My System Recommendations: (At least)
  
  2.0ghz processor
  512MB RAM
  nVIDIA - GeForce 
 6600
  ATi - X1200
  XBOX! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: en-z-io
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 10, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved the original Doom games. I had played through them a countless number of times; 
 they were extremely re-playable - back then at least. Although Doom 3 isn't nearly as impressive, 
 it still brings plenty of entertainment to the table. But, this entertainment, for me at least, 
 needed to be taken in many chunks - the level design got quite repetitive and boring if played 
 for too long straight. Fortunately, Doom 3 provides a very good atmosphere for the player. Although 
 there are quite a few 'cheap' scares, much of the lighting and level design gives a great sense 
 of fear. Doom 3 doesn't have a great deal of replayability, but after a year or so of taking a 
 break from the game, it's not too bad to revisit. The game is pretty straightforward, and doesn't 
 offer much differenf t game-play from a lot othe other first person shooters out today, but luckily. 
 The entire game is average in length; it takes roughly 10-15 hours to complete. 
  
  The multi-player isn't all that impressive. If you purchase this game, it's definitely not for 
 this aspect; pick up Counter-Strike: Source if you want some fun-filled multiplayer First Person 
 Shooter action. There is just too small of a number of people playing the multi-player part of 
 the game. Added to that is the somewhat bland form of the game-play during multi-player; only a 
 handful of players are pitted against one another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bountydoom
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This is really the best Doom game ive played. Its great! Sometimes its just scary to kill the monsters 
 and to say alive. And I really think im in this world. Its creepy Not to mention that I even had 
 nightmares LMAO!
  
  The grapics are great! The sounds are very creepy. What more could you ask for? This is a great 
 game. But truly after awhile the shooting gets tired. But the story still keeps you going. 
  
  The bosses in the game come out so creepy you pee yourself lol. Some are so you huge you feel 
 that there bigger than you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: traumahawk_2003
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The game itself has awsome graphics, is challenging and spooky to boot. The major problem is you 
 get tired of the same old monster attacking and scaring you from behind the trap door scenario. 
 Also how can you fight what you can't see? I would say that 80% of the game is in the dark, and 
 if you don't cheat with duct tape, it's almost worthless to play. All of a sudden out of nowhere 
 is something biting you, you just can't see it in the dark. Overall I am saying it would be a great 
 game, if you could see it. I wish I had not purchased it. Compared to Halo, Unreal or Half life 
 I would say it's not worth the effort to play. If you do I gaurantee you'll cheat or quit playing. 
 Oh and by the way, no joysticks allowed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 700652948163
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:08 pm PT
Review:  A nasty, claustrophobic, tooth and nail fight 
  
  Science has mucked things up again by opening the gates to the unknown, and now only its you who 
 stands between Hell and Earth. A sci-fi horror masterpiece, DOOM 3 is like nothing you've ever 
 experienced. Dramatic storyline, pulse-pounding action, incredible graphics, and revolutionary 
 technology combine to draw you into the most frightening and gripping first person gaming experience. 
 Bad things about this game is the touch thing well the dark its to dark lol.
  I know of a lot of my friends find the game just dark the lighting should have been turned just 
 a bit. On saying that it helped me see a lot better by turning the gamma up a little on my graphics 
 card. In all very Terrifying Atmosphere one hell of a game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltfan469
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Good: The graphics on this game are incredible. I am scared to death when I play this game. The 
 lighting is excellent. This game interacts with the Xbox controller very well. One of the most 
 fun games of the era. Addictive and very very fun. Little cookies inside the game make it enjoyable 
 for Doom addicts and fans. The monsters look scary and real.
  
  Bad: Sometimes this game seems to be more of a horror movie then a video game.
  
  Bottom Line: 
 This could be one of the best games ever made. The monsters look real and are scary. You would 
 have to be insane not to be scared playing this game in the dark. Overall, it is like Halo action 
 in Hell. Masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine
  
  Believe it or not, my mom once punched Chuck Norris right in the face. Really. Chuck and his family 
 lived in my neighborhood in Los Angeles, and every year the local parents would get together and 
 do a big Halloween Haunted House full of fake cobwebs, grisly displays, spooky music, and volunteers 
 in rubber masks who hid in the shadows and jumped out at you.
  
  This was all great fun for a kidexcept for my youngest brother, who one year got too scared 
 and started crying. So my mom took him out a side door and through the back garden to get him out 
 quickly. What my mom didn't know was that the garden was still part of the tour, and Chuck Norris 
 was lurking behind a bush wearing a ninja suit. He leapt out in front of her, scaring her half 
 to death.
  
  So, flailing wildly, my kind mother socked him right in the kisser. I guess ninjas aren't always 
 so awesome.
  
  And clearly what's fun for kids isn't always fun for adults, but in the case of the Haunted House, 
 it turns out to be just as fun as ever in its most current binary form: Doom 3. This highly-anticipated 
 remake of the game that put fragging on the map is full of gory corpses, scary noises and monsters 
 that jump out at you. I've had great fun with it, especially with the lights out, and yes, occasionally 
 I've flailed wildly when something particularly unexpected and gross has leapt at me.
  
  Like a Haunted House, it's just scary for scary's sake without any real story. Why is the Disney 
 Haunted Mansion haunted? Errr someone died there, I guess. Pluto probably. As far as I 
 can make out in Doom 3, some sort of flaming skull is trying to take over Mars using the forces 
 of Hell. It's a bit like The Exorcist meets Total Recall, and it doesn't really make a damn bit 
 of sense.
  
  I think the story was grudgingly written after the game was already finished. I can practically 
 picture the scene in my mind: John Carmack calls Activision and says "Hey guys, it's all done. 
 It looks great and there are lots of scary demons to shoot. Woohoo! and the Activision exec says, 
 "Great! What's the storyline?"
  
  "Story?"
  
  Let me put it this way - as you play through the game, you will discover an unlikely series of 
 e-mails written by Mars base employees trying desperately to explain why there are hundreds of 
 chainsaws on the planet Mars. Chainsaw-wielding zombies, anyone? Anyone?
  
  Luckily, the plot doesn't need to make sense, because Doom 3 is really just a remake of the earlier 
 Doom games, which, as I recall, had no stories whatsoever. You just ran around in some scary corridors, 
 shooting demons and looking for the blue key. Doom 3 is exactly the same, only now the corridors 
 and demons look much, much cooler and the blue keys are dead people's PDAs that allow access to 
 different areas of the Mars base. Besides, most of the time you're playing Doom 3, you couldn't 
 care less about the story because you know something extremely scary is going to jump out at you 
 any second now and try to eat your face.
  
  The suspense is heightened by Doom 3's calling card: the gorgeous graphics. If you have the rig 
 to run it (ignore those minimum system requirements and start upgrading, by the way, especially 
 if you don't yet have Win 2000 or XP) , Doom 3 is an awesome experience. It's got all the bump-mapping 
 and rag-doll physics you'd expect from a high-end game these days, but most impressive is the lighting. 
 Rooms and corridors are filled with changing light sources, from swinging overhead lights and short-circuiting 
 wires to spinning sirens and imp-tossed fireballs. The effect is unrivaled; at times, Doom 3 feels 
 like an id Software tech demo.
  
  But the most important light source is your flashlight. Doom 3 is dark - very dark - and there's 
 no way to see what's lurking in the shadows without whipping out your electric torch. In perhaps 
 the game's most controversial design decision, you cannot use the flashlight and a gun at the same 
 time; you'll find yourself constantly switching back and forth between the two throughout the whole 
 game. To its credit, this heightens the sense of vulnerability and enhances the scare-factor, and 
 I think it generally works, but many gamers will find it frustrating and curse the total lack of 
 duct-tape on Mars that would enable you to strap your light to the front of your gun. Perhaps the 
 duct-tape shipment got mixed up with the chainsaw shipment.
  
  When you do pull out a gun, don't expect it to be particularly thrilling. The weapons in Doom 3 
 are merely updated versions of those found in the other Doom games, from the almost useless pistol 
 to the shotgun, chaingun and, of course, BFG. Oddly, the developers did not see fit to include 
 the now standard alternate fire ability, so don't expect any burst shot types or anything.
  
  The same holds true for the enemies, as the zombies, imps and demons are all redesigned versions 
 of the old Doom classics. That doesn't mean they aren't impressive, though. They look great and 
 move fluidly with deliberate, fiendish purpose. The A. I. hasn't improved as much as the graphics, 
 however, and while some demons will try to outflank you, they make little use of cover, and many 
 just run, scurry, fly, crawl or shamble straight towards you.
  
  But while Doom 3's gameplay sticks firmly to its roots, it's all done very well due to the high 
 level of polish and terrific feel. It's hard to describe exactly what makes the game feel so intuitive, 
 but when you combine the smooth control with the great scripting and chilling atmosphere, you get 
 a fun, unique, visceral experience.
  
  Much like the original Doom, the multiplayer game is pretty much an afterthought. There are only 
 a handful of maps and a few basic Deathmatch modes. Due to the insane graphics engine, the game 
 only supports up to four players at a time (yes, you read that correctly) , which among things makes 
 it hard to find a server with an empty slot. I think they included it merely to prove that their 
 new game engine could go multiplayer, because it's certainly not robust compared to what else is 
 out there.
  
  However, it's clear that the developers had a mission and a focus, and what might be lacking in 
 the plot and online departments is made up for by a gorgeous, exciting and genuinely scary single-player 
 experience. Id pretty much invented the first-person-shooter with Castle Wolfenstein 3D and Doom, 
 and though they haven't really changed their formula, at least it was a good one to begin with. 
 Some will surely sing the praises of this game without duly noting that it's actually quite typical 
 in its gameplay, but if you're ready for a good fright, pick up a copy and start peering nervously 
 into every dark corner. Just keep an eye out for Chuck Norris. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millerhelp11111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok great game sound effects are great when you here that scream in the dark your always wondering 
 were that zombie is and then you pull out that flashlight to see hes right in front of you then 
 you just shoot up a storm till it drops after you take that flashlight down. Each leval has you 
 on the edge of your seat your always wondering what will happen next it is a great game the erryness 
 of it is done great it made great it is great doom 3 the online is great fun ot play you play with 
 others but your still sencing the eeriness of doom 3 liek when you shoot a light out to hide in 
 the shawdows then attk the unsespecting player to death 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This review is for Doom 3 and The Resurrection of Evil Expansion Pack.
  
  Alright, so it's not scary, but at least make it fun. Hey, it was better than Half-Life 2.
  
 
  Gameplay: Standard FPS Stuff. Nothing new. Not creepy. Fun for a while, then boring. Decent variety 
 of better than average weapons. (6)
  
  Graphics: Glossy and repetitive. Maybe Doom 3 has some great graphics, if only I could see them. 
 Only a few enemy types. (9)
  
  Sound: It's alright I suppose. (7)
  
  Value: It's much longer than your average FPS. That isn't necessarily a good thing. The multiplayer 
 is average, in other words boring. (5)
  
  Tilt: Becomes extremely repetitive although it is fun at first. (6)
  
  The Good: Doom 3 isn't 
 very good, but at least it's not bad.
  
  The Bad: Doom 3 isn't bad it just isn't very good.
  
  Bottom Line: There are only five levels 
 in the game. FIVE! The longest level is a series of endless dark rooms and corridors. The second 
 is a dark Hell. The third, some dark underground ruins. The other levels are hardly worth mentioning 
 as they are so short you can beat them both in about 15 minutes. The fourth is a quick run through 
 some dark sewers and the fifth is brief excursion on the Martian surface. The game may be divided 
 up into dozens of sections, but there are still only three main levels plus two very tiny ones. 
 If the developers had shortened the first three levels and lengthened the last two I mentioned 
 and then added a bunch more it would have gone a long way toward making Doom 3 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldHorde
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:52 am PT
Review:  Not as skin-crawling creepy as I like for 'horror/suspense' genre games - but I was on a jumpy 
 edge a great deal of the time. I had to stop playing for 3 days after the woman whispered, "They 
 got my baby' n- took me that long to get my nerve back. The 'gotcha' in Hell was a great joke... but 
 not even remotely fair... I had worked very hard up to that point to be ready for anything except 
 what happened. Great for a one-time play on VETERAN but little value to play again. The ridiculous 
 OnlineDoom is no match for the fabulous Online Battlefield, MOH and Call of Duty comraderie romps. 
 But the single-play VETERAN DOOM3 is worth an 8.5... especially considering The Guardian destroyed 
 my game mouse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbfreak142
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start i have to say Doom 3 was a anticipated game in 2004. I myself waited in line around 
 like 12 am to get the game. Got home popped it in my CD-rom and started playing till 3am. I was 
 pumped with adrenaline playing the first 2 areas (levels kind of) . The graphics were amazing, i 
 also have to say that the Physics engine was good but i thought the Havoc 3.0 physics engine was 
 better. You hardly see the physics till you reach the farther levels. The exp pack seemed to have 
 a improved physics engine. Well to the levels review (area 1-2)
  
  Area 1:
  Well, you first start off in a hanger on the UAC complex on mars. You are a marina who has been 
 sent to mars because the UAC requested more Security personal. The hanger had some nice shadows. 
 Nothing fancy about the section. As you enter the base you stop at a scanning center. This is when 
 the graphics started getting neat. The soldier who was manning the computer and the equipment in 
 the scanning center seemed to be very detailed. I liked this very much. 
  
  After the scan you stop at a desk where a UAC personal hands you your Personal Date Assistant. 
 This was the first time i ever played a game with a PDA. In the game you can collect other UAC 
 or Military personal PDAs and read through there email, watch videos, and even get codes to unlock 
 doors and weapon lockers throughout the game. 
  
  You then enter another room where you can hear 2 of the important characters arguing about the 
 the safety of the complex. The textures both looked good. But as i contiued my seacrh, i could 
 conclude that this game would only have dark close combat indoor conflitcs. Wasn't that happy with 
 that but later on i fiqured out way the makers did this. The demons could job out at you easily. 
 Thus making the game scarier. 
  
  You pretty much just explore around the complex, but if you want to start playing , you would head 
 to the Marina HQ. Here you receive your orders. Find a missing scientist. Have fun
  
  Level 2. You start in the basement floor of the UAC complex. Here most of the workers are scared 
 to death from power outtages and the rate at which people are missing....... skipping details..... Finally 
 you find the scientist in the old comm tower. Here on the screens you see a portal of some sort. 
 Then all hell breaks lose...... dont wanna spoil it so buy the game to see what happens. 
  
  
  
  Tech review
  Graphics: The graphics were amazing. Probably one of the best GFX games 
 made this year. The gore and blood details were amazing. Some of the skins werent that good but 
 the mod community has made some nice skin mods.
  
  Sound: Not very happy about the sound. The gun sounds just don't have that kick. They sound underpowered. 
 Only the BFG and the chainsaw sound right. But dont lose hope. There are mods that change this. 
 
  
  Value: I thought Doom 3 was an excellent game for your money. If your the person who likes Sci-FI 
 horror games, then this is the game for you.
  
  Overall: Doom 3 may have its up and downs but the game play makes it one of the best games of 2004. 
 
  
  -Kevin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowsarecool
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 has some of best graphics on a pc game to date. but apart from the graphics, doom 3 is not 
 actually that good.
  
  Sound:
  The screams of the monsters and zombies are actually pretty good, but what put the mark down is 
 the sound that the weapons make. The shotgun and the chain-gun are probably some of the worst weapon 
 sounds ive heard.
  
  Graphics:
  Probably the best graphics ive seen on a pc game, and the game doesnt even need extremely high 
 system requirements! Everything has so much detail in them from the walls to the monters and characters.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Lots of people are saying that doom 3 is a really scary game. well their right, until you get up 
 to about the 5th level. When u first start playing, and all hell breakes lose, you would probably 
 be frightened by it becasue your'e not sure what to expect. But later on, you can just predict 
 whats going to happen (such as you can just tell that if you open this door theres going to be 
 some kind of monster behind it) . an example would be.... i see a person lying on his back on a control 
 panel, now this is doom and the obvious thing is the dead man will come alive and try to kill you, 
 and SURPRISE SURPRISE! he comes alive and takes a swipe at me, not very unexpected or scary.
  
  Length & story line:
  I think that the game doesn't have a very good story line. Its pretty 
 simple, Hell breaks lose on Mars. you don't really have any point in the game, and nearly all the 
 time you will be chasing some kind of unreachable squad because your stupid commando said that 
 u have to meet up with them, and when you finally reach them they have all been mauled by some 
 monster and the only time you will be playing another ai is a scientist with a light that gets 
 killed in about 1 minute. if you can be stuffed playing this until the end, you would be playing 
 it for a very long time.
  
  The levels in doom 3 are practically identicle (besides the levels in hell that is) . Every single 
 level, besides hell, look exactly the same, they dont introduce anything new in the levels. The 
 hell levels are obviously a lot different from the others, but even the levels in hell are the 
 same as one another.
  
  Weapons:
  In doom 3 you will come across around 9 weapons (if i counted right) . none of the guns are that 
 fun to use. they dont feel very powerful at all, mainly because the sounds they put in for them 
 are shockingly bad. Probably the only weapon you would have fun with is the chainsaw. its kinda 
 fun cutting up monsters and just leaving a bloody mess on the floor.
  
  So in conclusion, i dont recommend you buy this game unless you are in to mindless shooters that 
 dont have a point to them.
  
  Hope this review helped! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connordude64
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  A horror game, that's what this is supposed to be. It's pretty scary at some location. But there's 
 one thing it's missing, monsters looming at you. Some monsters come out slowly, warning you about 
 their approach. The sound, do I need to say more? It's SO good! It adds the effect, but it's even 
 better if you play in midnight, no lights excpet for your T. V. You could put headphones on and 
 crank it up! But whats makes this good is that no one is around to comfort you!
  
  The maps are pretty good, some are confusing! If you are looking ahead to Ultimate Doom and Doom 
 3? Buy the Collector's Edition for Doom 3! They include these old-school games, also some G4 videos 
 about the history of id Softare. Some sketches about the monsters they made. There is even a sketch 
 of a Spider Mastermind from Doom 3. But unfortuately, it was going to be in th game but noooo. 
 
  
  There is some hefty tricks in DOOM 3. Sometimes when you blast a monster with a grenade or a rocket. 
 They go straight in the air! There is some comedy in this games. I don't mean joke comedy. I mean 
 Physical comedy. But it takes a while to complete the puzzles, do me a favor, if you die or can't 
 find a solution to a puzzle, don't smash your controller or yourelf =D.
  
  One last warning, watch out for bathrooms! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarb001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  This is a fabulous game! Its extremely fun to play, in a freaky kind of way. The first word you 
 will say is wow. This uses a beast of a graphics engine and its just as amazing now as it was in 
 August 2004. The satisfaction of blasting a zombie's head in with a shotgun, combined with the 
 awesome graphics and the gore, makes you want to do it again and again in a rythmical fashion. 
 And the glorious sound! The sound of a zombie stumbling towards you and moaning, as well as the 
 occasional  trick, with the sounds seeming to 
 some from all around you, will make to cower fearfully inside the nearest bathroom. The only bad 
 things I can say is that the game can get repetetive, and that the multiplayer sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cherrybomb7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 4:42 pm PT
Review:  it rocks cuz its so bad ass killing demons on mars its so much  
 laugh out loud!!!! it fircken rocks ! like going la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la 
 la la la la la la la la la la la lala la la la la la in hell killling cyber demon cyber demon cyber 
 demon cyber demon he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he 
 he he he he hehe he he he he he he he he he he aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa 
 aaa aaaaaaaaaa eww that guy on cileing showing his guts yummy ultimate helath boost!* tasted like 
 chicken lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  Where the HELL did they release this game from, the portals of hell it self probley.
  
  This game was more up beat then the original doom games that they made in the past.
  
  The 
 scary thing about this game was the flickkering of the flash light, you can only hold one thing 
 at a time, and if your holding the flash light and you hear some thing, you very quickly change 
 from Light to GUN, but you can see where the demon is.
  So once again you put the gun away and switch back to your light, as as soon as you do, the demon 
 JUMPS on top of you, making your hear pulse beat some what faster then ever, panicing on the keys 
 to select your GUN, just to blow the demon in to orbit.
  
  The game was so cleverly done with brilient graphics, which made this 3D game, stand out alot more 
 thena the old doom games.
  
  Though the ORINIGNAL dooms where very good, but this one brings you closer to the game and fighting 
 the scary demon.
  
  it had me panicing every time i looked around the next corner.
  
  EVEN the mutliplayer matchs where very good.
  
  WARNING: never play this game in the DARK and 
 never play this game with LOUD speakers behind you.
  Always checking over my sholder to sit whats there. Breathing behind my back.
  
  Then a DEMON 
 jumps out and then hides again.
  
  So gald they made the DOOM MOVIE, made this game stand out alot more, making people think about 
 buying this game along with the E. Pack.
  
  Don't play this game alone.. !!!!!!! 
  
  STAY ALIVE, STAY ALERT AND STAY EQUIPPED ALL TIMES SOLDIER.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Eagle_2004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:25 am PT
Review:  Storyline: You play as a marine that gets sent to Mars to replace recruits that oddly disappeared. 
 Once you get there you get orders to meet your NCO and he sends to find a scientist and once you 
 find him, pretty much all hell breaks lose, literally. 
  
  Gameplay: Pretty much of what you can expect from any first person shooter game except you get 
 to kill demons. You will have a variety of weapons like your pistol, shotgun, and machine gun but 
 further into the game you will find the Plasma gun and the BFG 9000. You will get the ultimate 
 weapon called the Soulcube that will need to use at the end of the game but you can use it on any 
 enemy you want especially the tougher ones. Most of the time you will be in the dark and you will 
 have your trusty flashlight to help you out but I suggest that you download the duct tape mod so 
 you can have a flashlight on your weapons. And you won't have to switch from your flashlight to 
 your weapon as often. There are a few puzzles but not as many cause most of the time you will be 
 opening doors and blasting demons. 
  
  Graphics: It depends if you got a good system or not. If you do then graphics will be top of the 
 line. 
  
  Sound: The sound is great especially if you have surround sound. You will hear different noises 
 and that would make you jump, like parts of the ceiling falling down or voices talking to you when 
 no one is there. The voice acting was also great, they really took there time to make it an excellent 
 performance. 
  
  Doom 3 is a remake of the original Doom this is not a sequel. The 3 means it's on a new engine 
 of course. Anyways, Doom 3 isn't really that scary in my point of view there are a few moments 
 that made me jump but it happens when I don't expect it. Plus it's a long game like about 12 hours 
 worth. If you have the time and patience you probably can beat it in one day. This is one of my 
 favorite games since it first came out and still is my favorite. So if you got a good system to 
 play it on I suggest this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guildsander
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:25 am PT
Review:  Doom3 is the game were you could be scared to death, because the monsters just jump out of nowere 
 in the dark. The scariest levels in Doom3 are the hell levels where you have to kill the hell guardian 
 and get the soul cube. The soul cube will be a weapon in the game after you finish the levels in 
 hell. If you kill a monster with the soul cube you will get all its health.
  
  The weapons in the game are very good. My favourite is the BFG9000. That weapon has very much fire 
 power and it could kill 10 enemies in one room with just 1 shot. The shotgun is good if close combat. 
 When some times enemies jump out in front of you use the shotgun to kill it whit 1 shot. The plasma 
 gun is also good becaise it makes light into the dark and it kills good to.
  
  The final battle is very hard. The boss you have to kill is 10 times the sise of you. There are 
 also other monster s with it who will try to kill you. 
  You have to kill the other monsters and then use the soul cube and shoot it against the boss, do 
 that five timesand you have killed the boss.
  There are also battles with strong monsters in the middle of the game. one battle is with a giant 
 spider who will not dye so easily. Before the hell levels there is a battle with two big imps who 
 will shoot green fireballs at you. the best way to kill them is to use the rocketlauncher.
  
  In the middle of the game you eill have to kill lot of cyber skeletons who will shoot rockets 
 at you, the are quite hard to kill. You also have to kill pinky demons who are big like cows.
 
  The most anoing monsters are the zombies. Some come running at you other come walking very slowly 
 at you. The worst about them is that the attack in big numbers, but thats ok because there easy 
 to kill.
  
  Doom3 is a good game so look for it in the store!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dano78
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a facinating 1st person shooter with a futuristic twist from it's cousin Doom 2. Unlike 
 Doom 2 you are stationed on planet mars in the future and naturally just after you arrive, all 
 hell breaks loose. And all hell, litteraly. You fight several different Zombies, Monsters and other 
 creatures with alot of the weponry that was famous in Doom2. There are plenty of levels (though 
 too many alike and too far apart in my opinion) with an aray of different tasks that need to be 
 completed. The graphics and sound in this game are absolutely amazing, it just cannot be explained. 
 This game can be very addictive as you want to push to move further thinking the exit is just around 
 the corner. This game is very challenging, even set to the most novice setting can give a veteran 
 gammer a smack around a bit. Unaffortunately, you must completely beat the game in order to unlock 
 the insanely hard setting for a monster galore blast-a-thon bloodbath, which is a major bummer. 
 
  Though there is always a down side to every game. Repetition. It seems as though after a few levels 
 you'll have the Zombies and such figured out quickly. They do have a routine but sometimes can 
 be unpredictable. Also it seems as if you're going nowhere as alot of the levels start looking 
 alike and it's hard to tell if you'll EVER get any progress. Also there are some levels that do 
 take quite a long time to pass and if you're like me you won't quit in the middle of a level but 
 find time hard pressed to sit to attempt to complete some levels. The multi-play is kinda dull 
 as it's more or less a deathmatch race to the last standing and limited to either 4 or 6 (?) players 
 online. Considering the graphics levels and sound quality, it's probably best not played but by 
 a lan network. 
  Overall it's a GREAT game and definately (in my opinion) has lived up to the expectations set forth 
 by the developer. The price is certainly right and I do also believe there is an expansion pak 
 already out (I have yet to play this) and I expect it to be even better. If you're into gory 1st 
 person shooters with a mix of futuristic Mars and a bit of Hell brought to life, this would be 
 the game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floering
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Another great game from Carmack, and after waiting for many years, I am very pleased with the result. 
 I cam tell you that I had very high expectations for this game after all the press coverage it 
 was getting, and I can say without a doubt that it lived up to the hype. The graphics are amazing 
 and the environment is amazingly immersive. I remember jumping from my seat a few times as a monster 
 scared the crap out of me as it jumped from its hiding place. Then, with immense pleasure, I dispatched 
 it with extreme prejudice as my heart was pounding with adrenaline. Single player FPS games don't 
 get any better than this when it comes to raw suspense and excitement. (If you are looking for 
 a multiplayer FPS, I would go with UT or Battlefield 2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djosh
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:23 am PT
Review:  This is a great game that has great graphics, gameplay, and sound, but it is not what it was hyped 
 up to be. The game itself is good the first time through, but gets a little repetitve and looses 
 its edge the seond time. Even on harder dificulties it is mostly a one time through game. Compared 
 with the older dooms, this doesn't even come close to the replay value, or even the fun in general. 
 I think they were going to much for a horror game and not as much a FPS. Also the multiplayer is 
 completely a waste. Even with the expansion it kinda just sucks... Don't even bother and play something 
 else for multiplayer because this game completely lacks in that area. In the end I would say a 
 good game if you have the time, money, and computer but other than that go with better things like 
 half life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CuteKiller
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:08 am PT
Review:  Hey here comes the game that has fame. Ya Doom , Doom II and now Doom III,, Great Great Great, 
 this game has everything that a game should have. A great story, and great weapons. Graphics are 
 mind blowing and yes PC blowing too. Great sounds and effects are cool. Enviroment is a boost in 
 this game. Everything so well placed . Weapons are so cool, this game gets one person to top of 
 hell. A must play. 
  
  U are a marine working on mars U will get a PDA thats great thing, and lots of people working 
 until everything goes wrong then demons here and there , anywhere u just keep slowing due to demon 
 fear. Life too short and so makes the game exiciting. If u want to enjoy the thrill never use cheats 
 for this game. Its much horrifying when u know u can die anytime with no ammo and armor. Overall 
 the best game ever made in first person shooter history. No.1 game dude!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsaltWeapon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I pwned this game in 11 hours on diffacult ,.. i liked everything except im not a big fan of wierd 
 creatures ... but this is a keeper .. and it IS BETTER than F. E. A. R. ........ F. E. A. R never made 
 me say "oh' sh_t" once i was jumping out of my skin on this game ! i beat fear in 5 hours flat..
 
  Buy it you will like it .... it wont suck..............
  only thing you wont like is it is very reputitious ,.. seems like your doing the samething over 
 an over .. sound is awsome .. grafics good,.. weapons are good ,.. story line is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  First off the story is a great mix of a mystery about strange scientific experiments and the war 
 of evil vs. good. 
  The gameplay features some best horror moments, that will give someone nightmares. There won`t 
 be hordes of enemy to fight like in original DOOM, but some or one of them. But don`t let you confuse 
 that - every single enemy is dangerous. Even a single Lost soul or Cherub that looks cute can rip 
 you apart, if you aren`t careful. This is not HL2, where you have that suit that protects you well 
 -
  here you have only basic armor and the rest lies on that, how tactical and intelligent are you. 
 Everything relies on surprises - the enemies will pop out from unimaginable locations (therefor 
 - always watch your back!) . Also, there is a lot of blood on a floor on every level and other disturbing 
 "events" so this game has extreme violence. You will sometimes have hallucinations that will scare 
 you even more.
  
  The graphics are just fantastic and interesting - every enemy is detailed to its muscles, environment 
 is good detailed, great anti-aliasing and effects but everything is somewhat dark. 
  Sounds are also creepy, but there will be no sounds, that come from afar - everything will be pretty 
 quiet expect the working machines and later "demon songs" - it will make you fell you are coming 
 to something big.
  
  Multiplayer is a plus here ( some people even scare each other) .
  
  My conclusion is that if you love shooting monsters and you like horror then this is definitely 
 a game for you.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colt-commander
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:29 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is absolutely amazing from listening to audio recordings on your PDA to being stuck 
 in a room with a massive Hell Knight bashing away at the door.
  The graphics are the best i've seen for a FPS game great lighting effects in the game aswell.
 
  The sound effects were truly great as well from hearing a man eating away at another's corpse 
 to massive explosions echoing throughout the room.
  The only thing i have found this game lacked was the multyplayer system it seemed like just another 
 Unreal Championship when it came to multyplayer and these days people are looking for good multyplayer 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IOtchuro
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:00 am PT
Review:  Well for one thing Doom 3 is awesome!
  The very fact of not having any flash lights on a gun, increases the fright factor. And a weak 
 flashlight makes go forward to see. And of course the Ai is easy to fight againist cause it's Ai! 
 PLUS THE PDA IS ABSOLUTLEY AWESOME!! Becasue you have to stop, look at it. read. And besides the 
 audio files still play outside of the pda. so you can still keep fighting! 
  AND THE SENTRY DROIDS shoot a machine gun! like the one you have, only inside it's body! If you 
 listen to the sound they're pracitcally the same, And they kill at the same speed! I think you 
 guys should look at the game a little more closley then you did before! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lianqing
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:29 am PT
Review:  As a student of neuroscience, I have to say that everything happening in doom 3 is not very far 
 away from now. I predict it will happen in 50 years or so. So playing doom 3 give you an experience 
 of the future. 
  I recommend this title to everyone who wants to know if doom 3 is worth playing or not, Ignore 
 those negetive reviews of doom 3, what these reviewers need is killing, nothing more. 
  The game is not that easy and I doubt anyone can complete it without cheats at the veteran level. 
 The graphics is perfect. What's amazing is it can run fairly well in entry-level video cards such 
 as GeForce 4 MX or even Intel Extreme 2 if the resolution is set low and special effects turned 
 off.
  The gameplay is solid if you read every email and listen every audio logs in the PDA. The sound 
 is also impressive, especially that in hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvgeoster
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:20 am PT
Review:  I promise you almost certanly the people who made this were mad. Ok i'll give it some credit it 
 could scare a little boy but otherwise go buy Half Life 2. Graphics thumbs up, Ineractivity go 
 try Deus Ex and you will see, sound gets thumbs up, value Thumbs down. basicaly only good at night 
 to scare your girlfriend sily . So overall this is a total letdown./i bring up my question "What 
 the Hell went wrong? try halflife 2 deus ex halo or something else for gods sake. Or If you can 
 find it for 5 then it would be good but come on? Try again Doom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellogamers
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 3:02 am PT
Review:  A classic... great graphics but need more full on action not just single to a few enemies..
  
  This is an 'instant classic' but one that could of been better done, yes the graphic are awesome 
 but the sound and gameplay needs more. First the graphics, and my god do i love the engine that 
 drives it... time well spent making id. but as overwhelming as the graphics are the gameplay is 
 a little let downing. Eventualy it becomes quite predictable with zombies walking out of corners 
 and imps jumping out as you walk around a corner or down the hallway vent. The sound is good with 
 a good cast of voice-acting but if you move on while getting a message sometimes it will be lost 
 because of battle. The enviroment are a bit repetitive being all hallways and a few store rooms, 
 hopefully the expansion pack (resurrection of evil) will expand on the eviroments and have more 
 viarity. 
  
  While beening a bit more lengthy then the average shooter once you finish the single-player campaige 
 there doesn't appear much reason to play again which is a let down again. Id could of put some 
 more music in (the only song is the one at the main menue, while not a bad song) even some nice 
 jolts of music as imps leap out of the dark ( i believe Quake 4 has jolts of sharp music in it 
 to almost mock doom 3 "whats behind the door" scare tactics... but doom 3 has ceated a new way 
 of graphic (which could benifit ATI and their shader graphics gamble) which creat a deep atmosphere 
 for scary games but could doom 3 engine creat graphics for games like Mario?
  I may love the graphics but i think the could of been used better if only by a little. I'd like 
 to have seen a little bit of a 'all out war' in doom 3, without giving away the ending so dont 
 read on if you haven't finished doom 3... when the troops come to mars a good old shoot-out would 
 be fun which brings me to my next point why the hell for the whole game do you have to go alone! 
 im not saying this because im scare but because it gets boring... a little bit of co-op would be 
 fun and a couple hundred imps and hell knights and some more featers on the guns..... to many guns 
 the same i mean arnt theey the leading force in technology put a light on the machine gun a least 
 (even though theres a mod that does that) .
  
  If your looking for a great game thats hart thumping and awesome graphics doom 3 is for you, if 
 your scared of your own shadow or like a lot of replay value or both doom's not for you. Seems 
 Quake 4 is using doom 3 egine lets see how it shapes out ( seems Raven's making it itcould be quite 
 good) and whether it use Shadows like doom or bright lights and how good the engine works with 
 this game... from all report great but i've heard a lot of problems with the layers and lag... 
 any way thats it from me... 4 out of 5 for me or if you want 8.2, great game great graphics but 
 sounds and eviroment need work. If you can get for $50 (in australia) buy it as its not to much 
 but anymore then $75 dont bother as the game isnt that long and doesnt have much replay value. 
 Enjoy it.... might mention though to people ho have finished doom (stop reading if you havent) 
 that the last boss is easy as imps, whats up with that? did id get bored and finished quikly or 
 what... disappointing. 
  
  Hellogamers out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennie64
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 4:06 am PT
Review:  Oh man, I played this game so many times, try it at night, that works best. Seriously, this game 
 is so scary, that you'll just won't turn off your computer, even when you have to sleep. But that's 
 the problem, you just can't sleep when you played this game! Graphics are superb, but I'm dissapointed 
 about the fact that you need a BIG graphics accelerator to play this game. The gameplay is cool, 
 especially that you can 'zoom' in on the enviroment, with the 'z' button, you'll never use that, 
 but it is cool. Doom3 set yet again the standard for all of the horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and I had a lot of fun playing this game.
  
  Gameplay: You play as a soldier on mars and you mission is too kick some deamon's butt. You have 
 some cool weapons and the areas are very interesting but the problem is that this game is to damb 
 hard.
  
  Graphics: The areas in this game are beautiful and spooky. The weapons are great and the players 
 look perfect.
  
  Sound: You have this great sound of zombies attacking you and building crashing which are great.
 
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game on the hardest difficultys. The 
 storyline is very long and the online feature is very fun.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is a great game for those who love some hard work and this game 
 isn't for kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyjolnir
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 what a huge jump from the other Doom games. It has extreme graphics and physics and has 
 a tremendous amout of detail. The effort id Software put into this masterpiece was efficient and 
 well done. 
  What I didn't like about the game play of the game was that you don't get any human military help 
 (i. e. you only meet scientists and bots) . I'm not saying that they aren't good but some other human 
 contact would be good. I felt that I was doing all the work, which is a feeling that isn't always 
 good in games.
  I also thought that the scientific points of the game weren't explained enough. I always asked 
 myself: Who? When? Where? What? Why? How? They don't explain what exactly happened to unleash the 
 evil. Maybe it will be explained in Ressurection of Evil, but from what I hear, it also lacks background 
 information. 
  I also wanted to know how this monsters came to be and how they achieved their powers in the other 
 dimension: Hell.
  Otherwise, I enjoyed extremeley this game. Shooting, blowing or cutting up these atrocities was 
 an extraordinary experience! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fecalproduction
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:47 am PT
Review:  What can you say about doom 3 in a short paragraph ... well mostly that it is an awesome game and 
 plays great ... one of the best fps games out there besides maybe doom, doom II or ultimate doom. 
 Although i do have a couple gripes that i'll let you know about. Firstly, the game is very processor 
 intensive and i had to put a new graphics card in my pc to get it running at a good frame rate. 
 I installed a radeon 9250 with 256 mb ram. even then this game runs best in medium quality mode 
 (although it still looks great) . But for the same money i could have bought a new x-box and the 
 doom 3 game for it! For this reason i am going to leave the value rating at 7. Secondly, the game 
 is dark ... very dark. Now this leads to the creation of a very spooky environment, but some of 
 the bad guys are more heard than seen and some you can only tell are there through sounds or by 
 them hitting you with their weapons. On the good side, the player is equipped with a flashlight 
 to light up these dark areas. This also build anticipation throughout the game because when you 
 have your flashlight equipped you can not have a weapon equipped. there are some moments in this 
 game that really make the player jump out of his or her pants. i like that the makers kept a lot 
 of the classic elements of doom such as the beserker, the shotgun, the aquisition of keys to progress, 
 the guys that throw the flaming balls at ya'. a great feature they added was the ability to slow 
 down time. this is a great moment graphically when time slows down and you are able to run circles 
 around the bad guys. the new game also took the original storyline to the next level. i also liked 
 the linearity of the game. although doom 3 is hard, i never had to consult a walkthrough to finish 
 the game. the levels led naturally to their conclusions and i never got frustrated trying to finish 
 a level. replayability is very strong for this title. graphics are fantastic. sound is super. all 
 of the aspects of this game make it a real hair raiser and one that any fps lover will enjoy. i 
 played the old doom games for a long time and this game was definitley worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aifo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 3:33 am PT
Review:  Because what makes this game live is its graphics doom3 is aging very fast.
  It will give you a very good impression at first, you'll go like "what the ***!! I can't believe 
 gamespot gave it an 8.5". But soon you'll realize that 8.5 is more than what it really deserves.
 
  Let me tell you, if this game was to come out in 2005, it wouln't get more than a "6".
  The graphics are incredible for a shader model 2 game. and i guess that's about it.
  This game 
 is very popular because it came out very early with it's impressive graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomgamer90
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an instant classic that redefines the FPS genre with groundbreaking graphics, amazing 
 AI, intense multiplayer, and a well developed storyline. Doom 3 will scare the pants off of you 
 or wet them. Doom 3 has cool demons and monsters to fight, a variety of sweet weapons, and cool 
 multiplayer modes. Doom 3 is a visual showcase that plays as good as it looks! There is one major 
 downfall though; almost all or atleast 3/4 of the game is played in the dark so you have to use 
 a flashlight. This may not seem bad but the major issue is you can't hold a weapon and flashlight 
 at the same time, therefore you must cycle between flashlight and gun very quickly in order to 
 survive. Amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G4mbl3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3, the legendary successor to the immensely successful Doom 2 : Hell on Earth. What more to 
 say. You've heard of the game, you're heard of it's title so let's just break it down to the point. 
 
  
  Gameplay - This is no Unreal Tournament. Doom 3 is a really slow corridor crawler. While there 
 is plenty of action, it's mostly the atmosphere that seems to slow everything down. The atmosphere 
 itself makes the whole game. The slow crawls really mounts the tension and when you let your guard 
 down, you are suddenly surprised. While this is an extremely cheap scare tactic, it works really 
 well, let me tell you. The gameplay is a tried and true Doom formula. Head into a room and blast 
 everything in sight and head over to point B in an extremely linear fasion. While some people like 
 this because of the lack of finding out where the hell to go next, the people like me will find 
 it frustrating that everything is already laid out in front of you.
  
  The actual action is great. The guns are surprisingly the only let down. All the guns don't really 
 seem... what's the word to say... POWERFUL enough. The Machine Gun seems like a BB gun and the pistol 
 a pea shooter. The shotgun has no oomph to it at all. The BFG just doesn't sound as powerful as 
 it looks either. 
  
  Graphics - One word : amazing. This is still one of the best looking games to date. Everything 
 looks highly realistic, even the character models which some people say looks too plasticy but 
 I find just great. One thing that it does quite remarkably is the lighting. Everything casts its 
 own shadow and the player model (read : you) also casts a shadow. It's really something I can't 
 explain but have to experiance yourself. 
  
  Sound - As I have already adressed above, the sound of the guns are the only letdown. Then why 
 the hell am I giving sound a 10? Mods. There are tons of custom mods that gives you awsome gun 
 sounds. They really work well with the game. The ambient sound is also superb. Everything to the 
 slight humming of machinery to the sudden growl of an Imp is awsome. 
  
  Value - Once you beat the game, there are a few hidden secrets to find but not much. While the 
 multiplayer is just your standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, etc. the real shining value comes 
 from the community. There are over 50 mods you can play from co-op multiplayer on D3 maps to whole 
 single player levels. I really love that id has such a strong following which creates some really 
 good mods. While it still is no match to Half Life + Half Life 2 mods, there's still some fun found 
 in this package. 
  
  Tilt - All in all, Doom 3 has it's shortcomings on repetitive, linear gameplay but the visuals, 
 sound and mod community make up for it. Now's the time to check it out as there is a demo availible 
 and Doom 3 is now only $20 (US) . 
  
  Finally, let me add in something. I played this game on :
  
  GeForce 5200 FX 128 MB VRam 
 
  AMD Athlon 3200+ 64
  512 MB DDR 2700 Ram
  MS XP SP2
  
  The settings were : 1024x786 and High. The D3 engine is really optomized for even aging hardware 
 to play it on. For even more perfomance boost, check out this site :
  
  http://www. tweakguides. com/Doom3_1. html
  
  Thanks for reading.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekkenman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Doon 3 has to be one of the best horror fsp made. The graphics are of some of the best iv ever seen 
 for pc. The gameplay is great too, the envirements and settings are simply so well done. Also im pretty 
 sure that this is probably the scariest game made, and they did an extremely well jobe on the details 
 and sound efects on the monsters. The style is also extremely well done, I dont think iv seen a game 
 this scary, when i played sillent hill 4 that was a pretty danm scary game but DOOM 3, now thats 
 a different story. The wepons are amazing too ,The story line was also guud too, the only thing 
 i dont really like is that you cant hold ur flash light and gun at the same time, so it gets alitle 
 anoying to have to switch between gun and flashlite 24seven. Besides that doom 3 is absolutly AMAZING. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 the secquel too doom 1, 2 final doom and all the others is a good sequel with excellent 
 graphics and if you like horror, this is the game for you (after FEAR) .
  Not lots of blood or gibs but just enemies that sneak behind you and tear you apart if you dont 
 watch yourself.
  Worth playing.
  Worth buying.
  Worth enyoying :p.
  Some sort of an old school game but with better graphics.
  Only one bad thing:
  Graphics are 
 just to good so if you have a old computer, you better buy a new one if you want to play this game.
 
  But still it is a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haplo699
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:14 am PT
Review:  The years of waiting are finally over, ID have graced us with the new Doom. Now to any new gamers 
 out there bred on a diet of Far Cry and Half-Life 2, let me explain the significance. The original 
 Doom was arguably one of the key elements in the game revolution of the PC. This game (and to a 
 certain extent Wing Commander) was the one that got people binning their Amiga disks, ponying up 
 a whole bunch of greenbacks and buying PCs. Not to word process, not to use as a tool, but to play 
 games. This is certainly the case for me and I wouldnt be surprised if a whole bunch of you were 
 nodding your heads like the Churchill dog on speed right now.
  
  With such a vaunted history, this new one had better measure up right? Well theres good and bad 
 news.
  
  Starting with the good. Take a gander at the screenshots below, this is one of those rare moments 
 when you can say technology has taken a step forward. The graphics own. The screenshots below arent 
 even at high detail!!! (My bad need to upgrade, for all of you interested in helping please visit 
 this website,  The characters look superb, with graphics like these 
 you cant help but feel photo realism is not too far away. The environment is dark and moody with 
 the engine delivering great lighting and atmospheric effects to keep the tension high. I guarantee 
 the first time a zombie ploughs through the stairs at your feet, questing after youre gonna need 
 more than wet wipes to fix your chair. The sound is also good with enough moans and creaks coming 
 from around corners for you genuinely not to want to go there. It is one of the few games atmospheric 
 enough to create tension, unease and in some parts downright fear. Were not talking boo jumps 
 here, but a distinct feeling of dread.
  
  The weapons for the most part feel chunky and deliver a good variety of ways to off opponents and 
 yes the BFG is back, as is the chainsaw, let me be the first to say. YAY!!!!!!
  
  Now the game play, now heres the conundrum, is what made Doom great when it first came out, enough 
 to satisfy the current gamer? I have to say no, theres nothing wrong with the game play and certainly 
 the look and atmosphere and sufficient reason to buy it, but it just doesnt feel like its doing 
 anything new. Sure there are some nice touches. The PDA unit is pretty cool, unfortunately to progress 
 in parts of the game you have to sit there and listen to pre-zombified station crew rattle on about 
 mundane things until they finally give you the combination for a locker that you need. It almost 
 feels like playing Doom again, not a bad thing, but at the current evolutionary level of games, 
 I dont think its enough. And despite the promise of the last few levels being set in the Hell 
 dimension, only the most determined gamer will see them as you have to wade through a lot of repetitive 
 game play beforehand.
  
  As much as I would love to be able to say this was worth the wait, I cant. It just seems they 
 spent so much time working on the new engine (dont get me wrong, it shows) that they didnt seem 
 to add anything to the game itself. If ever there was potential HL2 killer that wouldve been a 
 sure thing with a little extra effort on the game front, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -sero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 12:06 pm PT
Review:  For years we waited, and then we were blessed with the delivery of one of the most revolutionary 
 advances in game engine technology, along with a kick ass thrill ride.
  
  Obviously the first thing to talk about is the graphics. After all, it's the main driving force 
 of Doom 3. id Software finally mastered bump-mapping and lighting, and made excellent use of it. 
 Ironically, without a simple technology like bump-mapping enabled in the game (and yes, you can 
 disable it) , the game looks worse than Quake 2 did. If your card can not support bump-mapping well, 
 or at all, don't even think of playing this game.
  
  The sound is suburb as well. Originally, Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails was hired on to supply 
 the game with it's soundtrack, but late in development, id Software made the decision to cut the 
 "soundtrack" from the game, and instead rely heavily on ambient sound. Although I don't know how 
 Doom 3 would have sounded had Trent's creations made it in, I know that I enjoy the ambient sound 
 a lot, and it compliments the game perfectly. Also, the voice acting is perfect. No complaints 
 at all about it. Everyone bought the characters in Doom 3 to life with realistic emotion in their 
 dialog.
  
  Doom 3 does have it's weak points however, including the absolute inconsistency of game play. For 
 example, the game starts out slow, starts to build on characters, and immerse you in it's stunningly 
 beautiful environment. (Well, as beautiful as a space station can get) However, the game quickly 
 throws you into mindless demon-blasting action. Then, it goes back to being slow and eerie, building 
 up an extremely tense atmosphere, and then drops you into more mindless action game play. This 
 inconsistency ruins what could have been an either consistently eerie game like Resident Evil and 
 Silent Hill, or a consistent shoot em' up game like the original Doom.
  
  The only other major problem I have with Doom 3, is the amount of darkness throughout the game. 
 This also ties into my previous complaint, with the inconsistency of action and suspense. If they 
 would have just made the game almost pure suspense, the near-pitch black atmosphere would have 
 fit perfectly. However, they didn't, and when you're trying to fight 10 demons at the same time 
 and you can't see anything at all, fear turns to aggravation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bassist77
Rating: 4.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:37 am PT
Review:  I wanted this game. I wanted it to be great. It turned into my worst nightmare instead.
  
  I played half way through this game before I decided to stop. 3 months later I used cheats to get 
 to the last boss where I finished the game. Still disappointed. It wasn't too hard, it was too 
 boring. On the last boss of the game you are still fighting the same kinds of enemies you fought 
 in the very first level. 
  
  Graphically, Doom 3 is excellent. Stunning realism and beautiful effects make the game shine. I 
 would have given the game 10 in graphics, but the lack of innovative level design (where you play 
 the same dark corridor for 3 hours) really turned me off to the game.
  
  What else disturbed me was the fact that this game made you want to fall asleep. While running 
 down the various hallways in the game there is little sound at all. No heavy metal like the T. V. 
 ads portray, no sound of creatures coming for your blood, utter silence. But where the game makes 
 up for this is superb voice acting and wonderful nuances that bring the creepy atmosphere into 
 perspective for the gamer.
  
  If you do manage to play through this game though, you won't do it again unless boredom is a fetish 
 of yours. For those online gamers there is a plus with the online play. It exists. But good luck 
 finding someone to play and have fun with. I played it a total of 2 hours before I had seen enough.
 
  
  In conclusion, if you loved the original Doom, this is not the game for you. No secret rooms, no 
 hordes of enemies for you to blast indiscriminately, and overall very little to resemble the original 
 game. If you want to play something more along the lines of what a Doom sequel should be, play 
 a Serious Sam game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Saddler200
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  +/- superb graphics but no flashlight that sucks but u can download the patch wich is always good 
 and the bodies blow up if u hit the enemy when there dead which suks so u cant play with the ragdolls 
 and u cant pick ememies up either.
  - gets super repetitive Fast 
  - the guns all handle the same way all most 
  - no allies 
  - multiplayr aint great
  - need 
 to download too much patches to make the game great without em it suks bad.
  + reely good sound effects voice acting and stuff
  - story doesnt make much sense
  +/- they 
 did put alot of effort in this game but its not enough.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmiSS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:18 pm PT
Review:  When I even found out about Doom3, I freaked. I was so excited. I spent countless nights up looking 
 at screenshots, and reading developer diarys. I skipped school to go get a copy of the game and 
 I played all day and all night. At first glance the game was amazing, but as i played more and 
 more it got dull. I realized that the story is kinda cheesy. The character development is non-existent, 
 and the engine wasnt used to it full potential. I mean yeah the game takes place on mars but really 
 you think people on mars never went outside. And the dark and scary got kinda old too. I know thats 
 what the developers were going for but they could have put a little variety into the mix. Doom3 
 was a good game. I think that its release was badly time, because it was released in the same time 
 period as HL2. I bet if Doom would have been released at a diffrent time it could have been a better 
 game for longer than it was. 
  The multiplayer is a good lan game, other than that its kinda dull. Its your average DM and CTF. 
 So if your into that classic FPS then the mulitplayer could be you thing. 
  Doom3 is a pretty good game but it could have been a great game which makes it disappointing.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarukaSawaguchi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:03 am PT
Review:  Take Doom. Rework it's story to make it a little more advanced. Strip all the hell levels. Make 
 it all part of the UAC base except 2 Hell forray's, mix Doom and Doom 2 monsters, add a few new 
 ones, while lowering their number and making it easier, and you have Doom 3. This isn't to say 
 that Doom 3 is a bad game, it's just not as good as the originals. Doom 3's story is a bit reworked, 
 no phobos or deimos, no anamolies, none of that. instead, it's on mars, theres an ancient civilization, 
 demons, but not lots of demons. That was one of the things that Doom did great, throwing thousands 
 of demons to get blasted. Doom 3 sends them in packs some times, but not hordes. At the most 4. 
 Doom 3 is the easiest in the series, the difficulty isn't varied enough, and the only things that 
 will ever really kill you. The levels are done in a primitive way, but not a doom primitive way. 
 The levels are fairly linear, not awhole lot of mazes and traps like in the original doom. Doom 
 3 plays more like a haunted house. The sound is a mixed bag, some are great, truly spooky and neat, 
 while others, namely the monsters and weapons, sound uninspired and weak. The monsters aren't the 
 part that will scare you, sure the first few times they jump at you you'll startle, but later they're 
 just not scary. It's the ghouls and lighting and the overall clausterphobic halls that will scare 
 you. It's worth playing, it's a great game, but it will never reach the excellence of the original. 
 It's worth playing if you like a quick thrill ride with lots of blood and gorgeous graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Booshka
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:08 am PT
Review:  Much like its predecessor Doom III looks good and has some interesting lighting effects, but underneath 
 its the same old tired FPS concept that seems the norm for FPS games today. Let's face it, they 
 all play practically the same, they just look different and have different guns, talk about uninspiring. 
 Its not Doom III fault for the average score i give it, its the fault of the games industry who 
 relies on the same old rubbish over and over again, they just update the graphics a bit here and 
 there.
  
  Sound in this is half decent and the graphics are good and do the job its required to do, its easy 
 to pick up, but has no real longevity or replayability like games of old used to.
  
  Overall. same old tired FPS, just different Skin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skylinee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:50 am PT
Review:  I have never had a game experience like the one provided by doom 3. It's simplicity and raw frightening 
 gameplay are second to none. It is what it is. And what it is amounts to a pure ID software gameplay 
 experience. They own the first person shooter. And DOOM 3 reminds us of this. The graphics are 
 unbelievable and my hardware is about a year old. Just means it'll be even better when I'm rockin 
 the latest and greatest INTEL and ATI have to offer. The story is linear but it's this way for 
 a purpose. It gives you a direction to run in. because, my God, you'll be doing alot of it... if 
 you want to stay alive. DOOM 3 kicks ass. I hope evryone who loves FPS gives this one a chance. 
 believe the hype 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunonukes
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 3:55 am PT
Review:  doom3 is great!!!!!!!
  For me the doom3 is the most exciting in your face that i had ever play.
  i just find one disavantage 
 on this game that is to be a very long story.
  its the best game at the time. I play it every day and i just love it much more. The graphics 
 are perfect and the scary sounds just increase my addict on game. The monster are just so scary 
 that i cant play it after midnight. The satanic scenes are just the one thing i cant suport.
 
  i already play doom to the doom1 and it just was always the best game of ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagacious_Tien
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  However impressive the graphics and sound may be whenever you play a game, what makes it replayable 
 and memorable is it's gameplay. Everything from the layout, to it's use of gameplay innovation 
 - everything must come in a linear fashion - so the game gives more the more you get into it. This 
 is what most gamers want - and this is also what most developers try to achieve. From the control 
 scheme to it's level of immersion and even it's camera perspective, a game has to make the gamer 
 feel part of the universe that the developer is trying to create. And regardless of whether the 
 gameplay is old school, Id Software have nailed this with Doom 3.
  
  Doom 3 marks the third title in the old school first person shooter series, starting back when 
 3D gameplay was still relatively new and wowing audiences with it's possibilities. The original 
 "Doom" and "Final Doom" (which turned out not to be so "final") - were classics of the day, way 
 back in 1996, when the addictive nature of shooting hellspawn and the heightened tension and creepy 
 atmosphere creating a fearful gameplay experience which, for the time, was amazing.
  
  Doom 3 then harks back to the early age of first person shooting games, essentially it is a remake 
 of the original. You don't need to play either of the original games to enjoy this ultra-violent 
 gore fest, but if you have (and there are few who haven't) then you may enjoy this game's "behind 
 the times" feel and reimagined enemies. Sporting some incredible graphics and sound, it seems strange 
 that the game has taken a backstep in what is primarily it's main objective. The gameplay appears 
 at odds with it's design, whether this is deliberate for fans or just a jaunt for easier times, 
 the fact remains that the gameplay of Doom 3 is back when games were living in simpler times.
 
  
  But the game industry is ever-changing and growing. In it's most poignant stage, it evolves, and 
 many genres are created, merged and changed as tastes change. I guess Id Software didn't get the 
 memo on this, and instead worked together to make a compelling title but with the gameplay of which 
 we all grew out of long ago. This wont make you dislike the game, on the contrary, Doom 3 packs 
 an amazing punch - with some genuinally scary scenes, some ultra gory fighting and some of the 
 most intense and rabid enemies you might ever see. Playing as a nameless and faceless Marine, you 
 are dispatched to Union Aerospace Corporation's Mars Research Facility - which is beset by a number 
 of problems.
  
  This allows you to have a good view of the game's structure, how it looks, sounds and feels. The 
 atmosphere of the title is right up there with the very best, and you are introduced almost immediately 
 to the PDA System - your own Personal Digital Assistant. Some cutscene's as well as some misplaced 
 PDA's allow you to get a feel for the facility's atmosphere, and the paranoia of some of the employees 
 stationed there. Paranoia is apt I suppose when talking about Doom 3. Not long into the game, all 
 hell literally breaks loose and you are on your own fighting off waves of enemies of the demonic 
 kind. However, after some early play - you'll find it becomes predictable - with enemies spawning 
 behind you which will at first supply you with shocks, but later you become desensitised to that 
 kind of fear, and the game doesn't make up for it later on.
  
  The arsenal that you are supplied with is rather small - though you do have all the staples of 
 first person shooters such as a handgun, plasma gun, machine gun, chain gun and shotgun. Unusually, 
 you can also make use of a Chainsaw as well - which easily carves through enemies, and naturally 
 doesn't require reloading, making it a good option for taking out large groups of zombies. But 
 not all enemies come after you in slow motion. Hellspawn comes out in a variety of ways, with enemies 
 rushing you, jumping up, clawing, biting and throwing flaming balls of fire. It's intense stuff, 
 and they evade, dodge and try to mess you up. There are some demonized humans as well - who make 
 use of machine guns and shields as well, and these are probably the hardest enemy in the game, 
 especially when there are a few - as they have a higher degree of intelligence than the standard 
 sorts of enemies you can easily plough through.
  
  Unfortunately the game derives its suspense and tension early on from the demonic enemies, with 
 them leaping out of the darkness giving you some genuine thrills. But this doesn't work time after 
 time, and the same shock tactics are used throughout the campaign and have a lesser effect as you 
 go on. Your first objective is to meet up with the squad you are originally assigned too, but as 
 luck would have it, you never make it. The omission of some team gunplay is shocking, considering 
 even Doom 3's predecessor's offered it. This is offset ocassionally by a little robotic guard who 
 will cover a pre-determined distance and take out all enemies for you, but it isn't the same.
 
  
  The length of the game isn't questionable - with a over-long 15 hour minimum fight through hell. 
 This is probably to make up for the game's poor online play, with generic maps and modes on offer. 
 Do yourself a favour and keep out of this altogether, it has a very tacked on feel and doesn't 
 make the game any better for it's inclusion. For some unknown reason, you are given no identity 
 whatsoever in the game, and as such - Doom 3 provides many other people to the story, which fleshes 
 out the experience somewhat, but it's done in an ineffectual fashion. Essentially, there are many 
 PDA's lying around. You require them to get through areas you dont have access too - and they each 
 have a number of emails, voice logs and more to take you out of the experience.
  
  While it is a nice touch - this is presented in a way that actually takes you out of the game, 
 and many gamers may not care for that. It is all optional of course to read through another's presonal 
 memo's to self and emails - which occassionaly provide clues, such as locker codes. However - this 
 could have been given more thought, as it's ineffectual to the experience, and doesn't tie together 
 with the games atmosphere it is so deperately trying to achieve. But there are many fear-inducing 
 moments, when the screen will suddenly turn red, give some static and laughing can be heard. You 
 are stationary - and you actually feel like whatever has got to those people is trying to overtake 
 you. This can happen at any point, and it's fear inducing, but again doesn't change. Like the game 
 itself it is formulaic - done once you've seen all that it has to offer, as it doesn't change throughout 
 the course of the experience.
  
  Neither does the environments. Spoilt silly by a number of high ranking games of late, I was hoping 
 to see some variety in the games environments - especially with the incredible graphics on offer. 
 But unfortunately - the game is a monotonous trench through ever darkening corridors of assorted 
 beasts that hunger for your blood. Fair enough that with the setting, Id Software have been genuine 
 to provide an authentic atmosphere of a research base set on another planet. But there is just 
 so much more that could have been done, and while the game looks incredible, it's environments 
 are sorely lacking of any real identity. They don't feel lived in.
  
  Sound is one of the major factors with setting the mood of any game, so thankfully Doom 3's is 
 of one dripping with suspense. Moody and low, it kicks into some high ranking, decibel crashing 
 rock when there is enough going on, which can actually make you pick when a situation may arise. 
 The music is suspenseful - and while you may not remember it afterwards, it does a considerably 
 good job at providing a good level of fear and tension. The Sound Effects is what really brings 
 the experience to life, with a number of environmental and monster effects that give the game it's 
 fear. This isn't a game for children, with Horror literally jumping out of the screen in waves. 
 Steam shooting and lights fading, the games atmosphere is brimming with exciting hellish opportunities 
 to make you jump - and the effects is what really help create this.
  
  Overall though, with it's decidedly old school gameplay, Doom 3 is a fantastic ride through Hell 
 and back. If there was a little more variety to it's environments or to how you play, this would 
 have scored higher but nonetheless, this is a great game dripping with atmosphere and extreme violence. 
 Fun while it lasts - I recommend this to all who enjoy things that go bump in the night, or jump 
 out from the darkness and try to rip your face off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shub-Niggurath
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3, the latest in the classic gaming franchise. Not bad for a series that began with a group 
 of 12 people. Lets cut straight through the BS and get right to the meat, shall we?
  
  You are a marine sent to the UAC research facility on Mars. Apparently a lot of spooky stuff has 
 been going down and youre one of many armed men dispatched to the planet to help the staff sleep 
 better at night. So what if some people here and there are hearing voices in empty rooms, or seeing 
 monsters in the shadows, or even practicing Satanic Ritualswhat could possibly go wrong? Oh yeah, 
 all Hell could break loose! And it does. It wouldnt be a very entertaining game if nothing happened, 
 now would it? Now youre stuck, alone, in the most poorly lit facility in the solar system to battle 
 it out with the forces of Hell.
  
  Now that weve got the story out of the way, lets talk about the game itself. The graphics in 
 this game are spectacular. And since this is a PC game that means your min. system requirements 
 are a NASA supercomputer and the blood of a virgin. Get to hunting. The environments are poorly 
 lit to establish a mood and to always keep you on edge (not to mention to keep you squinting like 
 Mr. Magoo) . The game relies heavily on a lot of B-Movie-esque tactics to scare the crap out of 
 you. Expect to hear a lot of evil sounding chanting, laughter, screams, squeals, whispers, and 
 lots of other things going bump in the darkness. This trick works all the time. I personally love 
 getting into video games and letting them scare the crap out of me. This one does thata lot. I 
 also have to say that the character design is top rate. The game brings back all of your favorite 
 cannon fodder from previous Doom games. Expect to see the ever threatening Cacodemon, Imp, Zombie 
 Marine, and yes, even Pinkie! All of these characters are breathtakingits just too friggin bad 
 the lighting is so lack luster or you could truly appreciate the beauty and attention to detail 
 with which these characters have been made. The game relies very heavily on the old Doom principle 
 of Find the door, find the key but this time its peoples PDAs. You have to scan peoples PDAs 
 to get their security clearances and so forth. You also get the added benefit of personal audio 
 logs and their emails. These are all actually very helpful as finer pieces of the over-all story 
 line. Nice tweak to an old premise. In the appearances department this game has done everything 
 right.
  
  The only gripe I have with the items and weapons is that with all of the technology on 22nd century 
 Mars the one thing they DONT HAVE is DUCT TAPE!! For the love of Phobos, let me stick the flashlight 
 to something!! Your weapons are nice. They have the Classic Doom Array. You have your trusty blaster 
 pistol, your shotgun, your chain gun and even an improved BFG! However, the weapons are useless 
 when you have the flashlight in your hand. You have to toggle between having the flashlight and 
 being defenseless or not having the flashlight and running blind. This isnt good considering all 
 of the enemies who are going to be diving out at you from behind walls, broken panels, the ceiling, 
 the floor, and anywhere else you can hide a monster from Hell. The targeting icon doesnt even 
 turn red unless youre firing at the enemy and aiming at it too. Expect to have a lot of firefights 
 NOT go your way. Alsoyou have to love the chainsaws on Mars. They attempt to explain them by saying 
 that someone ordered jackhammers and they got chainsaws, but that still sounds a little too convenient. 
 For the most part this game would have done a lot better had even a few of the weapons had a flashlight 
 on them.
  
  As a whole this is a very nice game. And, as of the writing of this, most (if not all) retailers 
 have probably discounted the game to $20 or under. This is nice, considering that if you dont 
 have one bad azz PC youre probably going to be playing Doom 3: The Slideshow. This is one to get 
 for you hardcore shooter fans and I know you Doom fanatics had it reserved long before it came 
 out. Enjoy and lay waste to the demon, alien, minions of Hell thingies! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thandor_DX
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 3:03 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 has brought the 1st person shooter to the next level, outstanding graphics and gameplay. 
 I remember when i was little i used to play doom 2 and 1, they were the best games ever, i look 
 back on it and think "what dodgy graphics", yet that dosen't stop me from still playing the original 
 doom series, its great fun. Doom delivers an emence 3d environment with a great selection of weapons 
 and monsters alike. The storyline is great, its great fun to play over and over and if you have 
 surround sound, your more than likely to **** yourself (not really) but it is scary, the ambiance 
 sounds really give that edge to the game that allot of other games are missing. Its great when 
 your walking and you hear the monster creep up behind you or when your letting off shells on your 
 chaingun. If your a hardcore PC gamer, Doom 3 should be in your Hall Of Fame, This Forever will 
 be a classic game just like others before it. I would like to thank the guys from Activision and 
 a massive thanks to the guys id software, every game they make becomes a chapter in the history 
 of games. Its a great horror game and i hope they make a even better sequel, next to resurrection 
 of evil that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talgrath
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:14 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 has been much vaunted and talked about, but in truth it's only really worth it for fans 
 of the shooter genre.
  
  The storyline is a more fleshed out version of Doom's original storyline. You're a new marine guard 
 for a research acility on Mars. During your first day on the job, something occurs that opens a 
 portal to Hell. Now you are the only one who can combat the forces of hell to stay alive and save 
 humanity from the demon menace.
  
  Graphics and sound are the stars of the show here. Shadow detail is well done, and monsters and 
 people look realistic, though the skins do look somewhat rubbery. The sound sets the mood rather 
 appropriately, the monsters sound truly hellish and the guns all sound appropriate.
  
  Gameplay is pretty much your standard shooter stuff. You've got a bunch of different guns, you 
 point them in the right direction and fire. The guns all have the appropriate feel to them, when 
 you fire a shotgun, you get the power and recoil you would expect from a shotgun, etc. Doom 3 uses 
 a lot of ambushes to make you jump, primarily relying on the graphics and sound to set the mood; 
 this will work for the first few levels, it's genuinely freaky, but towards the end of the game 
 it feels tired and overused (I was actually predicting them with a fair bit of accuracy) .
  
  The biggest disappointment is the multiplayer, it feels like something I played years ago. 
 The rocket launcher is easily the weapon of choice and was located somewhere on every multiplayer 
 level I tried.
  
  Is it great? No. But it is a solid shooter in the single player department that looks and sounds 
 good and delivers a tense atmosphere. There was a lot more potential here, but Doom 3 delivers 
 a good first person shooter experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drednot37
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 12, 2005 11:57 am PT
Review:  The third installment of the Doom series had been in production and development for 4 years, making 
 it a suspenseful wait for Doom gamers all over the world. Now that it has been released for over 
 a year, there are many different praises and different rants about this game. I, however, have 
 mixed reactions about the gameplay of this game.
  
  To begin, the graphics don't disappoint; they are of top-notch quality if you can pack the required 
 hardware video card for it. Every facial expression and reaction of the employees is caught perfectly. 
 The sounds of guns can be better, such as the plasma gun, but the music sets the atmosphere in 
 an eerie and creepy feel, making the scare factor high. Controls may take a while to learn, but 
 once you get the hang of it, you'll be a demon slayerr in no time. ( Inuyasha pun intended :P ) 
 
  
  The entire gameplay overall is impressive. ID has done a great job to make this new installment 
 of the Doom series, but it takes a toll on people's computer if it can't handle the intense graphics 
 of this monster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewmaster834
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  For a game considered a First Person Shooter (FPS) it completely lacks the features of one. Most 
 of the time in this game you only fight at most like 5 enemies but im shooters like Halo 2 or Half 
 Life 2 they fight armies of enemies. This game is no FPS by my standards, but more of a survival 
 horror because in fact, the occasional hell-like appearances and cries of pleas in the game show 
 a more scarier edge. Whats the deal with switching back and forth between the flashlight and your 
 weapon? That was obviousally done on purpose to enforce the horror. Overall, this game has outstanding 
 graphics, great sound, nice and entertaining gameplay, although levels repetitve at times going 
 through labs that always has like three different sectors. The massive array of weapons makes the 
 game tons of fun. This game can take less than 10 hours because the lack of difficulty won't keep 
 you stuck in one area but moving ahead at a fast pace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OzKing10
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Its is packed with intense high-paced action that rivals that of near perfect 
 shooters. But any one who compared it to Halo 2 and Half-Life 2 is being unfaithful to you. During 
 most of the single player campagin in both Half-Life 2 and Halo 2 you are constantly fight scores 
 of enemies. This can be more compared to... dare I say it? RESIDENT EVIL!. Yes I said it. This is 
 more of a survivor-horror game than any mainstream shooters out on the market. At some points of 
 the game you're not even shooting enemies but are looking for PDAs so that you can gain accsess 
 to higher security areas or to get the combination to lockers filled with ammo and health. Another 
 thing that makes more of a survivor-hooror game than a shooter is that a lot of the time (that 
 is an understatement) you are switchiing between your flashlight and your weapon. This adds to 
 a more suspensful type gameplay than a straight up run and gun. The enemies act to try and scare 
 you most of the time than to kill you. Zombies and demons are always popping out of the most unlikeliest 
 of places. The weapons are typical of most first-person shooters with your standard pistol, shotgun, 
 assault rifle, gatling gun, and the occasional experimental and/or alien weaponry. But above all 
 this is still a good game . It does a real good job of scare you fom time to time. So if your looking 
 for a fun, imersive game that will scare better than some survivor-horror game than I suggest that 
 you pick it up. Beybol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert_11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  OK how do i start this doom 3 isn't exactly what everyone expected for the most part the game is 
 somewhat solid but gets quite repatitive and fairly tedious. After a while mostly because you keep 
 fighting the same monsters over and over again. There are few scares throw in like when an imp 
 spawns right behind for the first couple of time its frighting after a while its very predicitable 
 the game looks fanatastic. but do to the fact that the game is suppose to be dark it makes you 
 really wonder why you can't hold a gun and flashlight at the same time. although there is a way 
 to make it that you can if you install a ducttape mod so there are mods to overlook that promblem 
 the story is so so. Actually what holds doom 3 togother is the spooky atmosphere and the graphics 
 theres a lot of very disturbing moments and things in the game and it sounds really good too espically 
 if you have 5.1 Surrond Sound you will feel like you actually there. The weapons aren't very intresting 
 to use there basically just point and shot weapons although the chainsaw is loads of fun to use 
 the games fairly long it will take you probably up to 20 hours to beat it but you might want to 
 put the difficulty up if you a vetren of FPS otherwise it will be too easy. Theres Multiplayer 
 but its very dull it basically just standard deathmatch and it only supports like 4 players. Overall 
 this game still a fairly decent FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2005 12:26 pm PT
Review:  click click, i load my pistol with roubds getting ready for a zombie to pop out in the next room, 
 chssst the door opens and wham! i hav a wrench embedded in my face and there is blood on the floor 
 with the reamins of my team mate at my feat.... what happened here? ill tel u what happened here.... doom 
 3! i can honeslty say this game scared the living hell out of me! the graphics are the best around, 
 the sounds make u want a change of underwear and the gameplay rocks! i loved this game straight 
 away, with monsters everywhere and blood on your hands, you own the base, no, you own the base 
 and those god forbidden aliens in it, oyu will kill them you will be singing the national anthem 
 vas you do, thius game is liberating yet it brings out the dark side in you. i have to say the 
 greatest thing despite the grpahics was the sounds, men calling over the readios for help as you 
 witness the sound of them being torn limb from limb, buy it, buy it now! or when aliens do arrive 
 you wont know how to react! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 9:06 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to Doom 3 alot as I was in need of a new first person shooter after over 
 playing my previous games. I had never played the previous Dooms but had heard loads about them 
 being a game for so long. Well my first impression of Doom 3 was one of coolness and sci-fi happiness 
 with it taking place on mars and all. Well I continued into the main game and found that the game 
 is dark as hell, no meaning intended. The graphics that I could see were awesome but there is just 
 too much darkness for my taste even for a "scary" game. The people in the game all look well done, 
 except they all look as if they are on super steroids with their huge bodies. I guess this is b/c 
 of their clothes and/or armor but it looks kinda funny sometimes. The sound in the game is great 
 and really atmospheric. It really helps to set the mood and scare you when something comes out 
 of nowhere. The physics engine that was talked about so much in this game is rarely used and doesnt 
 seem to make a difference in the game at all. I hope they didnt go through too much trouble building 
 this engine. HL2 does a much better presentation of its physics engine, even if its a little overdone. 
 The enemies in the game are scary and challenging. Their tactics of jumping out of nowhere does 
 get a little old after a while too. The battles, weapons and environments in this game dont really 
 create anything exciting for me. There arent really any exciting shootouts, just some fast firing 
 in pitch black rooms against fast/slow moving targets that always attack in the same way. 
  
  I guess overall this game is good step for graphics engines, however its not shown off as it 
 should be due to the overdone darkness in this game. The jump and scare method in this game is 
 overused and doesnt allow for the planning and shootouts that are so fun in most first person shooters. 
 The sound is one of great things in this game, very atmospheric and sharp. The AI good enough to 
 not get stuck or do anything stupid but doesnt do anything exciting that I've seen either. The 
 games a solid, fast paced, scary close quarters first person shooter with little or no tactical 
 elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chimpson6
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 7, 2005 2:18 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I want to say that this game is one of those games that your either going to love 
 it, or your going to hate it, Thats it, theres not much middle ground on this one, folks.
  
  Gameplay- This game plays pretty simply, and is very easy to get get used to. Its your basic 
 FPS gameplay, and it all flows together pretty decently, minior hiccups... depending on the computer 
 you have that is.
  This is, of course, a sort of survival-horror game, as seeing as your fighting of the forces of 
 Hell with a shot-gun. So naturaly theres parts in the game, where it can get pretty bloody, and 
 things jump out at you from dark corners. These aspects really add to the feeling that your really 
 fighting demons from Hell.
  
  Graphics- This is where having a nice computer really pays off, the graphics in this game a amazing. 
 The graphics also make the game come to life with realalstic shadows and blood splatter. These 
 graphics are just simply the best you've seen yet.
  
  Misc.- All-in-all this game is definatly worth getting if you have the right comp and a few extra 
 bucks lyin around. Just be sure to play it with the sound up and the lights off.
  
  -Chimpson 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalore_15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 6:48 am PT
Review:  Normally I find Gamespot's reviews to be right on the money, but boy did they get it wrong with 
 this one! Many of the complaints they made against the game just simply aren't true, for example, 
 they said that this game isn't scary... Wrong, wrong and WRONG! This game is terrifying, as long 
 as you're playing it right. Blasting through it on easy or medium difficulty (which is probably 
 what most people will do) will completely ruin the experience for you. Jack the difficulty up to 
 hard, play it with the lights off and with surround sound on, and you really get a sense of what 
 this game is all about. The shadows can hide an all-manner of hideous monsters, while the constant 
 background noise of demonic voices that is to be found later in the game really puts you on-edge.
 
  
  One thing I'd like to point out is the oft-complained about flashlight in the game. I believe it 
 was Greg Kasavin in the video review who said that "not being able to hold a gun and the flashlight 
 at the same time detracts from the atmosphere of the game." I couldn't disagree more. id software 
 implemented this flashlight system ON PURPOSE, in order to make the game MORE atmospheric... Think 
 about it. You can either have your flashlight out, being able to see what is about to attack you, 
 or you can have your weapon out but be almost blind to the monsters around you. This creates a 
 real dilemma in the back of your mind as you play, whether you are to be defenseless but aware 
 or whether to shoot in the dark. Also, it has been said that if it is the future, why do the guns 
 not simply have flashlights attached to them? The same reason that most don't now! Most of the 
 weapons you find are meant for either security purposes or are in their experimental stages. In 
 a place that is normally brightly lit (only not being so because of an accident involving a portal 
 to HELL, a scenario that most people when designing such a base wouldn't have thought of) , a gun 
 with a flashlight attached to it would be needlessly bulky, especially in such a confined area.
 
  
  Speaking of guns, most of the weapons from the previous games make a welcome return (the plasma 
 rifle being my personal favourite) , with a new addition in the form of the soul cube. For those 
 who haven't played this game, I won't reveal its secrets, but needles to say, it is an awesome 
 sight to behold...
  
  So, we have been over the reasons why this game is scary, but is it any good to play? The simple 
 answer is yes. Many comments have been made about its old fashioned playing style and linear levels, 
 but for me, this is a blessing rather than a curse. This is action gaming in its purest form, trying 
 to survive against great odds while getting from A to B. This is about SURVIVAL. In reality (if 
 something like this could ever happen) , nobody would stop to do ridiculous side puzzles like those 
 found games such as KoTOR, we'd want to get the hell out of there (no pun intended) ! Besides, while 
 many will no-doubt disagree with me, I don't think that linearity in a game is a bad thing. It 
 gives us something to aim for, something worth PLAYING for, and it strengthens the narrative that 
 goes along with it. I often found when playing GTA: San Andreas that I just couldn't play anymore. 
 The story was too shallow, the atmosphere wasn't there, I could go anywhere but had nothing to 
 do when I got there that furthered my character... I couldn't go on in a world like that. This 
 game isn't like that. What most games fail to achieve, such as tension and atmosphere, this has 
 in bucket loads, and it's because of this that Doom 3 is one of the best games out there...
  
  N. B. I've rated the difficulty as hard as that is the best difficulty to play it at. At lower 
 difficulties, much of the developer's painstaking work in creating fear and tension is lost. Do 
 yourself a favour, play it on HARD... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wee_wardy_rct
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  DOOM 3 
  
  GAMEPLAY :
  
  DOOM 3 has got to be one of the best games for the x box since residant evil for the playstation
 
  It features the typical first day on th job and you have to blow peoples heads of but then again
 
  isn't that what we want?
  many of these games have a story so long at the start by the time you get to play the game you'r 
 
  starting to day dream. DOOM 3 however has the perfect cobination for both the story and the action
 
  . The best thing with this game is you get so excited at the start on how fun it is to shoot posesed 
 in
  the brain that you'v already started counting how many times you have stood up and tosed you'r 
 controler
  at you'r wall.
  
  STORY :
  
  The story goes that you'r a new recruit for a base stationed on mars and yes thats right.....
 
  something goes wrong. your trecking on you'r simple day missions when you get a call on the radio
 
  shouting for all personel to report to hq. So you head for hq when all hell brakes loose from 
 out of the blue
  you are forced to shoot posesed recruits with a handgun. There you have it the typical save the 
 day motion
  which you embarke on in nearly every medeocre game of today!.
  
  GRAPHICS :
  
  The graphics in which DOOM 3 has supplied you with are very pleasing and are 
 not to be underestimated.
  If you were to play doom 3 for around a day then switch back to any resident evil for the playstation
 
  you would be very disapointed .......
  the detail that has been put into the zobies demons and pesesed recruits is astonotion and must 
 be why DOOM 3
  has got to be one of my favourites.
  
  SOUND :
  
  The sound is not very different from many of the other shoot em up zobie games but HAY ! how different
 
  could demons sound from zobies. You have the ecasional growns and moans then you get the rather 
 
  attention seekers who screach and do the classic evil lagh - MUUUUUU HA HAHA HAHAHAHAAAAAAA
  
 that sort...
  But this game would not be complete without the KER CHING sound the shotgun makes. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  The shareware version of Doom was one of my first PC games back in 1993 and it was both fun and 
 a big step in the right direction for the first person shooter genre which was in its early stages 
 at the time and not nearly as popular as it is now. Doom 3 (which is essentially a remake of Doom 
 1) took the series in a new direction and while I found the experience to be satisfying; I couldnt 
 help but ask myself Is this really Doom?
  
  Doom 3 is a retelling of the original Doom which features a more developed (but still ultimately 
 flat) storyline. Instead of being set on Phobos and Deimos; two moons orbiting Mars; Doom 3 is 
 set on Mars itself. Over the course of Doom 3 the storyline remains fairly predictable and unsurprising, 
 but compared to the original Doom and Doom II; the plot of Doom 3 is a step in the right direction 
 for the series.
  
  The gameplay of Doom 3 is standard first person shooter fare; you start with a small gun, kill 
 the guys who are trying to kill you, and get bigger and better guns along the way. Doom 3 tries 
 to make the series more survival\horror oriented by introducing extremely dark environments and 
 by giving you a weak flashlight and limited ammunition pickups as you progress through Doom 3's 
 eerie areas. The developers also try to surprise you by having demons pop out of nowhere occasionally; 
 these moments are fairly predictable however and rarely (if ever) succeed in accomplishing what 
 they were meant to accomplish.
  
  The multiplayer part of Doom 3 tries to bring back the days of classic Doom deathmatches but this 
 is ultimately what kills it. You can edit the game so you can have up to thirty two players, but 
 out of the box Doom 3 only supports four to eight player deathmatches, and this is rather unforgivable 
 in this day and age. Im sure a lot of people enjoyed Doom deathmatches back when that game was 
 fresh; myself included, but that was then and this is now.
  
  The graphics in Doom 3 are amazing. The engine sports superb lighting, shadows, and fairly realistic 
 looking textures and models though sometimes the textures look fake and plastic. The character 
 models are detailed and well animated, but the human models pale in comparison to the detail of 
 the demons and monsters youll encounter in the dark corridors of Doom 3.
  
  The audio in Doom 3 is satisfactory; unfortunately theres barely any music and the gun sounds 
 are extremely weak. The voice acting and environmental effects, however; are very nice and give 
 the game a lot of atmosphere and immersion which makes up for the lack of music and the weak gun 
 sounds.
  
  Doom 3 is a solid remake of a classic shooter. It gives long time fans a better telling of the 
 original games storyline as well as some fresh survival\horror-like gameplay. I found Doom 3 to 
 be a satisfying experience overall, but to me it is ultimately lacking what made the original two 
 games fun: the arcade action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocfort
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 12:28 am PT
Review:  I like Doom 3: dark ambient, jerky action, river of blood, strong and scaring opponent and a valid 
 storyboard. The PDA search and accumulation throughout the game is very intriguing and funny like 
 the Martian Buddy lottery and advertisements. The game is fluid and very addictive with several 
 scaring moments, gore situations, terrific opponents and honestly no friends at all. Just you, 
 your gun and the hell against you. In the dark you have to choose between light or gun. Some people 
 dont like this, but I found this an interesting complication. In conclusion not a revolutionary 
 game but amazing and worthy to play . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BayushiShoju
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 30, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most coolest First-Person-Shooters ever. I love this game. When I play this 
 game, I play in the dark. I suggest someone who claims they are fearless to try that. Playing the 
 game in the dark is very frightening. Your probably saying "oh its just a game" but for those who 
 have played they know exactly what I am talking about. I jump every time someone attacks me, or 
 jumps out at me. You can play this game in broad daylight and its scary as hell. A warning as well... this 
 game is very addicting. And unlike Quake III you just dont run in and shoot stuff, you have to 
 be very observant and look in every corner, even in a room you have been in because things like 
 to randomly jump out at you. I recommend this game to anyone who likes a good scare and a gory 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stallion19
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The amazing grapics and sound are the first thing that jump out at you, even on a older system. 
 If you think your gonna be able to play this game and not be scared, you have another thing commin. 
 For the first couple of missions you on the edge of you set creeping arould every corner. But after 
 awhile the gameplay comes repetitive and you find yourself just runin around and blasting everything 
 in site. Still the game is loads of funs and high addictive and worth the $30. It's a great addition 
 to the series and a great game. If you like FPS you'll love Doom3!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razvantmkiri
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:35 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a great games although all my friends said it is disappointing and a very respectful 
 magazine made it the disappointment of the year. Most impressing in doom 3 are the graphics , the 
 engine is remarkable the level detail is superb. What I like most was the frightening feeling that 
 the game gave me, at times I found myself to scared to go on. One other aspect I liked about this 
 game is that doom 3 paved the way for Quake 4 ,Ive played both and I saw that many mistakes made 
 in doom were corrected in Quake.
  The bottom line is that you shouldnt listen to other people when they tell you that a game is 
 good or bad instead you should play it and decide for yourself , in fact thats what I wanted to 
 say but I had to write a review so I could express my opinion .
  PLAY FIRST JUDGE AFTER!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretikur
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Genre: Horror, Action
  Publisher: Activision
  Developer: id Software
  
  There isn't much story in this game. You came to Mars-city with your space ship... But something 
 was wrong. Weird burning skulls are flying around and when they hit the people they turn into zombies. 
 For some reason you wont turn into a zombie and you will fight to survive. I don't want to spoil 
 anything but you will gather more information while playing.
  
  You wont really know what is going on but you wont care either. You'll just have fun and kill zombies 
 and monsters.
  
  This game is a little disappointing since it isn't scary as you may have heard. The game is far 
 too unrealistic and you'll find yourself laughing at these stupid zombies walking around.
  
  Your enemies like to get shot. Sometimes they will search for cover but most of them are just 
 too stupid and will only was slowly closer and closer to you until you've killed them all.
  
  Graphics are nice too not many computers are able to play this game but you can always lower 
 the graphics level.
  
  Well, Doom 3 is a great game but it kinda missed it's point being scary.
  I'll give this a 8.4! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unholy_Raven
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 29, 2005 6:36 am PT
Review:  I couldn't wait to get this game when it came out last year. When I finally got it and played it, 
 I found it lacking a bit. The graphics weren't as smooth as they could have been zombies had that 
 straight edge look when they moved instead of the smooth contours that would be expected. I also 
 found it quite easy for the exception of that big monster before you get to the cyclopse. I managed 
 to get through it in about a day and half or a day if I played it without any breaks. 
  
  Doom 3 however, did satisfy my hunger for blood and brains which was a nice touch. It did have 
 some scare tactics too, this made up for some of the bad parts. That whole mirror thing in the 
 bathroom was pretty cool as well. I also liked the idea that I was never quite sure where I was 
 going to get attacked from or if I was going to get attacked at all.
  
  I know this review doesn't look positive, but that's only because I'm used to harder, more advanced 
 games. This game is good for everyone actually. If you're just entering the world of PC gaming 
 or you like blood and brains, than this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobpolean
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  A great walk down memory lane, but not very original. But I don't think the creators intended it 
 to be anything more than a showcase of their latest graphic technology applied to the game that 
 put them on the map (no offense to Wolf 3D) . The graphics and lighting effects are awesome, as 
 should be expected from any new Id release. If you are looking for something original, you might 
 want to look elsewhere. If you want plenty of demon killing goodness with awesome atmosphere (read 
 spooky) here's your game. Even on my older system, this game performed great. I can only imagine 
 how terrific it looks on a newer system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettsk8
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 28, 2005 11:38 am PT
Review:  Doom started out a Revolutionary game back in the day, and even still today it brings back that 
 title. The gameplay and story was awsome! I know that the creators wanted to create the creepy 
 factor... although sometimes the lighting got on my nerves and messed with my eyes. I can't complain 
 though because the graphics make up for everything, Beautiful game! Just like the other Doom you 
 get a huge arsenal of weapons such as the chainsaw, assault rifle, plasma guns, and more... but 
 i wont ruin anything for you. I recomend this game to anyone who wants a scare, because i promise 
 you theres plenty........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreadx4
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 11:17 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a Doom series game until this installment, I had watched friends play doom 
 2, but I am sorry to say had a mac. (cringe) Anyway, back to the story, I felt that doom 3 would 
 be a mediocre game that existed to show off the graphical capabilities of the time. But I was pleasantly 
 surprised at the surprisingly in-depth story. Of course, you read the reviews that say no story 
 at all, the problem is you have to do the dreaded act of reading all the PDA's but when you do, 
 you get a feel for the environment and a feel for what the people in the lab where experiencing. 
 The voice acting in the PDA's themselves where fairly decent and did a fair job being emotional. 
 As for the actual gameplay the game suffers quite a bit, its not exactly fun, its more of a thrill. 
 It is a scary game, and I dare a person with a good computer and 7.1 surround sound to play this 
 game alone at night. The sound and look of the game go to great lengths to make you suspect something 
 at every corner. The problem with the game is the "monster closet" style scares they try to pull 
 on you throughout the whole game. It gets old fast, and it shatters the replay value because you 
 know, the ploy by the end of the game, and don't want to deal with it again. I can say however, 
 after finishing the game the first time, it made me feel like i actually accomplished something, 
 I sat back in my chair and said "Damn, that was a good game". Despite the flaws that end up crippling 
 the game, these same flaws make it a truly frightful experience, that I am glad to have had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sshong
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Just by looking at the screenshots you can tell that this game has an amazing graphics however 
 the gameplay comes a little disappointing. All the AI shares pretty much the same pattern, after 
 beating one or two missions the game becomes really boring. The sound however is amazing it gives 
 the player a scary feeling which you think it will scare you. But once you play the game for some 
 hours you can predict where the enemy is going to come out from. Doom3 has a really great graphics 
 and I think it is a great game however compare to all the great first shooter games out there it 
 is just not the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisfitsDanzing
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:58 pm PT
Review:  when i played the old dooms which i still do the classics !oh yeah! i wasnt worried about them destroying 
 the series cuz doom 3 does not follow doom 1 at all.. so many ppl think its a remake : ( so they 
 again keep comparing the damn settings and story :O but this has the graphics that i wouldnt care 
 if they never really upgraded its amazing how u can see the sores, busted eye balls, wrinkles, bumb 
 mapping is so sweet it brings the game alive!! im serious when i popped the disce at my friends 
 house we could only get the first level to work cuz of somekind of bug in his pc so the next i 
 got tired of waiting for the xbox version which it was suppose to be following righ after tok a 
 year : ( but when i brought it home that was the first thing i did :D.. i always read articles about 
 how scary it would be and how dark and scary and gorey.. lol they were right not saying i pissed 
 my pants or anything like most morons say. but this was the 2 nd day so not many reviews of ppl 
 talking so i was a first time victim that waite for 4 years! when i stepped in th hanger and walked 
 out my stomach dropped same way with counter strike source when i first saw it on its release :P 
 i knew this game and hl2 was changing the world cuz now i wont touch a console anymore unless its 
 madden and sense the xbox is making controllers for the pc no need my fried pc all the way now... 
 god i keep going off track.. and when he was talking to the guy giving his PDA i couldnt; believe 
 how detailed everything was.. but dont listen to ppl with the dark and bs its not that freaking 
 dark... yes sometimes it is but 98 percent of the game isnt that dark.. but if u love great AI, amazingg 
 gameplay! amazing graphics ohhh the sound is awesome on surround sound i barely turn my speakers 
 up.. ohh i probably beaten the game 9 or 10 times and when i beat hl2 : ( great engine gret engine 
 but i found myself actually forcing myself to finish the darn game instead of enjoying.. i did 
 love hl1 tho but hl2 does have great mods... well if u guys r new and worried about getting a new 
 game to play on DOOM 3 is by far one of the best single player games ever y did i say one of the 
 best? cuz DOOM1 and DOOM 2 r my favorite classics :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patchtheman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:01 am PT
Review:  To begin with it's a very casual, obvious style to a FPS: First day at the job.
  You start off thinking to yourself: WOW!
  The first thing that hits you are the BREATH TAKING 
 graphics and the brilliant sound quality, your second thought is how well it seems to play and 
 handle, all this in the first few minutes. 
  Your thrid thought is Right! Where are the weapons.
  Well it only takes a short time to walk 
 along paths, talking to people, going through an airlock or two before you realise that hell has 
 opened up. 
  LET THE HORROR BEGIN.
  
  There are alot of scary moments in this game, fire imps mainly, jumping from corners and freaking 
 the HELL out of you, it makes it OH so better if you have surround sound or surround sound headphones 
 on full.
  One of the main problems you'll first find is that at the first part of the game there are only 
 really four monsters... Zombies, FAT zombies, fire imps and these small freaky spider things. 
 
  Unfortuantly as soon as the zombies are gone it's just mainly fire imps, then these skeleton rocket 
 imps and the spiders, of course you do later find many many more types of monsters but just not 
 as frequently as the fire imps and spiders, the fire imps are with you until the VERY end of the 
 game. But this aside the AI is very good indeed.
  
  There is a vast array of weapons to be had, you'll be constantly be thinking to yourself: "Well 
 if I use the chain gun on the fire imps and the shotgun and handgun on the spider creatures then 
 that'll leave the rocket launcher for the...." etc.
  
  Along the way you will pick up PDA'S from dead people or they will just be lying about, on your 
 menu you can read their emails and listen to their voice recordings of a day at work which may 
 lead to clues of what lies ahead in that particular area or a code to open a lovely weapon room. 
 
  At one time there is even link to a website that if you use in real life off from Doom 3 you can 
 get a code that when entered on DOOM 3 gives you a VERY VERY powerful gun indeed.
  
  The map designs some what match the likes of the interior of Black Mesa from Half life.... well 
 until it becomes the only interior. 
  The whole game seems to get very repetitive at the end of the game, luckily the designers obviously 
 notcied this and that is when you enter hell. 
  Although after you have left the very disturbing and hard maps of hell you have to back track a 
 little through maps you have seen around half way through the game which is slightly teadous.
 
  
  You'll begin to notice the Doom 3 pattern near the end: Go into room, shoot enemies, collect ammo, 
 go into room, shoot enemies etc and that fire imps tend to hide behind corners all the time so 
 you'll readily start up your chain gun. Some times you can even see the fire imps standing in corners 
 and not moving until you're close enough which is a shame.
  
  At the very end I stayed up late just to see the final cutscene and the last boss will probably 
 please some Doom fans although you hardly need to shoot it.... you'll see :-)
  
  All in all, Doom 3 is a VERY nice game to look at, pretty fun in most parts, very nice to listen 
 to, (just wait until you hear the chain saws coming up from behind) but does get a little repetitive.
 
  
  Worth playing but probably requires breaks :-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drupijs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:29 am PT
Review:  This game is definetly for those who loved last parts of Doom. I doubt that someone who didnt play 
 the old Doom wil like this one wery much. The good things about this game is that the graphicks 
 are realy great but in the main time awerage PC can handle them well. I also like that it is a 
 little scary. Beeing in pitch dark room and sudenly attacked by zombies whom you didnt saw in the 
 dark it is the thing which you wont see in everyday game.
  I didnt like that its the same old Doom - go take the key and unlock tehe door and same in the 
 next room. So i classified it as old-schoo ( with good graphic) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleydiablo
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  ... Then your pretty bad @ss!
  
  If you enjoy scary movies, and enjoy the whole resident evil games, where this jump out of nowhere 
 at you? This is the game for you!
  
  If you don't like to go watch a scary movies, and will most likely not enjoy play games in the 
 dark? You will pee your pants when you play this game! 
  
  Please ignore the rest of this.
  
  DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM 
 DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM 
 DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM 
 DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM 
 DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM 
 DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM 
 DOOM DOOM DOOM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wings7
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3... the graphics really drive this game; they are truly amazing worth the current price ($20) . 
 The game will definitely get your heart pumping, make you sweat and give you an adrenaline rush 
 beyond belief. Then it leaves you empty after awhile, wanting more interaction with the ingenious 
 PDA. Its fun and satisfying killing all the bad guys and (terrific looking) monsters and demons. 
 The PDA is a great little invention, but they should have added more to it. The interaction with 
 the good guys is also good, but again they should have added more interaction with them. Id recommend 
 this game to anyone that likes a 1st person shooter... but youll only get your heart pumping and 
 enjoy the eye popping graphics. You need the current computer hardware (at least a gig of RAM and 
 a mid to high end graphics card) to really make the game flow well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmacalpine
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 can be fun... for the first little while. While the graphics are excellent and the gameplay 
 is hard n' fast shooting, the game is, erm, dark... A LOT. To the photophobic this game may be 
 a veritable classic, but for the rest of us it's tired, dull, repetitive and boring.
  
  Doom 3 was never meant to offer anything new and let's face it, was never going to stray too far 
 off the garden path... but predictable enemy placement, repetitive environments and just plain 
 tediousness drag it straight down to the fires of hell rather than raising it to classic-dom, as 
 it could and should have been.
  
  Like finding out your gorgeous new girlfriend has two kids, this one is sure to dissappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3dRuM2k5
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  Wow well worth the wait for sure and how long was it it felt like 10 yrs 
  
  -Story-
  not the best but fool of good things to unlock and solve for sure
  
  -characters-
  nice nice 
 not to bad but not really any history on them which helps for the more realistic thing yah know
 
  
  -demons-
  the best i have seen yet and with the zombie added great and the boss demons are beyond anything 
 i thought of great battles and looks for sure
  
  -guns-
  do i even have to speak for this they all kick A$$
  
  -over all-
  great game go out and get 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ev0l
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is sooo creepy. Turn out the lights, turn the volume up. The level: Hell, is one of the 
 most amazing levels I have ever played in a game. It is breath taking. Thank God someone came out 
 with a flashlight mod. The levels can get tedious after a while. I was disapointed the after making 
 it a ways through game you have to go back to some of the more boring begining levels. Multiplayer 
 sucks but that is not what this game is about. The graphics and sound are just amazing. Just think 
 this game is the showcase for the new engine. I can't wait to see whats in store. All-in-all this 
 was a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSHMA
Rating: 4.9
Date: Oct 24, 2005 5:46 am PT
Review:  There were three distinct stages of progression for me with Doom3:
  
  I. Excitement
  II. Annoyance
  III. Acceptance
  
  I. Excitement (100% Health)
  
  I made it a point to 
 be at the local Babbages store right when they opened on release day, and ran (drove, but quickly) 
 home to decimate the box and immediately install onto my not exactly new PC (P4, 2.8 GHz, 512mb 
 RAM) . Prior to plucking the box off the shelf I asked the kind salesperson where I could find the 
 Unreal Tournament 2004-ish DVD version of the game. You know, the one that doesnt have sixty-seven 
 CDs for me to damage/loose? 
  
  Sorry, dude, he said, that version doesnt exist.
  I see. I replied, laying down my plastic ticket to gibbing goodness.
  
  Once home, I savored 
 the manuals, the quick-view-key-cheat-sheet and even the InstallShield launcher. If you were at 
 my house youd hear oooooh for about 20 minutes. After I finally stopped futzing over the packed 
 in materials, I installed the game that I hoped would define the next 30-40 hours of game time. 
 I was pretty confident that my experience would be acceptable to good, based on how well FarCry 
 played and looked.
  
  II. Annoyance (75% Health)
  
  After playing the game for a few hours, my overall reaction can be summed up in two statements:
 
  
  UmIts really dark. Whatumwhat is that over there gurgling at me? Dunno, but lets unload some 
 buck-shot into its head, just in case.
  
  And...
  
  Hey! Was that monster in a closet? Whoa! Was that a closet in a closet with another monster in 
 it?
  
  Dont get me wrong, the graphics, even on my rig which doesnt have the highest end video card, 
 were spectacular, and the mood was very, er, moody. I was constantly terrified of the community 
 bathrooms (in the game and in real-life) and the deep, dank, dark corridors and the monsters... that 
 I could see.
  
  Therein lay my first major problem, the game is just too dark. Ok ok, I get the mood, and Im sure 
 youve read this before, but dark gets really old in a video game. Worse, Doom3 throws contrivances 
 at you that are just a little too high a hurdle to get over mentally. 
  
  Is it really feasible, even in a fairly outlandish video game about teleportation and Hell, that 
 the space marines dont have night vision or flashlights on their guns or, heck, even diesel generators 
 as backup power? 
  
  My second major issue with the game is the lengths ID went to create a spooky environment. Ok, 
 the first 10 times you get surprised by the monster in the closet, but the next seventy-seven thousand 
 timeswell, it gets old. I went from creeping through the environment, one slow step at a time, 
 to just running and blasting everything that moved. Now, that may be the point of a Doom game, 
 but then why bother with all the darkness? The effect wore off pretty quickly.
  III. Acceptance (10% Health)
  
  So where am I now? Ive accepted that the game play is pretty 
 lackluster, but the graphics are amazing, and its not much better than the last shooter I played. 
 But thats ok, since I love shooters. I just hoped for more, ya know? Something really special. 
 Something like, well like when I played Doom for the first time. Everything was innovative, everything 
 was fresh. Doom3 isnt exactly fresh, but its a blast to play, if you do it from the right mindset.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joewild
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 2:57 am PT
Review:  What a game, 10 minutes in to it and your already scared stiff.
  graphics are amazing - if you have a good pc. Running it on all top settings makes the game slick, 
 realistic, and freaky. Lots of gory ideas in this game, from headless zombies to walls made out 
 of flesh. Slightly limited arsenal of weaponry, however the sheer power, and fun you get out of 
 some of the wapons makes up for it with ease.
  
  Good, solid storyline too, but the game mainly relies on full on action to imerse the player rather 
 than dragging you in to the plot.
  
  A must buy if your into fps's with style 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegetaforever
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game first before the xbox came out and i was sooo happy this game came out until 
 i found out that my flippin computer couldn't keep up with it!!!!
  
  i was sooo mad at that it couldn't work because i am a long time Doom and Quake fan since the 90's, 
 but noooo it didn't wanna cooperative with me grrr.
  
  So i was stuck with the great screen shots until the it came out for the Xbox.
  
  In the end, 
 i sold it to a friend for $10 more then the price (because he's an butthole to me) and he couldn't 
 run it either tehehe.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netjack
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Doom starded out as an ordinary game, with strange gameplay amd an emersive world that took a very 
 long time for gamers to get used to. The game seemed real in some sort of way, the game was in 
 a 1`st point of view, and you can see the gun that your holding right in-front of you. This wasn`t 
 a "Pac-Man" or a "Mario", this was something  new genre came 
 by, it was now called, the first-person shooter, a genre which all gamers love, even today...
 
  
  Doom turned out famous! All gamers wanted more from "one of the most greatest games of all time 
 -PC gamer". Many people made MODs that made gamers supirisingly happy, for the most part, they 
 wanted more doom, not other things from people. Id made a sequel, DoomII, which brang the market 
 by storm by over 40million copies world wide. And then an expansion pack, Final Doom, which sold 
 the same. All thanks to this game, we woudln`t have Half-Life, Halo, Medal of Honor, and others 
 that are in the market! 
  
  Id software has been making other titels like Quake, Hexen, Wolfenstein, and not a single Doom 
 titel in sight. All gamers have been waiting for a word... A sequel... A something for a sequel, 
 and they got it..... Doom3!
  
  Doom3 is a remake of the first doom with a better explanasion on what the demons are, what the 
 demons were through in the past, and what they were planning to do in the future and these things 
 really bring the story to a big insider of your experience with the game and yes everyone, it`s 
 freaking great. 
  
  Doom3 takes off the same time as Doom1. You play as... Marine (a marine) and you settle off peacfully 
 in the UAC corporation, a place which scientist rule the area and find the truth of things to change 
 the world forever... When you stumble off, you have a mission briefing to find a missing scientist 
 somewhere inside of the base. Soon later, when you find him, the scientist was in the bottom of 
 the base for many weeks trying to stop something from getting to Earth... Hell its self. When he 
 tries to tell Earth what is happening, all hell brakes loose! Now you, a soldier, trying to stop 
 this madness, must also stop Hell from getting to Earth, or the apocylapse shall rise. The story 
 is sounds great, but the story gets better and better every level when you know about the demons 
 and their liking.
  
  To make sense of it, Doom is a very scary and disturbing game, the BOO scares aren`t very scary, 
 but the sounds you hear are. You`ll hear whispering, growls, and voices out of no where and you`ll 
 see blood, red lights, and gut sackets on clean metal and the most scariest thing on what makes 
 the game go to the gameplay mark...... The darkness. The game is ALWAYS dark, and the only way to 
 get out of it is the one and only flashlight. The flashlight is an important aspect in the game 
 and without it, the game would almost be impossible so you must use the light at the right time 
 in combat situations and alone situations. One thing that is very werid in a game that takes place 
 in the 25th century is that you have ot carry a flashlight in your hand, not on your gun, but there 
 is one futuristic detail about the light though, it doesn`t run out of batteries. Eventhough, without 
 the flashlight the game wouldn`t be tense and creepy as it is, so the flashlight actually brings 
 horror, first-person shooters revolutionaryin everyway.
  
  Oh, and did I forget that Doom3 looks amazing? Doom3 is the best looking game ever made. Period. 
 All thanks to the visuals, the gameplay turns into life, and that is all thanks to the shadows 
 and lighting effects that you mostly see in the game. One thing I really love about the visuals 
 is the creepy atmosphere, you`ll see blood crawl on walls and dead bodies hanging and still moving! 
 When ever your done seeing the suffering from other people, you breath with fear in your heart, 
 and you just want to back away from the game, but you can`t since the story draws you in, in the 
 expierience.
  
  Sound plays an important role in the game also. The sound effects you sometimes hear can actually 
 be music. So, when you hear light generators humming in an electric sound very fast, they can turn 
 out to be action music from enemies your fighting. The voice acters are preaty darn good in the 
 begining, but later in the game, they will sound to simple and repeatish like,"You`re going to 
 die marine". When you hear the badguy say that, lets just say, it may sound interesting at first, 
 but the badguy will say it many times to you when you fall into a trap or when you fought alot 
 of enemies and it may sound preaty corney and less effort... ish for Idsoftware is get differnt 
 lines for their voice acters. but, when I say "an important role with the sound", Idsoftware did 
 a great job with the disturbing sounds you`ll hear in the game. You`ll hear whispers, growls, and 
 voices talking to you, when you try to find out where these sounds are coming from, you see nothing. 
 The voices you hear in the game actually play an important role in the story, since you`re going 
 to find out where they come from and what they are.
  
  For a very anticapetated game, you expect it to be long and fun, long and fun is right for the 
 game. Doom3 is about 15-20 hours long and if you want to find ammo, the game may take longer. Even 
 find all of the PDAs (which i`ll get to later) that may also take you a few more hours to find 
 all of them. So, what are PDAs? PDAs are little computers on what all scientist (which are all 
 dead) to get security clearence to get to locked doors. PDAs are also used to get the story up 
 the tip. The PDAs in the begining are boring to hear and you only want to hear them just for the 
 ammo and health. 
  
  So, was Doom3 worth the wait, yes it definatly was. But, if you want the game to be tense and fun 
 as ever, I recommend to play the game on the Hardest difficulty setting since the game is very 
 easy on the moderated one. If your a doom lover, you should get the game now, if you love FPS and 
 you want to get many scares on you day, this game is for you, because this is quite possibly the 
 best horror, sci-fi action game evermade. Period.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007virus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 12:12 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this was an awsome game, the level of difficulty and suspense in the game is just 
 undepletable. I enjoyed how well it was put together and how it kept me on my toes through the 
 whole game, and jumping out of my seat. The imagination of the creaters and story writers deserve 
 a big pat on the back, they created a masterpiece. To compare this to other suspence and thriller 
 games, it is almost like it was ahead of its time, making the game more in the future, but not 
 to far, and making it seem so real and yet still letting u know that something like this could 
 never happen, only with a pen and paper, or in out minds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungfar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Many reviewers and journalists have issues with Doom 3's gameplay, and they are all right. But 
 where the game comes up short with original gameplay, it more than makes up for with one of the 
 most immersive and tense FPS experiences available. Unbeleivable graphics and sound are just gravy. 
 Multiplayer is the one thing thing that isn't really up to par. It almost seems like a developer 
 afterthought, but can be mildly entertaining. But this game is all about the single player experience 
 anyway. Alone in the dark and sober is the real way to play this game. The scares can be cheap 
 (demon in a closet) at times, but are very effective nonetheless. If horror, gore and suspense 
 are your bag Doom 3 definitely delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kau83
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Man its scary...
  u get into the play so immensly that u start feeling the fear grabbing u... nice game play... awesome 
 graphics and most important thing is awesome sound. man, the ghosts are bad and the plot is also 
 so mistifying that it perfectly assist gameplay to build the tension.... good weapons...
  
  But this game leaves u alone not good to play when u r Depressed :)
  sometimes slows down PC... 
 needs really high system config....
  
  Hero should have been more strong with more companions then it would have been gr8 to play... :)
 
  Overall nice one to 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Resistance_8
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  When I began to play Doom 3, I thought it would fit in with Half Life 2, and Far Cry, but after 
 a few hours of gameplay, I was saddened to find that this game has one simple idea. A demon appears, 
 you kill it, you get out your flashlight and move on, a demon appears, you kill it, etc. etc. This 
 continues and is only broken by the few boss fights and the tedious chore of reading, and listening 
 to other peoples' emails on your PDA to find a door code.
  
  If repetitive non-stop action is your thing, this game is for you, meanwhile I will use my copy 
 of Doom 3 as a coaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_Blu3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Doom starded out as an ordinary game, with strange gameplay and an emersive world that took a very 
 long time for gamers to get used to. The game seemed real in some sort of way, the game was in 
 a 1`st point of view, and you can see the gun that your holding right in-front of you. This wasn`t 
 a "Pac-Man" or a "Mario", this was something  new genre came 
 by, it was now called, the first-person shooter, a genre which all gamers love, even today...
 
  
  Doom turned out famous! All gamers wanted more from "one of the most greatest games of all time 
 -PC gamer". Many people made MODs that made gamers supirisingly happy, for the most part, they 
 wanted more doom, not other things from people. Id made a sequel, DoomII, which brang the market 
 by storm by over 40million copies world wide. And then an expansion pack, Final Doom, which sold 
 the same. All thanks to this game, we woudln`t have Half-Life, Halo, Medal of Honor, and others 
 that are in the market! 
  
  Id software has been making other titels like Quake, Hexen, Wolfenstein, and not a single Doom 
 titel in sight. All gamers have been waiting for a word... A sequel... A something, and they got 
 it..... Doom3!
  
  Doom3 is a remake of the first doom with a better explanasion on what the demons are, what the 
 demons were through in the past, and what they were planning to do in the future and these things 
 really bring the story to a big insider of your experience with the game and yes everyone, it`s 
 freaking great. 
  
  Doom3 takes off the same time as Doom1. You play as... Marine (a marine) and you settle off peacfully 
 in the UAC corporation, a place which scientist rule the area and find the truth of things to change 
 the world forever... When you stumble off, you have a mission briefing to find a missing scientist 
 somewhere inside of the base. Soon later, when you find him, the scientist was in the bottom of 
 the base for many weeks trying to stop something from getting to Earth... Hell its self. When he 
 tries to tell Earth what is happening, all hell brakes loose! Now you, a soldier, trying to stop 
 this madness, must also stop Hell from getting to Earth, or the apocylapse shall rise. The story 
 sounds great, but the story gets better and better every level when you know about the demon`s 
 origin, their enemy, and their master.
  
  To make sense of it, Doom is a very scary and disturbing game. The BOO scares aren`t very scary 
 since the demons pop-out of creepy places on where you would expect them to pop-out at, but the 
 sounds you hear are scary, and disturbing at the same time. You`ll hear whispering, growls, and 
 voices out of no where and you`ll see blood, red lights, and gut sackets on clean metal and the 
 most scariest thing on what makes the game go to the gameplay mark: The darkness. The game is always 
 dark, and the only way to get out of it is the one and only flashlight. The flashlight is an important 
 aspect in the game and without it, the game would almost be impossible so you must use the light 
 at the right time in combat situations and alone situations. One thing that is very werid in a 
 game that takes place in the 25th century is that you have ot carry a flashlight in your hand, 
 not on your gun, but there is one futuristic detail about the light though, it doesn`t run out 
 of batteries. Eventhough, without the flashlight the game wouldn`t be tense and creepy as it is, 
 so the flashlight actually brings horror, first-person shooters have a revolutionary touch here 
 and there. There is also one thing in the game called PDAs. No, these aren`t the PDAs we use to 
 hear music, movies, ect. These PDAs are little computers on what all scientist (which are all dead) 
 get security clearence to get locked doors opened and to gain messages from their friends, bosses, 
 and so on. PDAs are also used to get the story up the tip since the scientist will talk about how 
 most of the things about the demons, and how they were here in the first place. The PDAs in the 
 begining are boring to hear and you only want to hear them just for the ammo and health that are 
 in storage lockers the need a code to open it, but they really get you excited when you hear about 
 what is going on and what the scientist were doing that starded this mess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djseebee
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  the game makes u feel like u are the only survivor at this planet .. very scary brillent effects 
 ... nice story .. but the ending need more adjustment .. i enjoyed all the hours playing it .. 
 u should have a look ... try demo and u will never regret 
  
  P. S. my advice to play it with highley machine performence .. the graphic would be more attractive 
 ...
  
  thank u .. and enjoy the game
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: conquerorsaint
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 22, 2005 1:29 am PT
Review:  what else can i say about this game that hasn't been mentioned before? immersive? check. action 
 packed? check. although it is also not without its faults. it can get monotonous at some parts 
 since most areas look alike with just rearranged sets. the quick save is a god send since you'll 
 have to constantly reload the game when caught unawares by the enemies which cheaply attack from 
 out of nowhere. though the trial and error is sometimes frustrating, but rewarding. the atmosphere 
 is calm in the beginning and then thrusts you in the middle of a horrific scenario. although sadly 
 this atmosphere is gone by the end of the game since you've probably been desensitized along the 
 way by the game's numerous scares. you'll want to see it through to the end. though the last boss 
 leaves a lot to be desired. overall a great ride. good job id! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrautava
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Action:
  This is like chess. I like action, real action like Painkiller, so this was just killing time. 
 Or wasting it would be better expression.
  
  Story:
  Did this game had one? I it had I miss it. Or I did not want to spoil the mood...
  
  Enemies:
 
  First 30 min they where scary, but then you learn the pattern and know when and where they come 
 up. So it was really boring time to time.
  
  Weapons:
  Ten years back and these would be new stuff, but now the are the same in every game... So we still 
 wait new weapons.
  
  Total Score 6.8 (and there is some extra)
  I really miss old great DOOM. Why I pllay this new one? I could find many better ways to spen my 
 day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwolfghost
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is a real great thriller for those who can handle it. It has alot of addons since Doom 
 2 and thats to be expected since it took about 5 years to come out. The one thing that you will 
 like about this game are the graphics. id really took the graphics level to the next level in this 
 thriller RPG.
  
  The start of the game is mostly the missing intro to the game. To make you apperciate the graphics 
 id made a long trail of walking missions so you can look at all the special features of the area 
 such as people talking about wierd things happening down in the Delta Sector, people talking, eating, 
 as well as watching TV in the caffeteria. They even went as far to put the option of closing and 
 opening the blinds which give you an exaple of the shading effects. After spending some time playing 
 the Super Turker Smasher 3 you make your way to Sarg. who then tells you to follow the bot to the 
 sector where you should find the missing scientist. Along the way you can see the interactive things 
 you are able to do in the game.
  
  When at the sector you can see the freeky conditions the people must work and you can take a trip 
 on Mars as well. When you find the scientist he says some freeky things and all hell breaks lose! 
 What happens after that? Well you will just have to buy the game to see.
  
  Throughout it you must make a decision that could change the face of the Earth and you learn more 
 about what is going on through the device called an APU (I think) . It allows you to read messages 
 and listen to logs of the workers and there stories on the gate.
  
  All in all its got a massive story line wich will keep you going a second time and maybe a third 
 time through as you try to beat the brutilly hard level Nightmare! It will test the skills and 
 reaction time of the expert gamers, I mean it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apennismightier
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2005 1:18 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is light years beyond any game I've played. Not only was it THE scariest game I've ever 
 played since the original Resident Evil when I was much younger, it also was probably the most 
 fun.
  
  The linear storyline and stage mapping was set up so that even the most inexperienced gamer wouldn't 
 be frustrated with finding objectives. The graphics were superb, as well as the sound. Playing 
 with a 5.1, 4 speaker surround sound system only added to the horror.
  
  Must have jumped out of my seat every 10 seconds, even after I became wise as to when and where 
 to expect enemies to jump out of or appear. I seriously had to mentally prepare myself before playing 
 each time for the scares. It should definitely win an award for sound if not graphics.
  
  While the only thing that bothered me was that you couldn't see anything while holding a gun, switching 
 from flashlight to gun became a chore and resulted in many many deaths before I became fed up and 
 yes... unfortunately downloaded a flashlight MOD for my guns. While it IS technically cheating, 
 it still made the game scary as hell. Recommend to anyone without heart conditions, pregnant, etc. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uncommon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  I usually don't play too many horror games, but I've always been a fan of Doom. I played the original 
 Doom on the PC when I was really young. I still remember loading dos and typing "cd doom" and the 
 "doom" to get it to run. I think this game really stays true to the original, and is an enjoyable 
 experience for anyone who likes first person shooters. The first 15 minutes of the game are probably 
 the scariest although I constantly catch my self leaping back in my seat. I may scare pretty easilly 
 but that just adds to the overall enjoyment of the game. I would recommend this game to anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kashif357
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:47 am PT
Review:  i will give this game a 5 out of 5 i just loved doom3 .... despite of being a straightforward FPS 
 .. it rocks. it's simply amazing... it was worth the wait... typical ID style .. the engine is revolutionary 
 and the graphics are OUT OF THIS WORLD... the scares... chills and thrills make doom 3 a STAND OUT 
 in the crowd...
  the story ,setup and the theme of the game are top notch... i have always been a lover of the ID 
 games,, the only thing that bothered me a little was the performance issues i had with AA enabled... cuz 
 i am using an ATI X00 pro.. anyhow ,i love it .. playing it with 1024x768 ultra detail.. it really 
 looks gorgeous 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kombi
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Ya, it's looking good. ID never really released a game that looked bad... But imho, ID also never 
 released a very good game since Quake1. Doom3 scores easy control schemes, quick learning curve, 
 very nice graphics (allthough overly dark) and it's ... well... Doom. The gameplay however isn't 
 really up to the title. While the earlier Doom's featured hundrets of enemys at the same time, 
 this had to be cut down on D3 (for obvious system breakdown reasons) , leaving a shooter that feels 
 a LOT slower. The biggest flaw imo is the monster spawning system. They either "teleport" in (often 
 behind you) , or come out of hidden walls. (what the hell did they do in there anyways????????) . 
 These booh-scares get old very fast, and are in most cases extremely predictable, and also annoying. 
 The psychologic scares they startet (screaming women, voices ...) weren't really completed, like 
 in once scene, you hear a voice of a woman tanking about her baby, and a bloody trail going through 
 a door. The door is locked. End. You continue and this scene is never ever explained again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meforero
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 18, 2005 6:37 am PT
Review:  I seem that the game is monotonous (the self 2 but good texture) , and very dark, the 3d person 
 accoralate in build is last time, Jhon and ID don't develop good game, the texture are excelent 
 but the game not, follow with far cry and Unreal. 
  I seem that the game is monotonous (the self 2 but good texture) , and very dark, the 3d person 
 accoralate in build is last time, Jhon and ID don't develop good game, the texture are excelent 
 but the game not, follow with far cry and Unreal.
  I seem that the game is monotonous (the self 2 but good texture) , and very dark, the 3d person 
 accoralate in build is last time, Jhon and ID don't develop good game, the texture are excelent 
 but the game not, follow with far cry and Unreal.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: one-ring
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 17, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I was a little bit on the edge of my seat but as I went along I learned 
 to ALWAYS expect a surprise everywhere you go. The interesting thing is you can't really go anywhere 
 without anything happening. Like pumping lead into a demon or some sort of pipe to just blow and 
 send sparks flying everywhere. It was always cool finding a new PDA or video disk because it made 
 you feel like you had some more knowledge over the demon hordes sent against you. Another great 
 thing was finding a new weapon because it's always nice to have a new toy play with. Especially 
 if it helps you annihilate a room full of enemies with a couple rounds. The graphics are quite 
 stunning especially with 1600x1200 resolution and Ultra Quality. (I have a 512MB video card so 
 I get no stuttering or lagging there.) The only thing I thought this game missed was the true core 
 of a First Person Shooter. The difficulty truly stands even on easy difficulty but I prefer to 
 play on Nightmare difficulty. Overall this is a great game for people interested in lengthy FPS's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dthwish09
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 16, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my top 10 favourite games of all time, its was the best game I had played on my 
 new PC and the multi-player was smooth and addictive. One of the best PC games ever. If you are 
 to but 3 games this summer make it Half-Life 2, F. E. A. R., and Doom 3.
  
  This is one of my top 10 favourite games of all time, its was the best game I had played on my 
 new PC and the multi-player was smooth and addictive. One of the best PC games ever. If you are 
 to but 3 games this summer make it Half-Life 2, F. E. A. R., and Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Targzissian
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 4:43 am PT
Review:  I bought this game when I saw it on sale for $30. After waiting several months I finally installed 
 it. I hear Doom plays better on nVidia graphics cards, and coincidentally I just upgraded from 
 my ATI Radeon 9800XT to an nVidia GeForce 6800GT a couple weeks before installing the game. The 
 game came on 3 CDs instead of a single DVD, which made the install more tedious than it needed 
 to be. I was disappointed to find out that this game, which is supposed to show off the capabilities 
 of my graphics card, is limited to 1600 x 1200 resolution. On my old ATI card I was able to play 
 Half-Life 2 at 1920 x 1200, which looks great on a wide screen monitor. After I played Doom 3 for 
 a few minutes I downloaded and installed the 1.3 patch, but that still didn't offer higher resolutions. 
 Perhaps I need to download a mod for Doom 3 to support higher resolutions. Games like this should 
 support all resolutions that your graphics card and monitor can support. I hate it when the game 
 makers restrict the resolutions you can use. But at least Doom 3 doesn't make me nauseous like 
 Half-Life 2 did.
  
  It's true what they say that Doom 3 is very dark, and probably darker than it should be for the 
 optimal gaming experience. I found it was a good idea to probe around in dark corners for ammunition 
 and armor, which your character will automatically pick up even if you can't actually see them.
 
  
  When I could see things, like facial animations during the cut-scenes and so forth, the textures 
 were absolutely first rate. I think Half-Life 2 had slighty better textures and graphics, as well 
 as a much better physics engine and a more interactive environment, but it is not exactly the same 
 kind of game. I suppose, apart from the limited resolution, the feature of the graphics that most 
 annoyed me was the limited polygon count. Specifically, people's heads, the planet Mars, and other 
 rounded objects are not actually as round as they should be. But, on the other hand, the graphics 
 are much better than a lot of games out today.
  
  For the brief time I've played so far I found the difficulty just about right. I died a couple 
 times in situations where a novice like me should expect to die, but with more experience it looks 
 like I'll learn ways to survive those situations.
  
  The sound was well done, except when I enabled EAX 4.0 I found there was a little bit too much 
 echo when people spoke. Overall, though, I liked the sound.
  
  If you like the horror-survival genre, and like first-person shooters, then you will like Doom 
 3, even if it is not the end all and be all when it comes to showing off what modern hardware is 
 capable of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a while a game comes out that revolutionizes how we look at games. Doom 3 is the 
 newest to do so. The game has absolutely jaw-dropping graphics, looking much better than the later 
 released Half-LIfe 2. 
  
  Enough cannot be said about this game. The gameplay, the sounds, and OHHHH the graphics! The game 
 is also one of the spookiest shooters to date, and the sounds are very well done as well. But, 
 the visuals is what the game trully excells in. Shadowing of the backrounds and weapons is amazing. 
 The demons you encounter, and very well designed, and look great too.
  
  Doom itself has been a revolutionary series. The original practically started the 1st person shooter 
 era. Now this game is the benchmark of graphics. Games like Half-Life 2 and Far Cry do have excellent 
 graphics too, but not near this level.
  
  The gameplay although is good, can get repetitive, as you always know something is going to come 
 from behind as you slaughtered something ahead of you.
  
  This is now one of my favorite games and is also a good deal at its current price, $19.99. Pick 
 it up, its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -generic-
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Being the third instalment from the fathers of FPS, Doom 3 along with Half-Life 2 were two of the 
 most anticipated games ever, but only one of those two lived up to the hype, and it sure as hell 
 isn't this game.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay wise, Doom 3 just sucks, it's not the classic run 'n gun type of gameplay I'm complaining 
 about, it's the fact that you can't see crap, even with the flashlight your visibility is next 
 to zero. Sure, darkness is a key ingredient to a creepy atmosphere, but this is just ridiculous. 
 Even before the disaster or after activating a power generator, the levels are very dim. A dark 
 section here and there would've worked better, but the darkness was grossly overused.
  
  As for the gameplay and combat, the game uses cheap tactics like placing a monster behind a door 
 and leaping out at you. While that is good for a scare or two, using it over and over again just 
 gets repetitive. Doom 3 mostly tries to shock you, but doesn't really scare you, and constantly 
 spawning enemies behind you is unimaginative and annoying. The worse aspect of this game is the 
 doublevision effect - when you get hit, your view distorts and spasms wildly, making any means 
 of fighting the enemy far more difficult than it should be, which I found HIGHLY AGGRAVATING. I 
 cannot stress enough how much of an anti-feature that was, the idiot at id who came up with it 
 should get punched in the face. Twice. Fighting the zombie security guards carrying machine guns 
 is downright infuriating, since they have near perfect aim and you can't aim when they shoot you.
 
  
  The AI is the bare minimum, ranged enemies will attack as soon as they see you, with extra assistance 
 like perfect aim and reaction time while melee enemies will charge at you and then constantly take 
 slugs. As for the multiplayer, it was a joke. 4 players?! I thought this was 2004, not 1994. Resurrection 
 of Evil's 8 players isn't exactly impressive either.
  
  Graphics:
  Doom 3's graphics are great, or at least the parts you can see, unfortunately some characters, 
 especially humans, have a visible line down the middle of their faces where the two images of their 
 face meet, and many blocky things are just illusional flat surfaces. The textures are crisp and 
 detailed and other effects like the growths were very well done. I can't really comment on how 
 the monsters look, because frankly, I could barely see them. If you're going to scare the bejesus 
 out of me with ferocious hellspawn, at least let me SEE them!
  
  Something that got me was how everything disintegrated into nothing. What's the matter? Too lazy 
 to add gibs? It would've been a nice effect for maybe one certain monster to fizzle away giving 
 it some uniqueness and a nice hellish touch, but not for *everything*. Overused.
  
  Sound:
  The sound was very well done for the atmosphere, the random bangings, whispers and quiet 
 ambient music all added to a feeling of despair and depression with everyone being dead and you 
 being on your own. However, the weapons sounded very underpowered, the machine gun sounded like 
 a glorified BB gun and the shotgun gave a feeble ploomph . There were only 2 different sounds for 
 the flashlight melee attack, a donk for anything solid and ploop for everything else. The fists 
 used the same doop sound over again. Monsters could also have sounded beefier and scarier, IMPs 
 gave a not-so-scary wail while Hellknights just growled and not give out a loud solid roar (outside 
 of cutscenes) .
  
  Value:
  Predictable, linear and frustrating gameplay with a pitiful multiplayer doesn't give this game 
 much replay value at all, especially since I shelled out &pound;35 (~$65) for it.
  
  Conclusion:
  Doom 3 will probably please graphics buffs and ID diehards, but aside from that, 
 it's basically a run-of-the-mill game involving getting the X credential PDA to open X clearance 
 door corridor crawl where all the lights are on dimmers set to low. It has overused too many scare 
 techniques that they are no longer scary. It's also a game you won't be playing on LANS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyuri
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 7:08 am PT
Review:  The start of Doom 3 presents an atmosphere that is very dark and gloomy along with an atmosphere 
 of sounds that makes the area seem alive, thats pretty much how its going to stay throughout the 
 game. Doom relies heavily on sound an visual effects to draw you into the game and place you in 
 a very scary set of surroundings. If you're one of those people who watches scary movies and really 
 doesn't think they're scary at all then you will probably think that Doom 3 is just a wash over 
 and not very interesting at all.
  
  The general look and feel of the GUI if fairly intuitive.. about 1 minute into the game you are 
 given a personal data assistant (PDA) which is really the only thing you need to know how to use 
 since it is where you read emails and review your objectives throughout the game. Your PDA can 
 be accessed any time during gameplay by pressing the Tab key.
  
  The gameplay is as important as any other aspect of a game, but in Doom 3 is it falls short of 
 spectacular. While there is nothing wrong with the way your character moves about and interacts 
 with objects there is just that feeling that it could have done with a little more play testing 
 and tweaking before being finalized.
  
  The graphics are where Doom 3 shines, putting you in an environment rich with bump-mapped surfaces 
 and shadows off all objects in the scene. While walking (well, running) through the levels of doom 
 you sometimes cannot help but stop and take in some of the graphical glory, such as swinging light 
 fixtures which make shadows jump as it sways back and forth.
  
  Another area where Doom 3 shines is with the very atmospheric sound effects which really do make 
 you jump and the right moments and feel calm others. A lot of the time in Doom you're moving through 
 dark passages past even darker corners which may or may not have a demon lurking in them, and the 
 sound effects really do enhance this feeling well. Every sound in Doom has a very distinct feeling 
 attached to it which helps mold the way the game feels and play with your emotions the way all 
 good scary motion sequences do
  
  The story that Doom 3 follows is that of a marine who gets sent to a station on the planet mars 
 where he will join a squad of fellow marines in the day-to-day security type jobs around a research 
 facility. One of the scientists opens a portal to hell and all these demons come through trying 
 to kill everything (no friendly demons in Doom I'm afraid) . Thats brief of the game's story, but 
 in action it is a lot more complicated, yet straight-forward enough not to complicate things and 
 lets you focus on the action.
  
  Do not buy Doom 3 expecting good value for money, because sadly enough there is hardly any good 
 replay value, poor multiplayer, and not many worthwhile mod's for the game. That said, Doom 3 is 
 a very scary game which i would very highly recommend to anyone who enjoys entertainment of this 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_knight150
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 4:29 am PT
Review:  Well here we find the next installment to the Doom series, and it was definitly worth the wait. 
 With the graphics and ambience through out the entire game, it keeps you on edge the entire time, 
 waiting to see what's around the next corner (or what's behind you!) . Even when there aren't any 
 enemies around, the sound of hell can be heard through every corridor and hallway. The graphics 
 too certainly add to the intense experience you'll have, along with adding to the environment, 
 especially when you're teleported down to hell.
  The AI also comes at you hard at moments. They'll teleport and attack from behind you, and some 
 of the later enemies are fierce and extremely scary. My favorite aspect, presented later in the 
 game, is the soul cube which kicks complete ass. After four or so kills, the soul cube can be used 
 to wipe out any enemy you shoot it at and will instantly replenish your health. 
  This game was fantastic, but my only complaint would be it got a little too repetitive towards 
 the end of the game. The bosses do mix it up however, so it isn't too much of an issue. All and 
 all, this game is completely worthit and will leave you wanting more Doom (they have an expansion 
 for anyone who's been living under a rock for the past few months) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junk56
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 12, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Wow when i first bought this game i was stunned on the shaders and such. The game looks absoluetly 
 amazing. The gameplay and the freakiness and nature of the atmosphere really touches in and scares 
 you if you're alone in the dark. Otherwise, this game isn't all that freaky unless you get scared 
 very easily. So if you're looking for a great graphical, shootem up game, this might be the game 
 for you. There are some things that get me a bit mad while playing.....
  
  Firstly, the weapons sound very very underpowered. The pistol and machinegun sound horribly weak. 
 The shotgun and plasma rifles are fine but the ones with bullets in them seem very weak indeed. 
 Very fun blasting zombies right in their face but its very annoying because when you get hit with 
 a melee attack, your screen is lurged so far off by the time you center on the enemy again, he 
 hits you. Its very hard to aim while vs a melee attacker and they could've at least weakened the 
 head swing/bob when u were hit....
  
  Secondly, WHERE'S THE TECHNOLOGY??? Even cops can hold a flashlight and gun at the same time! Even 
 my baby sister is smart enough to attach a mini flashlight to her glasses when shes too scared 
 to go downstairs at night! They get plasma rifles, a settlement on mars, pressure thingys, and 
 yet they still fail to have a headlamp. You can wipe out gigantic armies and waves of zombies, 
 then why the hell would your other "marine" buddies have trouble killing 1 of them!
  
  Finally, overall this game is NOT scary. There ARE some moments where you are scared, BUT ITS BECAUSE 
 YOU CANT SEE A THING! It's dark and that's great but you cant hold your flashlight and the gun 
 at the same time so by the time u switch and shoot, that guy is behind you or something without 
 you knowing! Overall, get this game if wanna experience something u havent because the graphics 
 are outstanding to this date and the scariness and environment are kind of well put together. They 
 could've definitely fixed up some gameplay, weapon sounds, and multiplayer. THe multplayer is horrendously 
 bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death-Moneo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:10 am PT
Review:  This game is very good. It got perfect graphics and its really interesting to play it. But its 
 really dificult to pass all it. But i didnt liked that you cannot turno on the flashlight having 
 a gun... This game is really good, and really scary. I played the demo... Its too dificult! But 
 its very, vvery, interesting to play it, when i played the demo, i feel how i move and shoot. I 
 sent the fear in it. I was scred of that game,, but i waas really happy to have it. But the Expantion 
 pack of "Doom 3" is more better than this because there you can have that anti-grav gun. Its a 
 perfect game. I really liked it. ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoolieWool
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 26, 2005 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps one of the most anticipated games, Doom 3 has a lot to live up to. The entire Doom legacy 
 is carried by Doom 3, and expectations were huge. Does it measure up? Sort of.
  
  Those who haven't played Doom and Doom II should do so immediately. They are great old games, and 
 you will want to play them again and again. Doom 3 is a "retelling" of the original Doom, set on 
 Mars instead of its moons, and with a more contemporary sci-fi aesthetic to the game world and 
 the things in it. You're a space marine that has recently been assigned to a Union Aerospace Corporation 
 experiment when hell literally comes out of some teleporter experiment they were working on. So 
 now you have to clean the whole mess up, blasting through legions of demons who are slavering to 
 sink their claws and teeth and other sharp appendages in you (no, not those appendages...) . 
  
  Graphically, Doom 3 is the best-looking game ever made up to that point. Every surface has 
 incredible depth and the lighting effects are amazing. The normal mapping technology makes this 
 game stand head and shoulders above even such impressive games as Far Cry and Half-Life 2. It looks 
 absolutely fantastic. This beauty comes at a price -- the game requires a beefy system to extract 
 its full potential, and will punish lower-end processors and video cards at higher settings.
  
  Aesthetically, Doom 3 is a bit less stunning. The human characters are unnaturally pale and 
 look like they need to spend some time at the tanning salon. There is very little color in this 
 game -- most of the objects and environments are black or gray. The game is extremely dark, even 
 in the first level when everything's perfectly normal. This problem is exacerbated by the flashlight, 
 which cannot be carried at the same time as a weapon -- a cheap and frustrating gameplay device. 
 The flashlight can be used to bash the monsters over the head, but doing so does negligible damage. 
 The moon-base levels, objects, and weapons look rather silly, festooned with curved surfaces, pipes, 
 and wires and painted a (very) dark gray. The hell levels, on the other hand, are great -- they are 
 atmospheric, scary, and unsettling, with the haunting cries of the damned being tortured echoing 
 in the background.
  
  Gameplay consists of old-school keycard hunts interspersed with some basic puzzles. The levels 
 consist mainly of extremely tight corridors where you will fight monsters at close range. To pump 
 up the "scare" factor, they often jump out from behind, a strategy that eventually becomes repetitive 
 and trite. The gameplay isn't as fast as the original games, and you tend to fight monsters two 
 or three at a time instead of ten or fifteen at a time like in the old Doom titles. The game is 
 moderately difficult and will take about 20 hours to beat. Overall, it feels like a lesser son 
 of greater sires.
  
  Speaking of monsters, Doom 3 has a wide array of beasties from the familiar zombies (almost as 
 pathetic as those in the first game) , to the ubiquitous fireball-throwing imps to hulking hell 
 knights to bizarre creatures such as the Cherub (a sort of Frankenstein's monster of baby, housefly, 
 and mutated beast)
  
  The weapons are similar to the first game -- fist, chainsaw, pistol shotgun, chaingun, plasma rifle, 
 and an emasculated version of the BFG9000. The two new weapons are the machine gun (like the chaingun, 
 only it sucks. A lot.) and the soul cube (a bizarre device fueled by the souls of slaughtered demons 
 that will do massive damage to all enemies on the screen) . You will use the shotgun most of the 
 time, as most fights are almost point-blank.
  
  The sounds are nowhere near as good as those in the first game, especially the weapons, which sound 
 wimpy and underpowered (the pistol sounds like an air gun) . There is no music, except for the fairly 
 nice menu music. When you think about the adrenaline-pumping sound track of the first Doom, this 
 is a major letdown.
  
  The multiplayer feels like an afterthought. There are only three maps, and one gameplay mode (deathmatch) . 
 Only four players can play at once (a limit that was defeated by hacks as soon as the game came 
 out) and you have only one player model. This approach cut it in 1993, but it doesn't now.
  
  All in all, Doom 3 is a good game, but not the masterwork the original was. If you're a Doom 
 fan, this is a must buy. If you're an FPS fan, this game is also a good pick. But if you're a casual 
 gamer just looking to shoot things through the head, consider buying Unreal Tournament 2004 or 
 Far Cry (although the latter may be too hard for a casual player) .
  
  What's Hot: Absolutely amazing graphics, solid gameplay, Hell levels are very, very good
  What's 
 Not: Worthless multiplayer, some cheap gameplay tricks, Mars base levels become repetitive
  Also Try: Half-Life 2, Far Cry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 2, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  The very long awaited doom 3 finally arrives. Although the concept is quite similar to the previous 
 titles but its presented in a very good and unique style.
  
  First of all i would like to talk about the new Jaw opening graphics created by the revolutionary 
 Doom 3 Engine. They are simply amazing, the graphics could not be more better. Great texturing 
 , modelling and animation. The graphics are the main reason that would force you to be seated for 
 a long time. The lightning effects, the shadows are pretty well done. But you will be complaining 
 that "Man its too dark". This is the only con that was found from Doom 3 but the over all graphics 
 are truly exceptional. You would require a very powerful Graphics card to see all of the great 
 effects.
  
  The game play is very simple, in Doom 3 your a marine hired on mars but something goes wrong and 
 you have to survive. Doom 3's graphics maybe revolutionary but the game play is just like any good 
 old FPS Shooter. There is a variety of weapons to choose from like Shotgun, Machine gun, Chain 
 Gun and every one's favorite the Chain Saw. And the new enemies are very freaky and all have different 
 powers , weaknesses and of-course looks. some of the old classic ones are back like the Imp, lost 
 souls etc. On most occasion you'll get tired of the dark atmosphere and you'll be using your flashlight 
 more than your weapons.
  
  The reply value of Doom 3 isn't long lasting. Once you have beaten the game i would prefer getting 
 the new expansion instead of replying it on a harder difficulty.
  
  Finally Doom 3 is totally revolutionary and its a must have, even if you haven't enjoyed the previous 
 titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2005 9:24 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a good sequel, but thats only because the prequel was around 10 years ago. if it was 
 any later, doom 3 would have been a failure.
  
  Doom 3 is dark and tries to be scary with occasional voices heard and things flying around but 
 otherwise is the average shooter. 
  
  There are plenty of guns to choose from which is very nice and there is a new thing called a soul 
 cube which works well. the graphics are very impressive, theyre the best ive seen for a long time.
 
  
  Doom 3 has concentrated so much on the graphics and the details in the level, (which is all very 
 nice) , that the game has been very short. there are quite a few levels with bosses which are all 
 very challenging and all but otherwise this game isnt all that good.
  
  most of the game, you have a flashlight so you can see and you have to contunually switch between 
 that and the weapon for any chance of survival.
  
  there is an expansion pack but even thats not all that good, but if youre a hardcore fan of doom 
 like me, this is not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- I won't say that this game is scary, but it can keep you on edge if your playing a harder 
 difficulty and the weapons are classic from the original doom. This game is fun. Blasting zombies 
 around you, creepy monsters and a great atmosphere in the game. Although the zombies and monsters 
 in the game can be predictable. Like every dark corner has a zombie and once your in the dark you 
 know that you have to get ready for battle. I also have no idea why can the flashlight be attached 
 to your gun I mean, If I were that huy in the game, I would be attaching the flashlight to my weapon. 
 But overall the gameplay is pleasent and a good shooter.
  
  Graphics- Unbelieveable, if you got this game when it first came out or you never seen better graphics 
 then your jaws will drop. The atmosphere, the monsters have extreme detail that it looks real. 
 You can't say that these graphics are crap. It's revolution for graphical games.
  
  Sound- People in the game have good voice acting, monsters and zombies roaring and growling will 
 give you the chills (if your very frighten of games) . The weapons sounds are good but some don't 
 sound powerful like the pistol and the machine gun and explosions are ok but not great.
  
  Value- This game will get you play because graphics and the gameplay. But the game is short though 
 and the storyline is a little odd. I suggest having it on marine or veteren mode once you start 
 playing.
  
  Tilt- Everything seems very good. That's all I can say
  
  I recommend that people that should get this game are people that like graphics, horror, shooters 
 and is a fan of doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Well its been a long wait but its finally here. The graphics are outstanding to say the least. 
 Even in the lower quality settings the game can hold its own with everything else out there. Im 
 running the game on an alienware 2.6Ghz, with 768 megs ram, and was using a Gefore 4 ti 4200 with 
 64 megs ram.... For some reaason I could not use the higher quality settings with that card, only 
 the resiloution would take. My 9800 pro with 256 megs showed up today, and I can honestly say I 
 was able to turn up the settings to Ultra, and the game was very playable, smooth frame rates with 
 a couple of hicup here and there. So I think the specs for the game have been blown out of proportion
 
  
  Anyway, Doom is extremly well polished, the only grip I could find is with all the polish I felt 
 some of the animation was a little stiff, the atmosphere in the game is first rate, I love all 
 the background info on the UAC corp, and the little promotional videos. Its definatly not the run 
 and gun game of the past, which may take away some of the replay value, but if you loved Doom, 
 and are looking for a scary FPS with a good plot line and background Doom 3 will satify all your 
 need. Dont expect a Halo killer in this game though, while I would have to say it will not take 
 over Halo as the King of FPS, I really wouldnt even like to compare them, they are just too different 
 in stlye, Doom fells more your in a movie. Anyway go buy it! and dont worry too much about the 
 specs, Id hate to run it on anything less then a 2Ghz with 512megs and a 64meg Gefore 4 or equivilant, 
 but I doubt you'd be too dissapointed if you had too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: emitheemperor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 24, 2005 3:48 am PT
Review:  This game really hits home with its amazingly beautifully rendered graphics and massively explorable 
 gameplay. Where it lacks in story, it makes up for in sheer brute special effects force. The graphics 
 in this game are like nothing I have ever seen. The closest I can think of is "Farcry" but even 
 that pales in comparison to this monster of games. Doom 3's only serious fault is... it's lighting. 
 You can't see ANYTHING! Where places are pitch black, you could switch from gun to flashlight, 
 but therein lies the problem. While you switch, you might get attacked by some slimey monster. 
 Then you have a disadvantage and have to switch back in time. 
  
  I understand that this was the first massive complaint they fixed in the new "Resurrection of Evil" 
 Expansion Pack and that is good. I am already playing the Expansion and I love the graphics and 
 new areas to explore. Much fun to be had for sure. Can't wait to go "God Mode" and kill me some 
 demons in a terribly cheat-a-licious way! 
  
  Doom 3 is the GAME OF THE YEAR! Get it now at Gamespot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggiisthebest
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 21, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Gamespot's review of Doom 3 wont mention Far Cry by name, so I will. Far Cry was 
  _much_ better than Doom 3. The enemy AI in Far Cry is great -- especially on the outdoor levels 
 when they will try to surround you, or they hide in the cover. 
  
  Far Cry is an FPS that kept me glued to the screen throughout its long single-player game. 
  
 
  The AI of the enemies in Doom3 is appalling for a game made in 2004. Each enemy basically moves 
 toward you with exactly one type of attack and they attack in numbers --that's what you get for 
 the ENTIRE game. The "Serious Sam" games already did this type of FPS 2 years ago, and those games 
 benefitted from having a variety of imaginative-designed, huge levels.
  
  Doom3 sports a fantastic graphics engine, but Far Cry also has state-of-the art graphics that greatly 
 varied between huge outdoor areas and confined indoor areas. Doom 3 is one dark interior area with 
 narrow corridors after another. 
  
  Far Cry has multiple points of entry and exit on most levels. And Far Cry has vehicles to drive 
 or use as weapons. Doom 3 doesn't have any of this.
  
  The only thing Doom3 beats Far Cry on is the look of the enemies. The mutants in Far Cry looked 
 pretty underwhelming while Doom3's enemies are always creatively conceived and bizarre.
  
  I dont understand the 10 and 9 scores: have these folks played Far Cry or Half Life 2? Those 2 
 recent FPS games are genuinely fun, have great grpahics, and have long single-player games that 
 are highly worth your dollars. 
  
  What were the game developers of Doom 3 thinking? Doom 3 stands out as one of the most completely 
 boring "A-list" games made in years
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloader_feni
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 20, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Every time John Carmack annonces a new game we hear talk about tthe technology that the company 
 has made for the last 3 years. Sure, it looks good and so on but as a doom fan i am a bid dissapointed 
 in it, first the game was ment to be scary but when demons allways spawns behind you, you get hang 
 of it and are well prepared as well.
  
  And the biggest problem is: it is to dark to see what you are doing and there is a flash ligt but 
 you can not have it and shoot at the same time. Most of the game you spend by taking on the demons 
 in a boring mars base. The original game let you visit different worlds but now you are stuck to 
 be inside.
  
  Multi player portion of the game is all about the classic deathmatch game, i have tried it and 
 well, it is dark so you can use shadows to your advantage. Id software must concentrace more on 
 gameplay instead of tech talk all the time.
  
  Everyone that likes good looking games will be stunned by this one but for me it is nothing more 
 than a tech demo that id software are traying to show how good they are on the technology side, 
 sure they are but we are in 2004 so i am not that suprised.
  
  Doom 3 has its moments but thanks to technology that is inside, doom will survive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a scary, dark game that, unfortunately sometimes is too dark to see the beauty of the 
 graphics. It's pretty much an extremely graphically enhanced remake of the first Doom games. It 
 really grows and falls on you, but is annoying and that's why I've upped my review score several 
 times, and why it's gone down.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  One of the more frustrating parts of the game is the fact that there never seems to be enough health 
 or bullets to survive all those enemies. The weapons are pretty good for the most part. The worst 
 part of the game is the flashlight. The flashlight is considered a weapon, and it's useless for 
 melee attacks. That's even worse beacuse the levels are really dark. Doom 3 is your classic "get 
 the security key and go on" game, but is still pretty good.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  The graphics, at the time of Doom 3's release, were the best ever in a video game. They now have 
 been outdone by Half-Life 2 but Doom 3, as well as Far Cry, set the bar extremely high. Now, with 
 the Xbox 360, the PS3, and new PC games like F. E. A. R., Doom 3's graphics will not be as remarkable 
 when compared to new and upcoming games but will be remembered as a great looking game.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  The sound in Doom 3 really makes the game scary. The horrifying visuals and the 
 great ambient sounds put together really make the game freaky. The weapons sound good, just don't 
 work well.
  
  Value: 8/10
  If you enjoy Doom 3, you will spend a very good amount of time with Doom 3, but the multiplayer 
 just isn't good enough to give Doom 3 anything better than an eight in the value category.
  
  Tilt: 3/10
  Doom 3 is great looking and has good sound, but the bad multiplayer and frustration 
 make Doom 3 passable. If you liked the first two Doom games, and enjoy freaky horror movies and 
 games, Doom 3 is a game you should try. If you don't want to spend a fortune on a new computer, 
 just buy the Xbox version. The Xbox version isn't as great looking, but the co-op helps, and the 
 Collector's Edition has the first two Doom games included. Unfortunately, the co-op in the Xbox 
 version requires two systems via Xbox Live or system link. I'm proud to say that I really liked 
 Doom 3, Half-Life 2, AND Halo 2. PLEASE don't review Doom 3 until you get at LEAST half way done. 
 It starts great, get's boring, but then turns into an intense game that will rock your world. Then 
 it gets boring again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aggie1295
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 18, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 has been given a lot of grief and considered everything from a total bust to a major disappointment. 
 To an extent, the game has its flaws and probably isn't as groundbreaking as its predecessors. 
 However, I still think Doom 3 is an excellent game, and for the most part I had a fun time playing 
 it.
  
  The two main gripes about Doom 3 deal with the gameplay and the dark graphics. On the darkness 
 aspect, I agree. I know what they were trying to do with the real time lighting and the creapiness 
 factor, but the game is just two dark. That being said, I fixed the problem pretty quickly by downloading 
 a duct tape mod and had a flashlight attached to my main weapons. I probably wouldn't have been 
 able to stand playing the game without that mod. Once I had the mod though, the darkness wasn't 
 a major problem.
  
  I didn't see as big of a problem with the gameplay however. Yes, the monsters jumped out at you 
 all over the place. No, this isn't particularly innovative. But once I knew what to expect, I was 
 able to figure out a workable strategy and yet the game still remained a challenge. I did like 
 some of the gameplay elements that had been picked up from older games. I enjoyed following along 
 the story using the various logs found throughout the base. This reminded me of the log discs in 
 System Shock 2. It kept an element of mystery to the game. 
  
  The graphics are groundbreaking and the sound is top notch. The graphics do kick FPS games up a 
 notch, and are very impressive. In many ways, the game serves as a good demonstration of the future 
 of computer game graphics.
  
  Overall, I enjoyed Doom 3. It may has its faults, but it is still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grass21
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2005 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Probably one of the most anticipated games of the year, Doom 3 launched in August of 2004. When 
 I first played it, I first realized the excellent graphics and textures. But as hell began to unfold, 
 the intensity and dfficulty increased. Spanning over 20 levels and about 20 hours of singleplayer 
 levels depending on how slow you take it, makes it worth the purchase. Also Doom 3, has a unique 
 broadband only multiplayer system. It allows up to 8 players to go all out Doom 3 style. But, the 
 multiplayer didn't really impress me due to the lag that some servers may pick up plus the players' 
 fast moving speed makes it almost impossible to land a shot except the with rocket launcher. Another 
 dissapointment to the game was the final battle with the cyber demon, instead of being an extremely 
 difficult battle, it turned out to be quite easy with the propper strategy. For all you shooter 
 fans, there is an array of weapons to chose from to blast away the demons. Plus there is an abundance 
 of enemies to shoot so, you never have to go really to see a demon pop out around a corner and 
 get you. Also, there is a load of blood and gore so I wouldn't let your seven-year-old explore 
 the depths of hell. In a nut-shell the stunning graphics, lighting, sound alone are worth the price. 
 But a negative to that is you need a pretty up-to-date machine. So you wont be playing anytime 
 soon with a Pentium II Processor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montzag
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 11, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Doom is a good game. Its a classic and this one is no different. The graphics have been updated 
 and this game looks great, it has some of the best, if not the best graphics I've ever seen in 
 a game to date. Great looking. Sound is next. Wow, that's all. The sound makes the game, it becomes 
 exceedingly creepy and it will set the mode and get your heart beating at just the right times. 
 On surround speakers, which I played on, this game is unbeatable. The gameplay is tired though. 
 run here, shoot, run here, flip switch, shoot, shoot, kill. And so on. It's just a classic FPS 
 with no real variety to it. It's still a good game though. 
  The story (which has been created from the basic Doom model from the 90's) is pretty good for a 
 video game and it leads you on through the level. You have to suspend a little beleif because it 
 is an FPS and because it is Doom, but the story isn't too bad. The gameplay gives you some nice 
 situations but eventaully you can start guessing where enemies are coming from and anticipating 
 firefights. NEvertheless, you need to play this game if you are an FPS fan at all. The atmosphere 
 in this game is amazing, there are movies that don't caputer you like Doom3 does. It's awesome, 
 the sound the graphics, the lack of light, everything adds up for an amazingly emmersive and spooky 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bungmeister
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2005 5:53 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this one a lot. You can always rely on id to get the graphics right and I think they 
 are under-rated on what they do with sound. Story lines are what I think makes a rat-in-the-maze 
 game actually interesting to play and I was happy to see that they put some thought into this area. 
 I think they setup the atmosphere very well and use the claustrophobic environment well.
  
  I did ding it on game play, as after a while it does sort of reduce to finding "email", reloading 
 weapons, and doors that fly open when you go to pickup a clip. This is old hat with id and while 
 routine, enjoyable.
  
  The premise of the game is worn and out-dated and you quickly start to feel isolated. I thought 
 that designers did a great job with System-Shock 2 when in a few instances you were just around 
 the corner from some company. In a single player game, at least for me, it gives you another form 
 of interaction then the taunts from the "overlord" and the roar of your weapon. They try to do 
 this a little bit but it seemed under-achieved.
  
  Last, it would be *very* cool if companies would start introducing co-operative modes in games 
 like these. The Deathmatch thing is great for some people but it would be nice if we could pop 
 a Doom server up, log in, and co-operatively play the storyline. I think this is a very under-explored 
 area in games. So I dinged the value a bit.
  
  Other than that, if you want to have some fun - I think this is *very* enjoyable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2005 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  + Graphics are awesome
  + Enemies are spooky
  + Lots of holy **** moments
  
  Cons:
  - Lots of holy **** moments - it gets tedious
  - Pitch black dark environment
  - Feels 
 a lot more dull compared to other FPS
  
  Summary:
  Doom 3 is definitely a great horror first person shooter. It definitely gave me quite a bit scare 
 in the beginning, but once you go through most of the game, you get used to the idea that something 
 is going to pop out a freak you out... and it gets annoying. There really isn't much to say about 
 Doom 3, except that you run around and shoot things in a panic fashion and I'm a pretty big fan 
 of that, so I enjoyed it. Again, the game looks ridiculously good! Oh I gave it a Hard difficulty, 
 because of the dark environment... I can't tell what or where I'm shooting a lot of the times. 
 Anyhow, this game is definitely for those FPS horror fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f5lesnar2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 8, 2005 2:31 am PT
Review:  To say that Doom 3 is an amazing game would be a severe understatement. Everything about this game 
 game excels and pushes up the standards of first person shooters. In terms of the story it is fairly 
 straight forward, you play the role of a marine just assigned to the UAC (Union Aerospace Corporation) 
 facility on Mars. Shortly after you arrive your required to go look for a missing scientist. When 
 you find him all hell breaks loose, and thus begins your quest for survival. You start out with 
 the lowly pistol but will come across an entire arsenal to use along the way. Including the shotgun, 
 machine gun, chain gun, and some others I'll let you find out for yourself. The gameplay is somewhat 
 simple for a game such as this, nothing special or out of the ordinary for first person shooters. 
 Since the game's level of light is rather dark, your required to use a flashlight in most areas 
 just to see where your going. Unfortunetly you cannot use a flashlight at the same time as a weapon. 
 Certain enemies, namly the Imps, have a nasty tendency to materialize right behind you, just on 
 the other side of a door, or around corners, so be sure to be ready at all times. Enemy AI can 
 be predictable, some enemies that have ranged attacks will sit back and fire projectiles at you, 
 while other enemies will run right up and claw at you. Some enemies will be able to do some heavy 
 damage at both close and far range, be sure to identify these enemies and take them out as soon 
 as possible. Doom 3 is by far one of the longest first person shooters out there, the game is simply 
 massive. It could very well take 20 hours to finish. When it comes to looking good, this is what 
 Doom 3 does best, every character/monster model is heavily detailed, as well as the environment. 
 Nearly every object casts a shadow and can be moved around by punching or shooting it. Doom 3 also 
 has enourmous replay value, once you beat it the first time on any difficulty and new "Nightmare 
 Mode" will be available, where you gradually lose life all the time, and enemies are more relentless. 
 In addition to replaying the game over and over again, there are various MODs out there that can 
 add various twists to gameplay, graphics, and difficulty. The expansion pack Ressurection of Evil 
 works like most of the other MODs, rather than adding to the original game, RoE is like a new game 
 entirely, much shorter than Doom 3 and adding a few new weapons. When all is said and done, Doom 
 3 is a must own for any fan of first person shooters. The game itself is great, and has plenty 
 of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulofgondor91
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2005 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is really just a simple 1st person shooter, but it is still a whole lot of fun. It looks 
 better than any game before it, and a lot of the time will keep you on edge because your just waiting 
 of the next moster to lunge at you. The gameplay is not to good and your enemies aren't to smart, 
 but a few zombies do have basic AI's. Fairly soon you will be able to figure out how to doge enemy 
 attack and you'll just have fun blasting the s*** out of them. 
  
  For some strange reason your marine has no identity what so ever so the game tells you a lot about 
 other people in the world which does work and it will keep you wondering, "so, I wonder what's 
 going on w/ Sargant Kelly (or whoever) ." 
  
  The game tends to lag in the middle and you'll love it when it finally changes pace. The length 
 is around 15-20 hours of gameplay but it could have been slightly shorter. Tward the end it'll 
 get fun as you find more weapons and enemies. The weapons are all just point and shoot and are 
 not unique at all. However some of them look pretty cool; they all sound slightly underpowered 
 which was a big deal at the begining of the game, but soon you don't even pay attention to it. 
 
  
  The game features pretty repedative level designed, except when you get to Hell, but overall it 
 has few memorable moments so all the passage ways and large dark rooms were you fought enemies 
 slowly just blend together into one game. However tward the end after you leave the UAC's main 
 base it will get a little better. 
  
  So Doom 3 has some flaws, oh well, it's still so much fun to blow up monsters, zombies, and demons 
 and although it has little replay value, if your a fan of horror game or 1st person shooters, this 
 is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Floppythegodguy
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2005 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the game very much! It has superb graphics and great old-school gameplay with spooky 
 scare tactics! The AI is just killer instinct and everything functions as it should! Who the hell 
 excepts a zombie to be ber smart and work on bloody computers! They act as they should and they 
 just shuffle towards, ready to eat your flesh. The weapons sound very awesome and you get a feeling 
 (many games don't have this feeling) that you're baddasly blowing things away. The chainsaw and 
 BFG9k are returning once again but sadly no double-barrel shotgun. The DB shotty is infact in the 
 expansion, but it would be really sweet that id would have included it in the original game. The 
 monster cast is returning once again from zombies which come in different smells, shapes and sizes 
 to the horrific (and big) Cyberdemon which easily blows you away! The monsters that are included 
 in the game are the maggot which is a two-headed deformed monster, cherub which is a small baby-demon 
 with wings and razor sharp claws, wraith which sortoff looks like an imp but can teleport towards 
 you and has longer blade-like arms which send you to a world of hurt. The last of the new monster 
 cast are the ticks and trites which are easily to kill and can leap towards you and hurt you. The 
 graphics in the game are excellent, well drawn and detailed. The thing that I didn't like much 
 is the multiplayer which is quite laggy and hasn't got many servers. My last words in this review: 
 another classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cambiker
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 8, 2005 11:32 am PT
Review:  A great game , Getting killed by zombies.
  I've only just started it and i'm getting scared stiff.
  I would hate to be that guy in the game. 
 You have to like it, it's one of the best games out in the shops. I'm looking forward to completing 
 it.
  Fire throwing, biting, shooting, killing and massive zombies, this games got them all. When i 1st 
 got it i thought it would be easy, I'm not right, its so hard but still really worth getting. The 
 graphics arn't that good but their ok and the rest is fantastic. I wouldn't have missed getting 
 it for the world.
  It starts of you going to try and rescue this scientist but when you find him everyone starts turning 
 into zombies and trying to kill you. Freeky noises everywhere you go and when you least expect 
 it somthing big jumps out at you and trys to eat you but with a big gun their probably 65% easyer 
 to kill.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cortot20
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 27, 2005 5:44 pm PT
Review:  First off I love FPS's and I have played a lot of them. I played this one all the way through and 
 I can honestly say I got really bored with it. I kept waiting for the gameplay to change but nothing 
 really changed. They added guns and differnet enemies as you progress but nothing really made me 
 say wow. The graphics are incredible but like most modern mediocre games that can only go so far. 
 Gameplay still rules the day so unfortunatly when a developer puts all their money into R&D and 
 nothing into a good story or interesting gameplay mechanics it shows. The game literally made me 
 feel like I was walking through the exact same facility for 15 hours. When you get sent to Hell 
 the game becomes a little more interesting simply because of the change in textures and the loss 
 of the flash light. The flash light which adds to the scare factor is probably the most irritating 
 part of the game. I dont mind the idea of having a flash light but the fact that I have to use 
 it through 95% of the game makes for some sore eyes. This game blew me away for about an hour and 
 then I realized I was in for a long boring ride in the dark 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevil1421
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2005 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an amazing achievement in graphics and lighting effects, but it still feels like the 
 original games. From the first level you can already tell that this game is amazing the details 
 on the faces and the lighting reflecting off the building and door then it takes a step up in detail 
 when the devil takes over zombies and demon scare the crap out of you as they climb out of vents 
 and on walls, but gameplay is much more important. This is where the game falls short because of 
 one problem you can't use the flashlight and shoot is does add some suspense but otherwise is just 
 very annoying but a positive thing is that the inventory is amazing ranging from plasma guns to 
 rocket launcher, and even a chainsaw. The sound is excellent. With voices coming from behind at 
 adds whole new level of fear. The biggest problem with this game is that you need one of the best 
 computers to play this game if you're one of te lucky ones this game shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajkloft
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  Doom, Doom 2, and now Doom 3. Doom 3 improves a whole lot on the graphics area of gameplay. The 
 textures are absolutely amazing. Lighting is awesome... BUT speaking of lighting, to use the flashlight, 
 you have to unarm yourself!!! what's up with that? The game has many new weapon designs which adds 
 a bit of surprise. the BFG can now be charged up to attack. 
  
  The enemies look less like their predecessors with Imps not having spikes, just barely any meat 
 on them. The cyberdemon (you know... the BIG enemy with the rocket launcher) is even BIGGER.
  
  Sound is eerie and fits the game perfectly. The dark lighting mixed with the clinging and banging 
 and chatter on the radio frequency is extremely nerve racking. 
  
  I HIGHLY recommend this game to any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aweus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 10, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  Now how long did we waited for this game? The great Doom1&2 - one of the biggest milestones in 
 computer games history which marked the beginning of the FPS era. Since then Id Software started 
 to specialize in creating most innovative game engines on the market. Countless games was released 
 based on the systems from Quake1, 2 and 3. Id Software made enough money so their chief guru John 
 Carmack could give away his Ferraris as prizes in gaming contests. And now after few years of hard 
 work, Carmack and his crew strikes again. What is the outcome? Well it is sure that technology 
 is again main part of this whole affair. Doom3 is an eye-candy. Al you need to do is buy some up-to-date 
 CPU, GPU and stuff and once there, you can enjoy one of the best looking game ever made. Light 
 sourcing became legendary long before release date and I must admit it wasn't just trash talk. 
 If your computer is fast enough to bare full level of details in high resolution, you should be 
 astonished in many places by how far did the games technology progressed during last years. Doom3 
 is a prime example of how the games will look like in not distant future. On the other hand Carmack's 
 new proud creation has some flaws. The game itself is as shallow as it can be. Lone marine in the 
 space base full of hell minions. Making his way forward just to annihilate. There is no tactic 
 involved. Story is plain and simple, don't expect to be thrilled by some major twists. Besides 
 most of encounters are scripted here, so once you will send the final boss back to hell, it won't 
 be any point really in troubling yourself to play again even on harder difficulty settings. Well 
 maybe if you will like to impress you friends with how powerful your GPU is. Doom3 is surely worth 
 trying but you won't remember it for anything else then shiny look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irxproductions
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I've been around awhile. My first computer was an Apple II back in 1980. My first IBM/compatible 
 was a 486DX33 with 4MB of RAM with a 2400-baud modem (2.4k for all you young ones out there, not 
 56k) and a 170MB hard drive (no sound card, no video memory, no CD-ROM drive) . When Doom came out, 
 it rocked my world. It rocked every PC gamer's world. id Software had released Wolfenstein 3D years 
 earlier and, in 1992 when I got my PC, Wolfenstein was the game of choice. It was the first FPS 
 that actually showed you a little of what to expect in the future.
  
  Doom took that concept and ran with it. Almost no real storyline to speak of, but lots of scary 
 monsters and hellish sequences that made you feel all kinds of spooky. The levels were maze-like 
 and there was a lot of hunting down little colored keycards to open up "doors" to get you through 
 to the next part of the level (the doors slid up into the ceiling, so they weren't really "doors") .
 
  
  Years pass. We see Doom 2. We see the Ultimate Doom. We see more Doom collections than you can 
 shake a stick at. id software goes on and makes Quake and it seems as though the Doom series has 
 continued into the Quake series. Then, a few years ago, id software lets us all know that this 
 isn't the case and that they're making Doom 3 with the same storyline (huh?) as the first Doom. 
 Alrighty.
  
  Well, it turns out that they did make it with the same storyline (though, even I admit they added 
 a whole lot to the plot... err... they added a plot) . Here comes my issue with Doom 3 -- it is 
 still Doom.
  
  On the one hand, this is a good thing. It's got the same feeling as the original Doom 1 and Doom 
 2 games... you work your way through maze-like maps collecting multi-colored keycards (this time 
 they're Personal Digital Assistants) and opening doors to get through the levels. It's fun... for 
 awhile.
  
  The problem is, there's not much innovative gameplay here. Sure, the graphics are absolutely breathtaking 
 (so are the system requirements to actually run it nicely as my Athlon 64 3500+ with a Nvidia GeForce 
 6800 and Corsair matched 1GB were taxed) . The gameplay hasn't changed in the last decade. This 
 is still Doom.
  
  Monsters still jump out from impossible locations (warping in would be so much more preferable 
 to the "Hey! Was that monster hiding in a broom closet?" approach) and the collecting of PDAs becomes 
 downright mundane. Doom was fun but FPSs have come a REAL long way since the days of that kind 
 of gameplay.
  
  I know I'm going to get a whole lot of flack for this, but I watched 3D accelerators innovate the 
 graphics of the PC gaming industry and now it feels like it did back when the accelerators first 
 came on the scene -- game companies are forsaking gameplay to try and wow us with good graphics. 
 I love good graphics (I wouldn't spend so freakin' much on my video cards if I didn't) , but, at 
 the same time, I also loved X-Com: UFO Defense, Populous, Mechwarrior 1 & 2, Alone in the Dark, 
 and all those games that didn't get to rely simply on having good graphics -- they had good gameplay.
 
  
  Doom 3 won't disappoint anyone looking for a fun shooter. If you're looking for something that 
 takes FPS to the next level or is an innovative game, you need to look somewhere else... it's just 
 not going to happen with Doom 3. Maybe Doom 4? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrlucky3
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was the game that everybody was waiting for more than 3 years and now when we got it it 
 is dissapointining the game it self is great expecally the graphics they are perfect . Doom 3 is 
 great but in someway it feels not finished something is missing anyway it is one of the years best 
 games ! It wrealy is hard to discrabe this game it is not i was expecting i was expecting a brain 
 dead shooter like doom 1 and 2 but i got somekind of a bad story about some marine in a mars of 
 course it was great that doom finaly got some kind of a story but this story SUCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilfred_Owen
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 26, 2005 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Doom, perhaps the most anticipated game of 2004, wasn't as great as I was hoping it was going to 
 be. Don't get me wrong, Doom is a good game with awesome graphics, but graphics aren't everything. 
 The game just doesn't have good game play. It felt more like an old school shooter (Goldeneye Age) . 
 And with repetitive monster appearances, it was just a big letdown. Now I have to say the beginning 
 really started to hook me in. It was a great beginning for a game, it was hyping me up for what 
 was to come. But from the point I shot the first zombie I was slowly getting more bored with each 
 and every passing area. If youre a fan of great graphics pick Doom up as quick as you can. But 
 if you want a awesome shooter, Doom isnt your winner, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saitarion
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 20, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  The day I installed Doom III and was playing it I was instantly absorbed in the game. The in depth 
 story line really pulls you in to what is actually happening. The character you play makes it superb 
 by him not talking or anything. Making you feel like you are him. The graphics are the best in 
 the world at the present moment in time. Every corner that you turn leads to a seperate section 
 of the story leading you through all the familiar characters Hell Knights as well as many more. 
 Animation is superb with all of the characters as well as the landscape (even if there is not much 
 of it) as you spend most of your time blasting deamons hads and guts with an array of very different 
 weaponry. From the standard shotgun all the way to a plasma rifle and machinegun. All have their 
 point to serve out at your disposal. The story quickly unwraps and you can clearly see places that 
 were located in the previous games (something which I love.) It does have a multiplayer feature 
 which is very unusual as there is a max of 4 players per map but via patches can give you additional 
 room. Its not the most absorbing game that makes you play over and over as it can get very repetative 
 due to all of the corners and tunnels that you as the character must pass through. Also, some of 
 the sections can be very predictable such as deamons spawning behing you and the obvious of there 
 going to be deamons about basically every corner in the game. This is clearly a happy blast 'em 
 up. It requires abseloutly no skill unless you play it on the higer modes. A must buy for all PC 
 owners that have any of the latest GPU's in their pc eg. 6800 series as well as the X800's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 13, 2005 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 has amazing graphics and you need a dammed good PC to play it nicely, although im a fan 
 of ww2 gaming and modern 1st person shooter gaming and monster games and 1st person shooter don't 
 really mix in with me
  
  Sure aint half scary but neather the less its a incredible game to experience with from the makers 
 of Doom over the passed few years. I can't really sayed i enjoyed the game but i got somehow bored 
 and i bit freak out sometimes, but thats just me, like i say im not a great fan at all of monsterous 
 shooting games :s
  
  If your a fan of Doom and love monsterous games, ohh and you need to have a good PC then i would 
 deeply recomend that you at least try the game, if your a person like me i'd rent it first to see 
 whether you would like it or not
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutated
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 11, 2005 1:00 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is one of those games that I would consider a masterpiece. It easily kept me staring at 
 the screen for hours just so I could see more beautiful graphics and go uncover more of the fascinating 
 story. This review is coming from a person that has never played the previous doom games so I will 
 not compare it to them in any way.
  
  Of course I have to start with graphics. Most of the game looks just beautiful. The Doom 3 engine 
 has certainly started a revolution, and if you have a PC that is strong enough to run this baby 
 on good settings, you will enjoy the game twice as much as you would without all those fancy graphics. 
 Models in the game look beautiful, and are very detailed. One problem I have with the presentation 
 is the quality of some of the textures. A few of them seem to be of lower quality than most of 
 the others and sometimes they don't blend in very well. Also some of the effects like lava in hell 
 and last levels don't look very good, some of it looks like a cheap hack while they could be beautifully 
 animated using shaders.
  
  Gameplay of Doom 3 is great. But no more. As much as I love the story of the game, and its overall 
 feel, the game is very predictable. After few encounters you will know exactly what can happen 
 in the next room. Basically monsters popping out from the front and the back trying to kill you. 
 But if you are willing to overlook that flaw, the very same thing about monsters being predictable 
 will keep you on the edge of your seat, since sometimes the way the monsters appear is very, lets 
 say, scary. One example would when the whole room getting dark with bloody red symbols appearing 
 all over the walls, waiting for you to get close so an evil creature can spawn. The darkness in 
 the game makes the atmosphere great. I don't see why a lot of people complain the darkness, without 
 the game would loose its certain level of "scariness" and overall appeal.
  
  Now sound. As with most of newer games Doom 3 of course supports surround sound speakers. There 
 is nothing like hearing weird noises around you from every way. Those noises are not bad either. 
 There is enough variety in the sound to make you want to listen. One flaw of the sound system is 
 that for some reason it does not work fully with a 7.1 setup, only allowing sound from the channels 
 normally found in 5.1 setups.
  
  Overall, Doom 3 is a great game, not revolutionary in all aspects but certainly something that 
 will give us a new direction in the history of video games. I would really recommend that you pick 
 up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorel241
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I can say that from the second I started playing, I COULD NOT get off for a few hours. Suspense 
 lies around every corner, and it's just great that every beast you shred to pieces rewards you 
 in itself. I just loved pulling out that shotgun and running shell after shell of ammunition up 
 into their bodies, it gives you a rush of adrenaline. I also found it awesome when you least expect 
 it, and all of a sudden something crawls out from beneath the staircase and you try hiding, but 
 its so dark you end up running straight into the zombies face. All I can say is that if your looking 
 for a rush, try out this game. Even for the people who don't like horror games, it's still an astounding 
 first person shooter, and worth either downloading or buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ButnMashr
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 1, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy this game because I enjoyed the original doom. The game is great as far as ID goes. All 
 I gotta say is the games scary but it gets predictable in time and you'll know what too expect. 
 So it just grows on ya. Just like every classic fps if your tired of them puzzle boggling games, 
 than this game will get your heart pounding.
  
  It's all action! Nothing but the goods, as what you expect from ID software. Running, gunning, 
 jumping, and shooting. Surprisingly gameplay will get you on your edge. Very Immersive. The sound 
 will be your best asset cause you have too listen. Memorize those baddies voices so you know whats 
 coming for ya, and make sure too always watch your back!
  
  If your tired of those mind bogglin games, than this one's for you. All out Projectiles! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAMPANERIA
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 1, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  BEST REMAKE EVER really it is
  
  Graphics: OK once you do get over the graphics being so amazing wait you don't ok no worries here 
 the graphics are so 10 with no problem, I have played them all and for what doom 3 does this is 
 so 10 no question needed, plus I was playin on high quality so you better too for the best gaming 
 graphic today.
  
  Gameplay: OK from single player only this game is way better then I thought it would be saying 
 that alot of places this game amazed me. The game is scary going in till about middle of the game 
 you will be scared, after the h3ll part your just gonna go BRING IT and really your gonna go thro 
 h3ll then cuz if you make it that far theres no stopping you. The game ain't hard but is just rite. 
 This game made me bit my nailes and go to the washroom I don't do that in games so yea another 
 thumbs up here.
  
  Sound: OK im gonna give it a 9 here, lots of scary sounds here and there plus all the footsteps 
 and gunsa sound perfect. This game puts you there and will scare you every step of the game. Im 
 giving it a 9 cuz really theres no music yes music could of ruined this game but I wanted some 
 here and there. 
  
  Value: Well I just beat it on normal and im gonna go nightmare mode with some cheats to have fun. 
 I don't have mp but im guessing that would add something here since its not that great but overall 
 I think a 8 here would do right. O yea its longer then I thought people said it was short yea rite 
 this is a good 25h of gameplay for single player action.
  
  OVERALL: DOOM3 does what I thought it wouldn't do really this game suprised me and I knew it was 
 a good and hyped game but really it went beyond everything in everyway this game is kinda lucky 
 since im gonna give it a high score now :)
  
  plus im about to start the expansion pack cuz I want more!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TuckerP
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 27, 2005 1:00 am PT
Review:  Doom 3, a grimly beatiful excursion into the depths of H-E-Double Toothpicks, isn't scary. Yup, 
 you travel to heck and back, and I never once lost sleep about it. Of course, it won't be like 
 this for everyone, but, come on, how hard is it to make demons scary, not just ugly?
  
  Graphics: Ok, I've been hearing alot of flak about this game. Oh sure, it's not as pretty as Half-Life 
 2, or even Far Cry, but it's still extremely pretty. The first time you see an seven foot tall 
 imp throw a sizzling fireball at you, with his shadow jumping all over the room, your mouth WILL 
 HANG OPEN. After awhile, you do start to see repetition, and some seams exist. But when a game 
 like this runs this smoothly, who's complaining?
  
  Sound: Arguably the best part of the game, the sound really blew me away. As you creep through 
 the dark hallways, you can hear small thuds, cackles, screams, and other stuff meant to keep you 
 at the top of your game. This is serious stuff.
  
  Gameplay: Ever play the first doom? Good, because this game is almost criminally the exact same 
 thing. Heck, the body armor you pick up stands upright, just like in the original! Basically, this 
 is a game about going through a door, wipping out your shotgun, and blowing a hole in anything 
 that moves. It this apealls to you, I'm all for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2005 2:56 am PT
Review:  I remeber a quatoe from J. Carmack (head of id software and engine coder) which was something like 
 "I don't say Doom 3 will be full of refreshing gameplay but it will be the most graphical advanced 
 game today when it comes out".
  Thats exactly what Doom is. You get a lot of superb looking graphics thanks to the excessive use 
 of Normal Mapping but all of the exchange of a huge demand on your PCs system power. As it was 
 released I played it on a decent system but couldn't enjoy the high graphic setting at a good frame.
 
  But back to the game itself.
  The biggest problem lies in the leveldesign and some compromises.
  While the original game had 
 huge areas filled with monsters you won't see more then 5 at once here.
  Also you will be wandering around in small dark corridors most of the time.
  This isn't exactly 
 what a Doom fan would expect, is it?
  So you just shot some foes only to discover they instantly turn to ashes leaving the place behind 
 without any trace of the fight which took place just moments before.
  Pretty unsatisfying.
  Another thing I found strange was that the game builds up a real good athmosphere in the first 
 half hour.
  You arrive at the mars base, talk to some personel, witness some spooky dialogs and then it ends 
 up in this one man army thing by blasting away the same foes over and over again.
  So I heard many people saying "omg Doom is soooo scary". I can say that for me thats not the case. 
 Problem is that the audio is not done very well. Example: You walk into a corridor suddenly the 
 lights go of and then you hear laughter from the off.
  Could have worked if only the laughter had sounded scary and not so predictable.
  And there are 
 many happenings like that.
  Open a door and you can be certain that a monster will hop into your face or spawn behind you. 
 This gets very repetitive after some time.
  Another boring thing are the PDAs.
  Well you can read emails and log files, ok something new in Doom.
  But when you hear these uninspired 
 voice actors talking boring stuff with absolute no tension in their voices you will likely just 
 turn it off.
  The peak of this was the PDA I found in hell.
  Some guy from a research team is talking about his buddies he lost and that he don't will come 
 out here alive.
  So far so ok. But this guy sounded so boring and calm that you wondered if this was really spoken 
 in hell or just at the beach in Malibu.
  So it seems they tried to make something more subtle like Silent Hill or similar.
  But Doom is 
 a straight in your face shooter and the compromises in Doom are just not working very well.
  For me ID has done some good work when it comes down to graphics although you need a rocket of 
 a PC to get it somehow fluid. But the Doom feeling couldn't catch me this time.
  So in the end Doom leaves a mixed taste. Certainly not a bad game but also not that what every 
 Doom fan out there awaited.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Doom was made about eleven years ago and really invented the first person shooter genre. Ten years 
 later Doom 3 is released. Not really the same reaction. Doom 3 is exciting, creepy, and fun at 
 first, but the cheap thrills and repetitive gameplay grow stale far too quickly. Despite this, 
 Doom 3 does achieve the thing it boasted about the most: great graphics. Doom 3's graphics are 
 incredible. The character models are excellent, the space station textures look real, although 
 they all kind of look the same, and the guns look beautiful. However, Doom 3 doesn't deliver so 
 well on other fronts. Although Doom 3 is fun for the first few hours, it really never strays from 
 the same formula. You get a gun, shoot a bunch of monsters, get to a locked door, go back to find 
 the key, shooting monsters along the way, find the key, shoot more monsters, and unlock the door. 
 Now repeat. A few boss fights are the only thing that break up this routine. Also, Doom 3 fails 
 to scare. The game is supposed to be scary, but aside from startling you once or twice, this game 
 is not frightening. On the other hand, the graphics are really good. Too bad that's the only impressive 
 quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: q8hr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the sequel to the game doom 1 and doom 2, this game takes place on mars. If you are looking 
 for a great action shooter game this is the game. But this game isn't for everyone. During many 
 parts of the game you have to read alot and watch people talk so if your not a patent person don't 
 bother with this game.
  
  Another thing is that the story mode is really hard if you rush it, If you take your time the game 
 will be easy but i admit the story mode gets boring after a while
  
  In conclusion this summary may of been short but i hope it helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I've had my friends copy of Doom 3 for quite some time now. It has been sitting on my shelf but 
 I have finally had the nerve to actually install the game and I have been playing for the last 
 month or so and actually finishing the game.
  
  Doom 3 stacks well against other games but the overall experience doesn't seem cohesive enough 
 to make it seem like a satisfying experience. You get your PDA emails, your weapons, and your typical 
 scary moments. The art direction of the game has you in various environments but 90% of them claustrophobic. 
 That is not to say that it is a bad thing since the maps and texturing are very detailed and you 
 do get those really nice blurry flame effects when you walk pass the nice looking pipes that seem 
 to run accross the whole base... again... for some purpose. Make no mistake, Doom 3 is a very beautiful 
 game to look at even when most of it is behind a flashlight BUT you are still wondering why certain 
 things in the environment are there to begin with. Why does the floor have to have be a neat collapsing 
 system powered by hydrolic cables? Why can't it just be an elevator? Sometimes some parts of the 
 environment seem neat but unnecessary. Some parts of the game also like stick to the horror cliche 
 like the  scene. Although it isn't 
 original, it sure does it real well. Doom 3 is a graphic tour-de-force if you have the right hardware. 
 If you have 512MB or less, I say 'good luck' and prepare to thrash your hard drive to bits.
  
  Doom 3's human characters are highly detailed models and are animated extremely well but they 
 seem to give the impression that they will definitely be possesed by demons later in the game. 
 Don't get me wrong, the characters are realistic but up to the point where you feel that something 
 is a bit odd about them. They seem a bit off. Then again, this is probably done deliberately. 
 
  
  Doom 3's engine is very powerful stuff. In some ways, the engine can handle very intricate and 
 complex environments. I'm even willing to bet that the game's level design and art direction does 
 not really demonstrate the engine's true power. In some cases I even think Doom 3's engine can 
 stand up to Half Life 2's Source Engine. Then again, it really all boils down to purposeful design.
 
  
  Doom 3's physics are somewhat realistic but other than flailing bodies on stairs, there isn't much 
 to appreciate. At least you don't have Deus Ex 2 physics where you can pick up bodies and throw 
 them across rooms. 
  
  Doom 3's weapons are standard fare but the sounds and effects they make are well done and hardcore 
 Doom aficionados will appreciate some of the weapons that were brought back from the old school 
 days. Some will wonder why the main character does not have a weapon with a mounted light. Flashlights 
 are used separately here for some odd reason. Nevertheless, the weapons are fun to try out.
  
  If you're a Doom fan, get this game.
  if you're into FPS, try it out but don't expect too 
 much.
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  SPOILERS AHEAD:
  
  DOOM3, we wiated forever, the graphics were supposed to be so stunning, the terror of the game 
 looked unimaginable. and then eight months ago it finally came to us, if you think the graphics 
 look good in the screen shots, they look ten times that when they are in motion, they are stellar, 
 deffinately the most attractive game out there. half-life 2 is supposed to look good, and it does, 
 but it doesn't utilize it's own technology like doom3 does, a example would be how doom3 has a 
 much smoother looking world, and it's not the polygon count, but the amazing texturing that allow 
 so many of the rough edges to be convieneintly rounded, now half life 2 also has great textureing, 
 but they never used their normal mappin capabilities to round the edges on that dangerously sharp 
 corner of that building, really half life has the tech, but it has yet to use it. doom 3 runs relatively 
 well on all mid range pc's and it screems on high end machines (mine is a p4, 3.0 HT, 1 gig of ram, 
 geforce 6800, i run it cranked all the way up, except res, 2080X1024) the nice thing is that the 
 id guys didn't sell out like valve, there game runs well on both the radeon, and nvidia graphics 
 cards, (except for some radeon cards, there are a few stinkers that don't handle doom so well) half 
 life 2 runs like sh! t on my machine, even with the new patches i still get alot of crashes and 
 audio gliches, cs source runs fine though. DOOM 3 audio is handled by your processor, so sound 
 hards are a useless novelty here, and the sound is amazing, really it just sets a new level for 
 the genre. ok, now i'm gonna save you some time, if you don't like horror, and you don't like pure 
 run and gun action (no puzzles sorry) , you shouldn't waste your time, this game is simply that, 
 horror and action (beautifully presented, with outstanding story telling) . 
  
  PROS:
  BEST GRAPHICS EVER, BEST SOUND EVER, great production values, scarier than any game i've played, 
 well paced, GREAT ART DESIGN, great gun play, sweat bos battles, some stellar cut scenes, great 
 story telling. great weapon design, so many little things are so good, there is too much to tell.
 
  
  CONS:
  a one trick pony, the gameplay becomes very recycled after the first 15 hours. if played in the 
 dark alone, at two in the morning, volume cranked up, you will have a nervous break down. painfully 
 scary at times, lacking multi player. linear (though that helps script the horror that awaits) . 
 you'll probably only play it once, scratch that, make it twice. zombie marines aren't cool they 
 are just anoying.
  
  THE MEAT:
  OK, i've covered the technical stuff already, but there is alot more to cover, first off, if you 
 grab a good servre, this game, well for me with my shared t1 connectio (i live on campus at Western 
 michigan university) handles beautifully online, to bad that all that's there is lame deathmatch, 
 with eight players being the max, but fraging is always fun, it's just that with it running as 
 smoothly as it did for me, you'd think that some new revolutionary multi player gameplay useing 
 the lighting would have happend (ala, splinter cell pandora tommorrow) , odly enough pandora tommorrow, 
 and more specifically chaos theory, both use the proven unreal tournament engine, and well it doesn't 
 hold up nearly as well online for me as doom 3's engined did. any way, we pray for modders to tackle 
 this shananigan. the meat of this game is the single player, wich in my time came out to about 
 26 hours of it, wow was it wonderful, at most you'll play this game twice, and then it'll sit on 
 your shelf, but those 40 plus hours of game play are so terrifying, and action packed that you'll 
 swear it was worth it. the game begins slow ala, half life, it then hell breaks loose, the terror 
 begins, this game plays like a first person resident evil four of sorts for the first couple of 
 hours, then once you go to hell, it becomes a all out action game for a while, then your back on 
 mars, it gets really creepy for a while, then it's action till the end. the horror of some of this 
 game is amazing, some of the setpeices will drive you out of your seat, one thing i wanted to see 
 more of was the imps crawling of walls, that would have made them a little more of a chalange, 
 and it would have looked awsome, there are only scripted sequences when they do so, totaling three 
 or four in the game, and it looks so terrefying, and sweat i wanted to see more of it. the art 
 design for this game is great, the demons all look sweat and powerful, and life like, except a 
 few, they are suppossed to look dead. but the imps, and the hell knights are awsome, and the archevile, 
 wow, i've never been as supprised as when one of those spawns and starts summoning minions. hell 
 knights are sweat set peices in and of them selves, you don't see alot of them, they are huge, 
 and they will tax you arsonal, they are animated beautifully, and the shadows they cast add to 
 their menace. ok people the only game with lighting this good is maybe splinter cell chaos theory, 
 emphasis on maybe, the impact shadows have on the games mood and gameplay is astounding. yeah alot 
 of people complian that you have to hold your flash light then switch to your weapon, hey it works 
 fine, it adds to the suspense, and when you have your weapon out it's not like you can't see, the 
 barel flashes actually project light that will light up a small area and cast shadows, something 
 alot of other games with realtime lighting don't have. any way flashing guns is why i love the 
 plasma gun, it looks killer sounds awsome, and it is animated onscreen in a way that makes it feel 
 like it has reaciol, though none of the guns in this game have any reciol, or a alternate fire. 
 controls are really simple, and this works well because that leaves you with alot of buttons to 
 program your favorite guns to (this is something you'll deffinately want to do, since you'll need 
 you soulcube one minute, your rocket launcher seconds later, and the bfg for the finishing kill.) 
 gameplay is deep enough, each monster has a different weakness, and each gun is better in different 
 areas, or servs a different purpose, the shotgun is awsome, you'll use it the whole game, i had 
 mine programed to e, and it is a priceless comodety for dealing with imps up close and personal, 
 and that is another great thing about this game, with the exception of the pistol, every weapon 
 is used up till the end of the game, the trusty shot gun you get early on is as valuable in the 
 final boss battle as it is when you dispatch your first imp, or zombie soldier. oh yeah, the biggest 
 annoayance i had with the game is the zombie marines, they are lame, and don't keep with the continuity 
 of the game, like why are they smart enough to dodge bullets and take to cover, but the normal 
 zombie isn't why. and they don't look like they eat brians, they just look like a bunch of anorexic 
 tommy lee joneses running aroung with guns in body armor, they aren't scarry. that siad, they aren't 
 in the game for the whole ride, they just pop up intermitantly throught the first nine hours. regular 
 zombies are awsome, being in a room when the light goes out, you hear their mones you wip out the 
 flash light, swing it in a circle spot one, swich to shot gun, and let one rip, you then hear the 
 gun fire followed by the tearing of flesh as the buck shot shreds it's flesh, you then change to 
 the machine gun, using quick bursts of fire to illuminate the area infront of you so you can spot 
 any more, and dispatch them. the first couple hours of the game are filled with tense moments like 
 these, then there is the hell hound, oh god, they are frightening, one button is needed to stay 
 alive, and it rymes with sprint. you hold it down, run back ward while pulling out you shot gun, 
 and just as the beast reaches you , boom, one to the head, it didn't take him down though, only 
 a couple feet of hallway left behind you, the second shot rings out, and it tears into the eyeless 
 face of this hound from hell, it's thundering footsteps come to a halt and it disintegrates into 
 ash, a nice touch too, yeah, i wish that not all the bodies disintegrated, then when you start 
 layin down the charnage things would get messy, i don't want hellknights to disintegrates, i want 
 the walls to shake as they hit the dirt. after my bfg obliterates them. ragdollphysics are here, 
 only zombies really take advantage of it, seeing as everything else disintegrates too quickly to 
 really fall interestingly. oh yeah story telling here is pretty good, stuff is revieled through 
 cut scenes, and pda (palm pilots you pick up) , and people you talk to. it feels similar to half 
 life, except that things are alot more clear at the end of the game, and the cutscenes that take 
 you out of the action. the cutscenes are all in engine, and are well done, i like the final one 
 with the rescue team and the winged monster thing, that is cool. there are alot of boss battles, 
 and they are all pretty varied, each using a new weapon u aquired, except the final boss battle, 
 witch is just awsome, these battles are problem solving really, they just test your reflexes in 
 different ways, the all have awsomely rendered individuals. badies spawn in behind you, and that 
 isn't what scares me, because you usually hear them spawning, the scary stuff is when you know 
 something is there and you can't see it, or when the lights flicker and bodies get flung around, 
 that stuff will make you wet your pants, there are also a number of seceret compartments, similar 
 to the old doom, these things open up when you trigger them, and there are imps inside, and when 
 you kill the imp travle in to the compartment to get some body armor, or health that is usually 
 inside, i rationalize the hiden compartments, as the mad Dr.'s way of preping the invasion, he 
 probably brought back a number of specimins and set up the booby traps or something like that, 
 at any rate, they will scare you at first, then they become predictable, then they disapear tworads 
 the later third of the game, for me, i didn't think about them alot, but they do mess with the 
 contiuity of the game, but they do hurt it for me because i try and rationalize it, but i would 
 like id not to includ the hiden compartments in what ever sequel they make, along with the zombie 
 marines. yeah, but unlike half life 2, all the weapons are fun, and usefull, the only ones i had 
 a problem with were the rocket launcher, and the pistol, the rocket launcher doesn't make any real 
 mess, or have any particle effects for the explosion, it only has a distortion field, that extends 
 the radious of the effective area. this takes the feeling of realism and power out of the weapon, 
 plus i would love to see some crazy particle effects in the doom 3 engine. the pistol is just lame, 
 and u use it for the first bunch of zombies. is shoots slower than molasus and does no damage. 
 i must say this game made me start saving for a digital projector, because over christmas break 
 i borowed my works digital project, brand new, and used it a the new years eve party, i set it 
 up in the family room (my computer, and the projector) and everyone took turns playing the game, 
 you played till you couldn't any more (scared to sh! t) , or till you died. many people could barely 
 take it, so they took to the couch and watched, and those who don't play games often asked, "what 
 is this, how come it looks so real" yeah on the computer screen is one thing, but really it deserves 
 a big screen, with soround sound.
  
  LETS BREAK IT DOWN:
  
  GAMEPLAY
  arguably the weakest part of the game, the gameplay is linear, and relies on the players ability 
 to ases a situation, and select the proper weapon, after witch the oucome is determined by his 
 or hear twich shooter skills, there isn't any more real depth beyond this, AI is limited to charge 
 you, every now and then the imps will dodge a bullet or two, but the games terror, and ever evolving 
 world/story line keep the player involved, plus its worth it to play to the set peice battles, 
 like when you call up a service levator and it delivers you a hell knight, that one was a supprise, 
 it is the atmospher that draws the player in, after the first imp you ask your self , how can id 
 continue to up the anty, well they do, every hour or so something jaw dropping is thrown your way, 
 and you cherish it. and at 26 hours i didn't find any filler.
  8
  GRAPHICS:
  the graphics are what draw the player into the world, and part of what makes you play on, you want 
 to be blown away by this game graphics over and over agian, that is why i've played through almost 
 twice now, you just need to see that next awsome moment, where the monster looks as if he'll tear 
 your head off, you'll literaly screem in real life, and spasm and you try to stear your character 
 out of harms way, you'll beat a boss, then find your self relaoding the check piont before, because 
 the battle was so magnificent, you have to try agian, perhaps you can beat him a different way. 
 the graphics are what makes the sci fi fantasy world of this game so real, because it looks so 
 real.
  10
  SOUND:
  sound is amazing, the rolling base of the industrial complex, coupled with the screach of imps, 
 and the somber voice over of DR. petruger will surely drive you nuts, the sound is what will make 
 you crap your pants more often then nothing, the graphics pull you in, and the sound finishes you 
 off.
  10
  VALUE:
  this is the most fun i've had for fifty buck in years (excluding half life 2) , if you had to choose 
 between the two, it would be, what is your genre, one is action adventure, the other action horror, 
 they are both entirely linear, and scripted, they are both the best of their respective genres, 
 they both are centered around set piece cinematics, and scripted sequences, that will make you 
 drole, or wet your pants. it's up to you, half life 2's adventures are more varied, and despite 
 the one trick nature of doom3 it is so over powering it demands attention, if you need to test 
 these games, get the demos and see witch one is for you, but for fifty dollars either is a good 
 investment, ( i have both) , i gave it a nine because it lacks a full multi player, half life now 
 has half life 2 deathmatch (witch runs like SH! T online, but it's pretty awsome at lans) , and cs 
 source.
  9
  REVIEWERS TILT:
  this game scared me so much, i didn't finish for a whole four months after getting it, i couldn't 
 play for more than twenty minutes at a period under the ideal conditions (2 in the morning, alone, 
 roommate gone, volume cranked, no one to hear you scream) , ultimately i beat the game on a sunny 
 day with my roommate home, because i couldn't go on with the twenty minute sesions, plus i think 
 i was literally getting an ulcer. but don't say the game isn't scary if you haven't tried it in 
 the ideal conditions, actually, i would recomend that anyone who intends to play it, play atleast 
 up to the hell hounds in the ideal conditions, and if you can take it, go to hell, it is worth 
 it to experience that kind of horror, also i don't remeber if i beat the game on easy or normal, 
 i think easy, because when i freak out, i tend to unload every were even with rocket launcher, 
 and bfg, causing my self alot of damage, so i needed a more forgiving game, but at easy the game 
 is still difficult enough, that you need to compose yourself in the later levels, or else you'll 
 die. 
  
  try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravirr
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2005 8:50 am PT
Review:  Doom III was much anticipated for some odd reason. Its aim was to show off new technologies but 
 some people seem to deem it greatest game on earth. I went into doom III looking for some classic 
 doom action of killing imps by the hundreds. Of course when there are two to four imps out at max 
 it just kind of gets boring. The scariness factor did not affect me. I played it in the dark sound 
 up high. Its just the same thing over and over. Grab an item imp spawns behind you. Kill him move 
 on. The guns were the same except for the machine gun. That was the highlight was using the bfg 
 again but you barely get to use it. It isn't of much use anyway. Since it hurts you, and most of 
 your enemies are charging you in close quarters I never really found a use for it. 
  
  
  The graphics for the game were simply amazing, of course my computer had a bit trouble running 
 it. I got about 30 fps on pretty high settings. I like looking at the environments more than playing 
 the game. But that was what the game was all about was showing off new technologies. The lighting 
 was very nice and one of the best lighting systems I have seen. Sounds were above your average 
 game. Since for most people it created the "chill" factor when you hear the noise of imps. The 
 gun sounds were solid. I did have some problems with the machine gun though. It seemed to stutter 
 when you shot it. Gets on your nerves after awhile. 
  
  Overall the lack of enemies in doom lead to an over simplified run and gun that was far to easy 
 and over hyped. While the graphics were its strong points the game play was simply horrible.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 1, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was to be a masterpiece for doom fans and for soon to be doom fans. The franchise fell short 
 compared to its previous successes. Doom 3 had everything a good video game could have, great graphics, 
 good sound, but the game seemed so difficult. When you play through the game, you keep hoping that 
 maybe someone will help you out, or at least some sentry guns to help out, but nothing really does, 
 except for the scripted sentry in the middle of the game. I feel that this game should have tried 
 a little harder with storyline, at the beginning there was a nice plot, but through out the game 
 you don't find out really anything more, its just pointless action, so you don't really feel like 
 there is a point in going further. So at times the game does feel frustrating to go through, especially 
 when the odds are completely against you. The multi player in the game honestly was very stripped 
 down. It's your typical death match no special teams, or co op like the game was supposed to be 
 when the game was first heard of. If you a fan of the game then go for it but if first person shooters 
 aren't your thing, this game isn't going to change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoRay31
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2005 8:20 am PT
Review:  This genuinely engaging game offers a somewhat interesting story line with just enough occult references 
 to make it scary. The gore is slick and the overall design is thrilling. The game becomes a chore 
 at some points, with time spent "figuring out" this boss or that boss and then painlessly blowing 
 the creature away but the game art is so surreal at times that this drawback can easily be forgiven. 
 Odd and awkward cut scenes sometimes make for disadvantageous positioning but they're fun to watch.
 
  
  The end of the game is rather trite but the point of an FPS game is not necessarily what happens 
 at the end but what happens during the game. By this measure, Doom 3 is an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanemonkey2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2005 3:05 am PT
Review:  One of the best games ever made! Also one of my favorite games. This game, is all it's cracked 
 up to be. Good graphics, spooky, the works. You are sent to Mars as a Marine to relieve solders 
 whose tours of duty have expired. Until the invasion. You've heard it before, "The portal to Hell 
 is released and all Hell breaks loose". But there's more to that. Dr. Betruger is trying to master 
 teleportation. But during one of the tests, in Delta Labs Sector 4, the portal to Hell is opened. 
 duh duh duuuuh. Everyone dies and your the only one left. You then have to get a distress signal 
 to Earth to send in backup. Ironically, your the only survivor, well, there are a few people you 
 meet but they end up dieing anyway. The SoulCube, let's get into that shall we? The SoulCube is 
 one of the artifacts that the researchers found while exploring. It is the key that banished all 
 the demons back into Hell a very long time ago. And Hell wants it back. (You can see why.) Dr. 
 Betruger, the mastermind behind of of this. (Not the spider mastermind from Doom II.) He is the 
 leader of Hell. All during the game it feels like the demons are playing with you. They could kill 
 you but they just don't. There's only one bad thing about this game. Count them ONE, ONE bad thing 
 about this game. You have to keep switching from your gun to your flashlight. An unusual thing 
 is that the flashlight has unlimited battery power. That's odd isn't it? All in all, I give this 
 game a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and you will not be dissapointed in it at all. It might not please everyone 
 in the group but for what you get in the game it will not be a waste of your time.
  
  Some games you get and you just feel let down and ripped off well this game isnt one of those types. 
 I believe there will be a community for this game for some time to come and the support for it 
 will be around awhile also.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are great and wont be out of date for a long time. Overall you probably 
 will leave this on your computer and not uninstall it anytime soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gametigger
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 29, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  If you dont have it. Get it. I opted to go with the pc version because I am an impatient little 
 game freak. But if you are waiting for the console version, the wait will not be dissapointing 
 to you. Not only are the graphics the best I have ever seen on a fps, the sound quality is immeasurable. 
 and I swear my head almost blew up when I saw the in game physics at work. I mean the way this 
 one zombie went over a short railing and slumped to the ground as his arm caught the rail and dragged 
 behind totally caught me off gaurd. You have to experience it for yourself. But it seemed like 
 the enemies were way too fast. And if it werent for an almost endless supply of ammo even rookie 
 mode would be impossible to beat. Its also got a pretty good story to. So it doesnt feel like just 
 a shoot em up game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genisk02
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 20, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 sure does bring back great memories, I loved Doom and Doom 2. They didn't have the greatest 
 graphics if were talking about today's date, but the gameplay was outstanding. I'll tell you right 
 now, Doom 3 is serious eyecandy, but does it have the right type of gameplay?
  
  It's been years since, and now, Doom 3 is released. I never actually made it too, too far into 
 Doom 3's story, but I mad it far enough to get the whole scary-feeling out of it all and to know 
 if it's at least decent or not. Since I didn't get the chance to play all of it, it stayed very 
 fresh for me.
  
  Graphics: Alright, the graphics are awesome. The shades of darkness, the places where you have 
 to illuminate the darkes with that dinky flashlight of yours, it's all great. The graphics literally 
 make you feel that your the U. A. C Marine who's surrounded in darkness, knowing that demons are 
 about to pop-up out of nowhere, or even worse, hearing those creepy clinky steps of those spiders 
 in the dark. I'll have to take word on that one, Doom 3 sure does feel realistic, although some 
 textures seemed a bit un-placed from a distance, that's about it.
  
  Gameplay: This, I didn't approve of... Too much, that is. I'll use FarCry as an example, no, I'm 
 not comparing. You can swim, sprint, prown, crouch and many more realistic acts are included. Doom 
 3 doesn't even have half of that, it's basicly what Doom or Doom 2 is, only with updated graphics. 
 I mean, having a dinky flashing isn't realistic, is it? This is what makes Doom 3 un-realistic, 
 they should, well... By now, they should have some type of improved flashlight, or even yet a flashlight 
 that can be on your suit so you can use it at all times without having to switch from weapon to 
 flashlight, weapon to flashling -- I mean, seriously.
  
  Background: Your always inside, so it's not something I'd really approve of either. The good ol' 
 original Half-Life may seem like your always trapped in Black Mesa, but at least your outside for 
 a good few hours at the end, possibly alot more. Doom 3, nothing much here than you running out 
 on Mars' surface for a couple of seconds. You can't even breathe the whole time, so you'd think 
 by now, in year ummm... Future, they'd have some type of device that will allow them to run out 
 without any type of gas mask, or better yet, an improved flashlight for those dark corridors?
 
  
  That's all I have to say about Doom 3, it was a bit of a failure. It could have been improved, 
 they should have waited! Still, it's good enough for being considered in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithlord
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 17, 2005 3:20 am PT
Review:  To put it bluntly, if you play Doom III BEFORE Half-life 2, then life is good. If not, then all 
 you do, is play Doom comparing it to something that it will never live up to. Doom III is more 
 of a Doom 'remake' in my opinion. Same game play that made the others so addiction... mindless 
 slaughter. Yes it's fun, yes you have to play in the dark, but I think Id did a great job at giving 
 the public the game they set out to make. It was never supposed to be this 'in depth' story, or 
 physics behemoth that we can call HL2.
  
  Is it repetitive? Yes
  
  Can it compare to HL2? No
  
  Will the MOD community breathe some great life into this? I think 
 so..
  
  In a nutshell... is it fun? Yes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: syx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2005 2:32 am PT
Review:  With the original Doom games being some of the most influental PC shooters in history, Doom3 had 
 some serious shoes to fill. Its gameplay is nothing new, but it works. Supposidly this game is 
 supposed to be down right frightening, but after the first 30 minutes, the "scare" factor dies 
 down, and the hordes of expected enemies get to be boring. It's also easy to predict where there 
 will be an enemy, behind every corner, in every dark spot, and behind every door. Doom3 is supposed 
 to be a remake of the original Doom, which it faithfully does. But if you're expecting a killer 
 story or non-cliche plot, look elsewhere.
  
  Graphics are the main selling point to D3, and I admit they are good, but not amazing. The models 
 are amazingly low poly, giving the models cone heads. The real big thing is the dynamic lighting 
 and shadows supported by the engine, which don't really make it look any different than lower tech 
 like dynamic lightmaps, but they do make the game darker, which I guess they intended to make it 
 scarier. Doom 3 has a pretty nice cliche climatic ending, which really serves no point since the 
 story is non existant.
  
  If you're a fan of run and gun shooters, you will like Doom 3, but don't expect the second coming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOpinionated
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 13, 2005 6:16 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is one of those games you can judge by it's box. It's just not a very deep game. The only 
 thing that will definitley impress you is the graphics. Doom 3's engine is very impressive: real-time 
 lighting and shadowing, texture detail, movie-quality sound, and all those other graphical tricks 
 you have seen in the trailers. 
  
  In fact, most people will probably buy this game for the graphics. Sadly, the graphics engine is 
 not taken full advantage of. Most of the game takes place in hallways and small rooms and when 
 the scenery changes to the Martian surface or some sort of hell-hole, it's not any more impressive 
 than the indoor environments. When you compare ID's engine to Valve's Source engine powering Half-life 
 2, the Source engine beats out Doom 3's engine in every way but real-time shadowing. Doom 3 has 
 the best shadowing I have seen so far. Pull out your flashlight and shine it on various objects. 
 You'll notice very realistic shadows being cast. It is very neat, especially when a demon casts 
 a shadow while crawling on an outside window, but soon this becomes a novelty. You do not need 
 real-time shadows to make great gameplay and sadly, but expected, Doom 3's gameplay hasn't changed 
 much since Quake 2's, ID's last single player game.
  
  ID attempts to convey a story in Doom 3 and does remarkably well. Doom 3 is not a sequel to Doom 
 2 but instead is a retelling of the original Doom game. You play a marine who arrives on the UAC's 
 Mars base to replace a missing soldier. Of course, you arrive before all hell breaks loose and 
 soon you're back to the good ol' days of Doom action. Yes, the beginning is not at all like Doom 
 or ID's previous games. Instead, it begins a lot like Half-life. You start out unarmed, going through 
 the base on your way to your first assignment. When you reach your objective, all hell breaks loose 
 soon after that. The rest of the game tries to be a little less Doom-ish by adding PDAs you can 
 pick up to learn more about what's going on. Like the colored keycards of the previous Doom games, 
 you'll need to collect PDAs to proceed further into the game.
  
  Doom 3 is a scary experiance, but only for the first time. Like a horror film, you won't be scared 
 if you have watched it before because you know what is coming up. If you plan on buying this game, 
 do not purchase it at a price higher than 50 dollars. It is just not worth more than $50 just for 
 a pretty game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 2, 2005 5:56 am PT
Review:  
  Doom 3 is a futuristic first-person shooter that combines a demonic atmosphere in a technologically 
 advanced world. The story takes place on the planet Mars where a mad scientist is performing experiments 
 that are far beyond human capability. Dr. Betruger is a crazy lunatic that is seemingly controlled 
 by the devil and he believes that he will be able to control the demons that come into the world. 
 In the end you will find that this is not the case. All the workers on the Mars station are very 
 spooked by various recent events that have been happening throughout the base. Workers are going 
 crazy, hearing voices and seeing images appear and disappear in the corner of their eyes. The game 
 offers an eerie sense of supernatural phenomena throughout the entire experience. The story is 
 immersive but is very straight forward. To cut it shortly; demons are coming into the base through 
 a large portal and it is up to you (a marine) to destroy it and the demons residing on the base.
 
  
  Doom 3 is a very interesting experience. The game gives you a PDA where you can pick up other peoples 
 information and view videos or hear their audio files on. This is a nice addition that allows you 
 to immerse yourself more into the chilling storyline. However, at times you will not want to specifically 
 stop the game just to hear what a dead workers PDA says. PDAs that are found also give codes 
 to various locked cabinets which can store goods that will definitely help you in defeating the 
 demonic onslaught.
  
  You will have to complete numerous tasks to get to different areas throughout the Mars base. The 
 missions that you must do are very bland and boring. You either must run here and click some switch 
 then run back to where the closed door was, or you will have to find some item and use it somewhere 
 that is locked or inaccessible. This type of mission objective really takes away from the feel 
 of the game and leaves you dreading the next checkpoint or closed door. The missions could have 
 been developed better but they do provide many creeps and scares along the way.
  
  Speaking of creeps and scares, the demons in Doom 3 are very freaky and can deliver a considerable 
 amount of damage to your character. Although the AI is not always at its finest, the AI does offer 
 a consistent base of attack and defensive strategy (possessed soldiers will hide behind various 
 objects to gain an advantage on you) . Normal workers have also been possessed by the devil. These 
 fiends will not offer a large amount of fear or animosity in you but they will make you feel like 
 your killing zombies that are wishing to die. The demons vary in sizes, dangers and special moves. 
 Some demons can quickly jump out at you and throw you back a step while others will decide to shoot 
 missiles at you. Not only will you have to worry about demons but also cursed babies. Yes, cursed 
 babies! These children have been manipulated by the devil and fly around buzzing at you while you 
 desperately try to save their poor existence by destroying the evil within them. 
  
  You will find that the game does not take you to any new locales throughout your Martian experience. 
 You will be fighting in the Mars base about 90% of the game. The lack of change in the environment 
 makes you feel dreary and kind of bored during the experience. Playing the game will seem like 
 a never ending base with the same power generators, boxes, barrels, shelves and other notables. 
 You will sometimes get a chance to look out a window and see the Mars landscape but this is quite 
 rare. But wait! You do get to go out on the Mars surface and fight demons there as well. However, 
 due to a lack of oxygen you will find that you are rushing to find an entrance hatch to again enter 
 the monotonous base. This quick run by is not a sufficient experience of the Mars surface and it 
 does not allow you to explore or witness the wonderful detail placed in this work of art. Since 
 this is a Doom game, you will get to fight in hell against villainous demons and beasts. Your hell 
 visit will not last to long and is somewhat straightforward. The main goal is to get to hell and 
 destroy every single thing that stands in your way. There is a tone of lava and hot molten substances 
 that are the backdrop of this environment. If you fall in, well, you are definitely toast! This 
 might get some players frustrated if they are battling with a bunch of enemies and they accidentally 
 fall into the lava pits. Hell does carry the torch of the stereotypical description of this devilish 
 place.
  
  Doom 3 offers an adequate amount of weapons that you will use to help diminish the oncoming fleet 
 of demonic proportions. You will be armed with various weapons such as: fists, pistol, machine 
 gun, chain gun, chainsaw, plasma gun, rocket launcher, shotgun, grenades and perhaps some special 
 weapons found throughout the game. Each weapon offers its own potential of damage and each weapon 
 has its main purpose. A shotgun is always good at close range and it can heavily do damage to a 
 vast amount of enemies. The chain gun with its large ammo belt capacity is effective when there 
 are a lot of enemies on the screen. 
  
  Doom 3 truly offers a scary and chilling gaming experience. I find that the combination of religion 
 and demonic individuation equals a freaky game. It is probably the essence of the unknown and the 
 divine that drives people to create such experiences of malice, fear and dread. Doom 3 is no exception 
 to this. Throughout the game you will hear a multitude of sounds, voices, noises and other creepy 
 and unexpected instances. The entire base is not well lit. You will find that you are whipping 
 out your flashlight to look into small corners, just in case an enemy is there waiting to pounce 
 on you as you walk by shaking in your pants. However, the game must really be played in a tolerable 
 atmosphere. If you play Doom 3 in a loud household with many people talking to you as you play, 
 or if you play the game with all your lights on, these external drawbacks will definitely take 
 away your immersion into the game, thus perhaps making you either not like it or not accept the 
 eerie feel offered. There is one part in the game that really stood out in my mind. As I was walking 
 down another similar hallway in the base all the lights turned off. Then they suddenly began to 
 flicker on and off. As the light performed their goal you could hear a young boy/girl calling you 
 to follow me" or come here. Not only is this freaky on its own, but if you look down on the 
 ground you will actually see dark black foot-prints either walking towards you or away from you. 
 I am even getting chills writing that! The game not only offers a visual fear but it also makes 
 you want to play it even more. Lets face it, people generally like to be scared (why else go into 
 a horror house?) , it is this want or drawing perplexity to fear and uncertainty that Doom 3 successfully 
 capitalizes on. If you are an individual who plays games which make you feel that you are a part 
 of the action and that you are witnessing the story in your own room, than this game is defiantly 
 for you. Doom 3 will draw you into the creepy setting of the planet Mars and it will twist and 
 turn some demonic intrusion into the whole scope. Not only is this a good base for a thrilling 
 experience but it creates a dualism of fear on both an interplanetary perspective and it places 
 a strong religious connotation on you (the player) .
  
  The gameplay in Doom 3 is done successfully. There is no amazing innovation or significant change 
 in Doom than in any other first-person shooter. I did find that the mouse was not as responsive 
 to where I wanted to aim. I dont know if this responsiveness was a problem for other gamers but 
 I found it was for me. The game generally runs smooth and is very goal-orientated. Doom 3 does 
 not really allow you to go off and explore the area because you will generally only have one main 
 route to follow to reach your destination. The controls in Doom 3 are very simple. You have your 
 classic jump, crouch and trigger on the mouse commands. The gameplay is definitely aided by the 
 mood that the game sets on the player and if the atmosphere is right, the game can surely show 
 the underappreciated setting offered by Doom 3.
  
  The sound in Doom 3 is excellent. Small details here and there help add to the creepy overlay of 
 the entire gaming experience. Metal clanging, voices speaking to you, possessed droning of humans, 
 light flickering sounds, steam engulfing the whole room and other small touches create the ultimate 
 sound piece. The weapons sound authentic and the chainsaw clearly shows the extra touch of rust 
 which makes the weapon seem even more real. The games sound is second best to the games graphics 
 which I will now mention.
  
  The graphics in Doom 3 are phenomenal. Everything on the gaming screen is highly detailed and looks 
 extremely real. The excellent use of shadows and the great texture detail of various enemies and 
 walls make the game truly seem like a real life movie. The faces of the people are designed extremely 
 well and they show every single mouth movement or eyebrow raise. The game is in a class of its 
 own in the graphic department and this is probably agreed upon by most people who have seen or 
 played Doom 3. However, you will need a very good video card to fully enjoy this experience. A 
 128MB card is basically mandatory and I would recommend a 256 behemoth. I had to run the game on 
 one of the lowest resolutions on my 128MB card. After I played around with the settings I finally 
 got the most desirable experience I could find. Doom 3 is a creation for the newer age of video 
 gaming and it is definitely a success in this sector.
  
  Overall Doom 3 is an above average game. If you set the mood right and are truly immersed in the 
 experience you will find the game excellent. The game loses its quality due to its lackluster (4 
 Player) multiplayer online function which amplifies great lag and is generally not fun to play. 
 After you have finished the single player game you will probably not play the game again. The value 
 of the game is not a high commodity especially since the requirements for an immersive experience 
 for this game are basically astronomical. Doom 3 is a great test of your computers ability to perform 
 and to run the new age graphical pieces that developers will eventually create. Aside from its 
 never ending hallways of metal after metal, the game can truly offer an immersive experience that 
 can be appreciated by any individual who is up for a scare or someone who just wishes to blow the 
 devil back to eternal oblivion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devouring_One
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2005 2:28 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an old school first person shooter that fans and arcade style players will love. All 
 you do in this game is kill monsters and demons in a fast pace shoot and kill action/horror game. 
 First off the graphics of this game is revolutionary and probably the best ever created for any 
 game. The only other games that can compare its graphics to this one is probably Half-Life 2 or 
 The Chronicles or Riddick which came pretty close. The dynamic lighting in this game is excellent 
 and goes well with the horror of the game since the game is dark and you need a flashlight to see 
 in this game. 
  
  The game isn't hard to learn how to play and the single player in the game is pretty decent and 
 long, so you'll have alot fun killing everything. The multiplayer portion of the game adds to the 
 value of the game but its okay compared to the other multiplayers out there. Theres only a few 
 options for the multiplayer but if you enjoy the fast pace shoot 'em up deathmatches, then this 
 is for you. 
  
  If you were looking for a good scare in this game, you shouldn't expect too much since only the 
 beginning of the game is scary, but later on it becomes more of an action game. The only other 
 time you would probably be scared is when monsters constantly respawn behind you and attack you 
 from behind. The gameplay isn't revolutionary and at times becomes dull, since the game is sort 
 of the remake of the classic FPS style. The only real downside of the game is its high system requirements 
 to play it. Not everyone can play this game and if you can play it, you have to be a person that 
 enjoys this type of game, otherwise you really won't find a reason to buy it. 
  
  All in all, Doom 3 is a game that raises the standard for gaming graphics, and is a game that fans 
 and old school players will enjoy. This is one game all PC gamers should try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: servadac42
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 25, 2005 1:54 pm PT
Review:  You gotta love the review of Doom III here on Gamespot. The guy complains about everything he can 
 find about the game, and then proceeds to give it 8.5. There is just no way he can be serious. 
 The rating system here is hard to understand as it is, that "review" doesn't do any wonders for 
 it to be easier, to say the least.
  
  ID software are since Wolfenstein 3D the creators and undisputed masters of the FPS genre. The 
 creators of these games are considered true artists like few others working in the industry. Doom 
 blew everyone away when it came it out and there's no one who hasn't played that game and doesn't 
 have any memories of its violence and fast-paced action. When ID releases something brand-spanking-new 
 it's not a mystery that expectations get lifted up to the ceiling. There were NEVER anything said 
 about Doom III that it was going to have unique rocket-scientist AI, neither that it was going 
 to revolutionize the genre in some weird completely unnecessary way. Valve stood for these promises 
 before releasing their pseudo-wonder child Half-Life 2 - and they failed to deliver on all these 
 hyped up beyond recognition-accounts. ID merely proclaimed Doom III was going to be a scary game 
 with great graphic. Do you know what Doom III is? It is a game that scares the living daylight 
 out of you, with graphics that are so beautiful it makes grandmothers weep.
  
  Doom III is basically the story of the original Doom retold with todays technology. This is not 
 something that makes the game any worse though, more the other way around. The nostalgia you feel 
 about the old enemies that reappear make you connect with the game in a way similar to when playing 
 one of Nintendo's endless new Mario- or Zelda-games. The graphics outdo everything else on the 
 market hands-down. In fact, the graphics are so good Doom III doesn't need a French revolution 
 of new innovative game play. It still feels fresh and exciting enough. For it can't be said enough 
 times: Don't fix what ain't broken.
  
  Dig this: There is a little piece of paper inside the box where it says ID thinks you should play 
 this game with the door locked, the lights turned off and the volume turned way up. I dare you 
 to play the game through this way. I have absolutely no problems with swallowing my pride and saying 
 I have never played a game that has scared me as much as this one did, and that even when excluding 
 the "cheap thrills" of things coming at you unexpectedly.
  
  The sound is great, and the brave choice of not having any music works to this game's advantage. 
 The atmosphere of Doom III is masterful and unmatched today. If you like me for a long time choose 
 to believe all the nay-saying "professional" reviews and stay away from this game, you are doing 
 yourself one huge disservice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrizzie
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the long awaited sequel to the popular, arguably first true FPS, doom series of the early 
 to mid 90's. It has you, nameless space marine, battle the powers of hell, in the form of demons, 
 zombies, rocket blasting monster and the like, who have spawned from hell to your base on mars 
 where you have recently been relocated.
  
  From the word go your jaw will be on the floor constantly, as the game boasts the single most awe-inspiring 
 graphics ever in any game, on any platform. Other than HL2 there is no game which can compete with 
 doom 3 in the graphics department. Very high detailed textures, fantastic lighting and dynamic 
 effects give you a sense of realism that is so incredible, you sometimes have to look around in 
 the room just to be sure you're not really in the computer game itself. This, in combination with 
 the horror theme attached to the game, gives a very unnerving feel to the game and has great impact 
 when you're suddenly caught of guard by a very realistic scary looking creature. It's the best 
 looking game i've ever seen. There is a but here ; you need a good system to get the optimum graphics 
 out of this game. To keep in the doom atmosphere ; you need a computer from hell. Only the fastest 
 computers you can get today will play the game on it's highest possible settings perfectly smooth.
 
  
  The action is fast paced and it doesn't take long for the story to go from a wondering stroll through 
 your average space station on mars to your average hell comes to mars scenario. The introduction 
 and in-game's videos are done nicely as are lots of neat little details, like interactive live 
 security camera's your colleagues around you use and working machinery on the base. These things 
 help you get drawn in to the game and set you up really well. After a brief introduction to your 
 new mission on the mars base, all hell breaks loose and soon you'll find yourself battling all 
 kinds of forces from hell. The story lets go from here and the game quickly boils down to an indoor 
 carnage FPS. You encounter scary monsters whenever you least expect them. The game is made very 
 dark and it gives great opportunity for hellish monsters to sneak op on you. In the beginning this 
 works very well. You nearly fall of your seat whenever you see a zombie hand reach out of the darkness 
 over your shoulder. Good sound help increase the fright effect.
  
  And this is also where, after a while, where disappointment sets in. The indoor action gets repetitive, 
 and your goal is basically to constantly find such and such or go so and so, only to find plans 
 have changed. Like the story line, the fright effects wears down and also becomes very dull. Soon 
 you're shooting on autopilot and the game feels like it has no challenge left in it after about 
 halfway through. Only real FPS fans will want to continue at this point. 
  
  In the end Doom 3 leaves you feeling a little numb. It's starts out great and fresh and makes a 
 good first impression, but then seems to get stuck and doesn't progress anywhere. The action remains 
 well done and in combination with the outstanding graphics gives plenty to do for the FPS fanatic. 
 It leaves the little people behind, however, with some mixed feelings.
  
  Summary :
  The good :
  - Great graphics and special effects
  - Great evil, hellish, dark atmosphere, with 
 realistic, scary creatures that sneak up on 
  you and really make you jump out of year seat.
  - fast paced action, lots of fine weapons to 
 use with easy controls.
  The bad
  - Repetitive action, monsters and gameplay.
  - easy to pick up, but stays that way and lacks the challenge when you're about halfway
  through 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostWolfen1804
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2005 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about Doom 3 is the graphics obviously. And they are the very best this 
 generation has. The very first game in history to have all real-time lighting, pixel shaders, normal 
 maps, and AA is a visual feast. But not much else has changed from the old days of Doom.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Who didn't see this coming. Doom 3 is simply the best-looking game I've ever played. 
 There really isn't much I can do to describe it, looking at the screen shots and seeing the videos 
 are the best way to go.
  
  Sound: 10
  The atmosphere is the second thing that Doom 3 nails home. Every sound will make you twitch and 
 spin around to face it, finger ready to blow it away with a few clicks of the mouse. Intense.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8
  This is where Half-Life 2 smacks it with its own flashlight. Other than the incredible atmosphere 
 of tension and awe, there really isn't much here - just shoot the monsters, grab the PDAs for access 
 codes, and fight big monsters. It's nice to see a story here with meaning and a decent conclusion 
 (unlike a game that starts with "H" and ends with "o 2") , but you just don't do all that much. 
 
  
  And parents, DO NOT BUY THIS FOR YOUR 6 YEAR-OLDS! This is a very mature game -actual satanic imagery 
 adorns the walls. A woman's head rips open. Blood paints the walls and floors where humans were 
 viciously killed and still lay. You've been warned.
  
  But for all its flaws, I still enjoy it. It's like a walk down a blood-soaked memory lane to the 
 day I sat down in front of a computer at Media Play and saw the original Doom in all its glory.
 
  
  Bottom line:
  It's a damn good game - not a revolution. So don't expect one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotageClock
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  To get things started, this game is the scariest game i have ever played IMO. Many people say it 
 get repetitive, and thats true if you want to blow through the whole game in one day, but if you 
 take it in doses, its great. That was how it was meant to be played. 
  
  The game is really dark, thats a fact. Peering down a dark hallway in your basement at night can 
 be really freaky. Think about this: if the game was brightly lit and the monsters came from in 
 front of you, you wouldn't have much fun would you? 
  
  
  What the game is like: 
  The game itself is scripted heavily, making it a unique experience. For instance, at one point 
 where you are trying to mess around with a computer, the door locks and one of the monsters starts 
 pounding down the door. You can see another one out of the glass window, so you take out your shotgun 
 and get ready. Its moments like these that make this game worth having. 
  
  Gameplay: The flashlight/gun thing isn't the best idea ever, but it still makes it more scary. 
 There is a ductape mod out there for everyone who cant stand the flashlight idea. The gunplay itself 
 is satisfying, and the guns look really cool and futuristic. The pistol is the only gun i hate 
 though, because its sound is horrible and it looks really fat for some reason. Besides that, the 
 guns and monsters rock. 
  
  Graphics: What hasn't been said about the graphics? No matter what those people who hate this game, 
 the textures and bump mapping make my day. This is the prettiest game ever, and im not going to 
 rehash what everyone else said. 
  
  Sound: There is almost no music in this game, which may sound boring, but the ambient sound effects 
 are GREAT! You may often hear footsteps, or clanking of metal while walking. Later on you hear 
 betreugar taunting you, and at one point you hear the "baby". Im not going to spoil that part for 
 you though... 
  
  The only bone i have to pick with the sound is the gun sounds. There is a sound mod that adds better 
 sounds to the guns. 
  
  value: The replayability of this game isn't that high, but lets say a year later, it'll be just 
 as fun to play again. Why? because of the scariness of it, and maybe you computer would be good 
 enough to actually run this game on high settings :p 
  
  Tilt: i tilted it because of the atmosphere. So far, in my book, this game is unparalelled in atmosphere, 
 and shadows and stuff like that. Being alone in a base full of hellspawn has never been so realistic..
 
  
  Conclusion: Get this game if you want to be scared. Its not for the light-hearted people, and the 
 people who want a multiplayer shooter. If you want multiplayer, go get unreal tournament 2004. 
 I love it, and i will write a review for it. 
  
  Also dont get this game if your computer isn't good, you'll only have to wait. My current computer 
 has a horrible graphics card (Nvidia fx 5200) but can still run this game. Its not like you need 
 an alienware to run this thing. 
  
  If your not sure after that review if you like the game or not, give it a rent. The middle of the 
 game (the later alpha levels) are a little tedious, however after going to hell and back, you'll 
 be glad you gave it a shot. Theres an expansion pack coming out for this game, so consider playing 
 doom!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTM360
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2005 7:04 am PT
Review:  The DOOM franchise is known by most, if not all gamers. This latest installment features some amazing 
 technology to create some of the most realistic environments video-gaming has seen. In DOOM 3 you 
 start off as a lone soldier landing on Mars and reporting to his station. When asked to find a 
 scientist, you find he's opened a portal to Hell, and.... well all Hell has broken loose, literally. 
 And, spoiler or not, that's the story for you. Nothing special, so if the Story is nothing, the 
 game needs some serious gameplay right? Wrong. DOOM 3 sticks with what works, or what "worked" 
 from when the original DOOM was released long long ago. 
  
  Your Marine Soldier wil be armed with a ridiculous arsenal of weaponry, which shows this game also 
 has no need for at least some realism, which is interesting since you lose health for falling, 
 or run at a regular speed, which begs the question, "How does he carry all those big guns?". Anyway, 
 you'll begin the game armed with a measly pistol which will serve no purpose whatsoever after you 
 very soon after retrieve the shotgun, which sadly becomes the games powerhouse weapon. The BFG-9000 
 returns to DOOM and still will destroy anything in its path, and by the time you find it, it won't 
 serve much purposed based on the weapon you must use to close the gate of Hell. The standard Rocket 
 Launcher, Machine Gun, and Plasma gun are here, but don't do anything to differentiate themselves 
 from other games. Pretty basic here in terms of weaponry, and, as said, the only one you should 
 care about is your trusty shotgun.
  
  The gameplay also tries to "scare" you. Which more or less turns into, "woah" that kinda made me 
 move the mouse and now I can't see my enemy. You'll never jump out of your seat, or refuse to play 
 the game in pure fear, rather become frustrated by the fact you jumped and can't find your enemy. 
 The gameplay suffers a serious problem with repetition. While the areas do change from time to 
 time, the enemies do not. You'll range about 10 different enemies, and a few bosses. It just becomes 
 a chore after a while to continue killing the same enemies with the same weapons.
  
  As everyone pretty much knows, DOOM 3 is gorgeous, and requires a pretty nice graphics card to 
 do everything the game can do. The lighting effects are absolutely spectacular. Dark areas work 
 extremely well forcing you to use your, well represented, flashlight. Which provides more "scare" 
 tactic, and wonderful lighting effects. The game also is pretty interactive, so you can shoot out 
 lights, and things of that nature. Another nice lighting touch is the enemies all have glowing 
 red eyes which look very good while in dark areas.
  
  DOOM 3 also supports a great soundtrack, and as unoriginal the weapons maybe, the sounds are great. 
 Each weapon does have a very unique sound that is easily known. The screeches of your Hell-spawn 
 foes, again, while not terrifying, they still are pretty nice. Althought the game doesn't feature 
 much talking, what there is, is well-done. The music is something that can also be enjoyed, but 
 has some slight repeatition problems.
  
  DOOM 3 doesn't offer any replayability whatsoever. It does feature online deathmatch, but that's 
 it. That is also incredibly stale given the games that offer immense multi-player today. The deathmatch 
 is nothing special at all, and the maps aren't either. The multi-player is not worth your time 
 given the fact every other online game has better deathmatch than DOOM 3. 
  
  Overall DOOM 3 is recommended to anyone who has the hardware to play the game. The game could've 
 been much better than it was, but unfortunately, DOOM 3 is too full of itself to offer you something 
 you've never seen before other than visual eye-candy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brentos37
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 18, 2005 2:42 am PT
Review:  With a scare here and there the main bulk of horror comes from the monsters jumping out at you. 
 Though, I find that the true horror comes from the underlying tones in the game. In your PDA you 
 can get messages on your email by running over designated areas or downloading them. I feel the 
 scariest part in the game is right after you start the massacre. I won't spoil anything but I must 
 say DON'T BE BOTHERED WHILE PLAYING, IT INCREASES THE FUN FACTOR 5-FOLD.
  
  That being said the graphics are stunning blah blah blah. 
  
  Solid Shooter, Great visuals, 
 no music whatsoever, this translastes into and 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HotRod109
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This is the best looking PC game I have seen. With that said lets talk about game play. With it's 
 graphic's aside it's a normal FPS with the exception of some puzzle's here and there but thankfully 
 the puzzle's our not that hard. Ok lets talk about the A. I the A. I is just not that good and not 
 that bad it's 50/50 the reason I say that is sometimes you will see the A. I get hung on a wall 
 and sometimes they will just stand there just looking at you and not do anything while you blast 
 them. as for the mutiplayer it's your normal DM, TDM nothing else. The bottom line if your a fan 
 of Doom it's a must have.
  
  The good: Great graphics and sound.
  
  The bad: A. I does some pertty stupid things.
  
  The good: A good mix of action and puzzle salving
 
  
  The bad: Would have liked to see more mutiplayer options
  
  The good: Will keep you playing for days the story is at least 20 hours long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hifoo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 7, 2005 3:53 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a game that many people were looking forward to alot. Sure it has been many years to 
 come, but it came with short comings. Technically the game is a huge amazing step into a great 
 direction. As everyone has noticed it is an outstanding in the visual department. The atmosphere 
 is very well put together and the story should have allowed for a great game. 
  
  You can ask what happened? Well now in 2004 so many great shooters from the past and present have 
 great raised the bar in the first person shooter genre, and Doom just did not take notice on what 
 elements should and do effect todays standards. The gameplay of Doom 3 is very repetitive, and 
 uninteresting after the first 3 hours. 
  
  Do not get me wrong those first 3 hours are a hell of a ride. The game totally brings you into 
 the mar base, with an incredibly eerie and scary atmosphere. The graphics and sound can be said 
 to achieve this. The modeling and lighting is what really takes it to the top of the list. I will 
 say that some of the textures do look very plastic and unnatural. On a side note, I believe Half-life 
 2 has the texture/environment graphics down at the moment. Now on to the sound, there is no real 
 sound track to the game. It is purely sound effects through out the game. The amazingly dark hall 
 ways are filled with moaning zombies, creepy sounds of walking demons, and the occasional demon 
 laugh. The voice acting is also top notch. Some of the best I have heard I would say, but it is 
 kinda a disappointment that there is no visuals that come along with the voice acting due to the 
 PDA voice files.
  
  The PDA is an important part in advancing in the game. Who would have thought that so many people 
 would just have their PDAs all over the base, and they always are on the desk of some sort of computer 
 station. Its the futures, I would have thought that computers would have been tiny, not giant machines. 
 Also what is with the lighting? Seriously, I know they wanted a scary game, but the base still 
 has power, I dont know how any work could have ever been done there, because you cant see anything 
 half the time. Fluorescent lights are not that dim. I think it is a cheap way to improve the lacking 
 gameplay.
  
  After the first few hours, the gameplay comes very uninteresting. Almost every single room and 
 hallway there will be some sort of demon or zombie to kill. So you will start to see them all coming 
 and know where they probably will spawn. Another weird choice, with the spawning demons. If demons 
 could spawn so easily at your location, why wouldnt a million just spawn and get it over with? 
 The game adds little improvements with the addition of bigger and badder hell creatures, but they 
 just arent impressive enough to save the game. When it all comes down to it, you will be running 
 through a huge mar base in very dim light, finding PDA files for door codes while shooting the 
 same things over and over. 
  
  There is one big changed near the end of the game though, the visit to hell. Wow it is actually 
 a welcomed changed. Its a very cool enviroment, but I dont think it is quite "hell" enough for 
 my imagination. Its a great change for the game but why is it so damn short? The level is only 
 about 15-20 minutes long, and thats including the boss battle. Then its back to the base for the 
 same look and same door opening. 
  
  Doom 3 is a technical achievement but they forgot that 2004+ looks and sound cant help 1995 gameplay. 
 No variety or change kill a great potential of a game. If you want to test your video card or sound 
 card, dont hesitate to try doom 3. I feel once you get past the initial scare factor you will only 
 want to continue the game to see Hell and the bosses. It just cant compete with Half life 2, UT2004, 
 or Far Cry's gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Doom has been long known for the story and the great accomplishments in the past, but now, Doom 
 3 has taken it to a whole new level of horror.
  
  Gameplay: Doom has been a great game for me, the weapons in this game are kick butt, and you really 
 feel like your the last one, just fighting your way through countless mobs of enemies. The game 
 is focused a lot more on horror then shooting which is not really bad just a certain twist in the 
 style of gameplay. You start off in a Mars space facility and everything seems to be going well 
 until something goes wrong and you have to find out what, regroup, and the basic old thing, but 
 it's what goes on that counts. I find it quite annoying that everytime your main objective is to 
 find the group, but that group dies or runs farther away from you, and you just either gotta find 
 another one, or travel farther to that one, but it's still fun.
  
  Graphics: Blew me away! This game was just drop down one of the best graphical games I have ever 
 seen, you don't need that powerful of a card to run it even, at least not for me. I didn't notice 
 any fram rate or any slow down, and the games gore is quite outstanding as well.
  
  Sound: People screaming at you over the headset, and all that really makes you rush to find them, 
 truly took a lot of hard work, and the voice overs are well done.
  
  Doom fans, pick this up, and let's wait for the next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMeRuInEr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Unless you've been on Mars for 10 years alone in a cave with your ears plugged, you've heard of 
 the revolutionary Doom series that changed gaming forever. Now, after ten years of wait, Doom 3 
 comes along after Doom 2: Hell on Earth was released in 1994.
  
  The year is 2145. Mars is now colonized. You play as a nameless, voiceless Marine who is sent to 
 Mars on security detail. However, all hell breaks loose (literally) on the Martian surface. Demons 
 everywhere infest many different areas. And you must fight your way to the last demon to destroy 
 the portal to and from hell.
  
  And it basically ends there. The stroyline is very disappointing, and the game is EXTREMELY repetitive. 
 Also, what's with the not being able to have a flashlight on your gun, even though it's the 22nd 
 century?
  
  The graphics are nothing short of amazing. Almost everything has specular bump-mapping, everything 
 cast real-time shadows, and as you hold the flashlight, you can actually see dust particles float 
 around. Particles of DUST.
  
  The sound is also very good, too. Many creepy sound can send a chill up your spine. The voice acting 
 could be a bit better, but it's still quite decent.
  
  In short, Doom 3 basically just induces a 20-hour cardiac episode, and you WILL be scared stiff. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kage_prototype
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2005 12:12 am PT
Review:  In many ways, Doom 3 is very much like the new and improved cacodemon you encounter during the 
 game. Yes, it's still a big floating strawberry that regurgitates fireballs at you. In fact, it 
 looks more like a big floating strawberry than in the original Doom. But what a gloriously rendered, 
 demonic and hugely entertaining strawberry it is. You've never seen strawberries like this before, 
 and other strawberries cower before its mighty presence. In other words, Doom 3 is a good-looking, 
 fun game that doesn't deviate too far from the tried and tested formula Id set down many years 
 ago, and is a great example of how to do a good FPS.
  
  Doom 3 is a remake of the classic first person shooter video game Doom, released in 1993, both 
 of which were created by id Software. You play a newly recruited marine who has just arrived on 
 Mars, at the Union Aerospace Corporation (UAC) research facility. The facility is used for various 
 moral and immoral (and illegal) experiments, one of these being teleportation experiments. Soon 
 after you arrive, an experiment goes wrong, and demons from hell invade the base. Of course, you're 
 one of only a handful of survivors, and soon enough the fate of Earth itself rests in your hands.
 
  
  Aside from a few alterations and additions (for example in the original you were sent to Mars as 
 punishment) , the plot remains largely unchanged from the original. The introduction of characters 
 does nothing more but provide a vehicle for the plot to explain itself a bit, as well as give id 
 creative licence to not explain things from the offset. Players must put the pieces together themselves 
 if they want to appreciate the whole picture, from the occasional cutscene and from Personal Data 
 Assistants (or PDA) scattered across the facility. These provide insights into the everyday life 
 of the workers before the accident, as well as some humorous distractions in the form of e-mails 
 and audio logs (one memorable e-mail describes how a shipment of jackhammers was scheduled, only 
 for the facility to receive chainsaws. "Why would we need chainsaws on Mars?!" the author proclaims) . 
 Truth be told, there isn't much plot here, and any extra details gained from reading PDAs are not 
 mandatory for understanding what happened (even though they are interesting to read) .
  
  Of course, intricate storyline and plot are not Doom 3's objective here. Id Software set out to 
 create an action-packed horror game, and indeed they have. This game is intense, and there is never 
 a moment in which you feel safe. Thanks in part to the incredible graphics (more on that later) 
 and great use of sound (ditto) , this game is a very claustrophobic, atmospheric, and ultimately 
 scary game. You spend almost all of your time inside the base, crawling through dimly lit corridors 
 and laboratories, with the occasional run through the incredibly harsh Martian atmosphere outside 
 (some of the best parts of the game funnily enough) , in which you must run to the next airlock 
 before your oxygen runs out. Because you can never have a weapon and a flashlight out at the same 
 time, you spend a lot of time switching between the two as you try to pre-empt any potential demon 
 that might jump out at you from a dark corner. Some people consider this a hindrance, but I found 
 it as a great way to heighten tension. Would you rather be able to defend yourself, or be able 
 to see clearly? Besides, it only requires a quick press of the "f" key to switch between your flashlight 
 and last previous weapon, so it's not as much of an annoyance as some people might portray it as. 
 And if you can't see what you're shooting at, a quick grenade throw clears things up.
  
  The gameplay itself is not that different from the original. All of the original weapons and monsters 
 are back, with a few extra additions (which I'd prefer not to spoil for you) . However, the most 
 you do is walk through corridors and shoot enemies that slowly advance towards you, popping out 
 of walls and dark corners. This is one of the few problems of the game; the AI is less than stellar. 
 I realise that there isn't much you can do with demons that just want to kill you quickly and violently, 
 but still, there seems to be some wasted opportunity. For example, in a lot of cutscenes, you see 
 the imp creature climbing on walls and ceilings. Why don't they do this when you're fighting them? 
 The most they do is pounce at you, and this in itself is rare. They usually just walk towards you 
 throwing fireballs. Also, the marine zombies could have used some more group tactics, as they are 
 certainly more intelligent than normal zombies. But the most they do is hide behind crates. It 
 would have been great to see them support each other and give you a good battle, but alas, this 
 never happens. Also, the way the monsters are delivered could have used a bit more imagination. 
 Most of the time, the monsters either spawn behind you, or pop out of a "monster closet", which 
 is when you set off an invisible trigger that allows a seemingly normal wall to fly open, unleashing 
 hidden zombies and monsters in tiny cramped rooms. This sort of thing can quickly kill the atmosphere 
 and "believability" the game creates. Though, fair enough, if you believe the forces of hell are 
 attacking Mars, I'm sure you'd be able to suspend your own disbelief for the cheap ways in which 
 monsters appear.
  
  At first glance, the gameplay might seem repetitive and unoriginal, and thus boring to some people. 
 Thankfully id software really know how to make a game enjoyable in other areas. While the gameplay 
 might seem dated, the atmosphere created is quite the opposite. Just like a good movie, if you 
 get immersed in it enough, you can see past its negative aspects and enjoy it for what it is. This 
 is exactly the case with Doom 3. I'm being quite honest when this is the most immersive experience 
 I've had with a video game. I would attribute most of this down to the few opening levels, which 
 are nigh on perfect. When you arrive at Mars City at the beginning of the game, the detail is just 
 unrivalled. You can see people walking around getting on with their business, watch promotional 
 videos about the facility itself, talk to people, overhear conversations, read news bulletins etc. 
 Id obviously learnt a thing or two from Half-Life's memorable opening scenes.
  
  But things really get interesting when everything starts to go wrong. Quite possibly the most intense 
 opening in an FPS ever, you're fully convinced that the **** has hit the fan. Your radio is full 
 of garbled messages from marines screaming and dying in battle, security cameras showing normal 
 workers becoming possessed zombies, with you trying to fend off zombies and imps while avoiding 
 explosions and malfunctioning machinery all around you. And once you manage to get outside through 
 an airlock, the stinging wind noises and radio messages combine to create an incredibly hellish 
 environment. You really feel alone, and are left wondering just what the hell is happening to everyone.
 
  
  And the great thing about this is that the tension never really wears off, although things do become 
 a lot less hectic. Just when you feel like you've seen it all before, something happens to heighten 
 the tension and immerse you even more, for example whispers in your ear, or the sound of a baby 
 crying without any visible source, or the lights going off and hellish laughter ringing all around 
 the room. The effect this sort of atmosphere creates is incredible, and will definitely stick with 
 you long after you've experienced it. It gets even better when you travel to Hell, with things 
 becoming so intense it's almost unbareable. However, as with other games that try to scare you, 
 it doesn't work for everyone. Not everyone is as easily scared as other people, and some will see 
 past the cheap tricks and find that there isn't much else to the game. Indeed, if you play in the 
 wrong sort of environment, for example with the window open and listening to music, you won't be 
 scared. If you want to experience this game in all of its glory, take Id Software's advice and 
 play alone, at night, with the lights off and the door locked. You will most likely only enjoy 
 this game if it scares you.
  
  For once, the gameplay isn't what makes this game enjoyable. The two main components that make 
 this game so great are the sound and graphics. I think the graphics speak for themselves, and if 
 you've ever seen a screenshot or a video, you know what I mean. Bump-mapping is used on almost 
 every surface, giving things an incredible detail you just wouldn't notice with flat textures. 
 Specular and diffuse lighting are used to great effect, and are really shown off later in the game. 
 However, the main star of the show is undoubtedly the fully dynamic lighting, which adds an element 
 of realism you wouldn't get with a game that uses pre-compiled shadow maps. Every single shadow 
 is rendered in real-time, and makes otherwise fantastic looking enemies and environments into unbelievable 
 spectacles. You can never fully appreciate it without seeing it in motion.
  
  The use of sound is equally impressive. Rather than use pre-defined music (beside the Main Menu 
 music, composed by Tweaker) , the game utilises ambient sound effects created from things inside 
 the base. These include things like machines whirring, lights flickering, wind blowing through 
 vents, monster screams in the distant etc. Hell, even the sounds the game makes when picking up 
 armour are loud and jarring. Coupled with 5.1 surround sound support, the effect created is timeless, 
 and only adds to the immersion and tension.
  
  However, probably the thing that's on everyone's minds is whether the game will run on their PC. 
 The minimum specification is somewhat more demanding than competing games like Far Cry or Half-Life 
 2, requiring a 1.5Ghz processor with a 64MB video card and 384MB of RAM. However, contrary to Stavr0's 
 comments (not to imply he's wrong) , multiple benchmark tests have shown that if you meet these 
 minimum requirements, you should be able to run the game at low detail on 640x480 resolution at 
 a somewhat playable rate (and it will still look incredible) . If you get low fps in the opening 
 levels, then that is because of the amount of detail that is packed into them. Your fps should 
 lighten up later on when you can't see as much. However, it is no secret that this game is demanding, 
 and if you want to get a better experience, you'll want at least a 2Ghz machine with a DX9-ready 
 video card (preferably one from nVidia) and 512MB RAM. Luckily most computer retailers usually 
 don't sell computers that are below this specification, and if you have a fairly recent computer 
 i. e. bought within the last year and a half or so, you'll be fine.
  
  But what about Multiplayer? Well, it's not much. Id have always said they want to focus on a single-player 
 experience with Doom 3, and as such the multi-player feels tacked on, with only 5 maps and at default 
 only 4 players at once (although some servers have up to 16-player support now) . What is more suprising 
 is that Id had a seperate company (Splash Damage) to develop multiplayer for them, and it still 
 turns out to be a large let down. The dynamic lighting and weapons don't offer anything new outside 
 of a Quake 3 deathmatch, and coupled with a somewhat rushed netcode and easy cheating, its surprisingly 
 disappointing from a company with a reputation for fun multiplayer. In other words, don't buy Doom 
 3 looking for a great multiplayer, because you won't get it. Also, the lack of a co-op mode is 
 also surprising, as one of the original Doom's most popular aspects was it's co-operative mode. 
 However, Id Software have said that this will appear on the XBox version, and it isn't on the PC 
 purely because the envisioned it as a purely single-player game. Apparently co-op gameplay is more 
 of a console thing. Don't shoot the messenger. However, althorrat informs me the fast-growing mod 
 community is developing some form of co-op for the PC, which should excite some people.
  
  However, besides these few annoyances, Doom 3 is very much the game Id Software promised us; an 
 incredibly detailed horror action game, that focuses on delivering an intense single-player experience. 
 The single-player portion should last you around 15-20 hours, and while the multiplayer itself 
 is lacking somewhat, the mod community should help fix this. Don't expect to get the second coming 
 in PC video games; because Doom 3 will disappoint you. This game was simply designed to scare you, 
 not be the single greatest game of all time. As long as you don't expect oranges when buying apples, 
 you'll love it. Doom 3 is scary, good-looking, atmospheric, and above all, great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chutney_Ferret
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  While Doom 3 isn't a bad game by any stretch - the graphics are amazing, sound is great and its 
 all quite exciting to start with, I can't help feel that ,unlike Valve with HL2, ID have let themselves 
 down with Doom 3. Being a fairly good FPS with great graphics just isn't enough for a game with 
 this pedigree - it needed to be better. Far Cry is a much better game - bigger environments, MUCH 
 better AI, more variety, (slightly) better plot and of course there is HL2 now too.
  
  Give those two a go first and then get Doom 3 if you need some more singleplayer action. Better 
 yet, buy Battlefield 1942 or Joint Ops and get hundreds more hours of gameplay for your money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maedakentaro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2005 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I have mixed feelings about Doom3. On one hand, the game is truly one of the most advanced First 
 Person Shooters to date. On the other hand, it's repetitive gameplay was really not worth the hype 
 surrounding Doom3 's release. 
  Let me begin with the bright side. The graphics are truly awesome. Id Software has built an immersive 
 base on mars in the 22nd century. The monsters are disgusting. They die spilling their stuff all 
 over the place. The doors open and shut with a sound that really scare the hell out of you. 
  On the darker side, the game is literally too dark. You're going to wander around in the dark for 
 more than 10hours, and it really gets annoying to the end. I mean, why on earth do the weapons 
 have no flashlights attatched? Hey, it's the 22nd century, man! Also, whereas Half-Life1 took its 
 location inside a research facility but constantly changed indoors and outdoors, the huge bulk 
 of Doom3 takes place inside the same facility with the same-looking corridors and walls. Therefore, 
 the game gets repetitive quite early on. 
  All in all, Doom3 is quite a solid FPS. However, I think the game would have been a lot better 
 if the issues mentioned above were tackled prior to the release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximusmmii
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I got this came on july 3, the day it came out. PC gamer had given it 95%, so i went to the mall 
 and bought this game for $60 (including tax.) without hesitation. When i got home and installed 
 it i was disapointed by the terrible frame rates that i was getting even though i had a 128 mb 
 video card. i then remembered that my brother had stolen a ram stick from my computer and i was 
 left with a measly 256 mbs. i took my ram back and the game became playable. the graphics and cinamatics 
 were beautiful but there was one drawback, the game was way too dark. i admit that the whole darkness 
 thing is scary as hell, especially when you come into a room, turn on your flashlight and see a 
 zombie standing a foot away from you. but the problem is that every single level is completely 
 dark, it would have been better if there was some kind of variety, almost every single level in 
 doom 3 looks exactly the same, very single level in the game is pitch black, and every single level 
 in the game is incredibly claustraphobia inducing. also there is barely any variety in the gameplay, 
 unlike in half-life 2 where you can ride vehicles, throw stuff at people using the gravity gun, 
 etc. in doom 3 all you do is walk around and shoot things. in the beginning its fun but later on 
 becomes annoying; after a few hours of playing doom 3, switching between the flashlight and your 
 gun becomes a chore. The AI in this game absolutely sucks, the monsters either just stand there 
 and shoot at you or they run at you and hit/bite/cut/scratch you. the multiplayer is so-so, there 
 are only 4 levels or so and you can have a maximum of 4 people on every server. even though this 
 game has a relatively long single player campaign, the mediocraty of its multiplayer mode and its 
 lack of replay value made me spend less time with this game than with other much shorter games. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I think most people agree that Doom 3 is a love-it or hate-it game; in fact, it probably fell far 
 below most peoples' expectations. It retains a very simple gameplay mechanic that may feel dated 
 compared to many other shooters. Gamers may also have been annoyed with the flashlight system, 
 the enemy-spawn system, and the lack of enemy AI as the demons leap right at the player. Moreover 
 many felt that the gun sounds felt a little wimpy. Amongst other things, the multiplayer was inadequate 
 and initially only supported 4 players. Furthermore, Doom 3 required some serious hardware to even 
 run it. So, it is with these problems that I find myself still enjoying the game.
  
  Although not the first FPS, the original Doom games are probably the most famous. In it belonged 
 the core of shoot everything in sight gaming which became the paradigm for the FPS genre. Other 
 style of games such as RPGs utitlised first-person perspective, but running and gunning became 
 the norm for all FPS. Later on games like Half-Life required a little more intelligence with logical 
 puzzles and enemy AI tactics. But Doom 3 goes right back to its roots with an old-school gameplay 
 of blasting demons from hell. The fact that they are mindless zombies/demons also excuses the spawning 
 and simplistic AI. Everything in the game is made simple; the context-sensitive reticule allows 
 the player to seamlessly interact with terminals. But there are two major things where the game 
 really shines.
  
  Firstly, the graphics are phenomenal. I have yet to see a better looking game and the lighting 
 effects are second to none. Terminals are clearly legible and there is a crisp quality to the textures. 
 The characters and demons are some of the best delineations I have ever seen. This leads me to 
 the second thing  the atmosphere. The atmosphere is really creepy and immerses you immediately. 
 5.1 surround helps with this too as the soundtrack is excellent and really puts one on edge. I 
 did not have the same complaints with the gun sounds as most people did, but I had the bass turned 
 all the way up on powerful speakers.
  
  I think the main problem with most peoples frustration with this game is the fact that they couldnt 
 get into the game. I believe I may have the solution. One should definitely have a good sound source 
 (5.1, headphones etc) and only play with lights off. Secondly, one should completely disregard 
 the quicksave/quickload functions. The latter really helps. I was fortunate enough to have discovered 
 this early as I was definitely on edge most of the time. Not quicksaving all the time got me more 
 into the game. The last thing to do would be to play on the hard difficulty setting.
  
  I think the infamous flashlight system requires its own paragraph. You cannot have a gun and a 
 flashlight equipped at the same time. Many thought this as another flaw in the game another cheap 
 scare tactic. But it works. It does not seem logical that in the future a gun would not have a 
 flashlight attached or a marine would not have access to night-vision goggles, but I have learned 
  in my experience  to not nitpick certain details as all forms of narrative, especially cinema, 
 have their flaws. Moreover, you will get use to the flashlight system and eventually develop regularity 
 with switching between the flashlight and guns.
  
  Speaking of the guns, the acclaimed soul cube is loads of fun. For every 5 enemies vanquished, 
 you basically get a free kill. Other notable weapons are the BFG 9000 and of course the shotgun.
 
  
  I admit that there are a lot of cheap tactics used to provide a scare, but they seem to work 
 here  mainly because the game is unique enough to afford it but I do not think they would work 
 in another game. After the completion of this game, you would have had your fill of these. The 
 expansion pack will definitely require some new gameplay elements in order to succeed. My major 
 complaint with this game would be the value component. Once you play through you might not want 
 to replay, nor is the multiplayer that good. Hopefully some mods should be on the way, and the 
 Doom 3 engine has a lot of potential (especially with lighting effects) . To cut a long story short, 
 I enjoyed Doom 3 right till the end, but I would not play this game or a game of this type anytime 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_pinkass
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2005 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the sequel to a genre defining series. Ever heard of a Doom-like?
  You land on Mars as a security guy who is there to fix some stuff up. Until it all goes terribly 
 wrong. 
  At first, everything is great... especially the graphics! The shadow engine isn't only top-notch, 
 it's the best there is. Id's engine is visually stunning. You won't find better right now, even 
 after 6 months it's been out... Except maybe in Half Life 2 but in a different way. 
  The one major flaw in that game is how repetitive it is! You play for an hour and then you just 
 get bored. This game is so linear. Another major flaw is the fact that you cannot attach your flashlight 
 to you gun. So you will have to stretch a new finger for the "F" pad. 
  
  Gameplay: pros: Cool guns... CHAINSAW
  Cons: No flashlight and gun at the same time
  
  Graphics: 
 pros: A great looking game with the best shadow engine
  Cons: It's dark all the time so you will barely see anything during the whole game... Well maybe 
 Im overreacting.
  
  Sound: pros: Nothing special here
  Cons: Nothing special here either
  
  Value: pros: A cool storyline
  Cons: So repetitive and 
 boring after a certain amount of time
  
  DOOM 3 is an "OK" game. I recommend you buy this if you are looking for one of the best looking 
 games available. Don't get me wrong, DOOM 3 isn't bad it just isn't good enough for me to recommend 
 it to anybody.
  
  P. S: It's not even scary ^^
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20257018376039478582138518186741-curiosgeorge885
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2005 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the highly acclaimed FPS from id Software, and is: dissapointing, yet not dissapointing. 
 I'll explain in my review.
  
  Doom 3 has basically a boring story, but still, that isn't the highlight of the game. The series 
 is known for it's genre-defining gameplay, not the story. But now, the action has aged quite a 
 bit. It's just shooting zombies... that's all there is too it. But there are some cool twists in 
 the game to make it stay fresh 'till the end. Like how zombies are moaning and you don't know where 
 they are, and tension builds up. But after a while, though, this gets kind of frusturating, and 
 even though you will be nervous to turn around the next hall or open the next door being nervous 
 about what kind of freak you will encounter, it's just plain frusturating. 
  
  You have a varied enough arsenal with a pistol, a machine gun etc... but still, even that's flawed. 
 You don't have a flash light on any of your guns, so you have to press "f" every time you want 
 to take out your little AA battery flashlight. This adds even more frusturation to the combat.
 
  
  Speaking of combat, the combat in Doom 3 never stops. Like in games like RE 4, you fight a whole 
 lot, and then after the wave of enemies you get to take a break because as you go through the environment 
 no enemies really come at you for the next 2-3 minutes.
  But in this game, you never get a break from the adrenaline rush. Some may find this exciting, 
 but others who think the combat is frusturating enough are in for non-stop action.
  And that WILL turn them off.
  
  So anyways, the story. You are basically a marine or something 
 (it's not very clear at the beggining) who go's to a space station on mars, and minutes after arriving 
 a portal from hell opens up with monsters all over the place. For some reason, everyone else is 
 a zombie except for you, which is mildly confusing. At least the story isn't the only thing being 
 reviewed...
  
  ... Which brings us to the games main feature: the graphics. The graphics are STUPPENDOUSLY AMAZING. 
 Just by looking at them, they can take your breath away. I really don't have to talk about how 
 great they are, but there's unsurprisingly one problem with the stability. This game has some major 
 stability issues on some computers. Like my Father's Dell laptop woth 1024mb of RAM, 128 vid. card, 
 and 2.8 ghz, it crashed on the intro movie dozens of times. But on my Dell Desktop Dimension 4600 
 512mb of RAM, 128vid. card, and 2.8 ghz, it runs fine (on low resolution) . The sound is great. 
 No problems her. Just terrible voice acting. 
  
  All in all, Doom 3 was, to me, the most dissapointing game of 2004. But yet, it wasn't, because 
 it was striving for excellent graphics, and it did, and that makes it not dissapointing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2005 5:33 am PT
Review:  With jaw dropping visuals and technology, Doom 3 seamlessly combines arresting chills, blazing 
 action and wicked style. Indeed, it also embroiders the very meaning of the word 'scary' into its 
 steely core. 
  
  Doom 3's top notch presentation and sense of fear should be reason enough to own this game, however 
 there are some unfortunate snags. Firstly, this is at current date of print the most technically 
 demanding PC game ever made - make sure your machine is every bit a monster as some of this games 
 foes otherwise you will find yourself unable to experience it properly. 
  
  Secondly, if you have played such challenging and ripe games as Half Life 2 and Halo 2 recently, 
 you may find the gameplay aspect of Doom 3 to be somewhat underwhelming. Enemy AI for instance, 
 is quite clich and obtuse. So too is the claustrophobic level design and the linear play aspect. 
 
  
  Still, Doom 3 is one of the finest First Person Shooters in years, and is very possibly the scariest 
 game ever made - nuff said. 
  
  9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venda4k
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2005 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was above average to say the last, the game didnt leave any lasting impression on me like 
 HL2 or Far Cry, it seemed to drag on forever with its dark hallways, im sure if they turned the 
 light up a little the graphics wouldnt be all that good, just the dark makes em seems like it, 
 the multiplayer was the worst piece of crap ive ever seen in my life, lag, u cant hardly kill nuthing, 
 the monsters are repetative after a whilr and the shock value soon wears thin, wot were ID thinking, 
 ill give doom 3 the benefit of the doubt... its not the worst fps ever but its not the best, OVERHYPED 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yasso
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 18, 2005 10:45 am PT
Review:  The first comment I'd like to make here is that the guys at GameSpot continue to impress me, most 
 of the time, by the scores that they give to games, and the reviews that they make. These guys 
 are really doing a great job in pushing the gaming industry forward, without succumbing to pure 
 money matters, or at the very least, doing the extra effort of balancing the indispensable money 
 matters with the ethics of reviewing and the responsibilities of a team like them in the development 
 of this industry.
  
  I'm saying this because I was expecting each and every gaming website and magazine out there to 
 get in line for the rave and hype behind Doom 3, and give it highly inflated scores. And I was 
 expecting that GameSpot's team would feel obliged to give Doom 3 a minimum of 9, just to push it 
 to an Editor's Choice category. However, they sure enough surprised and eventually impressed me 
 very much with a score of 8.5.
  
  Doom 3 is an evident proof from the gaming world that "little things do matter" in life. And this 
 is why I gave Doom 3 a classification of "Almost, but not quite". It annoys me that Doom 3 just 
 needed a few small changes and improvements here and there to *easily* make it to the golden, almost 
 one-in-a-lifetime seat of "Classic". Back in the early and mid 90s, it was *much* easier to develop 
 a game that would be called a Classic in the gaming industry. Today... I feel that this is just 
 beyond difficult, nibbling on the line of impossible. And the irony is that Doom 3 was nibbling 
 on the line of Classic. What a shame and loss!
  
  You simply have to notice that the best games of 2004, and the best games generally today, mostly 
 take 5 years to develop. Whereas some of the best movies can very well be finished in a couple 
 of years. And even though Doom 3 and Half Life 2 took so many years to develop, eventually none 
 of them could earn the title of Classic, but maybe World of Warcraft did... maybe.
  
  Sorry to diverge just a little from the specific subject of Doom 3 in my review, but it is just 
 that Doom 3 is really such a controversial game. It is plain weird! It's like I WANT to like it, 
 but I can't, not with its overall image and impression. It's like it *really* impresses me, but 
 it also makes me wonder, "Then what's wrong?!"
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Doom 3 showcases absoltely breathtaking in-game graphics, as of the expectations of today's gamer 
 in 2004. idSoftware went so far with graphics in Doom 3 that you do not even think twice when you 
 are asked which game had the best graphics in 2004. This aspect of the game is simply revolutionary, 
 even when compared to Half Life 2 itself. Of course, you must have a high-end system and preferably 
 a GeForce 6800 gfx card to know what I'm talking about.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound in Doom 3 is good, but not good enough. Good voice acting, given that there is very little 
 room here for highly emotional acting anyway. Acceptable and relevant, but very forgettable music. 
 Very good sound effects, but again, not impressive enough when compared to the current potential 
 of sound effects in games, properly showcased in a game like MGS3: Snake Eater.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Downright annoying! Ok, that's farfetched, but that was just a quick emotional comment. 
 It is annoying simply because it could've been *so* much better for God's sake. I mean, Why idSoftware? 
 Why John Carmack? Why, why?
  
  I can either use a flashlight or a weapon?? What, I have to be using the flashlight to see anything 
 that NEEDS to be seen, then when I see a monster, I yell out, "Hey! Will you please step out in 
 the light, where I can see you, and give me a second so I can change the flashlight with a weapon 
 and shoot you to death? Thank you, sir."?? Why? There aren't weapons with embedded powerful flashlights 
 and even laser technology in year 2145? And after all the suspicious events, voices heard, and 
 the death of several workers in the Mars research facility, a marine is sent to investigate in 
 these dark areas without infrared or even better 2145-technology for seeing in the dark?
  
  It's not like all this just doesn't make sense from a storytelling perspective, but it happens 
 to also be annoying in gameplay and make the game harder but not with better enemy AI or something 
 else relevant, but with unfair and illogical handicaps imposed upon you as a player. So anyway, 
 you just have to download a mod for embedding a flashlight on your weapons.
  
  However, that mod won't solve the other annoying aspect of enemies spawning almost everywhere and 
 too often behind you, which becomes tasteless, repetitive, and abuses the immersive aspect of the 
 game and totally neutralizes the surprise element.
  
  Finally, there are miscellaneous small things that just don't feel right, or simply make you feel 
 something is wrong, even though you just can't put it in words.
  
  STORY:
  It is worth mentioning as a separate element because it is one of the things that totally humiliates 
 this game. Again, this game could've easily made it into a Classic if it had a great story, with 
 lots of emotional elements. Instead of a "Been There, Done That" story. And personally, I think 
 that many of us have really had it with "demons", "hell", and the habra cadabra in games today; 
 maybe even the same applies to the "alien" trend. The gaming industry is in dire need for a change 
 from these storytelling trends that have become repetitive. It's as if there's a world conspiracy 
 to shove demons, Hell, magic, and the satanic cult down our throats, or to make us all hopelessly 
 superstitious.
  
  VALUE:
  I believe the most evident reason of replayability in the game is Graphics. You may probably like 
 to play it all over again, but after a year, when you've bought a much better graphics card and 
 a more powerful system, just to see how better the game may look, and enjoy a smoother experience. 
 So most of the game's value is in the "stare-at-this" element. Most other aspects of the game fall 
 short in replayability and value.
  
  My tilt? Well, my tilt was a "Reviewer's Tilt" score of 8, and a bitter feeling of "Things could've 
 been much better, idSoftware/John Carmack."
  
  I hope this review properly explains the overall 8.6 score, and the summary of "little things do 
 matter".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I got this game very very much later than when it was released, I just wanted to see if it lived 
 up to the hype. In some ways it did not, and to me it was a very average shooter, but it was the 
 story and the atmosphere that kept me coming back for more. The gameplay is kinda boring, it is 
 no where near Half Life 2. I could play HL2 over and over again and never get bored, the world 
 is just so alive
  
  But doom 3 was too confined, too mazey, and that made it annoying. Also when firing the weapons 
 they didnt seem to pack that UMPH that Half Life 2 or Call of Duty did. the weapons were kinda 
 just... bleh.
  
  But the story and the game were fun overall, so it wasnt THAT bad, i was just kinda let down at 
 the enemies and the weapons. It seemed a little too aliens vs predator for my tastes. I can recomend 
 it, but only as a last thing to do AFTER half life 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpremi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 11, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the must anticipated game out so far. With doom 3 creators, they have truly worked 
 their best toward this title. The Way you play is uist amazin. The game starts of with you being 
 a space marine soldier who is supposed to be transferedto mars to investigate on some strange stuff 
 when this mad and crazy scientist opens up a portal from hell and leta out all that is bad into 
 world. The cool thing in the game has to be the spectacular graphpics in this game. The way it 
 is being whown off is truly amazing. The high details on all the walls are truly awsome including 
 the monsters when they show up out of nowhere and later just jump on you making up have a heart 
 attack. A truly awsome game for all I highlt recommend!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyGamr_basic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 6, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game while I still had a Radeon 9000. It played suprisingly well on medium settings. 
 I have recently upgraded to a 9800pro, and now I can really appreciate the graphics.
  
  The graphics are by far the best that I have seen on any game. It is unbelievable what id has been 
 able to do with the graphics in this game. This obviously will alienate many people who do not 
 have the capabilities of running this game, but for those who can run it, it is eye candy. Wonderful, 
 sweet eye-candy.
  
  The weakspot of this game would have to be it's repatative nature. Shoot... run... reload... shoot 
 some more. However, this is typical of many fps, and it does not bug me as much as it others.
 
  
  I myself like the story of the game. I enjoy the whole evil concept of the game. It definately 
 does have its creepy moments, as well as, some down right scary moments (this is coming from a 
 guy who watches what are considered some of the scariest movies without being frightened.
  
  The sound in this game is amazing. You will hear satanic voices and laughs every once and a 
 while. Also, the creature's growls and shreeks and really quite eery. The terror is enhanced by 
 the terrific sound. The voice acting is also quite wonderful.
  
  Turn the lights off, put on some headphones, and prepare to be frightened. Welcome to Hell!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanu25
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 6, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Well I have been waiting for this game for a looong time. I have read lots of previews that were 
 saying Doom 3 The Revolution. I saw lots of screens and trailers. They were very very good. I was 
 mad - to the release date was still a lot of time. After a long time I have played Doom 3. And 
 after that I was also mad. The game wasn't a revolution, or revelation. It was just a bad game 
 with good shadows and sounds. And that is all what is good in this game. The gameplay is horibble. 
 Everywhere is so dark that you can't see a thing - maybe that's a good idea for mascing the poor 
 graphics. Well the graphics are misreable you can see better graphics in games from the year 2001. 
 Some people are saying that Doom 3 can fear you. I wasn't afraid, and some monsters make me laugh. 
 If you wan't to be afraid during a game, Doom 3 isn't a good choice... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwonsoo
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 5, 2005 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I want all my games to look this good (when the game-world's lights are working) . I don't want 
 any of them to play like it though.
  
  I'm a Doom baby. I first started playing computer games when Doom came out. It was one of my first 
 gaming addictions. Since that time, I've seen games evolve on several fronts; story telling, interaction 
 with the environment, emmersion, sound, graphics, and physical realism. If you want to know what 
 Doom 3 is like, take Doom and increase it's graphics and sounds only. 
  
  The game looks beautiful when the lights are on. The object detail is amazing. The lighting effects 
 and surfaces look awesome. The fact is though, I spent the last half of the game just trying to 
 finish it so I could put it away. It was a very tedius game: Enter area, get jumped from front 
 and back, move forward, leave area... repeat for a good 10 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 5, 2005 3:43 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 isn't as good of a game as I had hoped, but the hair raising visuals and terrifying atmosphere 
 leaves embedded into my mind a disturbing and shocking experience that is not only exhilerating... 
 but for the faint of heart... it could scar you.
  
  I had been following Doom 3 for quite a while as I am an avid fan of Doom and Doom II. The only 
 thing I never knew was the release date. I was in shock when I saw it just sitting there at my 
 local Wal-Mart. So I immediately purchased it.
  
  Upon arriving at my house I made a mad dash to get into the house so I could play my newly purchased 
 game. This is where the nightmare really begins... my computer didn't meet the requirements. In 
 fact, this game made my computer looked crippled... but somehow I managed to fool my computer into 
 thinking it was good enough and was able to run Doom 3 after downloading a driver from Nvidia's 
 website.
  
  So it begins...
  
  I even liked the menu... it was colorful, the background was cool, and the music was pretty cool 
 aswell. I had no idea what was ahead... what terror awaited me. This game really shows you what 
 fear does to you. This game with it's ambient majesty and psychotic sound effects leaves you hearing 
 things... things you would swear were real. 
  
  The graphics are absolutely stellar [10/10] and the gameplay is for the most part, solid. You can 
 definately feel that old familiar feeling that Doom I and Doom II left you with. The graphics will 
 simply blow your mind. The graphics combined with fantastic ambient noise and effects will simply 
 haunt you... leaving you breathless.
  
  In Doom 3 you play a space marine on the planet of Mars in an underground research facility where 
 things are not what they seem. Workers claim to have seem "strange things." Missing workers... 
 blood trails being found, etc. The game starts off calm, cool and collected, similar to the beginning 
 of the first Half Life. Then the poo hits the fan and I mean fast. You are briefed by the colonel 
 and told to head towards a restricted subterranean sector of the research lab where Hell breaks 
 loose... literally.
  
  Apparently a scientist uncovered an ancient artifact that served as a portal between our world... 
 and that of Hell. During your conversation with the scientist responsible for the discovery of 
 the artifact, the machine becomes active. The evil once only in Hell has broken free claiming the 
 lives of almost every single being in the facility. Leaving you helpless, alone and unarmed. You 
 find yourself running from the evil... only with a flashlight.
  
  This is where the terror begins... you hear things, awful things, growls and roars. Sounds no one 
 should hear... the sounds of unimaginable beasts lurking in the shadows waiting to get you. You 
 think it is all clear... until your flashlight hits the darkness with it's revealing beams to display 
 the unholy demons that have entered your world right before they lunge towards you in a violent 
 frenzy... what will you do... how will you survive... this is Hell... this is... DOOM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atomic_gamedev
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2005 11:22 pm PT
Review:  8,985 gamers at this site own this game, and it isn't a suprise. With the most advance technology 
 used to make the game, it instantly became another classic. Theres only a very few games that can 
 be counted on one hand that makes history, and worth getting. Doom III is on top of them all. It 
 has the best graphics ever seen. It gives the classic doom fans what they wanted. The Doom III 
 engine gives developers for the future what they need, and it even comes with a great story which 
 is hard to pull off given the fact that it is Doom. The technology that ID Software used in this 
 game will be used in the future of gaming for atleast the next 5 years. The engine comes with a 
 physics engine, a good sound engine, of course an awesome graphics engine. One of the best ever 
 made, and with lead technician John Carmack behind it, it's no wonder. This game is one of the 
 best in it's form. And if it's doens't get GOTY it's technology behind the game should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acurev
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 30, 2004 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is looked at as more something thats supposed to be innovative. Well its not. 
 You should think of this as being the first or the second with really nice graphics. So basically 
 if your looking for new and innovative Doom 3 is not for you but if you loved the first two and 
 want to relive them with new awesome graphics doom 3 is for you! The only part in the game that 
 lacks is the sound. If only Trent Reznor did all the sounds for game. The guns sound really really 
 dull. There isnt much music to be heard but there is some freaky ambient noise in the background. 
 If your afraid it wont look good on your computer , fear not! This game looks awesome even on low 
 resolutions and downed textures! As far as the game being scary, well its not. I only found one 
 part that actually scared me. Out of the whole game! I would definitly recommend this game to anyone 
 looking for a good Doom remake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tory66
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2004 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is not really what I thought it was gonna be but that doesnt mean it is bad. This is a great 
 game. The grachics are top notch, absolutely second to none. The combat in the game is very well 
 done, the enemies are smart and are animated amazingly. The weapons are really strong but they 
 sound underpowered. The cut scenes are very good and very, very pretty. Doom 3 is the closest thing 
 you will get to a real horror experience. Its like one of those movies that you really wish u could 
 experience. All in all, Doom 3 is an amazing game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: valve_89
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2004 4:21 am PT
Review:  This game is so hard and bloody. I played this and a was frightened many times.
  The graphics are excelent, I run it on a Geforce 5200 Fx. The sound too, because you can hear the 
 zombie's shouts, etc.
  When you play the first two hours are so hard and funny, but then the game put the same things, 
 etc. You can easy learn to play this game, but you must take a almost perfect aim. I recommended 
 to buy first Doom 2, then if you like it you should buy doom 3.
  You can also download the demo of Doom 3 and movies from Game spot link ... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossip00
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2004 8:35 am PT
Review:  The editors who gave this game such a low score certainly do not know what they are talking about! 
 I find the game is simply amazing. I love the graphics and artwork. The ambiance is pure evil, 
 the tension you can cut with a knife. The combat is fast but not too fast, and the AI is not as 
 bad as the editors would have you believe. In fact, while not as good as Halo the AI is extremely 
 effective and you do feel as though you are being hunted by some sinister intelligence. I usually 
 trust Gamespot when they review a game but in this case they are way off base! They should revise 
 their rating to a 9.0.
  
  Thanks.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvin777
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 23, 2004 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The games requirements are too high and has a lot of lag. Compare this to HalfLife 2 which in my 
 opinion has better graphics, and very little lag with out much compramize to the graphics. The 
 game play is very simple, Go around and kill monsters... It would have been better to have more 
 guns, or something. Its just missing something that a really good action game needs. It has nice 
 graphics (if your computer can handle it) but with my ATI Radeon 9200 SE 128mb video card, it lagged 
 like hell. Even on medium, it still had quiet a bit of lag. I didn't even bother with the online 
 play cuz of the lack of guns, gameplay, and lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sireph
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2004 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I first installed this game simply to see if my computer would run Everquest 2 well, but when I 
 installed it; not only was I impressed at how well it ran, but I also fell in love with the bump 
 mapping. After a few hours, I also realized that the gameplay was suspenseful, fun, and addictive. 
 There was not enough of a variation in levels, and not as many monsters as I would have liked, 
 but the game kept a very cool, scary, and futuristic atmosphere throughout (Except for the end, 
 that was just crazy) .
  I liked it that for the most part, the game did'nt go too far over the top in terms of violence, 
 and plot developement.
  The game has been accused of being too short, but if you ask me, its actually pretty long, and 
 it does a good job at spreading out the levels, and demons equally throughout the whole game.
 
  In closing, Doom 3 was a really fun game with extraordinary graphics and purdy bump mapping. If 
 you liked Halo, Silent Hill, or just plain shooters, you will love Doom 3.
  
  
  (Dont forget though, by buying Doom 3 you're just feeding the money stealing machine that is ID.)
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattock5656
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2004 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Doom 1 was one of the first games that I played that was good and scary. As for Doom 3, I was anticpating 
 this game so much, that when I played it, the scare factor didn't even bother me.
  
  Doom 3 is simply amazing, beatng it in about 20 hours, I found myself already done with a game 
 that I have been wanting for a long time. I was kinda disppointed that Im already done; this game 
 was rather short.
  
  The graphics are the best on Pc, with its amazing lighting effects and very detailed textures. 
 I thought the graphics were Top-Of-Line.
  
  Gameplay for Doom 3 is Doom which is fighting all kinds of Imps, demons ect. in close areas. What 
 more can I say? Doom 3 is a game where anyone with a good enough pc should try it and you will 
 be satisfied.
  
  Overall, Amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cps
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 20, 2004 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was quite an important development for Id games. The game set out to take the original formula 
 of Doom, and spice it up to modern day gaming standards, and to create the kind of revolutionary 
 impact to the genre, as the original had. Doom 3, is a good try at that, but unfortunately it is 
 a failure (in that sense) . 
  
  The game is georgeous for one thing, it really makes your jaw drop at the detail, textures and 
 shadows, and its sometimes a real shame to kill so many creatures; who look so good. Doom 3's graphics 
 engine is its glory, the gameplay is bland, the enemies do not seem to react to the bullets in 
 a way you'd expect them to, you know you've made a direct hit by a splurt of blood, but it is no 
 real fun at all; even with a chainsaw (which I was quite excited about) enemies stand there and 
 take whatever you give them. The levels become repetitive quickly as they usually involve getting 
 to point A to point B, pushing a button, and either backtracking, or facing a boss and moving onto 
 the next area. The level designs therefore are quite boring, good to look at, but no depth in design. 
 It is only at the end of the game, where things change slightly (I won't ruin it for you) . The 
 sound is, well I would say it is missing. There is hardly any music, the gun fire becomes annoying, 
 and the monsters have the same screech everytime you meet them. The only interest that I managed 
 to conjure (a highlight in the early levels that actually seemed quite interesting) was travelling 
 with a human (Humans are a rare occurance) through a pitch black industrial site. He has a light 
 and guides you through the darkness, being interrupted now and again to say 'what was that noise' 
 when you hear distant clanking of metal etc.
  
  It was very atmospheric, and quite chilling, but nothing really compared to most games of the same 
 genre, as this sequence was inevitably broken by a burst of action as monsters attack. Having tested 
 the multiplayer, I have to say that it is missing something, all I can sum it up as is; it had 
 potential. Overall Doom 3 will have action nuts having a real rush, but whether that will last 
 or not, is up to the gamer's interest threshold, I would advise you download the demo, even though 
 the game has its moments, you must ask yourself, is it worth the price? I found the game to be 
 enjoyable in places, a georgeous, visual treat (although, now beaten by Half Life 2) , but ultimately, 
 lacking in gameplay and replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redtiger676
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2004 5:56 pm PT
Review:  After a long time coming, id sorfware's "Doom 3" has finally come. Amazing graphics, scary sounds, 
 and darkness make this game make you want to run away screaming and crying.
  Well, maybe not that extreme, but it's very scary. When you least expect it, a demon crawls out 
 of the shadows and starts clawing you. 
  While most of Doom 3's sounds can put a lot of atmosphere into the game, the weapons sound very 
 underpowered. Only a few guns in Doom 3 sound good. The handgun, for example, sounds like somone 
 tapping on a table. It doesn't sound good at all.
  Doom 3 is a great game, with lots of scary moments, so go and try it, I know you will like it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_104
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2004 12:32 am PT
Review:  I must say, I'm rather shocked that my computer can run Doom 3 on some of the higher settings without 
 any hiccups. And it looks incredible. It feels like some kind of interactive, full-motion video.
 
  
  Visually and graphically, I"m not sure what can compare to this. The only other games that can 
 come close are Far Cry, Half-Life 2, and CoR Escape from Butcher Bay. The best thing about each 
 of those games is that each one is great looking, and they all use a different engine. And I do 
 mean different. But, I must say that Doom 3 probably has the best visuals to date. Everything from 
 standard lighting to reflections of materials looks fabulous. Id couldn't have done a better job.
 
  
  The sounds are just as amazing. Just when you thought ambient sounds were just there for a little 
 something extra, Doom 3 pumps up the volume by making them part of the showcase. Enabling a player 
 to hear every little sound made the game that much more eerie.
  
  The gameplay is also fantastic. And although the npc AI is on the stupid side of things, it' still 
 a whole helluva lot of fun to play. C'mon, it' is a remake of an old classic that put fps on the 
 map. You point the gun, and you shoot. It doesn't get any easier than that. There aren't any serious 
 puzzles to solve. And the game's other shortcoming may come in the form of those goofy emails and 
 sound-bytes that you have to put up with just to open certain lockers and doors. That really tends 
 to break the momentum of the game. And one more complaint, the marine is unable to hold a gun and 
 a flashlight at the same time.
  
  As far as its overall value is concerned, Doom 3 is probably one of the most important games of 
 the year. Granted, it's not for the storyline, original gameplay, or wonderfully scripted AI. It's 
 about showing a classic with a facelift. And id has to be one of the greatest plastic surgeons 
 on the planet. I personally can't wait for the Doom 3 expansion coming out in March 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UF_Matt
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 15, 2004 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Easily one of the most anticipated games in quite some time, Doom3 had high expectations. Released 
 about ten years after the previous Doom entry, Doom3 lives up to the graphical expectations, perhaps 
 even surpassing them, but falls short in terms of story.
  
  Test System
  ----------------
  PIV 2.4@3.12ghz
  ASUS P4P800 MB
  XFX 6600GT 128mb
  1gig PC3200 RAM
 
  WinXP Pro
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  --------------------
  The actual gameplay in Doom3 is fairly typical of a modern first person shooter. You have the typical 
 arsenal of weapons. You encounter the typical array of enemies. Typical is the word of choice, 
 which is why Doom3 only gets an 8/10 in this category. There is enough to satisfy old-school gamers, 
 but nothing great or innovative here.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  --------------------
  This is where Doom3 really shines. The graphics in Doom3 are nothing short of innovative. The expectations 
 set have been met and perhaps even surpassed. When you shine a flashlight into a dark corner and 
 see an enemy crawl out of the shadows, you feel fairly immersed. Id has set a new benchmark for 
 visuals and clearly earns a 10/10 in this category.
  
  Sound 7/10
  ----------------
  As with the gameplay, there is nothing here to make the game stand out against its competition. 
 The sounds are fairly typical, neither poor nor exceptional. Since the sound is fairly average, 
 I give this category a 7/10.
  
  Value 7/10
  ---------------
  While some would consider this game worth every penny just for the sake of serving as a benchmark, 
 the lack of a solid multiplayer kills the value. While the single player is adequate in length 
 and the revolutionary visuals stretch out the experience, the poorly designed multiplayer hurts 
 the value of this purchase. In today's market, people simply expect a solid multiplayer element.
 
  
  Tilt 9/10
  ------------
  Having been a fan of Id software since the release of Wolfenstein3D and Doom back in the early 
 90s, I enjoyed the old-school gameplay. The graphics were exceptional and I found myself constantly 
 impressed. For me, the lack of a solid multiplayer prevented me from giving a 10/10, but due to 
 the exceptional single-player, I give it a 9/10.
  
  Overall 8.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skabado
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2004 11:46 pm PT
Review:  flying skulls or like any other person why why it isnt a game i would like to play every day unlike 
 half life 2 half life 2 is a very good game and doom 3 has good graphiks half life 2 strong points 
 are its game play graphics and how long it takes or can take doom 3s strong points are it has good 
 graphics and that all i can think of the bad things for half life 2 is it has alot of freezes and 
 thats all i can see doom 3s bad points are you have to hold a flashlight with no weapon so you 
 have to keep switching and its shadows are crazy they are to to to dark it does look better than 
 doom doom 2 or any other games before it but it is only a 8.0 for my thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neosword
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2004 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is truly a unique game. The story, as in all Doom games, you play as a no name marine and 
 have to battle back the forces of the underworld. The beginning of the game is kind of slow up 
 until your first encounter with zombies and such, but once you get there, there's no turning back. 
 The graphics are great, but these type of graphics are becoming more and more common so who knows 
 how long they will be considered great. The voice acting is good and the words match the characters 
 lips perfectly. Complaints. The game is all dark. It's so dark, you can't see anything without 
 a flashlight and your sense of direction, no matter who you are, disappears. The spaces you are 
 given to fight in are very small which becomes frustrating after you keep dying when you can't 
 side step an opponents attack. The game does a pretty good job of moving you along and stating 
 your objectives clearly, which helps the pace of the game quite a bit. The boss fights are nothing 
 special, but some other things in the game will have you staring with your jaw dropped. The game 
 is fun all the way to its conclusion, which makes it worthy of a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W04
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is not only a lengthy game, but one that also has an aura of unmatched quality. The maps, 
 the detail, the sound -- it all works flawlessy together to produce an impressive adventure from 
 start to finish. Running-and-gunning is a strategy that would be futile, but would also prevent 
 you from appreciating the spectacular world around you. You must work carefully, and deliberately, 
 to avoid being destroyed. The enemies are the best-looking monsters I have seen in a game, and 
 the way they walk/run/yell is truly amazing. The lighting in this game is better than anything 
 seen in HL2 (another great game) . The levels are beautifully put together, and the story is solid 
 (unlike HL2) . My two favorite games of all time at the beginning of this year were probably Doom 
 and HL. Well, after completing both Doom 3 and HL2, I can say with all candor that I had a lot 
 more fun (and memorable) time playing Doom 3. No question. I highly recommend you make it your 
 next purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerberus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2004 9:21 pm PT
Review:  From what I have read, id Software set out to make this one close to the original in all levels 
 except of course on graphics. They did that, but all they created was a game with a lacking story, 
 but a hell of a "run around and shoot everything" game.
  
  Gameplay --- In this day, games have to have depth, something D3 did not have. While the action 
 was great and I was kept on the edge of my seat through a lot of the game, it was because I didn't 
 know what I was going to have to kill next, not because of the great story that was supposed to 
 be there.
  
  Storyline --- As I said, it just wasn't there, but again I am sure id Software did not set out 
 to make a great story, they wanted the guns and blood more.
  
  Graphics --- Great graphics but nothing mind-blowing. While the graphics were great, the only game 
 that has had breakthrough graphics was Half-Life 2, and that was due to the new physics engine 
 they put in it.
  
  Overall it is a great game with a good playtime and it will for sure keep you on the edge of your 
 seat, just don't expect an all around great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radx800pro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2004 10:57 am PT
Review:  The Doom series has always been about run and gun. Now everyone is comparing it to FC and HL2 which 
 is entirely what Doom 3 wasnt trying to achieve.
  
  What it did achieve is exactly what I hoped it would. It stayed with the formula of Doom games 
 while packaging it with an incredible game engine!
  
  Sure, you can tear right through the game at hell speed and be done with it but I've found the 
 game to very enjoyable by taking my time and checking out everything along the way. Even if there 
 is a lot of repetition in design, there's just a bit of difference for the game to get away with 
 it. Look at the Max Payne games! I still enjoyed 2 even though it was a polished 1. Then there's 
 a lot of incredible Level design moments that grabs ahold
  of you.
  
  Then there's the whole flashlight controversy. I tried the addon mods but uninstalled them because 
 it took away the excitement of peering around a corner with the light then quickly switching to 
 your gun. Of course ID knew they could have a light attatched to all guns in the 22nd Century!!! 
 They made it that way for a reason!!!
  
  I'm playing FC and HL2 and both games are incredible but so is Doom 3 for what it tried and did 
 achieve!
  
  The other thing about D3 is how smooth it runs compared to FC and HL2. I have a P4 3.2 with 1 gig 
 RAM and an X800 pro and D3 runs smooth as silk. HL2 has some twitching (which is completly tolerable) 
 and FC even more so. I would have to say HL2 is the better of the 3 while D3 still delivers. When 
 Painkiller came out, Gamespot praised it for it's run and gun style. I don't know why D3 is being 
 knocked for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IonForce
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 2, 2004 1:21 am PT
Review:  This game doom3 is a great game. It has decent gameplay where you walk around in dark and scary 
 corridors, halls, etc. It is also a scary game for you people who like scary games I suggest you get 
 this game right now and let me ask you what are you waiting for?
  
  It has very good graphics best I have ever seen. If you want to see doom3 in its finest I suggest 
 you get a very good graphics card/computer. If you have a cheap computer then you won't see what 
 I am talking about. It has great graphics but not so good gameplay. I got bored of it after 3 days 
 and started getting more bored and more bored. But, I still recommend you trying out the demo if 
 you like it or not your self so don't go about criticizing me or anything. The sound is okay also 
 so I suggest you get 7.1 dolby digital speaker set so you can hear the glory of itself.
  
  This is my opinion don't go by soley depending about my opinion because others think this is a 
 very good game. I believe it got the score it deserved and I think you'll ,too. So go out there and 
 buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2004 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Dropping on the doorstops of your favorite stores August 4th, Doom 3 entered the world of the gamer. 
 A game which had been in production for four years was finally going to be released by the maker 
 id Software by lead man, John Carmack. Throughout the past 4 years, Doom 3 has been shown at different 
 events to build the hype of the next generation of First Person Shooters. But dont be too confused 
 by the number 3 in the name, this is a remake of the original Doom. Not in the sense of the same 
 maps and levels that existed in the original, but the storyline-in a way. What Carmack truly wants 
 you to do is go to a time and place where the first two Doom games never happened and forget about 
 the number 3.
  
  Speculation has been articled throughout many websites across the internet for the past few years 
 chronicling the building and coding of the game, making every game salivate for their own copy 
 to play at home, but was it all that they expected? That depends on what youve read, what you 
 expect, and what kind of gamer you are? In their quest to play this new ultimate FPS, the alpha 
 somehow slipped into the hands of the public after an E3 Convention and Carmack blamed the incident 
 on a worker of the ATI company for this alpha leak. He doesnt actually call it an alpha, because 
 it was just something to show off some of the graphics and nothing more. With this leak, many fans 
 of old and new were able to play through 3 maps and experience for themselves what they thought 
 Doom 3 would be like. Was this a good thing? Carmack says neither yes or no.
  
  Lets get to the setting first. Think the movie Total Recall. A space station located on the planet 
 Mars way into the future around 2145. Imagine scientists having an unlimited amount of money to 
 find new resources from any source and this is what makes up the story/plot of Doom 3. The scientists 
 were simply too arrogant for their own good and Hell breaks loose.
  
  Doom 3 in its entirety is a very dark game. Is this so that the designers could be lazy and not 
 design the levels to the extent they should have? No. Just take out your flashlight and shine it 
 in every corner of the space station and realize that not a detail was left out for this well visualized 
 game. Many people have made small complaints about the amount of darkness, but lets be real 
 for a moment everyone. Is a space station on Mars going to be bright and shiny inside? Is it going 
 to be that way after Hells dominions spawn across the labs and rooms within the establishment? 
 Simply put, No! A mod has been created for a mounted flashlight that stays on nonstop when 
 playingt o be able to see more clearly in the many levels, but I view this as taking away from 
 the atmosphere of this well developed game.
  
  Plainly said, there are very nice graphics in Doom 3 if you have the right system. Who has the 
 right system? No one outside of the buildings of either Nvidia or ATI Graphics Card Corporation. 
 Why you ask? Because to be able to put the graphics at their full extent on Ultra, you would need 
 a Graphics card with over 500 MB of memory and currently, those just cant be found in any retail 
 stores that Ive been in lately. But nonetheless, you dont need a powerful system to make this 
 game look beautiful. Even with minimum specs, on the lowest quality, this game looks polished and 
 very well down to give the average gamer a great, atmospheric experience for their gaming dollar. 
 Many people try to compare graphics of Doom 3 to Far Cry, but you have to admit that they are very 
 different games. Far Cry was made for the beautiful landscapes to be traversed by your Hawaiian 
 shirt wearing ex-mercenary while takes on the mutants of an evil scientist. In Doom, you rarely 
 see any large outdoor areas in Doom. I believe that you only get to see the outside landscape of 
 Mars a few times during the whole game.
  
  The level design in Doom is hands-down, one of the best, any reviewer would have to admit. Throughout 
 the 28 levels of constant mayhem, youll find yourself flashing your flashlight into corners finding 
 new things each pass through a corridor. Although you may be backtracking during some levels, each 
 area always is a new experience to the player with different minions and spawns throughout the 
 areas.
  
  Can you remember all the weapons from the first Doom? Well, if you cant, theyre all in the remake 
 to help refresh you, plus a couple extras. My personal favorite being the chainsaw, but Im just 
 like that and once you finally find it, you may join in my liking. A new weapon called a Soul Cube 
 has been added to the repertoire of weapons, but I wont ruin this weapons use for you as you 
 will get it closer to the end of the game. Weapons and armor are in the game like any other Doom, 
 but these features will be have to be found sometimes with your flashlight because of being located 
 in the shadows.
  
  Along with same weapons, many of the same monsters/villains have come back from the original Doom 
 to be in this 2004 remake including the imps, the pink demon, Hell Knights and many more. All more 
 terrifying than the first time you saw them, probably due to the number of pixels for their design.
 
  
  The difficulty in this game falls in line with the FPSs of its time. With more spawn points and 
 less ammo in the higher difficulties. Plus, in the difficulty, Nightmare, you constantly loss a 
 number of hp per second in every level and are forced to find aid.
  
  Trent Reznor, lead man of Nine Inch Nails, was first signed to head the sound department of Doom 
 3, but due to scheduling conflicts, pay, and other discrepancies, he left and the drummer for NIN 
 took over creating his own sounds and effects for the game. New in Doom 3, instead of a looping 
 song throughout each map, he made sound effects and different types of noises, such as screams, 
 babies crying, and gurgles, heard throughout your speakers/headphones around every corner and behind 
 every door in each level. The level of atmosphere has definitely gone up in this FPS because of 
 the sound making the player feel like theyre actually walking through busted halls of the Mars 
 Space Station.
  
  A new feature added to Doom 3 was in-game cinematic. Was this needed? Not truly but it does help 
 the player feel and experience more the plot added this type of storytelling into the game. Along 
 with cinematic, the introduction of the PDA was made for the player character being able to download 
 emails, video disks, and various other files that will help you along your way through the space 
 station, into Hell, and back out again.
  
  The multiplayer was something that definitely needed work, but id has already told the public that 
 they were focusing on Single Player (SP) because of the pressure that was impressed upon them for 
 the lack of story/plot in Quake 3. The multiplayer only allows for 4 player deathmatches, but mods 
 have already been made to fix this technicality. Id is definitely putting the fun and intensity 
 of multiplayer at the communities digression because theyre letting them decide what they want 
 by letting them create what they want. The community has already started to created mods upon mods 
 for this title since its release last week. And word has it that a patch is coming shortly dealing 
 with some multiplayer problems and also to be released would be the SDK for Doom 3, thus, making 
 it easier for the community to create mods.
  
  There have been many complaints about Doom 3 not living up to the hype of what it was brought out 
 to be, but I believe that a person going through the SP will have a great, intensive, atmospheric, 
 experience because of the creators at id. Complaints of the game have come from all directions 
 because of the lack of multiplayer capabilities, but who wants to compete with Unreal Tournament 
 nowadays for MP? Some other complaints were stated that the game wasnt revolutionary. All I have 
 to say is that they knew it was a remake of the original Doom, so they knew it wouldnt be an original 
 story. They saw the graphic engines screenshot from month to month rating the graphics and still 
 people want to complain, its a First Person Shooter with great atmosphere period.
  
  Will there be a remake of Doom 2 then? Carmack said that they would probably not do another Doom 
 game. Sorry, but someone could always make the mod. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krakerjack
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 27, 2004 11:09 am PT
Review:  The Bloodhound gang has a song lyric that goes She was hotter than the sun, but not as bright. 
 This reminds me of Doom 3. Imagine Doom 3 as a Playmate of the Year. Shes gorgeous, has all the 
 right curves in the right places. She is perfectly symmetrical, the perfect height, the perfect 
 everything. Yet shes dumb as a doorknob. You cant hold a conversation with her, you cant discuss 
 anything with her. You can admire her beauty, but theres no depth to her. This is the problem. 
 All beauty and no brains ensue.
  
  Doom 3 is gorgeous. Let me repeat that, the game is downright gorgeous. John Carmack is a graphics 
 rendering genius. The game is so beautiful; it will keep you in your seat gawking for quite some 
 time. If there were ever a reason to get the latest and greatest video card, this game would be 
 it. The game ensues.
  
  You start off as a nameless marine (again) on some Mars base (again) . You encounter some fellow 
 marines who chat; you encounter some other Marine who tells you where to go. You make it to an 
 underground section of the Mars base and run into some guy whos jibber jabbing about sending some 
 message, yadda yadda, and then the Hell Gate opens and Demons infest the mars baseDom 3 ensues.
 
  
  Now Ill hand it to Id, that the first couple of levels of this game grab your attention. They 
 trick you into thinking that youll eventually come across a team of Marines who survived and then 
 you and your fellow devil dogs will fight the bad monsters to the death. However this never happens 
 and you are left wandering (for about the first 7 missions) from one claustrophobic corridor to 
 another. Repetition ensues.
  
  For about the first three levels I figured the repetitive corridors and opening locked cabinets 
 would stop, but it continued for about ten. Needless to say this angered me deeply. Here was a 
 game that is a prisoner of its own technical achievement. Due to the amazing detail in the levels, 
 you arent really allowed to explore any vast areas, at all. Eventually the game does pick up and 
 the levels do become a bit more creative, but its the same old same old. Find key card, open door. 
 Saving humanity ensues.
  
  If you played Doom, youve played Doom 3, simple as that. There are absolutely no new game play 
 elements within the game. Unless you count the fact that you can walk around blind with a weapon, 
 or with a flashlight and defenseless. Whoever designed this element of the game should be fired. 
 The fact that areas are so dark, yet full of monsters, makes it close to impossible to see what 
 youre shooting at. Yeah you can see the red eyes on some of the demons, or hear the zombies in 
 the distance, which at first creates a sense of terror, but after a while creates a sense of why 
 am I bothering? Why am I bothering ensues.
  
  The weapons in the game are a rehash of the same old weapons in previous Id titles. Pistol, Shotgun, 
 yadda yadda yadda. I was completely distraught at the complete lack of well anything new. Nothing 
 new ensues.
  
  Now so far this may sound like a pretty terrible game, which it is not. Certain points within the 
 game actually had me quite frightened. The amazing dynamic lighting really showcases the graphics 
 engine power and makes the entire world almost photo realistic. This sense of reality draws you 
 in for a while, but eventually too much repetition kills this game. Killing the game ensues.
  
  As you progress through the game there are some memorable moments. Following a scientists with 
 his flashlight providing the only light as you walk down stairs and through corridors is very fun, 
 and scary at the same time. Coming across one of the many  is 
 fun as well. Some cool moments ensue.
  
  Overall the game simply falls flat. While Doom 3 is pretty to look at, and somewhat entertaining; 
 it never keeps you satisfied for a sustained period of time. My disappointment ensues.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionheart2055
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2004 2:37 am PT
Review:  All right. First off I'm not into FPS (first person shooters) that much. But I was a Doom fan since 
 I could remember. My uncle is always playing it and I watched as a young kid. I was into. Ok so 
 the old games didn't have the best graphics in the world. They were more 2.5D. What I mean is the 
 backgrounds and stuff are 3D but the characters, monsters, weapons, trees, any object basically, 
 is 2D. SO 2+3/2=2.5, So we all named it 2.5D. Now onto the review before I start rambling.
  
  Graphics:
  Now I think personally graphics are a big part of a video game. This game's graphics 
 are what can I say... Godly. They are so amazing. When I saw the first screenshot I was amzaed. 
 I didn't know a computer could handle this. Well the engine's use of lighting and shadow effects 
 are amazing. The requirements for this is a bit pricey but as long as you have a 64MB or more card 
 made by Nvidia or ATI it will be fine. THe monsters of the Doom series all return but with a whole 
 new devilish look. The favorites of mine are the "pinky demon" and the Hell Knight. Now the "pinky 
 demon" is now more ferocious and will lunge at you with incredible speed for a monster that size. 
 The Hell Knight will attack you from afar with powerful attacks that have a good splash range. 
 The effects used in the fire and the gas and the attacks from the demons look amazing. 10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  Now gameplay of the Doom series has been basically the same. One main principle. 
 Shoot anything that moves and find a way to get the hell out of there. Well Doom III keeps this 
 principle and adds onto this. Now for you to get the full story you must collect PDAs for security 
 purporses. Some you might find allow access to a new area or a cabinet with a 3 digit lock. Now 
 main weapon you will use the most and will be your best friend would be the close range powerhouse. 
 THe shotgun. It will take zombies from a far distance in one shot (usually) and an imp with one 
 shot at close range in the head. ALso there's a new addition of the flashlight. Many of the rooms 
 in Doom III are very dark. A really dark room might not even be considered dark at all. A really 
 really dark room would be like pitch black. The flashlight you have won't allow you to carry a 
 gun at the same time. But fortunately there's a mod for this. Search for it at the Gamespot Demos/Patches/Mods 
 section. Well the flashlight might frustrate you the most in the gameplay. Also there's a really 
 disappointing multiplayer option. It woul have been better if you could be an imp or a Hell Knight 
 or something. Plus all it is basically is a basic Deathmatch. King of the Hill or Capture the Flag 
 would have been better. Maybe even a Co-op story mode would work too. Maybe there's two marines 
 who survived. Just a thought. That's it. 10/10
  
  Sound:
  In my reviews I don't spend much on the sounds of a game. The same for Doom III. The only problem 
 I have with the sounds are that all the weapons don't sound as powerful as you want them to be. 
 But the good thing is you can hear the monsters. THe developers decided to make the monsters sound 
 eerie and make you look all around you for them. The thrill is awesome. 10/10
  
  Story:
  THe main story of the Doom series is that you're a marine from Earth sent to Mars to investigate 
 the problems going on up there. In Doom III the forces of hell were released. You must find a way 
 to escape the base and stop the forces of hell. Not that easy. You get most of the story from emails 
 on PDAs and audio clips on the PDAs.
  
  Value: THe value of the game is not much. It's basically the fun of killing demons with the amount 
 of weapons you have.
  
  I suggest that you buy this now (assuming you have the required hardware) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2004 7:42 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt Doom3 is a good looking game... and like most good looking things, it lacks substance. 
 So much so, that its actually a very boring game.
  
  Boring weapons, boring level design.... and although you get scared one or twice, towards the end 
 you just get annoyed by the darkness and not being able to see.
  
  Even the whole routine of unexpected monsters becomes predictable. 
  
  If you have a brand 
 new Geforce 6800 series card.... buy it to see what games on this engine will look like. Otherwise 
 its a weak game that I finished in less than 2 days and will never ever touch gain.
  
  If you must play this game, do so after you have played the good FPS like farcry, halflife2
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: target11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 22, 2004 9:27 am PT
Review:  This is a great game and it scared the crap out of me, you cant turn a corner without worrying 
 about a zombie or demon jumping out on you and hacking you to bits.
  The graphics for this game were excelent and the lighting was great. every level was well made 
 and looked great they even made a graphics card especially for the game.
  The gameplay for this game was great but you couldnt play this game for too long without turning 
 off your PC because youve craped your pants over a zombie munching your face off.
  Over all i think that this game is a definate buy because it is a great value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roachmonster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:48 pm PT
Review:  My friend said a lot about this game: "Its so cool" , "Its gonna e better than Half-Life 2". You 
 will AAAAHHHHH at its amazing graphics, that applies to all, but you will moan at the gameplay 
 (to some, not all) . To me the game is all bark but no bite but its my opinion, to some it may be 
 fast. I have played Half life 2 and find it much more enjoyable, the graphic in my opinion come 
 in equal to Doom 3. But im only saying this because doom 3 is in the dark most of the time to exagerate 
 (if i misspelled that... my bad) it lighting and shadows (which i consider a cheap easy graphics 
 win) . Looking at the gameplay now, very slow, i mean look at it the main character he cant go faster 
 than a fast walk (which would be reasonable from his stand point because im sure he dosent want 
 to be running in to a chainsaw and have his face reshaped) but still. I would type a lot more but 
 i dont like to. So im gonna leave with this..... If you like slow walk around a buetifully lit 
 world killing already dead hell monsters you would like this, but if you like fast paced run and 
 open fire game go Half-Life 2. 
  
  P. S. (last thing for real) dont listen or be involved with this panzy, little girl fighting over 
 whos better out of Halo 2, Half-Life 2, or Doom 3 because this is all opinions and taste so play 
 the game u want pending on what you read or played so if you like all, by all means get'em all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbx69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2004 2:57 am PT
Review:  i was so hyped when doom3 was anounced back in 2000 i was 10 yea old i remeber doom2 on the super 
 nintendo and pc i loved this game i thought the game was going to come out about probly 2 years 
 but i was wrong the game came out on august 3rd 2004 and now im 14 and i went over circuit city 
 and baught the game and i had to wait to play it beacuse my bro was also shoping at circuit city. 
 i got home installed the game and boom what a blast good grapchics and the game barley lags with 
 my ati radeon and 3.0 ghz p4..1gb of ram and 4.1 speakers (yeah i know 7.1 are better) and soundblaster 
 audigy 2 i was playing the game very decent and i have to say that this game needs a better score 
 dont get why it had a 8.5 by most of the companies oh well.... i recommend this game if you have 
 a pc well enough to run this later.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdark944
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2004 5:13 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: the gameplay is mostly about advancing slowly through the corridors, hearing around you 
 to see if a zombie is about to rip your head off. In the first part of the game it's all about 
 switching between the flashlight and your gun while hearing everything around you with your 5.1 
 surround system. When a monster pops out.. let the action begin!!! At this time you'll be back to 
 the old run-and-gun times. In the second part of the game... the ----spoilers ---- soul cube will 
 be in your hands and will and a new dimension to the game. Everytime you kill 5 demons, the soul 
 cube will call for you to use it. Simply throw it at a monster ( anyone) which will be killed instantly 
 and will give all of his health. You will need to managed it efficiently so you can get an easy 
 kill on a hellknight.
  
  GRAPHICS: well what to say.. this is top-notch. The characters, the shadows&lightning, the textures, 
 the bump-mapping. And with that all, it's well optimized. The game looks pretty even on a GeForce 
 4 MX. Even with a medium computer you can get pretty good framerates.
  
  SOUND: wonderful with a good surround system. The atmosphere is so tense.. especially because of 
 the sound. Just to tell you how good the sound is.. it's better to the game than the graphics are.
 
  
  VALUE : the game lasts a good 20-25 hours easily. Never boring. Pretty linear but still interesting. 
 Even if it's all that scripted, I had fun doing it back a second time especially that the nightmare 
 difficulty is demanding.
  
  ------------  HIGHS: :) Great graphics, well optimized.
  :) Excellent surround sound
  :) Great atmosphere, very nervous
  :) Solid action
  :) Lasts 
 a good 25 hours 
  ------------  LOWS: : ( Gameplay could've been more evoluated
  : ( A bit linear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t0v3
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 20, 2004 6:44 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and sweet.
  
  Basically once you get over the initial beauty of the graphics and get stuck into the actual gameplay, 
 you will more than likely be dissapointed with the end result. It starts of promising enough, but 
 soon you begin to realize the entire game consists of basically the same forumla, and has little 
 substance to it. It gets repeatative and dull within an hour, and the so called "scare" moments 
 are notthing more than embarassing attempts to make you jump out of your seat. It may very well 
 work for those who don't watch many horror movies or haven't played any Resident Evil or Silent 
 hill, but my guess is even those people would soon get tired of having enemys jump out at them 
 after the first few times.
  
  Overall I didn't care much for the game, it bored me and felt like an average "been there done 
 it" shooter, with fancy graphics. The story was uninspired and didn't keep me instrested. On the 
 plus side we do get a lovely new engine out of the game which will hopefully be used in future 
 games which actually have good gameplay.
  
  I'm dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrialRevluc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2004 11:17 am PT
Review:  Doom3 a highly anticipated sequel to the Doom series is dark and appealing to this gamer and to 
 other gamers I have chatted with in recent days. During product testing "PC Gamer" gave Doom3 the 
 seal of approval. That was enough for this gamer to have a piqued interest. Our near and dear community 
 at "Gamespot" also gave this game a splendid review and so it was with that endorsement that I 
 purchased the third in the series.
  
  Graphically appealing with a fantastic 3D engine, Doom3 stuns the senses. You have to turn out 
 the lights and turn up the speakers to get the full effect of the Doom3 experience. Though I do 
 not have my computer connected to a surround sound system the audibles are fantastic. Turn left 
 to hear the gasses escaping from pipes then when you turn around you get a totally different audio 
 experience and the escaping gas is behind you.
  
  Bravo to id Software! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertigofm_basic
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 20, 2004 1:55 am PT
Review:  To be honest, there isn't much to this game. What it has in graphics it lacks in gameplay. The 
 gameplay isn't quite solid- if you want an oldschool run N' gun game, go with Painkiller. If you 
 want a smart run n' gun, go with half life. But this seems to fall in between, It is initially 
 a fun game, but near the end you will not want to play it anymore. It is intense, a bit creepy, 
 and action packed.... but that's all it has, action. In my opinion, don't get this game unless 
 you are a serious Doom 3 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 13, 2005 7:49 am PT
Review:  Finally after waiting for 3 long years just to play it, it's finally here! Doom 3 has it everything 
 you want in an action/horror game: intense action, chilling atmospheric horror, responsive controls, 
 and incredible graphics engine. The story basically starts in a space station on Mars and it's 
 the first day on the job. Like always you're a space marine but not like the super powerful tough 
 guy Master Chief, he's just your average "Joe" who happens to be a whiz in firearms or in other 
 words guns! One of the residents gives you a PDA which tells you your missions, answer E-Mails, 
 and access to other areas. Once you've met the commandor of the facility and gives you a mission 
 than that's when the brief tour in Mars finally comes to a hault and you gear up on your first 
 mission. However your first day on duty might your last because once the mission is completed all 
 "hell" breaks loose............ litterly! Everyone except you are posessed and are attacking you 
 at all corners. And if you made it past your posessed comrades then prepare for the freaky part 
 because what happens next gives you a tiny idea of what will happen afterwords. Disturbing bloody 
 sentences will decerate the walls, corpes will litter the hallways, and the rooms will be filled 
 with evil voices here and there. Plus the hallucanations will scare the bejesus out of you. One 
 hallucanation reveals your character looking himself in the mirror until he sees himself as a horrible 
 demon. This graphic description of freakiness turns to sheer terror as Doom 3's more menacing side 
 finally reveal themselves armed with claws, teeth, and demonic abilities. Fortunently for you, 
 you continue to gain access to bigger and badder weapons to fight the demonic forces because there 
 are some demons who are even deadlier than a hell knight or a pinky demon. Yes Doom 3 is one of 
 the best games out with a few minor flaws.
  
  Gameplay: Smart, responsive, and fairly easy to handle. The intensity often results to a frantic 
 panic attack as the monsters attack from the shadows coming at you like a mad bull.
  Score: 10 out of 10
  
  Graphics: Atmospheric but the extremely dark corridors makes it hard 
 to get around. Awesome animation though.
  Score: 8 out of 10
  
  Sound: Chilling music, monster noises, and even the evil voices that appear out of nowhere can 
 send chills down your spine until someone rips it out.
  Score: 10 out of 10
  
  Value: Sweet ending, but the darkness makes it really hard to get around, fun multiplayer but I 
 wish they add more players.
  Value: 8 out of 10
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Doom 3 raises the bar in first person shooters. It is the most fun I've played 
 since Quake 2! But if you can't handle the darkness then there's always cheat codes.
  Score: 9 out of 10
  
  Overall Score: 9.7 
  
  Pros: Dark chilling graphics, terrifying sound 
 effects, tight control, immersive storyline,
  great for all nighters.
  
  Downfalls: Too dark and hard to get around, not enough players in deathmatch.
  
  The Word: 
 id Software has once again "struck gold" with this near perfect first person shooter!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 18, 2004 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Well the only good thing about this game are the graphics. This game is very hard and mostly dark 
 all the way through. You cant have a flashlight at the same time as you hold a gun which is really 
 bad because the time you get your gun out your dead. This game has been very disappointing but 
 at least i can say it was better than doom 1. The game also needs a really good computer so if 
 you are a person who still has a bad graphics card you should not get this game unless you want 
 it jerking every second. This game is very hard only because its too dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owenneil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2004 8:41 am PT
Review:  graphics and sound aside well not the pick up and gun sounds but the rest manage to make you jump 
 and do what there supost to in setting the feel. i just couldnt get into the so called story. it 
 didnt hold me enuff to have me even want to finish. after a wile it was just go here stuff jumps 
 out kill it move on over and over. nothing ground taking or eveen that fun for me. was like look 
 some ammo and a gun let me guess i pick and up and some how the wall opens like a door and there 
 is some beast behind it and suprize (not really) something comes out. and the online stuff isnt 
 that good with any body with a shot gun can kill you one shot but a rocket to your face doesnt? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marvin_Snipes
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 17, 2004 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, the graphics are brilliant. When you first set foot inside the base you instinctively 
 spend ten minutes or so in awe at whats been achieved with the lighting, shadowing and so forth. 
 However, there are only so many corridors you can walk down before feeling a sense of dj vu, 
 and its at these moments the game starts to feel somewhat uninspired. However, the array of fantastic 
 looking monsters make the prior point less of an issue than it otherwise would have been. The imps 
 and hell knights, as well as arch viles and the various bosses you encounter truly feel like theyve 
 been cast from the pits of hell. However the cacodemons in particular seem more comical and demonic, 
 and could have been more interesting.
  The storyline is serviceable, giving as good a reason as any to attack the minions of hell, but 
 little else.
  The overall atmosphere of the game is excellent, especially towards the end of the game, as rocks 
 start to crash and fall around you and the screams of the victims of hells forces overwhelm you, 
 or when a zombie engulfed in flame charges at you. However, it does get tiring have the same sequence 
 of events happen time and time again, grab some health and imps will spawn, enter a room and confront 
 an imp and be attacked from behind by another imp thats just spawned behind you. This predictability 
 doesnt necessarily hamper the game experience all to much, but Id liked to have seen a bit more 
 cunning from hells forces. 
  
  Doom 3 could have been more, and perhaps should have been, but taken as it is, the game is still 
 brilliant.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigges
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2004 3:22 pm PT
Review:  She looks beautiful, she has very smooth skin that shimmers in the light but she has no personality. 
 Yes!, I'm describing your dream date but Doom 3 isn't so dreamy. I guess I just felt bored playing 
 doom 3. It looks great, and for graphics alone it is worth playing it, but graphics alone won't 
 keep you going through the whole game, and the game itself doesn't really show off the graphics 
 that is eating up your processor because the lights are off and everyone who is home is behind 
 you!!!
  This game comes into the next generation due to its graphics but the gameplay is living in the 
 past. The times when monsters run mindlessly towards you ended after Quake 2 and the arrival of 
 Half-Life made people realize there is more to AI that just kill and be killed (we can hide, we 
 can take cover we can work as a team) 
  Not to worry though, Half-Life 2 is here and its getting some sweet reviews. I want to play it 
 myself before I say anything about it, but Half-Life has always had something that doom doesn't 
 have... a beautiful personality (could be your next dream date)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizeguy525
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 16, 2004 12:26 am PT
Review:  I bought this game when it was first released, I pre-ordered it and everything. WAited the EONS 
 it seemed for it be go gold and finally be released, but in the end it was not nearly cracked up 
 to what I thought it would be. I had just finished playing Far Cry, which blew my expectations 
 away, I couldn't stop playing that game until i beat it, which I finally did a few days into the 
 game. Unfortunately Far Cry plus the hype for Doom 3 set my expectations too high and I was terribly 
 dissappointed in Doom 3. The only plus is of course the graphics, which are argueably the best 
 graphics in a FPS as of right now. But we all know if the gameplay isn't up to par, and who can 
 forget Multiplayer? If you want a great multiplayer game CoD is the best right now, Doom 3's engine 
 is what has potential, the game itself is a dissappoint ment to say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jansolo
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 15, 2004 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I tried to like this game - I really did. There was so much hype surrounding it, I figured that 
 most of it should hopefully be true. Unfortunately, due to the release of Far Cry, the visual impact 
 of Doom 3 just wasn't there. Sure it looked pretty, but Far Cry also looked pretty and had better 
 environments, better AI, better.. you get the picture. So what we are left with at the end of the 
 day is game play, and there is where Doom 3 ultimately let me down. Doom 3 is a long, arduous, 
 boring journey filled with reading emails, listening to audio recordings from dead people all so 
 you can open up lockers, get items and continue on with the mission. It's supposed to be a different 
 way of getting to places and it means you don't have to find a key to open a door. I can't believe 
 I am saying this, but I prefer finding the key over listening to some uninspired audio recording 
 from a bad voice actor. But, we should move on to the game play. Game play in Doom 3 is slow (meaning 
 you walk around and every now and then, a predictable placement of a monster comes at you) and 
 blind (the game environment is overly dark and you have to switch from a flash light to a gun rather 
 quickly) . Does this equal a fun time? Definitely not. Does this mean that you should blow 500$ 
 on a video card and another 50$ on this? I can say resoundingly NO. Skip Doom 3. Get Half Life 
 2. Don't waste time, money and calories on this worthless game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysonius
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 15, 2004 5:44 am PT
Review:  There's no doubt that John Carmack is one of the most brilliant software designers in the world; 
 he's proved that by raising the technical bar with every game that id has released. However, it's 
 also true that when it comes to an immersive, imaginative single player experience, id's been in 
 second place for some time. First by Unreal, then Half-Life, and now by Half-Life 2. You can go 
 on all you like about the technical milestone that is Doom 3, and I'll agree with every word; the 
 fact that even a three-year old machine with a new video card can run it at an acceptable speed 
 and still get great graphics says more about his ability than any words of mine. But, if you want 
 to run at full tilt through the landscape, blasting everything that moves, get Painkiller. If you 
 want something with depth and real characters, get Half Life 2. Personally, I'm looking forward 
 to the future games that will be built with the id's engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EGelGel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2004 1:39 am PT
Review:  The Doom 3 engine is definately a wonderful piece of artwork, and the game is very old-school, 
 and almost always a thrill. There are some points however that it is hard to find a lot of motivation 
 to continue. This is all generally in about the middle of the game. By the end of the game, you 
 wont be able to stop playing until you are done. The graphics are phenomenal, and definitely the 
 best yet on anything ever. However, I believe other engines such as the source engine and the cryengine 
 are more versatile, but it will be very interesting to see what modders will do with this game. 
 Now let's move onto multiplayer, I HATE lag, and this game is full of it, even on a T-1 connection 
 I dont get very good framerates in multiplayer, and the game is very simple, and same-old same-old 
 type gameplay, so this game is one for the single-player fan, and not someone looking for an amazing 
 multi-player experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 12, 2004 7:59 am PT
Review:  If there was ever a game that didn't live up to its hype, this would be it.
  
  Great graphics, but too bad Id was too uninspired to actually do anything interesting with it. 
 The gameplay will have you walking through a bunch of boring levels that look pretty much the same 
 (if you can see them) .
  
  Don't listen to all the excuses people make for this game, like "it's oldschool", or "not being 
 able to hold a gun while holding your flashlight adds to the feel", etc, etc. I've heard them all. 
 If it didn't have the name "Doom" attatched to it, or the graphics engine to boot, this would've 
 slipped past the radar with all the other mediocre FPS games that make it to the PC every year.
 
  
  FPS is my favorite genre, but I've been spoiled by so many great titles, that when I see a game 
 like this, I can look past the exterior to see what's truly there. In this case, it's just a standard, 
 run of the mill game, not worth playing... but worth seeing (if you can, but you may need a bigger 
 flash light) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogthershod
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2004 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Although most of the excitement surrounding the game was in an anticipation of a brand new, revolutionizing-the-genre 
 game, Doom 3 actually lives up to the complete opposite of the spectrum.
  
  Doom 3 is a throwback to its previous gameplay style of the shooters from the mid 90s. Although 
 at the beginning of the game, Doom 3 pretends to surround you in an epic story, but you will quickly 
 come to terms that story is not what the game is about. Simply put, the elements surrounding the 
 game follow the strict path of kill everything that moves. It is balanced out with certain puzzles 
 here and there, but they are not as numerous as one would hope, sometimes causing the game to get 
 repetitive. However, the nature of the game as a whole is actually quite addictive. 
  
  One can easily be immersed in the game and complete it in a relatively short period of days even 
 though the missions are just at the average length. The multiplayer is a bit lacking- having only 
 four people allowed per room (but Doom 3 fully supports mods) .
  
  The graphics are simply the best to date on any FPS game and the dark nature of it adds to the 
 suspense. The dark atmosphere of the game tends to give this game an advantage compared to the 
 other run and gun games, making the superb lighting technology play a role in the actual gameplay. 
 Monsters will emerge from shadows, and will sometimes lead you to fire into the dark out of fear 
 that there could be something inside. The flashlight adds the defining twist that sets apart Doom 
 3 from the others The sound is also amazing as each little quiet detail can be heard through impressive 
 5.1 technology, further leading to a truly amazing presentation.
  
  Overall, Doom 3 is not the revolutionary first person shooter some people have led to believe, 
 but it certainly is very fun once you are in the midst of the game and will certainly pull you 
 in with its amazing graphic atmosphere.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocheambeau
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 11, 2004 12:47 am PT
Review:  5+ years in the making, Doom 3 is easily one of the most highly-anticipated games in recent memory. 
 For the last 3 years, its area at E3 was a dark area of secrets and vague hints about this truly 
 awesome creation that was about to be bestowed on us, the undeserving gaming public. Even the cost 
 at release was about 10 bucks over other games, just because it was Doom 3 and it was THAT GOOD. 
 
  
  When my copy finally arrived, i installed it immediately and booted it up with baited breath, waiting 
 for my brain to be blown right out of my ears by its amazing amazingness. 
  Instead i discovered that i'd just blown 55 bucks of valuable drinking money on a game that's the 
 interactive equivalent of a graphics demo you get for free with a new video card. 
  
  I always like to start with the positive aspects, 'cause it makes me sound less jaded than i am, 
 so here it is (notice the singular "it") : Doom 3 looks pretty spiffy when the lights are on. End 
 of the positives.
  
  For the sake of brevity and to maintain what's left of my sanity, i'll only point out the major 
 flaws and leave all the minor ones to your imagination. Ready?
  
  One: the game is completely uninspired and patently ridiculous. Remember all the basic guns that 
 every first person shooter you've ever played has? Doom 3's guns are exactly the same as those, 
 except with really cheezy, awful sound effects and an effective range of about 15 feet. And you're 
 only allowed to shoot them in the dark. Why? Because apparently the main character has only one 
 arm and can't point a pistol with one hand and hold a flashlight with the other. No, I'm not kidding. 
 Why not mount the light on the gun? Apparently in the future they've lost the amazing technology 
 of light mounts on guns (which are standard for all special ops weapons. Seriously. Ask any member 
 of a SWAT team or other CQB specialist.) and there is absolutely NO duct tape or similar adhesive 
 material on Mars. DON'T QUESTION IT! Haven't you ever heard of suspension of disbelief? And this 
 is a futuristic base on MARS! Adequate room lighting is a strict no-no on mars! 
  
  Two: The enemy A. I. is based on angry sheep (or possibly cabbages) . All they do is charge you, 
 with no thought for... well, anything really. These demons don't have enough intelligence to effectively 
 combat a kindergartner, let alone a one-armed marine with crappy guns. The battles are usually 
 one on one anyway. Apparently the scheduled invasion of mars by the hordes of hell couldn't quite 
 muster up the horde to do it. Looks like they could only get a couple of dozen, so they're spread 
 out pretty thin to strike as much terror as is possible for enraged moron demons. Oh, and don't 
 get me started on the zombies. Shambling zombies of overweight office employees somehow fail to 
 strike fear into the hearts of men. Even if they are MARS zombies. From hell! Really! ... Sigh.
 
  
  Three: The storyline. I'd like to be less vague, but everything about it is just so awful. Most 
 of it is told through text, video and recorded audio that the player finds in various PDAs lying 
 all over the base (PDAs are very, very popular in the future. Well, at least the future on MARS!) . 
 By hitting Tab, you bring up your PDA and you can read all the various spooky messages and listen 
 to the harrowing tales of inter-office bickering and beaurocratic stupidity, with the occasional 
 hint of storyline thrown in just for kicks. Yes, it is as awkward and boring as it sounds. You 
 do occasionally get codes to open locked cabinets all over the base, but there's rarely any need 
 to open said cabinets, so... Look! Its everybody's favorite gameplay mechanic: Pointless! All this 
 aside, the storyline is obvious and a completely throw-away part of the game. Which is not that 
 surprising for a FPS, but for some reason Doom 3 decided to focus more on atmosphere and story 
 rather than fun gameplay (i. e. blowing stuff up) so if you throw away the story all you're left 
 with is the...
  
  Four: Atmosphere. Imagine developers, artists, modelers and designers scrabbling away madly in 
 their toy covered cubicles ('cause that's what i'd have in my cube if i was them) trying to create 
 a realistic, detailed and above all awesome looking environment. They spend years working, building, 
 lovingly molding their creation into a work of art. Finally, it's done, and it looks great. They 
 place it in the game, get everything working great, enjoy one last look at it, and then turn the 
 lights out. Welcome to Doom 3! Dark does not equal scary, nor does it make for "atmosphere". It 
 does make for crappy gameplay and feverish nights lying awake imagining how much time was wasted 
 on the texturing and modeling of the levels. 
  
  So much for brevity, but i have to stop before the sheer irritation gives me a stroke. And that's 
 not even half of the MAJOR issues with Doom 3. I didn't even get to the incredibly short playtime 
 (10 hours is a generous estimate) , poor level design or the obnoxious NPCs and load times. Doom 
 3 is simply not worth wasting your time or money on. Wait for a good developer to license the engine 
 and get that instead. ID has once again proven that they can make a killer engine, but can't design 
 a game that lives up to what the engine promises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magoga
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 9, 2004 3:14 am PT
Review:  This game has been in development for years and I was pretty exited about it from the very beggining. 
 You start out as a nameless marine that is sent to mars to a research facility. There have been 
 many strange things going on there and your job is to investigate. Early in the game all hell let's 
 loose as most of the facility's inhabitants are turned into zombies. From here the game is pretty 
 much a conventional staright forward first person shooter that focuses on blasting zombies and 
 demons that pop out of dark corners. The gameplay becomes pretty repetitive too quickly, but the 
 game makes up for it with it's amazing graphics, scary enviroments, and amazing sound. The game 
 has some minor issues like the flashlight switching (there are multiple mods to fix this problem) 
 and of course you need a high end machine to properly play this game. I have a 2.6 GHZ processor, 
 NVidia 5600 Ultra 128 mb, and 512 mb of RAM. My PC isnt's the greates anymore but is still pretty 
 nice and on medium settings, It gets a little too choppy. I haven't really tried the Doom 3 multiplayer 
 yet but heard it isn't that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-Dogg
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 7, 2004 8:51 am PT
Review:  To say that Doom 3 is the best looking First Person Shooter is a major over statement. The biggest 
 over statement ever. The atmosphere and theme are great. It does a good job of capturing the old 
 school Doom feel. However, that simply isn't enough.
  
  The graphics are very good, granted. I didn't feel they where the best I have ever seen. Especially 
 after playing Far Cry. Heck, that even came out before Doom 3 and on time. I also felt the game 
 was a bit buggy, but what PC game now isn't? The sound effects and music were good, as well.
  
  Another bad point was the lack of a decent story and the near non-existent enemy AI. I didn't 
 feel challenged at all playing this game. Graphics alone are not enough to carry a game, no matter 
 what genre it is. There has to be a reason to keep playing other than looking at a pretty picture 
 and I don't think ID software understands that. It feels like you are playing the first Doom with 
 modern graphics. I liked Doom and Doom 2 as much as the next gamer, but at this point in time a 
 game has to have the total package. Doom 3 does not deliver that. You are better off getting Far 
 Cry, it beats Doom 3 in every way. I'm just glad I didn't waste my money on Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo-wassup
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 6, 2004 7:00 am PT
Review:  This game was a total letdown imo, i have yet to complete the game but i am starting to feel bored 
 with this game already. it's just becomes soo repetitive that i want to un install this game. id 
 software for the first time made a piss poor game. On the other hand the game's graphics are surreal 
 and if you have a 6800 card and 5:1 speakers then prepared to be scared to death. I myself have 
 been totally scared. I hope the expansion pack is different. Already i have stopped playing this 
 game, soo much hype and anticipation and the result is totally a big letdown. id software should 
 have not made it a re make \, that the main problem this game flopped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelcowsm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2004 5:00 am PT
Review:  I can't describe how great this game is, everything from the opening sequence to the end of the 
 game. When you first turn it on there is a awesome loading scene then you get to a very crafty 
 menu. Something else you notice is how they set you up from the start to be scared with little 
 pictures and noises. Once you start actually playing you can't help but notice how great the graphics 
 are, they look so real you almost faint. This game is also very scary mostly because of the demented 
 monseters and dark buildings. Some people might not be able to handle this because it is REALLY 
 scary. Not only are the sorroundings cool but the weapons are awesome as well. They all have cool 
 sounds that are unique just for them. You can pick up better weapons along the way which adds some 
 depth into the game. This game is great for anybody looking for a scare and is the best game in 
 the series so far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denisefr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 1, 2004 12:56 am PT
Review:  I'm probably being a bit ambitious reviewing a game I'm still to finish. All that's left is to 
 destroy the hellgate though, so I'll go ahead anyway.
  
  Doom 3 - what more needs to be said really? Well lots. Does it live up to the hype? No. Is it everything 
 that was promised? Yes. Is it perfect? No.
  
  The experience is amazing - near flawless graphics, creepy sound and monsters that have to be seen 
 to be believed. But. And there is a but. My experience of Doom 3 was flawed by buggy gameplay. 
 The game froze on me several times forcing me to kill the process and start again. I know what 
 you're thinking - its that crappy low end machine you're using woman! Wrong again. P4 3.0G, 1Gb 
 RAM and a 256MB Radeon 9600XT. I know the card's pushing it but I left the default graphic settings 
 just in case. 
  
  Apart from that little niggly thing (and yes I did apply the 1.1 patch - this helped a little) 
 its been a trip. Before playing I was a sceptic - no way would a mere game scare me - how wrong 
 can you be. It dead (excuse the pun) creepy. Hearing things rustling up behind you, having things 
 jump at you and mere sight of a Hell Knight is enough to give you the heebie jeebies I can tell 
 you.
  
  If you're teetering on the will I/won't I - push yourself over and give it a whirl. Its worth the 
 effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehTerlo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 29, 2004 2:07 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a great game and all. It's just the fact that the hardware requirements are way too big. 
 I mean literally. Even with today's high end graphics cards (this includes the Nvidia 6800, 6800GT, 
 6800ultra, ATi x800Pro, X800 XT, X800 XT Platinum Edition) the game is still choppy when you put 
 the game on ultra settings. Now I know this game was supposedly "Developed" for 512MB Graphics 
 Cards. Now people, the graphics in this game would stun anyone. They are beautiful. However, the 
 Doom storyline isn't all that great. Killing zombie after zombie after zombie, it's basically a 
 Rehash of the game that took a brand new paint job on. The Gameplay is the standard generic FPS 
 type. The game is also really dark, and you need to toggle between your flashlight and stuff. Of 
 course, mods for this game are fun, which tilts up my score a little bit. In the end, with a price 
 tag of $54.99 the game just is not worth the value of it. And this is the price for just the game. 
 Most of you folks will have to upgrade your computer if you want optimum playing performance, otherwise 
 you are going to be stuck on low. Doom 3 is more of a benchmark to games then anything else. If 
 you are a fan of First Person Shooters and would like to own a crazy title like Doom, and aren't 
 afraid of the dark so easy and have a computer that is pretty up to date, by all means check Doom 
 3 out, but if you don't. I highly suggest that you let this game slip, as it's not worth the money. 
 The Popular Counter Strike: Source is a much better deal, and is way more flexible. The Single 
 Player part of the game is also very repetitive, and can get boring at times. 
  
  In the end i have to break down the following score: 8.8 - a great game, but just not what i saw 
 in it. 
  
  Review By:
  Teh Terlo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davideric1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2004 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10
  The graphics on this game are as bleeding edge as you can get! The lighting and textures in the 
 game are a sight to behold. All the eye candy comes at a price though..... you have to have the 
 hardware to handle it. The minimum system requirements are as follows:64MB video card, P4 1.5 GHZ 
 or Athlon XP 1500+ processor, 384 MB ram, 2.2 GB!!! of hard drive space, and DirectX 9b.
  
  Sound: 10
  The sound is equally impressive! The sound is so realistic that you wonder if you 
 are playing a movie instead of a game! The sound helps to scare the crap out of you along with 
 the graphics. Let me put it this way if you have 4.1 or 5.1 speakers the sound comes from behind 
 you and all around. You are frantically trying to figure out where the sound is coming from!
  
  Story: 8
  The story is the low point in the game. It is somewhat generic. You are a marine 
 on a colony on Mars and all hell breaks loose! That does not mean the game is not immersive, you 
 are to busy trying to save your ass to care about the story to much.
  
  Replayability: 8
  The game ships with Deathmatch levels among others, but the single player game is the games strong 
 point. That is what id had planned when they were making this game, an immersive single-player 
 experiance. That is what you get believe me! I think there will most likely be mods for this game. 
 Then the rating I gave would definitely be higher.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: 9
  As you can tell I really like this game. I like it more than Far Cry. I have been waiting for four 
 freaking long years for this game! Is the game worth the wait? Hell yes!!! If you like FPS it is 
 a must buy!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadows_Engage
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 26, 2004 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by stating the following: I have played
  and owned both Doom and Doom II. With that out in the
  open, I would like to bring your attention 
 to the
  latest release from id software, the highly
  anticipated Doom 3.
  
  Little has changed since id's initial incarnation
  dating back to the early 90's. Although the 
 game
  features enough graphical eye candy to satisfy Sally
  Struthers, there is little else this title has too
  offer. Predictable AI, a so-so storyline, 
 and numerous
  other let downs prevent this title from snagging the
  spotlight away from the likes of Half Life 2. 
  
  Now what the game lacks in gameplay, it more 
 then
  makes up for in ambiance and graphical detail. I can
  honestly state that the feeling of being trapt becomes
  evident almost immediately. 
  
  The 
 moment things take a turn for the worse at the
  Mars Station you call home; a claustrophobic feeling
  consumes you: the walls get smaller, monsters 
 become
  more and more numerous, and for some strange reason
  your gun won't work with the flashlight on. You would
  think that in the future, marines would 
 be able to
  fire with a little mood light going at the same time.
  
  Another problem with the futuristic space station is
  the gross number of rooms housing nothing 
 more then
  monsters. Seriously, it's almost as if the monsters
  have been living there and you interrupted their
  reading sessions with a face full of lead.
 
  
  Despite it's flaws in AI and a depressing amount of
  gameplay, (can you say "shoot... move... shoot again...")
  the game still manages to maintain some 
 playability.
  There were several moments where I wasn't sure what
  would happen next. 
  
  If you're looking for the next-gen Goldeneye, keep
  looking. But if you're willing to accept 
 it's flaws
  and simply roll with it; shooting mindlessly at Hell's
  demons has it's rewards. If you're considering buying
  this title, I would say it's a good investment. 
 At the
  very least; you can see how well your system can
  handle DirectX 9c for future games such as Half Life
  2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom3kjc
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 26, 2004 1:03 am PT
Review:  Doom 3... the most phenominal looking game on the planet... is positively one of the best games around. 
 No matter how many times it's been played or even viewed, it's also one of the most terrifying. 
 Not only is it heart-pounding with it's eerie-lighted settings, it will scare you every time you 
 play. Even if youv'e memorized where every single zombie is, to that little Mixom logo on the right 
 entrance wall to the kitchen, you will still be even moderately freaked out.
  
  Walking around hallways and rooms knowing that monsters and zombies are coming for you is pretty 
 spooky considering most parts of the game are dark. The sound effects can really get to you... it's 
 very heart-pounding when you can hear something breathing heavily and it's too dark to see what 
 it might be that wants you.
  
  The only two flaws in Doom 3 were kind of annoying, since they possibly could of been avoided in 
 making the game. Number one is the flashlight issue... switching from flashlight to gun, flashlight, 
 gun, can be very annoying when it comes to being in a dark room with many monsters. The only other 
 flaw is the sound... not the quality of it, but the repetitveness of the guns firing every time 
 you find a monster. I like the shotgun, but when it came down to hearing so many shots and pumps 
 from it, it does get a bit annoying.
  
  Other than those two, Doom 3 was well worth the years we have been waiting for it to release, and 
 it has become one of the most well known games ever. It's just that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayit
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 24, 2004 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a great shooter, but somewhat short on story. This game is graphically excellent, even 
 slowing down my system in spots, and I'm running a Radeon 9800 Pro and 2.7G CPU at a 900 FSB with 
 a Gig of DDR 500 memory! There is a lot of emotional tension as monsters jump out at you unexpectedly! 
 The enviornment is very reminiscent of the "Aliens" movies. If you are into a little "fright" this 
 game is for you. The action is excellent and the variety of guns very good. It does get repetative 
 entering another room and shooting the seemingly never ending hoard of monsters, but Hey, that's 
 a shooter for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ULTIMA-Demon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2004 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is possibly the best first-person shooter to come out this year (only until Half-Life 2 
 and Halo 2 come out) and one of the best games of all time in my opinion. Many people will argue 
 that the game-play is too standard, but this is, in fact, untrue. In my personal opinion, this 
 game has plenty to offer as far as game play goes. If id added things like vehicles, duel wielding 
 and things like that, some people would still complain. The game play is great as it is. 
  The graphics in this game are absolutely amazing. So great in fact, that even the highest of high 
 end machines still cannot run Doom 3 on the Ultra detail settings. This doesnt mean that the games 
 graphics will suck on all computers. My midrange system with a P4 1.8 and Radeon 9600 AIW Pro will 
 run this game on high level detail at 1280x1024 resolution with practically no drop in fps. 
  The sound is another extremely good feature about this game. It is highly recommended that you 
 play this game with surround sound (5.1 or higher) . Even without surround sound, the game will 
 still manage to spook you with endless eerie sounds. The flaws in the sound include the underpowered 
 sounding shotgun. Actually, I think that this is the only flaw and even it is so insignificant 
 that you will hardly notice when blasting the crap out of demons. 
  Another note-worthy point of this game is how it will make you jump out of your seat. There are 
 games that scare you by surprising you (i. e. some one jumping out of nowhere) , and Doom 3 has plenty 
 of these points. Doom 3 also has points that may actually scare you by freaking you out. *Possible 
 Spoilers* you may be walking around a dark narrow corridor and the screen bay turn red and distort 
 as random creepy stuff happens, like dead bodies start to fly and weird voices beckon you. When 
 you are immersed in this game and this stuff happens, it is actually pretty horrifying.
  Some key arguments against this game are minor little nit-picky things like not being able to hold 
 a flashlight and a gun. People argue that you should at least be equipped with night-vision in 
 this game, but seriously how are you going to enjoy Doom 3s graphics when everything is green. 
 The only weak point I see in this game is the multiplayer. It sticks to the old-school Doom death 
 match with only 4 players. This will get old pretty quick, and granted some servers will host up 
 to 16 players, the multiplayer is still pretty weak. 
  Doom 3 is my favorite FPS (until Half-Life 2 arrives on Nov. 16th) and if you dont set your expectations 
 through the roof like most people, you too will appreciate the beauty of this truly amazing game. 
 I recommend this game to any Doom fan, any FPS fan for that matter, and to any one looking for 
 a great FPS single-player experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Equals42
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 24, 2004 3:43 pm PT
Review:  After years of anticipation fueled by industry-wide hype, I was just as excited to be playing Doom 
 3 as the next guy. However, with all that pent up expectation it was probably inevitable that there 
 would be a certain level of disappointment.
  
  That is not to say that Doom 3 is a bad game  it is in fact a very good game. The uncanny and 
 often unnerving mesh of light and shadow as you literally work your way through hell is a tremendous 
 achievement for any computer game. That level of immersion is not easy to accomplish.
  
  That being said, I was still disappointed by the overall lack of imagination of the game in general. 
 Like a B-grade horror film, Doom 3 uses the annoying and increasingly less satisfying technique 
 of having evil things jump out at you from the dark. My startle reflex has been numbed so much 
 over the years that the fright value is equivalent to a grandmother saying boo to her grandchildren.
 
  
  One area where id can be especially proud is the sound within the game. Bypassing the innovatively-challenged 
 Creative Labs specifications in favor of ids own internally developed sound engine was a stroke 
 of gaming genius. Sound as a game immersive agent is too often neglected in computer games, but 
 Doom 3 should show all developers what can be accomplished if sound is developed as an integral 
 part of the experience.
  
  I think Doom 3 will go down in history as a good game that introduced a fantastic game engine; 
 a game engine that was used by developers for years to make historically significant Hall of Fame-type 
 games. Overall Doom 3 was a pleasant diversion, but I suspect the true legacy will be the games 
 that spawn from the engine. It is worth playing, but it will not be the best game you play this 
 year or any year to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerbudgp1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 10, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 will seem to amaze anyone who loved the old Doom (s) . Well... I guess you don't have to be 
 a fan of the old games to enjoy this one.
  
  Graphics- The graphics have a very gory atmosphere, it is kinda like Escape from Butcher Bay's graphics. The 
 lighting effect of the guns (when you shoot them) show that Doom 3 can do almost anything.
  
  Gameplay- Very scary visuals that will freak you out right when you see the first monster, but 
 the game itself seems a little short. NOTE: i wouldn't use cheats because the game will go super 
 fast with them.
  
  Sound- Here is what i really loved is when you can hear from a far distance that a monster was 
 coming. Sometimes a moster will come out of the middle of nowhere and make the scariest noise.
 
  The intro music is fair and there should be more in game music.
  
  Value- You can find it anywhere but it most stores it cost 54.99. It is worth the purchase. There 
 isn't really much to say about it's value.
  
  Tilt- Perfect, absolutly nothing to complain about.
  
  Doom 3 will seem to amaze anyone who 
 loved the old Doom (s) . Well... I guess you don't have to be a fan of the old games to enjoy this 
 one.
  
  So Doom 3 is what everyone thought it would be or worse. Doom 3 has a lot of gore and many demons 
 that it deserved it's M rating. Buy this Horror/action game if you love scary 1st person shooter 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visi0nz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2004 8:29 am PT
Review:  I have been a die hard doom fan since the first and an id soft fan since Wolfenstein 3D, I have 
 been waiting for Doom 3 for many years. Once I finished installing Doom 3 and started playing all 
 I could say was "Wow". This was definitley worth the wait, this is everything a FPS should be and 
 more. While playing it I felt a feeling I havent felt in years when I played the first two. I say 
 id soft has out done themselves again and have made another instant classic that will be played 
 for years to come.
  
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  The gameplay may be simple and boring to other people but I love it, sometimes simplicity is the 
 best.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  The graphics in Doom 3 are amazing, id did a great job on the graphics making everything look as 
 real as possible and gave me the feel that I was in the game.
  
  Sound: 10
  
  The monsters in the game sound awesome and all the gun effects are perfect, I wouldnt change a 
 thing.
  
  Value: 10 
  
  Doom 3 is definitely worth every penny and I feel I have gotten everyone of those pennies out of 
 this game.
  
  Tilt: 10 
  
  If you are a die hard Doom fan, a die hard id soft fan, or both, then this is a must have! If you're 
 not then definitely download the demo, you wont be unsatisfied.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: higzilla
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 21, 2004 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I am reminded of a lite beer comercial... when playing Doom 3. Looks great, and I mean It looks 
 awesome, but also less filling ... the game play gets old rather quickly. The excitement just wasn't 
 there after a few times around.
  
  I mean how many times can something"pop" out at you before you are totally numbed by the experience. 
 I was hyped too. I remember the days of having to send money to Id through the mail to get a copy. 
 The game was revolutionary for its time. And I am glad they added a back ground story. It did however 
 get to be a grind, there wasn't as much there as the original to hold my attention as in the original.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: damstr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 18, 2004 5:14 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 was a game that a lot of people where looking forward too. Besides the graphics which are 
 insanely good there is nothing special about this game. This game is like a lot of other FPS. I 
 got tired of this game pretty quickly.
  
  The graphics are really good. If u have a nice video card such as the Nvidia 6800 series then you 
 can play this game on its highest settings. Everything looks good. Shadows are well represented, 
 smoke, sparks, and fire look really good. 
  
  Gameplay is pretty good. I've played better. It seems like you have to shoot a million bullets 
 just to kill one monster. The A. I. isn't to smart. All the mosters use the same attacking method, 
 so after you've played this game for a while you know how the monster is gunna attack. Therefore 
 later on in the game killing a monster just gets annoying.
  
  Sound is pretty good. The monsters make very scary noise. The noise are even more scary when you 
 walk into a room and the light go out and you a here a monster but u dont know where it is. This 
 get your heart pumping.
  
  Overall this game is nothing new, besides the incredibaly good graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CGS-Sledge
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 17, 2004 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait for D3 to finally be released to the public a few months ago. The anticipation 
 of experiencing the Doom world again brought delight to this aging gamers cold as ice backbone. 
 I thought wow I remember just like it was yesterday playing Doom and thinking can games get much 
 better than this? Well we all know the answer to that question is yes they can. D3 is graphical 
 better than its big brothers but unfortunately looks are deceiving. D3 lacks in game play experience 
 which is so important in the FPS world we live in today. See the original Doom did not have the 
 competition that D3 has. So as a game maker it has become increasingly harder to bring something 
 new to the table when it comes to FPS type games. I think the creators of D3 was trying to do just 
 that and by doing so missed the point of why we all loved the original Doom games. Now with that 
 all said lets look at Doom 3 in its own light and try to forget the originals for now.
  
  What were they thinking? I have read this online many times now referring to D3. What were the 
 game creators thinking when they made D3? Well I think they were trying to do something new. The 
 creators took the scary parts of the original Doom and fed them a Berserker pill. As I play through 
 D3 it makes me think of all the scary movies that I have seen over the years. You know the ones 
 that as you get older you laugh at around your friends but still have trouble falling asleep at 
 night thinking what might be waiting for you in the dark. D3 does just that by sucking you into 
 a world of horror. Alone in the dark with demons around every corner waiting to jump out at you 
 making a change of underwear a necessity. Sure you have the, it is not scary crowd out there but 
 these are the closet closing lights on when no ones is around people. You know who they are, the 
 ones that say I am not scared of anything, that doesn't scare me. These people have more yellow 
 stains in their underwear than a chain smoker has yellow teeth. Doom 3 is scary if you do not play 
 it with friends around during the day light hours with lights turned on. You have to play Doom 
 3 the way it is meant to be played. Late at night with the lights off, alone. Then you will appreciate 
 what the creatures of D3 were trying to accomplish.
  
  The game play in D3 is repetitive and yes you will start to pick up on when the scary parts will 
 jump out at you. To me that just makes it even worse. I know it is coming so I inch a little more 
 down the hallway not knowing exactly when it will happen and then bam a daemon pops out of the 
 shadows and the sweat pores off my braw with anticipation and excitement. Do I wish that D3 had 
 bigger rooms? Sure but that is not what the creature wanted to give you. The point of the game 
 is to scare you by being alone in the dark with no place to run. You can't move to far either way 
 you are trapped and forced to fight your way through all the scary, bloody hallways lined with 
 death on all sides. The only thing D3 is missing is the smell of death to make it a complete hellish 
 experience.
  
  So if you like horror movies and you do not mind the repetitiveness of game play. If you like dark 
 stories around the camp fire. If you like not sleeping well after watching Jason whack the head 
 off of some poor teenager. Then you should love the experience you will get from Doom 3. If you 
 are looking for ground braking new game play with the same fast paced experience of the original 
 Doom games, then this is not it. Even though the feel of Doom is captured in D3 it is not the same 
 game experience as the original. It is dark and it is meant to be dark. Do not adjust the brightness 
 on you monitor there is no mistake made, Doom 3 is a dark disturbing romp through Hell.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberFreak81
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 14, 2004 11:58 pm PT
Review:  First of all I'd like to thank ID Software for sticking to the roots of the classic DOOM games. 
 Although, some of the gamplay and demons are different, that is a good thing. They put this game 
 together just the way I wanted it. I even had some classic doom moments, while playing. But, in 
 full realistic 3D and sound. This is the way the game was supposed to be. So I'm glad it was a 
 remake.
  
  Gameplay: I give a score of 9.0, because while it was similar to the classic, I still am getting 
 used to constant reload. But adding new stuff is alays good. A word of advice. Don't ruin the game 
 by downloading a weapon flashlight mod. I haven't, and don't intend too. And the gameplay experience 
 had been awesome. In fact forget any mod, unless you have played the whole game through, once, 
 without one.
  
  Graphics: 10.0 Simply the best I have ever seen. Textures that remind me of classic DOOM too.
 
  
  Sound: 10.0 I really sense I was there, because the sounds are so real. And the ambient music, 
 if you ever notice it, is great.
  
  Value: I will play this one for years and years.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewisty
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2004 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I can honestly never really understand some people !
  What is it with all show and no substance ???
  are you sure that you aren't playing another game?
 
  Something like the Sims, YUCK!!!, geez instead of playing something like that i'd rather put a 
 mirror up on my wall. 
  Anyway back on topic - DooM 3
  
  Gameplay : 10 
  
  Basically the same as most FPS games, though why would you want an overly complicated game to play 
 anyway?
  
  Graphics : 10
  
  ID back to their groundbreaking ways, 'geez was that real?' is a question i commonly ask myself. 
 you would see what i was talking about particularly if you have, hate to brag, the settings fully 
 cranked up.
  
  Sound : 10
  
  From the opening title to the ingame, the sound fits the atmosphere extremely well.
  magnifique' 
 
  
  Value : 10
  
  Its DooM .... of course its valuable !!!
  
  Tilt : 10
  
  In a word .......... WOW.
  
  Overall :
  
  Reminiscing about playing the old doom is something 
 this title reminds me of, well duh. ID can do no wrong - Carmack and Co, to you we owe a great 
 debt. this game is truly brilliant. Why some people were disappointed is beyond me, perhaps the 
 absence of some of the creatures ( spider mastermind for example ) , is behind their sorrow.
  Ah well, what do i look forward to now? .... Not to worry, as i'm sure most people are aware the 
 D3 Hell on Earth (The remake of DooM 2 mod) is under development and is already under development. 
 For those curious about this heres the link :
  
  http://d3hoe. d3files. com/
  
  DooM 4 EVA !!!!!!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: truthseer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 8, 2004 9:19 am PT
Review:  High points: Best graphics in a PC game to date. Creepy, dark environment with cut scenes and new 
 enemies to keep up the pucker factor. Old-school style that will keep many of the old Doom-ers 
 happy. The Soul Cube is quite the useful and unique "little" weapon. Still a very mod-able game.
 
  
  Low points: The old-school style may actually be a low point for some players, as the game leaves 
 out many of the innovations of FPS games before it (look around corners, combat rolls, flashlights 
 actually ATTACHED to weapons) . Multiplayer may leave much to be desired for some, particularly 
 those who savored the Deathmatches of old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 7, 2004 2:21 pm PT
Review:  A lot of mixed reviews on Doom 3 but if you knew what to expect ID delivered exactly what they 
 promised and remake of Doom with a new incredible graphics engine. They delivered with the best 
 graphics ever for a game highly polished character design, atmospheric and immersive gameplay, 
 great sounds and voice over. Id delivered what they promised and more.
  
  Graphics: Best ever, period. The game is beautiful from the monster character models to the highly 
 detailed weapon models. There is no doubt that Doom 3 is technically the best graphics ever for 
 a game. Some of the textures could of been a little more crisp but that is just nitpicking. There 
 really isnt anything to complain about in the graphics department, it is the best ever.
  
  Sounds: Now I recommend that you download the Trent Reznor sound pack which improves everything 
 from the weapon sounds to the monster sounds. This was supposed to be the original sounds for the 
 game but Reznor and Id has a falling out. The games sounds are still great without this sound pack 
 but it is much better with it as it was how Doom 3 was meant to be heard. Get the Trent Reznor 
 sound pack. Weapon sounds are meaty and robust they really pack some muscle. The monster sounds 
 are downright scary and disturbing. There isnt much music in the game besides the menu music. This 
 is a good thing it keeps the suspense at higher levels without any music to distract from any of 
 the suspense. The sounds are just downright superb with the Reznor pack and still great even without 
 it.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is old school Doom style. The story isnt anything special but it is better 
 than past Doom games. Now some people dont like the fact that you have to switch back and forth 
 from your guns to flashlight but this is what gives all the suspense in Doom 3. IF the flashlight 
 was attached to guns and on the whole time it would make the game much less suspenseful and much 
 too easy. A lot of the fun is having to switch from your light to the gun fast enough when a monster 
 pops out of nowhere.
  
  The level design is somewhat repetitive in spots but it does get better throughout the game. The 
 beginging of the game is really good, this is where you first start to feel the suspense building. 
 The game is long! 25 to 30 hours to beat the single player. This is much longer than most FPS these 
 days in fact it is twice as long as most FPS's save for Far Cry which is similarly as long.
  
  The weapons pack a punch. You have many familiar weapons from the old doom games including 
 the BFG. The weapons have great effects and all server their purpose. The soul cube is something 
 that adds a dimension to the game as well.
  
  Overall Doom 3 is a fun, suspenseful and action packed game combined with incredible graphics and 
 great sounds. They probably could of done the story a little better and varied the levels some 
 more. The multi-player is also just average but expect some great mods to come from this game very 
 soon. If you love old school shooters and appreciate great graphics Doom 3 won't dissapoint, if 
 you go in to this game thinking it will be this tactical game with an epic story then you will 
 be dissapointed. Id delivered on what they promised and what you have is an incredible remake of 
 the original Doom with enough new twists not to be a rehash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artman420
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 6, 2004 7:01 am PT
Review:  I've waited an eternity for this game and I finally got it! 
  I just played it for 5 hrs. and I'm impressed. The game is indeed a very scary game. I just shoot 
 1 or 2 monsters then quit. That's how scary it is. The starts as you being a marine *MINOR SPOILER* 
 named Sgt. Kelly (aka Doom guy) . He's been sent to UAC's resarch facility in Mars. You start out 
 doing 1 or 2 missions then all hell breaks loose. You fight against one of the most scariest zombies/ 
 demons ever seen in video games. Sure they don't look like nothing when you see the pictures but 
 they look very scary in the game. If you feel a bit scared from playing single player you can always 
 play muliplayer which runs up to 4 players or maybe more. Some people already modded to make more 
 than 4 people join a game. Playing online is addicting and fun. The only flaws I found in the game 
 was that the game is sometimes very dark, Stupid AI, almost every game in multiplayer needs a password 
 or the game is full and a filter wont help. This game is one of the best FPS since Half Life or 
 Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retrosepa
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 6, 2004 6:25 am PT
Review:  The year is 2004, gamers around the world has waited for this day to come. The day Doom 3 is done, 
 boxed up and released. The time is now, when we say goodbye to our friends and family. We switch 
 off the light, lock our doors and get ready for the most adrenaline-pumped experience of our gaming 
 history. 
  
  The original Doom gave us a glimpse of what future games will bring, it also gave us one hell of 
 a scare at the same time. Not only was it scary, it was one of the most enjoyable games ever to 
 be released. I can still remember running around, frantically looking for security keys to open 
 the next door to the next level. Thought its done? Well, youre wrong. Doom essence stayed in 
 Doom 3, only this time is it more frantic and scary than any other game. 
  
  Shockwave of Terror 
  I was mostly scared playing this game, and Im too scared to play it alone 
 at night. With sometimes only a small beam from your flashlight lighting a few meters in front 
 of you, you cant help being scared. Not knowing when a monster may appear. Many times I found 
 myself walking around a corner, only to great a monster with my flashlight (and no, you dont carry 
 a gun when you have your flashlight out) and having to step back and take out a weapon. 
  
  Luckily, the weapon switching is fast and responsive, saving my ass a lot of times. My weapon of 
 choice is the shotgun, with one close-up blow to a zombie will take him down instantly. The pistol 
 is affective if you are low on ammo, which actually happens quicker then you think. The machine 
 gun is a weapon of choice for a long distance or mowing down a few zombies in a hallway. 
  
  Graphics, nothing to compare to 
  The graphics of Doom 3 is absolutely amazing, topping even 
 the stunning Far Cry. I dont want to compare the two, but Doom 3s graphics are much more rounded 
 off. The texturing of the research facility is nothing short of a work of art. This truly sucks 
 you into the whole Doom experience. 
  
  There were two things about the graphic engine that really shines through is the lighting (no pun 
 intended) and the true detail in the models. Your flashlight is your best friend sometimes, but 
 you cant help starring at how the flashlight creates shadows. There are times that I just stood 
 there and moved the mouse around just too see how the light makes shadows fall. 
  
  The detail of the models, creatures and human alike, are more realistic than any other game Ive 
 played. The smooth motions of the creatures really show how well the modeling was done The facial 
 movements on the human models is really lifelike when they talk, sometimes I wish they could just 
 keep talking. The bad part of this great modeling has to be that it makes the game even scarier. 
 
  
  Is there a fault? 
  The only fault I found was that the game wasnt released earlier. I actually glad they made us 
 wait this long, because now you can actually appreciate this game in all its glory, without having 
 to wait any longer. As Ive played this game, I couldnt find anything wrong with it. No bugs, 
 no clipping or graphic issues. I dont think id Software will have to release a patch for this 
 game anytime soon. 
  
  Final thoughts 
  This game is all its supposed to be, fun, scary and brilliant. Although almost all gamers wished 
 that the game was brought out earlier, I think this was very good timing by id Software, every 
 gamer around the world was shocked after hearing those three words Doom 3 is done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballistica
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2004 2:54 am PT
Review:  I bought this game and played it on my laptop. I travel a lot so burning time on airplanes by playing 
 games is a great way to pass time. This game entertained me right up until the very end. In fact, 
 I loved it so much I wanted to write a review. My first review ever.
  
  I'll briefly explain what drew me in so deeply. I loved the story, and I loved how it was presented. 
 The videos, audio files, scientists all were believable and convincing. I thought the pace of the 
 story was also perfect. The game was just long enough for me. But, now that it's over, I wish there 
 was more. I want a whole new game, just like this. Now. I want Doom 4. Now. I was thoroughly engrossed 
 in the 'exploration' aspect of the game. I wanted to explore and uncover everything.
  
  Now for the gerneric review stuff:
  
  Graphics: Do I really need to say anything? Best ever. 
 Even on my laptop, I was floored. I want to go out and buy a real rig when the 512 cards are available 
 to replay the whole thing the way it was meant to be played. Surround sound and all. This time, 
 definitely on a higher difficulty level.
  
  Sound: Absolutely fantastic. The best ambient sound ever. Hands down. Combine the story, the graphics 
 and the sound and I was in the game.
  
  Controls: It's iD. The controls are perfect.
  
  Atmosphere: Yes, I rate this as a class. This game ooozed it. Yes, it was dark, but not overly 
 dark like some have said. The game is supposed to be dark. It's the final enemy in the game. I 
 loved it because it was intensly spooky. I will also say this: The game was jump in my seat scarey. 
 I know others say it wasn't but they are just dorks who would complain about going to heaven. The 
 game will make you jump... constantly. Yes, they use the same tactic over and over... but it works 
 over and over. It always seems so fresh. I must have looked like a maniac bouncing in my seat on 
 the airplanes. It was almost embarassing. In fact, it was tense to play. That's a good thing.
 
  
  Multiplayer: Who cares. I play other games online.
  
  Anything negative? Yes. As much as I loved the story, I wanted more interaction with humans. I 
 have to say, I really liked Sarge. I forged a bond with his character and liked it when he talked 
 to me. I wanted to meet up with him and stand back to back and fight. It never happened. In fact, 
 I was sad that he **spoiler**was turned and I had to kill him**. I don't mind that I had to do 
 it, but it would have been so much more emotionally sad if we fought tooth and nail, and then I 
 finally lost him. What I'm trying to say is I wanted more human interactivity. I really enjoyed 
 it when I found scientists. But I wanted to meet up with some marines, battle to the death with 
 them. Avenge them. Avenge Sarge.
  
  I will say this though. iD get's a 10 for delivering what they wanted to deliver. It's perfect 
 in that context. how it compares to my expectations rates a 9.3. I dock them .7 because I wanted 
 Doom3 to mature graphically, story-wise, and personally. They got 2 out of three 100%, the third 
 I dock them slightly because I wanted to care more.
  
  That is my only negative remark. The game never crashed, never had any bugs. The production values 
 were the epitome of game making.
  
  Buy this and play all the way through. It's worth every penny.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drive3r
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 2, 2004 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Right now my jaw is hurting quite a lot. This happens when its been dropped to the floor frequently 
 over the course of a couple of days. Doom 3 was finally released and the wait was worth it. In the 
 future that is around 2145 the earth is in a state where it is running our of natural resources. We, 
 have however built outposts on Mars with the most prominent being the Union Aerospace Corporation's 
 research facility. This former military organization now works to build machines that will for instance 
 take the soil of Mars and turn it into water, along with gas and green slime which is obviously 
 seperated ! that is atleast what the public is supposed to know, because even though these projects 
 are being researched some naughty buisness is taking place behind closed doors like making teleportation 
 devices. One of the teleportation units malfunctions and opening the doors to hell ! Thats where 
 it all begins.
  Graphics:
  Visually i would like to point out that this game contains some disturbing scenes. The gore is 
 excessive and realistic, this is as close as you will go to hell without actually going there. Much 
 of the immersion in Doom 3 is due to the incredible engine, and amazing artwork. The engineis, 
 as of right now by far the most advanced used in a game. Its mainly to render indoor graphics but 
 it can also render highly impressive outdoor enviornments. The lighting, shadowing and animating 
 are probably the main things that make it impressive to fully describe whathe game looks like but 
 suffice to say its well beyond anything to date.
  Sound:
  Fortunately the voices and sound effects are nothing less than perfect. I have zero complaints 
 except that you sometimes notice the same voice actining multiple times. The sound effects are crystal 
 clear , perfectly real and with a lot of bass.
  Gameplay:
  Standard FPS graphics. Althought it is unuasuall that youre in the year 2145 and you can't have 
 a flashlight attached to your weapon !
  Overall:
  The best graphics ever seen but at a price. Attention ! This game is a gigantic system hog and 
 youll have to burn quite a large hole in your pocket to afford to play this game with some eye 
 cande. Anyway this is one fantastic game and a must buy for every PC Owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hayabusa2004
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2004 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the latest installment to the Doom series by iD. Although technically it is a remake 
 of the first Doom, with just a bit more story, and one hell of a graphics over-haul. The most common 
 question among people wanting to get Doom 3 is "Will my computer handle it?" if you do have the 
 hardware to run this beast you won't be disappointed with the game's overall graphics. The environments 
 are almost all "living", if it's blinking lights, machinery, steam from pipes or faulty equipment 
 nearly every room has something to it.
  
  You start the game as a no-name (and silent) marine who has just recently been transferred to the 
 Mars outpost, the two other characters that land with you are part of the story. Basically, the 
 company that finances the Mars outpost- UAC are receiving complaints about the way the station 
 is being run by the lead scientist. You'll encounter a few NPC's who feel bad for your character 
 as he arrives at the outpost, with just a few things to do in the beginning of the game you'll 
 quickly make your way to the Sarge (who also plays a part in the game's story) . Sarge gives you 
 your first assignment which seems simple enough; find a missing scientist. 
  
  You'll make your way through some parts of the outpost, get equipped with weapons and armor, and 
 of course your handy-dandy flashlight! The flashlight is an integral part of your equipment, many, 
 many rooms are very dark and you will need your flashlight in most cases. As your character makes 
 his way further into abandoned parts of the outpost you'll slowly feel the tension start to build 
 as the lights are less frequent, as are the people. When you find the scientist all Hell (pun intended) 
 breaks loose and you are quickly thrown into the rest of the game. Through the first portion of 
 the game you will receive radio transmissions from the Sarge of where to go, you'll also hear transmissions 
 from Marines that are in combat and usually being torn to bits by demons. 
  
  Playing Doom 3 with surround sound, or headphones, and with the lights off is a very tense experience. 
 You might find yourself saving everytime you enter a room, because you know there's something out 
 there! The classic monsters are all back in their bloody and disgusting glory. The zombies are 
 slow moving and easy targets for the beginning of the game, then you run into zombie Marines who 
 are indeed armed. The most common enemy you'll run into is the good ol' Imp! The once slow moving, 
 fireball throwing low-bit monster is now an 8-eyed, wall crawling, leaping, screaming, fireball 
 throwing monster. There are of course more monsters but I'd rather not spoil the fun.
  
  Doom 3 is a very fun experience for the most part, but towards the end every objective just seems 
 to get tedious and boring. You'll want to keep playing just so you can beat it and be done with 
 it. If you're looking for a game that can scare the crap out of you, and has tons of mindless violence 
 and killing- pick Doom 3 up when you can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metman4u
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2004 10:06 pm PT
Review:  The engine is awesome, the play fast paced, intense and full of surpises! Descending to Hell is 
 scary enough, but what if you don't get out? Love this first person shooter, interaction with the 
 PDA's, the character's and "Dr. Doom" is great. The wepondary is great and you should choose wisely 
 for each opponent. The downside: dark surroundings and sometimes difficult to navigate, with our 
 without a flashlight. Otherwise a totally rush!
  Oh, and bring a fast machine and a even faster video card. The best for money/performance I found 
 was NiVida 5900 with 128 MB of video ram. I am using a AMD processor with 2500+ rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whateve_r
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 29, 2004 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Whatever the people say whatever anyone says, don't bother. This game may not be what most of us 
 expected but it surely deserves to be on your game shelves because it is a masterpiece and also 
 belongs to none another to the DOOM family.
  
  The only problem is that you need to have a good rig. I myself having a Radeon 9800XT could not 
 play the game ultra settings. But to tell the truth i really enjoyed the game. The first four to 
 five hours were which made the game an experience to remember. It was scary and dark. I suggest 
 that people with medium rigs but good audio systems should buy tis game. The sound is what makes 
 this game a masterpiece. 
  
  People might find the switching between the flash light and the weapons a little irritating but 
 nowdays mods are releasing that solve this problem. They allow you to have a flash light below 
 your shot gun as well as your machine gun. The hype is what made the game get bad reviews from 
 many people. More the hype and more is what people expect from the game. 
  
  This game is a must buy anyhow because it gives an experience in the begining that cannot be explained. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 5.6
Date: Sep 26, 2004 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This ia great shooter to say the least. As far as shooters with true offline component go, this 
 one is the best that I have seen in years. The graphics are amazing, and the gameplay is nice.
 
  
  Although people may say that the gameplay isn't up to par, I tend to disagree. In fact the gameplay 
 is really, really nice, simply because of the enviroment that it is set in. This shooter keeps 
 you on the edge of your seat and that is what counts. To further add to the expierence, no one 
 could have asked for better graphics in a game. I don't think that you can really expierence this 
 game until the graphics are really turned up. This game is really, really amazing. It was worth 
 the wait, and lived up to the hype. Wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 25, 2004 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have to say, I just, finally, finished Doom 3. This is one scary game. id Software makes 
 extremely good use of sound and visuals. This is as scary as I remember Doom and Doom 2 being in 
 their time frame. Remember, that Doom 3 has to compete with today's technology. On gameplay, not 
 a lot has been added since the original 2 parts. Some of the maps are less inspired, but the sound 
 has had a major overhaul. The hell knight is scary, but I do miss the original baron of hell's 
 "opening scream". The one he hollered at you when he saw you. I still remembering that scaring 
 the hell :) out of me.
  
  Don't expect a ground breaking title on gameplay. It's a straight sequel. Both on sound and visuals 
 this game simply kicks ass.
  
  My advice is to download the demo, if you like that then you'll love the game. If you're going 
 for plot-involved games, forget this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasT3quila
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2004 1:06 am PT
Review:  I just finished Doom3 today after about a week of late night action. I've been following the game 
 for the past 4 years and still fondly remember working through the originals on my 486.
  So... my verdict? It was worth seeing, not worth buying at the current price. I wish the demo would 
 have been released earlier.
  There are over a hundred reviews here, which mention the graphics, etc. Yes, the game engine is 
 phenomenal, but at the same time, is just another evolutionary step in graphics. There are other 
 games pushing that envelope too. The first five hours or so I found myself glued to my chair as 
 they built the plot. Playing at 1am in the dark added to the experience as well. There are many 
 hair-raising moments!
  Those moments keep coming all the way to the end. Even though you know creatures are going to spawn 
 as soon as you round the corner, the combination of the light flash, and the sound will get you 
 every time.
  Eventually I felt that oh so familiar bordem/frustration begin to set in. Youll realize before 
 too long that the gameplay is what it is (find key card or pda to open door) , and other than the 
 next levels graphics, theres really not much to look forward to than the final boss and ending 
 sequence.
  Now having seen those, I doubt I will revisit this game and it will probably be removed to clear 
 up some HD space.
  I am glad I finished it, as I did the other games in the series. What Im really looking forward 
 to are future games based on this engine.
  One little nitpick is in the ID staff PDA info Easter Egg. J Carmack is a legend, drives a Ferrari 
 F50, and is in the Xrace with Armadillo Aerospace. Hes a co-owner of ID, and has been a part of 
 Doom since the beginning. I was really looking forward to reading his PDA credits. All we get from 
 him is a Thank you.
  I have to mention that on the AA website, he says something like its a good thing Doom is selling 
 well after spending hundreds of thousands on rocket engine experiments. Probably doesnt realize 
 hes got a fan following like a celebrity.
  
  I just remembered that in the early doom's, your stats were tracked and when you finished a level 
 you got to see how you did. Kills, time, secrets. There was NOTHING like that this time around 
 and hence very little replay value. Come to think of it, the original games were actually more 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobdillon
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2004 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Many other people have already talked a great deal about how Doom 3 did not live up to their expectations, 
 was all glitz and no substance, missed the point of the Doom franchise, or a combination of all 
 three of those arguments. However, my own concern is actually quite a simple (but fundamental) 
 one; ID have tried so hard to make Doom 3 film-like that they have completely missed the point 
 of the medium, i. e., that it is actually meant to be a game!
  
  A simple example that gets to the very core of what I am talking about is the way in which Doom 
 3 handles flashlight/gun switching. Now, many people have already stated how much they dislike 
 the functionality of this aspect of the game play. Personally speaking, when I first began to play 
 the game I actually liked the idea a lot. The need to switch between what are essentially defensive 
 and combative modes adds a real tactical element to the game play, as well as a real sense of unease. 
 However, after a while I started to realise that even in this most basic element ID had shown that 
 it had been far more interested in how things looked rather than how well they functioned.
  
  Its fair to say that it has become almost pointless to talk about how lovely Doom 3s graphics 
 engine is. It excels with great world detail, lighting and shadows, and this plays right into the 
 hands of the games flashlight. To accentuate the film-like presentation (which is by and large 
 faultless) your flashlights beam is offset to one side - right along the Golden Mean  and while 
 this turns almost every other frame into a perfectly composed painting full of atmosphere and horrific 
 images, it isnt that great if you actually want to be able to see anything thats in front of 
 you! On top of this, when you need to change back to your gun for shooting (which for all the lovely 
 graphics is actually the guts of the game) you quickly realise that the direction of your guns 
 crosshair is not the same as the beam of your flashlight! Constantly having to adjust your viewpoint 
 when switching between your flashlight and gun really starts to build up a lot of frustration over 
 time. Often you get the feeling that you are battling the game instead of playing it, and that 
 is something that should never really happen.
  
  For all Doom 3s excellent presentation you constantly get the feeling that the look of the game 
 was far more important to the developers than the way it actually played. Whether its the inclusion 
 of unnecessary cut scenes, the relatively sluggish feeling of the player characters movement, or 
 the fleeting impact that the PDA actually has on game play, your immersion is constantly being 
 broken by niggling things. All in all Doom 3 makes for some very nice eye candy (and ear candy 
 - the sound is fantastic) , but your experience is constantly marred by annoying game play and balancing 
 issues that make it more annoying than it really should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 24, 2004 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I have never been a huge Doom fan, and I havent been anticipating this game for 5 years I didnt 
 buy it looking for something revolutionary. I just wanted a game with great graphics to push my 
 new video card to the max, and I wanted an action game that would make me feel genuinely scared. 
 Im happy to say, this game definitely does the trick. This is a fantastic game and all that you 
 need to do to enjoy it is suspend disbelief for a while. 
  
  Why did I enjoy this game so much? In one word, atmosphere. This game has the insecure, tense, 
 creepy atmosphere that I have only experienced in games like Thief and System Shock 2. You never 
 feel totally safe in this game, no matter what is happening or where you are. You never know when 
 the lights could go out, or when a pair of zombified marines is going to barge through the door 
 on the other side of the room and start shooting at you. The game does rely on lots of cheap tricks, 
 and they do get a bit predictable after a while, but the game is somewhat forgiving. One thing 
 that never happens is that the action never gets boring. Even though the variety of enemies in 
 the game is low and their patterns of attack are somewhat simple, there is enough tension in each 
 encounter to keep you on the edge of your seat. This game has been criticized for its repetitiveness, 
 and there is a lot of merit to that. But it does manage to slowly ramp up the difficulty while 
 introducing new weapons and enemies.
  
  Most of the fights in the game are against one or two enemies at a time. And with a few exceptions, 
 they are extremely tense and exciting. No matter how many imps or zombified marines you fight, 
 it never feels easy (even though they dont do a lot of damage to you) . If an imp teleports in 
 next to you, you have to quickly switch to your shotgun and blast it will sidestepping its fireballs. 
 When a marine appears, you have to find some cover quickly and then take him down from a distance, 
 if possible. You will do this many times, but each time, you end up on the edge of your seat.
 
  
  I have seen a lot of reviews for this game that describe it as old school Doom, but that's not 
 really true. This game is a lot more like System Shock 2 or Half-Life than the previous Doom games. 
 This game borrows heavily from both of those two games, in the way that it tells its story and 
 in the way that it feels. The game advances the story with voice recordings that you find (right 
 out of System Shock 2) and with scripted events that you witness without a cut scene (right out 
 of Half-Life) . The story isnt very good and Doom 3 might have been better off without one.
  
  A lot has been said about the fact that its dark everywhere, and you cant use your flashlight 
 and a gun at the same time. This does seem like a contrivance for a game that is set on a futuristic 
 space station. If you can suspend disbelief for a while, what youll really find is that it adds 
 a lot to the game. The dark areas add a lot of tension. Sometimes they hide enemies, and sometimes 
 they dont. Often you will be in a dark area and youll hear a zombie moaning somewhere. Then youll 
 have to quickly switch to your flashlight and find your enemy. Then switch back to the gun and 
 aim in the dark, using only the brief flashes from the muzzle of the gun to aim. These are some 
 truly scary moments. I havent experienced anything quite like this before. There have been a few 
 games that use darkness to let you hide, but this is the first game to let enemies hide in the 
 dark. This is a significant innovation that the game is not being credited for.
  
  This game does look excellent. Doom 3 has superb monsters, and lots of cool machines and lighting 
 effects. Some of the weapon effects, like the plasma gun, look excellent too. I do give it a 9 
 for graphics though, because the scenery is repetitive, and a lot of the textures in the game are 
 kind of average to me (I actually liked the graphics in Painkiller and Far Cry better) . The audio 
 is also quite impressive. Most of the voice acting is very good, and the environmental sounds do 
 a lot to keep you on edge. Some of the weapons sound weak in the base game, but if you use the 
 Beefysounds mod, then that wont be a problem. I think that the audio for Thief: Deadly Shadows 
 was better, but here its still good.
  
  The level design is pretty solid, even though its not very creative. Puzzles are kept to a minimum 
 if not nonexistent, and here this is a good thing, since it keeps the action going. The worst part 
 about the level design has to be the way that there is ammo, health, and armor power-ups lying 
 about in strange places in every room. Especially under the stairs. This feels pretty silly having 
 a clip of machine gun ammo and some rockets under the stairs or under a walkway in every room. 
 The game tries somewhat hard to be realistic, but this is one of the ways that the realism gets 
 broken. The game also places too many health power-ups on each level, which makes the game pretty 
 easy.
  
  Doom 3 deserves some credit for having a long, high-quality single-player campaign. If you are 
 tired of the rip-off value first person shooter campaigns that last one or two afternoons (Call 
 of Duty, Max Payne 2, heres lookin at you kid) , then you will be happy with the length of Doom 
 3. Overall, Doom 3 isn't as unforgettable as Far Cry, but it's still a great game that is well 
 worth playing.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adgal98
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2004 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok, finally we can play the long-awaited game. To be honest, after wait several years, we expect 
 more (as always happens) but even so, I think the waiting worth it... but not the money you have 
 to spend in hardware and the software of the game.
  
  The game follows the essence of the original Dooms, at the point that you can end having bad dreams 
 where you are being followed by monsters If you are nerve-weak, maybe this game is not for you.
 
  
  We have to admit that the best feature in this game is the quality in its graphics. Thank to the 
 graphics engine by ID, the atmosphere looks great. The combination of light and shadows are awesome. 
 This helps to make the environment creepy and scary but makes the game very dark (too dark in some 
 areas) . 
  The textures in the walls and the computers, is the best ever made for the PC. Obviously, this 
 come with a real drawback: you need to have a very good hardware to play this game well.
  In the box of the game you can read that an ATI 8xxx and even 9200 or Nvidia 4 Series is supported, 
 but your gameplay experience will be annoying and frustrating. You need at last a FX 5700 or an 
 ATI 9800. Im playing with a GT Force 6800 GT with 256 MB and even with 512 of RAM in the PC, it 
 says me that I cant play with the Ultra Quality by lack of RAM. How can be possible that 1/2 GB 
 of RAM can be not enough for a game!! Honestly, the game its cool, but doesnt worth that kind 
 of money in upgrades to your PC. Maybe only if you see the spend like an investment for next games 
 generation, like Duke Nukem Forever, by example.
  
  The sound has two sides to comment. By one hand, the digital sound of the effects and voices is 
 one of the coolest things of the game. You can virtually feel the monster behind you, or the zombie 
 soldiers at your right. The voices that you suddenly hear in the halls and the corridors make you 
 to get goose pimples. In the other hand the lack of soundtrack its a real pity. I really expected 
 a soundtrack better than the one in Quake 2, with a lot of heavy metal and rock, but no, just some 
 ambience songs (very alike to the original dooms) and the main screen theme. 
  
  Finally, I can say the Doom 3 is a very good game, but it ID Software owes us a lot for the time 
 we wait for it.
  
  Kaio 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 22, 2004 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I concur with many reviewers about Doom III: yes it can be resumed as a great FPS, not exceptional 
 though. The gameplay is effectively conventional,  la 90's, imprinted within a flashy DirectX 
 9 shell. No special moves, no leaning, only a few occasional jumps are needed when forced to ( 
 a few boring platforming ) . One word: atmosphere. It's the incredible atmosphere delivered by the 
 technical engine ( both graphics AND sound effects ) that saves the rest, otherwise I'd say Painkiller 
 could have been almost better than this with the far superior boss fights and fluid gameplay provided.
 
  
  However the claustrophobic sensation in Doom III renders the experience unique, not the creepiest 
 ever ( I think FarCry's Trigens have kept me on my toes even more...) , but still a lenghty SP 
 well worth the money.... and almost the wait. The shadows and lighting are fabulous, the heat haze, 
 the overall engine is powerful. That said a small detail has come to my attention about close-range 
 textures, you know when you see the static meshes the closer you can: they're quite BLURRED. Far 
 Cry and UT2004 are far better looking, but the distance zooming is from completely different engines 
 and coded for an opposite exterior\interior gameplay - so we cannot really compare. And those sounds..... perfectly 
 coded in a cavernous way, all this audio is - in fact - responsible for a large part of the experience 
 , and the player who can't really turn on the speakers ( living in an appartment ) should play 
 with a good set of headphones. And it's immersive enough with a good stereo. Why not a 10 instead 
 of 9 then? Because I just find the lack of in-game music to be.... unacceptable. There should have 
 been some made for memorable fights namely, not everywhere but still it could have be on point 
 to hear some tracks during strong scripted events.
  
  There are ragdoll physics too, but the casual player shall really see them only when using the 
 rocket launcher - the game's too dark otherwise to fully admire. The effects are fluid and fast, 
 and the gibbing intentionally limited I think.
  
  We were all advertised it should be a SP experience without an elaborate MP, and that's it. The 
 maps are OK, it's just unplayable for many gamers online for obvious reasons ( stability, flow, 
 high-end engine ) , and not to say the lack of servers. 
  
  Many find it easy, but in the end the calibration is just right since the heavily trial-and-error 
 scripting force the average player to reload often. Veteran difficulty offers a good/normal challenge, 
 and I've beaten it at both medium and veteran. In conclusion, Doom III is well worth playing and 
 the effort is ultra-professionnal. It's just it could have been even greater considering the 4-years 
 in development. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Welis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 22, 2004 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, reminds me like Half life.
  I love this game, only if i am 14, and this game is allowed for 18, but who care, i love bloody 
 games, but not too much hhehehe.
  But anyway, this game scare the freak of my dumb ass. I hate when those commandos ( spoiler i think 
 ) coming automaticly from the door and jump on me, i love this game but if you like a frist person 
 shooter games, Doom 3 is a good offer for FPS shooting scare a^^ h^^les , i mean beep beep beep.
 
  
  Fear the Ripper, if you can use a gun, then you are not dead.
  !!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennis2000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2004 12:43 am PT
Review:  I'll try not to repeat what so many other reviewers have already said about this game, but it's 
 hard not to do so. ID has delivered what was promised over 3 years ago, a complete remake of the 
 original Doom with a face-lift. The graphics in this game is truly awesome. Yes, graphics doesn't 
 make the game, but it sure helps. I'm thankful my rig can handle it in the highest settings without 
 getting any lag. The sound is beyond belief, it truly draws the player into this atmospheric masterpiece. 
 But it can only be appreciated if you posess a 5.1 surround sound system or 7.1. The gameplay bothered 
 me at first, I just had to get used to it. Not being able to hold a gun and flashlight at the same 
 time in this so-called distant future puzzled me for about the first 30 min. of game time, then 
 it was totally forgotten and overlooked, as I just mapped the flashlight/last weapon key to one 
 of the thumb buttons of my mouse. Some people complain about it being too dark, again, ID delivered 
 what was promised, they had mentioned that the game would be a little on the dark side to show 
 off the new lighting effects as well as the shadows. I personally enjoyed the game and I'm now 
 playing it for the third time, trying to beat it on Nightmare. If you're a FPS PC game fanatic 
 like me, this game is definitely for you. Especially for the single player campaign alone. But 
 if you're a multiplaying, RPG loving fool, then look somewhere else. Doom 3 is a 10 all the way, 
 and I'm looking forward to the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 21, 2004 10:09 pm PT
Review:  The Doom series was never really that good. The gameplay was exactly like the old cheesy Castle 
 Wolfenstein games and the graphics... Let's say it didn't satisfy the player to its full extent. 
 Although the game was fun in a sense when monsters just jump out to attack you, after playing 2 
 hours of the game, you start seeing a pattern. The same monsters in the same kind of maze just 
 pops out and nothing really new happens. Doom 3 is exactly like it. Doom 3 has to be probably the 
 best looking PC game of 2004 but the repititiveness of the gameplay just bores you to death. Also, 
 The game fails to really give you an "experience unlike anything before." You'd be surprised that 
 the gameplay is quite annoying. First off, you're in a pitch-black, isolated ship months from any 
 planet nearby. The only thing you have is a flashlight and some weapons. You can't have the flashlight 
 and gun at the same time, which gives you inaccuracy in shooting it and thus making you conituously 
 switch the light to the weapon. Also, if you noticed, these monsters are pretty nasty looking. 
 Demonic monsters from Mars that is. Now if these guys were really demonic, they would be pretty 
 hard to beat assuming that that they might acquire some divine power or soul to power them up by 
 a lot. This is the worst part of the game. The most demonic monster's power barely competes with 
 a puppy's. It's sheer idiocy when it comes to finding them so easy to beat them to a pulp. Doom 
 3 is the best in graphics and sound is an awesome as well. But looks can definitely be decieving. 
 Always go by this phrase when it comes to games like these: Never judge a book by its cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 20, 2004 11:21 pm PT
Review:  While there has been a whole slew of negative feedback and gamers dubbing Doom 3 as a "flop" I 
 wonder how many of those people have actually played the game. The game delivers what it promised 
 and nothing more. Fans of the original will be overjoyed.
  
  id Software claimed Doom 3 to be a retelling of the original, so this time around the plot is thicker 
 and more alive rather than the original which just pitted you in a monster infested facility. Here, 
 you are an unnamed marine known as none other than 'marine'. Who has been called on a scientific 
 research base of Mars, strange disturbances begin happening that have the workers spooked and then 
 they begin to disappear. Naturally you are the one selected to find out whats going on, and soon 
 enough a gate to hell is broken open and all of hells minions populate the facilities, leaving 
 you and the other few survivors to fight them off. While this plot is deeper than the original 
 it still is a pretty cheesy Hollywood type plot, none the less, it introduces us to some pretty 
 freaky demons.
  
  As far as graphics go, they are revolutionary. Even low-medium settings look very impressive as 
 to what you'd expect. The best part of the graphics is the lighting which is by far the more impressive 
 of any game released up to now. Since the areas are dark and most of the light sources come from 
 your flashlight or flickering lights, shadows play a big role in the game and you'll definetly 
 come out satisfied with them.
  
  Also, the games textures are gorgeously clear and crisp. Computers can be used without going into 
 a new menu and screens and videos are extremely clear. It simply looks amazing.
  
  The main problem with the graphics are the character models which often appear jaggy. Faces sometimes 
 have a fold at the front and bald characters have pointy scalps but this is a minor problem and 
 the characters still look excellent thanks to their textures.
  
  The gameplay is where most gamers found their problems. Starting with the extremely dark atmosphere 
 that is difficult to see. I believe that these people probably are just to scared to play through 
 dark rooms, that's why they complain. The game is meant to scare, and in the darkness, it succed's 
 greatly. It is very creepy and although sometimes zombie soldiers shoot you without a pause in 
 the dark and you may become frustrated that you can't see them, this is also a minor inconvieniance 
 and is few and far between.
  
  Another problem people had was the flashlight and how the marine can't carry it with another weapon 
 or none of the guns have one. Sure, this doesn't make much sense and I would have liked to see 
 it on the pistol (to give an exuse to use it) but is simply another tactic to scare us. And again 
 is successful. When not hiding behind the barrell of your shotgun, a zombie who lurches out from 
 behind a corner will frighten you, besides, switching to a gun takes no time at all.
  
  The entire Doom series has been run and gun gameplay. It baffles me as to why people are unhappy 
 with how Doom 3 plays. It's as though they expected puzzles and mind games when this, along with 
 all the previous games, was, run, shoot, get to objective, run, shoot, repeat. This game delivers 
 classic Doom action and serves as great fun taking down beasts and dodging their attacks while 
 pumping them full of lead. Sure, this does get repetative but that's when it's time for a breather 
 and return to the game later.
  
  There was one problem I found with the game, and that is the gun sound effects. They are definetly 
 underpowered. The pistol could pass as a cap gun and the machine gun as a pea shooter. It's as 
 though in the future they added on invisible silencers or something. The shotgun doesn't have the 
 deep bang that it did in the first two installments and definetly makes you feel more weak and 
 nimble against the huge monsters facing you. Unfortuantly, zombies guns sound deep and powerful 
 but when you pick them up it's like they went on mute or something. Definetly a shortcoming.
  
  Fortuantly, id rebounds with some amazing environmental sound effects. The radio effects of 
 people screaming and voices and noises is very scary and immersive. The monsters shreak with a 
 high pitch and terrifying velocity and character voices are excellent. This part of the sound is 
 flawless.
  
  For those of you who enjoyed the original Doom games and are looking for a state of the art shoot 
 em up. Doom 3 can not disappoint especially while your blasting your way through hells forces you're 
 getting scaried silly. Although if you like to use your brain to solve puzzles and blast through 
 monsters, try finding a more complicated game, Doom 3 is very simple and involves you to just run 
 and shoot whatever stands in your way. There is some backtracking but if you miss something, it's 
 your fault. I felt myself extremely satisfied with the finished copy of Doom 3 despite the negative 
 buzz. If you ask me I'll tell you, yes, it was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Python
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 20, 2004 2:39 pm PT
Review:  You know
  
  I just love being scared. Doesnt matter what forum, or venue that I happen to be in or playing. 
 I just love the feeling when its over. H A T E I T!! ! When its happening LOL but LOVE it when 
 its over.
  
  I think I started enjoying being scared the first time I went and saw the movie, Its Alive in 
 the theatre way back in 1974. I still remember being freaked out. Not so much by the action of 
 the movie, but by the growling of the baby. (Seriously, dont take my mention of this movie as 
 what I think a good movie is This movie is a complete waste of time, but is being used to make 
 a point... SO BACK OFF!... Hehe) I mean, the baby didnt scare me so much, but the suspense of 
 knowing something is going to happen and hearing noises that builds your tension until the explosion 
 of action just drives me crazy, but is such an exhilarating feeling when its over, its hard to 
 put into words. I can still remember one guy in the group that I went to the theatre with was a 
 guy named Donnie. He was the brother of one of my friends and a little bit older than us. It was 
 one of the few times he graced us with his presence, and I think after the taunting, it was his 
 last. All I can remember about Donnie during this film is one sentence he spoke in the middle of 
 the movie when the action was getting bloody with the baby attacking everyone. He was sitting next 
 to me, and if you can picture this, he was bent over looking like he was getting sick, but wasnt 
 really sick, just trying not to look at the screen. So he sat there, hands on his knees, looking 
 directly down at the ground and said, I cant believe I spent $3.25 to stare at the floor! To 
 this day, that still cracks me up.
  
  The movie JAWS was another film that sort of gave me the creeps and had some shock moments, 
 but they werent scary. Its like a cat jumping out of a window at you. Not so much as scary, but 
 just freaks you out for a second. I mean, its enough to make you fall off your chair, but those 
 moments arent as memorable unless the suspense was added correctly to have you jumping out of 
 your shorts every few seconds when there is a noise. For example, when Brody is throwing chum off 
 the back of the boat and the shark comes out of the water. Shocking? Yes. Scary? Not really. There 
 was no build-up for that. It was the cat out of the window thing. I could name other movies that 
 did a great job of setting you up, or playing on your fears, The Exorcist (1973) , Ghost Story 
 (1981) , or Night of The Living Dead (1968) but I think you get my meaning. If you dont watch 
 these films and get back to me. Ill explain it again to you simpletons!
  
  So I got DOOM-3. My buddy invited me over for a few beers and to look at the game, so I picked 
 up two copies and headed over. Watched him go through the intro of the character and start the 
 fighting scenes. Then I went home, installed the game, got a beer, turned up the surround sound, 
 and turned off the lights. Let me just say, that after playing a few hours I had to stop because 
 I was completely freaking out and jumping at all sounds. Not to mention during one fight, my German 
 Shepherd Dog (GSD) , Dualie, licked my arm and about had me in a coronary. Not since Resident Evil 
 on the Playstation have I felt so scared during a game. So I saved where I was, turned off the 
 PC and began turning on every light in the house as I went and let my two dogs out. Harley (GSD/Collie 
 mix) was let out with a pat on the back. Dualie (GSD Pure) was let out with a scowl and look of 
 distain for almost putting me in the hospital.
  
  I actually cant wait to get back to playing it tonight. And I actually want to play with all the 
 lights off, the surround sound on at full blast. I LOVE BEING SCARED!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ninja
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 19, 2004 11:36 pm PT
Review:  It was quite an excillerrating game but, it did have it's ups and downs for instinst. This is my 
 opinion so here we go. So you land on mars city right and you go through have of the game and something 
 comes to you. You keep on doing the excact thing over and over again. You shoot and you run. Gorilla 
 tactics really. You start noticing this right and you start getting bored. (This happened to me but 
 some people like it alot more than me.)
  
  Don't get me wronng I do like the game but, it gets boring fast. But you should also put this game 
 in your collection and have fun. Don't come to me saying that I was wrong it's my opinion others 
 will have thiers i guess the overall thing here is buy the game. So, go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steveh14
Rating: 4.9
Date: Sep 18, 2004 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps it was all the hype but this was one of the most disappointing games a have played in a 
 long time. The graphics are awesome when you can see them but unfortunately that isnt very often. 
 The vast majority of this game involves going down dark or almost dark corridors waiting for monsters 
 to pop up out of nowhere. I kept waiting for something different but it never really happens. Even 
 when you are in Hell you are still going down dark corridors.
  The monsters themselves while look good arent very inspiring and they have no intelligence what 
 so ever. As soon as they see you they head right for you the same exact way every single time. 
 There are a few enemies that have a ranged attack and will stay at a distance to fire at you but 
 even then they follow the exact same firing pattern every time. Maybe a couple of years ago that 
 would have been acceptable but in this day and age that is pretty lame. Also, with one or two exceptions 
 there are no big insane battles. You almost always only come across the monsters one or two at 
 a time.
  
  My modus operandi for playing first person shooters is to play through the first time on a low 
 level so I can enjoy the game by looking around and doing a little exploring while playing. (Even 
 though most of these games force you to follow a specific path there is usually some leeway. That 
 is impossible with this game. A horse with blinders on could see more.) I will then go back and 
 play again on a higher level until it either gets too hard or I get sick of the game. I was on 
 my fourth time through Far Cry before that started happening. It was a struggle to make it through 
 Doom just once because it is so repetitious. Needless to say Doom 3 has already been removed from 
 my hard drive. I sure hope Half-Life 2 isnt this disappointing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaor
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 18, 2004 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Well first of, throw away al lthe hype and garbage about this game being the "game" of games. Because 
 like all games, some are more antisipated then others, this is one of those games.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  Gameplay is very good overall. Although the game gets a bit fimiliar near the 
 end. In the earlier lvls theres a few really cool scripted events. But these get less and less 
 as the game progresses. But the amount of enemies increase. Although they are the same enemies 
 once you hit about half way through the game, it still is fun to mindlessly blow them all away.
 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  There's no letdown in this category, Doom 3 is as of now on to with it's new engine, but his won't 
 last for long, with HL 2 on the horizon. The game looks incredible and the graphics add to the 
 tense situations.
  
  Sound: 
  
  This is Doom 3's best area, the sounds are great, every once in awhile just getting to you enought 
 to provide the next scare. There's a lack of "scary" games out there, and the sound in Doom 3 does 
 a good job adding to the intenseness of the game.
  
  Value: 
  
  This game is great the first time through, not to long, a little on the short side for such an 
 awaited game. Only reason to play it through twice would be on a new rig. 
  
  Overall: 
  
  Doom 3 does a good job pushing the PC bill, and succeeds in areas of sound and atmosphere, 
 and graphics. But what holds it back from a perfect game is the tacked on story, which is there, 
 but PDA's don't make up great for a lack of purpose. I know its hell on mars so there's not much 
 chance for a "deep" story, but they could have incorporated the story into the gameplay alot better 
 then they did. Great Game Overall! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarTS
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 18, 2004 4:52 am PT
Review:  So by now Doom3 has been out a month or so and most people have a good idea what this game is about 
 and what to expect. Ready or nothere come my two cents.
  
  First off, The Annoyances:
  
  Ill take a moment to echo the same complaint that everyone else is about not being able to 
 hold a flashlight and a gun at the same time. It is pretty stupid but I figure it was just a way 
 for the developers to increase the tension somewhat. Whether or not it worked I couldnt tell you 
 because early on in my Doom3 experience I downloaded a flashlight mod which adds a flashlight to 
 all your weapons. Maybe the tension was decreased a little but it also relieved the annoying chore 
 of having to switch between gun and flashlight. So in my opinion it was worth it.
  
  Also this game pulls the same tricks on your again and again. Namely zombies popping out very small, 
 empty closet-like rooms. When you get close enough a little door slides up revealing a room just 
 large enough for one zombie to come stepping out (usually too quiet for you to take notice unless 
 you happen to be looking that particular direction) . This happens over and over again. My question 
 is, How did those zombies get in all those little rooms in the first place? 
  
  Another trick that is done repeatedly is the open door, monster-in-your-face trick, which basically 
 involves finding a monster on the other side of a door a split second away from jumping at you. 
 The first time you see this itll probably make you jump. But after the fifth or sixth time youll 
 be able to shoot is dead before its feet even leave the floor. 
  
  One thing I noticed while playing Doom3 was that my motivation to finish the game was waning. To 
 help pick up the pace a little I just enabled the give all cheat to give myself all the weapons 
 and ammo. Now some people dont like doing this because it takes away the challenge and most of 
 the time I would agree with that. But Doom3 was getting too old too fast so I just made it easy 
 on myself by enabling the cheats. It did help. I liked blasting the monsters with guns that I wasnt 
 supposed to have yet. So if any of you get tired of playing before the game is over, just drop 
 down the console and type give all. That will help with game pacing.
  
  One thing I found odd in the game was the idea that in 2145 people would still be using email (for 
 those of us who don't add well it's 141 years from now) . If this is the case, man sure hasn't progressed 
 much. Also I didn't understand the reason why the main character in Doom3 never turned into a zombie 
 when mostly everyone else did.
  
  Now for the things I liked:
  
  Of course youve heard how good looking this game is. Even the people that rip this game apart 
 have to admit that. Putting aside game play, sound, and all the other attributes of the game I 
 think that the graphics alone justify buying it. There are a ton of nice touches that make you 
 stop in your tracks and just stare for a while. 
  
  Also I did like the level design. I think Doom3 does a good with the detail in the environment. 
 No two rooms or areas are the same. And theres lots of detail everywhere. I do wish there were 
 some larger areas though. Most of the rooms were fairly small and cramp. But I guess that makes 
 sense since youre on another planet. 
  
  Another small touch that I really enjoyed were the voice logs you find on the dead bodies. These 
 logs give the information in the weeks leading up to the attack. Although a lot of it is useless 
 information the actors that do the voice work are very convincing. 
  
  So thats it. Now that Ive beaten the game Im not sure what Ill do with it. Thank heavens they 
 released the dev tools for it. Hopefully someone will create a really cool mod for it that will 
 give it more replay value. Until then its going up on my played-once shelf next to Far Cry (see 
 also my Far Cry review) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigMelon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 17, 2004 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 successfully sets the new standard for presenting a texture/atmosphere to the gamer. With 
 the right combination of gameplay and visuals, D3 presents the original idea of horror and fear 
 without the interference of other in-game extras.
  
  Slowing down the gameplay of the gamer had a double impact on the gaming community that was either 
 enjoyed or hated. This "slow down" was done by the small confining spaces and the almost hard to 
 notice slower running speed of the main character. Doing so effectively creates the situation where 
 you are surrounded by several enemies and are dependent on the  
 method. This is where the gaming community splits into the love/hate opinion of the game.
  
  Those that were the first to experience Doom should expect the old school feel of the first 
 person shooter revived with a more advanced game environment that creates a real-to-life horror 
 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aditya
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 17, 2004 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I just completed the game in veteran level. It was quite immersive and frankly brings the honesty 
 of ID. They claimed that it is a re-write of original DOOM and thats exactly what it is. It has 
 been enhanced with a little decent story-line but finally it is bang-bang all the way. I was hoping 
 of some new addition, silly me !!
  
  After playing so many other games, getting back a super shotgun was a real welcome. I was kinda 
 missing it since Doom days. It really makes the game fun. In fact I managed to kill all the monsters 
 with the shotgun except the bosses. The hell knight takes exactly 8 good shots to kill :) The tenticle 
 soldier could be avoided with ducking and then giving it 2 good shots :) I feel the shotgun experience 
 itself was enough for the money which I paid. :) :)
  
  Graphics was good, cannot say excellent. Unfortunately I have played on 640x480 resolution so I 
 cannot say a lot about it. Anyway, I plan an upgrade so I guess I can play the nightmare level 
 atleast in 1024x768.
  
  Overall the game is quite immersive. It forces you to go slow so thats what I did. I took my time 
 in exploring every tiny nook and corner. That helped me in staying alive and collect lot of goodies 
 found around the corner. In fact, this strategy optimized my ammunition usage. I was always full 
 in ammunition and had to leave most of it without using in storage.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeykneb
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2004 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is visually stunning.... never before have I seen such detailed graphics in a living 
 environment. Everything looks beautiful, from the imps to the control panels. The gameplay too 
 is quite good, with responsive controls and intuative button layouts. It's too bad the sound and 
 the actual game were only mediocre. After a while the "check corner with flashlight, back off, 
 switch to gun, shoot monster" script gets old. Even with the flashlight on gun and enhanced sounds 
 mods, it still gets pretty routine after a while. My favorite thing is to summon the sentry (or 
 sentries) to follow you around and help kill the baddies. After a while, I had to shut this off 
 and boot up Call of Duty to get my blood flowing again. Sure, there are a few mess your shorts 
 moments and some creepy stuff, but too few to really keep me going. It's a shame too... with such 
 a beautiful game, one would have expected an equally beautiful game experience. Old school shooters 
 are fine, but this seems like an all out effort on the look without much thought on new and innovative 
 gameplay. Oh well... atleast I have United Offensive on the way, Half Life 2 is coming soon (Right?!?) 
 and F. E. A. R. and Brothers in Arms is coming out next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimberWolf_CLT
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 16, 2004 12:15 am PT
Review:  I just have to voice my frustration with reviewers that are whining that DOOM3 is "just a remake" 
 of the original DOOM. They go on to complain that it doesn't do anything to expand the genre and 
 plays like the original game. 
  
  Huh? 
  
  Maybe IQs have dropped in the reviewer community but I'm pretty sure the title has the word "DOOM" 
 in it. Of COURSE it plays like DOOM. It's SUPPOSED to play like DOOM. All along ID has positioned 
 it as such and only touted the new graphics/sounds etc as being the enhancements.
  
  Personally, I think that they hit the mark pretty well. I'm having a "hell" of a lot of fun playing 
 it (for the 3rd time) .
  
  So, reviewers, how about adding a rating category concerning "delivers what was promised"?
  
 
  Just my humble opinion...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trisjules
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2004 11:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything I want in a shooter. I am play mostly FPS games, and this one grabbed me (literally) 
 right off the bat. 
  
  Of course the first thing you see is the graphics. Visually, this game is flawless. Also, the sound 
 compliments it totally. Especially if you can hook it up to a surround sound system. Ours is in 
 a home theater.
  
  Holy crap.
  
  The feeling that the game gives off is unmistakeable. I am terrified when I play this game. Granted, 
 this game should never be played until well after dark. 11:00 to 2:00. It keeps you in a tension 
 that you can't break free from. The suspense is amazing.
  
  I have not played a game this well put together since the SNES days. If your system can handle 
 it (it's a fairly demanding game) you won't be sorry. Especially if you are an FPS fan.
  
  Don't miss this game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythoras
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2004 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first this game has a great gameplay it's unique to every single FPS i played (i played alot) .
 
  
  As for the graphics, ID did a great job with the realtime lightning and stuff, normal mapping etc. 
 so the graphics are wonderfull
  
  The sound really freaked the sh*t out of me, so playing this game on a 6.1 surround rocks :p
 
  
  Value: if you want to see all the great stuff don't finish this game in like 10 hours, you have 
 like 30 hours of gameplay so that's enough
  
  Well this game survived his hype and kept his glory :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: child1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 14, 2004 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the best out of all the doom games. There is so much to it that makes it so good, including 
 the graphics and sound, and the spooky gameplay. The graphics are probably the best ive ever seen, 
 and the games general atmosphere is just something that most games cant reach. Just because Doom 
 3 has great graphics, sound, and storyline, doesnt mean that its very different from the original 
 doom games. In fact, its quite similar, since the gameplay is extremely similar to the original 
 doom games. Once you get used to playing the game, you get the feeling that this is really doom, 
 and more of doom.
  
  Some people dont like how the gameplay is similar to classic shooters, but i value that. I like 
 the doom tradition and the demons of the game. Doom is one of those great games out there that 
 should be bought by any gamer, regardless of genre lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 13, 2004 7:55 am PT
Review:  After a lengthy four-year development cycle, the long-awaited Doom 3 is finally here. What started 
 as a game designed to push the limits of the GeForce 3 is now a game that will push the limits 
 of even the newest graphics cards on the market today. In fact, it is a game so technically advanced 
 that the Ultra-High graphics setting is designed for cards that dont yet exist!
  
  But, while theres no denying that Doom 3 is a technical marvel, it must be said that the game 
 does leave a bit to be desired in the gameplay department. And though the campaign is quite longon 
 the order of 15 hours or soby the end of the game, youll probably be ready for the game to end.
 
  
  Doom 3 is a loose retelling of the first game in the series, set in the future in a research facility 
 on Mars. The ultra-powerful Union Aerospace Corporationor UAChas developed a mammoth research 
 facility on the Red Planet, centered around an ancient archeological site, where incredible evidence 
 of a remarkably advanced species is being uncovered. Of course, the UACs interests are not just 
 archeological: the facility is also preoccupied with weapons research, military training, and teleportation 
 technology.
  
  At the head of the facility is Malcolm Betruger, a brilliant but shady figure thirsty for power. 
 The UACs archeological digs have uncovered a portal into another dimension full of fire, brimstone, 
 and demons. Multiple military expeditions to this site have resulted in the vast majority of soldiers 
 going insane, or committing suicide. Has Betruger become one of the insane?
  
  When contact is lost with a key researcher on the base, youa nameless marineare assigned for 
 a solo mission to find and recover the scientist. But, before you can save the day, something very 
 bad happens, and literally all Hell breaks loose. Within minutes, most of the base is overrun with 
 the undead and demons from another dimension.
  
  Separated from your team, you begin a fight for your life, and ultimately the lives of everyone 
 on Earth.
  
  So lets get one thing out of the way: Doom 3 looks phenomenal, and the designers did a superb 
 job of creating an environment that feels ominous and alive. The textures in the game are ultra-detailed, 
 featuring a great deal of bump-mapping to add a great deal of depth to the scenery. The lighting 
 (or lack thereof in some areas) helps to create a claustrophobic air of uncertainty, as you never 
 know what may be hiding in the shadows. Likewise, the special effects, like the warping of scenery 
 through hot air or thick glass, really adds a degree of polish rarely seen before.
  
  The enemies and other characters, with only a few exceptions, look phenomenal, and with the inclusion 
 of rag-doll physics, they animate quite well both in life and death.
  
  But that is not to say the graphics arent without fault. For one, while most of the models in 
 the game have a seamless hi-poly appearance, other characters that you see in still shots have 
 obvious flaws. Case in point are the supporting human characters and the imps, who have peaked 
 and pointed heads. Funny how all the pipes in the game are rounded, but a head looks like its 
 made of 6 polygons. Of course, there is a user-created mod to fix this, but still its a little 
 odd that it comes out of the box with such a glaring flaw.
  
  In addition, there are a few compatibility issues with graphics cards, which have yet to be addressed. 
 I played this game with both a GeForce Ti4600 and a Radeon 9800XT, and I had issues with both. 
 On the lower-end GeForce, without warning, everything but the light halos would cut out, forcing 
 a restart each time. Being an older card, I could understand. But, what I found really upsetting 
 is that the game was almost worse on the Radeon. At least with the 9800XT models, there is a snow 
 artifact that permeates the game. Especially noticeable in the dark areas of red-lit levels, there 
 is a great deal of speckling of red and white dots. Despite multiple fixes, and continued support 
 from Activision, this problem persists. Its very annoying.
  
  But, compatibility issues aside, the question that is on everyones mind when it comes to graphics 
 is, will I have to upgrade to play this game? The answer: not necessarily. One of the truly remarkable 
 things about ids engine is that it scales very well to a wide variety of system specs. Even on 
 lower quality settings, the game looks phenomenal. The differences between the lowest settings 
 and the higher settings are very subtle, and it will take a discerning eye to distinguish the difference 
 at first glance.
  
  In essence, if youre thinking of upgrading just for Doom 3, its not necessary. Only if you absolutely 
 want to see every special effect and piece of window dressing should you upgrade to a newer card, 
 but it doesnt change the gameplay.
  
  In the sound department, the game is no slouch, but its not all it could have been. The music 
 in the game is sparse, and consciously so, so its tough to say anything more. The voice acting 
 in the game is uniformly excellent, made even better by convincing sci-fi dialogue. However, its 
 the ambient sounds that make the game, and everything, from the hum of machinery, the sounds of 
 footsteps beyond, to the strange voices calling out to you, really immerse you in a terrifying 
 game world.
  
  Perhaps the only complaint that could be lodged against the sound is that the weapons sound incredibly 
 underpowered, somethingagainthe mod community has tried to remedy.
  
  But all the presentation in the world means very little without good gameplay, and its in this 
 respect that Doom 3 is somewhat of a disappointment. Thats not to say the game plays poorly, its 
 just that the gameplay isnt even a fraction as innovative as the graphics, and unfortunately relies 
 upon tired old conventions of game design.
  
  Doom 3 is a rather linear game, which isnt all bad if its done well. Here, it is done decently. 
 The base youre exploring is huge, and the levels are laid out in a way to give you some sense 
 of freedom, but seldom will you get too far in the wrong direction without a locked door or some 
 otherworldy tentacle blocking your path. As one would expect, then, much of the design involves 
 key-hunting. However, there are moments when you are forced to backtrack, and new avenues open 
 up when a demon smashes through a wall, or an elevator collapses. There are a few areas where you 
 must solve a puzzle to proceed, and they range from decent (the loading dock canister puzzle) to 
 somewhat tedious (the maintenance tram) .
  
  Doom 3 is a game full of startles and scares, and during the first half of the game, it keeps you 
 on your toes. Reach for a simple object, and suddenly, something leaps out of the dark. Its shocking 
 the first few times it happens. But, the element of surprise is so overutilized in the game that 
 once you get about halfway through, you become immune to the scares, because theyre so incredibly 
 predictable.
  
  Combat in the game is generally enjoyable, though it wears a little thin. The monster set is fairly 
 limited, so youll find yourself fighting the same things over and over again. The AI is decent, 
 and some of the more human enemies will use cover, and try to draw you away from your hiding 
 spot. But, there is little in the way of teamwork. About the closest the AI gets to teamwork is 
 having the enemy swarm you. But, since your enemies are zombies and demons, it would make sense 
 that they lack a great deal of intelligence.
  
  The combat is also somewhat marred by the weapons. Theres nothing new in this game you havent 
 seen in any of the other Doom games, with the exception of a weapon you obtain late in the game. 
 Only, the problem is that unlike previous Doom games, the weapons in Doom 3 are imbalanced and 
 often useless. The shotgun proves to be the ideal weapon, with enough ammo and firepower to get 
 the job done. The other weapons, however, are not as balanced. The machine gun is underpowered, 
 the plasma is too slow to use at a distance, the pistol requires you to fully empty a clip to down 
 an enemy, and the chaingun has a woefully low ammo capacity. The explosive weapons are all but 
 useless, as most of the combat takes place in tight corridors, and since they carry a lot of splash 
 damage, using an explosive is suicide.
  
  One of the most controversial design elements is the flashlight issue. Much of the game is so dark, 
 that you need to carry a flashlight. Only thing is, you cant wield a light and a gun at the same 
 time. This, however, becomes a problem, because youll find yourself firing shots into the dark, 
 hoping to hit something. And strangely enough, even though the game features advanced lighting 
 effects, the muzzle flashes on the weapons are practically nonexistent!
  
  The mod community has produced a handful of mods to address this gameplay element. Some mods add 
 lights to the guns, which makes the game easier. My preferred fix was to download a mod that added 
 better muzzle flashes, and then map the flashlight to the second mouse button. This allows an experience 
 more like the designers intended. 
  
  The difficulty of the game is just right, and most players will find that the powerups are spread 
 ideally to rescue you from the brink of death after a brutal firefight. Only near the end does 
 the difficulty ramp up suddenly and without warning. Such a jump is very jarring and a bit frustrating.
 
  
  The story in the game is told through a combination of in-game cutscenes and audio communications. 
 The in-game cutscenes are short, but well-done, offering just enough to keep the story going. The 
 story is given depth by a series of e-mails and audio logs left behind by the dead denizens of 
 the base. In this regard, the storytelling is a bit reminiscent of System Shock 2, which employed 
 this technique with a bit greater effect.
  
  The level design is very good. The earlier levels give you a great feel for what the base has to 
 offer, and its interesting to see how they get demolished by the minions of Hell when you make 
 your way through them again. However, after a while, it all seems very mundane. Near the end, however, 
 as the line between Hell and Mars gets more blurred, the level design really comes into its own, 
 and it truly starts to become creepy. In fact, the level design in the later levels is so good, 
 that youll wish they had started to incorporate some of the design choices sooner in the game, 
 something which would have been very plausible.
  
  All in all, Doom 3 is a beautiful, but flawed game. If youre looking for something to show your 
 console-loving friends why the PC is the king of all game platforms, then Doom 3 will serve as 
 a marvelous showcase for the sheer processing power of the PC. But, if youre looking for the next 
 Half-Life, well wait for the next Half-Life.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustaGuy2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2004 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3
  
  Take Doom 3 and few graphic enhancing steroids and youll get a game thatll scare the fear right 
 out of you. Without the amazing graphics Doom 3 is pretty much a replica of the old Doom games 
 made in the early 90s. With a mediocre story line and a few more extras Doom 3 is a great game 
 to play.
  Just like the early Doom games Doom 3s setting is based on Mars. Upon arriving at the UAC base 
 you can tell the environment is dark and luminous. Just having lights flicker or just go out will 
 have you on the edge of your seat wondering where the enemy is coming from. Electrical wires and 
 other objects will be making noises and having your hand develop carpal tunnel from moving that 
 mouse back and forth. 
  At the start of the game you are a lone marine just arriving at the base. You really have no idea 
 why your there. For a little while everyone is still alive and you can mingle with other marines 
 or scientists. The PDA that you are equipped will let acquire and store all your information. Including 
 weapons, missions, and other workers e-mails and voice messages which will help you complete the 
 game.
  The weapons in Doom 3 are great. There just like the original weapons from Doom. Including the 
 shotgun, mini gun, and the chain saw. The plasma rifle is also a gun that you will fall in love 
 with. The flashlight that you are equipped with will also provide aid in the darkness. With the 
 dark environments you will be switching back and forth between your gun and flashlight religiously. 
 With a button that will switch between the guns and flashlight it doesnt get annoying. 
  With the new graphics engine the enemies look fantastic. Doom 3 still has all the original enemies 
 from the older Doom. The imps, zombies, and some awesome bosses will have you drooling all over 
 your keyboard wondering how they look so detailed. The intelligence of the AI is that of a Civil 
 War soldier, just charge at the enemy. What can you expect from the spawn of hell though? A few 
 of the enemies have techniques that they wont use against you. Youll see imps crawling on walls 
 but when they come after you they just charge and throw easily dodgeable fireballs. Surprise attacks 
 will also be making you pause the game and go change your pants.
  The audio in Doom 3 is best played over 5.1 Dolby Surround Sound. When your sitting in the dark 
 and your hearing the whispers of people screaming from every direction the game will just be even 
 scarier. The audio is also realistic for the weapons and environments that you play in. Other workers 
 and scientists that are trapped will also call out for help. Saving them will normally get you 
 extra equipment or maybe a little side mission.
  The missions that you must complete in the game are received over a radio from your head marine. 
 The missions will consist of you calling for reinforcements or just making it to certain spots 
 in the base. Now and then youll escort lost scientists that are scared. Certain equipment will 
 also needed to be operated to get in a room. Picking up toxic barrels with a crane and depositing 
 them will be one that you encounter. Normally the missions in Doom 3 will be straight forward.
 
  Overall Doom 3 is graphically the best pc game out there right now. For the gamers that want to 
 relive the game play of the classic Doom this game if for you. Doom 3 shows that graphics are part 
 of the game but so is the game play. With its great graphics and exceptional game play Doom 3 is 
 a pc game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 12, 2004 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is great despite some missing design elements; id should have included lean left and 
 right moves (id are you listening... game needs a patch) , and as it takes place in the 22nd century 
 there certainly should have been more advanced weapons, the pistol, machine gun (assault refle 
 equivilent really) , shotgun, and plasma rifle should all have had flashlights ON THEM (at least 
 the mod community has looked out for us on that score) . Also, a 22nd century issue-why isn't their 
 any thermal/night vision for the dark areas (of course there's only a few of them! LOL!) 
  
  OK..... enough nit picking; I did say this game is great. Stellar graphics; just don; t expect 
 to see them without some serious hardware horsepower to make them happen at a "decent" fram rate! 
 id's claim for minimum and recommended specs are pretty optimistic in my opinion; though there's 
 no arguing the eye candy is top notch if your rig allows you to run run Doom3 at the graphic settings 
 it deserves. Not scary as some have said? I don't think so, turn up your 5.1s and play in the dark 
 and you'll be wishing YOU had a flashlight to look around to make sure it's still your game room! 
 LOL! The game play (saving Mars by yourself) may be old school, but it's the same style of game 
 play in Far Cry, and there's little argument how great that is. If you crave team based AI support, 
 choose a different game. However you slice it-Doom3 is a big graphics step forward; with state 
 of the art sound effects, and is held back by only a few niggling defects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clarkf1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 12, 2004 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I have loved it ever since the first screenshots came out all those months ago. 
 I can't remember awaiting a game this eagerly ever and boy did it deliver.
  Stupendous graphics especially the lighting and the monsters.... well, they must have some weird 
 minds to come up with concepts like those in the game.
  The weapons are superb, the only downside being having to switch between the flashlight and the 
 weapon of choice. As monsters jump out from behind you, even from where you've just been and though 
 it was safe, this can cause inevitable health damage, but already the modders have been at work 
 and a small download added a flashlight to my weapons.
  
  Okay, hands up, I've not reached the end, I've only reached about half-way I believe, but so far 
 so good. 
  
  This game has to be bought 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caymus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 12, 2004 6:44 am PT
Review:  This was a great game!! Graphics were incredible - and a couple of times it scared the bejeezers 
 out of me!! Best played at night in a dark room with no lights on!! Storyline? Not much to tell 
 - and having to leave the game to go out to a web site to find a code for a storage locker was 
 about the lamest thing I can think of!!! Talk about taking the gamer out of the experience!! Other 
 than some minor nagging complaints though it is a great ride!! The effort and work put into this 
 game should be totally commended - you can tell these guys love what they do!!! They are true artists 
 (with sick minds?!?!?) some of the stuff in here was pretty gross!!! I loved it!! I am glad I got 
 this game for $37 bucks though and not as soon as it came out for $55 - I think I might've felt 
 a little jipped!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megazorro1615
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2004 6:15 pm PT
Review:  first of all elt me start off by saying that i wasnt very satisfied with the score Doom 3 got for 
 gamespot, i frankly was waiting for something better, i played the game, it rocks, however seeing 
 that gamespot gave it a 8.5, i guess they dont really know what they are missing, so any ways, 
 here my review of the beauty thats is doom 3. monsters a definite 10 out 10, missions a definite 
 10 out of 10, weapons a definite 10 out of 10, environment and surroundings is a definite 10 out 
 of 10 and finally the most important aspect of all, character and entire gameplay is a definite 
 10 out of 10 without a doubt. this game rules in my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 11, 2004 3:09 am PT
Review:  While Id software's 1993 magnum Opus Doom didn't invent the First person shooter genre, it is the 
 game that launched a thousand rockets so to speak. And now here we are eleven years after Id unleashed 
 Hell on the Hard disk and the remake Doom 3 rolls around after a long development period. And I've 
 got to say that this is one of the best First Person Shooters that I've played this year, or any 
 year for that matter. In classic Id Style it doesn't try to reinvent the wheel, but rather tries 
 to make wheels that are better than the ones everyone else has been using. A disclaimer up front, 
 I like first person shooters and everything i say comes from the perspective that when well crafted 
 a firefight is intriscally entertaining. 
  
  The story to this game is only a hair more complicated than the story for the original Doom. Scientists 
 are working on some stuff that maybe they shouldn't on their Mars base and they unleash Hell on 
 the Mars Base. It does have a few decent surprises toseed into the games second half. But more 
 or less the story is more about setting the mood than it is about story telling. Your main character 
 is a Marine who is just arriving on Mars, and he doesn't even have a name rather he's called Marine 
 throughout the whole game. 
  
  Okay but enough about the story, the first thing you're gonna notice about this game is it looks 
 absoultely drop dead gorgeous, no better than you think better than you've been told. . IT really 
 does just look amazing. The player models look pretty darn good the mars base looks astonishing, 
 particuarily the lighting as lights flicker on and off. I played this game on medium detail @ 1024*768 
 and my somewhat mid-range system never chugged so that the game wasn't fun to play with the settings. 
 The base is also a really visually creepy place to look at, their is all sorts of wicked stuff 
 all over teh place from blood all over the walls with nothing even around, satanic symbology such 
 as the inverse pentagram, etc. The monsters all spawn in with this rather cool glyph effect. Oh 
 yeah and the monsters, well they look really amazing too. From babies with hornet stingers, spiders 
 with heads and big bad demons the enemies all just look like something rather wicked. Maybe not 
 as scary looking as i'd like but they're extremelly good looking none the less.
  
  Even more important to this game being awesome are the sound effects. They're creepy, i mean really 
 really creepy. Throughout the game you're hearing stuff that will that just got on my nerves, and 
 i mean that in a good way. I was always playing the game and hearing things that were getting my 
 adrenilene running. Some of the stuff that really got me was the sound of someone crying quite 
 often or the sounds of suffering. The monsters all make some pretty distinct sounds so sometimes 
 you can tell what your facing before you can see what you're facing. 
  
  Then their is the gameplay which has been the most controversial element of Doom 3. Some people 
 aren't going to like it, as in the ends this is for all intents and purposes a corridor shooter, 
 You're never really choosing the direction you just run down the next corridor in an entirely linnear 
 fashion. You'll need to stop and look around quite often for a few reasons. For one the game is 
 dark so you'll need to draw a flashlight almost all the time and then switch back to your gun when 
 enemies come out. If this bothers you like it did me you can easily download a mod titled the Duct 
 tape mod which gives your primary weapons a light attached to them. But even still you'll want 
 to use the light quite often. Also this game is very scripted, you'll walk into a room and you'll 
 find some kind of invisble trigger that brings out monsters. I never have been very good at deciphering 
 those patterns so i found the spawning quite unpredictable but if you're good at deciphering patterns 
 like that it may be boring for you. For my part however this worked to keep me on edge throughout 
 most of the game, in fact right up until about the 5/7ths mark of the game i was quite tense as 
 i went through every level rather nervous. On the other hand this game gives you a good sense of 
 the "close call" firefight as their are lots of them that it's designed for you to have just enough 
 if you're intelligent about it to get through to the next part of the game . One thing that i liked 
 that was it was a sort of longer than average single player game It ran close to twenty hours and 
 don't think any of the levels were particuarily bad. One little innovation i want to talk about, 
 Id proved their point, you don't need a use button in a single player FPS. The context sensitive 
 mouse is just great. when you walk up to something you want to use you just look at it and click 
 on it and it does what you need it to do. I can't believe someone didn't think of this sooner. 
 
  
  As much as i sort of loathe to do it i've got to do a bit of complaining. The multiplayer for this 
 game really isn't anything special. It's got Deathmatch for up to 4 players out of the box but 
 some server ops have figured a way around this and i've seen 32 player servers up and running. 
 However the 2 games of DM i tried were rather laggy and really weren't anything to write home about. 
 However i do leave some hope that Ids mod making community may put something together that's a 
 lot of fun but as of now their just isn't much here. The Boss Fights are a bit too damn easy, i 
 only had to do any of them two times including the games uber-final boss which is one of the most 
 visually splendid i've ever seen in any game . (in fact all 4 bosses look pretty badass) Their 
 isn't a wowing AI at work here, but should zombies and low level demons really be all that smart? 
 I'm not sure i can dock them that much on this one but i'm certain someone would. And oh yeah it 
 has a few sort of annoying jumping puzzles that were both rather stupid.
  
  All in all their are going to be some people who'll have legitimate reasons not to like this game, 
 the story or the old school style. But if you llike me enjoy Single player First person shooters 
 this is a exceptional one that's a great deal of fun to play. If you fall into that camp then you 
 won't go wrong picking up Doom 3, it's one of the best i've played in at least one year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_monty
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 10, 2004 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I've been a Doom fan since the begining and have been patiently waiting for the arrival of Doom 
 3. When I finally installed and began to play Doom 3 I began to realize this game was going to 
 set new standards for first person shooters. Three words: AWESOME, SLICK, and SCARY !! This game 
 will spook you many, many times as you run, hide, shoot and crouch. It's an experience unlike anything 
 I have ever encountered in a computer game. It's that good. If you play this game in the dark.... then 
 BEWARE !! 
  Doom 3 ran smooth as silk on my system. I have a 2.4GHZ Dell with 512mb RDRAM with a GeForce FX 
 5600 Ultra 128mb. I had it running on medium quality at 1024x768. Awesome !! Ok, now for the negative: 
 I really don't have any except the game is chock full of satanic symbols and hellishness which 
 contributes to the games scary factor. And it works. And some of the boss fights are hard. The 
 end is... WOW!! That's all I will write. You gotta see it to believe it. 
  
  Monty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_Poulin
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  With all the hype surrounding the game and franchise, this is one of the best example of a disappointing 
 sequel. id software clearly went for the formula that put them and the fps genre on the map but 
 it all feels like it's been done before.
  
  Now the graphics are astounding, no one's gonna deny that but... you get used to them. Bumpmapping 
 and shadows are great but they are demanding in terms of perfomance and because of this the polygon 
 count had to be cut down and it really sticks out. The new technology for the GUIs also is really 
 sharp, literally. It's a fresh change from blurry, static computer screens and displays in games 
 of the past and hopefully will set a new trend in first person shooters.
  
  In terms of technology, this game is great but the rest doesn't shine as well. Doom 3 hits its 
 peak very early on in terms of gameplay. The zombies and monsters simply are too easy to kill (the 
 zombies should be alowed to come back to life) . It's hard to imagine just how these guys could 
 wipe out an entire facility of battle-hardened marines. And a stupid AI is a very big problem when 
 all you do for the first four hours is shoot down zombies and imps. The latter which will seldom 
 perform more complicated moves than throw a fireball at you (which are quite easy to dodge) . It 
 would have been much more fun to see the imps go for the shadows and climb onto the ceiling to 
 attack you from behind. Since most of the levels are shrouded in darkness, it would be frightening 
 to have a much more interesting fight with every monster where they can really scare the crap out 
 of you. Feeling at the mercy of a NPC is much more scarier than blasting it through the forehead 
 with a shotgun. This sort of behavior for the bigger enemies would be great as well - Pinkies would 
 ram doors and come through the walls for example.
  
  The greatest part of the game are the scripted sequences. I don't want to spoil the fun for you 
 but one of the first monster's introduction is by far the best moment in any recent first person 
 shooter. Some of them are frightening - for example, you run into a control booth with a glass 
 viewport to a pitch black room and an imp is grabbing onto the glass on the exterior, snarls at 
 you and proceeds to jump into the darkness. These moments are superb but... there aren't enough! 
 Had there been more and more of these moments as the game went along, it definitely would have 
 made the last 2/3 of the game more interesting. There are many scripted events in the late portion 
 of the game but they are all the same: you walk into a room, pick up a medkit or something and 
 then four monsters spawn into the room. This repeated event quickly becomes boring and annoying.
 
  
  One part of the game that suprised me was the storyline. I believe they hired a professional writer 
 for this game and it shows. Of course I won't tell you what the story is, but let me just say it's 
 on par with many good sci-fi movies out there. However, I would have liked it if there was an extended 
 outdoor level in the game to use the nightmarish marsian landscape to its full effect and give 
 a little break from the endless stream of dark corridors.
  
  Doom 3 is a relatively good game but for the time id had to work on it and the amount of talent 
 they have, this game clearly fails on its promises. With more interesting monsters and levels, 
 this game could have set the standard as the original did a decade ago; but as it stands now, the 
 franchise is clearly a dinosaur in terms of entertaining the player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamer13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2004 3:30 am PT
Review:  This game has me totally hooked. I have never been so excited about playing a game since Half Life. 
 Doom 3 has it all, great graphics, great sound, great story (which is surprising for a game by 
 Id) , and just great solid overall gameplay. There were many moments where I just jumped out of 
 my seat. The creators did a great job creating a sense of danger and this game keeps you on pins 
 and needles throughout. Definately worth the wait. My only complaint is that some boss mobs were 
 a much tougher relative to other creatures encountered. But everything was perfectly balanced. 
 It was great to use a BFG again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2004 2:57 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a true oldschool shooter. You run around in this massive dark research center and kill 
 hells minions. On any other graphics engine this game would have been a huge let down. The graphics 
 engine alone is worth the buy. The mods that will spring from this game will make it worth the 
 50 or so bucks you will pay. As for the multiplayer it was a big letdown. Besides being very pretty 
 to look at you find yourself running around and shooting that anything moves. And this is fun if 
 i were stoned everytime I play but im not so unless mods add some variables and different forms 
 of multiplayer (i. e. coop) the online play will disapear in a month or 2. To keep it short Doom 
 3 is worth the buy for the engine and cool environments but beyond that you just hope people take 
 the engine and make some good mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roughneck
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 8, 2004 12:11 am PT
Review:  If you're an avid shooter fan, you'd be insane to pass up this latest gem from Carmack + Co. The 
 latest entry in the Doom series doles out the awe, fear, fun and sweat in equal measures. But ultimately, 
 when faced with a "been there, done that" storyline (no small wonder since it's a rehash of the 
 previous two titles) , I was left with nothing more than a deeply interactive screensaver to show 
 off to friends.
  
  Make no mistake: Doom 3 may very well become the de facto standard for single-player run-'n'-gun 
 FPS titles in 2004. But if you like your shooters with a side helping of tactical finesse, character-driven 
 storylines, or option-packed multiplay, you'll find yourself sorely disappointed.
  
  Buy it for the looks ... but you probably won't be playing it for life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charliepast
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2004 11:11 pm PT
Review:  One thing:
  this game would have been incredible if it has just a bit more originality and more varied gameplay.
 
  
  The start of the game was good... but as you go you see that the game play just copies over and 
 over again and the A. I. wasn't very good. And what in god's name is the freakin' imp spawning behind 
 you thing. God.
  
  The graphics are awesome, the sound is great but the multiplayer is terrible and the game is too 
 easy. Overall this game could have been so much more and i thought it would be much better. Meh.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuDaDJ
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 7, 2004 8:09 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the latest installment in the series of first person shooters from id that revolutioned 
 first person shooters just over a decade ago. The earlier Doom games were strictly fast paced affairs, 
 with killing hordes of monsters and not bothering to offer a compelling reason or story to go along 
 with the action. In the decade since, FPSes have become tried to become more and more immersive, 
 adding plotlines, scripted sequences, full motion video, in game cutscenes, and interactive environments. 
 With Doom 3, id software has tried to develop a modern FPS that is technically sound, but in doing 
 so, left out the fun that made their previous games legendary.
  
  You play the part of an unnamed space marine in the year 2145, sent to a United Aerospace Corporation 
 (UAC) base on Mars on a routine mission that quickly goes terribly wrong. As you play the game, 
 you'll notice there are more than a few passing similarities to Valve's Half Life. You're thrust 
 into a research facility when all of a sudden all hell breaks loose, you'll chat with surviving 
 scientists, you'll recover health from convenient health stations located throughout the levels, 
 you'll ride a monorail. The feeling you got from Half Life is all here. At the start of the game, 
 you are given a PDA, which allows you to download information from other scientists' PDAs and also 
 view video disks that you acquire throughout the game. The information you gain through the PDA 
 is at times valuable, which may include hints on your current objective, or allow you to open the 
 various weapon and health lockers you'll encounter. You'll proceed through the UAC base, most of 
 the time in dark areas, so, unlike most FPS games, you'll actually be using your flashlight a lot 
 to illuminate dark corners and hallways. A problem is that you can't hold your flashlight and another 
 weapon at the same time, which is a problem, since once you spot an enemy in a dark area, you won't 
 see it again once you decide to pull out your weapon to kill it. 
  
  For players who remember the earlier Doom games, you'll be treated to updated versions of enemies 
 and weapons. Nearly all of the original enemies are back, including imps, zombie soldiers, cacodemons, 
 demons, lost souls, mancubus, arch-vile, hell knights, and yes, the cyberdemon. However, they may 
 not resemble too closely what you remembered them. They seem to all have lost their bright colors, 
 and have all changed appearance drasticaly for the most part. All the old weapons are back, with 
 one serious omission. That means you'll have have the chainsaw, pistol, shotgun, chaingun, rocket 
 launcher, plasma gun, and the BFG9000. The one gun you'll miss is the double barreled super shotgun, 
 which was a blast to use. There are a couple new weapons, the standard FPS machine gun, and later 
 in the game, the powerful Soul Cube, in addition to your flashlight.
  
  Doom 3 does away with the style of its predecessors in deliberately slowing down gameplay and putting 
 you in close quarters. There really aren't any huge outdoor areas where you'll be endlessly blasting 
 monsters all around you while avoiding their attacks. There are intense battles, but they are over 
 fairly quickly. Even with all the new technology behind it, the gameplay of Doom 3 is as simplistic 
 as it gets. The levels are still very much linear, as you'll need to pick up X item or push Y button 
 to open Z door to proceed. For all the new graphics engine and technology in Doom 3, there is remarkably 
 little interactivity with your environment. Granted, the ability to break windows or blow up computers 
 serves no purpose in gameplay, but these little touches would be nice.
  
  Given that id's games are synonymous with no nonsense action, some gameplay elements introduced 
 in Doom 3 really don't jive. For example, for the first time in an id game, you'll be required 
 to reload your weapons. I don't mean the time in between shotgun blasts, but the time you'll spend 
 putting new shells/bullets in your gun. You can reload before you empty your clip/shells/cells, 
 but the fact that you HAVE to may seem a surprise to id veterans. Another noticeable change is 
 that there is no "always run" option, and you have a stamina meter, which limits how much you sprint. 
 Also annoying is that your view will radically alter if you take heavy damage. One second you're 
 looking forward with your shotgun trained on an imp, the next you're looking at the ceiling, making 
 it harder to shoot your enemies. Sadly, the old Doom powerups are nowhere to be found. There are 
 no cool light amplification goggles, radiation suits, invisibility, or invincibility powerups. 
 The berserk powerup a rare appearance, though.
  
  One of the biggest problems with Doom 3 is the lack of variety of game settings. Most of the game 
 takes place in the indoor UAC facility, and it's disappointing not to see more varied environments. 
 While the first few levels seem interesting, they blend into a series of forgettable similar levels. 
 Surprisingly, there is only one Hell level. And once you've finished the game, you'll get an unsatisfying 
 ending which doesn't shed light on the plot. Also, for all the hype about the graphics, there simply 
 isn't too much color to the game, as you'll remember most of the game in shades of black and white.
 
  
  If you're looking for a revolutionary FPS, Doom 3 isn't it. Even if you are an id fan, there's 
 nothing really captivating or fresh about Doom 3. It's a step backward in gameplay from modern 
 FPSes, yet lacks the fun of killing tons of monsters that the older Quake and Doom games offered. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miggl
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2004 7:06 am PT
Review:  Gameplay is the same as all the other Doom games in the series: somethign goes horribly wrong and 
 you're the mop-up crew destined to save earth from certain DOOM, hehe. The story is nothing new, 
 but the way its told has some very neat and new features. One of them being the in-game PDA that 
 will play back audio-logs that you gather up throughout the game, giving the overall story more 
 depth, as well as giving you clues to some bonus items here and there.
  
  The visuals are just amazing, I can't even begin to describe how good they are. even on fairly 
 mid-range systems, this game plays great in spite of all the graphical details! You seriously have 
 to see it to believe it. The videos don't do it justice. I seriously was jumping out of my seat 
 more than once due to the spooky environment.
  
  The audio goes hand-in-hand with the increadible graphics. It adds so much to the overall atmoshpere. 
 Oh, and make sure you enjoy it in surround sound! Muahaha :) 'Nuff said!
  
  For $55 bucks and 12 hours of game-play, not exactly a value. However, due to its revolutionary 
 nature in graphics, I thought it was worth it, also in part because I know there will be kick-ass 
 mods that will enhance the value of the game even further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felraiser
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 7, 2004 6:06 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is not a bad game. Anyone who says it is terrible is probably lashing out in a slightly 
 psychotic manner against the wave of reviewers who liken it to the second coming of Jesus. Both 
 ends of the spectrum are wrong here. This is a very solid game for precisely the reason why the 
 anti- Doom 3 camp lampoons it: there is very little original about this game. Basically everything 
 here has been done before, and thats not necessarily a bad thing or a good one. The only standout 
 portion of the game is what you see, and that is absolutely phenomenal. And to think, some games 
 of much lower graphical quality actually run slower on my PC (especially Halo) . Truly, what Id 
 has done with game engine technology should revolutionize the industry in terms of scalability 
 and visual detail. Id sadly seems to have spent a bit too much time on their brilliant technology, 
 though. In particular, immersiveness, interface, and multiplayer seem to have been thrown in rather 
 hurriedly. The sad thing about the games deficiencies, though, is that remedies to all of them 
 could easily be devised. For immersiveness, making the flashlight its own weapon was a bad move. 
 It makes no sense in the context of the year 2145, where plasma fire is fairly standard, ferrous 
 oxide is broken into highly useful components, and duct tape is reserved for the rich, evidently. 
 And it doesnt even help the gameplay out that much. A sense of anger, not fear, swept over me 
 as I attempted to switch to my shotgun for imp after imp behind me, cursing the Great Martian Duct 
 Tape Shortage of 2145 for such awkward moments. As for interface, the PDA appears to be yet another 
 graphically impressive yet fundamentally flawed decision. Who likes reading junk mail? I dont. 
 This is why the copious Hey, we fixed a pipe style e-mails and infuriating martianbuddy. com tripe 
 merely served to disappoint me. Again, the remedy is simple. Make a note log. This would be part 
 of your personal files on the PDA and would auto-update whenever you read, or better yet, received, 
 messages with locker codes or mission critical data, much like in the Splinter Cell series. Instead 
 of half-sleeping through the janitors audio log just to hear the code is 843, you could take 
 a short look/listen and read your log when you have to use a code. Simple. If Id had incorporated 
 this fix into the final product, I might have let some martianbuddy. com messages slip by. Finally, 
 there is another solution to the amazingly imbalanced multiplayer. The problem here is that you 
 start out with only a pistol, and the pistol is by far the worst weapon in the game (except against 
 Trites) . In a 1 v 1 game, first one to the chain gun, rocket launcher, or similarly dominant weapon 
 wins the first skirmish, and if they quickly get to the other player after they respawn (doing 
 so is easy on the small maps) there is no hope for their opponents. Simple solution: start everyone 
 out with a shotgun and machine gun with no pistol. Everyone has basic but powerful weapons then. 
 Well, that was a lot of complaining. But the fact is that none of these problems really hurt the 
 game that much. Doom 3 is a fun game based on tried-and-true methods than happens to have beautiful 
 graphics and aspirations for total immersion that are just a little beyond its reach. Thanks for 
 delivering a great game, Id. But I still hope the mod community can improve on the games many 
 minor flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_saker
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 6, 2004 10:05 pm PT
Review:  If you have been waiting for Doom 3 to make it to the shelf of your local game outlet for as long 
 as I have then you have already bought it and do not need to be reading this, otherwise read on.
 
  
  Over the years I have spent far too many hours playing Wolf 3D, Doom, Doom 2, Quake, ... you get 
 the picture. For me the release of Doom 3 was one of the biggest in recent memory, and I am pleased 
 to say that it does not disappoint, sure it is not does not have the online game that UT2004 has 
 to offer but this is not trying to be UT. The focus here is the offline game.... oh and the graphics!
 
  
  It would not be possible to review Doom 3 without mentioning the Graphics. On my machine it looks 
 great. On a machine bought specifically to run Doom (owned by a good friend) it is mind-blowing 
 (hence the 10, even though we all no that the graphics are not "perfect") . Nuff said.
  
  But enough about the graphics, if the game-play is no good the graphics are a moot point. Fortunately 
 I love the way Doom 3 plays, the atmosphere this game creates is great (especially if you have 
 surround sound) and the game is more than capable of making you jump (even though monsters can 
 only spawn behind you so many times before you start to anticipate it) , and to put it simply it 
 is fun. Blasting monsters has always been amusing, and this game helps prove that this is still 
 the case. It is good to see all the old weapons making appearances, but more new ones would not 
 have amiss. As with almost any game it is easy to point out its few shortcomings but that would 
 be missing the point as Doom 3 delivers exactly what it sets out to  a great FPS and the just 
 about the best looking game to date. 
  
  To sum up, if you are looking for a good online FPS get UT2004, if you want a good offline FPS 
 get Doom 3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  While this isn't a game I'll playing over and over, the time I did spend with it to finish was 
 pure horror shooting bliss. Was it worth more than $50? Probably not, but it's definitely worth 
 playing through to the end as the level design and enemy design really shines in the final few 
 hours of gameplay. It's a shame the entire game didn't have the same level of intensity as the 
 hell levels. Once you get to the good stuff, I felt much of the previous base levels were generic 
 filler levels that felt like you had to plow through rather than enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcorbin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 6, 2004 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome. The graphics are some the the best I have ever seen. One of the best things 
 about the game is the sound. Your walking slowly down a hall and you hearing all these scary noises 
 and you dont know whats around the corner. All the sudden BAM!!! Right in front of you as you go 
 arond the corner is an imp clawing at you while your trying to blast the demon in the head with 
 your shotgunt. The wepons are great ecspeacialy the shotgun which is my favorite weapon by the 
 way. plasma gun is second. Once you start playing this game you get addicted and the next thing 
 you know its 4 in the morning. and you have work at 7am. I highly recomment this game to anyone. 
 Get this game if you have the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bybeach
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 5, 2004 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Well, just finished Doom 3 on the G. S. suggested level, they were right about that, anything less, 
 prolly too easy. ThIs was hard enough, for now.
  
  Getting to point, I think Gamespot could of notched the score up a bit;.8.9 in my book, or even 
 a 9.0 for generosity. Still cannot figure how they rated GTA Vice City so high (9. something) , with 
 it`s so-so graphics. Never finished GTA-VC, after the fun missions.
  
  Doom3 kept my interest, and even riveted me at times. The corridor crawl bit, hopfully not a beaten 
 to death term now, was what this game was about. Why jerk the rug, others have done that already. 
 Instead, this game kept it`s sense of history, and then went over the top with it. Beautiful well 
 done graphics, with a sense of fairness (and sales) by an engine adaptable to what people have for 
 systems. Far Cry strained what I had a few times, least the cut scenes didn`t play well. But on 
 what I have (2.53, nvidia 4600ti, raid config.) , i did very well at at 1024X 768 resolution, medium 
 quality. Only a few slight slow-downs.
  
  I thought there was some decent implied drama here. The guy who comes out of nowhere and does the 
 job, is what I do believe they were trying for. If one scratched enough, an older game, System 
 Shock 2 starts to show some influence, sans RPG. Doom 3 also carries a story line, though I admit 
 ,not as well. It did for once allow survivors to communicate to. Overall , the story carried well 
 enough.
  
  Overall then, I simply rate this game higher than Gamespot. What they percieved the strengths to 
 be, I agree. What they determined the main weakness, the old style approach, I felt ID turned to 
 a puposful virtue also. In that laid the core of the gameplay, and intense it was! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dire_Weasel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 5, 2004 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Doom wasn't the first first person shooter, but it was the one that actually made the genre, one 
 of first "killer apps" for PC gaming when it was released. You play the marine, a silent grunt 
 with the ability to carry a dozen weapons and take unbelievable damage. The enemies you fight come 
 from the back of high-school notebook or a heavy-metal album cover, and consist of demons equipped 
 with futuristic technology.
  
  Doom 3 is essentially a remake of that game, and it retains the original's gameplay mechanics... 
 you progress through a maze, and creatures come at you from all sides, either by popping in, or 
 by appearing behind hidden panels. Combat strategy is pretty straightforward... you try and conserve 
 ammo, armor, and health, and you avoid damage from the enemy by strafing left and right, and, with 
 certain creatures, ducking. Keep the mouse cursor on the enemy and hold the fire button down with 
 the weapon of your choice. Kill the creatures that stand between you and the exit, and complete 
 the level.
  
  Almost all of the original monsters from Doom and Doom 2 are present, along with a few other new 
 creatures to round out the group. Seeing the new versions of the old monsters is a real treat for 
 players of the orignal game, as they all look fantastic now that they've been recreated in a modern 
 game. New players will probably be impresessed as well, though they might wonder exactly why they're 
 fighting a skeleton with rocket launchers strapped on its shoulders.
  
  There are a few additions to the gameplay. The "find the colored key" mechanic has been replaced 
 by the impressive, seamless interaction with the base's computer terminals, and the addition of 
 a PDA that holds your security clearances, e-mail, and audio and video logs.
  
  Sadly, there are also a few jumping puzzles... none of which are done particularly well. Luckily, 
 they're all confined to a single area of the game, and they aren't so annoying as to become frustrating. 
 They certainly don't add anything to the game, though.
  
  The biggest addition to the gameplay is the addition of a "light and darkness" mechanic. Many of 
 the levels, especially the earlier ones, are very poorly lit areas where it's simply impossible 
 to see the enemies without a light source. Your marine is provided with a flashlight that realistically 
 illuminates a tiny area, but you're unable to hold both a gun and the flashlight at the same time. 
 Therefore, you'll find yourself in the situation where you can either see your enemy, or shoot 
 at your enemy. All of the monsters in Doom 3 can see in the dark, of course, so if you don't quickly 
 find the monsters, you'll start taking damage as they attack you.
  
  It's not a very logical mechanic... why can't the marine simply carry the flashlight in his left 
 hand, or use some duct tape? But, really, it's all about establishing atmosphere for the game, 
 and it does this quite well. Those turned off by the darkness will be happy to know that the pitch 
 black scenes are mostly in the first half of the game, when the enemies are weaker and benefit 
 more from surprise than pure power. Many of the later levels don't require the flashlight at all, 
 and a few don't even provide it.
  
  Of course, the "light and darkness" mechanic wouldn't be possible at all without Doom 3's strongest 
 feature... its graphics. Doom 3 is undoubtably one of the best-looking video games ever made. It's 
 a technical marvel that allows detailed, realistic shadowing from multiple light sources to be 
 rendered in real time. The end result is stunning in motion... no other game has ever handled light 
 and shadow so realistically.
  
  Doom 3's environments and characters are limited in scope. The game is set in the claustrophobic 
 mars base, which, like many other games in the genre, borrows heavily from James Cameron's "Aliens". 
 The characters you encounter are either marines, scientists, or demons. Desplte the limited variety, 
 everything in the game is modelled and animated perfectly. Id did a fantastic job, and the game's 
 appearance is definitely its biggest strength.
  
  Surprisingly, Doom 3 also has an interesting plot... probably the first Id game to have one. The 
 plot is told by cut-scenes, video logs, and audio logs that you pick up as you play the game, much 
 like System Shock 2. The plot actually drives the game fairly well, and provides more motivation 
 than just to find the next exit and kill the next group of monsters.
  
  The audio is excellent, especially if you have a 5.1 surround system. It's almost possible to aim 
 at noisy creatures in the dark with the audio alone... it's extremely convincing. The voice acting 
 is very well-done and adds quite a bit to the game as well.
  
  The length of Doom 3 is also a positive... there are many levels, the levels are long, and have 
 good amount of variety. Doom 3 is at least 20 hours of gameplay the first time through, which gives 
 it an above average length for a modern first-person shooter.
  
  Strangely, the difficultly is surprisingly easy... ammo, health and armor are plentiful, and a 
 quick-save feature makes it easy re-try iany encounter f you don't like the outcome. After you 
 beat the game, you can unlock the "nightmare" difficulty level, in which your health automatically 
 counts down to 25, and where you start the game with the soulcube, an item that you don't normally 
 acquire until the last quarter of the game. It seems like a tacked-on feature, and not a very good 
 addition. Hopefully, quality user-created levels will begin popping up for download. The original 
 Doom had some truly incredible single-player levels that far exceeded the quality of Id's original 
 levels... it would be nice to see what the user community can produce.
  
  It must be said that first-person shooter gameplay has since evolved far beyond Doom. Some players 
 will undoubtably be turned off by finding that Doom 3's gameplay is essentially the same as the 
 first two games in the series. However, Doom 3's "old-school" gameplay, enhanced by superb sound, 
 a very serviceable plot, and some of the best graphics to appear in a video game, makes for a truly 
 excellent experience, and Id software's best game yet. It's an easy recommendation to fans of first-person 
 shooters, and especially to fans of the original Doom.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattman734
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 2, 2004 1:46 am PT
Review:  at first u will think this game is the best game ever but after a few levels u will be suprised 
 that it kinda gets old but the game looks really good and is very fun and has good technolagy well 
 the best. it is over all the best stress relaver of any game and has really good points to it but 
 also has some not so good points but if u wanted the game all along then its really a good buy 
 and will give u some scars that u wanted plus it loooksss really good but i dont think it looks 
 any better than far cry or something like tha but far cry looks really good so if u want it buy 
 it becasue its a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 1, 2004 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is finally here, and yet, no one seems to care. This is why companies need to know that 
 graphics are a small part of what makes a game great, its all in the gameplay. Doom 3 is a hit 
 and miss game the game fires for perfection, and misses cleanly making it no better then just good, 
 and after about an hour of play, its only ok. I dont have this game, my friend does, and he gave 
 it to me after he bought it cuz he told me it was crap, so i tried it, then gave it back and agreed. 
 There are some lag issues, and the gameplay is built off an engine that powered Doom 1, Doom 2, 
 and all teh Quake games. However, doom 3 just doesnt have the gameplay to do justice to its phenominal 
 prequels. Whereas Doom 3 will be remembered forever as a great game technially (graphic and sound 
 wise) the gameplay is often boring and redundant, and unless you have hours to spare and you have 
 worn UT 2004 to the core, then you will find that doom 3 is better as a collectors item then a 
 game. How fun can running down endless halls filled with blood be? alot more fun then doom 3 made 
 it, thats for sure. Doom 3 deserves a look, a short one though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oDARKBLADEo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 1, 2004 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 has a whole lot going for it, and a whole lot going against it. For one, it is one of the 
 most anticipated and hyped games in history. Secondly, it is an id game... the creators of the 
 first-person shooter. And, thirdly, it is Doom!
  
  Being Doom, and an id game, practically guarantees high initial sales. Being hyped so much practically 
 guarantees player disappointment and lower long-term sales. This is one of those games, which you 
 will either love, or hate. There seems to be little middle ground. Why that reaction? Let us touch 
 on its high points, and some of its lows... and all will become clear.
  
  Doom 3 will be remembered as the game that once again set the bar for graphics. It is also likely 
 to be responsible for a rush of video card and processor sales. Despite id's rather modest minimum 
 system requirements, the game is only properly experienced if you have the hardware to run it well. 
 If your system is right on the borderline... upgrade first, then buy it. I played through 3/4 of 
 the game with an AMD 1.8Ghz and a GeForce 4MMX... then bought a GeForce FX5900 and upgraded the 
 CPU and Ram. I started the game over... and it was a difference of night and day. 
  
  When it runs well, the game plays like one huge cinematic movie. In fact, many games have pre-rendered 
 cinematics that do not look nearly as good as Doom 3 does... every moment of play. Full dynamic 
 lighting, shadows, bump mapping, all the Direct-X 9 effects you can think of... all play a vital 
 role in the experience. If you are in love with killer graphics, this is your game. Screen shots 
 will attest to its power, and seeing it all in motion is truly unbelievable. If nothing else, this 
 game engine will make id a lot of money, as other companies license it for their new projects.
 
  
  The sound quality of the game is easily one of the best ever. If you are blessed with surround 
 sound, you will find yourself drawn into the game like never before. Every hiss of machinery, screams 
 in the distance, spooky whispers in the dark, and countless other noises will have you constantly 
 on the edge of your seat. In this game, the sound is what lets you survive... often providing the 
 only clue as to where the next terror is hiding, and which one it is. If you do not have surround 
 sound, get a good pair of headphones... this game is meant to draw you in.
  
  OK, so it looks amazing and sounds amazing... how does it play?
  
  Here is where we find the 
 love it or hate it divisions coming into play. It is important to remember that Doom 3 is basically 
 Doom 1 all over again. The story line is pretty much the same, and most of your favourite monsters 
 from Doom 1 (and several from Doom 2) make an appearance. In Doom 1, you spent a lot of time searching 
 the levels for the key card that would open the locked door... just so you could hunt for the next 
 key card. In Doom 3, that basic mechanic has not changed much. Now you hunt for PDA's belonging 
 to the recently deceased at the Mars base, and get access codes and security clearance from that. 
 There is some interesting back-story in each of these people's emails and voice logs, but you will 
 refer to it for the codes to open doors and weapon cabinets... and not much else.
  
  Doom 3 has no drivable vehicles. It does not have co-operative AI that fights along side you. It 
 does not have a very memorable main character (in all the game interactions and cut-scenes, your 
 character never utters a single word) . It uses the staple weapons from Doom 1 (pistol, shotgun, 
 machine gun, plasma rifle, rocket launcher) . None of that exactly revolutionary for a cutting-edge 
 game... but again... remember that id is taking us back to Doom... not forward into some totally 
 new territory.
  
  Sound rather boring? If fact it is not... simply because of the atmosphere id poured into it. Every 
 step is taken through corridors, vent shafts, the Martian surface, and Hell itself... with a real 
 and tangible fear. At any moment, any number of creatures can leap at you from the darkness with 
 a terrible scream (often your own) . The intimacy of the combat, due to the often-dark setting and 
 rapid attacks from the demons is something you have to experience to appreciate. This isn't Quake 
 3, it's Doom 3. As such, think more along the lines of survival horror, and you will be closer 
 to understanding what this game is all about.
  
  The monsters themselves are truly inspired and something out of nightmares. They are guaranteed 
 to make you leap out of your seat on more than one occasion. Id did their work here very well. 
 It is in fact a shame that there were so many screen shots of the monsters released before the 
 game. Seeing a terrifying new monster for the first time is a real treat, and most of the main 
 ones are introduced via an excellent cut-scene. The imp in particular is amazing, as it climbs 
 on walls, ceilings, and out of grates. You will have to keep your gaze everywhere and on everything 
 to stay alive.
  
  The levels and structure itself is a little less inspired, but fits the theme well. The first half 
 of the game sees you wandering the halls of the UAC facility... and as such, much of it looks the 
 same. The detail in the machinery and environments will impress you, but after 6-7 levels of corridors, 
 you will be itching for something else. If you press on, the game does not disappoint. The trip 
 through Hell is incredibly unsettling, and the subsequent levels provide much more variety and 
 even more impressive graphical effects. The final levels of the game are the best yet, and are 
 alone worth the journey.
  
  There are a few notable omissions from the game however, and it is almost unforgivable that id 
 did not see fit to include them.
  
  First of all, there is no co-op play on the PC Version. The XBox version is supposed to have that, 
 but since the PC has more power... why was it excluded? Secondly, the physics engine, while great, 
 is seldom put to good use. Most of the items in the game are not interactive. You can knock over 
 barrels, the odd chair, and a few notebook computers, but little else. There is no stacking of 
 crates to reach hidden areas, positioning of toxic barrels to create an ambush point, or anything 
 else along those lines. The engine can do it... so why id did not include more of that is a complete 
 mystery.
  
  Thirdly, the enemies all turn to dust seconds after you kill them. The greatness of Doom 1 and 
 Doom 2 lay in your ability to run back through a level and survey the vast array of corpses your 
 carnage created. It was likely a decision made to preserve system resources, but a poor one. In 
 the fourth place, most of the weapons feel and sound a bit underpowered. There is not that satisfying 
 kickback from the shotgun like you remembered.
  
  Thankfully, all of these shortcomings have already been resolved via various mods. After playing 
 through the entire game as-is, I loaded up a mod called Ultimate Doom that increased weapon kickback 
 and sounds, left corpses in their wonderful ragdoll positions, and blasted back monsters a good 
 15 feet from a close and personal shotgun blast. The second time through the game was far more 
 rewarding... and though I would strongly urge the player to download these mods, id should have 
 included their abilities in the box, with an option to turn them off for slower machines.
  
  By now, the astute reader will realize that I have not mentioned the flashlight. This item 
 is the source of more debate than anything else I have seen relating to games in recent memory. 
 Id made the design decision that you are able to carry a flashlight that allows you to see your 
 way through the dark areas... or carry your gun... but not both at the same time. That means frantic 
 switching between your light and a weapon when your beam reveals something lurking in the corners. 
 
  
  The forums are alive with discussions over whether or not there should be lights on the guns, and 
 the improbability that the entire Martian base has not even one roll of duct tape. And, of course, 
 there are mods that attach lights to all your weapons. However, this game play decision by id was 
 done for good reason... and it makes the game the tense experience it is. As id themselves stated, 
 without the flashlight system, it is some other game... it is not Doom 3. I would strongly suggest 
 that the player leave that one alone... the game is better for it.
  
  In closing, let me say that you are best served by ignoring both the hype and the complaints, and 
 simply sitting down and playing the game. At the end of the 25-30 hours required to complete it, 
 you will likely find yourself very much a fan. Since almost everything is pre-scripted, there is 
 no randomness to compel you to play it through a second time, looking for a greatly changed experience. 
 However, the game is impressive enough, that on completing it I immediately added some additional 
 punch with a mod, upped the difficulty level, and started again.
  
  Is Doom 3 the greatest game ever made? Likely not. However, it looks better than any other game 
 to date (including Far Cry) , has that wonderfully grim id charm, and has a rewarding conclusion 
 that makes it a must-play and a must-have. If you are an id fan, you must get this game. If you 
 love amazing graphics, you must get this game. If you think you've seen it all before.... I would 
 urge you to still give this game a chance. Once it hooks you, it will quickly draw you in.
  
  Oh... and... beware of mirrors. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Al_Capwn
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 1, 2004 12:48 am PT
Review:  I rated this game a 5 cause i only liked half of it. The single player kicked major ass, but the 
 multiplayer was crap. My friend and I tried out the multiplayer on lan and i wanted to stop within 
 like 10 or 20 mins of playing. ID threw the code for it together pretty quick anyway so i wasnt 
 expecting much anyway. If you cant play dm games you really wont like this. If you're gonna play 
 it for fun then by all means go right ahead. Some pro players play this game, but it's really only 
 for the money from what I've seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew1969
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2004 5:53 am PT
Review:  The original Doom is the reason I now sit in a room surrounded by over 120 boxes of computer games. 
 Most of which are FPS. So it is with great dismay that I have to admit that Doom 3 was disappointing. 
 Of course the graphics are sharp and the effects are awesome, but I felt like I was replaying Quake 
 I & II. The only colors were shades of grey and red. Far Cry outshines this game, both in terms 
 of graphics, game play, and the physics engine.
  No breakable glass? Shooting a computer screen does nothing to it, the only object you can interact 
 with are aluminum cans? Come on Carmack. The story is fleshed out with the use of PDAs and e-mail, 
 bringing the game play to a screeching halt. The sounds are subpar, the weapons sound weak, and 
 the AI is almost non-existent.
  To be honest, ID should be proud of this game. It is worth buying, and playing through the end. 
 I did enjoy it; however, I unfortunately played a much better game only weeks before Doom 3, and 
 Far Cry exceeded my wildest expectations, as I had hoped Doom 3 would have.
  This game is scary, but after awhile you know what to expect. Dark Corners will have monsters hiding 
 in them, and enemies will almost always spawn in front of you and behind you at the same time. 
 For me, games and movies are often all about expectations, and as revolutionary as the original 
 Doom was, Doom 3 falls short.
  Now I sit and wait for the follow up to my second favorite game of all time, Half Life. Come on 
 Valve, don't let me down.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2004 4:06 am PT
Review:  Issue 1) The flashlight. Yes, the flashnight is needed rather excessively in the game. However, 
 it is fun to use at times, and it is not difficult or tedious to switch from flashlight to weapon. 
 
  
  Issue 2) The game is too dark. The game is very dark. I am fortunate to have a viewsonic P95F monitor 
 where I can adjust the brightness (Ultrabrite 3X or 4X) with a touch of a button. I would imagine 
 if you have a cheap monitor, the game may be too dark.
  
  Issue 3 & 4) Repetitive indoor environments are boring, the game is not interactive. This is simply 
 not true. The indoor lab levels ARE alive and interesting with complex automated machinery. The 
 graphics, light, and particularly sound of these machines really integrates you into this world. 
 It is true that you cannot get a soda from the machine or flush the toilet.... but so what? 
  
  Issue 5) The game is too easy. True, I have it on the highest setting and have rarely been 
 killed. 
  
  Issue 6) You just go around killing everything. Hello, this is a FPS, that is what you are supposed 
 to do. The action can be intense at times, but you can take the levels at your own pace without 
 constantly being attacked by endless monsters. 
  
  Issue 7) The weapons are bland and have poor sound effects. This is a pretty valid complaint. The 
 machine gune and grenades are not nearly as fun as in Quake. Killing something isn't particuarly 
 satisfying, as it usually just disintergrates. 
  
  All told, the complaints have some validity, but there is no justification for the low scores (5's, 
 6's, and 7's) that have been posted. If you like FPS, I cannot imagine you rating the game under 
 a 9. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drigam
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 30, 2004 5:15 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up this game, I thought my system was up to par with gaming standards if not more. 
 Little did I know that Doom 3 was going to tax my system beyond it's capabilities. I originally 
 had a VIA motherboard running my ATI 9800PRO and P4 2.8C with 1GB of RAM. After weeks of tweaking 
 and testing, reformatting and general nastiness, I bought a new motherboard. It solved my issues 
 and has given me a great platform to play this game at 1024x768 high resolutions.
  
  The game itself is worth it, the graphics are amazing, the sound is unreal. It's a linear game 
 in some sense of the word as it forces you down tunnels or through paths that take you to an utlimate 
 goal. Multiplayer is useless as it provides only 4 spots to play on. 
  
  If you haven't purchased this game already, and you're not sure if you're ready to go through tweaking 
 and general system upgrades, then I recommend you wait for the demo to verify compatibility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatpepsi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 30, 2004 9:43 am PT
Review:  this game as u all know has the wildest graphics for an FPS in this genaration.
  and also a superbly complementing sound.
  but in the end there is something missing.... u guessed 
 it right ,yes the game play isnt that outstanding or innovative.
  it seems that Carmack was so busy with graphics that he even forgot to think about game play..
 
  
  
  other than the gameplay , the game is meant to be bought...
  personally i will buy the game coz of its inhumane hype..
  and also becoz the eyecandy which 
 u cant resist if ur a graphics HORE...
  
  FINAL WORD....
  GO GET IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fib112
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2004 2:10 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for a while. In fact, I was hoping Doom 3 would come out before 
 HL2. I followed the development of the graphics engine of the game and got upset when the game 
 became delayed (I'm now more upset about HL2's delays) . As soon as the game came out, I bought 
 a GeForce 6800 card and began playing.
  The graphics are without a doubt amazing. Nothing lese than jaw-dropping. I would spend time just 
 taking in the scenes because they looked so good. One of my favorite moments was when you had to 
 follow someone carrying a lantern in the darkness. As you followed the guy, shadows would dynamically 
 wrap around the scenery, slowly illuminating the mysterious and frightnennig scenes along the way. 
 I was impressed. But once the "wow" factore of the new graphics engine wore off, I realized that 
 there's not mucgh else there.
  What Doom 3 is in essence, is a 2004 version of Doom. Better graphics, but the gameplay is the 
 same and there is virtually no music. I found misself quickly getting bored with the gameplay and 
 guessing were the enemies would be. Occasionally, something would jump out and give me a good scare 
 but otherwise things were just repetetive. I became bored and only continued because I heard that 
 the "Hell" scenes were really cool.
  I just finished the game and I have mixed feelings as I write this review. I wanted the game to 
 be so much better and I'm dissapointed that this much hyped game didn't deliver on other levels. 
 If the graphics weren't as good as they are, my score would have been much lower. Well, at least 
 the game's engine will be appearing in future titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin23
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 29, 2004 8:49 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a good game. The graphics and sound are amazing and will really immerse you in the games 
 universe, and the gameplay is simple, yet fun, unfortunately the simple gameplay does get old way 
 too fast, leaving the game with little replayability. The story will definatly not wow you, but 
 the graphics sure will. This game is THE game to test your new graphics card with, the whole game 
 is visually stunning, and there isn't one point where you will think it's not. The sound is also 
 very good making the whole production value top notch. As I said the story is nothing special but 
 it's the immersion that will draw you in, it will also make you jump out of your seat a few times. 
 The gameplay itself is basic kill all these demons, grab some pickups and move onto point B. That's 
 not to say it isn't alot of fun, it's just not revolutionary. Thankfully Doom 3 is a fairly long 
 game because your probably not going to want to play it too many times through. There is another 
 weakness and that's the multiplayer, it is very basic don't expect anything special. Wait for the 
 mods to roll in to boost the multiplayer and value. All in all Doom 3 is a complete package and 
 any FPS fan with a good P. C. should probably look at buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shredder133
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 29, 2004 3:36 am PT
Review:  After many years of waiting for Doom 3 I can say that it was well worth the wait. I have to mention 
 some things that you should keep in mind about this game. 1- this is pure fps action and uses minimal 
 ai, no open endedness, and this game embraces those things. 2- yes, this game is dark. It's meant 
 to be, it's a horror game. 3- if you choose to ignore those first 2 points you will be disappointed 
 with doom 3. id Software has created a game that they said they would, a tense, dark, creepy action 
 filled fps.
  
  The story, which you should already know, actually was more involving that I originally anticipated. 
 The cutscenes were very well made and didn't take you out of the game at all. Also, your character 
 has visions sometimes, and while these don't necessarily tell you much about what is going on, 
 they do immerse you more into the sense that this base has been overtaken by hell. The aspect that 
 tries to give you more story about other characters, the pda, is something that was as good as 
 bad. As you try and escape from the base, you come across pdas left behind by dead scientists and 
 the like. These pdas contain emails and audio logs that often contain cabinet codes, door codes, 
 and random pieces of information about that characters last couple of days. While I enjoyed reading 
 these emails and the voice acting in the audio logs were top notch, having to do these things feels 
 like it jolts you out of the game. Contributing to this feeling is that using your pda does not 
 pause the game. This is a serious problem since the pda takes up your whole screen, and sometimes 
 bullet fire directed towards your character can be mistaken for gunfire in an audio log that could 
 be playing. 
  
  The first and most noticable aspect of doom 3 is it's graphics. There is no game that looks as 
 good as doom 3. Not far cry, not anything. Mind you that I am reviewing this game on a 1.5 ghz 
 p4 and am playing it in 640x480. Yes, 640x480. Even in such a low resolution it looks amazing. 
 There are so many great visuals, but the one that stands out the most is the lighting used in doom 
 3. Shadows are cast realistically, more so than any other game, so that you can see long, dramatic 
 shadows as enemies come around the corner. Surprisingly, for a game that likes to show off shadows, 
 your character casts no shadow and there isn't a muzzle flash on your weapon. These two things 
 really took me out of the game, but thankfully you can enable them by entering your config file, 
 which I highly recommend that you do. 
  
  The next area in which doom 3 really shines is in it's atmosphere. Walking through blood stained 
 hallways, labs with broken glass everywhere, and even the surface of mars, you feel like you are 
 there. Some levels seemed to be a bit overused, but once I felt that, the level design would often 
 change and I was once again engrossed in where I was. Special attention should be paid to the gui 
 system used as it really keeps you in the game and works incredibly well.
  
  Along with the graphics, id kept saying how much time they were spending to make doom 3 a true 
 5.1 surround sound game. Having some logitech z-680s I took this news very well. Unfortunately, 
 I was a little disappointed given my expectations. That's not to say that the sound isn't really 
 good, but I felt like they could've given you more sound from the rear to make you feel more immersed. 
 I could tell when an enemy was behind me, but even painkiller did a better job of using surround 
 sound. The weapon sound effects did lack oomph, but the sounds were fitting to the weapons. Keep 
 in mind that I was running this game in low quality, so I did not have hardly any variation in 
 enemy or weapon sounds, but I cannot say how it would be on better system. 
  
  The enemies in doom 3 are some of the best monsters created in a game. They sound and look very 
 scary, and fighting them is fun for the most part. The star of this game is definitely the imp. 
 Their appearance, sound, movement, and unexpected arrivals made me look forward to every encounter 
 I had with the imp, which were many.
  
  Gameplay. If you've played any fps game, this is nothing new in terms of gameplay. While people 
 looking for something that pushes tactics and gameplay may find doom 3's action boring, I thought 
 it was really fun. Most of the time you will enter a room and pick up a pda (or some other item) 
 and enemies will teleport in all around you (or come out of a wall, etc) . It gets repetitive at 
 times, but as the game throws more and more diverse enemies at you it gets enjoyable again. Since 
 this is a horror game, the developers have tried to make it as scary as possible. They succeed, 
 sort of. I was only scared out of my seat a couple of times, but I went through the entire game 
 with a feeling of uneasiness. 
  
  Lastly, multiplayer. It's basic, it's fun, and there aren't many maps. Unfortunately, there aren't 
 many other maps that have been released at this time, but this should change soon. One important 
 point I have to make is how terrible the in game server browser is. Coming from id this is a huge 
 disappointment. Let me explain- the server list is set to filter out those servers with passwords- 
 when attempting to join the server I will be prompted for a password. I will try and join a server 
 with 1/4 people in it- server full. I will try and join a server with the lights out map listed 
 - i will join the edge 2, or some other map. There are many more things like this that have happened 
 when I try to join a server, and id needs to patch this issue more than anything else in the entire 
 game. If you can actually get into a server, the games typically run with little lag, and are a 
 blast to play. It's refreshing to play a game where you can hide in a shadow, be 2 feet from an 
 enemy, and not have them see you because their gamma isn't cranked up all the way. I'm sure this 
 will become a lan favorite.
  
  Those are my views on doom 3. If you've learned anything from this review, remember this, keep 
 this game in context- it does exactly what it said it would do, and nothing else. 
  
  (MY review score is actually around a 9.0-9.3, but gamespot says my score is an 8.3 based on what 
 I put into those checkboxes) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loves_Manpole
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 28, 2004 2:39 pm PT
Review:  The story in Doom 3 is the story for the original Doom, it takes place on Mars where the science 
 team opens a portal to hell. You are a marine that was sent in to look for a missing science team 
 member, while searching for them demons start coming out of the portal and that is when all hell 
 breaks loose. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Doom 3 is the simple fps gameplay, it has no amazing new weapons. When 
 you first start playing Doom 3 you will see demons popping out of a section of the wall, dropping 
 from the ceiling, or attacking you from behind. It made me jump, and freak out. It was very fun, 
 but it repeated this for the rest of the game. Whenever I entered a room I would look for a demon 
 who was going to appear and then look behind me for another demon. Doom 3 failed to keep the game 
 intresting, by adding more gameplay features besides weapons that only gave more firepower. Many 
 people have complained about the flashlight, how you can't have a flashlight and a weapon at the 
 same time. I think they have to use it because it would make the game lose its tension when entering 
 a Dark place, you wouldnt be nervous going in. The enemy AI was good, but not amazingly good. Enemies 
 would roll out of your gunfire but would never take cover or try to flank me. In the game are PDA's. 
 It is sort of hard to explain, but it recieves email and you can record messages into it. In the 
 game you are basically forced to look at all the emails and voice messages. Ammo and health supplies 
 are locked away, but PDAs will tell you what the code is to unlock it. It gets really annoying 
 after a while having to look at everything. While getting ammo and health from the locked cabinets, 
 you can also pick up supplies on the ground. You are often very low on ammo and have to make all 
 your shots count as if you were actually stranded on mars. It helps you get more into the game. 
 Whenever your character gets hit, everything in your screen goes blurry and your character jerks. 
 I found this extremely annoying. Doom 3 has a basic multiplayer deathmatch which should please 
 all the hardcore doom 3 fans, but this game is not a multiplayer game, like how UT2k4 is not a 
 singleplayer game.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are easily the strength of this game, it looks amazing, it easily has the best 
 graphics out of any game this gen (or any gen) beating out Far Cry. Once in the game I saw a lantern 
 setting on the ground near an edge. I ran up to it and pushed it off the edge. The lighting effects 
 on the wall as it fell were amazing and the heat waves were very cool looking. All the creatures 
 look frightening and that they will kick your ass. When you fire at the demons, you will see where 
 you shot them. Blood stains will appear and if the demon is close to a wall you will see blood 
 splatter on the wall. You cant beat the dead bodies and make more bruises because the corpses will 
 evaporate. The physics in this game are quite good. Punching a pop can will make it fly across 
 the room and the rolling barrels is somewhat entertaining. Doom 3 has a mediocre level design, 
 the rooms dont look exactly alike, but they dont change untill much later in the game.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is very good, it is probably the biggest factor in making the game 
 scary. The sound really pulls you into the game, there is good voice acting with the PDAs. It will 
 help to enjoy the game a lot more if you have surround sound. As mentioned before monsters respawn 
 behind you. 
  
  Closing comments: Doom 3's graphics engine will be used in many games of the future it is a technology 
 advancement, while the game itself is somewhat a lack luster title.
  I was very excited for Doom 3, I upgraded my graphics card just for this game. :) Being a fan of 
 Doom 1, Doom 2, and the Quake series (another seires by ID) ; Doom 3 was one of my most anticipated 
 game, but sadly it dosent live up to the expectations 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgnut
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 28, 2004 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Amazing graphics and awesome sound, very creepy. Doom3 has all these things with a pretty decient 
 story line. My one drawback is it is dark, very dark! They should have put the flashlight attached 
 to the shotgun or pistol or provided some night vision goggles to pickup and find.
  
  All in all its a great game and the visuals will absolutely blow you away! One of the tougher aspects 
 of the game is the way the monsters will spawn anywhere around you at any time. You must switch 
 from flashlight to gun very fast or pay the price. They will come at you from total darkness and 
 you won't know where they are until they start hitting you. 
  
  The PDA is a really cool aspect of Doom3. All the e-mail files and video-logs make for a nice story. 
 You need to listen to all of them and read the e-mails to open all the containers in the game, 
 instead of just finding stuff lying around. Nice touch if you ask me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irish27
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 28, 2004 6:06 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an awesome game. I have heard people complain that it is limited and repetetive, but 
 I have not found that to be true. The gameplay may be simpler than other shooters, but I think 
 this was intentional, and I like the result. To me, Doom 3 was meant to be a scary, tight game 
 and it succeeds extremely well. 
  The graphics are awesome. I have spent a lot of time looking at it next to FarCry and I have found 
 that each does some things better than the other. I like Doom 3s lighting and shadows better, Far 
 Cry is better with water and texture detail. 
  Doom 3 works extremely well right out of the box. I did not realize how nice that was until I went 
 in and loaded up FarCry to compare and had to deal with sound bugs that Crytek has still not worked 
 out. In comparison, every aspect, including performance on my PC is better with Doom 3. 
  I have already installed Mods that have made the game experience better. FarCry by comparison just 
 got their SDK out the door 3 months later. 
  I have read many reviews for Doom 3 both in magazines and sites and Gamespot is at the low end 
 with their review. I for one think they got it wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makemehappy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 27, 2004 11:39 pm PT
Review:  i was so hyped when doom3 was anounced back in 2000 i was 10 yea old i remeber doom2 on the super 
 nintendo and pc i loved this game i thought the game was going to come out about probly 2 years 
 but i was wrong the game came out on august 3rd 2004 and now im 14 and i went over circuit city 
 and baught the game and i had to wait to play it beacuse my bro was also shoping at circuit city. 
 i got home installed the game and boom what a blast good grapchics and the game barley lags with 
 my ati radeon and 3.0 ghz p4..1gb of ram and 4.1 speakers (yeah i know 7.1 are better) and soundblaster 
 audigy 2 i was playing the game very decent and i have to say that this game needs a better score 
 dont get why it had a 8.5 by most of the companies oh well.... i recommend this game if you have 
 a pc well enough to run this later.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scottsub
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2004 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I'm speechless!!! This game is defidently worth the wait! The graphics are amazing, even at low 
 quality (i run it on mediam) !! The sound will make the hairs on the back of you neck stand up! 
 I have played it two times now, and i still scream like a little girl when those Imps and Pinky 
 Demons jump out from a door!! Some people are complaining that the game is too dark, but i love 
 the dark. i personally love it, u turn on ur flashlight because the power went out, and then there 
 is a Hellknight right infront of your face!! I give this game TWO THUMBS UP!!! GOOD JOB Id!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Resplendent_Elk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 27, 2004 10:54 am PT
Review:  Yes, Doom 3 is straight forward, linear and simple. But although innovation would be welcome, a 
 simple game with tried and true gameplay fits with the whole well-crafted concept. At first glance, 
 the hell imagery reeks of teen angst, but in game and in motion, it's surprisingly cool and Doom's 
 demons are just begging for a good round of plasma bolts in the face (or whatever they have instead 
 of a face) . The concept even makes the often used cheap scare tricks work, although I found the 
 overall atmosphere, claustrophobic, dark and lonely, to be ultimately more scary than the monsters 
 popping out from everywhere. Doom 3 is a beautiful game, both technically and artistically, and 
 the technical aspects go beyond flash and buzzwords to actually meaning something in the game, 
 beyond forgettable eye candy. After finishing the game, the only thing I can complain about is 
 that I'm not very compelled to playing it again, because if the linearity and well-scripted but 
 now predictable scares. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 27, 2004 4:20 am PT
Review:  First things first... Sound and graphics... Completely perfect and nothing to complain about. Everyone 
 has been complaining about the simplistic gameplay. Why complain? Im not sure where everyone gets 
 revolutionary from Far Cry, after all I thought the game was complete crap. Who cares if you can 
 see across an island if the game isnt any good. Go back to the days of Duke Nukem 3D and if that 
 is your cup of tea then come on down! If you would like a throwback to the old days of run and 
 gun shooting that will most definately scare you if you have headphones on and the lights off, 
 then Doom 3 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2004 1:00 am PT
Review:  I wont go into all the details about the game because most the reviews have already covered all 
 the bases. But the plain simple facts is that if you have a computer that can run this game you 
 need to get it. Doom 3 is quite simply one of the best games to come out in quite a while. Especially 
 as far as FPS games go.
  
  The game is exactly what id set out to do regardless of what people seem to complain about. id 
 software wanted to make a Doom game with insane and near photo realistic graphics. Thats what they 
 did. They were not trying to make a Doom version of Unreal Tournament or BF 1942. They made Doom,
 
  
  Creepy atmosphere, closed in areas, creatures jumping from every direction from secret doors and 
 hellish spawns. That is what it is. The gmae has incredible atmosphere and is amazing in the graphics 
 department. It's also fast and frentic just like it should be.
  
  Cant wait for the mod makers to start pumping out stuff with this engine!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boodabomb
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 26, 2004 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Dude the graphics in this game are well worth the but alone
  
  this game freaked me out!! 
  i was always looking over my shoulder while i was playing it
  
 i was buggin
  the gameplay is great not as good as expected but still great
  the sound was kind of lame because of the guns but we have to keep in mind that this is on mars 
 in the future and guns might sound that way ing the future
  the reason the story was awsome was because they were just remaking the original and because they 
 did this you cant hold anything against them.
  
  so if your into scary games this is for you
  try it out 
  youll love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20059207203748300218075590909310-way_2_baked
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2004 8:45 pm PT
Review:  i have to say i was really excited about doom 3, especially about the graphics since i just got 
 an AWSOME new computer. so when i started playing it thought "wow, this game is soooo kick ass", 
 but after a little while i realized that besides the graphics, this is just another FPS. not saying 
 that its bad, it just doesnt do anything new and theres nothing here we havent seen before. the 
 game taked place on a base on mars which has been overrun with the forces of hell, and what you 
 do is you walk around this base and you shoot zombies and demons and all kinds of monsters. and 
 thats pretty much it. as you know, the graphics are freakin awsome, but after a while you get over 
 them. the game also has some good sound effects. its also a very dark game, and in many parts its 
 very ahrd to see. but lucky for you, you have a flashlight. the only problem there is, for some 
 reason, its like the year 2052 (i cant remember exactly) and they dont have any guns with flashlights 
 on them, so you'll be frequently switching between your gun and your flashlight, which is kind 
 of a pain. the game is also pretty long, around 15 hours of gameplay i would say, but it may take 
 longer depending on the difficulty level your playing on or your pace. it also has some multiplayer, 
 but its not that great, i would rather play UT2004. so, after you get over the graphics, and you 
 will, its just another FPS, but its still fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_minus
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2004 6:02 pm PT
Review:  There were three distinct stages of progression for me with Doom3:
  
  I. Excitement
  II. Annoyance
  III. Acceptance
  
  I. Excitement (100% Health)
  
  I made it a point to 
 be at the local Babbages store right when they opened on release day, and ran (drove, but quickly) 
 home to decimate the box and immediately install onto my not exactly new PC (P4, 2.8 GHz, 512mb 
 RAM) . Prior to plucking the box off the shelf I asked the kind salesperson where I could find the 
 Unreal Tournament 2004-ish DVD version of the game. You know, the one that doesnt have sixty-seven 
 CDs for me to damage/loose? 
  
  Sorry, dude, he said, that version doesnt exist.
  I see. I replied, laying down my plastic ticket to gibbing goodness.
  
  Once home, I savored 
 the manuals, the quick-view-key-cheat-sheet and even the InstallShield launcher. If you were at 
 my house youd hear oooooh for about 20 minutes. After I finally stopped futzing over the packed 
 in materials, I installed the game that I hoped would define the next 30-40 hours of game time. 
 I was pretty confident that my experience would be acceptable to good, based on how well FarCry 
 played and looked.
  
  II. Annoyance (75% Health)
  
  After playing the game for a few hours, my overall reaction can be summed up in two statements:
 
  
  UmIts really dark. Whatumwhat is that over there gurgling at me? Dunno, but lets unload some 
 buck-shot into its head, just in case.
  
  And...
  
  Hey! Was that monster in a closet? Whoa! Was that a closet in a closet with another monster in 
 it?
  
  Dont get me wrong, the graphics, even on my rig which doesnt have the highest end video card, 
 were spectacular, and the mood was very, er, moody. I was constantly terrified of the community 
 bathrooms (in the game and in real-life) and the deep, dank, dark corridors and the monsters... that 
 I could see.
  
  Therein lay my first major problem, the game is just too dark. Ok ok, I get the mood, and Im sure 
 youve read this before, but dark gets really old in a video game. Worse, Doom3 throws contrivances 
 at you that are just a little too high a hurdle to get over mentally. 
  
  Is it really feasible, even in a fairly outlandish video game about teleportation and Hell, that 
 the space marines dont have night vision or flashlights on their guns or, heck, even diesel generators 
 as backup power? 
  
  My second major issue with the game is the lengths ID went to create a spooky environment. Ok, 
 the first 10 times you get surprised by the monster in the closet, but the next seventy-seven thousand 
 timeswell, it gets old. I went from creeping through the environment, one slow step at a time, 
 to just running and blasting everything that moved. Now, that may be the point of a Doom game, 
 but then why bother with all the darkness? The effect wore off pretty quickly.
  III. Acceptance (10% Health)
  
  So where am I now? Ive accepted that the game play is pretty 
 lackluster, but the graphics are amazing, and its not much better than the last shooter I played. 
 But thats ok, since I love shooters. I just hoped for more, ya know? Something really special. 
 Something like, well like when I played Doom for the first time. Everything was innovative, everything 
 was fresh. Doom3 isnt exactly fresh, but its a blast to play, if you do it from the right mindset.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnorton76
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2004 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt this has been one of the most anticipated games ever. Id has spent a lot of time 
 with this game and the graphics really do show it. This game is absolutely amazing looking. They 
 really did a great job of creating a very atmospheric and dark game that really helps the scare 
 factor of this game. The characters in the game are almost life like and the creatures are really 
 scary looking (not too scary though) . Everything in the game is detailed and the entire Mars station 
 is filled with objects that make if feel like there were actually people working and living there.
 
  
  The sound in this game is really good. The enemies sound great and the ambient noices are perfect 
 for creating the mood as well as the music. The only really complaint I have is with the weapons. 
 Some of them just don't sound right. The shotgun does sound powerful enough and the reload sounds 
 just don't sound right. The same goes for the machine gun and the pistol. The chainsaw on the other 
 hand is great.
  
  The game plays like your basic FPS. Run around shooting anything that moves (except the scientist 
 and workers on the station) . There are a few moments in the game that will definately have you 
 jumping out of your seat, but then the game is fairly predictable.
  
  Overall this game delivers on what Id promised. The graphics are awsome and it is a great FPS for 
 those that love dark and disturbing environments and taking on hell spawn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_best_sarek
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 26, 2004 1:31 pm PT
Review:  After you are finished looking at the install bar going to the end, you finally are at the point 
 where you'll hope that your pc will rock this game. After a quick set up, (who want to lose time 
 in the option menu with a long waited game like this one) you enter a world, where you will really 
 feel true pain. 
  
  The story is pretty basic, but in this kind of game (action First-person shooter) I think that 
 it's what you can expect. Cutscenes are scattered through out the game and they always gives you 
 that feeling : oh oh, what's going on now. 
  
  The graphics are in my opinion, the best I ever seen in a game. I really recommand playing at least 
 at high setting, because below that you really lose the power of the engine to show crispy graphic. 
 Everything around you look alive. The PC monitor aren't a simple texture apply to an object, you 
 really have the impression of looking at a PC monitor. 
  
  The sound is nice, but sometimes you can have difficulty hearing people speaking when there is 
 conversation. 
  
  The best part of the game is the tense feeling you always have when running around. Ok, that's 
 a thing some people won't like, because most of the game is a basic run and go to some point and 
 come back to another. But I think that is what most people were expected from this game. It's really 
 kind of a remake of the old classic, but with the nightmare feeling attached to it. Everytime the 
 light goes down, you can feel the stress in you lightning up that flashlight to look around you. 
 I don't find the action repetitive like some people say about this game. For sure you are blasting 
 through a lot of demons / monsters but everytimes I always have this stressed feeling. The environment 
 is responsible for most of tthis stress. The lightning and shadows plays the most part of this 
 tense environment.
  
  This game really worth going through once while I wait for the multiplayer community to add good 
 mods to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConstantinNC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 26, 2004 7:36 am PT
Review:  Ok people, its here, and worth the waiting, Doom III delivers what it promised in every aspect 
 of the game, that what Doom is about, its not about outdoors views, or jungles, its scary indoor 
 shooter mainly, and it scares the hell out of me, the graphics are revolutionary, specially on 
 high end cards like GeForce 6800, the atmosphere is very creepy and horrifying, it keeps you on 
 your nerves, walk slowly and keep your eyes open for any heart stopping surprises. The sound also 
 played very big part in this creepy atmosphere. 
  
  Under every broken light, in dark corners things can come to you, trust me when I say you will 
 jump out of your seat. One thing I asked myself, why you cannot use the flash light with the weapons, 
 imagine your flashlight always on, after a while of playing I found out that it would rip off most 
 of the surprises in the game, and I guess thats what ID didnt want to happen, keeping you on 
 your guard, expecting things to happen in every move is the goal of the game.
  
  Close the door, turn off the lights, turn volume up, and go try hell (WARNING: not recommended 
 for weak of heart) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mendoza
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2004 6:39 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an amazing game, the sound, graphics, and ambience all pull together to make a generaly 
 spooky feeling game. It wont scare you (make you jump though) but it will give you a generally 
 uneasy feeling as you worry about where the next demon will emerge from or what crazy thing will 
 happen next.
  
  The sound, its just amazing, the comm chatter really adds a depth to it all that makes the game 
 seem all the more real. An it does something to keep you in the game, you almost always have something 
 to pay attention to outside of killing things, which keep your mind there at all times. So when 
 something does happen you are paying attention and it suprises you all the more.
  
  Also, it is a game that can be appreciated by anyone. Mainly for two reasons, the sound and the 
 graphics. There is something about the way it is pulled together that is cinematic and it resonates 
 with pretty much anyone who is willing to whatch it for a while. I have seen few games that can 
 hold the attention and interest of a non-gamer as long as Doom 3 can. To them, as you play the 
 game, they are whatching a movie and a decent movie at that.
  
  The game is absolutely awesome, the graphics are amazing, the monsters are amazing, the sound is 
 amazing, the game just pulls every possible technology together to make and amazingly immersive 
 experience that everyone should play, FPS fan or not, Doom 3 should be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKingOfFuzz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 26, 2004 4:42 am PT
Review:  The first thing youll probably notice about Doom 3 (even if youre not running it in a machine 
 chock-full of top-shelf components) is that it looks flashier and shinier than a turtle-waxed metallic 
 ass. Id software has thrown in their lot with the graphics crowd and, via an entirely new engine, 
 has managed to breathe new life into the much overrated (and steadily stagnating) world of photorealistic 
 visuals. The innovative use of shadow and light (and how your computer recognizes and deals with 
 the objects therein) gives the world of Doom 3 a startlingly unique credibility. This time its 
 for real. This time, its horribly and frighteningly for real. Doom 3 is, without question, the 
 best looking game out there thats gunning for a realistic visual experience... but the question 
 youre probably asking yourself is does it end there?
  
  Ready for the short answer? NO. Where others shooters make half-hearted stabs at quality, Doom 
 3 delivers. Farcry, which was, at its core, a bug-ridden, sketchily-produced holdover for those 
 frustrated and dismayed by the delayed released dates of Doom 3 and Halflife 2 comes readily to 
 mind. Fans of the first-person-shooter genre will be relived to know that they know have a place 
 to go where the uninspired glut of World War II shooters, generic, technologically runty Battlefield 
 1942 clones and an interesting (but ultimately unfulfilling) Counterstrike-style UT2K4 mod can 
 be easily forgotten. 
  
  Since Dooms trend-setting release, shooters have essentially gone in a few directions: traditional 
 Doom-inspired run and gun (think Serious Sam) , realistic team-based multiplayer (Counterstrike, 
 Battlefield 1942) and zany, arcade style games chockfull of different modes and different ways 
 for large teams to blow the rocket-powered bejesus out of each other (Unreal Tournament, Halo) . 
 Halflife has also earned a place of honor by combining an intense, well-developed sci-fi storyline 
 with fast paced, addictive action.
  
  But somewhere along the line, everyone forgot where it started... and no, Im not talking about 
 blasting the crap out of a mechanized Adolph Hitler (although thank you, Wolfenstein) Im talking 
 about vaporizing demons with a shotgun and screaming in terror as hellish imps and zombie marines 
 make a beeline for your sweet, sweet brain meats. Im talking about a world where the further you 
 go, the bigger your weapons get and the more violence you have to precipitate to win. Doom 3 has 
 been roundly criticized for a lack of interesting multi-player modes, failure to allow the main 
 character to make use of a flashlight while he holds a gun, failure of the space-marine corps to 
 issue night-vision goggles in the light of an otherwise plausible plotline. Evidently, the same 
 people who can accept a breach in the fabric of reality cant handle a future in which a single 
 soldier cant see in the dark. However, those criticisms fail to remember the most important fact 
 about this game: its a Doom sequel. You're here to run around a virtual world and shoot, and the 
 corps ain't payin' you by the hour!
  
  Those of you who remember hijacking your schools computer room to run Doom II death-fests on the 
 LAN will remember damn well that the multiplayer was fun because it was new and full of trend setting 
 violence. It was great while it lasted and damn exciting... then things like Team Fortress Classic, 
 Counterstrike and Unreal Tournaments Onslaught mode came around. Whats more, there were great 
 NEW death matches (like the ones found in Quake and Quake II) to boot. Doom 3 falls short in the 
 multiplayer department, but you can comfort yourself with the fact that there are a slough of other, 
 cheaper games in which you can blow up strangers on the internet. Doom 3 wisely leaves the multi-player 
 death orgies to games that were created with that specific experience in mind.
  
  Doom 3 is a single player affair, just like its predecessors, and just like its predecessors, it 
 pulls of the campaign in an epic and explosive fashion. Doom 3 is pure twitch. The mind games and 
 general horror overtone helps quite a bit, but the core of this experience is the satisfaction 
 derived from being the toughest bad-ass in hell... and in hell there is no turning back, there are 
 no second chances and there damn sure isnt any room for pansies (where do you think all that wall 
 gore came from?) . Simply put, there hasnt been a shooter this true to the spirit of the genre 
 in a very long time. The game is about staying alive and to do that, you have to make everyone 
 else dead. Simple, effective and (thankfully) nowhere near as pompous as the general mediocrity 
 twitch gamers have been force-fed for the past several years... now if only they had let the bodies 
 of the monsters just stay on the ground instead of going shadows and dust the way vamps do in Buffy. 
 
  
  On the sound front, its true that Doom 3 doesnt reach too much further than the required grunts, 
 groans, growls, roaring, panting and kabooming, but whats there is solid. If a rocket launcher 
 doesnt sound like that in real life, itd be a surprise. The biggest regret about the sound is 
 that it wasnt epic enough to find its way onto its own CD in some sort of Doom 3 collectors edition. 
 Suffice to say that, while disappointing, the lack of epic sound is hardly game-breaking. The snarls 
 of ambushing demons will still make your ears tingle and your shorts wet. 
  
  Overall, the core experience of FPS is stronger here than its been anywhere since the first two 
 Doom games hit. Inconsistencies in the plot (the already harped-upon lack of night vision for example) 
 barely make a dent in this incredibly solid game. When the first demon shows up and you find yourself 
 down to one shotgun round and your trusty pistol, youll very quickly forget about night vision 
 goggles. You'll either be foaming at the mouth at the thought of going toe to toe with the thing 
 or you'll soil yourself. Remeber: this game is not meant to be realistic. Go read Jane Eyre if 
 youre after the startling human drama of reality. This is hell, this is mayhem, this is Doom 3... and 
 its gotten first person shooters through the door that leads to the next generation. Whats your 
 excuse for not stepping through alongside it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sLiPkNoTOOL
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 26, 2004 3:33 am PT
Review:  Doom3 is a remake of the original. Wonderful graphics... great gameplay lot of fun! To start of 
 doom 3 is a very easy game but you`ll be wanting to finish it in one sitting. There are some problems 
 though. Also there are some parts that can be a pain for example finding codes for storage locks 
 or codes for doors. One of the great things is that for the first couple of levels with imps and 
 zombies they jump out at you. Later on in the game you learn to check all the shadows. One problem 
 is that the last boss is way too easy the boss from the level hell is much harder than the last 
 boss. Also some enemies have more health than some bosses. HELL KNIGHT CoUgH CoUgH......900 health. 
 Another dumb thing is that the flashlight is not attached to the gun let me swith to my flashlight 
 to discover a monster in the darkness better switch back to my gun great i get a rocket launcher 
 close range about 5 feet. Once switch from maybe your shotgun to the flashlight then when you turn 
 your flashlight off the game will give you the strongest gun you have at the time bfg or rocket 
 launcher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Troy-M
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2004 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Doom has always been an intriguing series. Known best for its run-n-gun style of gameplay, the 
 game has always been a hit among old-school PC gamers such as myself. However, after Doom II, it 
 seemed like id Software was milking the series dry, what with Ultimate Doom and Final Doom and 
 all of these ports onto 16- and 32-bit consoles and what not. And when we thought there was a light 
 at the end of this gloomy tunnel with Doom 64 for the Nintendo 64, we were wrong. Now, with Doom 
 3's existence unveiled to the world more than three years ago, was it worth the wait? Of course, 
 like Greg Kasavin said, no one can answer that question for you. But, hopefully, this review will 
 help you answer the question.
  
  Doom 3 is basically a remake of the original Doom: it's the year 2145, and you're in the boots 
 of an anonymous Marine. You've been assigned to the Union Aerospace Corporation's research facility 
 set on the Martian moon, Phobos. When you get there, you immediately discover that something suspicious 
 is happening around the base: more and more of the employees at the base want to pack their bags 
 and get out of there for some unknown reason, and you see a man being sedated after thrashing around 
 continuously in an infirmary. When you're assigned to look for a missing scientist, you discover 
 something horrendous when you find the panicking scientist: Hell has broken loose! Time to blast 
 your way out of the base, soldier! 
  
  The single-player mode will, at first, feel very surreal to many gamers -- or at least when they 
 first start fighting the forces of Hell. Starting out with a pistol, you work your way through 
 the base, eventually receiving weapons from the original Doom, such as the chainsaw, shotgun, chain 
 gun, plasma gun, and the BFG 9000. New to the series is the machine gun and grenades, both of which 
 are just as helpful as the other weapons.
  
  The game keeps faithful to the Doom series by letting you basically just run around with your weapons, 
 blast some zombies and demons, and go to the next room. However, as you get deeper and deeper into 
 the base, you'll need to at least develop basic strategies in order to overcome your enemies and 
 survive. But, otherwise, you don't really need to use your noggin: the essence of this game is 
 blasting your enemies back to Hell.
  
  Ever since its first demonstration at E3 2002, Doom 3 has been praised for its glorious graphics: 
 it was obvious that this thing could push our technology to its limits. Surprisingly, the game 
 plays very well on the required specifications. Although this means turning off some or all of 
 the delicious eye candy, the game will still look better than what you can get out of a rig with 
 the required specs. But, of course, if your computer is well beyond the recommended specs, then 
 you'll obviously have a much better experience: fire and the radiating heat surrounding it will 
 refract whatever you see through it. The dark atmosphere of the game is nurtured by all the shadowy, 
 claustrophobic environments that you'll be exploring. And pretty much everything about the graphics 
 puts even Far Cry to shame. If you've been playing nothing but 5-year-old Counter-Strike, you'll 
 simply drop your jaw when you see everything the game has to offer when it comes to the looks of 
 the game.
  
  What makes the game scarier than anything is the audio. From the groans of zombies to the shrieks 
 of Imps to the earth-shaking roars of Hellknights, your adversaries sound scarier than they look. 
 And the other sounds and voices in the background make the game seem more sadistic than it is (Human 
 voices speak out, asking for help. But where are they coming from?) . And to add to all this is 
 the eerie background music that adds to all the horror (like in slasher movies) .
  
  But after you beat the single-player mode, perhaps you can try the multiplayer mode. No, Doom 3's 
 multiplayer isn't Unreal Tournament 2004, but still has plenty of value, as you can play in a free-for-all 
 deathmatch, team up with buddies in a team deathmatch, have a tournament, or battle it out to be 
 the last man standing. Although the multiplayer mode isn't very strong, it's definitely worth a 
 look.
  
  Doom 3, although it isn't as great as some people thought it would be, is worth a purchase, especially 
 to fans of the Doom series. And although it's a bit pricey, it's still good enough for the $55 
 price tag. And if you're wondering if it's worth an even pricier upgrade to get the best experience 
 out of it, it still looks good on older computers, so perhaps it isn't. But the bottom line is 
 this: although it didn't exactly live up to all the hype, it still remains true to the Doom series 
 and is still very, very fun to play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2004 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3.... In One Word..... Amazing!, The graphics are insane, even on a minimal spec system it runs 
 great. The Story is good, but not the deepest. It's about a 20 hour long game, The games scare 
 factor is great, but after awhile you'll find that you'll get used to them jumping out at you and 
 it won't be all so scary (atleast i found it that way) . The Multiplayer, is ok, the game is based 
 around Single Player though. The sound is great, and it adds to the scare factor if you have 5.1 
 etc. The game is tough ( I found it at times it was) , you'll find yourself sometimes going back 
 to find PDA's which have keycodes and email in them. I highly suggest getting this game, it's worth 
 every penny!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharp_shark
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 25, 2004 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I was thoroughly looking forward to this game. I thought the idea of killing creatures from Hell 
 in near-absolute darkness would be fun. Indeed, I was half right and half wrong.
  
  In regards to graphics, the game is the most polished and crisp looking game I have ever laid my 
 fingers onto. The visuals are near-realistic, and they will not let you down what so ever. The 
 characters you come across look almost real. This adds to this Doom experience considerably, and 
 certainly stands out the most for me.
  
  Now lets talk about the game play. This was a bit of a let down for me. The reasons being, you 
 could not use objects in the environment for your advantage. For example, you could not pick up 
 objects and throw them at the enemy. Nonetheless, I still had fun shooting the evil creatures. 
 The weapons on offer gave a good range of options on how to dispose of your foes. The shotgun the 
 best of the lot, as it can pack a lot of punch into an enemy. 
  
  Thusly, continuing onto the sound. The sound overall in the game was disappointing to me. The sounds 
 of the weapons were a bit "off". Most of them could have been vastly improved. However, this could 
 be fixed by using modifications. 
  
  The game, to me, is fairly repetitive. The first 5 hours of the game I enjoyed the most, whilst 
 the end parts were a bit slow and tedious. So, once you have completed the game once, you might 
 try it on a harder setting but there is nothing there that offers something new. The graphics were 
 the only thing to stand out for me. Everything else - like the sound and game play - offered no 
 new innovations. To top it off, the multiplayer is inane and redundant. It offers nothing new to 
 the genre.
  
  This, overall, is a great game in some respects but nothing to completely smile about. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 25, 2004 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I am glad I bought the game, it's definitely worth playing just to see the graphics. Between the 
 graphics and the sounds I really get into the game and get the cr*p scared out of me a few times, 
 but after a while it's just another gray room with something trying to kill me. Having read most 
 of the reviews I know someone is going to say I don't get it or that I am whining, but I need substance. 
 Eye candy can only impress for so long. 
  
  I think the graphics are maybe a step ahead of Far Cry but with the islands, the vehicles, the 
 story line and objectives, Far Cry is a much better overall game IMHO. I even like Max Payne2 better, 
 the invention of bullet time and the story line carry the game through it's inferior graphics. 
 I wish they had spent as much time on the game as they did on the graphics, it would put it in 
 contention for GOTY, but I think all it gets is an honorable mention in my book.
  
  The graphics is a great start, but I can't wait to see what other games get built on this engine. 
 It has the foundation for a really great game, it just needs somebody to make use of it.
  
  Well, now on to Half-Life2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dasaecor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 25, 2004 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Great Doom game, very linear and very much the same throughout the game, but the graphics and the 
 atmosphere are excellent. I've enjoyed it very much so far, ID has put a lot of effort in this 
 game, and that's clear from the beginning.
  
  There will be other people who might do a game better than Doom using its engine, but again, these 
 guys are always the first to break walls. If you like FPS, don't hesitate to try it, worth the 
 wait!!
  
  The other positive aspect of the game is how well it will run and look regardless of how powerful 
 is your PC. With a top of the range PC the experience will be awesome, but I have a Radeon 9700 
 Pro, using Medium quality, and the game looks very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbynum
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2004 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I cant believe some of the reviews here on this game! This game is so freakin boring and becomes 
 work after a short time. Except for the late levels, look forward to fighting the same monsters 
 over and over and over. Oh and office/labs over and over. At least in the late levels theres a 
 different look to the game as far as setting but by that time your just wanting to get this game 
 over with! Games are suppose to be fun right? Fun Factor is really lacking on Doom 3. If you insist 
 on buying this way over hyped game, get it used on Ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwmmk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 25, 2004 5:27 pm PT
Review:  It like the beginning of the game very much. Very creepy and good story line. In the middle I got 
 bored of reading the emails and the monsters are hiding in the same places all over again. Also 
 the flash light issue (flash light = light + no gun or no flash light = dark + gun) is very annoing 
 at the end. It is just too dark. I can only play in after 18.00 hours when the sun does not shine 
 anymore.
  I hope that the game saves the best for last, as in the orginal game.
  
  The weapons are very familair and the same as the original games. If you do a remake that is what 
 you could expected. I would preferred at least one special weapon in Doom 3, but the id probably 
 does not have the people in house for brand new ideas. That could be the reason for a remake in 
 stead of a new story.
  
  At the end a good single player game, but I am not gonna play it over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edrulez
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 25, 2004 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Remeber the cool levels in Doom 2 with open spaces and various buildings to explore? I realize 
 this new "amazing" graphics engine for Doom 3 may not be capable of this type of level, hard to 
 believe, but wouldn't it have been nice to see more levels like those big Doom 2 levels?
  
  The last 1/4 of Doom 3 was very good as far as level design. It finally opens up a little bit and 
 we get out of the rather boring corridors of the complex and into Hell and then the dig site. These 
 last few levels do alot for the overall game. Up until then, it is just too dark and repetetive. 
 Remember the old critisisms of Quake and the "brown" color palette? Well Doom 3 will go down as 
 the "too dark" game.
  
  Weapons are the same as the original games and that is fine. Some may wish for a new something 
 or a tweaked version of something else but I don't think that was ever the plan.
  
  Overall, the game is OK for a single player experience but the cost makes it a bit hard to swallow. 
 Unfortunately, I think id has once again made a great piece of cutting edge technology but didn't 
 have the storytellers to make it a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dburg
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2004 1:07 am PT
Review:  This is a superb game to give to someone who thinks there just all tough and thinks he can't get 
 scared. I played this to the full experience and it just scared me almost to death (well i died 
 anyways on the game lol) . Anyways the game has amazing greaphics and will run on suprizingly low 
 grapics cards. If you have those 5.1 suround sound you will be ammazed and wet (Depending if your 
 a wimp but i guess you can't be one to play this game) . The game is also pretty long so it doesnt 
 end in 3hours. The monsters are very reallistic so thats why you would be frightened to the core. 
 I also like when you get to a new enemy there is this little clip. Well mostly im telling you that 
 this is a awsome game and you should get it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Missn_Link
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 25, 2004 12:33 am PT
Review:  Very disappointing considering the hype surrounding the game. Remake of the first Doom with hardly 
 any new weapons or concepts. The games graphics are the only thing that should appeal to the public. 
 The game engine itself is nice but nothing spectacular. The game overall is just another shooter 
 lacking what it takes to break the mold of previous shooters before it. Considering the wait of 
 the game being released it is quite possibly the biggest disappointment of any FPS shooter in the 
 past 5 years. I say this based on the games lack of creativity since Doom 1. All the weapons and 
 enemies are the same besides the look of them, really nothing has changed. Even the plot is the 
 same for crying out loud. My opinion: Disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eheise
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 24, 2004 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Great run & gun shooter, but if I pay $50 for a beautiful game, I'd like it to be interesting to 
 look at, and it would be nice to see it. I understand the shadows are a part of the atmosphere 
 and level design, but if you're hiding good visuals in the dark, give me a damn headlamp!! If I 
 see another shooter entirely in an industrial complex, I . . . well, I won't buy it. And zombies!! 
 Christ, if you have to rely on cheap gore to make a good game, then you've failed. This is the 
 Doom name, so maybe it's everyone else's fault for ripping them off, so ID, move on. Give us an 
 interesting, original IP. Doom is done, let it rest in hell. We don't want to see it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anterys
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 24, 2004 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Everyone has said great things about this game's graphics and sound and dogged the plot, difficulty, 
 and the realistic aspects of the game. I will not say anything about the graphics or sound aside 
 from the fact that I agree with what most people are saying. The part of the game that I am enjoying 
 more than the other obvious facets of the game is the storyline. I did not have many preconceptions 
 going in, I just let the game take me where it wanted. I found myself following and feeling the 
 storyline and that made the game so much better. The PDA emails and videos are well written and 
 acted. The voice acting was so well done it really sounds like those people actually experienced 
 what they were saying. The video disks are another nice touch, again more immersive.
  
  If there is a negative aspect of the game, it would have to be in the repetitive nature of the 
 gameplay. For the most part, all you will be doing is killing (essentially the same creatures throughout 
 the game) , opening cabinets (for items) , and gaining access to doors and other parts of the facility.
 
  
  Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Head_Shot
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 24, 2004 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Hardly worth the wait. Not nearly worth the new Mobo, chip, 2gig of Corsair memory, Wavemaster 
 case, 510 watt power supply to power the NVidia GeForce6 6800 Ultra card. At least now I have a 
 kick-ass system to play Far Cry and hopefully soon, Half-Life2 on... It will be a cold day before 
 I pre-buy another in the "Doom" franchise. If Half-Life2 is a dud we can at least look forward 
 to some promising new games. Far Cry is well beyond Doom3 in gameplay and without all the hype. With 
 all the open space enviroments the new games are sporting, it's hard to get back in to the "let's 
 run down hallways" gameplay of Doom3. BEEN THERE, DONE THAT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zilor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2004 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an amazing game, the sound, graphics, and ambience all pull together to make a generaly 
 spooky feeling game. It wont scare you (make you jump though) but it will give you a generally 
 uneasy feeling as you worry about where the next demon will emerge from or what crazy thing will 
 happen next.
  
  The sound, its just amazing, the comm chatter really adds a depth to it all that makes the game 
 seem all the more real. An it does something to keep you in the game, you almost always have something 
 to pay attention to outside of killing things, which keep your mind there at all times. So when 
 something does happen you are paying attention and it suprises you all the more.
  
  Also, it is a game that can be appreciated by anyone. Mainly for two reasons, the sound and the 
 graphics. There is something about the way it is pulled together that is cinematic and it resonates 
 with pretty much anyone who is willing to whatch it for a while. I have seen few games that can 
 hold the attention and interest of a non-gamer as long as Doom 3 can. To them, as you play the 
 game, they are whatching a movie and a decent movie at that.
  
  The game is absolutely awesome, the graphics are amazing, the monsters are amazing, the sound is 
 amazing, the game just pulls every possible technology together to make and amazingly immersive 
 experience that everyone should play, FPS fan or not, Doom 3 should be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RRouland
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2004 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is so intense I actually have to stop every hour and play something else, or take a walk. 
 I'm a nervous wreck, spining around at every little sound and literally jumping out of my chair 
 when some zombie or demon suddenly appears where I least expect it. When I enter a new area and 
 note that it's a long, dark corridor, I actually say "Oh no" out loud. I have a P4 3.06ghz Alienware 
 computer with all the bells and whistles, so I can run this game at the ultimate settings. The 
 graphics, story, audio and immersion factor all easily make this game the best of 2004. Bravo id! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngdi
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2004 4:14 pm PT
Review:  The game doesn't suck. 
  
  Really outstanding graphics. Really. And the voices, weapons, demonish stuff sounds great.... really.
 
  
  But great sounds and great graphics are NOT the only requirements for a good game. For all the 
 critic-haters out there, you've got to unbias yourself, and look at your score categories individually. 
 
  
  Graphics:..... can't say enough. Really amazing. No real out-doorsy stuff, but in every other aspect, 
 stunning. I like the flashlight, and hell looks amazing.
  
  Sounds: deep and scary and evil. Spot on. A little dodgy with the surround sound, discussed later.
 
  
  Gameplay: (and here we go) .... sorry id. But you messed up. What have we got here for a game? Keys, 
 hallways, monsters, and then repeat. No real plot twists. No free form. No role playing. No 3rd 
 person. Missing several key aspects of modern shooters..... for no apparent reason. Things like 
 lying down, things like leaning, like throwing nades and holding weapons at the same time. Holding 
 20 weapons at once. No vehicle control, except for the HL1-styled monorail. No innovation at all. 
 Zero. You've got Doom I with prettier sound and prettier graphics, and with more complicated level 
 designs, and that's it. And that's not good enough, nor is it worth $55. 
  
  problems I particularly have:
  #1. the halo assault rifle. Straigh up cop-out. It's embarassing 
 id, and those involved in desiging it would not notice, or simply not care about copying another 
 game's weapons so closely, especially since it was not in the original doom. Why the hell is it 
 even there?
  
  #2. Random crashes. ATI Cards seems to be having problems. I'm running on an XP3200, 9800pro128, 
 DDR400 1gig, Audigy 2. I meet pretty decent specs. High settings, 800x600, and it crashes every 
 10-20 minutes. Enough people have mentioned this to be serious issue so it aint just me, thankfully. 
 the 4.9 catalysts fixed this for me, but considering they are still in beta, and until recently, 
 so were the 4.8's..... it makes no sense for a game that took 5+ years to make to come out and be 
 INCOMPATIBLE. ATI's got enough developers to worry about, it is clearly a testing and stability 
 failure on id's side.
  
  #3. Persistent dead bodies. Far Cry's graphics engine is every bit as complicated as this, in addition 
 to rendering extremely large outdoor areas and DOZENS of enemies at once, including vehicles, helicopters, 
 expansive water, fish, etc. No excuses, id. It's a bad decision, and the game suffers because of 
 it. The "Blade" style disintegration is a very obvious method of taking some strain off the computer, 
 but.... sorry, there must be other ways. Mod's schmods..... even if the bodies would stick around 
 for 5-10 seconds, and THEN burn up..... at least that would be better. And the tissue flying off 
 the reveal a skeleton and brain flyng...... just stupid. Don't shoot for realism and then deliver 
 Serious Sam style game elements. 
  
  #4. Ragdoll physics..... none of it, technically. Whether you think it's there or not, if the enemy 
 disintergrates before it hits the ground, there is no ragdoll. I try to blow someone off a rail, 
 and they burn up before they even leave the ground..... why even waste the phyics calculations... id? 
 Just concentrate on the tech demo, and rely on teh disintegration effect. Freaking AAO has ragdoll. 
 HL2 will have ragdoll. Far Cry had ragdoll. Doom I didn't, so maybe that's their reasoning, however, 
 doom I had persistent dead bodies.... hundreds of em.... so whatever.
  
  #5. No 4.1 speaker support in the game. To force it to work, you have to tell the control panel 
 that you are a 5.1 setup, and then, every time, tell doom to enable surround sound. Since you're 
 missing the center channel balance.... it's not right. If my Audigy 2, with EAX HD, can simulate 
 4.1 on every single game available since nearly the beginning of games (even Half life 1.... for 
 god sakes) , then there is ABSOLUTELY NO EXCUSE for id or any other developer to not do so. Far 
 Cry did it, half life will too... it's just silly. My bet is it will be patched. Saying you haev 
 true 5.1 support means jack...... make it surround sound, and then let the sound cards and speaker 
 systems sort out which channels are which, which they are more than capable, and DESIGNED to do.
 
  
  #6. Not enough enemies. Even playing on veteran for my first run through, the routine gets old. 
 It would not be routine with more enemies to fight. Reminiscent of Doom I and II, sometimes in 
 desperation you would have to stand your ground against 5 barons of hell, a few archviles, a revenant 
 bastard, some mancubuses, a few cacodemons, and hell, some chaingun soldiers.... all at once, all 
 with only 50 plasma rounds. That's how it was. Now, it's me and 1 or 2 monters at a time, and if 
 I'm lucky, 1 or 2 monsters at a time, coming in groups of 2 or 3, in series...... it just isn't 
 hard enough to keep track of that in my mind.... sorry. Grab a powerup, hear a teleportation, turn 
 around and jack that imp......100 times.
  
  #7. And this is the biggest. No Co-op. Doom III could have done for the PC what Halo did for the 
 Xbox. peer to peer co-op was do-able with doom I and II.... it was part of the game. Not some silly 
 mod. ANd reviews are done on games, not the mod community. I'm sure that someone has (as they did 
 with the alpha) figured out a way to do it. ANd if they did, then shame on id for not making it 
 possible. Storyline schmory line...... if I want to screw up some checkpoints and fool around team 
 style against a cyberdemon.... then let me. All of the elements of boredom, flashlight issues, difficulty, 
 and innovation could have been solved by this one simple aspect. It's too bad. I guess HL and the 
 Valve supported "Sven co-op" will outshine in this category as well.
  
  If doom III had been co-op, it would have opened the door, and perhaps mandated that every other 
 story driven first person shooter would finally include, if not base it's game on 2 or more players. 
 Play Lord of the Rings, or Metal Gear, or Metroid, or _______, first person, with each member of 
 the group under human control. Play HL2, first person, with a second scientist, together. OFP had 
 it. Most games have a simulated co-op against stupid AI. Serious Sam had it..... Doom I and II had 
 it....... just do it. Stop simulating squad tactics, such as in Medal of Honor, Call of Duty, and 
 other recent games implementing scripted and cooperative AI....... let me and my friend storm the 
 church. Let me and 3 or 4 friends land on the beach in normandy. You people that say you don't 
 care, or don't want to do it haven't thought about it like that. Every squad type game that comes 
 out, where the squad is you and some AI would be improved, and usually is, when they can be human, 
 such as rainbow6, OFP, and hopefully the new starwars republic commando. 
  
  4 player DM multiplayer has gotten old already.... Compared to other online alternatives, it's just 
 mindless.... UT2K4 MP has more depth than DoomIII, which is sad. Honestly..... a pointless addition 
 to the game. More players just means dying for nothign more often. I'd rather be in a conquest 
 mode, or have some sort of objective. DM got old with quake III.
  
  and those are facts.
  
  I bought, I'll play it, and I'll beat it. And when a mod comes out for co-op, and perhaps a 
 lot of things are added, I might rethink my initial response to this game, which, sadly was critical 
 disappointment. 
  
  the game's fun..... but it isn't what it should have been. People are going to play HL2 instead 
 of this for the same reason they played HL1 instead of quake 2. And you know you all did.
  
  history repeats. I'm betting on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -GMAN-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 24, 2004 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I can give an honest opinion of the game after finally completing it. Graphics are of course beyond 
 reproach as most everyone has seen in pics or movie clips. The atmoshere is downright awesome, 
 especially if played with the lights out in a dark room and not rush through it. Scary stuff. I 
 have literally jumped an inch out of my seat or leaned way back at times. Gameplay is simply straightforward 
 and very reminiscent of the old style of play. Some gamers see that as a drawback and not as revolutionary 
 as the graphics are. You decide. The only drawback I found was the sound of the shotgun not being 
 as powerful as I had imagined or as quick to reload for intense action. Although the sounds of 
 all the other weapons more than made up for it. Not just the rounds themselves, but also the loading 
 and of course the look. As for the creatures what can I say besides great job. I gave a 10 for 
 reviewer's tilt, because it has been quite a while since playing a game that was so much fun. I 
 look forward to playing it again. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry64
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 24, 2004 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Short review... DOOM 3 is the one of the best PC games out there this year . Though it took 4 years 
 to finish it but now it is released, it's just mad fun! The online maybe me boring or fun to you 
 and the story mode might be hard or easy but mostly hard, just still go play it! The story is also 
 kind of lame, this is a BIG disapointment. If you have a system to run it and have enough money 
 to get this game, get this game right now! Just watch out for those creatures and such. But one 
 problem is the tilt. It's hard to switch some of a few things here and there but hopefully it won't 
 be that hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob23090
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2004 11:43 am PT
Review:  I usually don't have nightmares. I had trouble sleeping while playing this game. The dark passages 
 filled with unpleasant surprizes, the background sounds of painful torture and despair, and the 
 ruined surroundings all combine to create an incredibly immersive gaming experience. 
  
  I got it. This is not just a first person shooter. From what I am hearing, most people pound their 
 way quickly through it while trying to treat it as a competitive experience. If you do though, 
 you won't see the wonderfully detailed environments created by the designers. You won't experience 
 the cinematic suspense. You won't experience the hesitation to open hatches or pick up hidden powerups. 
 You won't cringe at the screaming howl of the imp.
  
  This game is meant to be played slowly. If you let yourself get drawn into the experience, you 
 may feel a little less like you have been to a shooting gallery and more like you have been to 
 a horror movie.
  
  The game was incredibly resource intensive. With an AMD 2800+, a 128MB FX5200, and 500 MB of RAM, 
 the boss battles became unplayable flashes of action, even at 640X480 resolution. After upgrading 
 to a 256 MB video card, things smoothed out substantially though. 
  
  Single player replay value is low due to the fixed trigger locations of the bad guys.
  
  Despite 
 this, I felt it provided an experience that was well worth the money, time, and effort to play 
 through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamoz
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 24, 2004 10:01 am PT
Review:  Was expecting this game like everyone else with high hopes. I must admit that I haven't played 
 the previous Doom (s) . I knew that it was a splatter game, going around killing monsters, so thought 
 would be fun. Lets get into more detail though.
  
  The game has amazing sound if you have a surround system. The music and especially the various 
 sounds add a lot to the atmosphere of the game and in the suspense. 
  
  The graphics are very good as well and seem to use very powerful graphics engine that will be utilised 
 in other games as well. The downside is that currently only few powerful systems can handle the 
 highest graphic settings. Also, I personally don't like so much colourful drawn graphics since 
 they appear to me more fake than real, but this is just my personal opinion. 
  
  The main problem of the game for me was the gameplay itself. I mean, everything seems to be perfect 
 but its getting boring just running around and blowing off enemies. Trust me, in the beginning 
 I was enjoying this but at some point it seems the same. Even the maps and the rooms all seem the 
 same which makes it even more repetitive. 
  
  The AI is not bad but not excellent either. The annoying part in that enemies tend to appear from 
 nowhere sometimes.
  
  Overall, the game seem impressive in the beginning, but the story and gameplay starts to get boring 
 very quickly. Personally, I finsiehd only half of the game and I got bored already.
  
  Hope I helped. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dutch-King
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2004 9:45 am PT
Review:  If you liked Doom I and II youll be satisfied with this beautiful pees of software!
  
  I played doom when I was young. I played I with pleasure and a little fear. The game was great 
 for the time it came. That is nearly the same with Doom3.
  Doom3 is a little advanced than all other games until now and had a creepy style.
  
  The game 
 is more of the same but it had an upgrade. The monsters for example are the same ass they appeared 
 in the original game. I like that because that shouldnt be changed and I wanted always a Doom 
 game in a very future creation.
  
  Sow all I wanted to say is that if you liked Doom I youll like Doom3 because the advanced graphics 
 and same game play. You just play an other story on mars. 
  ID software made it! The game is worth it and you should try it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatbrain101
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2004 8:30 am PT
Review:  Excellent trip through Mars and Hell. This game just gushes with quality all over it; from the 
 highmarks in graphics, artwork to the tense atmospheric experience. I've used my 2 weeks to soak 
 up the game and beat it at medium level, and here's the gist of it.
  
  The gameplay is definately simple, but that's what keeps the game moving along at a brisk pace. 
 The only thing that will slow the player down is your datapad of information; other then that it's 
 a bloodfest. I do agree with Gamespot on the repetative nature of the scares; after a player gets 
 used to the the game the scares are shocking. The reason shock it disappears is that your marine 
 is just a badass, and it's too easy to save anywhere at anytime. I played on medium level and the 
 marine is just too powerful; I'd just defeat the scare factor because I just gung-ho into a room 
 and whatever pops at me - I know I can kill and the mobs do not nearly do enough damage to my marine 
 before I blast their block off with my arsenal of weapons. Plus on the RARE occasions I died I 
 just reload (save alot on the fly) and finished it easily on the next go around. The AI is not 
 designed to be smart; for the most part they run at you like cannon fodders; but again, this is 
 hell and they are coming to kill you and not out-think you. This is not Far Cry it's like comparing 
 apples to oranges. 
  
  The graphics are by far the best I've seen and I've seen them all. I've had just about all console 
 or gaming systems since the 80's. I ran the game at 1024x768, 4xAA, 8x anistropic, high detail 
 on my OC'd 3.6 P4, ATI X800 XT machine and it ran smooth like butter, but I also tried it at 640x480 
 with eye-candy off and the game looks too good to believe; by far the best 640x480 game I've seen. 
 Id really shows how scalable the engine is, a good point to selling this 3D engine to game developers 
 who are looking for a high end engine for their next game, but at the same time keep low spec'd 
 users in their fold. The engine is just the best for what it does; it was probably not designed 
 for large scale environments like Far Cry, but that does not take away from how pure eye-candy 
 the game is; from my perspective it's the best for what it was designed to do; and again, it scales 
 crazy good. Now let's get away from graphics technically and get to design. One word, the Artists 
 at Id deserves a raise in salary or a huge bonus. Holy smokes! some of the levels just look purely 
 evil, sick and totaly Satanic! I mean this is magnificant portrayal of Mars and Hell. The ladder 
 half of the game's visuals are just dead-on! I mean I cannot imagine Hell looking much more evil 
 then what Id presented to us.
  
  The sound is the key for the moods! The visuals are nice, but what set the tone was the sound.. 
 sheesh they made my back tense up. It's not really the typical 'BAM!' scare tactic either; it's 
 more pyschological. Id craftly used whisper, moans and diabolical laughs to put my mind in a whirlwind 
 of fright. The choice not to use music was a great choice; it would have really ruined the atmosphere. 
 I'm in friggin Mars/Hell not in some disco/rock concert!
  
  
  For what the game is... it's a definate winner! a technical showcase as well. and I'm not the biggest 
 FPS genre player; I'm more into RTS, mmorpg games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarHamster40k
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 24, 2004 6:19 am PT
Review:  There's no contest on the graphics this game provides. The voice acting is also well-done. However, 
 the overly dark atmosphere, combined with a repetitive "Look out behind you!" theme and a monotonous 
 level design (before reaching Hell) , mars what was otherwise a very good experience. It's also 
 hampered by limited replay value (no changes, other than increased difficulty) and stifled online 
 play. The mod community has provided incremental mods (different graphics and tweaks to gameplay) , 
 but creating full-blown mods a la CounterStrike or Natural Selection are a long way off because 
 of a yet-to-be-released SDK. It'll be interesting to see what happens afterwards, but until then, 
 Doom3 has a great beginning and end.
  
  Review Machine - Custom Built AMD XP-2600 Machine, 512MB PC2700 DDRRAM, 80GB SATA drive, 48x CD 
 burner, ATI 9600 Pro (128 VRAM) , DSL connection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shoota_McG
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 24, 2004 5:11 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to Doom 3 for a while, a game that would showcase my top-of-the=line PC, 
 circa 2002. When I finally installed the game, it was very pretty despite my system falling to 
 "budget" classification. My almost 2 year old 9700 Pro runs the game great on medium settings and 
 it still could be the best looking game I've seen. 
  
  Too bad the gameplay isn't as impressive as the visuals. You move from room to room looking for 
 PDAs, ammo, armour, health and where to go next while enemies spawn near you. You can't see very 
 well, the shadows are amazing - forcing you to pull out your flashlight much of the time. This 
 is Doom 3's gimmick, you walk around with your flashlight until you see an enemy, then you pull 
 out your gun (putting away your flashlight) and shoot into the dark. This does create a very scary 
 atmosphere, but it gets really repetitive quickly. 
  
  The weapons are classic Doom, you have your fists, pistol, shotgun, machine gun.... etc. Nothing 
 too spectacular. Basic designs here. 
  
  The sound was supposed to be done by Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails, but that was axed. The audio 
 is spooky, especially the whispering voices you hear once in a while. The weapons really sound 
 weak and the theme song done by Tool really could have been better. There is a mod that replaces 
 the audio with Reznor's work, but I haven't tried it out and it wasn't out on day 1.
  
  If you could rent PC games, this would be a renter. As it stands in most places, you have to buy 
 your PC games. This game can show off a great system, but I'm waiting for Half Life 2. Oh, I forgot 
 to mention the multiplayer.... well, id forgot to include any worth mentioning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Killer12
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2004 4:46 am PT
Review:  Wow Id's long waited FPS is finally out Doom 3... Was it worth the wait, or was it a flop? Personaly 
 I think it was either. I have been waiting for Doom 3 for months and im sure many people have been 
 also. So one of the first things I noticed is that the envirment is to dark, and that you need 
 to switch you weapon to take out ur flash light. Personaly I think that they could have put a light 
 on the guns in your inventory. Throughout the game it was very dark and I was hopping it would 
 get better, but unfortinitly it did not. The graphics and the phsyics are simpally amazing, but 
 that is not all that makes a game good. Sure that may help the game but why play a game that has 
 amazing graphics but doesnt have decent gameplay. Overall Doom 3 was not worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 24, 2004 4:35 am PT
Review:  Classic gameplay, superstandard visuals, buggy stability. Knowing that the gameplay in Doom 3 is 
 little different from that of the original titles shouldn't dissuade you from getting into this 
 title. Hours of constant hell-spawn blasting in what made the FPS genre. Back in the day it was 
 all about blazing through the level killing all comers and nabbing the sequence of keycards that 
 would take you on. Such games were fun then, and they are fun still. The environs and visual effects 
 of Doom 3 set a new standard that few upcoming games will likely match. It is fantastically beautiful. 
 However, I like many others have experienced consistent crashing after only a few minutes of play. 
 My 3.4Ghz P4, 1GB RAM, 128Mb Mobility Radion 9700 system should have no trouble with this game 
 - and it does run well even on High quality - but the game tends to crash inexplicably after only 
 a few minutes. After downloading Omega drivers for my ATI Mobility card from www. omegadrivers. net 
 the stability issue was completely resolved. Rock on, Doom 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shelbs
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2004 4:16 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 has changed many things in gaming history but is Doom 3 the game really changing it? The 
 answer is no the thing thats changing the history is the engine that Doom 3 runs on. 
  
  The game itself is magnificant but it has some lows. A big low is the very repetitive solid metal 
 rooms. Nearly the whole game is a giant metal cube that you run around in for about 20 hours.... 
 theres a very few times that you are not in a metal room. Another low is whoever made the weapons 
 in Doom 3 must not have been very bright. The reason is that no one was smart enough to attach 
 a flashight to a weapon. Well sure no one knew that Hell was going to break loose but it is very 
 dark in some areas of the Mars City couldnt someone atleast added a measly little flashlight to 
 the bottom of a gun?
  
  But other than those things Doom 3 really is a great experience with GREAT graphics and good sound 
 and scary, flawless gameplay it manages to do a great job of introducing this new AWESOME engine 
 which will hoepfully live on to be used in a large amount of newer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GilCore
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 24, 2004 4:14 am PT
Review:  This is actully my first time playing a Doom game. I've always known about it and I've watched 
 people play but I never actully played myself. I do however know that it's pretty much a remake 
 of the original Doom if I'm correct. Either way, the game is pretty enjoyable. Without much character 
 development of your player, your quickly caught up in a dark dark ship with a pistol, a flashlight, 
 and a whole lot of hellspawn. You make your way out best you can, kill zombies and creatures, gain 
 password and accsess to areas while the story unfolds itself. While the game can sometimes seem 
 too dark, some computers may not be able to run it well, and the story itself isn't all that original, 
 the game is overall an enjoyable experience. Like the pamphlet said, turn the lights off, the sound 
 up, and it's really fun if not a little scary, I haven't enjoyed a game like that in awhile. My 
 only real wish is to see a much more detailed multiplayer mode, though mods for that come out all 
 the time, so I'm pretty happy with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sentinelrv
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 24, 2004 3:54 am PT
Review:  Picture a red desert planet floating in the depths of space, with one monstrous complex residing 
 upon it's rocky desert land. A labyrinth of cold steel corridors, pipes, and advanced technological 
 equipment, the Union Aerospace Corporation (UAC) is home to the thousands of workers deprived from 
 all the enjoyment of life. Cramped up by claustrophobic conditions, the workers of the UAC struggle 
 day to day trying to make a better future for Earth, but in a cataclysmic event, that future is 
 turned into an uncertainty, as scientists accidentally open up a portal to the nightmarish fires 
 of Hell. Swarms of demonic creatures now stand between you and the salvation of Earth.
  
  Doom 3 is one of the most graphically enhanced games ever created. From the moment you start up 
 the game you can tell how much time ID took to create all the details in it. The level design is 
 simply awe inspiring. The key element in this game is the darkness. Not being able to see in front 
 of you combined with the tight claustrophobic corridors makes this game seem like you're the only 
 one in the world. One of the little things that makes the level design seem that much greater is 
 that every single room that you enter on the Mars base has it's own purpose, unlike the original 
 Doom where there are just pointless mazes to see if you can reach the end.
  
  Since the game wants to instill the feeling of solitude and loneliness in you, there are almost 
 no interactive characters in the game, unlike games like Half-Life where you had to depend on different 
 characters to help you out through certain situations. Instead, you'll have to rely only on your 
 sense of what the right thing is to do in certain situations, and you better hope that this sense 
 reminds you not to have a happy trigger finger. Sometimes you can run very low on ammo and are 
 forced to switch between weapons to keep up the good fight. The key system from the original Doom 
 has been drastically reworked. Every worker on the Mars base has a PDA that sends and receives 
 emails, and records audio logs. You'll find all of these PDA's lying around the base next to their 
 dead owners, and this is where the key system comes into play. You can review each of the worker's 
 PDA's and find the different key codes for locked doors and ammunition closets in the area in the 
 base that they work at. This process works much better than the simple find a random key, open 
 a random door routine that was experienced in the original game. The PDA's are also the main way 
 that the story is introduced to the player, by reading emails, or audio logs from personnel throughout 
 the base.
  
  This game was made to be scary, but it is sad to say that it does only a mediocre job of it. The 
 scare factor is based on walking around the base in tight corridors, sometimes in complete darkness, 
 and having demons jump out at you. This process works for about an hour of playing time, but then 
 you get used to it. There may be a few scares throughout the rest of the game, but not many. Also, 
 about halfway through the game, the metal pipes, computers, and corridors scenery starts to get 
 a little boring and repetitive, and leaves you wishing that you were in an outside area, which 
 in this case does do a good job of instilling the claustrophobic effect. But, the repetitiveness 
 of the game sadly decreases the game play value, plus the added fact that there is almost no replay 
 value, because the game acts out the same way each time you play through it. The game does kick 
 into high gear though when you finally take your journey to Hell, and experience one of the greatest 
 level designs of all time.
  
  If you are a big fan of the original then you will most likely be a big fan of this game too, because 
 it has a lot of old schoolness to it. It's a run and gun game just like the original. The weapons 
 range from the the classic Doom chainsaw to the super powerful BFG 9000. Also, the enemies seem 
 more like the originals too. The AI is pretty stupid, because most of the enemies you'll encounter 
 just want to run up to you and kill. There is no hiding behind crates and using team based tactics 
 to destroy their enemy. The bad AI is very reminiscent of the original. But it's still very fun 
 to hack your way through mindless enemies with your trusty chainsaw. The only thing that is really 
 different about the original and Doom 3 is the way it looks. All the key elements of the Doom series 
 are left intact. The way it looks is the thing that really sets the game on fire though. The superb 
 graphics, combined with the amazing level design and detail give you some really great eye candy.
 
  
  So, in the end, Doom 3 is really almost exactly the same as the original Doom, just with a giant 
 face lift. -sentinelrv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patrick_C
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2004 3:25 am PT
Review:  Once billed as a remake of the original Doom, Doom 3 is actually a retelling of that game, now 
 set in a much more frightening and disturbing environment. In fact, Doom 3 shares more in common 
 with many survival-horror games like Resident Evil and Silent Hill than its predecessor. Narrow 
 space-station confines replace the dungeonlike interiors of past Dooms, and now the emphasis is 
 solely on one thing: terror. id Software has developed a magnificent game engine from the ground 
 up to bring to life this much darker Doom. And amazingly, although the stunning graphics are nearly 
 flawless, the bloodcurdling atmosphere as a whole takes center stage. Anyone who writes Doom 3 
 off as a mere technology demonstration is mistaken. What we have here is none other than pure hell 
 on a computer screen -- and thats a good thing.
  
  The plot of the original game was paper-thin; Doom 3 increases the storys arc to a short science-fiction 
 novel. In 2145 humans live on Mars, but mostly only those working for the Union Aerospace Corporation, 
 a massive conglomerate whose current project is the exploration and excavation of the red planet. 
 As a nameless (but not faceless) marine on your first day of work, you report to the UAC Mars base 
 and, as expected, chaos erupts. Demonic creatures teleport into the base and wreak havoc, and as 
 one of the few remaining military personnel, its your job to exterminate them. Youll uncover 
 a deeper back story during your journey through the various complexes -- if you wish.
  
  Skipable cut-scenes and linear mission objectives allow you to shoot your way through the myriad 
 UAC caverns without giving mind to story details. At anytime, however, you can holster your weapon 
 and equip your personal data assistant, Doom 3s way of keeping you informed of story-related events. 
 Youll find the PDAs of dead UAC workers in many rooms, allowing you to check e-mail for important 
 storage cabinet codes and door access rights, as well as context to your surroundings. The PDAs 
 also serve a less obvious but very useful purpose: a break from the action. Doom 3 is one scary 
 game -- maybe one of the only games youll want to stop playing so you can gather your senses and 
 calm down. The PDAs provide a much-appreciated break from the carnage.
  
  Repress your fear and resume playing and youll find expertly designed level after level. One mission 
 has you searching to open a locked door; once you find the remote computer terminal that unlocks 
 it, you realize youre in an onlooking room one story higher. Your mission objective of returning 
 to that door is now crystal clear and you know exactly where to go. Holding true to the Doom legacy, 
 these small puzzles are kept to a minimum. In one situation, you come across an unusable low-power 
 elevator and are simply told to find another way to the next level. Whereas a game like Resident 
 Evil would have forced you to look for a power source for the elevator, Doom forges on. And if 
 you get stuck on certain puzzles, a small tool-tip window pops up with a hint. There is no idle 
 time in Doom 3.
  
  A new id graphics engine needs no introduction. This one, however, has run into some competition. 
 Engines that power Far Cry, Half-Life 2, Serious Sam, and the Unreal series have taken a bite out 
 of the once-impenetrable id Software industry. In spite, Carmacks latest stands up wonderfully -- it 
 is simply the most beautiful graphics engine available, and in particular, the lighting and shadows 
 in Doom 3 catapult it to the top of the pack. Doom 3 was clearly made with horror in mind, as the 
 lighting effects are, arguably, the scariest aspect of the game. Light bounces off everything: 
 walls, doors, enemies, and even your own guns. Your most useful "weapon" at times, a flashlight, 
 is a double-edged sword, illuminating one area while forcing you to lower your firearm to see ahead, 
 as countless corridors are pitch black. Pictures cannot convey what Doom 3 has to offer.
  
  True to form, Doom 3 retains the age-old id Software trademark of remarkably smooth and simple 
 controls. Unlike other bloated engines in games like Far Cry, Doom 3 seems to have been coded to 
 include everything it requires and nothing more. The game can be scaled to lower-end machines more 
 easily and will likely be used in benchmarks for years to come, like ids last title, Quake III. 
 This translates to the game experience as a seamless and streamlined interface and control mechanism. 
 Eleven buttons are used for weapon switching, one for your flashlight, one for your PDA, and the 
 others for rudimentary controls: crouching, jumping, running. No Use button is needed; all the 
 doors in Doom 3 open automatically, and when you approach computer screens or other input devices, 
 your weapon lowers and a mouse pointer appears that you use to interact with the device.
  
  Simply put, Doom 3 wouldnt be the same without its terrifying audio and sound effects. And incredibly, 
 theyre nearly on the same level as the graphics. The game uses 5.1 surround sound to its full 
 effect, creating a completely immersive environment. Much like the lighting, sound effects cue 
 at the most terribly inappropriate (or for the macabre, appropriate) times: immediately after intense 
 firefights, misleading you into believing a demon awaits; as you enter a room, the lights die, 
 and youre left wondering if a monster is inches away; during stretches of demon-less action, which 
 are just as scary due to the hair-raising sound effects. Get this: Even the voice acting is top-notch. 
 Not everything is perfect, though. Youll receive missions objective updates and audio transmissions 
 as you progress, but theyre often obscured by other elements -- usually attacking hell spawn. Though 
 not a game-breaking fault -- you can check your mission objectives on your PDA -- it is quite irritating.
 
  
  Although not as dependent on straight-up gun-toting action as the original Dooms, Doom 3 is still 
 a first-person shooter, and as such, theres lots of shooting. Lucky you, theres plenty of ammo 
 scattered around the UAC. It's too bad, though, that the gun sound effects dont measure up to 
 the level of quality set by the rest of the game. Your pistol sounds laughably weak (perhaps on 
 purpose?) , the machine gun must have been replaced by an automatic stapler, and the shotgun would 
 sound more convincing if only it were a bit louder. That said, the fire of the BFG 9000, plasma 
 gun, and chain saw are well done, if only because the first two are fictional and cannot be compared 
 to real-world weapons. New to the Doom world are grenades, and although they sound great -- creating 
 a shockwave that rocks the surrounding area -- its cumbersome to switch to them in battle, and they 
 often land astray. On the whole, most of your journey through Doom 3 will be with weapons whose 
 accompanying sound effects arent very convincing.
  
  Most of the series stalwart demons from hell return, including the Imp, Revenant, Archvile, Hell-knight, 
 Cacodemon, and Cyberdemon. In fact, the list more reads like a Doom best-of than only those found 
 in the first game. A few new additions are featured, such as a dismembered baby torso and a crawling 
 Imp-like demon, and each fits in quite well with the rest. Seemingly in a nostalgic nod to the 
 older games, enemies sometimes cross fire and begin fighting each other, a helpful (and humorous) 
 occurrence when youre low on ammo or health. But never mind the Cyberdemons: Unexpectedly, the 
 shotgun- and machine gun-wielding humans-turned-zombies are some of your toughest enemies to slay 
 thanks to their dead-shot accuracy.
  
  Always billed as a single-player experience first and foremost, its obvious. Multiplayer in Doom 
 3 has a 4-player maximum limit, includes only five maps, and has just deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 and variants of the two. Thats it. But unlike Quake III, multiplayer in Doom 3 is a slower and 
 more methodical monster. Thanks to the graphics engine, hiding in the shadows is a viable technique 
 you can use to stalk opponents. The maps have been designed to take advantage of the best parts 
 of the single-player game. One map, Lights Out, has closeable windows and variable lighting, often 
 forcing players to switch to their flashlights to see. As it stands, however, Internet play is 
 a hit-or-miss prospect. Lag plagues most online matches, and the in-game server browser is buggy, 
 requiring many to manually enter IP addresses to play. In all likelihood, id is planning a patch 
 to fix these bugs, but in its current state, Doom 3 multiplayer is problematic at best.
  
  When combined with the demonic monsters and the unknowing of what may lie around the next corner, 
 you have what is most likely the scariest video game ever created. Doom 3 doesnt just capture 
 the spirit of the original game; it takes that concept and transforms it into a much better and 
 more horrifying adventure into the depths of hell. The ho-hum multiplayer mode and the sometimes 
 repetitive single-player game may turn off some players, but rest assured that theres a lot here 
 to enjoy -- and be scared of. Have several dark and lonely nights to burn? Doom 3s the ticket.
 
  
  --Patrick Caldwell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kos97866
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this out the way first. Doom 3 has the most technically impressive graphics, by far, 
 I have seen in a game so far. It also is probably the most atmospheric, and downright scary game 
 I've played.
  
  Unfortunately, that's where anything really really good one can say about the game ends.
  
 
  The game does its best to spook you, and it succeeds. But this isn't any truly masterful terror, 
 but rather the old B-movie type; go round the corner, and a monster will suddenly (and loudly) 
 jump out of the wall at you, while simultaneously another teleports behind your back. It's hard 
 to comprehend without playing the game, but this situation happens over, and over, and over, and 
 over again.
  
  The quicksave feature does a lot to minimize the effect such horror might induce. You simply go 
 forward, fall into the trap, and quickload if your reflexes weren't quick enough, only to give 
 it one more try. Corner, after corner, after corner.
  
  Oh, and there are a lot of corners. With very few notable exceptions, the entire game is effectively 
 a corridor crawl of old. Dark corridors. 
  
  Indeed, very dark corridors. Doom 3 has the best shadows to be seen in a game, but id was just 
 a bit too proud of them. While other recent excellent FPS, like Far Cry, aimed to provide a variety 
 of environments and situations, Doom 3 just keeps hitting you with one dark room after another. 
 More annoying is the fact that your only source of light is a flashlight; which you can't hold 
 at the same time as any of your weapons. This mechanic, while adding to the suspence, quickly becomes 
 more than tiresome, and will have you looking online for one of the 'duct tape' mods to slap some 
 lights onto your weapons.
  
  Overall, you'll find yourself impressed by its graphics quite often, even as you're finishing the 
 game; if you have the patience to take that much of its repetitive gameplay. Don't get me wrong; 
 Doom 3 is certainly worth playing, at least for a few hours at a friend's place. But it just can't 
 be compared to, for instance, Far Cry. Even though that game's graphics are technically less advanced, 
 unless you're shadow-obsessive (like some folk at id seem to be) , Far Cry's graphics are much more 
 impressive. And there really is no comparison when it comes to the games themselves, unless you're 
 really into the cheap horror genre.
  
  At the end of the day, Doom 3 just doesn't deliver that much of an enjoyable gaming experience. 
 It's a must see, but not necessarily a must-buy or even must-play-to-the-end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gambone
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 24, 2004 2:35 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: What Doom 3 does, it does well.... It just does not do a whole lot
  
  As you know by now, Doom 3 is a dark game. This is not a problem, as it adds to the feel of the 
 game. But there came a few points, when I just had to stop playing for a while, because the game 
 was getting boring. For a good 3/4 of the game, every corridor looks relatively the same. Sure 
 every now and then you get to run outside, but there is nothing really special gameplay wise when 
 going outside. It just serves to show some different graphical effects. Sometimes you visit a huge, 
 open, moving, 'set piece' room, but these were few and far between at points (the points where 
 I had to stop playing) .
  
  Also, the game got downright predictable at times. The first 10 times a monster spawns behind you 
 it is pretty intense, but after those first 10 times, you come to expect it. You kill the monster 
 in front of you, turn around, and can kill the monster behind you before it even has a chance to 
 start moving.
  
  I really did like reading, listening, and watching the personnel records. Those really drew me 
 into the game and added to the story
  
  GRAPHICS: This is a no brainer. I think 99% of all Doom 3 reviews give it a 10. Sure you could 
 knock it for being 10,000 shades of black, but the graphics are still a 10. Not much more to say, 
 as most people agree in this area
  
  SOUND: I really like music; after all, I was in band. I really like the Doom 3 theme in the menus, 
 but the game itself has no music. I can kind of see why the game does not have music, but would 
 adding music to the single player hurt at all? No, it would only serve to make the game more atmospheric.
 
  
  The enemies sound great, no complaints. The weapons on the other hand.... Oh so wimpy. Would it 
 have cost id software too much to go out into the field and record some sounds of real guns? The 
 machine gun sounds like a rapid fire spit-wad shooter, the shotgun lacks any fearsome punch (although 
 the reloading looks and sounds cool) , and the plasma rifle sounds like I am loading ice cubes in 
 it when I reload. Weapons in fps games are your connection to the world; they have got to be cool. 
 More work in the gun sound department id, and this would have easily been scored higher
  
  VALUE: I rate hard here, in all my reviews. In the case of Doom 3, I only see myself playing the 
 game once, and the multiplayer is nothing special, so that is a 6. After you experience the game 
 once, you already know all the scary events, so they are not going to be scary again. Also, the 
 game is very linear, so it is going to play out exactly the same no matter what you do. At only 
 one point in the game you are given an attempt at a 'branching storyline'. But no matter what option 
 you pick, the game will play out the same. So there is no replay value
  
  Multiplayer, in its current state is not worth playing. The darkness promotes camping, and with 
 the small player counts on most servers, camping makes things all the less interesting. There are 
 already better multiplayer games out there to play, so I do not see myself playing much Doom 3 
 multiplayer
  
  TILT: overall, I had a fun time playing Doom 3 single player. I am going to give multiplayer some 
 time to improve. If there were more to the game, I could have seen giving it a higher score, but 
 to even get a 9, a game has to really blow me away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simiain
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 24, 2004 12:53 am PT
Review:  
  
  A worthy successor to the Doom legacy, Doom 3 continues in the time-tested vein of run and gun 
 horror. This style of gameplay, undeniably, is old fashioned, it is also very good.
  
  Told via a scripted narrative that unfolds in real time, the story of Doom doesnt really stand 
 up to hugely close scrutiny, eclipsed, as it is, by the overbearing and mentally exhausting atmosphere. 
 Much of the atmosphere in the early game is bought about by Doom 3's innovative use of an orchestrated 
 soundscape, rather than a soundtrack. The industrial thudding and whizzing and pounding of machinery 
 constantly pounds into your skull, leaving you confused and.... bloody scared, the further you 
 get into the game the more organic and horrific the soundscape becomes; industrial clanging is 
 replaced by animal screaming and heartbeats and demonic laughter.
  
  All the familiar monsters return, with a few extras and a substantial facelift, they all look remarkable 
 and recognisable and leap and charge with silky, fatal mobility.
  
  If you are reading this then the game will run fine on your computer, I assure you.
  
  This 
 truly is a Doom game, and I am very happy with how it has turned out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 24, 2004 12:39 am PT
Review:  No single title in recent years has been more heavily anticipated than Doom 3, and as most of us 
 know, that's due in no small part to the gorgeous engine powering its visuals. It would be a mistake 
 to dismiss it as simply technology in a box, however. id has created a polished run-and-gun shooter 
 designed to keep the gamer involved and on edge, and in many ways, succeeds at doing so more than 
 any visceral FPS has done before. The game is an unabashedly old-school corridor crawl, providing 
 action-packed surprises around every corner, thanks to excellent pacing, a variety of enemies and 
 of course, superb production values that keep the gamer's hair standing on end. But as always, 
 perfection is fleeting, and the bland multiplayer and lack of gameplay variety and originality 
 may keep Doom 3 from being an evolutionary step in the realm of first-person shooters. However, 
 a surprisingly long single-player game and simple but intriguing story thread will please even 
 the most steadfast of skeptics. Atmospheric, challenging, and remarkably frightening, Doom 3 is 
 an excellent action game that stays true to its art but doesn't revolutionize it. 
  As an unnamed, unvoiced Marine on the Martian base of the Union Aerospace Corporation in the 22nd 
 century, you are tasked with locating a missing scientist. As it turns out, the mysterious technology 
 being developed in the base has an unexpected side effect: a gateway has been opened to let in 
 the legions of hell itself. With essentially no assistance, you travel through the UAC base to 
 the fiery depths of Hades in an effort to halt the invasion. Told through cutscenes, audio snippets, 
 and personal logs of the missing scientists, the story in Doom 3 is not remarkable, owing as much 
 to Half-Life as it does to the original Doom narrative being re-created here. Instead, we are given 
 the necessary backdrop to a demonic invasion, put through our reflexive paces, and led to the satisfying 
 conclusion of a heart-pounding thrill ride. 
  
  From the get-go, you are off and running, and the pounding beat of the bases machinery sets the 
 stage for the nail-biting gameplay to follow. Armed at first with a pistol, a flashlight, and your 
 fists, you must battle your way through the minions of the underworld. Along the way, you'll pick 
 up your trusty shotgun, a machine gun, rocket launcher, and chainsaw, amongst others. Don't expect 
 to use your fists though, or any of the grenades you gather along the way; this game is about shooting 
 guns, and there is plenty to blast on your trip to hell. The flying heads known as lost souls attack 
 you in packs, maggots leap with amazing speed, and transparent, skeletal revenants launch deadly 
 rockets at you in the Martian base, and later, in the bowels of hell itself. The action occurs 
 in eerie constricted spaces with black corners, complicated machinery, and the odd survivor here 
 and there. id has made the most out of a naturally cramped scenario by keeping the corridors and 
 cubicles grimly lit and filled with detail. When demons spawn or strike, the events may be scripted, 
 but they never cease to surprise for the most part. A few unannounced scares, like grates crashing 
 open or debris falling from above, seem somewhat cheap in the scheme of things, and at times, you 
 may accurately guess that a pinky demon is lurking in the gloom. But most of the frights are genuine 
 and are created by the darkness and the claustrophobia, simply because these elements are inescapable. 
 
  
  While at the outset you will have a few conversations with base personnel, as soon as you watch 
 the first imps teleport in, you will be going it alone, save a few seemingly unconcerned scientists 
 and your handy PDA. Your PDA will keep your mission objectives in order, but since Doom 3's linear 
 design isn't apt to keep most gamers confused as to their next task, it's main purpose is to keep 
 you connected with the base's former dwellers by way of emails, video discs, and voice logs. Not 
 only does the PDA provide some much-needed levity and backstory, but it adds life to your mostly 
 unaccompanied journey  and codes to personal lockers and ammo storage. Your other companion is 
 the all-important flashlight, essential for guiding the way through the grimy passages and unusable 
 when another weapon is equipped. A gameplay contrivance? Perhaps  but it adds further hostility 
 to the harrowing action by never allowing the player any sense of ease. 
  
  Therein lays Doom 3s greatest strength: superb pacing created from orchestrated frights; the gradual 
 addition of new enemies; and well-placed ammo, armor, health packs and stations. You will never 
 feel over-armed, but it is absolutely necessary to conserve your ammunition, lest you find yourself 
 cornered by imps without your trusty shotgun. Brilliantly, the ammo you find will often be exactly 
 the ammo you needed, and in this manner, id proves their intimate knowledge of level design. The 
 timing of weapons reloading is also as important here as it has been in any game, keeping your 
 decisions tactical and ensuring you conserve your shots; there is nothing more frustrating than 
 finding yourself faced with possessed marines - your primary ranged foe - only to find your medium-range 
 weapons depleted. Most importantly, you will always feel as though anything can happen, because 
 the games unpredictability will ensure you never know when or where the next surprise will be 
 lurking. 
  
  Events are largely scripted so that when you pass a certain point, imps may spawn, lost souls will 
 fly at you, and zombies may lurch from the black recesses of the room. They are never too much 
 too handle, and never so few in number that you arent challenged to some degree. In such confined 
 environments, there is little chance for any spectacular artificial intelligence to shine, but 
 each type of enemy has a style and pattern of its own. While zombies move slowly and are not much 
 of a hassle, imps are much more challenging, as they will not only fling fireballs but pounce on 
 you with surprising agility. Previously human adversaries do show some signs of intelligence, using 
 the environment to hide or tumbling gymnastically from one side to the other, but for the most 
 part, the thrill is in the inherent claustrophobia and the Mephistophelian multitudes within. 
 
  
  Almost perfect pacing does not necessarily make for variety, though. We applaud id for knowing 
 exactly what they set out to do and avoiding the mistake Legend made with Unreal 2: losing focus 
 by doing more than the game could accommodate, and giving the action short shrift as a result. 
 Doom 3 avoids these pitfalls by keeping its rich history firmly in sight at all times, but while 
 it accomplishes its goals with significant pizazz, we cant help but wish the goals were broader. 
 More than a decade has passed since the original Doom, and shooters like Half-Life, No One Lives 
 Forever, and even Halo have changed the scope of action gaming. ids unassuming decision to stay 
 true to its roots creates an interesting dichotomy, because some of the greatest aspects of the 
 series are also Doom 3s greatest liabilities. Confined, creepy environments make for tense gaming, 
 but also lend themselves to repetition. Linearity in level design keeps the experience cinematic 
 and allows the game to pace itself as intended, but limits replayability and sometimes feels over-scripted. 
 While the PDA adds to the immersion, and the levels are often superb in and of themselves, gameplay 
 itself remains unchanged from its predecessors. This will prove to be monotonous for fans of modern-day 
 shooters who have come to expect more variety in their action, particularly this year, with superb 
 games like Far Cry and Unreal Tournament 2004 raising the bar. 
  
  In an apparent effort to compete, id added an almost unnecessary multiplayer aspect, with four 
 game modes; deathmatch, team deathmatch, last man standing, and tournament. The game natively allows 
 up to four players, although some have already found a way to host more, and oddly, the few maps 
 included are simply too large for an action-packed four-player experience. There is simply no way 
 that Doom 3's multiplayer can satisfy even the most old-school deathmatch fans, when other games 
 offer so much more. Once again, traditional action is not a bad thing, and it is implicit that 
 Doom 3 is a single-player game, but we wonder if no multiplayer is better than limited multiplayer. 
 While we are sure the mod community will be on the case, this aspect is really a nonentity out 
 of the box. Luckily, the single-player game is quite long, approaching 25 hours, a nice change 
 from the relatively short FPS's of recent years. The higher price tag is a consideration, though: 
 particularly with other significant shooters selling at a slightly discounted cost upon release, 
 the five-dollar premium seems to be an unnecessary grab at our wallets. For the folks that enjoy 
 the visceral punch of the gameplay, though, the challenge of unlocking the hardest difficulty and 
 plowing into a replay may be too much to pass up. 
  
  There aren't enough superlatives to describe the incredible technology powering Doom 3's visuals. 
 Screenshots look beautiful, as we all know, but in action, the game is even more stunning. The 
 shiny, rubbery grain from early screens has been toned down, and instead, the famous bump-mapping 
 has produced the most detailed textures seen in a title yet created. Models look stunning, they 
 move fluidly, and are animated extremely well. The environments may become tedious over time, but 
 they are filled with small touches that make the UAC base seem incredibly real, such as interactive 
 computer monitors, soda cans, and wrenches on the floor, presumably abandoned by base workers. 
 The lighting steals the show, though, and every object you see casts a shadow, and every light, 
 no matter how seemingly insignificant, interacts with every model. Here is a pure example of graphics 
 adding to the gameplay experience. They are not just for show in Doom 3; in fact, it is mostly 
 because of them that standard gameplay has been enhanced to become something more than it is on 
 its own. Steam billowing from pipes, plasma beams from your weapon, salivating demons spawning 
 in a flash of light  all of this and much more make Doom 3 the best-looking game created to date. 
 As you can guess, Doom 3 will put your system through its paces; however, it looks stunning at 
 low resolutions and at most of its available settings, and ran at solid framerates on several test 
 systems. As long as your computer meets system requirements, Doom 3 is bound to look superb and 
 still be eminently playable. While we longed for more design variety, we must give credit where 
 it is due: this looks better than any game yet produced. 
  
  A frightening sight is nothing without the sound to give it substance, and the sound keeps its 
 paces with the graphics brilliantly. 5.1 surround sound grants the player complete immersion, and 
 is implemented with complete success. Aside from the game menus, Doom 3 features little music, 
 but it's of no real consequence, since ambient audio pervades every step you take. Grates creak, 
 machines vibrate and pipes hiss, always setting the stage for the more ominous buzzing of a spawning 
 demon or the screeching of a lost soul. Voice acting is actually quite real; listening to the audio 
 logs of UAC employees, it struck us that they sound exactly like the nerdy scientist, panicked 
 technician, or efficient supervisor they are portraying. There is no doubt that Doom 3's sound 
 design is the sonic equivalent of its lighting: moody, disturbing, and frightfully substantive. 
 
  
  So it's finally here. Should you play it? Absolutely  provided you don't expect Doom 3 to be something 
 it isn't. A gorgeous sci-fi shoot-em-up featuring the most stunning production values yet seen 
 in any game, its pacing and ambience are enough to overlook its linearity and lack of variety and 
 originality in its gameplay. Doom 3 is oddly compelling and exhilarating, and its excellent single-player 
 game will keep most players on their toes, even if the throwaway multiplayer brings nothing to 
 the table. Flaws aside, id has delivered a visceral cinematic experience that is easily recommendable. 
 We may have seen it done before, and we wish it did more - but we have never seen it done quite 
 like this. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrizzy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 24, 2004 12:06 am PT
Review:  Fans of the series have been clamoring for a new installment for about a decade now. Doom came 
 out first in 1993 and was met with mass hysteria and was widely considered to be the turning point 
 in PC gaming as we know it. Doom 2 came out the following year and tried to perfect what Doom layed 
 before it, and pretty much suceeded at doing so. Now, it's 2004 and Doom 3 has finally come out. 
 Nearly a decade later, does this old-school followup match the quality of today's current standards?
 
  
  The answer is yes -- but the answer is also no at the same time. You may be wondering how exactly 
 that is, so let's break it down in to some simple points. Doom 3 is gorgeous. Far and away it is 
 the best looking game on the market. From the wonderful lighting effects to the complex looking 
 character models, it is amazing through and through. 
  
  Where the graphics step in and take precedence, the gameplay counters and holds it back. Doom 3 
 is old-school, perhaps too much so for its own good. It has solid gameplay, yes, but it brings 
 almost nothing new to the table. You can basically say, played one and you've played them all. 
 That's the case with Doom 3. It's a re-telling of Doom's events with some of the enemies and weapons 
 from Doom 2. To put it bluntly, it's a candy-coated version of a game that's over a decade old.
 
  
  That's not a bad thing though. Doom is widely considered to be one of the best games ever made, 
 so what's wrong with a remake of that? Nothing, really, it just leaves an unfulfilling sensation 
 in your mouth after you finish lapping it up in the twenty or so hours it takes to finish the game.
 
  
  Aside from the game's shortcomings, it still offers one of the most horrifying single-player experiences 
 available today. It's a highly-recommendable and highly playable first-person shooter that no fan 
 of the genre should miss out. Let's get straight to the point, Doom 3 is a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stereolite
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2004 11:43 pm PT
Review:  This is my first game review so please just ignore all the errors that I'm sure are rampant in 
 this review. Well I beat it, took me two days of heavy play and basically it was one great game. 
 An 8.5 is rather low while a 9.5 is rather high considering once you beat it there really isn't 
 much else to do since the multiplayer is..... less that top notch. You could go through it again 
 on a harder difficulty but much of what made it so scary the first time though was the surprises 
 that the next time around you would be aware of. While the Doom 3 engine is great it can't hold 
 a candle to the new source engine and will be out shined.
  
  The single player experience is great while it lasts with some truly great graphics, especially 
 in Hell. This is one scary game, I haven't played a game that has scared me like this before. Turn 
 the lights off and turn your sound up and it will give you a truly creepy experience. Whether it's 
 the shadow of an Imp crawling across a window, the creepy whispers of an unknown creature, walking 
 though a small corridor and having a door snap open up beside you with a moaning zombie or the 
 sheer shock of opening a door only to immediately have a monster lunge at you with a loud shriek. 
 This game will scare you if you play it right. Another thing that adds to the fear factor but turned 
 out to be a love or hate thing was the flashlight, I for one loved it. Walk into a room that is 
 very dark, and oddly silent, so you whip out your flashlight and scan across the room, everything 
 looks normal until you turn and see that theres a jawless man standing not 5 feet away from you 
 and once the light hits him he strikes at you. These kind of things really make you jump out of 
 your chair. Though it really doesnt make sense that so far in the future we're still using little 
 flashlights, and don't even have any duct tape around to just tape them to the guns instead of 
 holding them. It still is in my opinion a great addition to the game. Since you can't see the whole 
 room with the flash light and you can't be armed with it either you will find yourself relying 
 on sound to tell you where enemies may be lurking.
  
  Though some of the sounds are recycled, like some ammo that just uses that sound from Quake 3, 
 there is also a lot of great sound effects as well, theres some great voice acting, but a lot 
 of the people sound the same as each other. The voice acting is well done though and the people 
 really sound as if they are trapped in a demon filled complex scared to the point of insanity, 
 this along with a lot of very creepy whispers and some great screams, roars, and moans the sound 
 really adds to the whole experience and at times the sound alone will scare you when it turns out 
 that theres not even anything there. The sound, though excellence, is not nearly as impressive 
 as the graphics.
  
  The graphics are probably the most thought about thing when you think of Doom 3 and it does look 
 simply amazing, but for me they dont really live up to the levels that people held them out to 
 be. Theres plenty of low quality textures and sometimes things look as if they have been coated 
 with wax. This aside the game still looks gorgeous and even with these small flaws its still the 
 best looking game out there now. Even the graphics help the scary feel of the game. It could be 
 that you're in a room and theres a body near the wall laying out, suddenly its starts to move 
 and some creature in a vent slowly pulls it in. Or it could be just walking through a hallway with 
 blood on the ground as if half a torso has been dragged through the hall. These small things combined 
 with the realistic look is a deadly combination. Doom 3 also sports some amazing lighting which 
 like just about everything else adds the scary mood of the game, with constant instances where 
 a creature is hiding in the shadows ready to pop out when you get close. The physics are once again 
 something that adds the feel of the game, but not as much as the graphics, lighting, or sound. 
 They are a few times though where they will be used to scare you, it could be a monster throwing 
 a barrel at you when you're walking up stairs, part of the wall or floor falling apart in a dark 
 room so you see movement, or a body swinging back and forth as it hangs by its feet. You can also 
 shoot or hit many things and they will move, fall, or swing depending on what they are.
  
  The weapons are the standard Doom weapons, nothing really out of the ordinary here. You have your 
 standard first person shooter set of weapons such as the Pistol, Shotgun, Machine Gun, Grenades, 
 and Rocket Launcher. Then of course you have the Doom type weapons such as the Chain Gun, Fists, 
 Chainsaw, Plasma Gun, and what would Doom be without a super over powered gun? Well it wouldn't 
 be Doom thats for sure so of course the newest model of BFG (The BFG 9000) , is in the game, I'll 
 let you figure out what the acronym BFG stands for yourself. It was slightly disappointing that 
 they used for most part the same guns as the other Doom games. Though you can use the flashlight 
 as a melee weapon the only real new weapon that Doom 3 brings to the table is the "Soul Cube", 
 a small box shaped weapon with engravings on it that has the power to destroy just about any monster 
 and restore your health after it kills something. This weapon is also the basis of much of the 
 story that the game revolves around,
  
  The premise of Doom 3 is that this high-tech Mars research base has been having some odd things 
 happening with an archaeology site leaving many of the people there spooked. When you arrive things 
 get bad pretty quick, some how a gate between Hell and Mars has been opened, and the only way to 
 stop the invading hoards from going to Earth from Mars is the Soul Cube. That is really all I can 
 say without spoiling what little plot there is. But there are plenty of hellish monsters to face 
 that make up for the plot.
  
  One thing that I noticed after beating the game is that the boss fights where some of the best 
 and most fun that I have ever played, especially the final boss. The enemies where also some of 
 the most creative and scary looking creatures I have seen. This game is very demanding on your 
 machine as you most likely already know, now I am running on a high end machine, but my 9800XT 
 didn't get along too well with Doom 3 and its many jumping and fast moving enemies. Constant crashes 
 filled the game and made reaching for F5 to quick save at every mildly important moment second 
 nature after the first couple of levels. But besides the problem with crashing it ran rather smooth, 
 I was able to keep a high frame rate on high settings even during intensive battles.
  
  Now if they had included co-op it would have brought the replay value up a tremendous amount in 
 my opinion, unfortunately they choose to leave that to the mod community. Now I know that they 
 left it out because "The game is meant to be played alone.", for the scare factor. While I agree 
 that it wouldn't be as good the first time through on co-op because that would take away a lot 
 of what made it scary, knowing someone has your back and it's not up to you alone. Once you beat 
 it by yourself it would have been fun to go back through the game with a friend and just run and 
 gun. The Xbox version will have it, so why not just go ahead and take the time to put it in the 
 PC version too? Co-Op would have easily made my rating higher and Greg would probably have given 
 it a higher score in value if it was included. My final score using GameSpots User Rating system 
 is a 9.0. What brought it down for me and probably others was the lack luster multiplayer that 
 didn't have the ever so elusive co-op mode that has seemed to slip out of PC gaming, the instability 
 it had with my high end graphics card, and the recycled sounds. But all in all Doom 3 delivers 
 on most of what it promised and is defiantly a game that no fan of the first person shooter genre 
 should pass up, it's another one of those games that shows that a game doesn't have to be revolutionary 
 to be great, especially in the first person shooter genre where many games are overlooked unless 
 they bring something really new to the table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rimnet00
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:04 am PT
Review:  Doom III come out after many delays, however I can stand here firmly and say it was worth the wait.
 
  
  Gameplay
  The Gameplay resembles that of old school counter-parts; Doom, Quake, Wolfenstein - as well as 
 some newer breeds such as Serious Sam and PainKiller. In a nutshell the Gameplay consists of working 
 your way through a fairly linear map with a vast arsineal of weapons. Most of these weapons appeared 
 in the previous Doom installments, and rest assured they are just as badass if not moreso. 
  
  The flashlight plays a big role in the game, and in many cases it is a hit or miss amongst 
 gamers. This is because you can not hold a gun and the flashlight at the same time. Some people 
 ask: "hey, I'm sure they had duck tape lying around" or "don't you think guns in the future would 
 come with built-in flashlights?". Well folks, I personally don't find it to be a big deal, because 
 I think the flashlight adds to the atmosphere that Doom III creates. I mean hell, if we were all 
 so damn picky we would complain about "stacking" in Counter-Strike and some might say, "why do 
 the Terrorists bomb a bunch of boxes?". 
  
  The A. I. is not too impressive, but frankly I don't feel it needs to be. This isn't the kind of 
 game that needs it. Zombies and monsters are supposed to be stupid, arnt they?
  
  My only issue is, the game feels pretty easy on the normal difficulty setting. I do however consider 
 myself to be an advanced FPS player so that may have a lot to do with it. However, one can always 
 put the difficulty higher and enjoy the game that way. 
  
  Graphics
  The Doom III engine simply put, is the most stunning and mind blowing FPS engine out there on the 
 market at this time [though you could argue that other games can be created with it] . However, 
 who would expect less from ID Software, considering they have been the leader since the revolutionary 
 Wolfenstein.
  
  Even on low settings the graphics are great. I can personally run the game on medium settings at 
 a resolution of 1024x746 with a constant 50 frames a second with a AMD 2000XP 512 DDR RAM and a 
 GeForce Ti 4400. The game also holds back some of its power for when the 512 meg cards hit the 
 market.
  
  Sound
  Doom III does not feature a heavy rock soundtrack that some people had expected. Instead you will 
 find things to be fairly quite, which leaves the atmosphere very eery. 
  The guns sounds are good, however I do feel that they could have been better. The enemies however 
 sound like they are right on.
  
  Value
  The game is longer then the average FPS, so you wont find yourself having the game beaten the same 
 day. The replay value in my opinion is not there, however for me, once you beat a FPS the first 
 time through I don't feel the need to go back to it.
  
  The multiplayer consists of 4 player DM or 2 on 2 DM with a bunch of different settings. Due to 
 the nature of the setup Doom III has, it is harder to host more then 4 players. However, mods have 
 already been released to include more people. I do not feel it is necessary to subtract points 
 for this reason and also because ID will surely add more options in the near future based on their 
 previous projects.
  
  The Mod community has also been eagerly waiting for the Doom III engine, and hence the fact remains 
 that people will be able to enjoy other's creations once some working mods hit the web. 
  
  Conclusion
  ID did everything it sought out to do, which was to create an amazing remake of Doom 
 and they did just that and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jocmaff
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2004 10:33 am PT
Review:  First my rig is:
  Pentium 4 - 2.4ghz
  1 gig ram
  nVidia 5900 Ultra 256meg
  Playing the game maxed out at 1024x768 res. It does get sluggish at times with the High Setting 
 on, but you cant fault the game for this, I just need to upgrade! As for the Ultra High Setting 
 (who has 512megs on their graphics card?) . Far Cry was a tad sluggish as well on my system to be 
 fair.
  
  I will make comparisons to two very good recent FPSs, Far Cry and Painkiller. Though Painkiller 
 cant compare to the lighting and shadows I still feel that such a fun game, with great graphics, 
 an absolutely amazing physics engine and interesting diverse levels is worth the comparison.
  
  
  I'll start with the good, I am so bummed that this part of the review is so short.
  
 
  The atmosphere in Doom 3 is absolutely phenomenal. This is the single best aspect of the game. 
 It really is quite moody and scary. This game has the best sound I have ever encountered. It keeps 
 you tense and on your toes though out the entire game. 
  
  The graphics are good but they are not the best graphics in any game to date. The graphics based 
 just on texture fall short of Far Cry and even Painkiller, (though to be fair Pain Killer has nothing 
 in terms of lighting and shadows, so it could afford have very detailed textures.) The lighting 
 effects in the game are also spectacular though I didnt see a huge improvement over Far Cry.
 
  
  The story is ok. I do like the tidbits of info you get from reading the emails and listing to the 
 voice logs. This adds to the very vibrant and alive world of Doom 3.
  
  GORE you have to love it, the chainsaw absolutely rocks!
  
  The level design is also great 
 except for every single level being cramped and dark.
  
  
  Now to the bad, and Im sorry but I find a great many faults in this game.
  
  First and foremost 
 Doom 3 is an impressive game that takes a lot of system resources. This means that unless you have 
 the absolute latest PCI-Express system you will not be running it full out. Why oh why do you have 
 to exit and restart the entire program when you mess with the display settings, which you will 
 HAVE to do to get the best performance for your system and your tastes. Now on to the game itself.
 
  
  Ok the scenario is 50 years or so in the future on Mars in a facility that is very dark by nature. 
 Why on Earth, or should I say Mars are the Marines not equipped with weapons that have a light 
 attached? We have these now in the present day!!! You cant even hold a one handed pistol and a 
 flashlight at the same time! And with the advanced technology from the UAC like the super compact 
 energy sources why do they not have adequate weapons for darkness? Fumbling between the flashlight 
 and your weapon is very cumbersome. Also, there is a small bug where if you climb a ladder with 
 the flashlight, or do something else (couldnt narrow it down exactly) your last used weapon is 
 no longer remembered and you cant simply hit the F key again to go back. VERY frustrating since 
 this is one of the major game functions. Use flashlight, spot enemy, switch to gun, see and shoot 
 into the darkness.
  
  This leads me to my next complaint. I can not believe how high all of the reviews have been for 
 the graphics in this game! If you take a good look many of the textures are blah and there are 
 many aliased edges in the game. Not to mention that most of the time you cant see very much in 
 the game because it is shrouded in darkness. The frame rate for this game has to have the largest 
 fluctuations of any game Ive played. It will be pegged at 60+ then as soon as you come to a room 
 with some light or enemies it drops by a factor of 4. And we all know there are very few enemies 
 ever in view at one time during this game. When comparing my screens from Far Cry to Doom 3, Far 
 Cry wins out by a huge margin. Even the screens from Painkiller look better though as I said before 
 it cant touch the lighting and shadowing of Far Cry or Doom 3. The weapon details in Doom 3 are 
 also weak compared to Far Cry and Painkiller. 
  
  Physics, what can I say here. Where are the dynamic physics in this game? Ooooo you can shoot a 
 few boxes and sometimes see an enemy fall IF they dont do it in darkness. There are very few dynamic 
 physics that I could really see. For instance in Painkiller it was a great thrill to stake an enemy 
 and see him torn backwards and stick into a wall hanging realistically from the stake, be it their 
 head, leg, or stomach it was simply amazing. Painkiller has an absolutely amazing physics engine. 
 There are countless areas in the game where you can shoot out balconies, train cars hanging from 
 cranes, the works! Same with Far Cry, I got so much joy out of killing an enemy and having him 
 fall and float in the water only to have me shoot him and see him twirl, flop and bleed into the 
 water. It was great! Also in Far Cry the environment is almost entirely destructible. In Doom 3 
 you can shoot an enemy and they dont move, react or even lose aiming accuracy. Few computer monitors 
 break, nothing but barrels and the very occasional piece of glass break or explode and you cant 
 shoot out lights not that you would want to make it darker anyways.
  
  This lack of physics leads to another point. You may say hey, Im walking through the game and 
 stuff falls all around me? This is one of the weakest parts of the game play for Doom 3. Nearly 
 everything is completely scripted. Pass this point and stuff falls and blows up. Go through a room, 
 completely clear it, then pass through the middle of the room and all of a sudden there are hidden 
 compartments that just happen to contain monsters right where you just were! I dont mind the demonic 
 spawning but please why are there special little hidden spaces just to hold monsters and a few 
 items of loot? Pain Killer was almost completely spawned in this manner as well though that game 
 was truly about fun, with great levels and a huge diversity of graphics and design, plus the most 
 kick arse looking bosses ever! (except for Satan himself) . The heavy scripting of Doom 3 is dull, 
 repetitive and not at all what I expected.
  
  In conclusion I have to say that Doom 3 in no way lives up to the hype. It is still a good game 
 and I am glad I bought it, but it leaves me feeling empty and wanting something more. I cant describe 
 how disappointed I am with this game. I have a hunch that the Half Life 2 is going to destroy this 
 game. My suggestion is to wait till it is a little less pricy and in the mean time pick up Far 
 Cry. This game totally rocks. Painkiller is also fabulous though it is more of a mass monster kill 
 and doesnt have the dynamic lighting and shadows that Doom and Far Cry have it is still extremely 
 fun with some unique twists. It has the best physics engine I have seen and some very sharp graphics 
 that will run on more systems than Far Cry and Doom 3. I cant give enough props to Painkiller 
 it is truly an amazing game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dstark9
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 22, 2004 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty impressed with this game. The physics involved with this game were without question 
 very very good. It was a very intensely creepy game. I have read some of the other reviews. This 
 game will definatly give you a good scare. I must admit it did get a tad repetitive due to the 
 fact that all you do during the game is shoot, load, and run. With that though... I kept playing 
 the game because it really caught my interest. The storyline was interesting as well.. I do think 
 Half-Life is going to be a better game when that finally comes out. The graphics as a whole were 
 probaly tied with Far Cry in my opinion as the best I have seen so far. I was a little disapointed 
 with shooting tv monitors and boxes with only a black spoch which lasted for a few seconds. In 
 my opinion walking in a room and shooting up a room can be a good release of energy. I'm not sure 
 why the game developers decided not to focus more on that aspect of the game.. especially since 
 it was supposed to be released like over a year ago.. I suppose I am glad we had to wait longer 
 because I would have hated to see how this game would have fared with a earlier release. All in 
 all the graphics are excellent and well worth buying just for that feature alone. The sound in 
 this game was very well done. The erie feeling of being in a dark room with a zombie moaning and 
 inching towards you as you switch from flashlight to shotgun was one of the best aspects of the 
 game. I have read some of the past reviews and alot of people who gave it low scores did not like 
 the game being so dark. If you want a good scare.. believe me when I say this... THE DARKNESS OF 
 THIS GAME MAKES IT VERY SCARY!!! The value of this game for $54 in my opinion a little high for 
 a computer game. I did pay the money, and it is worth the money, but I will give it a lower score 
 because that is the highest I have ever paid for a game and this game does not have any real groundbreaking 
 features. Plus Far Cry was a better game and much cheaper. On my negatives on the game, I noticed 
 that most of the soldiers that were dead or alive had the same face which was kind of lazy, but 
 there were alot of different monsters which made up for it. Also this Soul cube weapon did not 
 make sense to me.. it was kind of a pain to use and not really fun to use either.. also the BMG gun 
 was pretty dumb... it seemed like the most ordinary weapons were the most used. 
  In conclusion I would highly recommend this game and I think if you keep a open mind of how a Doom 
 game is supposed to be played you will really enjoy this game and not have any regrets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WetVein
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a great game. Is it ground breaking? No. Is it innovative? No. And its obviously not 
 original, so why is it so good? For me its the atmosphere it creates. Exploring the levels is 
 a truly creepy experience. And of course the beautiful graphics dont hurt. But those expecting 
 a game that will change their gaming life better look elsewhere. With all the hype this game had 
 it was destined to let some people down. But if you like playing FPS and want to check out what 
 Hell looks like before you die and go there, (a heads up is always nice ) you wont be disappointed. 
 But saying that, if I was poor and only had money for one game (or only had one wish left from 
 my magic game genie) I would wait for Half Life 2. From what weve seen of that game so far, it 
 makes me want to file for divorce. See ya on the weekend kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennMcHugh
Rating: 4.4
Date: Aug 20, 2004 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Talk about disappointment. When I spent more than average on a game that has been so highly 
 anticipated, I never expected that I would get little more than eye strain. 
  
  The game has some very impressive graphics and environments. Its a pitty that you rarely get to 
 see them. The game is so dark that it is almost impossible to see what you are doing. Even offices 
 and labs that still have power are so dark you need to use the flashlight. No one could walk there 
 let alone work. You spend almost all of your time switching between flashlight and weapon or waving 
 around the tiny flashlight to see enough of the room to decide where to go.
  
  While the graphics can be impressive, the physics are horrible. Shoot a cardboard box with a plasma 
 rifle and all it does is slide across the floor. Shoot it with a rocket launcher and it will have 
 a temporary black stain that fades away. Thats even sadder because most of the environment is 
 completely non-interactive.
  
  The enemy AI is pretty predictable. The biggest difficulty is that they literally materialize out 
 of thin air, frequently right next to you. When they dont, they jump from very dark corners as 
 you walk into yet another pitch black room. You switch to a weapon to fight, and are back in the 
 dark. Its not the AI that makes them dangerous, its fighting blind. There's no thought to the 
 game. You just walk forward in the dark until another monster teleports in.
  
  I wouldnt even recommend Doom 3 to the curious. If you want a good FPS, try Far Cry - nearly the 
 same visual quality with better gameplay, physics, AI, and story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RonRD54
Rating: 2.8
Date: Aug 20, 2004 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I was really disappointed with this game - after Doom I thought ID would have gone the distance. 
 Instead they were knocked out in the third round. I hated the fact that the other marines had enclosed 
 suits - yet I'm walking around with no mask, no IR and the weapons were nothing special. 
  
  All the stupid PDA's and access codes - got real tiring after three hours. I'm not real big 
 on FPS and playing the game for it's visual effects. There important but the story line has to 
 be there as well. I thought Far Cry was much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Granamere
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 20, 2004 11:21 am PT
Review:  The graphics are wonderful and the story line is fine. What is a major disappointment is ID forgot 
 what we want. The game is about shooting and blowing things up. It is not about hey look I can 
 either use my flashlight to see or I can shoot. Very few places in this game did I take damage 
 from the creatures because they out number me or they were better at something or they had better 
 weapons. I took damage because I could not see where they were or they spawned in on top of me. 
 Half way though the game you are going I do not want to open that door because when I open it guess 
 what another imp is going to be there to jump on me. Taking damage because creatures spawn in, 
 in front of me, behind me and I can not see all at the same time is not fun. It makes for a very 
 unfulfilling game that I can not recommend to anyone. 
  
  Granamere 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonathan_G
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 20, 2004 2:58 am PT
Review:  Ok, first off, what's with the Buffy the vampire slayer style deaths? Its Doom for flip sake. The 
 bodies should just lie there and you have to walk through them.
  
  Also, I thought the graphics were very boring and almost too CGI. Its hard to explain.
  
  Oh 
 and here's a spoiler to the story line.... Run down narrow corridor, pick up PDA, open door, walk 
 into room, lights go out, kill monster on front, kill monster behind, lights go on, go through 
 door, Run down narrow corridor, pick up PDA, open door, walk into room, lights go out, kill monster 
 on front, kill monster behind, lights go on, go through door AND repeat until end.
  
  The darkness gets annoying at times and I found the game pretty boring after the shock effects 
 of the monsters and darkness wore off. Plus, you can take most creatures out with one or two hits 
 with the shotguns... be it normal zombies or those huge dog things! What's with those huge dogs 
 being no harder to kill that a flippin fat slow zombie?
  
  Its very over rated and disappointing. Roll on Half Life 2 and Halo 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 19, 2004 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I read all the reviews about this game. They say it is a beautiful game that plays like a standard 
 FPS. To me it is like saying a Rolls Royce is a beautiful car that drives you to the supermarket. 
 This is one disturbing game. First of all the game is dark, real dark. The game gives off these 
 sounds that seem to come up all around you. They have these whispering voices which puts chills 
 up your spine. The game is 90 percent atmosphere and 10 percent gameplay. I always feel impending 
 doom because things jump out of places you would not expect. You really never feel relaxed, ever. 
 The game is a combo of Silent Hill and Red Faction. This game is a feast for your senses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fire_and_light
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 19, 2004 6:37 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I am an Id fan all the way back to Return from Castle Wolfenstein, not the remake, 
 the orginal that I played on my dad's 386 computer. 
  This game is very intense and a blast. Is it a lot like the orginal Doom in terms of gameplay, 
 yes. But that is not a bad thing. It is nothing revolutionary, except for the graphics. But when 
 you take the dark setting, intense and sometimes freaky sound, and the great graphics, it makes 
 for one great ride, and one that needs to be played with the lights off and the sound up. Dont 
 be suprised if it makes you jump several times. Would I recommend this game, of course. Unless 
 blood and violence bother you, this game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatzTeCow
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 19, 2004 5:55 am PT
Review:  I gave Doom 3 a 8.8, although being a fps fan I think it would deserve a better score. Actually 
 the only thing I expected a bit better was the gameplay. But hey it's a First Person Shooter after 
 all, so there's no need for complex gameplay and puzzles. In my opinion the graphics and sounds 
 are by far the most impressing I've ever seen (and I've seen alot in the last 10-15 years of playing 
 games across all platforms) and because of that i would give a 11 for both if I could. 
  
  If u never played Doom 3 at night, alone in a completely dark room, with a 5.1 sound system, you 
 don't know what fear and terror are. When I played the game for let's say two hours, I was really 
 getting nervous, my hands were shaking and my heart was bumping big time and every time a voice 
 in the game whispers, I looked behind me just to be sure there is no demon sitting there. So to 
 be honest, the "gameplay" might not be revolutionary, but the story is cool and the ATMOSPHERE 
 is nothing less than mindblowing. This game WILL take your breath away, but you won't like the 
 way the game is achieving it :-)
  
  You will love and hate this game at the same time, love it for the jawdropping graphics and sound, 
 the exciting plot and the awesome atmosphere, hate it for every time when the lights suddenly go 
 out, accompanied by a demonic snicker and the spawning of 2 monsters in your back. But I think 
 the love will outweigh the hate.
  
  Also good to see the mod community already being busy as a bee. I can't remember another game having 
 that many mods only one week after the release.
  
  My conclusion: 8.5 for normal gamers, 9.1 for fps fans. No matter where u belong, get the game 
 and experience the thrill of Doom 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Srinivassa
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2004 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game couldn't be more awesome, I swear!
  
  It's so dark and creepy and fun. I almost wish I could give it an 11 for graphics and sound. The 
 environments are scary as all getout. The sound just sends shockwaves through you. AND as you get 
 deeper in the game there's just so many holy *$ moments that keep you going, not to mention 
 worrying about what lies around the next corner. You learn to fear the sounds and lights when one 
 of those pentagrams appears and demons warp in to lay the smack down on you.
  
  Difficulty level is good (on the gameplay front) . There's nothing new to FPS veterans here, but 
 everything is done well. I'm not a big FPS person, and I can handle the "recruit" mode without 
 too much frustration. It's not a cakewalk though, which is nice. I'm looking forward to taking 
 again on a higher difficulty.
  
  All in all just a must-have title if your PC can handle it. (Mine is on the extremely low end of 
 the required specs, but it still looks darn good. Better in fact than anything I've ever played. 
 I'm looking forward to trying it out all over again when I have the money to upgrade!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhousl1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 18, 2004 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I decided to finish Doom 3 before writing any comments about it, which I have now done, finished 
 it that is.
  
  I must have played a different game from most of the reviewers in this forum, I thought it was 
 outstanding. Recently I completed Far Cry, so I have a good bench mark to judge it against. Atomosphere 
 was superb and really kept me on my toes, graphics speak for themselves, though the engine is tweaked 
 with some crafty texturing that gives a more "3D" appearence to walls etc.
  
  The mobs were great fun, in fact I will play through it again soon.
  
  I think people expected 
 too much, this is exactly what I hoped for. Well done iD.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gargoyle
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 18, 2004 8:11 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is not all that I was hoping for, but it is a solid game. The graphics are excellent, the 
 sound is good, and the gameplay is acceptable. 
  
  The only problem with the game is that other than with regard to the graphics, the game does not 
 break any new ground.
  
  The Good: The game is very scary, at least at first. Play it with the lights out and the volume 
 up with surround sound speakers. Later, you can watch someone else play it. The graphics look very 
 nice, even on lower settings, and the lighting in the game is incredible. The game makes good use 
 of the shadows. The game was stable, with no crashes.
  
  The Bad: After the beauty of the graphics wears off, the gameplay gets repetitive. Monsters teleport 
 in front of and behind you, making clearing rooms pointless. They will always successfully ambush 
 you, so you just learn to manage your health and ammo, and turn around to kill the guy that inevitably 
 tries to sneak up on you. Exploration is very limited. There aren't many side trips or any bonus 
 levels that I found to reward explorers, just a little more ammo or health. The PDA that you use 
 to listen to audio or view e-mail is amusing at first but wears thin after a while. The game seemed 
 too easy to me at the default difficulty mainly because there was too much ammo and a weapon that 
 recharges your health. Go to the Veteran difficulty if you are good at first person shooters. 
 
  
  The Ugly: You need a decent system to take advantage of Doom 3's graphics, and unless you have 
 a high end system you will still experience some low frames per second during larger fights. I 
 had an Athlon 2400 with 1GB of RAM and an ATI 9700 Pro with 128MB and it was what I would call 
 acceptable for single player play at Medium settings at 1280 x 768. I did download a beta driver 
 for the ATI card that helped performance with the game. Do a search on ATI's page for Doom 3.
 
  
  I have not played multiplayer yet, but have finished the single player game. 
  
  My overall impression is that this game is pretty good, but will not change the gaming world like 
 the original Doom or Half-Life. However, the engine is very nice and I believe that future games 
 created with this engine could be outstanding. It may be that Id spent too much time working on 
 the engine instead of the game, but it could pay off for us in the long run if other companies 
 license it, or if Id uses it in a better developed sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeronGorefiend
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 18, 2004 6:54 am PT
Review:  I did enjoy this game, but it wasnt what i wanted and i expected alot more.
  
  Dont get me wrong the game has many high points, being graphics and sound. Though I dont judge 
 a gazme soley on graphics and sound, i was hoping for more story, dynamic and evoling gameplay. 
 This looked more like a extremly over hyped doom 2 mod.
  
  You may think my score may be to high, and it is its just the graphics are that good and even I 
 cant let that go, but i played the went about half way through and couldnt see myself buying it. 
 Dont judge it before you try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 18, 2004 12:08 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I think ID should stick to making game engines, they stink at making games. I mean 
 come on, the mars base for one thing was designed for the creatures to hide in not for you, LAME! 
 Also where is the story at, I was expecting something deeper, I don't mean like Deus Ex deep, but 
 something more than shoot the demon find a key shoot another demon and so on. Further more what 
 is it with this trend in games to make the lead character mute. To be interested in the character 
 and care about him or her they need to have a personality, like J. C. Denton from Deus Ex, Cate 
 Archer from a spy in harm's way. That would make any game more immersing. Could you amagine Duke 
 Nukem without those great one liners. If duke was mute it would be just another shoot-em up like 
 doom 3. Sigh! Please whoever is reading this in the game development comunity, stop making zero 
 gameplay games like doom 3. The PC gamers in America I'm sure are a lot like me, they want deep 
 involving character driven, story driven first person shooters like Deus Ex and A Spy in harm's 
 way, not doom 3, or any other brainless, shooters. GIVE US QUALITY GAMES PLEASE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ralphpurtcher
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 17, 2004 5:08 pm PT
Review:  
  Doom 3 has an impressive graphics engine, but somehow I feel that there are many games that achieve 
 more in both gameplay and graphics with far less software technology, and far cheaper hardware. 
 Ninja Gaiden for the XBOX for example looks and plays far better in my opinion, and yet is squeezed 
 on to relatively restricted console hardware. Dooms gameplay is simplistic and repetitive, something 
 that one would expect of computer games 10 to 15 years ago. Im not against simplistic games, but 
 this game serves up just too much of the same old thing. In summary, I would say that as far is 
 content is concerned, Doom 3 is 80% tech demo but only 20% gameplay. Youll find the experience 
 initially satisfying, but the initial novelty rapidly wears off.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pportier
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 15, 2004 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game the day it was out. The graphics are great, of course, and it runs well on my 
 middle range PC (XP2800/ Radeon 9700 pro) .
  I've been very disapointed with the gameplay. It's very linear. You get frustrated very quickly 
 with the light / gun thing, it doesn't feel natural even after 2 hours of play. 
  Ok so it's supposed to be a very basic action game but it's not even that fast as an action game. 
 Serious Sam at least had loads of stupid ennemies coming at you very fast, to a point it got funny. 
 Sometimes Doom3 looks like it's taking itself too seriously.
  I know this game is supposed to be frightening but the tricks they use to frighten you have been 
 used so many times before that they didn't really work for me, especially when it's the same thing 
 after 3 hours of gameplay. 
  When seeing this game one has to wonder how the team at Crytek managed to pack so much freedom, 
 diversity and a graphic engine much more versatile (and not looking bad compared to Doom3) in Far 
 Cry in the same time it took ID to make his. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabidFerret
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2004 2:58 pm PT
Review:  There has been a lot of controversy regarding the 8.5 rating that Doom 3 received from Gamespot. 
 Since buying and beginning to play the game, I have gone back and forth with whether 8.5 was a 
 fair rating for this game.
  
  From my experience, Doom 3 goes through several distinct stages of play:
  
  Calm before the 
 Storm: This is the pre-demon holocaust, wandering around and developing the story. This is a players 
 first chance to check out the amazing graphics that Doom 3 has to offer and to learn the basic 
 gameplay. The graphics are truly the best thing to ever be seen in a video game, period, definitely 
 worthy of a 10. The gameplay is simple and straightforward not a lot of bells and whistles. The 
 story is good, definitely better than anything id has put together before.
  
  All Hell Breaks Loose: Everyone is either dead or possessed, and demons are running wild throughout 
 the base. Monster graphics are top-notch, and the scares come left and right. Combat is relatively 
 simple, much like the original Doom. The action and scares keep the story moving along.
  
  Another Dark Corner, Another Imp: This stage came after I killed my 100th imp and could usually 
 guess when one would pop out behind me. This is where the game started to get a little boring and 
 I started to see the points to Gamespots review. The action becomes predictable, the scares come 
 less often and the story becomes an occasional cutscene introducing a new enemy or a PDA audio 
 log (with excellent voice acting by the way) . There is a lot of backtracking down repetitive dark 
 hallways, no music to speak of, and the simple combat starts to get old. I almost gave up on the 
 game and gave it an 8.5 myself, but I fought through to the Delta labs, where things get interesting 
 again.
  
  Delta Labs, Hell and Beyond: Heres where it gets fun again. I cant say that the combat gets any 
 more interesting, but the scares are back with the trip to hell and the labs being taken over by 
 hell. The story gets interesting again with more details on the teleportation experiments, info 
 on the alien race, details on the demons, and a trip to the alien ruins. The ending is a little 
 anti-climactic, but it all sure does look good.
  
  After completing the game, I can say that I see the points that Gamespot made with its review, 
 although I feel it was a little harsh. The graphics were excellent, the value was excellent for 
 a first-person shooter (the game was almost too long) , the sound was only lacking some good music, 
 the gameplay, while not perfect, was still good, and overall I really liked the game. I think id 
 put together a great upgrade to the game that made them famous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perquak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 15, 2004 5:13 am PT
Review:  This game ROCKS. I can't stop playing it. My prior favorite this year was Painkiller, but when 
 it comes to scaring the living poop out of you, Doom 3 gets the nod. When you make your way through 
 the various corridors, trenches and rooms, you know that the various creatures are going to get 
 you, but you don't know when, where or how. The game sounds offtimes make you jump out of your 
 chair, or drop your mouse. Be ready to expect the unexpected. The pda feature is a welcome plus 
 to relieve the tension and adds an adventure-like aspect to the game. Doom 1 & 2 were great, but 
 Doom 3 is awesome. It's got my vote for game of the year (so far - let's see how good Half-Life 
 2 is when it's released) .
  
  Do you need the latest and greatest hardware to enjoy this puppy? Not! See my system specs below. 
 I'm playing the game at 800x600 reso at the high graphics setting, and encounter barely a hiccup. 
 This appears to be the sweet spot for rigs similar to mine. The graphics at these settings are 
 great - not as great as higher resos and the ultra graphics setting, but when you place yourself 
 into the game, you'll be so immersed in the gameplay that you'll barely notice the difference.
 
  
  They should provide the game with a box of diapers - they might come in handy.
  
  My System:
  
  Falcon NW Computer - Circa 12/01
  Athlon XP 1900+ with 1GB DDR PC2100 CL2.0 
 Ram
  Audigy 1 Soundcard
  ATI Radeon 9800 Pro w/256MB
  ATI Display Driver Version 4.7
  Windows XP Home SP 1
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheesySnax
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2004 3:20 am PT
Review:  This is the best game I have played all year. Doom 3 is fantastic from start to end. Don't listen 
 to the people who gave it a 2.7 and compared the graphics to a game from 93; they're just angry 
 they don't have the computer to run this. This game requires a hell of a computer, and if you don't 
 have atleast a Radeon 9600 xt (or a GeForce FX of the same power) don't bother.
  
  The gameplay is terrific. I love all the weapons in the game, from the Pistol the BFG 9000. The 
 audio logs are great and they provide a lot of insight as to what the hell caused the take over 
 to happen in the first place. Sound is great, from the creepy laughter to the moan of a shuffling 
 zombie, Doom 3 has some of the best sound I've heard in a game.
  
  I would recommend Doom 3 to anyone, as long as they had the computer to run it. Doom 3 is a great 
 game, and anyone who says otherwise either can't run it or has bad taste in games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Treesong
Rating: 5.1
Date: Sep 28, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  Boring. Really, the best thing I got out of this game was a strong urge to load the original Doom 
 on my Win 98 box and relive the actual *good* times.
  
  The game presents you with a constant mess of noise, radio-chatter, lighting, shadows, sparking 
 wires, steaming vents and broken rubble around you, all set in yet another run-of-the-mill ruined 
 high tech surrounding/laboratory, and the occasional zombie jumping at you makes NO impression 
 at all amidst this cacaphony of sound and vision. It is not scary at all, just annoying,
  
  And how could you be scared if there are no lulls in a game like this that put you in another mood? 
 The environment is almost entirely non-interactive, which could have helped in getting people more 
 in an explorative and relaxed mindset, opening lockers or shoving around papers, or getting a coke 
 from a vendormachine, after which they would be more susceptable for a good scare, maybe. Instead, 
 you are just hurried along through corridor after corridor, passing an endless amount of doors 
 that are either passable (green) or unpassable (red) , spurred on by yelled commands that add to 
 the cacaphony, in the meanwhile wondering if you had already passed this door earlier, or that 
 it just became passable because you have picked up an access card along the way, somewhere, while 
 hugging yet another non-intereactive Desk in some ruined office that all look alike anyway. And 
 the story: macho guy enters High Tech facility, 10 minutes into the game some experiment-gone-bad-aliens 
 take over and turn the entire compound into a thorough ruin in 27 seconds, and the rest of the 
 10 hours playing you get treated with a billion broken railings, tumbled crates, broken vents, 
 holes in the floor, shattered glass, sparking wires and off course a billion mindless monsters. 
 Linear gauntlet-runs like this are just no fun. Learn from Far Cry please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2004 6:32 am PT
Review:  This is exactly the game that was promised; The greatest graphics to date showcased within a conventional 
 but decent FPS. The flashlight thing doesn't make sense in a story about the future, but hey, its 
 a game, and the flashlight is central to the gameplay. But wow, those graphics. The metal on the 
 base has the cool kind of shine like nickel or silver, just beautiful. But make sure you can play 
 the game above 640/480 to get the effect. I've got an AMD 1900xp with a Radeon 9600 Pro, and the 
 game runs smooth emough for me at 1024/768 with aa/af turned on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pioneer
Rating: 2.1
Date: Aug 14, 2004 12:37 am PT
Review:  Pretty graphics, but the gameplay sucks. I won't even give the graphics full score because the 
 overdoing of the darkness and the utter lack of certain effects like muzzle flashes, and the virtual 
 lack of any destructible environment elements.
  
  The gameplay is very predictable, and some of the game design is incredibly weak. Why can't I hold 
 a flashlight in one hand and shoot with the other? I guess in the 23rd century they don't have 
 the technology to mount a flashlight onto the underside of a gun barrel? What about a roll of tape 
 - don't they have tape in the future either? Maybe some IR goggles? Nope...
  
  And how about some decent muzzle flash? All the great dynamic lights and they can't even do decent 
 muzzle flashes. As someone that's fired a gun in the dark before, they light up your surroundings 
 quite nicely - but not in Doom3... Guess they have low flash powder on their rounds too, how convenient.
 
  
  Many of the sounds are tinny and repetetive. I have a dolby 5.1 system and its totally wasted on 
 this game. Many gameplay elements that are standard to the genre are missing in this game - like 
 alternate fire for the weapons or some nice weapon variations that let you use strategy like the 
 satchels and tripmines in Half-Life. The whole scary ambience gets old pretty fast cause its all 
 the same 'open door, guy jumps out', or 'dark shadowy corner, oh look a zombie, what a surprise...' 
 not to mention all the cheap secret panels that open behind you (who built those compartments and 
 why? and why would a zombie just sit in there waiting for someone to walk by?) . Funny that they 
 release a game 5 years after Half-Life and still didn't manage as good a job on the 'Horror-Shooter' 
 feel. 
  
  The list of small annoyances goes on and on. I would have rated this game higher if they hadn't 
 taken 4 years to make it. What the hell were they doing all that time? Seriously, I expect better 
 from a development cycle that long. Except for some improvments on the engine there is absolutely 
 nothing original or groundbreaking in this product. ID has done very little to advance the FPS 
 genre since Quake 2, and this latest offering is as much of a dissapointment as Quake 3 was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2004 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Let's clear something up right now. Everyone who declares that Doom 3 did not live up to its hype 
 obviously missed what all the hype was about in the first place. ID never said the game would have 
 groundbreaking gameplay. They did howeevr say that the game would have graphics beyond anything 
 previously seen, with a tense, cinematic atmosphere to match, and you know what? They pulled that 
 much off with flying f*%@ing colors. To say that Far Cry has a superior graphics engine is just 
 blind adoration for Far Cry. Don't get me wrong, Far Cry was an amazing game with amazing graphics, 
 but the truth of the matter is, while Far Cry's graphics may have been more varied, the level of 
 detail, texture quality, and animation in Doom 3 is simply unrivaled in the market today. While 
 the gameplay in Doom 3 may not be groundbreaking, it is fucntional, and it is fun. Is that not 
 what really matters in the end? The bottom line is that Doom 3 is an artistic masterpiece, but 
 not a whole lot else, but then again, ID never promised much else. So all you people who are griping 
 about it being overhyped and not living up to it, just enjoy the damned game already. Stop complaining 
 about it and start basking in its beautiful graphic splendor. That is what Doom 3 is about. Nothing 
 more, nothing less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raxzor
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2004 4:32 am PT
Review:  My Doom 3 review from UK gamer.
  
  Ok this is my review on Doom 3.
  
  
  While waiting for the release of this game I have read many reviews and threads about it, but remained 
 impartial until I played the game. Kind of like the Swiss in WW2 sitting on the fence to see which 
 side would win. :D
  
  Tempted by my inner demons :p to pirate this game, I resisted and the day finally came. I wanted 
 to get the best out of the game so I defragged my drive, downloaded the latest version of DirectX, 
 overclocked my videocard with the latest Omega drivers and did that little tweak in the DoomConfig. cfg 
 then run the game. My 9800pro managed to give me High Detail with the res at 1024x768 and it was 
 flying. No slowdown at all, if I went to Ultra High things went a bit slow during some of the major 
 fire fights, and I didnt want to play it like this. So I kept it on just high, and to be honest 
 it was hard see any difference between the settings.
  
  The game plays like Doom 1 and 2, which some people didnt like but ID have been stating all along 
 that this is a remake so I didnt expect to much from gameplay, and I was right. The game at parts 
 became very tedious and repetitive, but this was remanded every time I meet a new bad ass from 
 hell, the spawning from hell sure are a pretty bunch, and kept my interest in the game.
  Hell was just spectacular with what I describe as the best level design on any go so far, and for 
 once being a Christian I actually welcomed going to hell. The scares of the game seemed a bit mundane 
 maybe it is my age, but I never once felt frightened by any of the scenes; but the sound and the 
 design did give for a general creepy experience. I dont see much replay level to the game, and 
 will only bring it out to pimp my PCs graphics superiority to my lame ass console friends.
  
  But overall an enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaggymcp
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2004 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Game was awesome and it scared me alot..... this is the only game that has ever manage to accomplish 
 this since Aliens Vs Preadator 1 & 2. There are some minor gripes I had about the game, such as 
 the switching back between the flashlight and your weapons, but it also added a really big scare 
 factor the game, but I would have perfered for some guns to have a flashing light with it such 
 as the pistal considering your char had a free hand ? Graphics are perfect, sound I had a few minor 
 gripes like the chainsaw sound when it scrapes metal... I don't know where that sound came from 
 ? lol Gameplay wise, they really did not invent anything new other than the scare factor with flashlights 
 and shadows, and multi is just plain borring with everyone just camping in shadows waiting for 
 others to walk by them...... Overall DooM III is worth every penney for the single player experence 
 by itself, but if you are looking for multi... think Half Life 2 will be the way to go for Multi. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pickle
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 12, 2004 9:43 pm PT
Review:  OK. So much has been said about this game: All I have to say is, Don't be hatin'. This game rocks. 
 Just play it and stop being such a little baby about every little detail (you can nitpick EVERY 
 game) . The Graphics are amazing, and that is what everyone freaked out about Far Cry; now D3 comes 
 along and somehow its different? this game is fun, it scares the hell out of you, and it is put 
 together with the technical detail you would hope every game would be put together. I think people 
 like to complain, just to complain. Great game, I highly recommend it if you are looking for a 
 single player FPS. And, I think the community as well as id will make up for hte lack of a multiplayer 
 campaign, given time. We shall see... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2004 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Great game! I am not an FPS fan in the least but decided to see what all the hype is about and 
 am not the least bit disappointed. As a matter of fact this game has scared the bejezus out of 
 me many times. If nothing else, Id has mastered the art of horror. Doom 3 has portrayed some of 
 the scariest moments I have ever witnessed in video game, television, or movie history. As a matter 
 of fact, I can only muster enough will power to play an hour or so before I have to stop because 
 the stress level can be too high. While this may not sound like great fun, it definitely shows 
 that video game entertainment can be as exciting as or better than any television show or movie 
 can offer.
  
  The graphics are top notch, but what really adds to the creepy environment are the sounds. This 
 game MUST be played with surround sound, or at least headphones. I have a nice pair of Zalman surround 
 sound headphones and those create the ultimate gaming experience with Doom 3. Hearing positional 
 sounds from the game while drowning out real-world ambient noise can greatly engross the player 
 in the game.
  
  On the down side, this game tends to get a little long in the tooth about two-thirds through and 
 becomes more like work than entertainment. Thankfully there are enough fresh ideas and constant 
 tension with surprises and moderate change of pace to keep any gamer intrigued until the end.
 
  
  It's well worth the $54.95 of the initial retail price, and a bargain at anything less. Just be 
 careful that you have the latest drivers and DirectX 9.0b installed, otherwise it may not work 
 well for you. ATI cards that are overclocked are suspect for graphics corruptions and/or "snowy" 
 images. But just turn off any overclocking and all is well.
  
  You'd be missing out on a great PC gaming experience if you pass this baby up. Just make sure you 
 are not of the faint of heart, and can stomach some creepy and at times, disgusting behavior.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBonez
Rating: 2.7
Date: Aug 12, 2004 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would be something special. You know, considering they worked on it for 5 years 
 and all. What a jip. They left out a lot of new features that games have now, like when you shoot 
 something your bullet marks stay there. There's been a great deal of improvement to games over 
 the past 10 months or so that make them much more realistic. Doom 3 is a big let down, it lacks 
 the old style of the original Doom series. Not to mention it makes you wonder around not knowing 
 where to go and its repetitive, boring computer locks, opening crates, that stupid PDA with the 
 boring emails and video. Also the graphics seem like they were from 1993. Compare this game to 
 something like Far Cry and you will agree it's a 2.7 all the way. Nice job ID. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdez6173
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 12, 2004 12:22 pm PT
Review:  There's an unfortunate side-effect of one-time supremecy in the game industry: you can release 
 an unimaginative, boring first person shooter and people will think it's the best thing since sliced 
 bread.
  
  Trivial gameplay was a novelty in the early nineties because there was nothing better. In fact, 
 we were all so amazed at the pseudo-3d nature of Doom/DoomII that we didn't care how mindless it 
 was.
  
  These days, mindless first person shooters, while still marginally enjoyable, are stagnant and 
 unworthy of a $50 price tag. Great graphics != great game, it simply makes for a tolerable tourist 
 trip which becomes old after you've completed the initial drool over the same pixel shading, volumetric 
 shadows, etc.
  
  One of the best features of a mindless shooter is the body count. And Doom III doesn't even leave 
 you with that. There's a decent, but forgettable, death disintegration animation and you move on. 
 I guess that's because all of your GPU time is spent rendering the wrinkles on the NPCs faces to 
 be able to deal with the extra rendering of countless bodies.
  
  Simply put, I think Painkiller, while flawed in other areas, is a more satisfying game.. And that's 
 unfortunate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FistofHomer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2004 9:54 am PT
Review:  This is the first review Ive ever done on Gamespot. Im only reviewing the single player mode. 
 I too, at first thought Doom3 might be too dark. Then I realized that this is a crucial aspect 
 to the experience. I did adjust the brightness level up a bit. Furthermore, you cant have ambient 
 light around the monitorit needs to be fairly dark in the room youre playing in. Yes, the flashlight 
 might be out of place for a futuristic marine but once you program the flash-light to an accessible 
 key on your keyboard, you can get light quickly when you need it. Besides, maybe one can imagine 
 a flash-light as just more accessible at the time than a helmet with light -- maybe inventory was 
 low, etc. 
  
  This game in my opinion is under appreciated on Gamespot, (8.5) . I think Im probably midway through 
 it and the reason I havent finished it is because I cant always keep playing (but I cant stop 
 playing) because it is doing such a great job of creeping me out. Now maybe my age, 34, is contributing 
 some to the fear factor. I. e., younger people tend to have a higher threshold I suspect, but 
 I dont know if this is it.
  The graphics, universally conceded, are phenomenal (best ever in FPS) , and the sound is incredible. 
 But mostly, its the atmosphere of Doom3 that makes it a gaming masterpiece (the darkness is assisting 
 this) . There were moments in Half-Life that did this but not as persistently as Doom is doing. 
 The more I play, the more Im convinced that in fact, the way this game is immersing me is achieving 
 new heights in gaming and indeed is making me realize the future of gaming and how it relates to 
 the movie industry or great storytelling. Now the storyline may not be the greatest ever written 
 but I think if people play this game on a solid PC with a capable graphics card, with a headset 
 or decent speakers, in the dark, alone, and go with the storyline premise, they will understand 
 the superb atmosphere this game achieves. Its simply ass-puckering intense! This game is affecting 
 me in ways Ive never been affected before by a game. 
  I know our expectations in the Gamespot community are huge but I think some should reassess what 
 Doom3 is achieving. Doom3 was masterfully created (a very grateful THANK YOU to ID) , and having 
 seen many games on Gamespot reviewed over the years, I really cant believe its not well into 
 the 9 range. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tremor11
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 12, 2004 6:13 am PT
Review:  Do great graphics make a great game? Doom 3 settles this argument with a resounding "no". 
  
  Look, I like graphics as much as the next guy, but Doom 3 has been done before, by the same 
 id people in fact. There is no creativity in the rehashed Doom 1 story. Don't expect to find any 
 ingenuity in the gameplay. (Find PDA open door, find next PDA, unlock elevator, etc, etc.) If the 
 graphics were not as profound as they are, this game would be getting reviews in the 3's and 4's. 
 That's the hard truth.
  
  Sadly, the fact that the game has been in development for 4 years really shows. It's a 4-year old 
 premise with 4-year old gameplay. I really don't see what held it up for so long. Sadly, id ran 
 out of genuinely NEW ideas around 1996.
  
  I really shouldn't even mention the multiplayer, because as of now, it really sucks. Lag, lag, 
 lag... unless you happen to have access to a NASA supercomputer that is. Only allowing 4 players 
 out of the box is just about as lame as you can get. Thankfully the mod community, which has more 
 good ideas than id ever did, might be able to fix that.
  
  Save your money, Doom 3 proves once and for all that great graphics do NOT make a great game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fidothe
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 12, 2004 1:46 am PT
Review:  It's 3am on a tuesday night, I open the box and continue to install the game. Turned off the lights, 
 kicked on the surround sound and booted it up. First thing I noticed are the graphics, wow, I have 
 a pretty horrible machine.. but everything still looks amazing. This is when I first noticed the 
 "darkness" issue. I turned up brightness... then I turned it up some more... then I just turned 
 it all the way up... still to dark but I continue on anywyas.
  
  I begin my first mission, which is to rescue a missing scientist. After looking around and talking 
 to ranbom people, I find him.
  
  This is the point my heart was pumping, the music made the whole thing very tense. Then all hell 
 broke lose, literaly. crys for help from fellow marines and the sounds of loud footstep overhead... 
 think my sister who was watching pasted out at this point.
  
  Welcome to doom 3. Single player is intense, there is no denying. I'm happy with it, although I 
 do which they could have included atleast a FEW well lit rooms, and toggling between gun/flashlight 
 gets very frustrating after a few hours. 
  
  Online aspects of the game are well... boring... unfun.... *cries* hopefully modders can save it 
 as standard (4 player max!) deathmatchs get old real fast. (there is a fix for the 4 player online, 
 altough 12 seems to be max.. and its still boring)
  
  Buy it if all you really want is a awesome single player FPS, or you can buy it and hope online 
 gets a major face lift... all I really want is some friendly co-op. here's for hoping this come 
 true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Locke1775
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2004 12:39 am PT
Review:  I would have to say the Gamespot reviwer has a very fair review of Doom 3.
  
  Gameplay: There is nothing completely revolutionary here. For the most part it is a plain "shoot 
 'em up" game. The "scaryness" definetly adds to the gameplay which makes it better than average.
 
  
  Graphics: Best of any game. Ever.
  
  Sound: Not bad sound. Music and sounds are mostly just loops. Sometimes the music changes for tougher 
 monsters. Also the 5.1 support helps give this an above average score.
  
  Value: It would be hard to give this game a 9 for value considering it costs $50.00 at most retailers. 
 And this buys you an awesome single player game with very little multiplayer replayability. One 
 can just hope the mods will change this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: covenant130
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2004 12:03 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 ALMOST lived up to my 10/10 expectations. First of all, ill start with gameplay:
  
  This is one area where the game lacks a little. Yes it DOES get repetetive at times, but the amount 
 of scares keeps the gameplay up, because you are constsantly changing between your gun and your 
 flashlight (which is a good thing in my opinion) which gives the game a bit of a stradegy. It IS 
 mostly run and gun, but i have had to use cover multiple times, so your not invincible.
  
  Now the graphics: :O OMG!!! That pretty much sums up the graphics. I have seen no jaggies, and 
 no slowdowns ever! And the game looks absolutely amazing! In my opinion, it is the best looking 
 game that has ever been achieved by man. Im running it on High and it looks better than far cry, 
 and High isnt even the highest setting!
  
  Sound: I do not know why GS gave the sound an 8. If its because of the lack of msuic, i dont care. 
 Im REALLY glad they didnt put music in the game, or it wouldnt even be half as scary. The monster's 
 sounds are amazing, and they always creep me out when i cant see them.
  
  Value: I would have given the value LOWER, but just thinking of all the mods that wil be coming 
 out because of the advanced engine, i just couldnt put it down. As for single player, it will be 
 greatly improved, although its already great, because of the co-op mod that is supposedly in the 
 making. As for Multiplayer, it IS a little slow right now, and i have been experiencing lag problems, 
 but even then it is still quite fun.
  
  Tilt: Overall, i think this game is great. I did find the game a little easy, even on the veteran 
 difficulty, but that changes once you get OUT of Hell. PLus there is an added Harder difficulty 
 after you beat the game once. OVerall i think Doom 3 is a great FPS that anyone (with the hardware) 
 should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masoumi
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 11, 2004 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Sadly, this title is one only those with a powerful computer rig will even be able to begin to 
 apreciate. This automatically cuts down a very large percentage of the PC gaming population. Since 
 the engine DOOM3 runs on isn't scaleable, low end PC users might as well look past this title as 
 the game is almost unplayable. 
  
  In terms of gameplay, there isn't much here to see that hasn't been seen before. It's a lot of 
 running and gunning. We have seen games such a Painkiller, Serious Sam and others pop up and these 
 games I feel are more successful then DOOM 3. The reason is, games like serious sam, which don't 
 attempt to be anything other then a total viseral shooting experience do so and deliver plenty 
 of shooting, in spades. However, Doom 3 really doesn't have that kind of feeling. You'll be fighting 
 one or two guys at a time. This isn't serious sam by a long shot. 
  
  Next, throw in some MINOR puzzle solveing here and there, some key/door hunting and you've got 
 your basic gameplay of Doom 3.
  
  
  I won't get in to the gfx as they have been covered by everyone else. What I will say is this. 
 Doom 3 offers one of the most dissapointing game packages to date. Most people work their asses 
 off for their money, and to expect someone to shell out 50-60 bucks on a game with as little to 
 offer as Doom 3 does is inexcuseable. A single player experience with 0 replay value clocking in 
 at roughly 10-15 hours, and a laughable attempt at multiplayer makes this a NO BUY! There is no 
 replay value in this game at all. Keep your monies people, and wait for HL2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameplanet
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 11, 2004 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 es uno de los mejores juegos que hay disponibles para la PC, en definitiva es un juego que 
 esta destinado a convertirse en todo un clsico, adems es la excusa perfecta para upgradear tu 
 Pc. Este juego no solo incluye unos cinemas que compiten fcilmente con cualquier produccin de 
 Pixar, tambin incluye un sistema de juego y unas fsicas que en verdad te hacen creer que estas 
 dentro del juego. El punto en contra que le veo a este juego es la luz, el estar prendiendo y apagando 
 tu linterna para poder ver en ocasiones se vuelve frustrante y hace que muchos puntos fuertes de 
 este juego, como el diseo y detalle de todos los enemigos pase desapercibido. Este titulo es un 
 juego que no puede faltar en tu coleccin y como te dije antes es la excusa perfecta para upgradear 
 tu PC y estoy seguro que te mantendr ocupado un buen rato hasta que salga Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teemupii
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 11, 2004 9:32 am PT
Review:  After getting to hell I'm ready to give my review...
  
  Game's graphics are best that you can get at this time. My Athlon XP 1500+/512MB with Radeon 9800Pro 
 are capable of running this game in 800*600, at medium details with antialiasing on, so you don't 
 need the best hardware to run the game without loosing its "magic". I have tried to play the game 
 with higher details, but it doesn't look much better. Far Cry demanded more power than this game, 
 so I think Id has done good work while optimizing the game.
  
  There isn't much of a sound or a music in this game, but actually I don't miss them. The guns' 
 sounds should have more "balls" with 'em. Shooting with BFG sounds like a shooting with a sling! 
 I have no idea why the testers didn't noticed this.
  
  The game lasts longer than games today are used to. 90% of the game you are in the research facility 
 which looks the same, and 10% in the hell. I have to say that I hoped there would be more places 
 to visit, like more outdoors etc. but anyway you don't get bored. I don't agree with Greg that 
 this game is too dark. There is enough light, but of course there are few places (traps) where 
 you must shoot the enemies in total darkness. And if you want to find most of the health and ammo, 
 you must use your flashlight to check the dark corners.
  
  Doom 3 looks great, sounds ok, but something is missing. It's just Doom I/II with great graphics. 
 If you don't expect anything else, you will not regret if you buy this game. I think that Greg 
 expected too much. This game isn't groundbreaking, but it is a really good FPS. Maybe in future 
 we will see great games using Doom III engine. Actually I have waited the engine more than the 
 game itself, but now it seems that the Doom III engine needs a lot of work to be a great outdoors 
 engine (I don't see any other reason why there isn't more outdoors levels) . Game is quite easy 
 in the normal difficulty, so if you have played few FPS's before you should set the difficulty 
 to maximum along setting the mouse sensitivity to maximum also. Although I enjoy games with more 
 realism, e. g Call of Duty, Doom 3 was really enjoyable as long as it lasted.
  
  Ps. If you don't play this game alone in the night, you are missing a lot. A got scared in few 
 places (first time in any game) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon-Winters
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 11, 2004 12:48 am PT
Review:  It's amazing how many people have criticized this game for being something that it isn't. 
  
  It's not a tactical first person shooter, although some tactics will go a long way in your 
 survival. 
  
  Others have criticized the lack of "alt-fire" modes, which have become standard in other FPS's. 
 In most firearms, there is not any other way to fire the weapon (with the exception of full auto 
 and burst modes on some automatic weapons) . This game is not supposed to be a tactical team-based 
 shooter, where you and a squad of kick-ass marines parachute into a base and start hauling ass 
 with Chain Guns, it progresses you along with the type of pace you would normally see in a Survial 
 Horror game like Resident Evil.
  
  My only real complaint is how it taxes even the most robust systems available. This shouldn't come 
 as a suprise. Most of us old enough to remember the "original" Doom, also noted that Doom often 
 taxed existing systems which required it to be run with a smaller screen. 
  
  Doom 3 is a worthy succesor to the original series. While it adds features that were not present 
 in the original, it does not become a burdon on the player to keep up with himself. 
  
  Those who unfairly criticize this game, do so because they expected something that Doom is not. 
 
  
  Doom 3 is Doom. With it's wrinkles and weaknesses, and strengths and achievements. It's not Doom, 
 it's more like DOOM AMPED. And trust me, once you start playing this, you too will be amped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrplaid
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2004 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Since I'm a slave to peer pressure, here's what I think about Doom 3 presented in a point/counter-point 
 fashion. Obviously, it looks great, but some of the monster designs are still a little goofy. It 
 ran well enough on my now archaic machine in spite of a few hiccups here and there. The ambient 
 sounds and monster noises really bring the game world to life, but the weapons sound weak-sauce. 
 At it's best, the game is reminiscent of the running and gunning of the old Doom games. However, 
 having to listen to overly-long audio logs or read e-mails on the various PDA's scattered throughout 
 Mars hurts the game's pace. They add to the atmosphere of the game, but it would have been better 
 to run across fewer of them. The game is also way too easy on the default difficulty setting. Doom 
 3 is a fun and pretty game (and a game whose engine modders and professional developers are sure 
 to do wondrous things with in the coming months) , but it is not revolutionary. Since you've already 
 got a computer tough enough to run it, do yourself a favor and check out Far Cry (all three of 
 you who haven't) once you've beaten it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KPMaker
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 10, 2004 10:40 am PT
Review:  Great graphics, but limited game-play.
  
  Yes I did beat it, as did many others that put up with the many shortcomings.
  
  What Doom 
 3 does it does really well. But you would think that they could of added to few more aspects to 
 the story line. It can get repetitive and boring after a while, although this could have been avoided 
 with a few added features.
  
  They should have added more missions with squad support, mixed in with a few more of the bad guys. 
 I mean say just 3 more, thats it; it would make a huge difference. Say one mid way through, and 
 2 closer to the end, a group of guys actually making it together, not just the typical lone hero 
 that saves the day against overwhelming odds. The part where you get to follow that little droid 
 was pretty cool, but short-lived.
  
  The flash light issue is real annoying, I understand they're reasoning with the submersion into 
 this type of environment, but not being able to see can get pretty annoying, the scariness goes 
 away due to the frustration. Maybe keeping it like this for the first 3 missions, well the 2nd 
 and 3rd actually would of been cool, then allow this high speed marine to find that wonderful invention 
 called duct tape. Another option would be to allow say 60% of the weapons to have the light built 
 in.
  
  The lack of Co-Op Online really, really, I mean really pisses me off, especially in this day and 
 age. I understand that they wanted you to get emerged into the being alone, scared out of your 
 mind experience, that's all well and good. But in the name of common sense add the option to play 
 online together with another person. They could of even added an aspect where the two players get 
 separated on more than one occasion, but are still able to communicate. Remember more options and 
 greater variety make for a much more enjoyable and longer lasting gaming experience.
  
  You can re-program the hot keys, a plus. The cinematic sequences were done really well; the first 
 mission was perfect for the set up of the game. The occasional lone survivor, or half dead survivor 
 is really cool, but would have been better mixed with more squad support. The PDA was a great feature, 
 audio and video files, e-mail access was a nice touch, not enough of them though.
  
  The sound of the weapons is lower than normal, but works for me since I live in an apt with very 
 thin walls. The other sounds you hear through out the game were excellent, really added to the 
 creepiness of the environment, this including both the music, the pieces of metal falling just 
 as you enter a new hallway, the dim sounds of movement not to far off, and so on
  
  MP, very limited, old real fast with only 4 players. Although that Co-Op I already mentioned would 
 of helped a great deal with on-line play ;)
  
  Overall I still had some fun, but still a little disappointment with the lack of more game-play, 
 (Co-Op Online being #1) , and story-line options, (Deeper Main Character, more additional characters) .
 
  
  Would I recommend this game, for $40- yes, for $55- Hell (Pun intended) No. I got it for $45, but 
 still $5 more than I would of paid for it. But since its the silence before the storm of games 
 in September, I forked over the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambios
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2004 7:22 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an excellent FPS. Does it create a frightening experience? Yes. Does it play smoothly? 
 Yes if you have a powerful machine. Does it remain consistent to the DOOM mythos. Yes. Are the 
 graphics superb. YES! Does it innovate in level construction and design? NO. Is it a fun game? 
 YES. 
  
  I do not understand the negative critiques of this game. It is saddening to read reviews that slam 
 a technologically advanced game such as DOOM 3. I don't think the world appreciates the dedication 
 and strenuous work required to create a quality computer game. 
  
  DOOM 3 is fanstastic. An experience to be savored. A game that at times scares the sh*&@! out of 
 you. Immersion? Yes big time. Could it have been better. Yes, I think so. But big deal! I love 
 the game.. worth every penny. My deepest congrats to the ID team for delivering a great gaming experience. 
 That is what we need more of right? Great gaming experiences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navahmed
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 10, 2004 4:37 am PT
Review:  In the year 2004, six years after Half-Life, if only Doom 3 could mimic some of the gameplay mechanics 
 of Half-Life instead of copying the intro it would have been hell (no pun) lot better.
  
  I would have definitely welcomed a shorter version of this game. Doom 3 suffers from repetitive 
 game mechanics that get old too quickly. Compare this with Prince of Persia : Sands of Time that 
 was saved by its shorter game length. I have no problems with flash light issue, it is stupid but 
 it was a design decision by ID. It shows that they were really short on the creative side when 
 it comes to create a tense and suspenseful environment, but in the gameplay one gets used to it 
 like one gets used to crouch. Some people say that the game should be played till the end before 
 writing the review. This highlights the problems with the game, if it is boring enough in the middle 
 why one bothers to continue till the end? And even if one does, how can it be a wonderful experience 
 if it got boring as hell (pun) in the middle?
  
  It must be acknowledged that ID outdone themselves with Doom 3, but they were forced to do it. 
 The genius of Carmack cannot save them all the times. Had they created something like Quake 1 or 
 2 with this engine, the response would have been worse. The bar for FPS since Quake 2 has been 
 considerably increased and one wonders if after 4 years ID can only come up with a mediocre game 
 like this then maybe it is better that they should ask some other company to showcase their technology.
 
  
  ID is working on some new technology, and new IP. Good Luck to them, but they better hire some 
 good designer/story writer for it. In any case, world will always look forward to the next ID game 
 because of the new technology, but I am optimistic that one day we will see a game by ID that will 
 do justice to their incredible tech. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Montague
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 9, 2004 11:08 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun and addicting, but it definately has it's flaws. One most notable is the fact that 
 they have these awesome graphics, but you never see them because the game is so dark and the flashlight 
 issue, you spend 70% of the game shooting into shadows hoping you hit the demons. Then with no 
 warning and no possible way of knowing it was coming, another one hits you from behind. Even if 
 you adjust your gamma on your graphics card, it is still difficult to see some of the monsters 
 leaping around in the shadows. I have speant a lot of the game shooting and running back to a lit 
 area and firing on enemies as they rounded the lit corner where i could see them. THey made the 
 game so dark cause they wanted to make it scary but it is the equivalent of shooting rifle into 
 a lake and hoping you hit a fish, except these fish bite and bad! 
  
  The game is fun when you can actually see, and the lowered weapon sounds in my opinion is kinda 
 nice since you don't have to turn it down so your neighbors don't get pissed from the loud sounds 
 of a Machine Gun going off, or the other problem of turning the game down because the weapon fire 
 is so loud but then you can't here the rest of the game.
  
  Ok, gamespot's review they said only 2 or 3 monsters, i have seen a lot more than that in some 
 spots. There is usually 2 or three, not only. The choice of extending the bridge or doing something 
 else, if you go down in the lower pit it is a booby trap and at least 6 maybe seven spawn at once 
 and they respawn 2 or more times (i wasn't counting, to busy flinging lead down range but i know 
 there was a lot of them) . And those dern spider critters are a serious pain with the overwhelming 
 numbers and always in very small spaces.
  
  ok, i have ranted enough. The really nice new graphics and then not being able to see them is my 
 biggest beef, oh and shooting blindly into the dark hoping to hit something, other than that, it 
 is great and very addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOLTOX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 9, 2004 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a great game not excellent. It will give you tons of scares, will make you jump and cry 
 Mommy! From a technical standpoint this game does not meet the hype that surrounded it during development. 
 Physics modeling of characters is subpar when compared to Far Cry. After a while of playing the 
 levels don't really vary that much in style. On the other hand, the sound is actually quite good. 
 The shotgun sounds quite powerful and gives you a really good feel for tension. What is amazing 
 about this game is how good it looks even at very low resolutions (i. e. 640x480) . Even at this 
 low resolution the game looks very clean and polished with sharp textures. The A. I. unfortunately 
 is mediocre at best. There are a couple of scenes where they seem intelligent but once the script 
 sequence is over then they all at sudden become really dumb. The game can be hard depending on 
 your playing style and difficulty setting. Overall, I think it is a great addition to the FPS world 
 but I don't think it provides enough game-play value to deserve a higher score. Don't get me wrong 
 the game is worth playing and will be quite fun. However, I would wait until the game hits between 
 $35-$40 mark before buying it. Please don't upgrade to very expensive video cards for this game 
 because seriously even at 640x480 and high settings the game looks amazing and plays great. Far 
 Cry is a far superior product when compared to Doom 3. Let's see what Half Life 2 brings to the 
 table! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betelgeuse
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2004 9:02 pm PT
Review:  What a tease. The start of Doom3 gave me so much hope. I was amazed with the graphics - the lighting 
 was perfect; the execution of the computer consoles was brilliant. I actually loved the whole PDA 
 thing with the emails and voice recordings - it added a nice touch to the game. As for being scary, 
 it was scary... at the start. Then as I played on, things started to bother me...
  
  I mean, it's been what - 10 years? since the FPS genre came to be. It's come a long way. I mean, 
 back then you couldnt even aim up and down. But it seems like despite all the progress made in 
 this genre, doom 3 decided to forgo half of what makes fps's great today. Things like secondary 
 fire or even a melee attack using your weapon.
  
  And the darkness... was it Unreal where at the start, the lights go out and all of a sudden you're 
 being chased by a big alien? Yeah, that was good. It was also kinda cool in Doom 3 the first time. 
 But why does it happen in EVERY room. And why do I have to choose between being able to see and 
 being able to shoot defend myself? Yeah, that's really clever.
  
  And seriously, the one thing I hated about Doom1-2 was when monsters would pop out of these small 
 sealed off rooms as soon as you passed them. WHY did you bring that back?! That has to be the most 
 inane thing the world! Why are they in there?! Who put them there?! Who let them out!? That's not 
 good game design. 
  
  I can understand people saying that the reason Doom3 is the way it is, is because it's SUPPOSED 
 to be a kickback to the old genre. But look at games like Metal Gear Solid that manage to retain 
 the oldschool feel with all of the progress we've made so far in the industry.
  
  ending note: you cant climb a ladder while holding a rocket launcher. that's almost as dumb as 
 being able to kick with both feet in duke nukem 3d. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MANHAZARD
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2004 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This was a really good game, I'm still enjoying it. Very good quality, very well put together and 
 very well presented. I enjoyed the more realistic approach to the same Doom I played years ago, 
 instead of an unrealistic horde of sprites attacking you all at once this game takes you and pits 
 you against your fears with scary and exciting encounters all throughout the game. You never know 
 what's going to happen next. I also like the fact that it's basically a remake of the origional 
 Doom so for old-schoolers like me can remember and appreciate the evolution in graphical technology. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f00
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 9, 2004 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I agree with Gamespot's review for the most part, but am a bit more on the negative side of the 
 game. The graphics are intense and amazing. The approach of the monsters are sweet and wonderful 
 to watch repeatedly.
  
  However, the gameplay is derivative as previously stated. Towards the middle several hours of gameplay, 
 I found myself just wanting to get the game overwith. I had to keep remembering that others had 
 said the game and graphics got better as you went along. This is true. The environments and gameplay 
 did improve. 
  
  However, all in all, this game is essentially System Shock 2 with better graphics and worse gameplay. 
 
  
  If you've got a thumping system already or were already consdering to do so, definitely play it. 
 If not, though, it may not be worth the money just to sup' up the computer just to play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrelambert
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 9, 2004 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Doom3 will offer you an amazing experience. I cant remember of a better horror game. Its innovation 
 is, of course, graphical, but also from the scary dark fights you will have. About graphics and 
 the engine all I have to say is that this one will stay as the "benchmark" and the thing to look 
 for mods for a long time. Sound is not far being more appreciated in the high-end series of speakers 
 and soundcards, with sorround enabled and some tweaking. I highly advise against kids playing it, 
 because it is a very devilish and ultimately a "long-term scare" and impressive title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2004 3:22 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time coming... was it worth it ? Hell yeah ! And I emphasize on the "Hell" here. 
 This game was worth the wait, and here's why :
  
  Gameplay (8) : Easy to learn, like any other shooter. One tiny little thing does bug me though 
 : the damn flashlight ! We're in 2004, and we have guns with flashlights on them ! Don't make me 
 believe that the Marines in the 22nd century don't have guns like that ! Ahem... ok, now that I 
 have that off my chest...
  
  Graphics (10) : What did you expect ? This game looks awesome ! I have my settings on Ultra, and 
 let me tell you, I spend 10 minutes just looking at the environment. The shading is amazing : The 
 light effects make up this game. Nobody in his right mind would give a lower rating than 10 to 
 the graphics.
  
  Sound (10) : The voice acting is very good in this game. When you hear the soldiers screaming over 
 your receiving device, you really believe they are in danger and that they are getting really, 
 really hurt. The monster growls and howls are very good too. The voices (in your head ?) during 
 the game are very scary and believable. Only bad thing about the sound is the guns... I mean, they 
 could've made a little effort here.
  
  Value (9) : Very good game, very scary. Not the best shooter of all time, but very close. Is the 
 bang worth your bucks ? Yep, it sure is.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (8) : Multiplayer is not worth alot, and I think that diminishes the value of this 
 product. A good shooter game, of this calliber, should have a decent multiplayer. The flashlight 
 thing gets annoying, but it's still ok. The game is pretty easy, too easy even, and it doesn't 
 have a good replay value to it either. The story is good... but no more.
  
  I recommend this game to all of you shooter fans out there. I think it's your best buy... that 
 is until Half-Life 2 comes out (if it ever does so) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redruler
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2004 2:18 pm PT
Review:  The best part of Doom 3 is it's atmosphere. ID Software has managed to create the creepiest, spookiest, 
 wet your pants, game I have ever played.
  
  As you have undoubtedly heard (or seen) , the graphics in this game are ridiculously good, surpassing 
 any of it's competitors, even Far Cry. The game NPC's, and better yet the game monsters, are all 
 lifelike and, in the case of the monsters, disturbingly well designed and executed. There is one 
 scene in the game where you are going down in an elevator lift while looking at this demon crawl 
 down the wall following you, only to attack you at the bottom. The animation is excellent, and 
 having to continously keep an eye on him with your flashlight only adds to the tension. And this 
 is not a cut-scene it's all done in game. D3 does use cut-scene cinematics (also all excellent) 
 to introduce new monsters or important story points.
  
  Walking around in D3 will not only give you impressive eye-candy, but also surprise you with the 
 game engine's technical power. Several of the weapons have impressive effects, like the plasma 
 rifle and the grenades, and it's a treat to use them just for that. The lighting in the game is 
 terrific, and all the gloomy hallways and dark corners really make you pull out your flashlight 
 to check, and double check, your surroundings. The game also uses computer terminals scattered 
 all over. You can click on the screens and intereact through menus all in real time, as to not 
 slow down the action at all. A very nice feature that I have not seen before.
  
  To convey story points or to give hints the game uses a PDA device. You can pick up other peoples 
 PDA's and read through their e-mail or listen to their voice recordings of various things. The 
 voice acting is all top notch. Some people say that this PDA idea was taken from System Shock 2, 
 but, that really doesn't matter, and it is used very well here in D3.
  
  Probably my second favorite part of D3 (besides the graphics) is the sound. While the game has 
 no "soundtrack" of music, there will always be sounds, of the machinery, of the weapons, of the 
 dark little whispers that make the hair on the back of your neck stand up. It certainly is a testament 
 to the immersion of the game when, just by hearing footsteps or breathing coming from somewhere 
 near by, makes you all apprehensive and almost reluctant to find out what it is! Doors opening, 
 glass breaking, or monsters grunting will pretty much keep you alert and awake during all times.
 
  
  D3 is an excellent game, but not without it's faults. I thought the opening sequences and cut-scenes 
 were expertly done. They really set up the story and got you involved and interested from the get 
 go. Unfortunatly, after a short while of the "intro", all hell breaks loose and for the most part, 
 the rest of the game is just surviving, or run-and-gun if you will. The game does use that PDA 
 to tell you bits and pieces of the story, but I found it to be a little to static. It would have 
 been an improvement if you could see a small video of the person talking, as opposed to just standing 
 there listening.
  
  Also, there are issues with the story. Now, I understand that this is fantasy afterall, and I am 
 quite forgiving, but some things just don't make much sense. I was not bothered by the whole flashlight 
 / gun combination (or lack thereof) at all. It was ID's choice to force you to use one or the other 
 at a time, and a good one at that. What kept running through my mind was, "Why are there demons 
 standing and waiting for me behind trick walls?" These walls only open as you approach, for the 
 ambush of course, but it just didn't seem very... demon-like... to me. Once you get ambushed by 
 trick walls, or just automatic spawns, a few dozen times, you actually begin to expect it. Which 
 basically means that the latter part of the game will not have you sweating nearly as much.
  
  And finally, the multiplayer. It is fun for a (short) while, testing out the new weapons, exploring 
 the cool maps, but it comes down to basic deathmatch.. and not much else. Been there, done that.
 
  
  Still, I would recommend Doom 3 to anyone who even remotely likes first person shooters. It is 
 easily one of (if not the) best game (s) out right now, and the difficulty settings will keep you 
 coming back, not to mention the awesome MOD's that are sure to come out using this great game engine. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supine
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2004 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Its a bit strange with game-reviews. Gamespot gives a game called Ghost Master 8.8, while Doom 
 3 is given an overall 8.5. There's not many gamers that have heard of the first game I mentioned, 
 and eaven if they did I don't think they would bother testing it. My point is this: Doom 3 is an 
 IMPORTANT game, its the next step in graphics! 
  
  When a game is as important as Doom 3 its strange to give Ghost Master higher overall rating. Don't 
 get me wrong, I agree with gamespots rating, but its influence on the game-industry isn't considered. 
 It should be. I hope you understand my point here. If we had to erase Doom 3 or Ghost Master from 
 the gamehistory, I don't think many would be in doubt.
  
  The best think with this game is whats to come: Mods, other devs useing the doom 3 engine, benchmarks 
 and next gen graphics. Gamespot included the 'Reviewers tilt' to sort out this problem, but its 
 not enough.
  
  This is not my review of the game, its pointing out a problem with giving games a score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenloe
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 9, 2004 11:13 am PT
Review:  It has been years since I have been excited over a first-person shooters release. I remember staying 
 up all night and waiting by the front door for the delivery driver to bring Quake 2 to my door, 
 much like I waited for Doom 3. Ok, so I didnt wait up all night, but you get the picture. So was 
 Doom 3 worth the wait? The answer is both a yes and a no. The game was a pleasing throwback to 
 first-person shooters of old, but at the same time, it failed to fully capture me, as I have come 
 to expect from modern games.
  It is true that Doom 3s graphics are amazing, even on the lowest settings it puts most games to 
 shame. The world is crisp and the monsters are extremely detailed, despite being generic. The environment 
 is also enhanced by the very impressive sound quality, which is miles ahead of any game that I 
 have played. In short, Doom 3 has reached a technical milestone much like Quake and Quake 2 did 
 when I was a child, but unfortunately, I come from the crowd that believes impressive graphics 
 are not everything.
  Doom 3 is a dark game. It is a very dark game. In fact, I believe it is too dark, especially given 
 that you only have a flashlight to illuminate the games many corners and shadows. Apparently, 
 the 22nd century sees the end of useful technologies such as lights on weapons, which would have 
 been much more convenient than switching endlessly between a flashlight and a gun. Also, with a 
 few exceptions, the environments do not change very much throughout the game, which leads to a 
 very boring experience for the middle 5-10 hours. 
  There is a back-story, which isnt fully realized like the stories in other first person shooters 
 (i. e. Halo and Halflife) were. Granted, Ids strong point was never storylines, but they could 
 have made a more honest attempt. The constant ambushes, which are slightly startling in the beginning 
 of the game, become very predictable and if it werent for constant ammo shortages on your better 
 weapons, would require no real strategy other than point-and-shoot. 
  Before you jump to any conclusions, I do want to say that I did enjoy Doom 3 and I would recommend 
 buying it if you are a fan of first person slugfests. I found several weapons a blast to use, my 
 favorite being the chain gun. Despite being generic, the environments are wonderful to look at 
 (I spent the first hour exploring) . As long as you do not expect any ground-breaking, earth-shattering 
 developments in the genre and you will not be disappointed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ktb1356
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 9, 2004 11:06 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I'd like to state that I *did* enjoy this game, very much so, despite my rating, which 
 some might argue is too low. I have not played the previous Doom titles, but knew enough about 
 them to know what to expect from Doom 3. That said, I got exactly what I expected. It's a run and 
 gun shooter -- brawn but no brians required. I think those ppl who are disappointed are those who 
 were expecting another "Far Cry" or similar. Technically, Doom 3 boasts a graphical achievement 
 that is stunning (in highest resolutions) to say the least. The atmosphere is scary and believeable, 
 and made me jump numerous times, even when I had come to expect Monster A to jump out at me from 
 behind Pillar B. Gameplay does become repetitive after a bit, but that didn't stop my from venturing 
 deeper into the Mars Base to see what was around the next corner... even when it was more of the 
 same thing. My major grip is its $55 price tag -- put it down to greed, or perhaps the fact that 
 id knew in advance it was not going to live up to the hype, so they got their extra $5 or so while 
 they could. Whatever, it's not a $55 game by any stretch. I can see this being $40 in just a few 
 months, which I think is a more reasonable price. In conclusion, if you know what to expect from 
 Doom 3, then you'll get exactly that with the gameplay and atmostphere, plus a few heart-pounding 
 moments thrown in to keep it interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dysmantle
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 9, 2004 10:39 am PT
Review:  BORRRRRRRRRING. That about sums it up. Once you've played for about an hour, you've played the 
 whole game because you will see the same dark rooms and hallways and playout the same routine in 
 every new room: Whip out the flash light, peak around until you find the demon. Shoot it. Whip 
 out the flash light again, and look for ammo and key cards. That's it. That's all Doom 3 is for 
 20-30 hours, over and over again. I was expecting a really tense and dramatic experience, which 
 would have been the case if these moments of darkness were the exception and not the rule for the 
 entire of the game. The fact that you can instant save is another breaker. There is no fear of 
 loss or urgency to your survival when you know that if you die, you can just re-wind 30 seconds, 
 and try to clear the room again with the click of your mouse. I would return Doom 3 if I could. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Origitat
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 9, 2004 10:14 am PT
Review:  To me, this game was pretty amazing. In the beginning of the game when all of the demons came out, 
 I was for lack of a better word scared #$@^less. Your running around trying to save your own skin 
 and all you hear on the radio is other marines dying left and right. Now I will add that the game 
 did get a little boring towards the end. I mean you basically kept doing the same thing and it 
 started to get a bit repetitive. Overall, I think the game was well worth the wait. I especially 
 can't wait until some crazy mods start coming out with this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lomane
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 9, 2004 9:28 am PT
Review:  DOOM 3 is a great game. Not necessarily for the gameplay aspects, but for the fact that my eyes 
 and ears never went a moment without being completely entertained. DOOM 3 is extremely immersive 
 with about as perfect a presentation as I've ever seen in a game. Visually, it has no peer at the 
 moment. Even Far Cry's impressive vistas and wonderful environments nad I love Far Cry, can't stand 
 up to the artistic and technical might of this sensory feast. Playing this on a 5.1 surround sound 
 in the dark is an intense experience.
  
  
  Without the atmosphere, DOOM 3 is a plain shooter that hearkens back to those of the '90s. Certainly, 
 that's what id was trying to do, and they've done it. While I don't appreciate those types of shooters 
 as much as I used to, it didn't really matter. I was drawn in and addicted almost completely from 
 the moment that nameless marine arrived at Mars City to the moment the final credits began rolling.
 
  
  
  The story isn't really very complex, but it's presented in a way that you really do feel like you've 
 just been dropped into a really crappy situation with little to no knowledge of what's been happening 
 on the base. You're lost, confused, and a bit freaked out. You weren't a major player in the sequence 
 of things until you picked up a gun and pointed it at your first zombie. It almost seems like the 
 forces of evil are nearly as confused by your reluctance to die as you are by the situation in 
 general.
  
  
  You'll always feel out of place and confused, but by the end, the sense that you're really and 
 truly alone and in a desperate situation becomes exceedingly pronounced. I can't say that I was 
 ever truly scared on a psychological level (most of the scares are the cheap surprises which were 
 used often) , but the creepiness and nervousness of being alone in the dark is good and the flashlight 
 becomes your best friend in a hurry.
  
  
  The gaming business is all about entertainment, no matter how you get it done. DOOM 3 is an entertaining 
 experience as long as you don't go in with any ideas that this is going to revolutionize first-person 
 shooters. It's a pretty basic game when it comes down to it. Everything works brilliantly, but 
 at its core, DOOM 3 has you running from room to room shooting things without much else in between. 
 There were some nice secret areas that finding them made for a good break in the action and with 
 good rewards as well the plasma gun comes to mind imediatly. I was expecting that kind of gameplay, 
 but I also would have liked to see AI that was a little more deviously evil than mindlessly evil 
 on at least some of the enemies. 
  
  That said, it would be impossible for me not to recommend this game to those that don't have a 
 problem battling the minions of hell in a bloody and extremely violent showdown. It's DOOM. And 
 it was worth the wait.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roosteratumd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2004 7:07 am PT
Review:  Why was this game called Doom 3? It's not Doom 3, it's Doom 1 with better graphics. If you were 
 remaking the movie "Little Shop of Horrors," you wouldn't call it, "Little Shop of Horrors 2, the 
 Remake." 
  
  Another thing that irks me about this game is that it's 5 dollars more than the average newly released 
 video game, and I have yet to figure out why. This game offers nothing more than an average 50 
 dollar game other than great graphics. I fail to see how this equates to 5 dollars extra. Most 
 of us already spent 300 dollars on a new card for this game. 
  
  The graphics and sound do an excellent job of creating an environment of peril. Spirits or whatever 
 will whisper at you and call out to you in tangible/incoherent phrases, while sometimes the game's 
 environment will turn red and evil creatures will teleport behind you. Two problems: It gets really 
 predictable after your first hour of demon-crunching, and two, it's the exact same gameplay of 
 Doom, plus a fright factor. 
  
  When you strip down the atmosphere, (and it does eventually disappear after yuou're used to it) 
 you get Doom plus, with great graphics and less difficulty. I'm surprised so many Doom fans love 
 this game when it's so easy. Doom original was hardcore. There would be 23 demons, 2 cacademons 
 and 3 barons on the screen and you'd be strafing around and shooting your shotgun and hitting things 
 by default. In Doom Plus, you walk briskly for a while, a demon teleports behind you, he claws 
 at your back, you turn around and shoot him in the face, he disappears in ashes. Rinse, lather, 
 repeat. Okay, so later, there are more enemies, but never as many as Doom original. Also, the weapons 
 have nothing to add. I guess that's to be expected, but it is a remake, they could have added badass 
 alternate firing modes or something. The newly implemented physics engine is rarely showcased, 
 and frankly, not that exciting. 
  
  Ehh... the game was okay, but I can't believe how good the reviews are. The graphics are tight, 
 no doubt, and it has enough to keep you playing to the end despite al it's flaws. It's overrated, 
 and I hope that this isn't the beginning of computer companies upping the standard price of a video 
 game for long awaited games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyDamnUsername
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 9, 2004 7:07 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is darn pretty, and with the exception of the weapons, sounds wonderful. I purchased my 
 GeForce 6800 GT specifically for this game and Far Cry. This should be of no surprise to you. All 
 reviews, good and bad, say that this is a beauty. Where people seem to disagree is the on gameplay. 
 The first thing someone should look at on all the reviews is to subtract 2 points if their value 
 rating is set to 10. There is no replayability in this game. Once you beat it, run down to EB Games 
 and sell it back to them. There is absolutely no reason to hang on to this game after you beat 
 it.
  
  Ok, on to gameplay. The first hour is fun. Then you see scenery repeat itself until you get to 
 the invaders home. Once you reach this level you're going to have Max Payne flashbacks.
  
  The worst part about Doom 3 is that you know it's a beautiful environment, but it is too dark to 
 appreciate it. I'm getting tired of bad things that can jump and strike you from 20 feet away. 
 I got sick of it in Far Cry and by this time I was completely over it.
  
  I never bothered to try the Multiplayer. With games like Call of Duty, Battlefield 1942, and BF: Vietnam 
 out there, deathmatch is pointless. Throw in the fact that your're restricted to 4 players and 
 you begin to wonder why Id bothered adding this function. I guess it was quick, easy, and they 
 checked the box.
  
  I bought this game last Wednesday and beat it Saturday. It was entertaining, but not worth the 
 $50+. I'd check for it in the used bin before buying a shiny new package. There should be a lot 
 of copies there soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3rdeye
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2004 1:15 am PT
Review:  First off, I'd like say everyone is entitled to their own opinion, but to say this game sucks.... 
 is ludicrous. If you think ANY game is going to change your life.. well then... your life must 
 be pretty sad. Now to the review.....
  I absolutely love the atmosphere in this game. The tight corridors... all but complete darkness... countless 
 waves of enemies... imps that jump out at you from the shadows... great sound provided by Tweaker 
 [aka Chris Vrenna] . THIS is where the game gets it's intensity.... by giving you that "claustrophobic" 
 feeling. 
  The game is more then I had hoped for or could have even imagined. And seeing the Hell level for 
 the first time was "jaw dropping". 
  Another excellent game from the masters over at id software. They never cease to amaze me. Upgrading 
 my system was well worth it.
  As far as multiplayer goes... I'm just glad they even added this aspect. I can live with 5 maps 
 until a DECENT mod [Threewave CTF] is released. 
  Again... excellent job, id. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbl
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 8, 2004 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Simply stated, Doom 3 - IS WHAT IT IS - Doom with a glitzier look and feel. Anyone who expected 
 more from this FPS was fooling themselves. If you want the true test, go back and whip out the 
 classic - Doom for the PC. If ID had wanted to make this game something more, it would have been 
 positioned as a new adventure with new user interface. Geez folks get a grip! This is a great FPS 
 game based on the original Doom adventure that we all knew and loved. 
  
  But now, if ID wanted to soup it up a little, I've got your weapons mod - right here!
  
  bobbl
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pucho2000
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 8, 2004 10:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst secuel ever made.
  No one can say that this game doesnt look incredible but thats it.
  The game is just too dark 
 and linear and the flashlight thing is just dumb. The game repetitive level design makes you fell 
 you are walking over the same corridor but with different lights and monsters. The lack of space 
 to manuver makes you think that if you had unlimited ammo you could finish the game simply by shooting 
 the darkness in front of you.
  If you want to play a state of the art game, just play far cry. Dont waste your money in this graphic 
 showcase, if you want something nice on your computer monitor just download 3dmark, its free.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bribud
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2004 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Overall, the game is good. I expected a bit more from this title since it has been hyped so much. 
 I am playing the game with an ATI 9800 Pro graphics card with the resolution set at 1024x768 and 
 the details are at High quality. Since Far Cry came out ahead of Doom 3, it lost a little bit of 
 its glitter. Don't get me wrong, the graphics are very nice and the sound overall is good. But 
 at times the game does seem to be a bit repetitive. All of the closed in corridors tend to get 
 a bit old through the game and more open areas would have been much appreciated. I like the dark 
 atmosphere, but having to use the flashlight is a bit much too often. You can't even see if a section 
 is a dark hallway or a dead end most of the time. It seems like you have your finger on the "F" 
 key most of the time to toggle back in forth waiting for something to pop out so you can go back 
 to your selected weapon. If you are a fan of the Doom series or a diehard id fan, then get the 
 game (even though $55 is WAY too much for this title) . If your computer is older, then wait until 
 you have the chance to upgrade before playing. By the time you upgrade, maybe the price of the 
 game will come out of the clouds a bit. It is worth about $40 - $45 max. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidober
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 8, 2004 8:57 pm PT
Review:  So very disappointing. Bought the game the day it came out and rushed home to play it. Within just 
 one hour of playing, I had given up for good, and will just sold the game to a friend. The game 
 plays like a FPS from 10 years ago, but with nicer graphics. The thing about Half-Life when it 
 first came out was that it made you feel *different* than any other game before it. With Doom 3, 
 I don't even remotely get that feeling. The game is simply too dark, too repetitive, and too derivative 
 to garner anything other than an average rating from me. I sure hope HL2 is better.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoz_golem
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 8, 2004 8:44 pm PT
Review:  those who think this game sucks have got serious issues. the game obviously emphasised its original 
 gameplay with better graphics, everyone knows that. the people that think 'oh, its gotten nothin 
 new, and its just so simple" well they havent really considered doom 1-2 are really made out of. 
 
  
  yes, i'd admit its repetitive once i got off the monorail and realise the monorail needs too open 
 some airlock and i got frustrated there. but that was it. the gameplay was fun BECAUSE its basic 
 and not because i gotta have some physics toys to entertain. its kinda dumb to 'manipulate' explosive 
 canisters to throw at the minions of hell right. what else do u have to throw at em anyways besides 
 the abundant computers in UAC. use your brain, half life 2 and this is completely different. especially 
 their emphasis.
  
  it plays just like the old and some people like it like that. its a review, not a hatin forum, 
 so those who sends really bad score to this forum, cry me a river.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovezombie
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 8, 2004 8:41 pm PT
Review:  While the game looks and sounds amazing, it does nothing for the genre in terms of progression 
 in an innovative sense. Throughout my entire experience with Doom 3, I felt as though I was playing 
 the original Doom, which techniqually I guess, I was. Also, I was seriously disappointed with the 
 descision to go with the PDA videos and audio logs. Doom 3 is such an old school, fast paced shooter 
 that you cannot focus on the story or even care about it because by opening your PDA up you are 
 sucked out of the action and stopped for a lecture about some technician forgetting where he left 
 the keys to his turbocycle (just kidding, only making an example) . Let us all sigh and put this 
 game behind and wait for the massive Tsunami of greatness that Half-Life 2 will bring with it. 
 Thanks for your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pimpbotgamer
Rating: 3.2
Date: Aug 8, 2004 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This was a total let down. Yes the old one was a classic and this is the whole reason I bought 
 this in the first place, But gameplay was terrible yes i was scared at time's but to have mindless 
 no Ai enimies was a huge dissapointment They should have taken a que from the previews of Half 
 Life Two and realized that real time phiysics and characters that are not half way retarted are 
 a plus John Carmack was a genious to unleash such an awful beast 8 years later cause he knew people 
 would just buy it on the merrit of the name. Graphics now on the other hand were amazing and have 
 brought alot into this field of gameplay. Online sucks too Unreal kicks its buttocks. Oh and on 
 the graphis two still more impressed by a tow second vidoe of halflife then them doom engine had 
 to offer. the character were tooo stiff. and textures to glossy looks like they took a phong and 
 tossed it on everything to give it that computer graphics bling. Well enough of that just dissapointed 
 is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrajch
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 8, 2004 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok here is the deal, I do admit that the graphics engine is impressive, i was scared playing this 
 game and all that but there are some things that need to be addressed. For one, the flashlight 
 issue is just flat annoying. Also the replay value is not excellent since all the surprises have 
 been spoiled. The Flashlight issue needs to be mentioned again..... grrrr. Now back to the game, 
 the weapons were not all that impressive, especially the sounds, the ammo spread was incredibly 
 poorly done, forcing you to switch amongst weapons merely cuz one ran out of ammo... the only weapon 
 with a steady supply of ammo was the pistol..... what the hell is that? Oh and of course.... any 
 marine in the darkness of that facility would have merely tapped the flashlight to his weapon, 
 come on now. The game was overall not as impressive as it was made out to be. I never expected 
 it to change my life, but i did expect alot more then what i got from this game. It never seems 
 to matter where you hit the monsters to kill them. Also there is no interactivity with the environment 
 although I did like the computer accessing styles. I do wish to see some improvements for this 
 game, cuz i consider it unfinished, the story seems unfinished too, what happened to all those 
 people you left behind that were alive? Counseler Swan? How did they die? How did Kelly get killed 
 and possessed then turned into whatever the heck he was? The story was admittingly shallow, overall 
 i think the game was average in gameplay but superb in graphics and environment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atgamer
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 8, 2004 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I am a computer programmer by trade, and I have and playing/keeping up with the latest games and 
 hardware since I bought the original Doom shareware version in a store (I will always remember 
 that moment) 12 years ago for $10.
  
  I probably logged more hours playing the original Doom and Doom2 than any other game. It was definitely 
 a revolutionary feat in computer gaming. The simple, dark, and scary environment and gameplay is 
 what I liked best about the game. I also really liked the co-operative multiplayer game option. 
 To this day I still find myself playing the original Doom from time to time.
  
  Doom 3 relived several of the original features just fine (the signature Doom "dark theme" and 
 monsters) , but was disappointingly missing things such as the co-op gameplay and stats (percent 
 complete) at the end of the level. Also, I was hoping there would be more secrets and puzzles in 
 Doom 3 to go along with the great graphics. The original Doom did a great job of teasing you by 
 showing you part of a secret area, but making it difficult to finding out how to get there. I was 
 also a bit disappointed by the lack of bigger rooms and outdoor environments in Doom 3. And thew 
 original Doom was more challenging and difficult to master.
  
  The graphics and sound of Doom 3 were the best I have seen to date, and this alone made the game 
 worthwhile to buy and play. And Doom 3 did a good job with the "dark, scary" environment.
  
  Doom 3 reminded me exactly how I felt after watching Stars Wars episode #1 16 years after the 
 original trilogy - great visual effects, great sound, great thrills of re-living parts the original 
 theme, but I felt a certain "emptiness" and "boredom" at the same time. It was almost like going 
 to a high school reunion - re-lived and shared some great memories for a couple of days, and then 
 that was it.
  
  So overall, the Doom 3 graphics and sound were great (this alone makes buying the game worthwhile) , 
 but there were some short-comings in other areas such as value and gameplay. I finished all the 
 levels the last couple of days and had a lot of fun and thrills doing so, but I will likely not 
 play it again outside of tinkering around here and there with cheat codes. I was not impressed 
 at all by the multi-player features of Doom 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: traceelement
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 8, 2004 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Sorry folks, but I'm not on the "best looking game of all time" band-wagon. Sure, it's impressive 
 on a technical level, but dark corridors full of generic "science stuff" is certainly nothing that 
 I would consider esthetically revolutionary. Now I'm not one who would typically question someone's 
 artistic talents, but I personally think that Id needs some new designers.
  
  As if the peek-a-boo artistic direction wasn't bad enough, Doom 3 finds it's biggest flaw in the 
 gameplay department. I have to wonder how well received the flashlight mechanic was during play-testing 
 because from my perspective, it does nothing more than frustrate, no... punish the player just 
 for playing. I grew so tired of constantly switching between light and weapon that I really couldn't 
 bring myself to play for more than an hour at a time. That being said, I've noticed a lot of people 
 accusing those who dislike Doom 3 of playing it on an inferior machine, or playing the pirated 
 version, or not setting the right mood, or whatever else they can concoct. I'll lay all of that 
 to rest right now, I played my $55 boxed copy at ultra quality settings with surround sound and 
 all of the lights out... Doom 3 still fell short.
  
  Mind you, I'm a huge Id fan, and I was just as amped for this game as everyone else. I remember 
 losing many a night's sleep to Doom, playing with a joystick of all things, fraggin' my friends 
 via modem while my roommate would fire out insult upon insult on my keyboard. Doom 3 certainly 
 doesn't live up to the legacy of it's predecessors, nor does it compare to the modern breed of 
 first-person shooters. If you want an old-school style shooter, play Painkiller. If you want bleeding-edge 
 visuals and more engaging gameplay, go for Far Cry. Simply put, Doom 3 is monotonous, forgettable, 
 and boring.
  
  If there is any one facet of this game that is a true standout however, it has to be the sound. 
 More for the engine than the audio design, I'll give credit where it's due... Doom 3 has the best 
 positional audio that I have ever heard in a game. If you really want to experience everything 
 Doom 3 has to offer, I strongly recommend playing it loud, through a good set of surround speakers. 
 That being said, I really don't recommend playing it at all, not if you're expecting to play a 
 great first-person shooter anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sevenwarlocks
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2004 11:47 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an amazing first person shooter for the following reasons: 
  Best graphics engine to date.
  Intense white knuckle action in fights.
  Spooky as hell (heh 
 heh) .
  For us hella old school types, seeing revenants and hell knights is like a reunion with old friends.
 
  PDA adds depth, change of pace.
  
  What could have been better:
  
  Not enough outdoor or open environments.
  
  Too many story elements lifted directly from Half-Life. 
 (Administrator / Betruger; teleporters / teleporters; Delta Labs / Lambda sector; travel to hell 
 / travel to xen...) I guess the guys at Id figured since they invented the first person shooter, 
 they had the right to steal whatever they liked from any FPS. It didn't sit too well with me, and 
 I bet it angers the folks at Valve.
  
  Not enough secret stuff - levels, weapons, areas, etc...
  
  And finally, no score at the end 
 of the level, telling you how well you did. This was one of the joys of Doom, and added imensely 
 to the desire to replay the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleweasel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 8, 2004 8:57 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game forever. I can't stomach the thought that you guys have such crappy 
 machines, get a job. My machine is only a pentium 4 3.0 with 1 gig of ram and a 9800xt running driver 
 4.9 beta and I don't have any problems with the game, sweet graphics, unreal sound in 5.1 mode, best 
 game I have seen this year. Don't get me wrong farcry was exellent but DOOM3 is the best. I need 
 to get back to playing this BOOM ASS GAME. You need a good computer to play this game and the up 
 and coming games. When the x800xt P. E is available in my store near my house I will be getting the 
 first one. I am a true GAMER. It is time to chuck that piece of junk in the garbage and get a computer 
 that is up to speed so you can review games fairly and not cry about it later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkarma77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 8, 2004 4:57 am PT
Review:  Im an old school gamer who played the original DOOM when it was first released so the anticipation 
 of this game has been killing me. Im sorry to say that Im somewhat disappointed. Yes, visually, 
 DOOM 3 is absolutely stunning. These are the best graphics Ive ever seen in a game and I was surprised 
 that I could set the game settings so high and still experience good frame rates. The sound is 
 very good; especially with the surround sound activated and there have been a few scary moments. 
 With all of that being said heres my beef with DOOM 3: Wheres the fun? The story is not engaging; 
 the level design is not that great and I was bored of the game after the first hour or so. Ive 
 played several times again since the first day and I usually dont last more than 30 minutes before 
 Im bored again. DOOM 3 reminds me of Unreal II. Pretty to look at but not so exciting. Its definitely 
 not worth $54.99 plus tax. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alucart
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 7, 2004 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe people are reviewing Doom 3 that sound like their computers are crappy and couldn't 
 even render the decals (bullet holes) . In one reader review earlier a guy said that shooting a 
 enemie in the head and shooting him the belly doesn't matter on how fast it kills them, well your 
 stupid. I tested this theory you are. well..... really stupid. I shoot a fat zombie in the head 
 and I got him down in 3 to 4 shoots, so then I found another fat zombie and shot him in the foot 
 and belly and it took close to 7 shots to get him down, so yes aiming your shoots do matter. Also 
 a reader review I read earlier said that there where no bullet hole made in walls or enemies when 
 you shoot them, well you are stupid too. Doom is a great game and in no way deserves below an 8.5. 
 Well Thats all I have to say and to any of the people that think Doom 3 sucks, I WILL SEE YOU IN 
 HELL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laza-rus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 7, 2004 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I really don't get all the Doom3 hating on these forums. Granted, just as PC Gamer was anxious 
 to be the first official publication to print that the game was the Second Coming, many wish to 
 be the first to say that it sucked. That's all fine and well but the simple truth is that whether 
 or not to like this game is a matter of personal preference. Case in point: the Matrix sequels. 
 While they were blighted with scathing reviews from critics and fanboys alike, I actually enjoyed 
 the hell out of them and I was very satisfied with the end of Revolutions. In the same vein, I'm 
 enjoying the hell (no pun intended) out of D3.
  
  The reason for such widespread disdain for the Matrix sequels is obvious - hype. Thus is the Doom3 
 dilemma. We had over four years to make this the be all, end all of gaming - your PC could explode 
 into bits, gaming could cease as we know it, the sun could go red giant and swallow up the earth 
 - it didn't matter, Doom3 would be here in xx days/months/years. As with all things hyped, it could 
 never eclipse its own shadow. So for all those that want to hate it, be my guest. Me - I have other 
 plans.
  
  A little background... I was ushered into the sheer ecstacy that is PC gaming back in '95 (showing 
 my age a bit) by none other that the original Doom. Graduating college in '97 and landing a job 
 in '98 finally afforded me the resources to buy my shiny new P2 266 Mhz rig and thus pave my path 
 into hardcore PC gaming. Since then, I've played all that id has to offer and, with the rest of 
 the PC gaming world, have been amazed with what new graphics engine Carmac and crew would change 
 the face of gaming. August 3rd was no different. In fact, If you consider that I've been seriously 
 playing PC games for the last 6 years and with Doom3 in development for over four of them, the 
 development of this game, has pervaded the majority of my career as a PC gamer. In a way, I have 
 come full circle - it's the end of an era for, so to speak. 
  
  But I digress... Doom3, though it may be simplistic at times is truly an amazing accomplishment 
 for id. Not only does it flaunt thae most advanced graphics engine to date, id has taked great 
 paind to ensure that D3 runs on essentially outdated hardware - talk about community support. I 
 can't do any further justice to the actual experience of the visuals except to say that they are 
 sublimely surreal. 
  
  The sound in this game creates one the most immersive, interactive environments I've ever experienced 
 - and the weapon effects sounded great to me. As for the fear factor, I still can't grow the balls 
 to play D3 without at least a nighltight :) I could say much more about the overall stylish presentation 
 of D3, its sheer visceral thrills and all that, but all you really need to know is that I recommend 
 this game as highly as I can.
  
  I know a I sound like a fanboy, but I'm not. My hardware consists of Pentium and ATI components 
 - hardly the stuff of the commited Doom3 lapdog - but the game still runs flawlessly on high settings. 
 I'm merely a discerning gamer. With a family and full-time job, my time for gaming is short and 
 I need to sift thorugh all the potentials that come along each year to find which titles are worth 
 my time. I believe Doom 3 is worth much of my time and as a matter of preference, I believe Doom3 
 is a great game and true classic - be it for its infamy, if not its innovation. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlinedaddy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 7, 2004 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Stunning graphics, smooth gameplay and control, eery sound effects and music.
  A simple storyline and yes another first person shooter with nothing in the game that would be 
 considered an accolade, but with sound this good and grahics to a level I have never seen before 
 this game immerses you into its gameplay and won't let up. Play it in the dark and at night and 
 it will scare the crap out of you (with a good sound system and a high performance computer) . 
 
  
  The multiplayer portion of the game is choppy at times but it looks really good too. I look forward 
 to some mods and patches for the multiplayer portion of the game to enhance the replay value of 
 the multiplayer version but for now the multiplayer portion of the game is mediocre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xears
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 7, 2004 8:55 pm PT
Review:  First of all, to anyone who wrote reviews from what you saw from videos or heard or read without 
 actually buying the game... are you guys retarded? Stop filling this space with your useless crap. 
 The main beef I had with the game is that the value out of box for this game is hardly worth it, 
 unless the community creates a ton of addons and multiplayer mods. I played it, I beat it, and 
 it definately is the scariest games I've ever played. It achieved that with horrific success. Graphics 
 are also amazing, but I really can't find any replay value other than mindless eyecandy. The multiplayer 
 is extremely sluggish. I just hope the community comes up with something good fast before hl2 ships. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atthedrivein
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 7, 2004 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 sets out to achieve some very specific goals, and it generally achieves them very well. 
 The key is not to expect the game to be something it's not. At it's heart, this is a very basic 
 shooter. The gameplay is stripped down to the foundation, and often it felt like that's what this 
 game is, an excellent foundation. At it's best it's an immersive experience like no other. At it's 
 worst it's a glorified tech demo.
  
  Doom 3's gameplay isn't bad by any means. It's great. The problem is that it feels so limited, 
 and gets pretty repetitive. The gameplay maintains the same basic structure most of the way through. 
 There's one escort sequence that stands out in mind. These are normally irritating, but it worked 
 very well in the game. Why couldn't there be more of these? Why couldn't the player meet up with 
 a handful of marines and fight along side them for a while? There are so many options that aren't 
 experimanted with. Sure, it deviates from the basic gameplay that the game's based on, but it would 
 have made for a much more interesting experience. Some would say that sequences like these would 
 cause the game to lose it's old school feel. To me, that just means that Doom as a franchise is 
 afraid to grow and evolve. 
  
  Throughout the game, you're limited to a very standard collection of weapons (though to be fair, 
 Doom made them the standards) . While not particularly interesting, they do their job. One thing 
 that makes the game stand out a bit is the player's inability to use the flashlight and fire a 
 weapon simultaneously. It takes a bit of getting used to, but I feel that this was definitely a 
 good decision. It's a new way to create tension and makes the gameplay more interesting. Sure, 
 it doesn't make much sense to imagine that a marine couldn't find a roll of duct tape in his travels, 
 or that some form of night vision isn't standard issue for security guards/ marines this far in 
 the future, but that makes the issue more of a plot whole than a flaw in the gameplay. It's also 
 worth mentioning that the AI is quite average. This usually isn't a problem since you spend alot 
 of time fighting mindless zombies, but it would still be nice to see enemies better use their enviroment 
 by climbing on walls or try to escape when injured, instead of just standing there until you shoot 
 them.
  
  Obviously, the graphics are phenomenal, the best in any shooter yet. Doom 3 has commonly been compared 
 to another gorgeous first person shooter, Far Cry. There were moments during Far Cry when i was 
 stunned by how great the game looked. The kind of moment where'd you'd just have to stop, take 
 a screenshot, and admire the world around you. Doom 3 is different. There really aren't specific 
 moments where you're stunned by how good it looks, because it looks that good the whole time. Where 
 Far Cry had occassional inspired moments, Doom 3 goes the entire game looking near perfect. This 
 doesn't apply just to the enviroments, which look fantastic technically and artistically, but to 
 the animations of the enemies, which stand out as exceptional.
  
  My feelings concerning sound are mixed. There are some very atmoshperic sound effects that do a 
 great job of sucking you into the experience, like random chatter and screams over your radio, 
 or the sound of an unseen demon scurrying around in a vent overhead. The voice acting is also top 
 notch. The biggest problem with the sound is the almost total lack of in game music. At times this 
 feels like a good decision, but at others it just leaves the game feeling empty. Take a minute 
 to think about your favorite horror movie, and consider how much less effective those suspenseful 
 scenes would be without a soundtrack. Music could've greatly augmented the feelings of suspense 
 in Doom 3. It's also worth mentioning that the effects of the various weapons are simply weak. 
 The guns sound like toys, and just about any surface you whack with the butt of your flashlight 
 sounds exactly the same.
  
  The game is longer than the average fps, and any longer would've just been repetitive. The game 
 ends when it should. The multiplayer is very standard, if not below common standards. Sure, modmakers 
 will help this, but a game shouldn't have to rely on it's community. It should stand on it's own 
 right out of the box, and let mods serve as something extra.
  
  Doom 3 is an impressive game in several different ways, most noteably graphically, but falls short 
 in other ways. If you expected an update of the classic Doom series, you wont likely be disappointed. 
 If you go in expecting anything at all more, you may. Doom 3 doesn't accomplish much new, but what 
 it does do, it does very, very well. Doom 3 is possibly the most cinematic, atmospheric shooter 
 since Half-Life, and you should love every minute of it, assuming you don't have a problem with 
 playing a very stripped down and basic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yannira
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 7, 2004 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the good points - the graphics are pretty amazing. Reminds me of the "Riddick" 
 engine, only better because of the resolution on my LCD monitor. The gameplay is ok for awhile, 
 but gets old pretty quick. I was so interested to see what the "Hell" level looked like and I have 
 to admit, it is very scary. Weapon variety is ok, but what about alternate fire? Being able to 
 toss grenades where you throw them (up onto another higher level) ? NIGHT VISION??? The sound is 
 pretty good but not great. All in all, it is a good game, but for me, there is no replay value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptNCoke
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 7, 2004 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is great. Greg is entitled to his opinion, but I feel that it deserves a higher 
 score. I think he went wrong in the sounds department. An 8 out of 10? Come on. Overall the sound 
 is the second best part of the game. I agree that some of the guns sound a little wimpy but overall 
 the quality of the atmosphere and monsters makes up for the gun sounds. 
  Another area where the game deserves a higher score is value. I know that game cost around $50 
 and ships with a limited multiplayer but wait awhile. Mod developers are going to come out with 
 some kick ass mods and thatll raise the bar. I know some of you will say that the rating is for 
 the game as it is but I cant realistically look at it like that. Good games last a long time. 
 Look at Half-Life. It was a great game but how many people are still playing the multiplayer today? 
 Not very many. On the other hand look at Counter-Strike. There are tons of people still playing 
 that. In my opinion things like that add to the long term value of the game.
  Overall an awesome game. Off the chart graphics, superb atmosphere, sweet sounds make this an overall 
 very enjoyable game to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FIDo_pOwErGuIdO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2004 4:22 pm PT
Review:  
  
  
  
  
  
  It has been over ten years since we first came across the phenomenon known as DOOM, and now the 
 third installment in the classic game series is nearing completion. Not a sequel, but a retelling 
 of the original story, the hero is again a marine on a Mars research facility funded by the Union 
 Aerospace Corporation. UAC is researching experimental technology, such as transportation gates 
 that allow fast passage through vast distances. 
  DOOM 3 features cutting edge graphics that not only make the world approach cinema quality visuals, 
 but provide a new style of gameplay. Players are able to rely on shadows to help locate the enemies 
 and use them to hide while figuring out the best way to terminate horrifying monsters and stay 
 alive. With all the light sources being destructible, players have to make sure to check their 
 fire. If the lights go out, all they have as backup is a dinky flashlight, and unlike humans, the 
 hordes of hell don't need light to see. 
  One of the new things DOOM 3 allow is seamless integration between models and static world objects. 
 Most importantly, monsters and characters completely blend in with the environment, which in turn 
 means that they will not stick out but rather blend into shadows and come out on the unsuspecting 
 player. The system also allow certain scripted destructible scenes in an engine with no destructible 
 environments. Moreover, these inserts in no way look detached from the game, so determining whether 
 something is a scripted event or not is quite a challenge. 
  In addition to a superb graphics engine comes an incredible sound system that supports the latest 
 surround technology. Effects appears to be coming from the objects that made them, helping the 
 player assess his or her surroundings more efficiently. This is a great help, since the game is 
 very dark. 
  There are no use key in DOOM 3. Instead a rather intuitive and fluid system will be in place. When 
 a player approaches a screen that can be interacted with, his or her gun will lower and the crosshair 
 will turn into a cursor to manipulate said screen. When the player steps back, the gun is returned 
 to its position. 
  The player will receive missions and various updates through a PDA that will be given to him or 
 her in the beginning of the game. Through this PDA, a "Sarge" character will issue the players 
 orders, mission objectives, etc. This PDA will also be able to download info from various computer 
 terminals and other PDA's from other characters in the game. 
  
  
  Many of the classic DOOM monsters makes a return. The zombies are back, but they come in many shapes 
 and sizes. From the thin, to the fat, zombies with chain guns, zombies with tentacles, and even 
 zombies with chainsaws. They are not the brightest of enemies, but be careful, they may look like 
 they're dead and still get up and creep up behind you. 
  
  
  
  The imps are back as well, this time with a firmer grip on reality, or the walls rather. The new 
 imps jump, climb walls and ceilings and still retain the ability to throw fireballs. Don't let 
 them get too close, since they use those sharp claws to scratch as well. 
  The Revenant are back and he hasn't been changed too much. Still ugly and bony, he punches and 
 kicks, and still has 2 guided rocket launchers on his shoulders. 
  Hellknights won't have horns or hooves anymore, nor does he shoot green balls of plasma. But he 
 is big, he is hard to kill, and he can throw you across the room without batting an eye. 
  The Demons are still there, seems to be the pet of choice in hell. This time the beast is a hybrid 
 of mechanical and organic construction, so when you hear that "clank clank" of his cybernetic legs, 
 get yourself onto a higher surface, because the beast has trouble biting up. 
  
  
  Lost souls also seem to get a mechanical touch up in this remake, but they still fly in packs and 
 bite. You can also expect Cacodemons, and Cyberdemons to be included in game as well.
  
  
  One of the new monsters include the Trites. These look like spiders, with human heads for a 
 body, and fingers for legs. Like the lost souls they also travel in packs and use webs to drop 
 down on an unsuspecting player. 
  Weaponry are close to that of the original DOOM. As well, the pistol are the basic weapon, good 
 enough for zombies, but nearly useless against stronger enemies. The shotgun seems to be the weapon 
 of choice: It packs quite a punch, but reloading it takes time, and that time can be enough to 
 get killed. The chain gun are back with a generous clip, but less power than the shotgun. Also 
 back is the rocket launcher, and it seems to have the powerful feel of the old DOOM version. The 
 BFG is also returning, it is knowed as the BFG 11k. The long ranged and deadly accurate rail gun 
 has been left out since there are not many open areas where it would be useful. 
  Ammo are sparse in the game, along with health. Players have to learn to carefully budget each 
 shot to survive. The "guns blazing" approach just won't be enough this time through. 
  Mappers are happy to know that the Windows version of DOOM will have a map editor built right into 
 the game. That means theyre able to pull down the console type "editor" and start mapping. This 
 also means that maps can be tested without having to launch a game every time changed were made 
 and have to be tested. Dont forget that ID also promised the community comprehensive mod making 
 tools to aid further expansion of the game. 
  As far as multiplayer is concerned, DOOM 3 not have epic team play modes, but there are some multiplayer 
 in it. The game features modes like last man standing and deathmatch. Gameplay are limited to 4 
 players per game, with synchronous startup (like the old DOOM) . Players have to learn new tactics, 
 since anyone can shoot out the lights and cover the level in darkness. Sounds, shadows, and stealth 
 will dominate the game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flishkin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2004 3:56 pm PT
Review:  As many people have already said, Doom 3 is an experience! Excellent graphics aside, my only criticism 
 is the lack of a soundtrack, slow loading times and some repetitiveness in the game play. But these 
 are minor things! The dark, always busy environment makes for some scary scenes. 
  
  The GameSpot review got it right. Many people cant believe the 8.5 score, but compared to current 
 shooters, Doom 3 brings amazing graphics but nothing new to the genre. That said, the game is lots 
 of fun isnt that the point? ID has brought us new technology; others will take this technology 
 and create the next series of games that will last us a few more years. I wonder how Half Life 
 2 and Stalker will do in the months ahead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsmythe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2004 3:52 pm PT
Review:  After upgrading my computer to play Doom 3, as well as other games like Everquest 2, I was pleased 
 to see that it ran really well at Medium quality. The gameplay is at it's core, similiar to the 
 earlier Doom games, but modernized. I really enjoyed the PDA that lets you read other people's 
 emails and listen to voice mail and watch videos that you collect during your adventure. The events 
 that transpire to move the story along are rendered in real time but often look like CGI. This 
 game should be played at night with the lights off and the sound cranked up and it will scare the 
 hell out of you. Everyone talks about the graphics, but I thought the sound was amazing too.
  
  I guess the big question, is whether or not Doom 3 is one of those revolutionary leaps in gaming 
 history that people remember like the first Doom game, and I would say perhaps a half leap for 
 graphics, sound and immersion qualities but the gameplay is just too rudimentary to be hailed as 
 revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakasm
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 7, 2004 3:22 pm PT
Review:  So. Basically I didn't buy this game. Glad I didn't. Between what it would cost to upgrade my computer 
 and the Hype... I personally was highly disappointed.
  
  What I did do was watch my friend play... or I should say, run around for an hour before he picked 
 up his gun. I then finally saw him pick up a gun and start to shoot things, and it didn't seem 
 any different. I remember reading about how Doom was going to change everything... and it didn't. 
 Not at all. I probably was expecting way too much out of this game and I blame all the reviews 
 and previews and everything else I read. I remember thinking how cool it would be to shoot a zombie's 
 leg and have it get hurt there, but if you shoot it in the leg 3 times it blows up? not my cup 
 of tea.... I can see why people like it, nostalgic, but... Graphics are good, game = no so good, 
 especially as I was never a huge doom fan to begin with (I'd rate Doom 1 higher than this game 
 however) . Most of the game is in the dark anyway from what I can tell and I can make a game without 
 light, without having to update a computer with an extra 800 dollars. 
  
  *Update*
  I really wanted to like Doom III. I really wanted to keep going. After my first review (which I 
 was told was unfair) I have since then played it for about 2 hours and I myself found myself bored 
 after such little time... 
  
  Just the truth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel1201989
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2004 2:57 pm PT
Review:  "I spent my entire life over hyping this game!!!!!!!!!!, I downloaded it of the internet because 
 i cant wait for 3 exstra days!!!! WAAAAA"
  
  Thats what i seem to hear from people who spent their entire life looking into everything in this 
 game. Us normal people however get to enjoy this game. If you dident spend 20 hours a day you will 
 find a really really good game.
  
  Gameplay- The game play is pritty good. They dident intruduce anything new, but they dident ruin 
 a good thing. Out of the entire package the gameplay was the worst. Im not saying it was bad, im 
 just saying its not amazing.
  
  Graphics- 10 out of 10. Thats all i can say.
  
  Sound- Pritty dam good. Its pritty chilling, and its pritty dam scary. But only at night.
  
 
  Value- Even if you dont like FPS you should get it, just because its something people have been 
 waiting for, for a loooooonnnnnggggg time. And its the first next gen game.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- You can tell they put efort into this game, so i gave them a good tilt.
  
 
  
  If you want to flame me bad email me at DanielStange@hotmail. com
  
  I dont want to hear about my spelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 7, 2004 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Look. The GS review of Doom3 made me sick! It is not my fault nor the game's fault that all you 
 people who gave this game a low score was dissapointed due to your own hype. This game is one of 
 a kind, and deserves nothing less than a 9!! I have lost complete respect for Gamespot to give 
 Doom3 a 8.5 even if it is considered "great". Everyone has complaints, everyone has been b! tching. 
 But if you just relax and forget your own damn dissapointments and review the game like you never 
 heard of it before ... i guarantee you this experience will last you a life time.
  I can go into specifics and argue back everything people hate about this game, but I won't because 
 too many people already have. 
  Here is my main point and something you should really consider. Doom3 will revolutionalize the 
 FPS genre with ID's new engine, the way doom did in the nineties. The graphics are without question 
 INCREDIBLE. and you know what, the game play is sweet as well. but the main point here is the fact 
 that this game and engine were made for moder's dreams. The games that will come out now after 
 doom3 will just blow us all away. you think doom3 is it? no way ... the games that come out after 
 doom3 will now pave the way of the futre. Just like games like COD and others with the quake 3 
 engine, doom3 has started a new world for us FPS lovers ...
  but I digress ... the main point here is that Doom3 is just an incredible experience. Yes it has 
 its short coming, yes people were expecting more, but dammit you take this game put another name 
 over it and you will have reviews over 9.0 from gamespot. For every game gamespot reviews over 
 8.5, means it is better than Doom3. It makes NO SENSE. Gamespot wrote a little article about its 
 journey to get the game and play it, and then made a review of it ... well i think Gamespot did 
 a diserves to us by writing a BIASED review! maybe they should not have been so hyped about it, 
 fly 500 miles, and then play 24hrs, with no sleep, and then review it.
  
  flat out folks, this game will not be the greatest you ever play, but personally this game is nothing 
 less than a 9.0 . i gave it a 9.3 because out of my whole PC collection this game is one of the 
 top!!!
  P. s: The ending boss is one of the best I have played against!
  if anyone else out there agrees with me please send me a message :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiba_Wolf
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 7, 2004 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I will admit, I was hyping this game like it was the second coming of jesus or something, but now 
 that I've played it, I feel that it could be compared to the second coming of William Shatner. 
 In short, I was disappointed.
  
  Graphics - Enough has been said about the graphics engine, and it is incredible. The shadows are 
 awesome!
  
  Gameplay - In between playing Doom 3 and the original Doom, I learned that, from a gameplay standpoint 
 I was playing the exact same game! The enemy AI is more than a little dumb, everything feels too 
 scripted, and the actual combat is repetitive and lacks any kind of spark. This is probably the 
 weakest and most disappointing aspect of Doom 3.
  
  Sound - Footsteps, moans, and the eery beeps of machinery are done very well, but the weapon fire 
 effects sound a little weak. It's not bad by any means, but when I fire a shotgun, I want to hear 
 somekind of "BOOM!" instead of a tinny little pistol shot. 
  Aside from the weapon sounds, everything else in this department is exceptional.
  
  Multiplayer 
 & Replayablility - I can't speak for everyone, but the 4 player limit in D3 is ridiculous!! Deathmatch 
 IS fun but I lost interest after a couple hours; I guess I'll have to wait for the mod community 
 to do away with the player limit... wait, that already happened, didn't it?
  
  Conclusion - Doom 3 didn't wow me like I thought it would. Far Cry did it with surprising ease. 
 I sure hope Half Life 2 can pull it off... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaumoJR
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2004 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is not a game... it's an experience. A feel a lot of the complaints in regards to Doom 3 
 stem from playing other games. Doom 3 is NOT Far Cry. Doom 3 is not Hlaf-Life 2. Doom 3 is Doom 
 3, and that's a great gaming experience. It does an amazing job of throwing you into a world taht 
 is almost completley realistic. If you play this game with the sounds turned down, the brightness 
 turned up, with lights on in your room, and cheats enabled then yes you won't appreciate Doom 3 
 lke it was meant to be. I think players need to stop comparing this game to everything else on 
 the market and just enjoy the experience... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waylander
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 7, 2004 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, let's get the graphics out of the way, superb, awesome, amazing etc... even on my 
 FX5700 Ultra, can't wait for my X800 to arrive.
  
  Right that's the eye candy out of the way, on to how the game actually is to play, nice slow bit 
 at the start so you can get the drooling over the graphics done before the action hits, coz once 
 you get into the game you'll be too busy trying to stay alive to look at pretty surroundings, at 
 least most of the time, which brings me to the main failing, the need to retrace your steps constantly, 
 this leads to long periods without seeing a monster let alone fighting one.
  This game is based solidly on Doom 1, and there are parts of the level design where you kinda go, 
 'hey I remember this, which is cool.
  Sound is ok, some of the weapon effects could be a bit beefier, but the soundtrack mantains the 
 atmosphere well.
  Overall a very good game, I'm just not convinced it's the great game it should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangler
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 7, 2004 11:05 am PT
Review:  The ridiculous low reviews are nonsense. If your system cant run the game, maybe its time to 
 update. The graphics are the best, period. The reviews giving the graphics low scores, are by people 
 trying to bring down the overall score of Doom3, because their mean spirited. 
  Give the game a chance. Dont review it until youve completed it. I cant believe people are reviewing 
 this game without playing through it first. The only thing I see to be a problem is the A. I, which 
 maybe fixed later with a patch. I cant wait for all the cool Mods to come out.
  Hats off to I. D. This game gave me nightmares!!
  
  My System:
  3.0 GHZ 800mhz P4
  9800 
 Pro
  1 Gig Ram
  David Green (Forest Park, IL)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrashCanMan
Rating: 3.1
Date: Aug 7, 2004 11:00 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I am so glad i didn't spend a ton of money upgrading my computer for 
 this game, because it sucks. But I am sure I am not alone in being "not surprised". 
  
  Yes the graphics are "good" but besides a few of the monsters in Doom, Far Cry looks better, alot 
 better. I'm going to ramble now... what is it with no alt fire? I remember hearing something about 
 a physics engine, did they forget to put it in? Why no bullet marks? Why even have grenades when 
 you can't hardly throw them without injuring yourself? Uhhh, "night vision" anyone. I am so glad 
 i didn't actually pay for this game, I would be pi55ed.
  
  But for those of your enjoying it have fun. I will play on to the end only cause i want to say 
 i did. I have played worse.
  
  trash
  ---------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schenn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 7, 2004 10:07 am PT
Review:  Im going to break it up and start off with saying this:
  
  Doom 3 was a remake of Doom 1. That was the INTENT. Maybe I only know this cuz I followed it so 
 deeply, but I thought that was well known. That is why the level layout and general gameplay is 
 the same, BECAUSE ITS A REMAKE. Except they added story, brought the graphics to anything better 
 then anything I imagined, and used the new abilities with shadows in games to create a truley frightening 
 experience.
  
  Gameplay:
  Scary as hell... especially as you get more and more into the game. Play it at night with the lights 
 out... The level of detail they put into it to make it seem like a real world is amazing. You will 
 walk down hallways and see videos playing on monitors describing the UACs inventions and movements 
 and other stuff like that. You can also find those movies laying around to be picked up so you 
 can watch them whenever on your PDA. Speaking of, the PDA is a great enhancement to the game. Audio 
 logs and emails giving you back story and codes to get into ammunition lockers and stuff like that. 
 Theres also hundreds of little computer monitors that you can interact with seamlessly to do something 
 in the environment. like move a crane, open a door, do stupid backstory stuff that helps create 
 this world that truley feels like it exists. GREAT GAMEPLAY. run and shoot Doom style... just like 
 it was intended. And just like it should be! it is Doom... to say, Doom3 plays too much like Doom, 
 is like saying, water tastes too much like water.
  
  Graphics:
  If I had to say something about Doom 3s graphics, then that would mean you were living in a cave 
 with fingers in your ears. so close to real life, your eyes will bleed.
  
  Sound:
  Freaky. First off, Nine Inch Nails did the music. So, if youve ever heard any of their tunes, youll 
 know to expect a lot from the background music. works very well with the action of the game to 
 get you in the mood. Sound effects are crisp and eerie. One scene, in particular, as I was walking 
 towards a locked door, a little girls voice came out of the air and said "hurry, you have to hurry" 
 then bloody footprints started walking towards the door. Just the footprints. Earlier in the game, 
 youre welcome to hear the bloodcurdling screams and last minute gunfire from the other marines 
 already under attack. 
  
  Value:
  Tha value of the game is the same as in Doom 1. Run and gun it harder and harder till you cant 
 anymore. There is multiplayer as well, but looks to be pretty much deathmatch oriented... of course, 
 the XBox version will have coop on live so thatll be better. But, if your a run and gun kinda junky, 
 the value is there... I already replayed the beginning 3 times to show other people how sweet this 
 game is. The value is there, people will come over to watch my play Doom 3 on my TV (gotta love 
 the Radeon 9800 Pros video out)
  
  Overall:
  Seriously one of the best games Ive ever played. Classic in its style, but so modern in its attempt. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroppedAtBirth
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 7, 2004 9:59 am PT
Review:  I just wasted more money. I had high hopes for this game. I was a big fan of the doom series and 
 hoped this would be another breakthru in game technology. This is a visually great game but the 
 game play is terrible and the game it way to scripted. The AI is a joke, the only difficult thing 
 abou the AI is they just appear from behind millions of hidden - sliding walls, this is annoying. 
 This make the realalistic felling of the base on mars feel more like a joke with all these hidden 
 moving walls. The weapons are nothing new and nothing impresive. The sounds is great if you can 
 get the surround sound to work. You only have an option to it on or off and quake kept saying it 
 couldn't detect my surround sound. That funny I have a brand new 6.1 EAX 3 system that works in 
 other games. I finally got it to work, no big difference but you can at least hear the idiot AI 
 run up behind you. All in all I can't wait for halo 2 or half life 2 to come out, since I beat 
 doom 3 in two days and didn't get much of a thrill out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTR_IceBerg
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2004 3:55 am PT
Review:  4 years to make, 3 days to beat... Another one under the belt.
  
  Doom III - the good, bad, and annoying
  
  GOOD
  - It's absolutely beautiful on a high-end 
 system.
  - Accomplishes the horror factor quite well
  
  BAD
  - the story-line and NPC interaction are weak
  - levels get repetitive
  - enemies are relentless 
 but rather stupid
  - some sounds are weak (weapons fire, monsters growl)
  - lacked storyline immersiveness
  
  ANNOYING
  - no flashlight in/on weapons... special forces/SWAT 
 use those
  - can't equip flashlight and a weapon together
  - no grenade auto-toss button (like Halo)
  - no weapon secondary fire or melee attack
  
  
 BOTTOM LINE
  Doom III was a cool experience, but there's no replay value and multiplayer sucks. Good solid old-school 
 FPS... and not much more.
  
  - icebergjtr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crodeman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 6, 2004 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Lets just get this straight, I am a huge fan of the original doom games. I own all of them including 
 ultimate. I awaited this game with anxiety and skeptism. I was afraid it was not going to be taken 
 seriously or done the way it was supposed to be. As soon as I ran doom 3 for the first time, I 
 got the chills, I knew from the moment I landing on Mars that this game was going to be an amazing 
 experience, but one thing I didn't realize was how repetative it was going to be. I know for the 
 most part that it is hard to have variety in first person shooters, bit it seemed like the aim 
 of the game remained without any twists. Now this simplicity may satisfy some of you, but having 
 the same baddies jump out of dark place and other sneak up on you, only to have you blow there 
 brains out, sometime gets lame, especially when that is all you do. Don't get me wrong, visually 
 the game is outstanding, and the simplicity of the gameplay, awesome, I also like the maps in the 
 game, the dark tone of the game also adds to the atmosphere. The one thing I complain about is 
 the variety and twists in the storyline, as a player you are never fully immersed in the story, 
 every now and then some radios you with something to do. Overall the game is excellent, but very 
 linear. I love it, others into the FPS genre should too, doom fans should be pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betelgeuse68
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 6, 2004 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Doom III is here, the game many of us have been itching to play. Was it worth it? Yes and 
 no. Yes in that it showcases ids latest technology which will spawn untold games that leverage 
 the engine. No in that in some cases its game play is not the greatest. In a nutshell, most of 
 the time take on two baddies at a time, find a PDA or terminal that unlocks a door you need to 
 get through, then repeat. There are some points in the game where you do take on several enemies 
 at once but they are the exception *not* the rule. Doom III simply has claustrophobic maps that 
 do not lend themselves to epic battles, i. e. situations with lots of enemies.
  
  Some people have criticized the contrived setting that is Doom III. It seems they were NOT paying 
 attention to the voice mails in those PDAs. For example, Greg Kasavin, GameSpots reviewer on Doom 
 III asks the question (now Im paraphrasing) Why are all the other marines getting slaughtered 
 while you manage to tackle hells hordes solo? Well in one of the PDA messages, one of the Marine 
 leaders clearly states that he would rather not receive newbie Marines but instead Marines with 
 some actual combat experience. Fighting other people to the point of killing is not an undertaking 
 that comes naturally for most people. It stands to reason that if you inject a bunch of people 
 who are utterly green into the setting that is Doom III, their performance will be shall we say, 
 underwhelming.
  
  Then theres the argument of not using a flashlight and weapon at the same time. In the case of 
 the handgun, I buy that. However before too long, you will need a lot more than a handgun to be 
 effective, a. k. a. two hands. In fact you stop running across bullets for the puny handgun. 
  
  PDAs again provide clues to what is going on. One PDA message speaks of the need to use all 
 manner of spare parts to keep things running since it seems the Martian base is having lots of 
 logistical problems upon your arrival. LOTS of them. The problem with the arguments Ive heard 
 is we assume that a flashlight in 2145 is exactly of the same variety that we have at home in 2004. 
 Why? The company who runs the Martian base in Doom IIIs setting, the UAC, clearly specializes 
 in interesting energy sources. This is clearly stipulated in videos that you come across in 
 PDAs that you pick up. It is nave to think that a flashlight in their setting is of the alkaline 
 guzzling variety we have today. Perhaps even the components that make up their flashlights are 
 necessary to fight off the quickly deteriorating conditions that you arrive into.
  
  Lastly theres the fact that on many occasions PDAs speak of people going psychotic and/or acting 
 odd. All you need is one psychotic person with a hell of a lot of serotonin (a real life brain 
 chemical that can create incredibly skewed and detrimental obsessive compulsive behavior) developing 
 an itch to get rid of flashlights because he/she has ascribed something evil to them. If you 
 knew what people in the real world, yes, earth in 2004, will do with excessive serotonin levels, 
 this is NOT unfounded.
  
  My point is that applying rigid logic in the day to day world in the setting of this game is a 
 bit asinine. I dont agree with Greg Kasavin or the other people who also made such arguments.
 
  
  Having gotten that out of the way my complaints with Doom III are with its simplistic game play 
 that we have seen many a FPS before this one use. It features an environment that is very staid 
 once you take away all the impressive lighting - Gee, another dark looking corridor with some 
 baddies that will pop up from panels that drop away or materialize out of thin air when youre 
 not looking. Doom III becomes predictable as far as this expectation goes. My last complaint, 
 and probably biggest, concerns the very weak weapons. They simply do not sound impressive. In fact 
 I would hazard to say that the mini-gun in ids Castle Wolfenstein 3D has way more oomph than 
 any weapon in this game.
  
  Criticisms aside, Doom III is a visual tour de force. The lighting is impressive no doubt about 
 that. id deserves to be patronized if for no other reason that we know theyve created the next 
 platform upon which lots of other games we will enjoy will be founded on. Outside of this Doom 
 III is fun, but I would NOT give it a 9 or 10 as oh so many people have done. Ultimately game play 
 DOES matter and in this regard Doom III falls short with conventions that have established themselves 
 since Quake III.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pebo1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 6, 2004 10:27 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Doom 3? I was caught up in the pre-release of Doom 3 and have been eagerly 
 waiting to play it for myself. As a fan of the series I could not wait to see what id Software 
 came up with this time around, which was pretty much a Doom game. 
  
  They did not stretch too far from what made Doom a great game in the first place, creatures that 
 scare you and you running around fragging everything in site. Do not get me wrong here. Doom 3 
 is a very good game. What I and a lot pf people out there were expecting was some gamble on the 
 part of id Software. You hear it stated by many game developers working on a sequel to a successful 
 game, We kept the strengths of the game, what people loved about the game and we are going to 
 add to that great game play to make it even better. 
  
  Well id kept the game play alright. What you have is a really great looking FPS with very little 
 else. There is not much evolution to the game play. If what you want is a frag fest this game gets 
 the A. I think a lot of people were expecting more innovation, something new that we have not seen 
 in a FPS before. Sure you got the PDA which lets you read or hear other peoples e-mails and recordings. 
 I think it is a nice touch as it immerses the player into the game. Would it have hurt to have 
 a second function on my weapons? Why not a flashlight on any of my weapons (although it was probably 
 intentional to have the flashlight separate to increase the tension) ? I would have opted for the 
 ability to create my own weapons from my deceased marines. 
  
  This argument is minor as you allow yourself to get pulled in by what is going on around you. You 
 have the banging of pipes and walls and the muffled voices of people in agony. Add to that the 
 radio transmission of your fellow marines screaming in pain or asking what they should do next. 
 The sounds in this game are excellent and compliment the game play nicely. 
  
  What is there to say about the graphics? The screen shots have been teasing us for sometime and 
 they do no justice to actually playing the game. Doom 3 looks amazing on the Ultra setting and 
 it does not look bad on the lower settings. There were times when I was talking to a NPC as I was 
 looking for something to kill and I got this feeling that I was actually playing a movie. Needless 
 to say you will not be disappointed by the graphics in this game and the details in the environments 
 are the best I have seen. 
  
  While I think Doom 3 is a very good game it is not great. The sound and graphics is top notch while 
 the game play is standard fare for a FPS. Doom 3s environment may get to some people as you in 
 the Mars complex and things can start to look all too familiar. A varied environment would have 
 helped this game immensely in its overall score. The only incentive to play the game over again 
 is to play it at a harder level? Give us something id, maybe some sort of random hallway generator 
 so it is different every time. 
  
  If you see Doom 3 on the store shelve you should buy it as it is a game worth playing. I recommend 
 playing alone and in the dark. At the very least wait a few months until the price come down and 
 then give it a go. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danthegamingman
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2004 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a revision of the original Doom with today's technology. The gameplay retains the first 
 two games core FPS action plain and simple. This is not a bad thing. You don't use vehicles or 
 transform into a sthealth mode and frankly I didn't want a Far Cry disguised as Doom. 
  
  I wanted to relive those college allnighters I pulled, where I should have been studying, when 
 in fact, I was playing Doom 2. Doom 3 does not disappoint on any level except the out of box multiplayer, 
 which is already being moded as we speak. 
  
  The graphics are simply THE BEST IN ANY GAME EVER!! Doom 3 supports an Ultra resolution setting 
 for next generation 512MB video cards, so Doom 3 is a true next generation game! The sound is just 
 as spectacular with layers and layers of creepy noises, screams, heart beats, machinary. The graphics 
 and sound combine to envelope the gamer into an atmosphere not like any I've ever experienced before 
 and I've been playing vedeos games for 25 years. 
  
  Much criticism has been made of the gameplay because its strictly a shooter. This is unwarranted 
 as the gameplay has been retained from the original games and thats what fans wanted and thats 
 what we got. What are gamers expecting? A scooter to ride down the corridors? Maybe a skate board 
 for some awesome rail action? Please give me a break. The Gameplay is simple, exciting, and addictive. 
 Remember Sometimes its the Simple Things in Life That are the Most Fun.
  
  The AI has been attacked as well. People we are talking about Demons and Zombies here! It would 
 be unrealistic for me to see one of these monsters perform a tuck and roll to dodge my fire. These 
 monsters have one thing in mind "Peel the Flesh From Your Body". The AI does become stronger in 
 Veteran mode as they move faster and out of the way at times.
  
  Go get Doom 3. Load the game, turn out the lights, turn up the sound, and let the Pain Began Baby! 
 Doom 3 is a technical masterpiece that retains the original Doom gameplay style. I wouldn't have 
 it any other way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 6, 2004 5:07 pm PT
Review:  First let me say I have only played through the first few missions of the game. I don't things 
 change much going forward though.
  
  Hardware: I have a top Alienware PC with the nVidia GeForce FX 5950 Ultra video card. The game 
 runs fine at 1024x768 and high detail (Ultra is the best) . There is some slightly texture draw 
 but not bad. So basically if you have anything older than about nine months you'll be stuck at 
 800x600 and/or really low detail.
  
  Graphics/Environment: Well on the one hand the look is very good. The environment is full of lots 
 of little details and video screens and terminals have cool animations many of which you can interact 
 with. Your PDA (which you use for email, audio, clips, etc) is interesting and helps flesh out 
 the story and give you clues to more goodies. But even with all that you are still running around 
 what feels like an abandoned station with monsters chasing you.
  
  The environment is annoyingly dark. This would be artistic and scary to a point but after awhile 
 it is simply annoying and hard on the eyes. It also makes it hard to appreciate many of the cool 
 graphics and gives the world a fake feel. Humans just don't live in the dark and in the future 
 don't we have lights that don't need power?
  
  Even the sound is so, so. Environmental noises are good but the weapons have a weak sound and the 
 monsters' screams are really not anything special either (I'm playing with a 5.1 system) . 
  
  Compared to an environment like that in Far Cry, Doom3 feels old, fake, and boring even with 
 all the new graphics tricks.
  
  Story: So far the story is interesting although you need to take the time to go through the info 
 on your PDA to really get the details. Many won't bother. The problem of course is that unless 
 you've never heard of Doom before you already know what the story is about and what is basically 
 going to happen. That leaves just the details and execution. Personally I found Half-Life and Far 
 Cry far more interesting on the story front.
  
  Gameplay: Ok, so how does the game really PLAY? Well unfortunately it plays like Wolfenstein 3D, 
 Doom, and Quake, nothing new. Monsters pop out and you shoot them. In between you reload and find 
 med kits and bullets. That's about it. The problem goes back to the environment. Everything is 
 so dark you often feel you are just in another dark hallway or room even when there is some really 
 neat stuff going on around you (and there are some pretty nifty areas) . But having to always sweep 
 around with your flashlight and then switch to a weapon and shoot at stuff you can't see anymore 
 just gets old real fast. A few levels like this would be ok but not for what seems like the whole 
 game (as others have said) .
  
  The game is moderately scary and somewhat gruesome (probably not good for children under 15) . Most 
 of the scariness just comes from suspense and the old 'cat trick' of things popping out at you. 
 After awhile you are not scared anymore you are just annoyed you can't see anything and that something 
 just popped out of an area you just looked at and cleared. Getting shot in the head from something 
 you can't see isn't all that exciting either.
  
  The game is somewhat enjoyable but even with all the hype and all the advanced graphics it is still 
 just an average first person shooter. I found Far Cry and Call of Duty to be much more interesting 
 and enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skeezuh
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2004 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I don't think i have ever anticipated a game this much. All of ID's games have pleased me especially 
 quake 3 for its enormous replay value. I expected the game to be a normal fps, but also expected 
 the mood and atmosphere to be the best yet. This game is a clearcut run and shoot fps, but afterall 
 thats the doom nostalgia. 
  The gameplay does have its flaws but i fear people amplify them due to expectations they had. The 
 enemy patterns were predicatable and easy to eliminate. But there is a certain feeling of gratitude 
 knowing that you're a one man army slaying demons from hell (no matter how stupid they are.) 
 
  
  The graphics are a given because never have i seen such detail, even at the lowest quality! One 
 of the reasons why the atmosphere is so belivable. Even if id makes tons of money with this game, 
 they will surely make more selling their engine to other companies. 
  
  My biggest gripe with the game is the sound. Sure enemy sounds were realistic and thrilling, and 
 their was excellent voice acting. However, I was REALLY craving for some old doom tunes come to 
 life with the excellent sound quality. I always enjoyed music in games, and without it it just 
 seems dull. 
  
  Even though the multiplayer is an afterthought, doom 3 should not be punished for it. Everyone 
 knew this game was not a quake 3 or unreal tourney, but a capturing single player experience. However 
 i do see myself playing this game plenty of more times (especially on nightmare level) . Of course 
 mods will also heighten doom's replay value.
  
  I normally dont do this but I loved the game jsut because it had "doom" in its title. Doom kicked 
 off all my gaming fetishes and this game captures that same feeling. The weapons, enemies, and 
 just plain fun feeling give it that doom nostalgia, which IMHO is more important than the graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pitts
Rating: 3.4
Date: Aug 6, 2004 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Well, its finally here, and it is completely and utterly awful in nearly every way.
  
  Lets go over the salient points of this game:
  
  The only impressive thing about Doom3 at 
 all is the graphics, but they dont seem to me to be that much of an improvement, if any, from 
 Farcry, an infinitely better game. While characters and textures are very detailed and crisp, the 
 environments are bland and repetitive. The lighting is well done, but the environment is so dark 
 its hard to appreciate them in anyway. So graphics are impressive in some ways, but the gameplay 
 is so horrendously bad it makes no real impact.
  
  Sounds are hit and miss. While I think some of the ambient sounds are rather impressive, the weapon 
 sound effects are terrible. The machine guns sound tinny; the plasma noise is nowhere near as good 
 as the old doom games (back in the days of 8 bit mono sound) , and the sounds of the monsters are 
 stupid and predictable. The voice acting is rather bland as, the main characters in the game are 
 down rather well, but the myriad of e-mails you sometimes have to hear, are voiced in a monotone 
 babble that sounds like they might have sprung for two voice actors for 20 different roles. 
  
  Gameplay is the most important element of any game, and this is where Doom3 utterly and completely 
 fails in all aspects. Here is my laundry list:
  
  1. The weapons are straight out of Doom or ripped off from other games, and are utterly uninspired 
 and completely boring. They lack any kind of special attacks or alternate methods of use, and there 
 is really no reason to use one over the other besides ammo conservation.
  2. The engine might be pretty, but it has ZERO interactivity, and is unimpressive in all other 
 elements. There is no body-specific damage, so a hit in the big toe to a zombie hurts them just 
 as much as a blast to the face. You dont leave any bullet holes or scorch marks or anything from 
 your weapons something included in FPS games for so long, I couldnt believe it was absent here.
 
  3. The big gameplay addition is a flashlight! This flashlight is necessary to see anything that 
 is going on in the dark lightless worlds of Doom3, but you cant possibly use it at the same time 
 as you hold a gun, even your pistol, I guess the flashlight needs two hands Even though interplanetary 
 travel and Martian terraforming are easily achievable by human technology, night-vision isnt nor 
 is lights apparently indoors. Never mind just TAPING a flashlight to your gun, these feats are 
 obviously beyond human comprehension. 
  4. The game really comes down to shooting a few zombies, finding a key to open a door to kill a 
 few more, and then repeating. There is no variety, the plot is paper-thin and elements to add some 
 depth and background to it were blatantly stolen from other much better games like System Shock 
 2.
  5. The entire game, other than a notable ten-minute jaunt in hell, takes place in narrow identical-looking 
 hallways and never allows you to get any kind of sense of scale or feel that the base is a real 
 place. It also involves backtracking to find a key or other stupid item you missed, or hitting 
 buttons to solve grav lift puzzles to get the next key. 
  6. The entire game is pre-scripted and holds zero replay value because of it. Everything happens 
 the exact same way every single time.
  7. Multiplayer in this game is utterly terrible, and really just involves being the first to blindly 
 fire down a hall, because actually seeing someone is impossible.
  
  In short, this game is awful. Some try and argue that it brings back the classic gameplay of 
 old-school first-person shooters. This is completely false. The old-school FPS game were some 
 of my favorites, noted for their enormous levels and fighting hundreds of enemies. This is not 
 the case in the newest Doom game; you fight maybe one or two zombies at once, and then hunt for 
 the next key or PDA
  
  I truly am worried at the amount of ridiculously high reviews, I am hoping that when the oohs 
 and aahs about the graphics die down, people realize that the actual GAME is shallow, boring 
 and utterly unoriginal in every way.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HallertauRogue
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 6, 2004 11:56 am PT
Review:  It is all about expectations and perspective. Doom 3 was hyped beyond anything we've seen before. 
 So it naturally has some huge shoes to fill. I think a lot of people have been somewhat disapponted 
 by this game because they expected too much out of it. Although it is a natural tendancy to expect 
 great things in all areas with a game like this, it probably isn't the best approach. From day 
 1 id has stated Doom3 is simply a re-make of the original Doom, just with teh kind of graphics 
 and sound presentation they always dreamed of. Doom is a 10+ year old game and therefore you shouldn't 
 expect a re-make of that game to have a whole of of innovation while keeping true to its roots. 
 It is important when reviewing and measuring this game to keep the right perspective and realize 
 this game was never intended to push gameplay inoovation. Intesead, we need to keep our expectations 
 realistic and realize this is a re-make of a very old school shooter.
  
  Obviously the graphics are top notch. There is no denying that. The sound is also incredible. Yes 
 the game lacks a bunch of background music, but again with the whole expectation thing we need 
 to remember id has chosen this on purpose. The lack of a full music score does draw you in and 
 make the action more realistic and haunting... much like Metroid Prime did. I like the minimalist 
 approach, but I know some people need a lot of glitter and shine even in their music tracks. to 
 each their own. What isn't very arguable is the sound quality. The fidelity of the sound, especially 
 in 5.1, is superb and adds mcuh to the atmosphere that draws you in.
  
  In the end, Doom 3 isn't the perfect game, but I feel id has achieved exactly what they intended 
 to do with the game. too many people put unrealistic expectations on this game and just set themselves 
 up for disappointment. I for one, am thankful id did not go and try to add all kinds of new gameplay 
 elements "a' la Halo" because if they did they would have strayed far past what makes a Doom game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giantraddish
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I think Gamespot nailed the review on this one so I'll keep mine brief.
  
  :) Graphics are gorgeous and crazy detailed. Lighting and background scenery usually in motion 
 makes for lively game world.
  
  :) Ran well even on my year old machine. (Athlon 3000, Radeon 9800 Pro 128, ran at 1024x768 all 
 effects on except AA - smooth frame rate whole game.)
  
  :) Good remake/tribute of Doom games. Action, no brainer, blaster. Lots of classic Doom shenanigans 
 like panels hiding monsters popping open as you pickup items and spawns dropping beasties behind 
 you.
  
  :) Liked the story line and presentation. Reminded me of the pre ride show at Universal Studios 
 Back to the Future . Witty, stylish, and presented without pulling you out of the game to much. 
 Sweet interface with in-game consoles/control panels.
  
  : ( All areas very small. Required for graphics I guess. I hope they didn't do this for the sake 
 of X-Box portability.
  
  : ( Creepy, but not scary. (Coming from someone who had to take breaks from Clive Barker's Undying 
 cause it freaked me out.)
  
  : ( Very monotonous in style. With the execption of final level you'd be hard pressed to tell one 
 area from another.
  
  : ( To much darkness. Quickly stops being scary and becomes tedious.
  
  : ( Multiplayer is a 
 joke.
  
  Two general gaming thoughts to share. Ironically this game really made me realize that graphics 
 quality is not that huge an issue to game quality. At moments when I was really into the game I 
 was thinking about shooting things and saving my butt, not about lighting effects. I felt no more 
 immersed into this game than I did into Far Cry, Call of Duty, NOLF, or Half-Life. I'm glad someone 
 is pushing the bleeding edge of graphics, but if developers have to choose between appearance and 
 game play, please sacrifice graphics to improve game play.
  
  I used to believe that save anywhere should be required in every FPS. After playing Far Cry and 
 Doom 3 back to back I have changed my mind. (Even with Far Cry's seriously flawed check point system.) 
 If a developer is trying to build tension in a game allowing you to hit F5 and relieve the tension 
 steals their power to control how you feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigs39
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 6, 2004 11:17 am PT
Review:  This is first impressions I have not finished the game I'm probably about 20% done.
  
  Game play: Pretty standard stuff for controls with nothing real new. On the plus side there are 
 good things like interactive stations where you can get health, open locked doors, find peoples 
 PDA's with voice messages on them. On the down side so far the whole game is on a space station 
 with very little room to maneuver around so get ready to get abused. Also instead of having good 
 enemy AI they just kind of put a bad dude in front of you and spawn another guy right behind you 
 so you get used to checking behind you first and then turn around and shoot the dude in front of 
 you. Also the weapons so far are not that good the pistol takes 3 or 4 shots to usually nail someone, 
 the shotgun takes too long between shots and the machine gun doesnt get a lot of ammo. 7/10
  
  Graphics: OK very cool graphics probably the best I have seen for any game but on the down 
 side it doesnt really matter because the game is so dark all the time you cant enjoy the graphics 
 and if you use the flashlight you can see but its your weapon, not good. 10/10
  
  Sound: Sounds are solid, better than average. Good bumps in the night, good weapons fire, good 
 voiceovers for the PDA messages and background communications that goes on, nothing really earthshakingly 
 new though. 9/10
  
  Value: All in all fun to play it just gets pretty linear going from small room to small room and 
 bad guys jump out at you and spawn behind you. So far I havent found a cool weapon either real 
 basic stuff. At $50 bucks its not a great value wait until it hits around $24 to $19 on sale or 
 get it used. 7/10
  
  Tilt: As you can see I am enjoying the game but the darkness all the time (especially because you 
 cant use a weapon while using the flashlight) , the overall poor weapons, and endless dudes just 
 popping up behind you instead of maneuvering room with good enemy AI is kind of taking away from 
 the overall experience. 7/10
  
  To sum up in one line: Doom 3 looks like heaven plays like hell (ha ha) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plamar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 6, 2004 9:37 am PT
Review:  I have to say, Doom 3's graphics really kick. Everything about the game's appearance comes through. 
 However, after playing Far Cry (back in March) the gameplay suffers tremendously. The weapons, 
 and the power behind the weapondry itself feels very weak and impotent. Otherwise, DOOM 3 is a 
 very polished game nonetheless. That will change soon though...
  MODS are coming out that greatly enhance the games playability and look. Look for these to shoot 
 my future expectations "UP" for the game, increasing it's value. I've recently installed "The Ultra 
 Extreme Quality MOD". It greatly improves the game's look by increasing shadow depth. Some of the 
 cutscenes are questionable with the MOD, but the graphics within gameplay look much smoother, rounder, 
 realistic and more cinematic. Best of all, you can always remove or disable the MOD to your liking. 
 Console gamers should cringe... (I do, and I've got an tricked out modded XBOX!) . And speaking 
 of the XBOX, Doom 3's arrival will be a pleasant addition to TV gamers.
  Overall, ID software has given the community a solid game the can EXPAND and GROW. MODS will make 
 this game %100 better than it already is. Other game developers should take heed. Let the gaming 
 community improve on what already is a classic product that will be talked about until Quake IV... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyRules
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 6, 2004 8:25 am PT
Review:  The graphics are the best out there. The sound is incredible. The atmosphere feels the part to 
 the T. What's not to love about this game? With all of the hype, there was major concern on my 
 part to whether this game could impress all those eager fan dying to have their socks knocked off. 
 Well first, I believe that Far Cry stole a lot of this game's thunder. Far Cry had tremendous graphics 
 and really blew me away. I was expecting (and hoping) Doom to blow me away but unfortunately it 
 wasn't leaps and bounds beyond what I've been seeing since March. I can only compare the interior 
 levels of Far Cry since I've only been outside in Doom for about 4 minutes... the combination of 
 manybrief moments on Mars' surface and I had to save a reload so I could keep going out there. 
 Everything that they do do with the graphics though is top notch and everything runs smooth. my 
 Dell with 2.6 GHz, 512MB Ram and 64MB GeForce Video card was able to run silky smooth on the high 
 graphics setting at the 800x600 resolution. Not the crispist but I thought the machine was going 
 to short circuit before playing this beauty. The game, though attempting to create a storyline 
 with dramatic events but it really doesn't come across that well. You typically get the story by 
 overhearing other people's converstation. It's enough for thie reviewer though. If you are looking 
 for depth in the character, look elsewhere. This game is extremely true to the original game, just 
 with way better graphics. The only complaint that I would have with playing the game is that the 
 rooms are just way too dark. I like dark and moody, but I also like to see the creatures that I'm 
 shooting at and wouldn't mind seeing them go down. I find myself switching to the flashlight very 
 often to see if they are still there. The one thing that I also feel should be pointed out, the 
 replay value of this game could be very limited to needing a desire to observe cutting edge graphics. 
 Fantastic game though. Very entertaining. I've gotten lost in the game a few times already to the 
 point where hours go by and it felt like about an hour! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebeliousPlague
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 5, 2004 11:38 pm PT
Review:  After buying Doom 3, I found the game VERY much to my liking. I was tired of all the new complex 
 FPSs where you need "stealth" or other intricacies that really annoy me. Even though i still find 
 it fun to drive a vehicle through a base and blow the hell out of anything moving, this game just 
 struck me as a blast to the good ol days when I was three and watched my brother play this wierd 
 game called "Doom." Don't expect to be sniping Imps, or hitting them with cars in this game. This 
 is a pure "dungeon crawl." You are a nameless marine trying to get through a Mars science facility 
 (similar to the first one) . Here's my view of things, by attribute:
  
  Gameplay - I found Doom 3's gameplay to be a little "lacking". It's very cut and dry, get a gun, 
 shoot monsters. It'd be cool if there were some more side things to do, you know, the little things, 
 like flushing a toilet or hacking stuff up. The game isn't necesarily boring, as much as reptative. 
 It definately does a good job of keeping you on the edge of your seat though. The game is extremly 
 frightening at times, and the random power outages, and spiders, really just scares the hell out 
 of me. This does add an extreme amount of thrill to the gameplay though.
  
  Graphics - Nothing short of awesome. Literally the best graphics I've probably seen in my short 
 life. The game's visual appeal is insane. The amount of detal put into everything is incredible. 
 I love every shred of visual stimulation in the game. I do believe it's even better than FarCry, 
 which I used to think had the best graphics. Even the detail on the display screens that don't 
 even mean anything towards the plot of the game, are insane. This sense of ambient details really 
 adds to the game and makes it seem like you're actually in a research facility fighting Imps.
 
  
  Sound - The sound is extremly good in my opinion. I don't have the best speakers and I still find 
 the sound awesome. It's very detailed and there's a lot going on in, lets say a factory, which 
 really adds an incredible amount of realism to the game. Playing it makes you feel as if there's 
 actually an Imp screaming at you, which does tend to scare you when you're compltely not expecting 
 it. 
  
  Value - I loved the game and was worth every dollar I've spent on it. Even though it's reptative, 
 (you're going through the same thing over and over) it never gets old. I'll never not be afraid 
 of Imps jumping at me, bodies flying by some diabolical force, zombies lurching out from the dark. 
 Everything about this game appeals to me. The replay value might not be that high though. You're 
 going through the same station, with the same goals, and the same exact weapons, only difference 
 is you're maybe spending a few extra bullets/cells/shells on one thing, or fighting a few more 
 monsters in one room than usual. It's definately a game that I'd probably play again in like a 
 month, so that it's a little more new to me or else it won't be that much of a thrill. 
  
  Tilt - Love the game (as I've stated many times in the past) and will be looking foward to playing 
 it with friends at LAN parties with the lights off or something along those lines. The only problem 
 I have with the game is the lack of Co-Op. It'd be awesome to go through a randomly generated station 
 with a friend via LAN/Internet. That would make the game's replay value sky rocket. Aside from 
 that, I strongly encourage anyone that's thinking about this game to go and buy it... It's beautiful, 
 literally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metric152
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2004 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This game what doom always aspired to be. I dont need to talk about the graphics because they speak 
 for themselves. Some complain about the game being too dark or uninovative, well the basics of 
 every fps is to shoot kill and move on. Yes doom also follows this trend but its not boring unless 
 you dont like most any fps in the first place. Doom has adopted a half life aspect in its game 
 play. You often go through the game and find scienctists and soliders pdas which contain information 
 about the prior events that took place there between the staff before all hell breaks loose. This 
 ads some story and sometimes humor to the game. Anyone who doesnt really like this game didnt really 
 like doom in the first as this game is patterned after doom and as such should play like it. If 
 you liked doom and want an awsome remake then this is just what youve been waiting for, and i found 
 it to be well worth the wait. (far cry isnt better -_-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimal
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 5, 2004 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 isnt a bad game as some may say otherwise. I think Doom might have been doomed from all 
 the hype it got. When you hype up a game to the point where its suppose to be the best fps ever 
 you dig a grave for it. If Doom 3 wouldnt have been so hyped up, and treated just like another 
 game more people would enjoy it. Its impossible to create a game that everyone will like. 
  
  Doom 3 is obviously highly sophisticated in the graphics department. I wouldnt say that Im 
 shocked by its appearance. But I do enjoy seeing a very sharp looking game. Im very hard to impress. 
 Ill be blown away when massive multiplayer online games have the graphics of doom 3. 
  
  Im about halfway through the story mode. Im having tons of fun playing it. Usually I lose interest 
 in single player games, so for Doom 3 to keep me looking forward to loading up from my last save 
 says a lot. 
  
  I have a sound audigy 2 zs and sennheiser hd280 pro headphones so I hear a lot of meticulous noises. 
 And I have a good sense of where the enemies are. And it always scares the crap out of me when 
 I have an imp behind me getting ready to slash away.
  
  Doom 3 mp is pretty straight forward. Theres not much variety, and theres nothing revolutionary 
 about it. Its mediocre compared to Unreal Tournament 2004. It is fun though if youre just looking 
 to do some fragging. If youre looking to be a serious competitive online player then D3 isnt 
 for you. I spent about 3 hours playing dm with my friends in town tonight. There was 4 of us in 
 the server, we all live relatively close. Pings were low and we have some good fights. Towards 
 the end we were all pretty bored. Plus you only get to select from one player model, and 4 different 
 colors. So dont expect to be Mr. Originality online. 
  
  Give D3 mp some time to evolve. Mods will most likely help Doom live on. 3rd party maps will hopefully 
 add some spice to the blandness of multiplayer. 
  
  I would recommend you wait a while before purchasing Doom 3 if youre looking for more than a good 
 single player game. Doom seems to be just a demo to show off the graphics engine so other companies 
 buy it. It's not as polished as it should be for the price it costs. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GollumOnline
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2004 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This is true DOOM at its best and who cares if its gameplay is remeniscent of games of old like 
 the original DOOM, the fact is that this version has graphics that should (if any other game making 
 companies are taking any notice) that are simply outstanding! My only comment right now is that 
 the system requirements are a little bit high for your average system if you really want to get 
 the absolute best from the game, but, if you are a hardware demon like i am then you can crank 
 up all the effects to the top in the games configuration and the game screams at you like one of 
 the bosses from hell and it makes all other graphics look like pathetic cartoons. Games like Doom, 
 Diablo, warcraft etc are the modern classics and should be taken for what they are. The guy's at 
 ID Software have created a truly adictive playable game with graphics that blow all else away. 
 There is plenty more that can be said about this game but to be honest it would be better that 
 you just go out and buy the game and play it for yourself and you'll be adicted.
  
  Id Software Dudes - You Rock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerofc3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 5, 2004 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I'm rewriting my review on this game because I wrote it right after beating the game. Right after 
 beating Doom3 I wanted to shoot more stuff and decided to play good ole Halo. After playing through 
 Halo (again for the 1,000,000th time,) I realized how bad Doom3 is in comparison. Halo was a much 
 more enjoyable game. Now I'm replaying RTCW and id did a great job with that game considering the 
 resctrictions at the time. The graphics aren't as shiney as Doom3's, but the graphics get the job 
 done and the game is much more fun. Doom3 needed some open endedness to it for starters. Dark corners 
 everywhere just isn't fun. Far Cry had a dark level, but it was on a mile long island with trees 
 everywhere and the onlything that could save you was the moonlight. That was scary. 
  
  Doom3 is one of the biggest let downs I've every played. Wait for HL2 or Halo2 or even STALKER. 
 Just play Halo1 or any of your other favorite shooters until they come out... which will hopefully 
 be this year.
  
  By the way I went out and got the 6800GT for Doom3... not much of a gain in performance over my 
 5900Ultra, but sure helps out alot in Far Cry and all my other games. 4x AA and 8x AS will actually 
 run games at 30FPS+ now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alec-Eiffel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 5, 2004 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3, straight from the pits of id software, has been in development for quite some time now. 
 With the always pending "when it's done" release date, you'd be hard pressed not to be annoyed 
 with id. Was it worth the wait, you ask? Hell yes. The beginning is slowly but surely a rise and 
 fall of the UAC and the Mars Base which it houses itself in. The action is, for the most part, 
 non stop, you're in for a thrill ride. The boss fights are just lead pounding fair, but do not 
 disrupt the dread machine that is Doom 3. Enough can't be said about the graphics either, in all 
 their high res glory, it's the best looking game ever. The sound, while not up to speed with the 
 graphics, still help provide a fright fest through and through. It provides nothing innovative 
 or revolutionary to the first person shooter genre, but if you're looking for some kick ass fun, 
 Doom 3 has plenty to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyBrazilian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2004 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Well here is my review... first one ever ^^
  
  
  Gameplay:
  Shoot anything that moves, after you have done that turn arround and shoot again. You can get scared 
 and make the game slower but all in all you can run like hell blasting everything in your way.
 
  The AI is lacking i must say that the smarters enemys are the zombie comandos the rest just rush 
 you, find the patern and never get hit again. It is a lot o fun however you can and will get bored 
 after some time. 
  
  Graphics:
  Im still gwaking, its amazing truly the most realistic game ever made from a graphical standpoint 
 that is. The fact that i have a low end pc and it still looks great is something to think about.
 
  
  Sound:
  Very earie. No have no soundtrack or anything like that so the atmosphere is good, however the 
 guns sound like crap, not enough power in my opinion.. it has the 5.1 thing but then again you HAVE 
 to have the 5.1 to fully apreciate it if you dont you will be missing out on some nice scares.
 
  
  Value: Well, you can allways give the sp another shot in the harder difficulties but i wont bother... the 
 mp is fun but it lacks some polish, some lag issues are serious but other than that its your ordinary 
 DM..
  
  The game is great, add a couple of mods and it comes together for an interesting package. It is 
 NOT superb for it has many issues however i recommend you getting it if you are a first person 
 shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomBomb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2004 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Let me say I have an Alienware 51M laptop with a Raedon ATI9600Pro card with 128MB of RAM. And 
 I also had the crashing to desktop issue on my system. But being that I work on computers all day, 
 I figured it out it was a video issue. This is more of a Raedon issue who are trying to hoof it 
 to get out a new driver, my is OEM with Alienware, so, I might have a wqait for this fix. But I 
 found a way around it. I play at 800x600 at medium detail. Once I got off of high detail, It runs 
 great. The game is still graphically enjoyable. I have found this game to be a suped up Doom, and 
 that is exactly what I expected. This game is excellent and I am loving every minute of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 5, 2004 10:05 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a decent game. Here are some positives and negatives.
  
  Gameplay- The game plays well on minimum spec machines on low detail, and still looks fabulous. 
 The experience however a little on the scary side, is kind of bland. The levels are all realistic 
 and convincing but a little too monotonous. They should have in my opinion gone with some bright 
 and some dark missions to make the dark areas stand out more and perhaps be a little more scary.
 
  
  Graphics- The graphics are wonderful, perhaps the best I've seen so far out of any game. The realism 
 of not only the modeling and textures but also the animation is great. The creativity involved 
 in making all of the moving and buzzing machinery in the base is top notch as well. HOWEVER, once 
 again it all follows the same theme, it's as though they've done something very well and refuse 
 to budge from it in rendering another environment. What about the brief glimpse of the surface 
 of mars we get early on in the game? More of that would be great.
  
  Sound- Sound is fantastic except for the weapons and footsteps. It's as though it was produced 
 by two different teams. The machine gun sounds like a popcorn popper. The chaingun sounds similar 
 and not very powerful at all. The shotgun is decent. The pistol is awful... alot better job could 
 have been done on the sound.
  
  Value- Doom 3 is not worth $50 in my opinion. Wait for the bargain bin people or borrow your friends 
 copy. The multiplay is a joke with only 4 people, a few levels, why bother?
  
  Reviewers tilt- I give it an 8, cause I loved Doom 1 and 2, and this is a fun game to play through, 
 but not for 50 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ion777_99
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2004 9:39 am PT
Review:  Once again, people drowned themselves in hype. Now you're all sad because Doom 3 did not meet what 
 you dreamed up? I remember when the first Doom came out. Gamers, who at the time had only witnessed 
 side scroll action, were rejoicing everywhere. Everyone knows id provided a leap in gaming technology. 
 Besides the new technology introduced, the original Doom was fun. I think everyone was EXPECTING 
 another quantum leap from id (which they actually did provide graphically as in the first Doom) . 
 id just made a new game - that's all. Doom 3 is not for everyone. Although it misses on the complexity 
 of labrinths which were so loved in the previous Dooms, the action does bring back some good old 
 memories. The old style arcade action is just flat out fun, but as with any game, it's all subjective. 
 Sure I look for more depth in games, but since Doom 3 is straight out action, I'll leave those 
 missing ingredients to others in my library. Also, the learning curve on this is nada. Doom is 
 Doom, Doom was not trying to be Far Cry or Halo. So take it easy tigers and relax. Simply put, 
 this is a beatifully crafted old style shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jarith
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2004 7:22 am PT
Review:  Terror, it is when you have no control of what's happening around you. It's when you're all alone, 
 and you realize every step you take could be your last. It is Doom 3! 
  
  Let it be noted, I don't scare easy. All my life I've been looking for that movie that really scared 
 me, I mean REALLY scared me. Oh I'd get my occasional scare, like in Jurrasic Park, when the raptor 
 jumped up toward the ceiling, after our heroes, that made me jump out of my seat But these scares 
 were only brief, mostly because I could easily set my mind to believe, 'ok, I am in a room or theater 
 with a bunch of other people, what I am seeing is not real.' The one movie, which I can honestly 
 say messed with my mind and stayed with me for days after seeing it, was the Blair Witch Project. 
 I think it was partly because of how it was filmed, not as a movie, but as a real-life account. 
 I know the videos were not real, but they were convincing. In games, I'd say the game that really 
 made me jump for the first time was Resident Evil, the first one. Unfortunately these were one 
 1 or 2 moments in the entire game. The game itself didn't scare me. Nothing, movie, nor game has 
 ever terrified  now. 
  
  I will start my review as saying, Doom 3 is probably the most horrifying, adrenaline pumping game 
 you will ever play. It is not for the weak hearted, I highly recommend not letting a child watch 
 you play because it could honestly scar them for life. "Dad, I'll never forget that game you played 
 when I was little. It gave me nightmares for a long time." For the past 4 years, id Software has 
 been hyping up this game, bragging how awesome the graphics are and how they would change the gaming 
 industry forever, again. Until the beginning of this summer I honestly wasn't looking forward to 
 it's release. Yea, graphics will be cool, but Half-Life 2 is where it will be at, cool story and 
 lots of action. What wins this gamer's highest praise, is not what you see when walk around. It's 
 what it does to you when they turn the lights off and the screen goes black. Imagine you're in 
 a room, sitting alone. Suddenly the lights go off and it's completely silent. Suddenly your own 
 breath is the only sound you hear. Then out of nowhere someone takes a brown paper bag full of 
 air and pops it right next to your ear! It would take you a while before your system settles down 
 even after the lights come back on. I can say right now that my system still hasn't settled down 
 from playing D3 15 minutes ago. This game is not a fast action FPS, if you want that, go back and 
 play CoD's single-player game some more. This is the Webster's dictionary definition of thriller. 
 You walk into a room, you know something is going to happen. You don't know when, or from where, 
 or how. Now that I got your attention, let's talk about Doom 3's second major feature. 
  
  The graphics in Doom 3 take video gaming to the next level. It sounds almost weird, but the bloody 
 corridors, the dark rooms of the Martian base are some of the most gorgeous graphics I've ever 
 seen in a video game. The game's excellent use of lighting, and textures are jaw-dropping. I don't 
 even have it at it's highest setting! The Ultra Quality setting requires a 512mb Video Card (no 
 that's not 512mb of system RAM) , which is not even out yet. I am running the game on High Quality, 
 with everything on, except anti-aliasing, which I tried and made the game look even better but 
 really killed the frame rate. Even the video monitors you walk up to in the game look ultra-sharp. 
 The character models look disturbingly real, right down to facial movements. 
  
  The sound really sucks you in and makes you think you are really there. Every room has it's own 
 unique things going on to entertain your ears. There is no music, other than the intro and main 
 menus. If you really want the ultimate immersive ness, turn out he lights, crank up your sound, 
 especially if you have a great surround sound card, and let the game fool your senses. 
  
  The game's multiplayer is it's weakest point - for now. I've jumped into a few games. It's cool 
 to try out some of the new weapons in a multiplayer environment, and I could see getting into the 
 Last Man Standing or round-based mode, but it's nothing that really, for now, wants to make you 
 stay online and play the single-player game later. You can easily set up servers for more than 
 4 players, I was on one briefly with 16. id said the game will be very customizable and moddable. 
 Already there is work on a mod to allow you to play the game in coop with 2 players going thru 
 the single-player story together. This is going to be an X-box only feature for the out-of-box 
 game, but hopefully people will be playing coop on the Pc version by the time the game ships on 
 the X-box in October. 
  
  Doom 3 really deserves all the hype it's getting, even now that it's released. It's an instant 
 classic and one of the best FPS of all time, hands down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nacrilic
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 5, 2004 7:13 am PT
Review:  I have exactly the same stability problem as another reviewer "Atlasscot". I also have an ATI 9800 
 Pro, with 1G of ram, and a 2.8GH ADM processor. I have the latest drivers (even tried the new beta 
 4.9 catlyst driver) and still the game will only play for a couple of minutes at a time before 
 crashing to desktop with no error messages. This may be an issue with ATI and the card manufacturer 
 (ASUS) , but this should have been picked up by Activision or ID while in testing. So while the 
 game looks great when it plays, the whole experience has been ruined because of stability issues. 
 Rating a game is rating the whole experience, and thats why my score is as low as it is... it should 
 probably be lower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dd51
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 5, 2004 5:09 am PT
Review:  Criticizing this game for being guilty of lapses in logic, when the premise is that you are a 21st 
 Century Space Marine in a base on Mars, is just plain silly.
  And preemptively denegrating the opinion of ID fans that this game is going "old-school" and that 
 this is a bad thing, is an argument that would make any politician proud. Take an opposing and 
 extremely valid point and dismiss it as invalid right off the bat.
  
  Furthermore, after reading this review and the criticisms, this game should have recieved much 
 lower than an 8.5. 
  
  From an ID/Doom/Quake fan this game is what we have been waiting for. When I'm playing this game 
 and I find myself on the edge of my seat, hunched over, swaying in my seat to see around a corner, 
 squeezing my mouse so tightly that my hand hurts and then jumping when some hideous thing jumps 
 at me from the shadows I'm having a great time! I'm not thinking "gee this is so derivitive," or 
 "my, my how linear this game is" or "hmm, this level design is so pedantic." Give me a break.
 
  
  To use an analogy, everyone knows that magic is fake... even the best magician is a faker. Same 
 with games, they are not reality but seek to illicit a real response from the audience.
  
  Doom 3 will scare you, startle you and make you sweat. You will love it. And even though the game 
 is "fake" your feelings from playing it will be very real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arzenal
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2004 4:51 am PT
Review:  The reviewers giving this game a 9.5-10.0 are outta their minds. Games that are 9.5-10.0 should 
 be reserved for games that revolutionize or change existing gameplay. Games like Half-Life, Knights 
 of the Old Republic, Starcraft. Those games changed the way we think about our hobby. Doom 3 does 
 not do that.
  
  Doom3 is good, it's easily a 8.5 out of 10.0 But here is the plot... find key, find health, find 
 ammo, kill bad guys. No real story, no real character development. Oh and I hope you like running 
 around in the dark for the first hour or so. Apparently the flashlight is the most important thing 
 on Mars.
  
  But it's fun, lots of fun. The graphics are amazing and the sound is fantastic. But it sticks to 
 a 10 year old formula from Doom 1. If thats what you like, then by all means get this game. If 
 you are looking for a revolution in the FPS world, then you will be waiting for another game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seamus0g
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 5, 2004 1:02 am PT
Review:  I don't know how anyone can say this game isn't f-n scary as hell. And predictable... yea, I guess 
 if you consider being scared to death every step you take then yea it is predictable. Yikes, I'm 
 still in Alpha 1 and I fear every move I make. Guess I'm just a wuss.
  
  And I love the darkness... i have read the review complaining that there should be a permanent 
 light source... but that is missing the whole point: this game is about the darkness and the fear 
 of not knowing what will jump out at you. The whole explore-the-darkness with a flashlight... with 
 a trembling finger on the weapon-switch key... is a whole point. You HAVE to be vulnerable. Brilliant, 
 and I look forward to the next 10 hours of fear! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 4, 2004 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Here's my two cents.
  
  Graphics - The best rendering engine to date. The Far Cry engine was wicked, and the Doom 3 engine 
 takes that up a notch. Can't wait to see this engine licensed for other titles.
  
  Sound - Superb! Crystal clear surround sound that's second to none. Mood music keeps you on the 
 end of your seat as well.
  
  Gameplay - So far I'm having a hoot. Be scared out of my wits playing in the dark over and over. 
 Don't go into a dark room without your flashlight and lots of ammo - heh. Story, which others have 
 complained about, is quite good. Not sure what the complaints were about.
  
  Overall - This title is a blast and it will keep you on the edge of your seat. The rendering engine 
 is truly cutting edge with sound to match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheStorm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2004 10:42 pm PT
Review:  As the gory picture of a rabits head ripped off, with a hand sticking through it flashed through 
 my head back in December 1993, I remember sitting back after just playing DOOM and saying, my god. 
 What a game. A classic, I never before had been so IMMERSED in a game before. I was scared around 
 every corner, I jumped a hundered times. It was great.
  
  Fast foward to 2004, finaly the sequal to DOOM came out, and I was not disappointed. After reading 
 the Gamespot review, I felt some areas Greg *which he is entitled to his own opinion* was harsh 
 on DOOM 3. I felt this was way better then FarCry. But I guess I'll jump right into it.
  
  First and foremost the thing you will say when you boot up DOOM III is the graphics... well duh. 
 DOOM 3 has easily the best graphics EVER, compared to any other. Halo 2 will not even get close 
 to this. The lighting is unbelievable, as well as the textrues and animation, flawless is one word. 
 Carmack has not done such an engine "jump" since Quake. This one will require upgrades but that 
 is expected with most id games. The grahpics immerse into the game, just as DOOM did 11 years ago. 
 DOOM 3 will make you drool, I have had people that are not "gamers" walk by my computer and start 
 watching, amazed on how good they look, and how real everything felt.
  
  Equally the sound was impressive, full 5.1 support, and you can tell, everything sounded so great, 
 even the little clinks and clanks of small pipes or machinery within the Mars base going off. And 
 you could close your eyes and walk right up to it, just by following the sound. The voice acting 
 as well as the music was perfect. All around the sound helped the game be as immersive as the first 
 DOOM, it scared you as much as the visuals did. Definatly get some Zalman 5.1 headphones at least 
 so you can experince DOOM 3 to the fullest. 
  
  As for the Value of the game it goes down a tad. But not much. DOOM 3 was never meant to be a multiplayer 
 game, Greg should look at that more, Quake 3 was the MP game, this was really 100 percent focused 
 on single player. Though I still enjoyed a few hours of DM on DOOM 3, the maps were well balanced 
 and the weapons fun to play with. This is no CS or UT2004 but it will add some length to your experince. 
 The single-player took me about 24 hours to beat, any more with a FPS that is great, most FPS's 
 barley go over the 10 hour mark. But this had a satisfying playing time, not too long, not too 
 short. I think the value was great, of course it could of been more with MP but that was not the 
 focus, I think it is well worth anyone's money. And not bashing Greg I think he did not put thought 
 on how many FPS games out there are quite shorter then DOOM 3.. ahem FarCry *though it was a fun 
 game*.
  
  Gameplay, now it's not revolutionary. But it is a step foward. Gameplay wise it is shoot, run, 
 push buttons not much choice or diversity, everything is laid out for you, and missions told, pretty 
 linear, unlike Half-Life and most likley HL2's multple path gameplay. Though with the technology 
 behind it, and the very well done map designing, DOOM 3 has a awesome gameplay experince. It is 
 the best FPS I have played since Half-Life almost 6 years ago. It was scary, immersive and just 
 fun. It is a step further, but I think only Valve can take a step over HL with HL2. When it comes 
 down to it DOOM 3 is run and gun, but it does it with such atmosphere it really adds a new layer 
 to gameplay. It's the best FPS I have played years, but still you can tell it's not quite "the 
 next big thing".
  
  Over all I give this game a 9.3 out of 10. It's a superb game, anyone that has a computer should 
 slam down his money right now to play one of the scariest games ever. (Yes even more so then System 
 Shock 2 and Undying) Though it is not the next step in gameplay methods, it's technology is definatley 
 next generation. I recomend this to all. It will keep you busy until HL2 arrives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prodratio
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 4, 2004 10:20 pm PT
Review:  First, anyone who says that this is "going in the same direction of HalfLife" doesnt know what 
 the hell they're talking about. Doom came WAY before Halflife AND Halflife secretively STOLE the 
 story from Doom's novel. I look at the Halflife 2 engine theft as bad karma more then think of 
 it as wrong. But the makers of Halflife never learn, they just continue to lie to their fans.
 
  
  Now, on with the review. The graphics need no explaination and I really dont know why people under-rate 
 the sound also. Both are phenominal and unlike anything we will see for the next few years. I suggest 
 taht if you dont agree, make sure you have Surround Sound turned on in the Advanced Options and 
 shut up.
  
  Gameplay really isn't that bad at all either but the reply value should be a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmbarnett
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 4, 2004 10:10 pm PT
Review:  To give this game the same rating as PainKiller (an 8.5) is totally absurd. And for the reviewer 
 -- GREG -- to give the sound in this game anything less than a 9 or 10 smells distinctly like big 
 jaded gamer. He complains about the main character not having a name? If you want names and personality 
 go play the Sims, this is exactly what iD said it would be, a retelling of the old Doom. 
  
  The gameplay does get somewhat repetitive, but if you play through the game on any level other 
 than easy, the fighting is always tense and exciting, especially when you're down to pounding on 
 an zombie 'cause you forgot to shoot in bursts and opted for spray-n-pray instead. There is no 
 reason not to give the sound in this game at least a 9 (with the possible deduction of a point 
 for the weapon sounds, which could use more OOmph. Every time you hear the Devil chuckling, or 
 that REALLY creepy bit about the woman and her baby, COME ON! That's just horrifying.
  
  I don't know what the GS reviewer was expecting, but giving this game anything less than a solid 
 9 says more about the reviewer than the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonesey11
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 4, 2004 10:00 pm PT
Review:  As I play Doom 3, I am reminded of the parallel the game draws with Return to Castle Wolfenstein: 
 both remakes of a classic id franchise, both widely hyped, both very beautiful, both unremarkable. 
 The difference, of course, is that Doom 3s visuals are the best Ive ever played and that RtCWs 
 multiplayer was actually substantial.
  
  Lets get the obvious out of the way first: Doom 3 is a beautiful game. With my system, I have 
 the privilege of being able to play the game on High quality with all of its special effects 
 turned on, and let me say that it looks remarkable. The lighting is so dynamic, so convincing, 
 that mere screenshots dont do it justice. Shadows obscure parts of your vision, your flashlight 
 causes surfaces to shine and intense heat causes waves to appear in your vision. The game benefits 
 from the engine in the model department as well, with each enemy feeling frighteningly real and 
 genuinely scary. Early screenshots had me worried about the very plastic look of some of the 
 characters ala Deus Ex 2, but playing the game erased all seeds of doubt from my mind: if for no 
 other reason, buy this game for its unbelievable graphics.
  
  Unfortunately, Doom 3s visuals, like most id games, are about the only extremely strong point 
 of the game. Dont get me wrong: Doom 3 is definitely fun to play, but its gameplay is wholly uninspired. 
 Enter a new section, scout it out with the flashlight, move forward, get cover, shoot new enemies 
 in front of you, look for inevitable ambush, and move on. This is standard shooter fare with a 
 capital S; for a company that literally invented the genre, I expected a bit more innovation in 
 areas other than graphics. As it is, though, the game offers plenty of thrills just by the uneasy 
 hesitation it inspires: you just *know* theres an ambush waiting for you around that next bend, 
 and it scares the pants off of you. The fear in this game is created mostly with the moodiness 
 and anticipation, since ambushes which are meant to frighten you become laughably anticipated once 
 you get the hang of things. Although a few times, sequences did give me a thrill. For example, 
 early in the game I found myself trapped in a room with a Pinky Demon ramming the door. I kept 
 my shotgun poised on the door as it deformed with each ram. It stopped momentarily and the next 
 thing I knew, the demon had decided to crash through the nearby window instead, throwing me completely 
 off guard. It is sequences like this that sell games to me. All in all, though, the gameplay offers 
 nothing new to the FPS genre but really doesnt detriment: When one thinks of Doom they think of 
 blasting demons and finding the red key, and while the key finding has been seriously toned down 
 (and thinly veiled) , the blasting is still sure to satisfy.
  
  A lot of people have been complaining about the fact that you cant equip a light source and a 
 weapon at the same time. While, yes, this doesnt make much sense, it does offer a bit more depth 
 to the gameplay than wouldve been to begin with. The lighting sells the scares, so wheres the 
 sense of foreboding if you can constantly scan the dark and immediately shoot at whatever you see. 
 The games current method is effective because if encourages conservative use of the flashlight 
 so your guard doesnt go down, while at the same time giving combat a frantic mood.
  
  As far as sound goes, my game benefited greatly from 5.1 speakers: not just a gimmick, but a real 
 strategic element. More than I few times I had to rely on my ears instead of my eyes to identify 
 the direction of a bad guy. The monsters sound fantastically menacing and the ambient effects- 
 from the hiss of steam to the faint whisper ofsomething- add to the mood intensely. Likewise, 
 voice work here is top notch. I have one gripe, however: weapons sound ridiculously low-power. 
 One would expect a machinegun to boom with a tremendous crackle, however these sound effects sound 
 like tiny ball bearings being dropped into empty glasses quietly.
  
  Speaking of weapons, they are fairly unbalanced. While the shotgun, received early, is quite useful, 
 some of the weapons lose their usefulness quite quickly. Instead of requiring tactics to effectively 
 wield, apparently the bigger the weapon is the better. Also, I found rockets and grenades to be 
 less useful than they would sound due to their splash damage. And why the heck cant you throw 
 grenades while holding weapons like all other games? The weapons included are all reminiscent of 
 the Doom franchise, with one newcomer acting as a pseudo-weapon later in the game. I wont reveal 
 it here, but it offers for a bit more strategic play.
  
  Lets talk story: While id claims that Doom 3s story is immersive, thats really just their way 
 of saying, Lets make the player read e-mails and listen to audio clips until the end of time 
 so they can extract yet another weapon cache code. The game features a PDA which really kills 
 the mood- having to sift through messages and audio files is okay if youre a story junkie, but 
 this stuff isnt even interesting AND it detracts from the flow of the game. I believe that if 
 they didnt contain access codes, nobody would even bother reading them. However, tidbits that 
 are included on TV monitors are a fresh new way of presenting video in a game. Like little flash 
 animations, these movies and interfaces run with complete crispness and perfect animation. Their 
 interactive nature eliminates the need for a use key as well: just approach and use the easy-to-understand 
 interfaces.
  
  In the multiplayer department, Doom 3 literally offers nothing new: 5 (?) maps, 4 players, and 
 a helluva time finding open servers that dont lag you to death. Straight deathmatch for the most 
 part offers nothing we havent seen time and time again and even some of the sound effects seem 
 recycled from Quake 3! I sincerely hope the mod community can help rectify this situation.
  
  In conclusion, Doom 3 will go down in the record books as another one of those games that broke 
 the boundaries of how a game can look. Its mood is second to none and the lighting will be tough 
 to beat. However, if you were looking for a game that revolutionized gameplay, youll be sorely 
 disappointed. Although, why reinvent the wheel when the formula is tried-and-true? Doom 3 offers 
 an intense shooter experience thats still a blast to play. I just cant wait for a developer to 
 combine its amazing visuals with truly groundbreaking gameplay. Until then, enjoy this demonstration 
 of the future of computer game graphics.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chalupamonk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2004 8:14 pm PT
Review:  While it's true that the gameplay is repetitive -- and the scares eventually cease to scare once 
 you've grown used to the game's warning signals -- by no means is this game undeserving of at least 
 a 9.0. I was somewhat disappointed with Greg Kasavin's review, just as it was obvious he was disappointed 
 by the game. But I fear he may have let his disappointment get the better of him, at least on a 
 few points. 
  
  My biggest concern is his assessment of the game's sound. The weapons sound quite powerful and 
 the monsters sound absolutely terrifying, from the roars of imps to the chittering spiders and 
 gibberish-spewing soldiers. The environments constantly offer amazing soundscapes, and you'll often 
 hear strange clanks and twist around only to find that it came from a machine operating as normal 
 behind you. And I can't help but wonder what a "real" soundtrack would add to this game. The game 
 is not about drama, this much is certain. It's a thoroughbred, white-knuckled action game, and 
 the soundtrack is very fitting. A serious, orchestral score would only make the game seem silly, 
 and I have to commend Chris Vrenna for putting out some of the best game audio I've ever heard.
 
  
  I also feel like I should comment on Greg's take on the game's "realism." While it certainly looks 
 as realistic as one could expect, it would be hard to miss the game's countless tongue-in-cheek 
 references and pokes at itself. From an audio log detailing precisely why chainsaws would be shipped 
 to Mars to spam mail readable through the PDAs of fallen researchers, I think id makes it clear 
 that the game is going to toe the line between absurdity and reality quite precariously (Indubitably) . 
 The dramatically overpowered sentry bots are referenced a number of times in PDA audio logs and 
 e-mails -- many of the denizens of Mars City express concern over the presence of such overpowered 
 security systems. To say the game is misses its mark with realism is missing the point.
  
  And a bunch of random carping: The AI is better than Greg gives it credit for -- none of the enemies 
 can be treated as they were in Doom and Doom 2. The "bigger is better" approach to weapons is clearly 
 intended to invoke memories of the classics. As I already mentioned, the game really fudges the 
 line between reality and fantasy. And while the game is indeed very dark, light is not the rarity 
 Greg's review makes it out as.
  
  But it's time for me to stop being a jerk and start being agreeable. The scares gradually do fade, 
 and the physics really aren't anything special. Plus, the Multiplayer element is indeed lame, and 
 apparently there are bugs yet to be kinked out with the server browser. The level design can become 
 pretty repetitive as well.
  
  
  To sum it all up, I have to say that this is one fantastic game. The gameplay is simple yet effective 
 and fun, the graphics and sound are unmatched, and the value is through the roof -- I will be replaying 
 this as soon as I finish it. Couple that with some mindless backpatting and a 10 for a reviewer's 
 tilt, and you've got yourself a nice 9.4 to take home.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Etherium
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 4, 2004 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Given the protracted development period and ubiquitous hype for Ids Doom 3, one would expect that 
 on August 3, 2004, a new classic would be born. Well, my mother was in labor 36 hours with my brother 
 and hes not exactly Brad Pitt so maybe this logic is a flawed from the get-go. Its easy to let 
 emotion get in the way of reason, especially with this much seething anticipation, but suffice 
 it to say that Doom 3, despite its grand graphical splendor, suffers from mediocre gameplay that 
 ultimately serves to undermine the experience as a whole. 
  
  If the intention of Carmack and the gang was to create the original Doom experience with one of 
 the glossiest coats of paint youve ever laid eyes on, then J. C. and the No-Sunshine Crew have 
 done a masterful job of carrying out their plan. But I think heres the real truth: Id makes great 
 game engines, but this is where their virtuosity ends. Am I saying the remaining game elements 
 are horrible? Not at all, but many of those elements are just not up to par. The arcade-like, unrealistic 
 gameplay almost seems like an anachronism in todays FPS market and only serves to belie the surrounding 
 realism of the games character models and detailed environments. 
  
  Briefly said, Doom III is fun, its fun to look at, its fun to show off, but a well-rounded game 
 it is not and because of this it will never be considered a true classic in my opinion. 
  
  8.8 is my final score. And this is all in my very humble opinion.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickolus
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 4, 2004 7:44 pm PT
Review:  A masterpiece of horror. If you ever wanted to feel as terrified as a crew member from the movie 
 "Alien" this is your game. It's as if you're walking around the town of "Silent Hill" in first 
 person. The jaw-dropping visuals create a completely immersive experiance that will suck you in 
 and keep you jumping around every dark corner. The lack of in-game music is definately to it's 
 benifit, causing a clausterphobic feeling of abandon in a dark sea of screams, growls, footsteps 
 and demonic laughter. It is endlessly enjoyable to blow holes in zombie heads and shotgun blast 
 the flesh off of their bodies. This game proves that "old school" fast-paced action shooting, can 
 still give smart AI and tactical gameplay a run-for-it's-money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2004 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm not even going to address the graphics, because you already know how amazing they are. 
 I will address the high point of this game, and it's shortcoming. The high point: it's damned scary! 
 It has so much depth and atmosphere it could almost be survival/horror. The downside: it's doom... 
 as in doom II from a gameplay standpoint. I look forward to games made with this ridiculously beautiful 
 engine which allow a greater degree of interactivity... for instance... imagine a Morrowind style 
 RPG on this engine? Are you drooling? I am. Bottom line... scary, excellent, fantastic, but oldschool 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nebulaskytrick
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2004 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I think Gamespot's review is pretty far off the mark. The graphics are easily the most advanced 
 to date, and they are utilized artfully. The sound design is absolutely brilliant (although in 
 some instances a bit cheesy) and is integral to the suspense in ways that call to mind the Silent 
 Hill series. The fear in Doom 3 is not in the demonic creatures that pop out of nowhere, but DREAD. 
 The knowing that a fight is just seconds away. Searching every dark corner of the room for monsters. 
 The flashlight is a brilliant game mechanic. A tac light or helmet light would be disasterous to 
 the way this game plays with darkness. I don't scare easily, but this game has frightened me more 
 than any other game, movie, or book ever has. There are a lot of other point which I strongly disagree 
 with in the Gamespot review, but I'd rather go play the some more Doom 3 than type anymore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiny
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2004 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Final verdict: Amazing graphics, stunning sound, extremely frightening but bland, repetitive AI 
 and a few glaring oversights bring down the score on Doom III. Here's something that will no doubt 
 anger the Doom fanboys out there: I think that they should rename Painkiller to Doom III and rename 
 Doom III to Resident Evil IV. Read on.
  
  Lets start with the oversights: There's no end-level statistics roundup. You know, enemies killed, 
 accuracy, secrets found. This is an old school feature that modern games have ditched in favor 
 of the dreaded action FPS "story line".
  
  Secondly, no SECRETS. the Doom/Quake series were so much fun because of those hidden walss and 
 that "secret found!" message that you would get. This encouraged you to explore the levels. Another 
 old school feature that I would've SWORN would be included in Doom III.
  
  Third, no alt-fire for your weapons. The grenades should be an alt-fire to shotgun. Painkiller 
 did this and it enhanced that game tremendously and gave it a more compact user-friendly gameplay.
 
  
  Fourth, no flashlight mod or ability to use your flashlight simultaneous with the weapons. I know 
 that ID undoubtably did this on purpose to intensify the creepy, shadowy atmosphere of the game. 
 An alternative would be to use a Silent Hill-like flashlight but limit its battery life if you 
 want to maintain the dark, creepy feel.
  
  Fifth, NOT A LOT OF MONSTERS OUT THERE. This is where games like Painkiller and older ones like 
 Serious Sam have stolen the show. Those games are more like the original Doom than is Doom III. 
 There are hardly ever more than 2 or 3 monsters on screen at the same time.
  
  Sixth, simply put, the Artificial Intelligence SUCKS. There are 2 types of AI: Humanoid AI where 
 the enemy characters hide behind stuff a little but then pretty much just charge you and get killed. 
 The second type is the Zombie AI where they just stand there and wait to be killed. What really 
 bothers me is that the enemies don't seem to flinch when shot at point blank range with a shotgun 
 blast to the face. They just seem to run through your fire until enough of it brings them down.
 
  
  Seventh, and this is a bit of a cheap shot, but NO INNOVATION. There's no bullet-time, no two-handed 
 weapon usage, no alt-fire options, no super powers like quad damage, invisibility, no cryvision 
 as in FarCry, or that creepy vision in Chronicles of Riddick, no RPG-like features like powerups, 
 permanent health/armor upgrades. The game does not stray from the beaten FPS path even once in 
 its 15hr+ life. What you are doing in the first 20 minutes of the game is what you're doing in 
 the last 20 minutes: Shooting AI-bereft enemy at close range with a variety of uninspired weapons.
 
  
  The bottom line is that I think ID tried to make Doom III old school but introduce a new polished 
 storyline and atmosphere that would make it rise above the typical, run-of-the-mill shooter. What 
 ended up happening is that ID focused so much on the story line (which borrows heavily on the original 
 Half-Life) that they left out many many old school features described above. Put another way, ID 
 focused on the wrong aspects of new FPS games and decided to keep the wrong classic elements of 
 past FPS games. 
  
  Now for the good and the reason I gave this an 8.5 and gave ID my money via Best Buy (despite initially 
 stealing from the newsgroups) : The game's graphics are unbelievable. The levels also sport a high 
 level of detail, moving machinery, clicking and beeping panels of computers that you can ACTUALLY 
 INTERACT WITH. 
  
  The enemies and NPCs you encounter are also spectacular. The game's atmosphere is also very well 
 put-together. If you like Resident Evil and/or Silent Hill for their freak-you-out creepy atmosphere's 
 then this game is for you. As I said earlier, Painkiller was the real sequel to the Doom series. 
 Doom III is more like a sequel to the Resident Evil series but in First Person perspective. There's 
 a paucity of enemies, a small degree of ammo conservation, etc. 
  
  But the game is SCARY AS S#$T. Don't play this game alone with the lights out ESPECIALLY if you 
 have 6.1 surround sound. Kids, ask your parents to take you to TJ Max early this school season 
 because you are going to need some new underwear.
  
  A message to the phreaks out there stealing this game, beating it, then complaining about it on 
 the NGs: Go buy this game you pathetic leeches. Its 50 bucks. Save up your paper-route money and 
 support these guys. By stealing you are ensuring that games will continue to get more watered-down 
 and less innovative in the future.
  
  My recommendation? Buy the game. Its definitely worth the sticker price. Unlike games like Chronicles 
 of Riddick and Splinter Cell II, this game won't take 4 hours to beat. So you will get your money's 
 worth.
  
  spiny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlascott
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 4, 2004 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Stability problems keep me from truly loving this game -- I have an Athlon Xp 300+ with 1GB ram and 
 a Radeon 9800 Pro. At the 'stock' settings, the game crashes about ever y 4 or 5 minutes. This 
 makes the game 'old school' from the standpoint that older games all used to be released with bugs. 
 But I didnt expect it from this polished a game. I should also mention that my machine is not oc'ed 
 at all, and that I am running ~under~ the auto-detected detail settings, and have tried all the 
 fixes on the Activision self-help site. I guess for $55 I cant expect a live person to help? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sndman71
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2004 5:22 pm PT
Review:  With Gamespot's poor review on such a powerful game. I'd like to throw a few comments down myself 
 about how wonderful a job ID Software did with this game. I don't know what people where expecting 
 when they saw doom 3. But it lives up to what it is worth.
  
  The game is intense beginning to end, close combat being one of the major roles for this. Close 
 combat is being looked at these days as a shameful thing to do. But In return there is a major, 
 I repeat MAJOR lack for this skill these days. Close combat FPS is by far the most challenging 
 of them all. As for "Bigger is better" weapons. It makes since to me, think about? If you where 
 stuck in a facility with demons, monsters, and spirits. Wouldn't you want some BFG action? I know 
 I would. As for grenades and explosive weapons. It makes since there effectiveness is taken away 
 because of the close combat. But games tend to use those weapons to much. In Farcry, explosive 
 weapons ruled the multiplayer, and ruled the single player. Leaving machine guns and pistols almost 
 useless unless you have nothing else.
  
  Is the game predictable? All games are predictable. I can predict any game. Doesn't mean I'm read 
 for it? Doom 3 has caught me off guard a couple of times because of the lack of light in the area. 
 If I can't see my target, why should I waste ammo? Thats the thing about lacking ammo, you don't 
 want to waste it in this game. That is what is so wonderful about this game, I feel like I'm playing 
 the first resident evil, and in my opinion one of the best "scary" games of all time. So when you 
 say that the "lack of ammo" in this game, and "how predictable" it is takes away from the game, 
 your wrong, dead wrong. It adds to the game, the game play therefore is harder, because you need 
 to know how to use certain weapons certain ways, like the shotgun, up-close, it does some MAJOR 
 dmg. But if a person is 3-4 bodies away it can lack in that department, so running up on something 
 and blasting it with a shotgun is a very effective way to save ammo, and can cause you to jump 
 at times if you miss your target.
  
  Also on top of that, I think the lack of character in this game, wish as not really know who you 
 are is a wonderful thing. Why you ask? Because arent you tired of knowing about your character, 
 it seems more original to concentrate on the story and learn about the people around the base instead 
 of centering on the character. Making it a more epic tale about the Mars base.
  
  I can barely believe the crappy review that was written about this game here. It's almost as if 
 Greg had it out for the game. Its a wonderful masterpiece, and the as you can tell I don't agree 
 with more then 90% of the review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 4, 2004 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, you've got to hand it to iD - the game looks great. And let's face it - that's really what 
 the hype was about this game. It looks fantastic, and the graphics are used to good effect to create 
 a frightening and thrilling world.
  
  It's too bad the gameplay mechanics were left behind in this overhaul.
  
  Virtually no story 
 or plot, no character development, find the key, find the ammo, find the health. This is a beautiful, 
 innovative game when it comes to the graphics, but when it comes to the gameplay, there is zero 
 innovation.
  
  That doesn't mean that Doom 3 isn't fun to play. But in the end, this beautiful shell of a game 
 is empty inside. It's not a terribly difficult game, and strangely enough (as some have noted) 
 the earlier levels are actually some of the more difficult ones, although some of that might simply 
 be due to getting used to the game.
  
  The original Doom was noted for its advance in graphics. So is Doom 3. Perhaps the real benefit 
 of Doom 3 is not the game itself, but the advance in the engine. The fact that at 640x480 in medium 
 detail that this game looked amazing is a sign of a new trend away from ever increasing screen 
 resolutions (which on high power systems already surpass HDTV resolutions) and toward higher quality 
 and more detail.
  
  Play the game. It is simple and fun and frightening. And gorgeous. I just hope someone takes this 
 beautiful engine and pours some innovative gameplay into it. That's what the FPS genre really needs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 4, 2004 2:15 pm PT
Review:  OK, Here's the deal. I have read through some of the reviews on this game and must say am a little 
 dissapointed. This game is fun, and exciting. I think we have all been looking forward to seeing 
 this atmosphere updated for a long time. That is exactly what we got. Take some time to walk around 
 and remember the old Doom. This is it 2004 style! Pure Greatness!
  The only thing I thought was a little weird was that the prices was higher than most games. I wonder 
 if this is going to set the trend for anything new coming out.
  Just sit back and enjoy it, for the reviewer hat hasn't found the grenades yet, Is your monitor 
 on? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDI
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 4, 2004 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is certainly an achievement in the realm of graphics, lighting, and sound engines, but it 
 doesn't really advance the first person shooter genre in any appreciable way. The entire game feels 
 like an extended technical demo for id Software's new engine rather than a brand new FPS. The graphics 
 are going to be covered to death elsewhere, so I won't address them except to say they're phenomenal. 
 Additionally, the sound engine itself is spectacular, giving an excellent ambient feel and great 
 positional audio, even with a pair of regular headphones.
  
  Unfortunately, this is largely wasted on a game that attempts to scare players by the overuse of 
 gore, references to the occult, and "surprises" rather than heart-pounding scare factor. Don't 
 get me wrong, the game is intense... for the first two hours. After that, you've seen nearly every 
 trick the game is going to throw at you to scare you. Most of the scares involve darkness, so you 
 can instantly assume you'll be ambushed the second the lights go out. Expect enemies in various 
 nooks and crannies and behind certain key doors. Lastly, you'll have a few pop up behind you when 
 you backtrack. Congratulations id, you've made a B-grade horror movie.
  
  The game play itself is rather bland and lackluster as well. I've seen people touting the game 
 as requiring skill where ammo is hard to come by. This couldn't be further from the truth. Any 
 skilled player who knows how to efficiently kill enemies and conserve ammo will be fine. And in 
 a pinch, just open up the ammo lockers judiciously littering the levels, protected only by an easily 
 obtained access code. These access codes generally appear in e-mails on the PDAs of fallen NPCs 
 you'll come across in your travels. This brings me to the next annoyance of the game: Doom 3 is 
 another bunch of "collect the key card to open the door, blast a few enemies, and look for more 
 keycards" game. It's 2004. Haven't we moved past this yet? Yes, the keycards are generally easy 
 to find and you don't have much downtime in between, but that isn't much of a consolation for what 
 largely amounts to linear game play.
  
  The various areas you'll enter are lavishly textured and are generally a sight to behold, provided 
 you don't mind the sight of blood. Yes, you can tell the level designers had a good time with this 
 one. I did find that level sections tended to be a bit on the small side with a moderate amount 
 of back- and side-tracking for keycards, ammo crates, or health packs. The enemies are largely 
 stupid, which is fine given the fact that theyre almost all mindless zombies. I did notice some 
 attempting to dive for cover or to hide to reload, but it wasnt anything spectacular. For the 
 most part, anyone with decent FPS skills will have no trouble with the AI except when trapped in 
 small quarters.
  
  For dealing with those monsters, youll want a good assortment of weapons, right? Doom 3s arsenal 
 islacking. You basically have the full suite of weapons from Doom  with no real modernization. 
 None of the weapons has a secondary fire mode. I guess Ive come to expect a secondary fire these 
 days as a way to expand the roles of my equipment. Finding that Doom 3 lacked one was more than 
 a bit disappointing. The models are all top notch and the weapons do a good amount of damage if 
 used in their proper roles. (No sniping with the shotgun, etc.) However, the sounds for the weapons 
 are horrid. The shotgun has a very metallic **** to it with no real feeling of power. In fact, 
 the only conventional weapon that feels even marginally powerful is the chain gun. Even the rocket 
 launcher suffers from a feeling of weakness. The plasma rifle itself is nice, though the sound 
 leaves much to be desired. Dont expect to be blown away by the weapons, even in multiplayer.
 
  
  As for multiplayer, its paltry at best. I can understand the desire to release multiplayer with 
 the game in an effort to broaden appeal or extend the life cycle of the game, but releasing something 
 that feels tacked on is often more damaging than omitting it entirely. Multiplayer consists of 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch, last man standing, tourney, and possibly capture the flag (I dont 
 recall offhand) . No real attempts at any sort of squad game play. Maybe things are improved by 
 a good map selection? No such luck. Expect half a dozen maps at most, some of which are small, 
 which is fine given the default four player limit on multiplayer. If you were planning on buying 
 Doom 3 for multiplayer, skip it and pick up something else.
  
  Ive been a bit tough on Doom 3 here, but I dont think its unwarranted. This year has seen a 
 ton of top notch first person shooters. Doom 3 might have most of them beaten in terms of graphics, 
 but it has a long way to go in terms of overall experience. Sure, youll get a few hours enjoyment 
 out of it, but dont expect the next big thing, a great story, or to be scared out of your wits. 
 I think Tycho and Gabe summed it up best when they said Doom 3s engine is great; I cant wait 
 for someone to make a game with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haaens
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 4, 2004 11:01 am PT
Review:  I'm not much a reviewer, I'm more of a rambler. So please accept my apology for this mess. 
  
  Well, I have finally started playing Doom 3. I have been gaming for over 25 years and know 
 a thing or two about gaming. I played the very first Doom when it was a mere shareware program. 
 I have seen all the changes in the gaming industry, from Pong and Atari to the next generation 
 PC games. With all that BS out of the way, I will say, Doom 3 is mind blowing. 
  
  I won't waste time on the things everyone has said before, graphics, sounds etc etc. I just want 
 too talk about the actual experience. I will say I have an Athlon 2600 Xp processor, one gig of 
 3200 ram, and a Geforce FX 5600 with 256 ram, and the game runs great. SOOOO... I totally believe 
 the system requirement hype was blown way out of proportion to spark an upgrade frenzy. Well it 
 worked. That kinda makes me a little upset with the situation, but I am a conspiracy theorist anyway, 
 so just ignore that. 
  
  OK... now for the meat. I am not a horror fan and am usually scared out of my mind with games like 
 this. And I was, I had too stop several times and say, this is just a game, its just a game. But 
 I loved it. Once I relaxed a little it started to sink in that this is a great game. 
  
  Alot of the reviews have said it has no story. I don't know where they are getting that??!!! Sure 
 it doesn't have a Far Cry depth story, but it has one, and I felt it was immersive as all heck. 
 Especially since I have a strange fear of undead and demons anyway, I soiled my britches more than 
 once!!
  
  More than anything and especially more than Doom 3 itself, I am excited to see the places this 
 engine will take us. I'm not talking about Quake 4 either, I'm talking about all the companies 
 who will license the engine and make great games. That will be the real legacy of Doom 3, all the 
 ground breaking and next generation games that come as a result of it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltraTron
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2004 7:48 am PT
Review:  Before I begin the review, I would like to share my hardware specs and how I configured the video 
 settings.
  
  AMD 2400+ oc'ed to 2.13Ghz
  Asus A7N8X - Deluxe (BIOS 1007, Nforce Unified Driver 4.27)
  1GB PC2700DDRR
  Hercules 3D Prophet 
 9700 Pro (Catalyst 4.9 Beta)
  Samsung Syncmaster 191T 19" Monitor
  
  Although I was keen to begin playing the game, I was determined to get the best trade off with 
 visual quality and performance before settling down to play the game.
  
  I loaded fraps and began experimenting. Initially, I was able to run the game at high settings,1024x768 
 and no aa/af. I got some interpolation as was expected. I had heard of ATI's releasing of 4.9 to 
 eke out some performance for Doom 3. I installed them and found I received a BIG performance increase. 
 I am now running the game at my monitors optimal resolution of 1280x1024. Game settings are high 
 with no aa/af. The game runs very well albeit a notable chug in heavy fights but nevertheless, 
 quite playable.
  
  I admit, I bought into the hype machine a long time ago. My expectations for the game were very 
 high and wished that I won't be disappointed when I finally get the game in my hands. In this review, 
 I shall try to be objective and explain my position on the games strengths.
  
  First of all, this game is scary. The whole atmosphere sucks you in and doesn't let go. I had to 
 take several time outs during the course of the game as my nerves just couldn't take it.
  
  Graphically, the game sets a new standard in the gaming industry. I truly felt I was immersed in 
 an interactive movie and found the visuals amazing. What really makes it even more realistic looking 
 is that flashlight you have to use. It just gives it a realism quality that is beyond anything 
 else I've seen in a video game. If there is one thing I don't like about the graphics, it's the 
 blockiness you see on objects/walls close up. It's unfortunate id decided to not polish up that 
 particular aspect but to be honest, it doesn't detract from the visuals as how often will you be 
 simply standing in one spot, facing a wall?
  
  Gameplay is sublime. I have heard several say it offers nothing new. Well, what do you want from 
 an fps? BF1942, Halo, MOHAA, Far Cry, Painkiller, et al, follow the same linear path of objectives, 
 weapon pick ups, shoot the enemy, etc etc I see nothing revolutionary amongst them but I take them 
 on their own merits and appreciate each games unique qualities.
  
  Doom 3 is linear and you are not giving the luxury of exploring as you would in some other games. 
 In most of the game, you are restricted to hallways, corridors and rooms that follow a set path. 
 It would have been nice if we had more windows, skylights that gave us a look at the outside world. 
 Perhaps that would have spoiled the tense atmosphere but it certainly does get cloying after a 
 time.
  
  The game does get repetitive as you are mostly finding access codes for lockers, doors, etc and 
 of course, the obligatory enemies to come out of nowhere. 
  
  Did I find this repetitiveness boring? Not at all. I knew what this game was going to be and expected 
 nothing more. The detour we see later was a welcome change and most enjoyable.
  
  The sound, overall, is the best I've heard in a game. It really sets the mood and keeps you on 
 the edge all the way to the end. If I had to criticize something about it, I would say I found 
 some of the weapon sounds a little weak.
  
  Multiplayer is a welcome addition to add longevity to the game after you have completed it. I think 
 id should have made it standard to have up to 16 players rather than just 4 but I expect the mod 
 community will no doubt fix that problem.
  
  I have to award this game a perfect 10. Certain aspects could have been improved but do you give 
 a lesser review or score on a Lamborghini if you find a paint chip or you thought the seats were 
 a little too soft? The whole more than makes up for some slight faults in its parts.
  
  Doom 3 is, without a doubt, the best FPS I have ever played.
  
  id software, once again, sets 
 a new standard in the FPS genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireTalon
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2004 7:01 am PT
Review:  I just got Doom 3 yesterday. Excuse me if I have any spelling or grammar errors in this as I have 
 not stopped shaking from playing the game last night (especially with the storm brewing outside) . 
 After I first installed it and started playing (I am working on the marine difficulty level which 
 is between recruit and veteran. Nightmare is not opened until you complete one of the other three 
 difficulties) , I was completely blown away at the visuals (heat blurring, cinematic integration, 
 shadows, etc.) . They were awesome. I did take a half hour figuring out what the best display settings 
 my pc could handle the game at (Ultra high quality 1024x768 btw :) ) . I took time to admire the 
 scenery before the real fighting began in the beginning and I was not disappointed. Lighting, awesome. 
 Physics model, excellent. Gib detail, awesome. Console/terminal interaction was done well. When 
 you come up to a terminal, you lower your weapon and navigate the screen with a pointer or finger 
 (much like windows) and select certain options (downloading data, opening doors, etc.) without 
 the game taking you to a separate screen for the terminal like in most other games. NPC interaction 
 is done similarly. So far in the game, there were literally no two NPCs that were alike and the 
 voice acting is excellent. BTW, if you guys decide to play Doom 3, in the beginning of the game; 
 before you go on and find the scientist; make sure you play the turkey punching arcade game in 
 the kitchen as you are heading toward Marine Control. I found this quite amusing :) . 
  When the time came for the fighting, I was equally, if not more so, impressed. Sneaking down the 
 dark corridors, at the edge of my seat in my room, I found myself picking my way cautiously through 
 each area. There were times that I needed to open the light in my room just so I would remember 
 what light was :) . As a marine, you get a flashlight. The fact that you couldn't have that out 
 and a gun at the same time made things interesting. Fortunately, you could use the flashlight as 
 a blunt melee weapon, but this is like using a toothpick against a grizzly bear. They placed enemies 
 well and came out at you from where you would least expect. I found myself a few times backing 
 up (in response to a fireball throwing imp coming down fast on me) against something that wasn't 
 there awhile ago. All this in the dark too. Speaking of which, zombified marines and workers jump 
 out at you from the shadows sometimes too and that makes this game a real heart beater. There would 
 be times in which you would see a dark area of a room and when you shine a flashlight in that area 
 there would be nothing. And then there are times when you shine it, and it would reveal a zombified 
 worker going for your head. Yikes! In these cases my answer would be the shotgun. Your shotgun 
 is your friend (especially in tight quarters) . The pistol is decent too and packs more of a punch 
 than in the original doom. But the shotgun is much more effective in close and when you are in 
 tight spaces/corridors. If you ever did get close to an imp or zombified marine/worker and they 
 lash out and hit you, your vision blurs and you start swinging from side to side trying to straighten 
 out your vision and because of this it makes aiming a little more difficult :) . I've also noticed 
 that you can shoot in between an enemy's legs and under it's arms to hit the creature behind it 
 and not touch the enemy in front of you (I've noticed this with the pistol and machine gun) . Nice 
 touch. They've also added grenades which pack a spectacular whallop (as well as cool visual effects) . 
 You can't have enough of these, as you guys will find out, because there are times that three or 
 more imps come after your behind. No chainsaw yet, but the game does hint of them as I go along, 
 so I'm expecting more bloody closeup melee in the near future. I did try out their multiplayer 
 a little when it was getting late and like they've said, it was put out there like an afterthought. 
 But it was fun coming out of the shadows on players and gibbing them with a shotgun :) . All in 
 all, an awesome and well made game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Notum
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 4, 2004 6:51 am PT
Review:  So we finally get a chance to play DOOM 3. But was it worth it? Can it really live up to the hype? 
 Can anything live up to hype like that?
  Weve all seen the movies and trailers and been amazed at how gorgeous it all looked, and the game 
 does not disappoint in that department. The graphics are just breathtaking. Spooky lightning, deep 
 shadows, extreme detail its all there. The monsters and zombies look absolutely stunning and 
 are very well animated. The first time you see one of them come crawling on the walls only to jump 
 at you with extraordinary agility well lets just say its pretty damn scary and very good looking.
 
  
  Story wise DOOM 3 feels pretty average. You play the role of a UAC (Union Aerospace Corporation) 
 Marine sent to one of the corporations research facilities on Mars. Once there, you are introduced 
 to the game in a manner which resembles Half-lifes opening sequence. This part feels rather good. 
 You have time to get to grips with the controls and the overall game mechanics, and have a look 
 around the complex a bit. I took my sweet time here, just looking around, something that my commanding 
 officer didnt take kindly to. The game features a lot of in game cut scenes that serve to move 
 the story forward or just set you up for an especially scary moment. Back to the story part, as 
 most of you know the main story revolves around an experiment on Mars that has gone terribly wrong 
 and opened up a gate to hell. You come in to the story shortly before this. Shortly after you arrive 
 in Mars you are tasked to find a researcher that has gone missing in the deeper parts of the complex. 
 Once you find him all hell breaks loose literally. You must now make your way through the ruined 
 complex, picking up orders and killing monsters as you go. On your way you will find PDAs that 
 have been left by UAC employees. Once you pick them up, any data they contain is automatically 
 loaded into your own PDA. The data can be anything from a personal letter to security clearance 
 that let you enter a new area. The PDAs are a nice touch since they flesh out the story somewhat, 
 if you take the time to look through them. But overall the story feels like any other Sci-Fi game 
 story, not really bad, but not good either. Its just there. 
  
  What DOOM 3 is really about is killing, lots of killing. Monsters, zombies, demons... youll kill 
 it all on your way through the complex. The action is good but not extraordinary, and the weapons 
 feel nice and solid. Most of the weapons are the same as in the previous DOOM games, not much has 
 been added. 
  
  The audio effects are very well done. Youll be at the edge of you seat constantly just from listening 
 to the sounds. Battle chatter, moans, creaking and hissing pipes the game is full of ambient sounds 
 that really add to the atmosphere. This is not a game to be played without sound since youll miss 
 out on half the suspense. Turn up the base and watch your neighbours flee in terror or call the 
 police on you. 
  
  In short, DOOM 3 is a pretty average FPS with some very un-average graphics and sound.
  Its 
 pretty short and has questionable multiplayer support.
  
  In my very humble opinion, it does not live up to its hype. Its merely an average game, not the 
 revolutionary piece of software some thought it would be I think the game will sell well based 
 on its name and hype alone. Some sites and magazines will probably give it rave reviews just because 
 its DOOM 3 and not because it deserves it. 
  
  Buy it if you are bored, craving a new FPS, want to check out how well your new hardware handles 
 or if you just want to know what all the fuss is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdhprime
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2004 6:37 am PT
Review:  I have only gotten through the first few levels so far, but the game is very impressive. Graphically 
 and sound-wise, the game is superb. One bit of warning (which should go unsaid) ; if you are an 
 Nvidia user, updating to the latest Forceware driver (released during the last week in July I believe) 
 makes all the difference in the world as far as performance. One complaint is not that the game 
 is so dark, but the fact that you have to toggle between your flashlight and weapon constantly. 
 This is probably by design, but don't most modern weapons have the capability of having a light 
 attached to them. Oh well, it doesn't make for huge problems so far, it just a bit on the annoying 
 side. The combination of gameplay, graphics, sound and level design have so far made the game very 
 fun and very creepy. I am looking forward to moving on to the next levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azeon
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 4, 2004 6:04 am PT
Review:  First - Its not fair that since my tilt in not really FPS that the games score gets dinged. If 
 anything it should be higher since im not a slave to the genre and yet this game hooked me. I get 
 bored with most shooters since, well, most of the time its the same old stuff. And yes Doom 3 seems 
 to be the same old stuff - only its like seeing your highschool girlfriend at a reunion after she 
 has been to a world class plastic surgeon. The drool factor makes you forget that hmm Ive played 
 this before - and drool you will. Not just the graphics which yeah we all know about, but the sound!!! 
 The sound is incredible. MOre impressive to me than even the eye candy graphics...
  
  Oh - and YES it is scarey. This morning I had a few minutes to play before work - full daylight 
 lights on. Twenty minutes later my heart was racing and I was on the edge of the seat. The visuals, 
 audio and pacing build tension (at least through the first 3 levels) that I havent experienced 
 in a FPS in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thec1arity
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2004 1:46 am PT
Review:  After losing interest in Half-Life 2 because of the amount of lies and crap valve has thrown at 
 the gaming community, my interest in Doom III grew quickly. For some reason I've been craving a 
 good horror/sci-fi shooter and oh god does this game deliver. So what's Doom III all about? Atmostphere, 
 atmosphere and.... atmosphere! I can't count the amount of times I've tensed up and got chills. 
 The graphics are incredible and the game runs very well on my X800 Pro @ 1600x1200 with ultra detail 
 settings. I generally stay between 30-40fps and sometimes get up into the 50's. The sound makes 
 you want to cry and hind under a table. If you have any kind of surround sound via 5.1 or higher 
 or headphones, turn off the lights, turn up the sound, and get ready for an incredible gaming experience. 
 Sure, Doom III is nothing revolutionary but did you expect it to be outside of the graphics? I 
 expected Doom III to stay true to its Doom style gameplay and not only does it do just that, but 
 id software somehow found a way to improve upon it. In my opinion, Doom III respectfully earns 
 the title of a next-generation game. Now I can't wait for all the games that are going to come 
 out using this engine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshMan04
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2004 12:47 am PT
Review:  i have a very high comp i built and it can't get any more perfect for playing games. so far my 
 experience w/ the game is great, but have a feeling that average comps wouldn't be able to play 
 well at all because of so much eye candy. i think it's a lot of fun. it's scary, u get stuck in 
 a corridoor w/ no lights at all and u have to use ur weakest weapon, the flashlight, to fight very 
 freaky looking demos. i can't say anything else other then this game is great but really eats ur 
 resources. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david12345
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 4, 2004 12:32 am PT
Review:  I don't get it. They develop a great 3D game engine but make the game so dark you can't see anything! 
 You have to walk around with a flashlight to see the "spectacular" graphics. 2/3rds of the challenge 
 is switching back and forth between your weapon and your flashlight! (And yes, I did up the brightness 
 in the game and my monitor.)
  
  And no grenades? Halo has been out for years and Doom 3 with its state of the art engine doesn't 
 have grenades?
  
  This game just isn't really all that fun. It's basically monsters popping out of nowhere and you 
 shoot them. Yes, I know that's what a first-person-shooter is, but somewhere along the lines of 
 developing a graphical showcase they decided that you shouldn't be able to see anything without 
 your flashlight and forgot to put the fun in.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WulleBulle
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2004 12:29 am PT
Review:  Hi,
  first of all: Doom 3 hits the future.
  What do I want to say? It means that Doom 3 and its impressive graphics engine is made for the 
 future and computer capacities with  = 4 GHz, 2 Gb RAM, and graphics cards with  = 512 Mb of RAM.
 
  Therefore the environment of D3 conists of very claustrophobic rooms and hallways with less room 
 to move but lots of details in textures and objects.
  
  Example:
  I play D3 on my P4-2.4GHz (no HT) , 1 Gb RAM, 9800Pro, WXPP and a 60 Gb AT100 HDD on 1024x768/Ultra/4xAA/all 
 on.
  Except on very rare spots it runs smooth and that is what I love. The devs really know that the 
 gamers computers of today don't have the capacities to render huge outside levels, complex water 
 structures, especially if more than one opponent occours on the screen, gun fire effects and explosions 
 coming up and so on.
  
  Everyone that rated the game lower than 8 (all above is matter of taste) I want to say that all 
 ID games in the past came up with the mission to show new opportunities, using new technics and 
 set a new stage of hard- and software recommendations.
  
  So be patient: as announced RCTW will come up with D3 engine at the end of 2005 or Q1 of 2006. 
 Until then u all will have the muscles u need to lift up the graphics without any loss of quality 
 or speed.
  
  At this time I think ID did a very good job, showing us what's possible with 2.0 shaders and DX9.0b.
 
  
  Enjoy it
  Wulle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaelon
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 4, 2004 12:20 am PT
Review:  With all of the hype surrounding Doom3, it is only natural to realize that a game like this could 
 never meet up to the ridiculously high expectations. Even so, I approached looking at Doom3 in 
 a comparative context -- how does Doom3 compare with other First Person Shooters that have been 
 released recently? Such greats as Halo and Unreal Tournament 2004 spring to mind as the competitors, 
 and regrettably, while an impressive game in many aspects, Doom3 falls short against these stalwarts.
 
  
  THE GOOD
  
  The Engine behind Doom3 is absolutely amazing; the physics model for entities and the world in 
 which they inhabit is so realistic that it will draw you in unlike any other game that I have ever 
 seen. More enticing, however, are the graphics, which are extremely detailed and so realistic that 
 a new level of ambient development is presented in this game. One has to really hand it to id software 
 -- they created something wonderful with the Doom3 engine.
  
  THE BAD
  
  Unfortunately, the game that they created with the engine is only marginally better than mediocre. 
 The stale plotline of Doom3 is essentially a giant nod in the direction of Half-Life, rehashing 
 the original premise of the Doom series and plunging the player into a world of nightmarish gore 
 on a failed Mars installation. 
  
  THE UGLY
  
  Some basic conventions of First Person Shooters - such as an integrated flashlight or illumination 
 device that is battery-powered (a la "Halo") - are tossed in favor of less elegant innovations 
 in order to force the user to pay attention to the darkness. In fact, your greatest foe in Doom3 
 is the darkness itself - not any enemy, which seems relatively stupid by an AI that is plagued 
 by tactical shortcomings and relative weakness, even at the higher levels. 
  
  VERDICT
  
  Doom3 promises to revolutionize all games if only because of its amazing engine. Graphics engines 
 - like Unreal's and Quake's - have powered MMORPGs that have followed (such as Asheron's Call, 
 based partly upon the Unreal 2 Engine) , and have pushed the genre in exciting new directions. Such 
 is sure to be the case with the amazing graphical and physical model prompted by Doom3. But as 
 for a game on its own, ID should probably stick to developing engines and let creative designers 
 work on more enticing games. With a stale plotline, outdated FPS conventions, and relatively repetative 
 indoor environments, the single player and multiplayer Doom3 games don't live up to the full promise 
 of the engine. I look forward to seeing what game designers can do after they license the technology 
 behind Doom3. For now, it's a straight-forward, hack-and-slash horror FPS. And that's not terribly 
 bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spo562
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2004 12:06 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing when it is set to Ultra High Setting, but you better have a computer 
 with the horsepower to run it at that setting. It made cannon fodder out of my computer (2.0 GHZ 
 AMD, ATI 9800 Pro, 1GB 400 DDR, 100GB HD, SoundBlaster 5.1, Logitech Speakers Z640 5.1) . I guess 
 I'll have to upgrade sooner than I thought. The ambient sound effects really set the mood. I jumped 
 in my chair several times. I'm really glad it came to the PC first. Thank you ID and Activision. 
 I really hope ID considers making more Doom games in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabbuki
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2004 11:59 pm PT
Review:  You'd think I was exaggerating by giving the game a 10 rating. You would be wrong. I, even with 
 all my years of gaming experience, cannot find any problems with this game. I am dead serious.
 
  
  The graphics Where do I start? The graphics in this game are beyond comprehension. It seems that 
 the developers have created levels with graphics so deep and so detailed that not even the most 
 avid gamer can point out every graphical detail. In most games, you can point on the screen and 
 say oh there you see the bump mapping or ah look at the shadows over there, and pretty much 
 point out every graphical touch that the developers have made. In Doom 3, this is impossible. The 
 graphics seem infinitely detailed from the expressions on peoples faces to the bump mapping on 
 every single floor tile. Every surface is bump mapped beyond belief. Every texture is extremely 
 refined. The game is breathtaking. Id software spent around $6 million on game/graphics engines 
 alone, which is a statement in its own right. 
  The graphics engine does away with lightmaps, grayscales assigned to textures giving them varying 
 brightness depending on light exposure. The graphics engine calculates the brightness of surfaces 
 and shadows in real time. This feature allows for levels to be much smaller (lightmaps take up 
 space) . The engine calculates the light value of every single pixel on the screen every instant 
 (dynamic lighting) . It is the first graphics engine to fully do this (other engines with dynamic 
 lighting did not do this 100% of the time) . In addition, the graphics engine works heavily with 
 pixel shaders, promising extreme detail changes at the pixel level on surfaces. Everything in the 
 game is bumpmapped, down to the keys on a keyboard. In addition, since every surface is bump mapped 
 they achieve a realistic look without taxing the GPU with excessive polygon counts. One minor issue 
 I can see (which probably is nothing) is that most of the surfaces have a plastic feel to them. 
 These surfaces look kind of glossy smooth and are kind of round looking. I think its affected 
 by the way id decided to do their textures or how the engine handles specular lighting. The levels 
 are also very detailed and colorful.
  Most games with dynamic lighting have horrible areas of levels where shadows are insanely crisp 
 and rooms are overly dark. Youve probably seen this in games like Deus Ex: Invisible War or Thief 
 3. DX2 had some horrible parts where it seemed like light did not do as much lighting as you would 
 hope. For instance, a single lamp would usually light an entire room, but in the game it would 
 cast hard shadows on everything and leave dark patches everywhere. Doom 3s method of lighting 
 has this problem, but id does something that other game developers didnt do. They use this to 
 their advantage. The hard lighting actually HELPS the game experience. You get scared witless when 
 the lights flicker on and off, and your flashlight causes objects to cast real shadows. The cramped 
 up areas of maps with dark patches are all hiding places for zombies and monsters. The hard lighting, 
 though somewhat softened by the game engine, bring out the depth of monsters. The bump mapping 
 on every surface helps the lighting bring out details.
  
  Gameplay is unprecedented. All of the guns behave as you would think theyd behave. Guns recoil 
 realistically and shoot how you would expect them to. The AI in the game is quite good, though 
 there isnt much room for them to show their intelligence off. Most of the time you see monsters, 
 theyre in small, tight rooms where they cant really do any noticeable maneuvering. However, monsters 
 will switch between ranged and melee attacks depending on your distance from them. So far the AI 
 hasnt glitched on me; I havent seen zombies walking into walls or monsters constantly bumping 
 into each other. Some of the AI on the imps allows them to climb around on walls to get to you, 
 which is very cool. Also, nearly every computer monitor you see can be interacted with. But Im 
 not talking about going up to it and pressing enter and activating a door. Im talking about 
 going up to the monitor and actually navigating icons and choosing options in the monitor in real 
 time. When you approach a monitor, your cursor becomes stuck on the monitor as if it was on a 
 2D field (the monitor) . You can move the cursor along the monitor and press icons and the such. 
 This makes the game extremely immersive, and this feature has never been seen in any games before. 
 
  
  The sound is the driving force behind this game. The sound in the game makes every level feel frantic 
 and life-threatening. Each monster has an utterly creepy roar or moan which sends shivers up your 
 spine. Marines scream and yell in agony as they are torn apart by zombies, and they transmit their 
 pleads for mercy over your com link. This only adds to the nonstop all-action full-on no-holds-barred 
 frightfest youre constantly being forced to live through. Every room has machinery or flickering 
 lights which emit their own sounds. All of the sounds in each room come together in a dark, immersive 
 meld which can be pretty freakin scary.
  
  VALUE? Don't get me started! I at first thought Half Life 2 would be the only game supporting the 
 mod community with open arms. I was wrong. Doom 3 ships with the game editor, and modders have 
 already taken up the challenge of creating their own games. I counted at least 20 mods in the works. 
 Id has made the engine as versatile as possible, and it can easily be modded through the tools 
 provided. I expect dozens of mods to come rolling in within the next months. You will never get 
 bored with this game because it is constantly being modded and enhanced. Id will eventually release 
 more SDK components for Doom 3 to keep the mod community busy. Doom 3 will probably be as modded 
 as Half Life 2 in the future. The $54.99 price tag is well worth it. Im serious. I simply cannot 
 put into words the quality of this game. John Carmack is our the gaming industrys Einstein. Genius. 
 Pure genius. Doom 3 is a grand achievement in computer gaming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_dracula
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 3, 2004 11:59 pm PT
Review:  I *really* wanted to love this game and I gave it an honest shot, but For those about to shell 
 out half a bill for this thing - hold off! Get the demo when it comes out and buy it later when 
 it drops in price.
  
  The graphics are excellent and certainly the best I've seen, but the game play, while engaging, 
 is a bit repetitive and you'll get bored of the hallway run-and-gun monster mash soon enough. The 
 blood and death animations are also pretty much flawless, but the whole thing lacks the spit shine 
 evident in Far Cry, Half-Life and most of the WWII shooters. After squeezing down hallway after 
 hallway after factory corridor, it all kind of looks the same - gorgeous - but the same.
  
  So I figured, well this thing will rock once I get it up on the multiplayer arena. Ouch. big mistake. 
 this is probably the worst attempt at multiplayer on an otherwise beautifully detailed game since 
 the original Unreal. The lag is unbearable and the whole thing seems clunky.
  
  I'm still waiting for HL2/Counterstrike to feed my next-gen FPS needs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadeZ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 3, 2004 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Wow I thought this game would really kick ass, but sadly it doesn't. The beginning was pretty scary 
 and was fun. eg Resident Evil. As I played more and more I realized this is stupid, I've got to 
 find key access codes? Lame.... No story either... Yea so the graphics are great, so what. If there 
 isn't a story the game just can't be that great, which it isn't. Multiplayer? Hah! Mostly 4 players, 
 I feel like I'm back in the Nineties! Gimme a break Unreal2004 supports 32 players! Acutually this 
 looks like its gonna be a return to EBGames, can you belive it? Hell with it I'm gonna play something 
 else, this is just boring. RETURN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brundlefly76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 3, 2004 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are first-rate, but I cant help to think that the gameplay actually suffers because of 
 it. The gamespaces are clausterphobic and sickeningly redundant, if not detailed beyond belief. 
 I suspect this is because the sick graphics engine would be unusable if the rooms were any bigger. 
 The rampant darkness and inability to use a flashlight and weapon simultaneously is way more frustrating 
 then scary after a very short time playing. 
  
  The original Doom was *far* more interesting to explore.
  
  I would really like to *see* these 
 well rendered enemies Im shooting, half the time I am shooting into a black void and relying on 
 a red aiming recticle to tell me Im hitting something.
  
  As for gameplay - someone needs to stick a fork in it.
  This style of gameplay doesnt even have 
 retro appeal its so old.
  
  I'm sure id could make a kickass Tetris too but at some point we have been there too many times 
 before.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylsake
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2004 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics, reat scares, simple interactions: I'm not done yet, but I do hope there is more 
 too it than shooting at pretty monsters jumping at me if this game does last the reported 30 hours.
 
  
  So far, though, the graphics alone are enough for anyone who dropped the cash on a high end graphics 
 system to see what that system can do. Im playing on a year old average system with a stock card, 
 and the game still looks really good and is not jittery.
  
  I'm jittery. What this game lacks in original, or even up to par gameplay, it visually makes up 
 for. How many new ways can Imps jump out at you? I think ill look in this hole ! Gasp! A monster. 
 At this moment im writing this review because im letting my blood pressure relax before attempting 
 sleep. The creativity of art and scare tactics more than make up for the linear and repetitive 
 "follow the hallway and shoot" gameplay in valuing of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOTWETICE
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 3, 2004 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, never again and I mean never, will I buy a game based on so much hype! If anyone reading 
 this right now has not bought the game yet, do yourself a favor and see if you can play someone 
 else's copy to see if this game is really for you.
  
  $55 buys a lot of game rentals, like over 2 months worth with a Blockbuster game pass, and I'll 
 think about that every time I'm about ready to shell out so much for a game that turns out to be 
 everything yet nothing at the same time. What do I mean by this?
  
  I mean the graphics are great, but if I want art I can continue to collect Lassen paintings instead, 
 at least they go up in value. To get straight to the point, the game is mundane at best and how 
 much blood and gore can you look at before you become so numb to it that you just blank it all 
 out anyway?
  
  The games closed-in environments are obviously designed because of the lack of technology to do 
 anything more creative than keeping players in closed quarters. So if you don't mind doing mindless 
 repetitive tasks over and over with lots of eye candy to help pass the time, I guess this game 
 might be a 5 at best, very average. But that's not what a great game should be about, especially 
 at $55 a pop. In my opinion, this game would be overpriced at $25 because it was such an under-performing 
 disappointment, especially because of the over-hyped selling campaign.
  
  A great game should be about incredible game play, all the while being truly innovative regarding 
 the interaction of the player. More and more we're beginning to see these over-hyped games that 
 turn out to be nothing more than a  
 deal, because in the end, graphics are only so playable.
  
  If I can save even one person the $55 I paid for this game, writing this review is worthwhile to 
 me. So before you rush out to grab Doom 3, I highly recommend you find a friend who's already bought 
 it and see if you can take it for a test drive.... you might just find yourself wanting to save 
 your money for a much better game. 
  
  The packaging should say "Doom 3, The Game That Has Everything Yet Nothing at the Same Time". 
 
  
  The bottom line is, even if the game was given to me free as a gift, it would still be extremely 
 hard to make myself sit through the games repetitive tasks trying to convince myself Im playing 
 anything other than a clearly mediocre game. What an incredible disappointment and the name says 
 it all, its Doomed with a capital D 
  
  You may have been doomed once, or even doomed twice, but hopefully there's still time to save yourself 
 from the mind-numbing state of being doomed thrice.
  
  Hot Wet Ice
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyro
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2004 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 is the best game I have ever played! Sure the graphics look nice and the sound is great 
 but there is more to this game then that. This game will scare you sh*tless! With atmosphere and 
 surprizes around every corner Doom 3 will make you want to scream like a little girl!
  
  The quality of this game is insane, there is detail every place you look, sound effects that send 
 chills down your spine, and monsters that will give you nightmares for months. This game is worth 
 every cent.
  
  By the way this game is better then what the previews say and the trailers show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msgrover
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 3, 2004 7:07 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great, but I think its that anticipation of something that finds many of us being 
 let down when we actually see it. If the game had come out when the alpha version was leaked, I 
 think at that time it would have been ahead of its time. With some of the games coming out today, 
 you are hard pressed to find one that is way ahead of the pack and I guess that is what I was expecting. 
 I was really more impress with Far Cry and my all time favorite Call of Duty. Say what you will, 
 Doom III is a good game and might even be a great game in time, it just didn't cut it for me... I 
 have gone through 4 or 5 levels and I am getting bored... sorry but that is the way I feel ..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_mccol
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 3, 2004 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game looks good. It reminds me of back when the first 3D mark came out and I watched the 
 nature scene and the shoot out in the hall. But, like those tech demos this game gets old fast. 
 There are some few, granted jumpy, moments in Doom3; however, it fails to keep me on my seat like 
 many other great games have. The levels begin to feel cramped and although they have some incredible 
 effects and scary lighting they still seem to have a poor basic design. Despite this there are 
 extra pieces of eye candy every where and with some very disturbing and gorgeous monsters to kill 
 along the way. But when all is said and done, this game gets very old very fast. It plays as a 
 run and gun style but lacks that special appeal that made painkiller so fun. It has some well scripted 
 scenes but after a while you begin to predict and expect many of the so called BIG SCARES. This 
 game to me has little to no multiplayer greatness. The engine seems very inefficient and even on 
 my 3.2g p4 with a 9800xt it becomes very laggy and just plain annoying to play in multiplayer. 
 When I compare this game to such gems as Farcry where they managed to put incredible graphics and 
 technology into a great game and fun multiplayer, I see doom3 as a failure. It becomes very boring 
 and repetitive and will have little long term value. This game will no doubtly sell very well and 
 probably get rave reviews just because its the sequal to doom. But what we have here is a great 
 looking game that has a few nice moments, but is not worth your $55. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pos3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 3, 2004 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Scary, fun, thrilling with some Godiva type eye candy. The game kicks it just plain simple. I jump 
 alot and when a room is dark and filled with zombies, my hart pumps dramaticly. Also, with another 
 person in the room, it makes it twice as scary because they might yelp and jump also....... OK 
 ID, YOU PROVED YOUR POINT, YOUR GAME ROCKS! NOW PUT DOWN THE KEYBOARD, AND SLOWLY BACK AWAY FROM 
 THE COMPUTER AND EXIT THE BUILDING AND GO HOME. YOU DISERVE SOME REST. WHY AM I WRITING THIS REVIEW, 
 I SHOULD BE PLAYING DOOM  IS BEING WASTED!!!!!!!!!!!! Peace 
 Out, buy doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 3, 2004 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I was a big Doom fan when the game originally came out, and I have played all of the most recent 
 FPS games. I can never seem to get bored.
  
  But, it would make sense to get tired of these kind of games now. We have seen so many great FPS 
 games lately: Far Cry, Chronicles of Riddick, PSI-Ops... And many more coming up soon, F. E. A. R, 
 Half Life 2, S. T. A. L. K. E. R...
  
  WHY WOULD DOOM STAND OUT?
  
  First of all, this is Doom 3. The name alone is worth gold. And it is from iD Software, the company 
 with so many successful titles and hordes of fans. However, if you ask me they have not really 
 made a decent game since Doom and at most Quake. So, I was sceptical when first sitting down with 
 Doom 3.
  
  I already knew the game would be good graphics wise, so I had sky high expectations. And, the graphics 
 IS good, if not even great. The lighting and shadows are exceptionally cool, and the dark environment 
 really makes them stand out. Cool details like glass that actually distort the light passing through, 
 super realistic smoke from fireballs and heat blurring all contribute to an authentic feeling.
 
  
  The bump mapping of the models, and the lighting and shading is most outstanding though. But also 
 note that Doom 3 did not pioneer any of these techniques, they have been used in many other games. 
 
  
  For example, Chronicles of Riddick uses an engine that can easily be mistaken for Doom 3's if you 
 are not looking very closely (take into account the huge hardware difference between Xbox and the 
 PC though) .
  
  IN COLORS
  
  Despite the dark and gloomy atmosphere, I was happy to see a lot of colors in the game. Quake got 
 a lot of criticism because of it's boring palette og brown and blue, and the original Doom was 
 a bit dull at times too. But Doom 3 can light up as a colorful fireworks at times, someone at iD 
 really enjoyed showing off their new lightning capabilities.
  
  But, do not confuse this with joy and happy feelings. Doom 3 is designed to scare your senseless, 
 and you will see some pretty creepy things in there, like disassembled bodies hanging upside down 
 with their guts open, still alive and twitching... Also, the lights are so noticeable because you 
 most of the time crawl around in almost total darkness, so when the firefights break loose you 
 will go "whoa!".
  
  I played the game with the gamma settings set to max, and this is the way you want to play it too, 
 or you will stare into a black void most of the time... In general the game is too dark. My bet 
 is that the people at iD all made the game in a dark room with their curtains down to set the mood, 
 but forgot to adjust to a fully lit room when shipping the game. 
  
  This baby will not be playable with direct sunlight on your monitor, that's for sure... :)
  
 
  WHAT ABOUT THE GAMEPLAY?
  
  Yep, the graphics is great, no doubt about it. But that does not make a great game alone.
  
 
  The beginning of Doom 3 is slow, like an interactive story. Don't expect much action the first 
 30 minutes, and in fact I was almost put off after playing for one hour. It was simply not very 
 entertaining. But, luckily things improve after some time... The action changes pace, and you will 
 quickly find yourself in some serious battles.
  
  I was happy to note the game is action packed most of the time. You will normally find your way 
 easily, so no running in circles looking for some near invisible key under some hidden stairs. 
 Things are quite straight forward, and although you can dive into the stories told by PDAs you 
 pick up from time to time, there is no real need for that. You can just run around and kick some 
 monster ass.
  
  Listening to clues from voice records or reading email on the PDA can give you some codes needed 
 to find cool weapons and ammo though, and in general Doom 3 always encourages you to spend just 
 a little bit more time to explore the game by rewarding you with useful items to find.
  
  DUMBASS MONSTERS
  
  Now, for some criticism. The AI of the game is really, really bad. Maybe 
 even non existing. 
  
  And, no, I do not expect zombies to be smart. But, I do expect them to be able to hunt me down 
 and get me pinned down in some primal and disturbing way, like some animal chasing it's prey. But 
 even the most sly demon will just walk mindlessly into my spray of plasma projectiles, and know 
 less about hunting tactics than a retarded spider.
  
  The only reason why the demons pose any threat to you at all is because of the following facts:
 
  
  1. The levels are really dark. You cannot use your flashlight and gun at the same time (annoying) , 
 so the enemy gets the benefit from you simply not seeing them, and they can hide in the dark while 
 you spend all your ammo hoping to hit some vital bodyparts. They can always see you though, so 
 no need to try hide in the shadows.
  
  2. Monsters teleport in very close to you, and in fact a lot of times even on top of you, to challenge 
 your reaction time and ability to handle stress. Typically they will teleport in in front of you, 
 and some others behind you, continuously. You can forget about using tactics, you will never know 
 anything about what is about to happen before you have a fireball in your back, coming from a place 
 that was all empty when you checked 5 seconds ago, so you can never plan anything, just react as 
 fast as possible.
  
  3. The levels are very confined, and most of the time you feel like you are inside a submarine. 
 So, you have limited freedom of movement. Lots of times you will get stuck in the corner of a desk 
 or something else when trying to avoid getting hit. There's simply not enough space to be able 
 to maneuver out of the way.
  
  Because of this, the enemy still pose a challenge, despite their complete lack of proper killer 
 and survival instincts. In many ways, the game is similar to Painkiller, in the way it just spawns 
 out monsters continuously to kill you. Doom 3 has a much slower pace though, and much fewer monsters 
 on screen at any time.
  
  At first all this really annoyed me big time! Being unable to move out of the way of certain death 
 because I was trapped in some tiny closet, with an imp teleporting in ten cm behind my back was 
 seriously irritating. But, after some time, you get used to the playing style, and at least I started 
 to appreciate it. You are never put in an unfair position, and with the right use of weapons and 
 quick reactions you will do fine.
  
  THE WEAPONS
  
  All the good ol' Doom weapons are back, including the Chainsaw and the BFG. I missed the double 
 barreled shotgun though, but we got a nice soulcube instead. It can be used to kill a monster instantly 
 while giving you it's health. A very powerful weapon, so naturally it can only be used sparsely. 
 After charging it with the souls of monsters your kill, to be exact.
  
  All the weapons works great, and are as before neatly balanced. You will need to master all the 
 weapons to succeed. The only weapon I found quite useless was the grenades, also a newcomer in 
 Doom 3. Theoretically they would be very useful, but for some reason the physics engine handle 
 them in a terrible way. You can never really predict where the grenade is going to end up, and 
 a lot of times they somehow managed to bounce back in front of my feet, even though I performed 
 a perfect throw.
  
  The physics engine is in general pretty poor compared to other recent games. Killing a demon makes 
 it spin around in a pretty unrealistic way. The physics is not a part of the gameplay - just eye 
 candy (poor one) . Only once I found a proper use for it, by pushing a small box around for me to 
 stand on, so I could reach some off-limit ammo.
  
  NOT MUCH NEW
  
  Doom 3 does have a bit of that retro feel. The graphics is great, however the gameplay itself does 
 not introduce anything new, and does not even include what others already introduced. You can not 
 drive vehicles around. You can not go outside (well, only for a very short time, and a very small 
 outside that feels more like a room) . You can not use mounted guns. You can not swim, fly or manipulate 
 objects in your surroundings.
  
  iD has learned a thing or two about telling a story though, and the atmosphere of the game is quite 
 intense at times. Seems like they got some professional writers to get the story together right, 
 and it works. iD got some criticism for their lame humor in Doom 3, but the joke are not really 
 a big part of the game, more like Easter eggs you can find if you like to dive into every detail, 
 and read everything you find laying around.
  
  IS IT SCARY?
  
  Maybe I am just not easily scared, but to me the game was not really scary at all. The teleporting 
 behind me all the time to say Boo! just became very predictable. Also, after some time you get 
 pretty powerful weapons, so you can pretty much kick all the ass you want.
  
  The most scary part was entering hell. Kudos for that big transition in the middle of the game, 
 it was in fact quite atmospheric, and in a sick way also very refreshing after getting used to 
 the Mars base environment for hours.
  
  Also, some of the monsters are really well done. My personal favorite is the Cocademon (the round, 
 flying demon that spits fireballs) , it looks awesome, however it is a bit too easy to take out 
 considering it's scary appearance. Also, the final boss is quite cool, standing tall as a big house 
 and looking like he means business...
  
  THE CONCLUSION
  
  At first I did not like Doom 3 much, especially because of the scripted AI and limited amount of 
 freedom. But after playing it for some time, I appreciated it more and more. The graphics is at 
 times spectacular, and the atmosphere is unique. The game is polished from top to toe visually.
 
  
  However, I must be honest and say I have played much better FPS games. Maybe not graphics wise, 
 but when it comes to gameplay, story and innovative new elements I can list several games that 
 impressed me more. The game quickly becomes a bit repretetive and predictable because of the lack 
 of a proper AI, but the atmosphere and strong visuals somehow manages to drag you back in.
  
  I am not sure about the replayability, but the game lasted me for about 14 hours on medium 
 difficulty setting. I have no plans on picking up the game again anytime soon.
  
  It is still a pretty good buy though, and if you are not jumping into it all worked up by the hype 
 surrounding the game, it is good value for money... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CSM55
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2004 1:54 pm PT
Review:  In what has got to be the most highly anticipated video game release in years, Doom 3 is finally 
 here. I'll spare you all the nitpicky whining of those who gave it a low score either because it's 
 too hard for them or they thought about the game SO MUCH that they built up a alternate game in 
 their head and when the real thing came out and didn't match their own expectations, they cried 
 about it. 
  
  Graphics-Well, I have a fast pc (new p4, 2.8ghz 1gb of ram) that I use mainly for video editing 
 and still have my old radeon 8500 card in there. The game looks GREAT!. I can see where it will 
 look better if I feel like shelling out the $ for a top card and frankly, it makes me want to. 
 The screenshots really do NOT do this game justice. This is the most immersible game I have ever 
 played aside from Far Cry (which was a masterpiece in itself)
  
  Sound-I play this game through headphones so I don't bother anyone with loud gunshots etc. Great 
 sound effects, demons have sounds that fit the character and doesn't seem out of place. The music 
 is VERY well done and really give you that feeling of dread as you progress through the game. Little 
 whispers of "help me!" and the maniacal laughing that happens during certain parts of the game 
 will freak you out to no end.
  
  Gameplay- One thing I haven't noticed on the reviews I've read so far is how "web-interactive" 
 this game is. For instance, I needed a code for a cabinet. I didn't have the code so I looked through 
 the pda emails and one of the emails looked suspicious. I exited the game and typed in the webaddress 
 and lo and behold, it was there WITH the code for the cabinet! I went back into the game and entered 
 the code and found a very nice suprise! The other aspect of the game I should mention is the "shock" 
 value of the game. Not in the sense of say "Howard Stern" shocking, but in the shock of having 
 a demon leaping out at you. There are quite a few times you will be so suprised that you will fumble 
 with your mouse wheel in terror trying to get it to choose a gun while a demon is coming down on 
 you and knocking you silly with fireballs. The flashlight is a great touch although you wonder 
 why your character is so inept that he can't hold a gun AND the flashlight together but it's all 
 in the scariness factor of the game.
  
  All in all, GREAT game and please do not pay attention to the losers who whine and cry about the 
 game being unoriginal etc. Sure it's a FPS, but it's one of the greatest, most immersible ever 
 made. Well worth the price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artiebuco
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 3, 2004 1:12 pm PT
Review:  First of all, graphics are fantastic. No question there. But what makes this a game and not a tech 
 demo? Not much. 90% of the game is chugging through the same square rooms and corridors and shooting 
 the same monsters that appear out of nowhere. Usually one will spawn directly behind you by script 
 to try to scare you as well. You can then develop a formula to advance until you see a spawn, then 
 turn around and kill the other monster first. The sound is good, although the positional audio 
 has fairly poor separation of channels. O
  verall, for $55, the game is a poor 
  value. It'll take you about 20 hours to complete, and the sheer repetition becomes monotonous 
 
  very quickly. Id could ha
  ve raised the bar, but didn't. I guess that'll be left up to Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john1912
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2004 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Well its been a long wait but its finally here. The graphics are outstanding to say the least. 
 Even in the lower quality settings the game can hold its own with everything else out there. Im 
 running the game on an alienware 2.6Ghz, with 768 megs ram, and was using a Gefore 4 ti 4200 with 
 64 megs ram.... For some reaason I could not use the higher quality settings with that card, only 
 the resiloution would take. My 9800 pro with 256 megs showed up today, and I can honestly say I 
 was able to turn up the settings to Ultra, and the game was very playable, smooth frame rates with 
 a couple of hicup here and there. So I think the specs for the game have been blown out of proportion
 
  
  Anyway, Doom is extremly well polished, the only grip I could find is with all the polish I felt 
 some of the animation was a little stiff, the atmosphere in the game is first rate, I love all 
 the background info on the UAC corp, and the little promotional videos. Its definatly not the run 
 and gun game of the past, which may take away some of the replay value, but if you loved Doom, 
 and are looking for a scary FPS with a good plot line and background Doom 3 will satify all your 
 need. Dont expect a Halo killer in this game though, while I would have to say it will not take 
 over Halo as the King of FPS, I really wouldnt even like to compare them, they are just too different 
 in stlye, Doom fells more your in a movie. Anyway go buy it! and dont worry too much about the 
 specs, Id hate to run it on anything less then a 2Ghz with 512megs and a 64meg Gefore 4 or equivilant, 
 but I doubt you'd be too dissapointed if you had too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: detr1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2004 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is really amazing. I've been waiting for three years now for this game and it finally 
 came out, and I can tell you it's definitely worth the wait, for anyone who has been waiting as 
 long as I have. 
  As for the graphics, they are very impressive, if your computer can run the game, I only have a 
 64MB and about to go out and buy a 128 because that's what will run the game smoothly. Detail in 
 the characters is what really impressed me. The Z-Sec Zombies have an amazing amount of detail 
 on their suits and helmets. Pinky has the detail right on his machinery part of his body. And Cherubs 
 are the enemies that are the most detailed to me. Even though they might be a little disturbing 
 to look at.
  Gameplay is just shy of perfect. The only thing I don't like about the gameplay is when an enemy 
 swipes you and it knocks your aim off because that can be challenging to get your cursor back on 
 the enemy when they're running full speed at you and throwing fireballs, just like Imps. Hellknights 
 do the same but they are much slower, so it's easier to get away from them. One thing to watch 
 out for, Z-Sec Zombies with shotguns, one point blank shot can take off 28 of your health, and 
 they show up in the second level.
  Sound is the best part of the game, second to graphics. You can hear the Z-Sec Zombies' radios 
 when they're in a room and that's how you can tell they are there. You can also hear enemies coming 
 up behind you because there is surround sound in the game, which really immerses you in the whole 
 experience. When a zombie comes up behind you and isn't making noise, you will be very scared and 
 it WILL make you jump the first time.
  The value isn't to good because the multiplayer always has lag and the single player mode is only 
 about 15 or 20 hours, which is actually pretty good for a FPS but still not that long of a quest. 
 Multiplayer only has a certain amount of maps, which is about 5 or 6, and only has 4 types of modes. 
 You also can only have up to 4 people in it, with the exception of some maps that have 1- players 
 in them.
  Overall, this game was definitely worth the wait and should be checked out by anyone even remotely 
 interested in the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice_radon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was supposed to be perfect, but guess what, it somewhat missed the mark. Alright, lets 
 get graphics out of the way, they are amazing in just about every possible way, but sometimes if 
 you look at the hands close, they are very jaggy. Otherwise, guns, demons, and environment looks 
 specaactular. 
  
  Sound is all what you expected too. If you have a 5.1 surround for your computer, you can hear 
 in say the rear left speaker if a demon is trying to sneak up on your 7'oclock. This is an amazing 
 feeling... at first. Guns sound very accurate.
  
  But here is the one and really only problem... story and gameplay is well... not all that great or 
 in depth. There is not much too it other than running and gunning. And once you get into the delta 
 lab section... well its kind of dull, and you are feeling "... so yeah... when is this going to end?". 
 But as you make your way to hell, you get that feeling of when you first started the game! More 
 action, a bit more story and whatnot, and sweet environments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxbat44
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 3, 2004 12:09 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is WOW!! This game is amazing. It has a level of realizm I just havn't seen in a 
 game before. The lighting the physics the sound it really sucks you in, and scares the crap out 
 of you. 
  
  I am on my second pair of uderware today. The only down side is that the mission objectives are 
 a little vague but I found that the fealing of being a little lost added to tention and made the 
 hellspawn that come at you from no where seem all the more terrifying. There is plenty of ammo 
 and health packs not too much of a challenge yet, but I am quite good at these games. I really 
 don't want to go to work now but oh well.
  
  Havn't tried the multiplayer yet I can't pull myself away from the storry yet. There is lots of 
 detail in the backstorry which is surprising for an Id game.
  
  Bottom line you must get this game.
  
  
  What you havn't bought it yet?
  
  Hey your still 
 reading arn't you? Go get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kastigador
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2004 10:18 am PT
Review:  Forewarning: If you want multiplayer, this game is not it. True to the original Doom, it's meant 
 to be an immersive single player game. I love multiplayer games, but you buy this with the understanding 
 that this is the kind of game it is. 
  
  Hype or no hype, Doom 3 is awesome. I am annoyed by some of the critics so far comparing it to 
 games such as Far Cry and Call of Duty. Far Cry is a completely different environment for a game. 
 It's like comparing apples to oranges. Sure, Doom 3 doesn't have rolling outdoor environments. 
 Than again, I'd rather not play that kind of game, I get bored. For some reason, I can't see running 
 around the surface of Mars with 3 miles of visibility as being that scary. You can't even compare 
 Call of Duty to Doom 3. It's the Quake 3 engine, come on! Graphics, sound, gameplay, and weapon 
 models are so much further along than any of those two games from a single player perspective. 
 
  
  Point is, drop the huge expectations for a second and just try this game out (wait for the demo 
 if need be) . I played a "pre-release version", but I'm heading to the store right now to drop the 
 money for the legal release. It's that good. :-o
  
  Only criticism I might have is the technical requirements. I understand building an advanced engine 
 means pushing the envelope, but it's frustrating having to play at medium detail with 2x AA 1024x768 
 with a 9800XT on a P4 2.8@3.06ghz. Still looks good though. From what I gather, people have been 
 saying it looks good on lower settings too. 
  
  Value takes a hit here because of the forewarned lack of multiplayer and the cost of upgrading 
 your system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockytliu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 3, 2004 8:36 am PT
Review:  ow, seems like everyone whos reviewed Doom 3 totally loves it Guess Ill be the first one to 
 disagree. Im running on a 2.8Ghz P4, Radeon 9800 Pro, and Im glad to say that Im able to get 
 decent frame rates with this aging system ^_^ 
  I think it may just be me, but I think over the last year or two, FPSs has come such a long way 
 in all aspects, Doom 3s standard vanilla flavored take on the FPS genre cant seem to satisfy 
 me anymore. Guess Ive been spoiled games like Call of Duty, and Far Cry. I know Doom 3 was a remake 
 of the original, and it does a great job of remaining faithful, but PC technology has come such 
 a long way, remaining faithful seem to be keeping the team from doing more with what todays technology 
 can do. With the majority of the game taking place in a space station filled with corridors turns 
 the game into an endless repetition of opening doors, finding keys, crawling through air ducts. 
 And with so little room to maneuver, I have not seen any intelligent AI, or because they are all 
 Zombies so they are not suppose to have any intelligence? Ive now played through several levels, 
 and havent found anything new and exciting (thats why I was able to turn the game off and write 
 this review) . The graphics and sound are great, with great lighting, shadows, and surround sound, 
 but the game play seem overly simple, with a minimal set of keys to set, and the story is almost 
 non-existent. Ill still go back and continue on with the game and hope things will improve as 
 I get further into it. But as of now, Im already looking forward to Half-Life 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neiltc13
Rating: 3.7
Date: Aug 3, 2004 8:25 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is an impressive looking game, but that's about your lot. Buying this game means you've 
 got an impressive spec PC, and if you're interested in multiplayer, a broadband connection. Said 
 multiplayer isn't actually that great compared to other titles in the same genre, it supports just 
 four players at a time, yet features large, spacious interior maps, meaning players are left seeking 
 rather than shooting most of the game.
  
  Single player is frightening, you can't argue against that. Not scary, just frightening, since 
 enemies have a great trend to jump out at the player. Once you find an enemy, you'll feel the combat 
 system leaves a lot to be desired, with most enemies not flinching when they are hit by bullets, 
 often leaving you dead if you're playing on a high difficulty setting.
  
  The game does however have good points, such as the very impressive (and demanding) graphics, which 
 are second to no other game in the genre. Also, the game features an innovative interactive system, 
 where the crosshair will change into a cursor on the approach of a computer or screen.
  
  Overall, you really should only buy this if you've got a top spec PC and are looking for a single 
 player experience which will scare you to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Collin_85
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 3, 2004 4:53 am PT
Review:  Well I've been playing it for just over 2 hours now. What a truly amazing game.. scary-wise, it's 
 okay.. not 'ARGHH!!' but you do get sudden shocks from the monsters sneaking up on you. The scariest 
 part so far for me was probaby when you first meet up with the engineer guy you're looking for.. 
 and then all hell breaks loose. At that point, havok erupts where the lights sudden go off or start 
 flashing in areas, and you start getting live radio broadcasts of other areas of the base.. and 
 it's mainly gunfire and shouts from marines saying stuff like 'Watch your back soldier!.. there's 
 too many of em'!.. and sometimes you hear them getting torn apart by their 'unknown' attackers.. 
 their dying shrieks etched into your mind as you try to find your way back to your commander. Simply 
 put, the atmosphere of this game really tends to draw you in. Overall the sound is pretty much 
 brilliant too, so if you have a good speaker setup with a decent sound card, you're in for a real 
 treat. 
  
  Graphically, the game is a masterpiece. I've been running it on High, 12*10, 4x AA.. and it looks 
 fantastic. Frame rate wise for me, it's pretty damn good too, with some areas giving a bit of a 
 slight lag but on average, there so far aren't many real noticable dips. I'm also amazed at how 
 smart and annoying some of the older monsters are now. On one particular area, I shot the Imp a 
 few times.. and just when it looked like it was about to die (well.. I shot it like 3 times in 
 the chest so it was bound to die with one more shot) , it ran off around the corner.. so I assume 
 that it realised that it wasn't the best idea to confront me with when I've got a big shotty, so 
 it tries to hide around the corner in an ambush attempt. 
  
  On a more unrelated note, I just wanted to express how excited I was when I first got my hand on 
 the shotgun. You won't be dissappointed. Similarly, the machine gun is pretty cool too. Oh yes, 
 that reminds me.. on the 'Normal' difficulty mode, you tend to somewhat find yourself conserving 
 ammo a bit.. which like System Shock 2, I find a good thing. It kinda emphasises your desperation 
 to survive.. and just highlights to you subconsciously how important your ammo is and what's gonna 
 happen should you run out. With that said, everytime I saw a place with a bit of ammo littered 
 on the ground, I got excited. Occasionally you encounter these ammunition storage places, like 
 in Far Cry.. and boy does that really get the blood pumping. 
  
  Surprisingly enough, I found the voice acting in this game pretty believable too. 
  
  In conclusion 
 SO FAR, I can't say I'm dissappointed by any means. The gameplay isn't revolutionary, but it sure 
 is FPS at it's best. Graphically, it's superb. Sound wise, it's also superb. The voice acting is 
 good, and for people who think game is totally plotless.. you couldn't be more wrong. For everyone 
 out there who haven't got the game yet who also upgraded for this game.. you won't regret it. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: debrislide
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2004 2:55 am PT
Review:  I have never had a game experience like the one provided by doom 3. It's simplicity and raw frightening 
 gameplay are second to none. It is what it is. And what it is amounts to a pure ID software gameplay 
 experience. They own the first person shooter. And DOOM 3 reminds us of this. The graphics are 
 unbelievable and my hardware is about a year old. Just means it'll be even better when I'm rockin 
 the latest and greatest INTEL and ATI have to offer. The story is linear but it's this way for 
 a purpose. It gives you a direction to run in. because, my God, you'll be doing alot of it... if 
 you want to stay alive. DOOM 3 kicks ass. I hope evryone who loves FPS gives this one a chance. 
 believe the hype. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
