-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dracula: The Resurrection
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/dracularesurrection/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 21, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.4, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 124 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Canal+ Multimedia
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jun 14, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dracula Resurrection is a somewhat interesting adventure only because it's quick, easy, and atmospheric. 
 

 At the end of Bram Stoker's Dracula, the evil count was destroyed, turned to dust after being exposed 
 to the rays of the setting sun. The hero of the book, Jonathan Harker, and his wife, Mina, were 
 reunited, as her ailment was lifted with the death of the first and most famous of all vampires. 
   

  Dracula Resurrection, a point-and-click adventure game from DreamCatcher Interactive, begins seven 
 years after the primary events of the book. Mina has begun acting strangely, and some force is 
 drawing her back to Transylvania. Harker follows his wife in hopes of saving her and finds that, 
 indeed, Dracula is undead and well. But exactly how he returns from being a few handfuls of dust 
 is never made clear. Perhaps the designers thought sunlight was an insufficient way to kill a vampire, 
 even though it's been a staple of the vampire mythos. Whatever the reason, Dracula's titular revival 
 is never explained or even discussed. He's just back, and the game begins from this shaky foundation. 
   

  Attempting to write a sequel to such a seminal horror novel is an understandably treacherous task, 
 and so it's probably for the best that Dracula Resurrection has such a thin story. Other than the 
 setup and the conclusion, there's very little in the way of narrative. As Harker, you must explore 
 two major areas - the town surrounding Dracula's castle and the castle itself. Exploration is done 
 from the first-person perspective typical to adventure games. You move from static point to static 
 point, and at each node you can look around and interact with people and objects.   

  In the town, your primary task is to find a way into the castle. In the castle itself, you must 
 rescue Mina and escape. Each area is filled with puzzles, but Dracula Resurrection is surprisingly 
 easy. It's not because the puzzles are logical but simply because every area is somewhat self-contained. 
 The game tells you quite clearly when you can use an inventory object within your environment, 
 and the objects you will use are often very close to where you'll need to use them. Simply clicking 
 every object in your inventory on every object in view will get you through the majority of the 
 puzzles in Dracula Resurrection. There's no way to die in the game, so there's no real punishment 
 for simply trying everything and anything. And if you're stuck, chances are you just haven't searched 
 the area thoroughly; plus, you won't have to move far to find the item you need.   

  There are only two puzzles that actually require any sort of deduction on your part, and as a result 
 the game often seems like a process of mindless trial and error. Many of the puzzles are repetitive; 
 most involve finding some way to unlock a door or passage. And this is easier than it sounds - 
 there is only a handful of objects that act as keys, and you'll use them over and over again. The 
 puzzles are both a curse and a blessing for Dracula Resurrection: They're illogical and repetitive, 
 but at least they're easy.   

  The problems with the puzzles and the story would make Dracula Resurrection a complete waste of 
 time if it weren't for one factor that almost tips the scales in the game's favor: the graphics. 
 The game looks stunning. The environments are truly creepy, from the shadowy interiors to the dark, 
 snowy roads. There's significant detail in each location, and there's a general sense of foreboding 
 that would be really scary if it weren't so apparent early in the game that nothing bad is going 
 to happen. Though the animations of moving from one location to the next are few and far between, 
 they're also great.   

  But the characters are even better. They're both realistic and stylized, and they're certainly 
 some of the best-looking rendered human characters ever to appear in a PC game. These characters 
 are featured in several exciting cutscenes, two of which are especially good. It's unfortunate 
 that the whole game can't carry the momentum of these sequences.   

  Unfortunately, the voices take away from the overall quality of the characters. The Transylvanians 
 don't speak like Eastern Europeans - instead, they speak with American or British accents. And 
 Jonathan Harker, the stalwart hero, has an unbecoming squeak of a voice. Only Dracula's voice is 
 passable, yet he makes only a brief appearance.   

  That's right: The count isn't in the game for any considerable amount of time. He simply makes 
 an appearance, sort of like Charlton Heston in Beneath the Planet of the Apes. But he isn't much 
 of an adversary, and Harker has more trouble with locked doors than with the Count himself. Early 
 in the game, Dracula tells his henchmen that he is off to London, thus leaving Harker to wait until 
 the sequel for a face-to-face showdown with the count.   

  Dracula Resurrection is somewhat interesting only because it's quick, easy, and atmospheric. It's 
 very short, so even novice adventure gamers won't have much trouble finishing it in a few sessions. 
 The designers have evidently planned to make a sequel, and hopefully that game will be a more concentrated 
 attempt to live up to the source material, or at least to the beautiful shell that decorates this 
 otherwise shallow game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bloodyrazor344
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  Game Name: Dracula Ressurection
  
  Platforms Available: PC, PSX
  
  Platform Played On: PC
  
  Concept/Storyline: Your girlfriend had been captured by Dracula. You 
 must make your way to the castle he resides in to save her life. Along the way you will face many 
 puzzles some easy and some hard but it will be all for the purpose of saving her.
  
  Graphics: They are actually pretty good considering this is A PC title from like 200o. So all in 
 all the Graphics get the job done. They do have some bad points but not to many. They also have some 
 beautiful moments that are just outstanding .They tend to catch you off gaurd with how great they 
 can look.
  
  Sound: You don't have much in the way of sound in this game. You might hear some screams ringing 
 out in the air or some birds chirping but not much else. You get the basic voice acting which really 
 isn't that great for this game but it gets the job done just like the graphics.
  
  Control: This is a point and click game completely so there really isn't muc in the way of controls. That 
 was A problem at first but when you get used to it and adjust it can make it easier to play really. So 
 that is the control scheme in a nutshell.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is really simple. You point and click your way around town. You pick up items 
 to you them on doors or lamps or walls. You find secret passages along the way even. But I don't 
 want to give away anything so I wont so anymore about the secret passages. Just don't expect to 
 spend more than a day on this game it can be rather short if you know what your doing. But if you 
 don't just refer to a walkthrough because the troubles you do have are basic and usually easier 
 than they look to solve.
  
  My Opinion: This game is fun. It can be stressful if you have no idea what you are doing or what 
 you are looking for but the game usually points that out for you ahead of time so it shouldn't 
 be much trouble.
  
  Final Score: 8.5/10
  
  Extra Notes: This game is like $9.99 at EBGames that is where I got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalmakgpo
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 4, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I love this kind of games: short but interesting. Maybe someone would say its to short, but it 
 isn't trust me! Beautiful graphic, cutsceens that you have never saw and story that will holds 
 you on your chair whole night - thats the best one game can give you.
  You all be very surprised with story: from beginning its kinda peaceful and linear, but as you 
 are going more further you'll see some great twists like old and "poor" little granny turning into 
 something youll never dream off.
  Sound, that is what you have to be aware off: sit tight and fasten your seat belts because when 
 you hear music and effects Dracula will be real. Trust me!!!
  So play it people! And think, think and think... This game need that!!!
  Enjoy and have fun!
 
  Thank to Gamespot for letting me write this!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
