-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dracula: Origin
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/draculaorigin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Atmospheric reimagination of Bram Stoker's classic novel.
 Extremely challenging puzzles.
 Solid (if more than a bit melodramatic) voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is too focused on pixel hunts.
 Awfully obtuse at times, especially the set-piece logic puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 443 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Frogwares
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jun 2, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spooky atmosphere and a great story save Dracula: Origin from being a formulaic pixel hunt. 

 
  Good storytelling never goes out of style. For proof, check out Dracula: Origin, a point-and-click 
 reimagination of Bram Stoker's classic novel from Frogwares that delivers a gothic tale as atmospheric 
 and chilling as a London fog. While you couldn't ask for a more done-to-death story, the treatment 
 of this legendary material is both respectful and innovative, with familiar characters and scenes 
 being mixed in with all-new escapades set across Europe and the Middle East. Too many pixel hunts 
 and logic puzzles that occasionally stray into "good luck solving this without a walkthrough" territory 
 cause a few problems, although these frustrations aren't enough to ruin a great Victorian spook 
 story.  

           Hmm, call it a crazy hunch, but this just might be Dracula's lair.      

  Dracula: 
 Origin keeps the bare bones of the Stoker novel, but adds to it by branching out in a few places 
 and changing the focus from drawing-room horror to something of a detective story. Vamp hunter 
 Van Helsing moves to center stage from his supporting role in the novel, as the dour professor 
 turns sleuth and ventures to London, Cairo, Vienna, and, of course, Transylvania on a one-man quest 
 to save poor Mina Murray and stop Dracula's plans to resurrect the dead. The story unfolds like 
 a mash-up of Stoker's Dracula, any number of Sherlock Holmes short stories, and the less weird 
 tales of HP Lovecraft's Cthulhu Mythos, with you playing vampire hunter, gumshoe, and intrepid 
 researcher.  

  The script doesn't borrow much from Stoker, although it is excellent in its own right as a modern 
 take on the old Victorian penny dreadfuls that influenced Dracula. Voice acting is generally impressive, 
 as long as you've got a taste for melodrama. Van Helsing in particular gets awfully worked up over 
 the slightest little thing, becoming so uptight over such minor annoyances as running into a locked 
 door that you'll frequently think that Dracula himself has just jumped out of the shadows.  

  Counterbalancing this fresh story is gameplay that feels like something out of a point-and-click 
 adventure made 20 years ago. As Van Helsing, you stroll from one scene to another, carefully scanning 
 the surroundings for anything that can be pocketed and later used to construct some sort of contraption 
 necessary for opening a door or unlocking a safe, for example. You gather and hoard all sorts of 
 items, such as meat hooks, mummy wrappings, and even a jar of flies. There generally isn't any 
 rhyme or reason to all of this scrap collecting, other than that you know you're playing an adventure 
 game, so you're going to need this junk at some point down the road. Van Helsing's entire philosophy 
 of vampire hunting is expressed in one line he repeats over and over: "This might be useful. I'm 
 taking it."  

  Pixel hunting is another issue. Most of the screens are shrouded in gloom as well as cluttered 
 with furniture and other background details, making it nearly impossible to pick out all of the 
 many objects that you need to collect without using the spacebar command to highlight them. Some 
 of the tinier items in the game are all but hidden in the scenery, which speaks well for the wonderfully 
 detailed backdrops like the Egyptian tomb and Dracula's castle in Transylvania, but not for the 
 game's playability. So you're left with the spacebar, and that seems like a cheat as it pretty 
 much spotlights exactly what you have to do in every location. Still, it's absolutely necessary 
 unless you want to tediously scroll over every single pixel in every single scene.  

           While Van Helsing's trip to Cairo might be a departure from Bram Stoker's novel, ancient 
 tombs and mummies are a great addition to any gothic horror tale.      

  A few of the set-piece logic puzzles are geared to cause similar frustration. Dracula: Origin is 
 loaded with braintwisters that range from obvious to maddeningly obtuse. Lack of proper instructions 
 is a big problem with many of them, as you're occasionally plopped in front of a plaque, a checkerboard, 
 or even a chemistry litmus test without any guidance as to what exactly you're supposed to be doing. 
 All you can do much of the time is blindly experiment with whatever you can move in the puzzle 
 in an attempt to figure out what it might be all about, and then take a crack at actually solving 
 it. Yet even though it seems like the puzzles would be better off if they came with FAQs, their 
 inventive design and sheer deviousness outweighs any irritation you might have over the lack of 
 instructions. Many could have served as the linchpins for a Sherlock Holmes mystery, and all are 
 perfectly suited to a quest about slaying a vampire. You move a pentagram to reveal eerie Latin 
 writing, decipher Egyptian hieroglyphs on a cursed tomb, and examine medieval carvings of demons 
 and sinners to open up a crypt. All could certainly be a little more intuitive, but they couldn't 
 be any more imaginative, or more appropriate for this storyline.  

  Creepy atmosphere and an imaginative take on a familiar tale elevate Dracula: Origin above its 
 shortcomings. A freer interpretation of the now decrepit point-and-click formula would have been 
 much appreciated, but this is still a very enjoyable, if deeply traditional, adventure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tnation
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2009 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Straight off the bat this was a pretty interesting game, immersive in a rich atmosphere with attention 
 to detail through sound, voices, scenery and models, all hallmarks of The Adventure Company. 
 
  
  The game provides a slew of challenging puzzles, and attention to detail is a must. It also provides 
 rich background through documents and dialogue which enriches the experience and supports the settings 
 and gameplay.
  
  Unfortunately, all the effort that went into the game, and all the potential it had was truthfully 
 not fully realised. The ending in particular was incredibly unsatisfying which felt like a punch 
 in the stomach after the effort you went through to get to it.
  The legend of Dracula is always a promising theme, and it was unfortunate not to be exposed to 
 more of it due to the shortness of the game, the only aspect particularly beefing up the gameplay 
 hours was if you ended up stuck on the harder puzzles for periods.
  
  Now for a further look into the technical aspects of the game. Graphically the settings look fantastic, 
 as mentioned before this attention to detail and realism is a hallmark of TAC, and this game is 
 no different, realistic environments, and highly detailed models combine with sincere voice acting 
 and appropriate sound affects.
  I encountered no glitches, problems or technical faults playing through it (rare these days!)
 
  
  So overall, Dracula: Origins is a short but immersive romp in good ol' Transylvania, if you're 
 a fan of the genre you might enjoy the change of environment, and to non-fans if you see it cheap, 
 give it a go, but don't go out of your way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jinn_
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  There is no substance in the game history. Lots of reading and not much information youd like 
 to read. 
  
  Gabriel Knight 3 for example, has a great history and very interesting puzzles. It is more of a 
 Vampire adventure game with intelligent puzzles. Thats not the case for Dracula Origin. The puzzles 
 are okay, but some arent very logical or fun. The game just goes on in a straight line until you 
 find another puzzle. 
  
  The history isnt very impressive and you dont really fell amazed or interested in going forward. 
 The game is very basic and you cant do much your own way. 
  
  The graphics are good but sometimes there are poor movie like history telling in a poor quality.
 
  
  The ending is impressive, as there is none! It is just a poor 10 seconds movie and credits. Even 
 Mario and Street Fighter had more elaborated endings in their time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_balo
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  Ok. So your on a mission to destroy some vampires by using some gray matter.
  First off - the puzzles. Some of them are great fun. And then there are the other ones... those 
 that are a tad too much. Seriously, the game makes you feel stupid sometimes.
  The story is nothing new. Come on. Anyone who has heard about Dracula can grasp the plot - immortal 
 dude; up to no good; stake through heart. Luckily the games not really long, I would even say that 
 it's just right. You finish it just as your starting to get bored.
  
  Like all "kleptomaniacs anonymous" aka puzzle games you'll be walking around picking up conveniently 
 placed stuff... and occasionally trying to make holy water with a wooden hammer and some garlic... 
 oh god I feel stupid.
  
  Now don't get me wrong. It actually is a good game. Yeah, OK, there are better ones out there, 
 but hey... this thing's not that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  When I saw gamespot giving a 7 to this game i tought it was gona be a good game, gamspot dont ussually 
 gives high rankings to adventures games so at least this must be a decent one.
  
  Soo well, the graaphics very good, not exelent but good, stoyline stright forward, some anoying 
 puzles, some more anoying pixel searches (long time since I remember doing sutch an anying pixel 
 search since Syberia) anb about the history...
  
  Some changes in the Dracula history, not so deep "origins" as I tought, I was specting something 
 "really new" and I almost find mayself in a stereotipical Dracula movie.
  
  Van hellsing have a couple of jokes hard to cath in his absolitelly polite language, sometimes 
 pretty anoying, but I guess it was to keep the "atmosphere" of the game.
  
  Well I can keep going with things like this but I just have to say that this game its like a mix 
 from Peter Cushing as Van Helsing (fron the old Dracula movies) Tom Cruise as Dracula and Coppola 
 "Draculas" background.
  
  I didnt like it not recomended, maybe you can spent some time with it when theres not so many 
 adventure games around, but guess this could be made better.
  
  And just a hint, in the end there seems to be a bug, and if you do or stop doing some things you 
 get half or the complete ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franko_3
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  It's nice to see the adventure genre making a come back, 2007 has been a fantastic year and 2008 
 seems to be also fantastic (Sam and Max season 2, Sherlock holmes vs Jack the ripper, still life 
 2...) . Dracula origin was one of the game I was looking foward for 2008.
  
  Gameplay: like every adventure game on earth, the game want you to solve a lot of puzzle and I 
 love that ^^. The story is a bit weak at the begin (after the cutscene) , but will quickly get your 
 attention if you give it the time ( Like an Agatha Christie book)
  
  Graphic: Unlike the 2 previous Frogware Sherlock Holmes game, the game return to the 3rd persons 
 for this game and this is a good move in my opinion. Unlike Sherlock Holmes: The awakened, the 
 graphic feel better, more detailled. You will sometime be surprised at how life-like some interiors 
 can look. The character are nicely detailled and the cutscene are fantastic. Animation is a bit 
 stiff though, but a galant effort was made in that area.
  
  Sound: The voice actors are nice. I want to give a A+++ to the person who voiced Van Helsing ( 
 I think it's the same person who also voice Sherlock Holmes) . He got a nice voice that bring a 
 geniously interesting identity to his character, I am happy he doesn't sound like an overexited 
 teen (Tunguska anyone?) The music, while in dire need of variety, is also very good and fit the 
 environment of the game.
  
  Value: Well the game pack an easy 20 hours of gameplay if you love to solve puzzle without using 
 a walkthrough. Maybe 10-15 hours with a walkthrough, but what the point really... You can get the 
 game for only 20$ on steam.
  
  A nice deal for you and your brain ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  I decided to play this game because I am a Castlevania fan, always have been since the old Nintendo 
 system, and decided to play this game. I didn't realize what I was getting myself into.
  
  Cons:
  Don't play it. I mean unless you love boring puzzled games, but hardcore puzzled games, 
 then you should not play this game otherwise. This game is packed with puzzles, and they are hard, 
 no kidding, there is no getting around them; the game is boring obviously, there is no interesting 
 story or plot; how can there be right?, well anyways I can say much because I stopped playing the 
 game half way, it was too much for me to handle. There is no running, there no weapons, there is 
 no excitement here, only puzzles, talking, walking around and of course, the glue that holds the 
 game together more puzzles!!!!
  PS: play it at your own waste of time. lol
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrsMiyagi
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I am in the minority of people who love to play puzzle games. I don't even mind the pixel hunt. 
 I pretty much knew what to expect out of this game, having played all of Frogwares' Sherlock Holmes 
 games. I really enjoyed the last Holmes game, Nemesis, and I was excited about the Gothic feel 
 of this game.
  
  The graphics, while far from the best, were definitely interesting. I appreciated some of the gorier, 
 gloomier scenes. It gave me a chill to walk into a room and find someone hanging from the ceiling. 
 But there was something far more horrifying than the dead bodies in this game... the voice acting. 
 WHY do people in Vienna and Transylvania all speak with a British accent??
  
  I was sorely disappointed by the puzzles in Dracula: Origin. I have seen the reviews that called 
 the puzzles in this game extremely challenging, but having played similar games, these puzzles 
 were ridiculously obvious. What a coincidence that someone gives you random objects "that make 
 great souvenirs" and you need the exact objects fifteen minutes later. If you're paying attention, 
 things are very obvious. If I didn't know what to do, I just checked my inventory for something 
 I had been carrying around for a while. 
  
  Finally, the story was mediocre. Certain elements didn't make sense at all. It's a liitle to convinient 
 that the friend you are visiting has a living room that happens to be connected to the university 
 library which JUST HAPPENS to be connected by secret passageway to the home of the monks you are 
 looking for. And guess what... there happens to be a key to that same library hidden in the very 
 room you are standing! 
  
  Overall, I felt like this game was a bit dumbed-down from the usual puzzle game. Puzzles were easy 
 to solve, characters gave obvious clues and over-stressed unlikely pieces of information. The story 
 was haphazardly strewn together, and the characters were boring and unintelligent. I'll give it 
 a 6 because I enjoy the genre, but I would not recommend it to anyone. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guzganu2006
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  It struck me as surprising to see there's a new vamp game that wasn't previously heavily advertised, 
 as this seems to be the custom lately. I admit, "Nosferatu: Wrath of the Malachi" wasn't that flashy 
 on the market either (at least where I live) , but it was a pleasent story nontheless. 
  So then, being a huge vampire fan, I was really anxious to see what can be new based on Dracula's 
 reputation. However, if you're more about "accuracy" in the terms of "Vampire the Masquarade", 
 you might find this heavily disappointing. True, crosses, garlic, holy water and garlic are major 
 symbols in the original story, but have lost their kick with the average gamer/reader/movie-goer 
 due to their lack of presence in the media. A traditionalist might find this encouraging, but this 
 is what made me lose most appetite from the intro cinematic. Perhaps it would be best if, leaving 
 the idle chatter aside I'd make a list of pros and cons:
  
  Good stuff: The acting is fairly good, though could have been better, the Egyptian-set dialogue 
 being especially well built. You get to be closer to the characters in the book by actually interacting 
 with them and of course even playing one. Even in minimum detail, the game still provides a visually 
 satisfying experience. Being involved first hand in puzzles gives you a more vivid experience. 
 Speaking of puzzles, these are quite entertaining and original (at least some of them) . Last but 
 not least, it's a vampire game, hehe.
  
  Bad stuff: First off, there's the story. This here can be a dangerously sharp double-edged blade, 
 as the innovation to the original can make or break the game. Some will apreciate it, others will 
 totally be repulsed by the major alterations. I mean, seriously, Egypt? Sure, the atmosphere and 
 story by themselves are good, even for a vampire game, but let's not mix Indiana Jones and Dracula. 
 Next thing you know, the dark lord will be headed for Tibet to learn kung-fu from Batman's teacher's. 
 Deffinitely not the best of moves. Apart from that, the story introduces the count far too early 
 and only briefly. You would think that a game bearing his name would at least have more cinematics 
 with him, now and then. It's "Dracula: Origin", not "Van Helsing: The Real Story". Also, the puzzles, 
 interesting as original as they are, tend to be quite frustrating at times, not to mention the 
 disproportionate ammount of time you spend opening doors. There are simply too many complex locks 
 in this game. Even knowing the combination to, say, the Turk's front door, it still takes too long 
 to open it. The man must be a nutcase doing this to himself every time he walks out the door. 
 
  
  Overall, if you like vampire games and you enjoyed games like Still Life, this is a good choice 
 for a rainy afternoon. Just don't expect to get the thrills you got out of games like "VtM: Redepmtion" 
 or "VtM: Bloodlines". Different ball-park, I know, but still... Egypt?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnyboy12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for $20 about a couple days ago without hearing any reviews about it or having 
 any acknowledgement up to that point, however I was just dying to play an adventure game, so I 
 knew I had to have it. I was in the mood for something scary, something that make me jump out of 
 my seat, but consisting of enough surprising/awesome events that would build up more and more anticipation 
 to play further. Although it definitely did not deliver in the scare department, this game did 
 contain some key elements that kept me solving my way to the end.
  
  I would first like to mention the game's beautiful graphics. You really couldn't ask for any better 
 with the settings on high and AA all the way up. The only effect I didn't particularly enjoy was 
 the rain effect seen at the end of the game, which fortunately was short-lived.
  
  The voiceovers in the game were also top notch on a side note. Van Helsing's voice was pretty cool, 
 but at a few points it sounded like he was faking his accent.
  
  The plot in this game I found very interesting. Without going into to much detail for the length 
 of this short review, As Professor Van Helsing, you embark on a journey to destroy the evil Count 
 Dracula and save the human race from utter destruction. It was very fun to watch how the story 
 unfolded and see what happened to the main character and the development of the main issue.
  
  The puzzles in this game were great. I can't believe how people said they were either too hard 
 or too easy. I mean sure, some of them really gave no insight to how to solve them in the beginning, 
 but with enough brains, you should be able to figure out what you're doing within a couple minutesDon't 
 be afraid to think. The only times I really had any trouble was when I failed to think of the objective 
 at hand, or was missing an object in my inventory. Although I must add finding some of the objects 
 in the game was tedious work. Although if I had any real trouble, the space bar feature highlights 
 all the items in the frame, showing where to find them.
  
  Overall, Dracula: Origin was an awesome game for any adventure game lover. It has beautiful graphics, 
 entertaining puzzles, and an interesting plot . Although not the scary type game I expected, it 
 was packed with many features leaving me wanting more even after completion of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 7, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Sad to say but the above statement is about as exciting as it gets... I officially have a genre 
 of gaming that I actually don't enjoy playingThe genre of "really boring puzzle game with really 
 bad repetitive voice acting." I would first like to take the time to thank my friend for ignoring 
 my warnings and spending actual money on this game. I owe you onenext copy of Superman or ET is 
 on me.
  
  If you claim that this game is "fun" or rate it above an eight, then either you are really really 
 really into Dracula, or you hate anything else to do with a game that involves anything other than 
 brain power. Don't get me wrong, I am all about the puzzles, and games like Tomb Raider kept me 
 thinking for hours of enjoyment. But playing the pixel game is just plain boring
  So here is my rendition of the gameWalk into a room, listen to some really bad voice acting, scan 
 your entire screen with your curser and look for tiny items, read pages of useless material with 
 a hidden code, walk around trying to remember where to use that code, and 1 hour later make the 
 statement "is that it?" 
  
  Gameplay - Were the puzzles hard? Some were, but all were about as much fun as a bad hangover. 
 Cant rate the restpoint and click is barely applicable here.
  
  Graphics  Ummm, what graphics? Maybe its just me, but I couldn't get the screen to go past 4:3 
 regardless of my settings. So basically it was a series of painted backdrops with the occasional 
 robotic motion of an NPC. Hey, but the load times were great! Guess it doesn't take long to load 
 an image.
  
  I wont continue to bash this game because just like midget pron, somebody will get into it, and 
 for that person this game is a must have. For me, I will stick to the old fashioned games that 
 shoot and kill people. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flover2006
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Just many Sherlock Holmes series form the creators this game has also its highs and downs but at 
 the end you will have no new feelings when you finish this one especially because you have to look 
 thousands of times to a walk through to beat the game. For those of you who enjoy solving insane 
 puzzles after weeks of thought I warn you this will lead to nothing more than opening a lock and 
 there will be no glamorous pretty demos too. the demos are outdated and very bad played and even 
 in most frightening scenes of this game which was intended to be frightening you will be angry 
 when you see ultra neutral reactions of Van Helsing when someone when try to kill him with a throwing 
 dagger like nothing happens at all... The story and in game graphics are the only positive aspects 
 of this game but i the end the game is so predictable without any twist and so badly laid when 
 they try to make room for a possible future story for the game. The final word about this game 
 is: this is not going to rock the world of adventure games nor it does add any new aspects to this 
 collection. This game is above average at its best so buy it if you are really crazy about adventure 
 games just like me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raziel2646
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I was going crazy when I first saw the "Dracula: Origin" adverts, but it's not a good and admirable 
 game. Frogwares is getting used to this "ruining good ideas", like what it did with Sherlock Holmes. 
 
  Dracula: Origin is not a good adventure game. It might be good and seem fine for some amateur adventure 
 players, but it has some serious problems everywhere. Graphical ones would definitely bother you 
 in the first few minutes of the game. The 2D part and backgrounds are good, but the 3D part really 
 sucks. The way Prof. Van Helsing acts and walks is really on my nerves. 
  Graphics is really great in comparison with the storyline. You don't understand how the game begins 
 and how it ends. I think there is no writer working in the Frogwares, because there was the same 
 problem with the Sherlock Holmes series. Lack of a good storyline is one of the other problems 
 that makes this game not even worth playing. 
  Music gets repetitive after a while, but it's just fine, working better that the other parts at 
 least.
  There are some good puzzles in this game, but they're a little illogical and I didn't enjoy solving 
 them. The only reason you might want to buy this game, is these little puzzles, and if it is so, 
 I suggest you play "Safe Cracker" or "Secrets of Alamut" and you'll know what a really good and 
 enjoyable puzzle is. 
  I've played a lot of adventure games, and I'm telling you THIS GAME IS NOT WORTH PLAYING! I just 
 don't want you to waste your money and time, and even if you really insist on buying this game, 
 at least wait until the prices get low! :D 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Witchunter_
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  It's 3 AM, and I have just come to the end of this game. I am amazed. Stunned. It's like I was 
 sitting by the computer for last 15 hours... And I get nowhere. Did nothing... What's going on? 
 Well, that's the question the next game from this series is going to answer, until then it will 
 be a mystery.
  
  Dracula: Origin was one of the better gaming experiences I've had in a long time. At least in an 
 adventure genre. The story is not so well developed as GameSpot states, it's rather short, but 
 solid. There could've been more branching, possibly several endings, but then there wouldn't be 
 place left for the successor. Game is pretty short, I have finished it in 15 hours, maybe less, 
 so I guess there's not much room for story developing.
  
  The graphics are brilliant, I am impressed by AGEIA physics and what it can do. Although the characters 
 are not using it much, it just comes when it is needed. It gives a pure pleasure watching how 3D 
 models blend with 2D renderings (which are also wonderful) .
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The sound is not top-class, but not boring too. The background music is well composed and it fits 
 the location where you currently are. Voice acting is a bit melodramatic, and I personally do not 
 prefer it that way. There's a lack of emotions, and the consecutive lines of text are not too well 
 mixed together. But the overall sound experience is rather good, and it does not affect the gameplay 
 in negative way. Also I have to mention that Mina has rather sexy voice, which of course gives 
 a plus to the voice-acting.
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The gameplay itself is similar to the other point-and-click games. You can click on various objects, 
 pick them up, use them, use an item on them or just look at them. The collecting of various objects 
 along the way to lord Dracula's castle is of great importance, and you will not be able to proceed 
 to next section if you haven't found out everything in the current one. That's a good thing, cause 
 you won't have to come someplace and realize you needed to pull that rope 15 screens behind you. 
 The objects you collect are rather strange and there is really no asking how you might have use 
 of a jar of flies or stuff like that but if you can pick up something, then you're surely need 
 it somewhere during the game. You can also mix the objects in your inventory and make the new ones 
 of them. Objects are sometimes blended with background, so they will be hard to find. There is 
 a solution though. You can use space bar to reveal all possible actions that you can do at that 
 time. Some call it cheating, but I wouldn't say that. I would say that playing the game with the 
 space bar would turn out much funnier in the end. Cause the main focus of the game is not really 
 on how patient you are to click every single pixel on each screen, but on the riddles you come 
 across. I recommend using the space bar, it will save you from a lot headache which is definitely 
 not necessary, you'll agree.
  So you progress from room to room, from city to city until you get to lord Dracula himself. 
 
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  The riddles are the most glorious thing in this game. I was impressed with them, how cleverly they 
 were made. You have to put all your brains into it, without pencil and paper you're doomed forever! 
 You will stuck at the moments, as the riddles are somewhat hard to solve, but the excitement you 
 encounter when you solve one - it's unmatchable. And don't get on the forums asking how to solve 
 this, how to solve that. I saw a lot of people posting the question at 3 PM, reading answer to 
 it 15 minutes later, and coming back in a half an hour posting another question. How stupid is 
 that?
  I have found only one riddle that is, well, I can clearly say, impossible to solve, the others 
 just need thinking So warm up your chair and be prepared for IQ testing that will push your brain 
 to the edges.
  Riddles: 10/10
  
  A great game, I would recommend it to everyone who likes thinking and enjoying good story, even 
 if it is a bit short. Great stuff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  we're trying hard not to be overly critical of this game. for starters we haven't finished the 
 game yet... we just couldn't reserve judgment long enough. also know that much of what we take 
 issue with in this game is purely that of the genre.
  
  look, the way we see it this adventure puzzle genre of games is pass. it's a fossil that marks 
 the evolutionary step between the text-based adventure game and the modern role play game. this 
 genre of gaming a one point represented the pinnacle of the gaming industry's capacity for fun, 
 save pong and pac man.
  
  we guess it's nostalgic for some... guess it delights people that are overwhelmed with satisfaction 
 finishing crossword puzzles and word searches in the sunday newspaper... but... we just don't see 
 the fun in it.
  
  thought the goth motif and story would help... so far... it's not doing anything for us.
  
 
  graphics are... alright... we suppose. the backdrops have to be accessible for that whole cursor 
 crawling point and click search deal that has somehow come to be confused with "adventure," but 
 they look nice. nice like... the best most interactive 3x5 glossy cardboard postcard you could 
 imagine. 
  
  the models aren't that pretty... but how pretty do they have to be for what you're doing? we especially 
 love how van helsing wears the exact same obligatory big black long flowing overcoat and suit everywhere, 
 including the sun bleached desert. way to blend in with the locals?
  
  the music plays over and over and never quite fits whatever it is you're doing. it seems a little 
 too lively for staring at walls looking for something to click on. the voice overs aren't that 
 much better... we don't blame the voice actors as much, the dialogue is going for that victorian 
 feel, but... it just doesn't seem right. maybe it is the voice actors fault? Might just have been 
 an editing problem. Sometimes it's disjointed and the emotions sort of flip between the lines. 
 Eh... if they had something worth saying it would be a problem.
  
  the puzzles... are not intuitive. we guess we just can't get over how they go about squeezing in 
 puzzles where there really is no reason for there to be a puzzle there. secret passages everywhere? 
 how does dracula find the time to get anything done when he has to do an elaborate dial flipping, 
 code collecting, key finding, lever pulling math/word problem just to get to his hello kitty diary. 
 some of the puzzles... ugh... more trouble than their worth. if you don't do everything exactly 
 right, if you don't follow the very specific absolutely linear path, you wait around indefinitely.
 
  
  "You can't get ye flask!"
  
  there's a cut scene with dracula and he laughs... the graphics shouldn't be that bad. his mouth 
 wasn't made to smile, so he laughs all fake like a sock puppet. maybe we're just spoiled with all 
 the good games with good graphics? these cut scenes would have looked pretty good in 1998... right 
 now... eh... they sort of look like twisted metal 3's cut scenes.
  
  we don't know what to say, this game isn't going to have any replay value at all. playing through 
 it once is already sort of a chore, can't imagine wanting to play through for a second time... 
 it'd be like a used coloring book by that point.
  
  the difficulty is difficult to assess. it's point and click and solving puzzles... but to get to 
 the puzzles you have to do a tedious dance of the cursor on every screen... and you better hope 
 to god you don't miss something as stupid looking as a veil, a stack of papers, or a spool of thread. 
 some of the puzzles would make macgyver go, "wtf do you think you're going to do with that?"
  
  don't know what sort of people like this style of gaming, but it's just not doing anything 
 for us... and by extension, this game specifically. vampires everywhere hang your heads in shame.
 
  
  we can't give the game a zero... as much as we'd want to. we'd like to give it a much worse rating 
 than we've given it already... guess it's a pity rating. they make these games, people must play 
 them. we don't like them... can't understand the appeal... but... yeah... we've got to assert some 
 benefit of the doubt on their behalf even if we totally don't agree there is anything fun about 
 playing through a 100% linear game that just has you... point and click... on postcards... 
  
  ugh...
  
  shame vampires, shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mb42375
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 9, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  The graphics are pretty good for the kind of game it is. It fits well with the story. The story 
 itself is great but I do get bored listening to all the dialog sometimes. The only real problem 
 I have with this game is how hard it is. Maybe I am just dumb I have never played a game like this 
 before except for sam and max but this game to me is very frustrating. From the very start I had 
 trouble. In the very first room at the map part it took me a while to figure that out of course 
 I skipped over the papers it had him read so I didn't even think to look at them till after about 
 30 minutes by then I was ready to throw it out the window. Anyways only get this if you like a 
 real hard brain challenge. This game will most definately piss you off at some point without a 
 guide helping you out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  I've been following this game since i heard about it months ago i always wanted a Dracula based 
 game so i went out and bought it, boy was this game a breath of fresh air!
  
  Graphics - it goes from very good to excellent, the amount of details and quality of the graphics 
 are almost faultless i was impressed, some textures here and there are a bit lower quality but 
 nothing major really, this game is proof that when developers want to do their job properly they 
 impress, i find the graphics here to be much more inspired and better than Crysis even because 
 it's a pleasure to look at.
  
  the game do not support Widescreen in any way and it won't support it because the backgrounds are 
 all rendered square so developers decided to cater for the masses, it's not a big deal at all, 
 the game keeps the 4:3 aspect on widescreen with small black bars on the left and right just like 
 movies. :)
  
  Sound - the music is good if somehow boring because the music is louder than the voices, lowering 
 the music volume made it much more pleasurable and it fits what you're doing perfectly, slow and 
 haunting when exploring - scary when needed be etc. 
  
  the voices are generally great but just as the gamespot review said there's a bit of over-acting, 
 you know like the guy is doing it more than required, it doesn't ruin anything it just feel different.
 
  
  Gameplay - typical point n click but with some of the best (and hardest) puzzles i encountered 
 yet and i loved it, infact sometimes the puzzles are so illogical they throw you off (good luck 
 with the one at the cemetery with the Wolf) lol the game is worth getting just for the puzzles 
 and worthy of the price alone, but in general exploring is nice and fun, you need to look carefully 
 because some items may be hidden quite well around, i like this too.
  
  Conclusion :
  
  this is an excellent game one of the best adventure games around and very similar to the Sherlock 
 Holmes ones but with more drammatic tones and creepy atmosphere.
  
  if there's 1 criticizm about this game that would be that you need to READ the letters, papers 
 etc that you find because they contain clues, normally i'd consider this a bad thing but somehow 
 in this game reading is also a good thing..... so you EXPLORE, you solve PUZZLES, and you READ in-between. 
 hehe
  
  i highly recommend this game, have a cup of tea, turn off the lights, wear your headphones and 
 be "sucked" into the world of DRACULA : Origin.
  
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redanal
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  This is the best adventure game I have played in last couple of years. You have to open your mind 
 and be very logical, you can't play it without pencil and paper, even without calculator... Very 
 exciting, but quite hard anyway. There is no shooting or killing, you need to discover everything. 
 It is quite slow. You are in the body of Van Helsing and your job is to find Dracula and research 
 vampires. There are many doors, tools, items. There are many documents and books and papers to 
 read. So you need to have a good memory and be logical. In the beggining it is not so hard, but 
 later you will see. The best parts are when you need to combine some keys or combinations to open 
 doors or tombs or something like that. This is must have pc game. Maybe it is not so much impressive 
 in graphics and sound, I would give 8/10 for graphics. But story line and gameplay is just impressive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  If your expecting this game to be remotely like Dracula Resurrection or Last Sanctuary then you 
 will be disappointed. 
  The above mentioned games had a more in depth worked out story line than this one. It was pieced 
 together in such a way that it made the game feel choppy rather than flowing smoothly from one 
 location to the next. 
  The main character you play Van Helsing has no personality whatsoever. Actually you feel no empathy 
 towards any characters in the game. I was wishing that some undead creature would pop up and put 
 Van Helsing out of his misery. And where was Dracula? I think I saw him a total of two times throughout 
 the whole game. 
  
  The only positives were the attention to detail the graphic artists put into the scenes and locations. 
 The sites were so beautifully rendered that I wished there were more places to explore. The puzzles 
 were also easy to figure out and thanks to an ingenious hint system all you need to do is press 
 space bar and any missed items or clues are pointed out to you. 
  
  With so much lore behind the Dracula legend I was expecting an immersive interesting game however 
 it was not meant to be. Perhaps the upcoming Dracula 3 will pump some life back into the Lord of 
 Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablotheruler
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  It's obvious that the adventure games no longer have the same addictness. Well, in this case, what 
 surprised me is that the story-line is completed by the difficulty of the puzzles. And the boring 
 part of all the adventure-games (finding objects on the screen, touching every possible pixel) 
 it's not a problem. Pressing Spacebar will help you alot, giving you the rest of the time to gather 
 mental clues for puzzls.
  The graphic is not so great per all, but i got used with the Adventure-Compan'y graphic motor, 
 so this is not a big deal.
  A small problem is that the first puzzle of the game is quite difficult. I think that is more difficult 
 that the one from the cemetery, and the user will not be able to diggest the controls of the game 
 before finding the first puzzle.
  My rating: 8.0, and this is a game worth playing. But i'm still waiting for a adventure-game that 
 will impress me more than Syberia. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
