-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dracula 3: Path of the Dragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/dracula3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The story is an interesting idea, even if it isn't successfully realized.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dreary and tedious puzzles.
 Offbeat storyline drops the gothic touches that make vampire tales so spooky.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 7.2, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 98 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Games
Developer: Kheops Studio
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Aug 21, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dracula 3: The Path of the Dragon is dreary and dated. 

  Dracula again? Vampire fatigue is a legitimate feeling that you might encounter when ripping open 
 the shrink-wrap of Dracula 3: The Path of the Dragon, given that it seems like Bram Stoker's infamous 
 creature of the night has already been the focus of a lot of adventure games. This latest one, 
 the third in a franchise that started nearly a decade ago with Dracula: Resurrection and Dracula: 
 The Last Sanctuary, doesn't bring much new to the table. Developer Kheops Studio sticks to the 
 ancient adventure-gaming formula that it has specialized in with previous releases such as Return 
 to Mysterious Island and Voyage, and spins a dull yarn in which you research the biggest bloodsucker 
 of them all in 1920s Transylvania. Busywork puzzles and stone-age visuals further drain the rest 
 of the creeps out of this supposedly scary saga, which unfolds more like an uninspired detective 
 story than an ominous encounter with a legendary monster.  

           No Dracula-inspired game would be complete without a spooky grave.      

  The plot 
 isn't what you would expect from a Dracula-inspired game, although you can't characterize that 
 as a good thing. For a change, you don't play Van Helsing or any of his descendants. Instead, you 
 take the role of Father Arno Moriani, a priest sent to Transylvania by his bosses at the Vatican 
 to investigate a recently deceased Romanian doctor who has been declared a candidate for canonization. 
 The good father soon finds out that the doctor held some odd views regarding a number of strange 
 deaths in the village, and he finds his assignment quickly changed from sainthood vetting to disproving 
 the existence of vampires. So you spend most of your time undertaking scientific research and questioning 
 professors, not tracking down Dracula and his pointy-toothed pals. More time is spent with test 
 tubes than with stakes, and you don't actually encounter any vampires until the very end of the 
 game.  

  Another novelty involves moving the setting from the stereotypical Victorian age to the 1920s, 
 when Romania was still reeling from the devastation caused by World War I. This doesn't make for 
 many differences when it comes to gameplay, although shifting the game into the 20th century does 
 allow for more-varied artwork involving semimodern touches such as telephones, trains, electric 
 lights, and chemistry equipment. However, the overall visual quality is fairly poor, despite good 
 use of shadows and fog effects to create a spooky mood. Most scenes are grainy, and character models 
 are afflicted with slow-motion movement tics that makes it seem like everybody you meet is underwater. 
 Voice samples often sound vaguely slurred in a rather similar fashion, lending a surreal vibe to 
 many conversations that actually enhances the eerie nature of your investigations.  

  Gameplay offers some similarly unwelcome surprises, at least after you get past all of the "Brand 
 X" stuff. Dracula 3 is dry, traditional, and stilted. Nevertheless, there is one big changeup here 
 in regard to puzzles. The designers chose to move away from cliched vampire plot devices and play 
 up a more modern "It's the 20th century -- there are no such things as vampires!" vibe that apparently 
 seeks to explain bloodsucker fear as mere peasant legend. This is a nice switcheroo from the standard 
 stake-the-fanged-guy credulity that usually accompanies any game about Dracula. But it's also pretty 
 disingenuous in that you know from the very beginning that Father Arno won't be discovering that 
 vampires are just make-believe after all. That would have been a cool surprise after all of the 
 buildup about Vlad Tepes, neck hematomas, and weird blood disorders, but it's hard to pull back 
 from supernatural explanations when you've got Dracula rising from his coffin on the cover of the 
 game. So the story eventually goes right where you see it heading from the beginning, despite the 
 lame attempts to fake you out.  

           Drawing blood in such an antiseptic fashion isn't what you expect in a game supposedly 
 about hunting down vampires.      

  Such an approach to the story also, ahem, bleeds a lot of the gothic-horror atmosphere out of the 
 game's gloomy rooms and foggy street scenes. Puzzles seem more often based on science than superstition. 
 At times, it feels like you're more of a Sherlock Holmes than a priest, with only the ability to 
 flip open a Bible to read inspirational quotes reminding you that this protagonist wears a collar 
 and a crucifix around his neck. You even walk step by boring step through scientific experiments 
 at a couple of points; for example, you're forced to wade through the amazingly tedious process 
 required to draw your own blood and then do tests for type and other issues with multiple blood 
 samples. It's all a bit much, especially when the procedures are so true to life that you actually 
 have to wash your hands a few times. Other types of set-piece logic puzzles are more appropriate 
 to a horror setting in that they involve broken artifacts, ancient tomes, drawing pentagrams, and 
 so forth. Yet even these brainteasers are cumbersome and time-consuming. Considering that these 
 puzzles generally aren't difficult to figure out, you're not solving mysteries as much as you are 
 tediously filling in the blanks until the game lets you proceed.  

  Adventure gamers with a taste for methodical puzzle-solving could appreciate Dracula 3: The Path 
 of the Dragon, whereas everybody else will be too busy stifling yawns to feel any chills running 
 down their spines. This is a vampire-inspired adventure by the numbers that holds few surprises 
 in its dry puzzles and dated presentation values.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Another Dracula game minus Dracula. The makers of Dracula: Resurrection and Dracula: The Last Sanctuary 
 should have stuck to their original formula which made those games at least entertaining. Dracula 
 3: Path of the Dragon is a disaster. It has an interesting concept but its filled with long drawn 
 out complicated puzzles and many many documents to read and collect. Also for a title to be named 
 Dracula you would think that he would be at least a main part of the story but alas he is nowhere 
 to be found until the very end. If a little time and effort where put into this game it could have 
 come out to be semi decent. Instead it was a waste of my time. I would suggest you pick up its 
 predecessors which can be found on a bargain rack both for $9.99. Don't waste your time on this 
 one unless you like reading boring documents and trying to figure out useless puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garythemessage
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  August 21, 2008. Yes, this what Gamepost shows as the release date for "Dracula 3 - Path of the 
 Dragon." I know, that was like 30 days ago, way back in the past. I guess it's too much to ask 
 for, to be able to run the game widescreen. I mean, really, there aren't but a handful of widescreen 
 monitors out there, right?
  
  This game looks foolish ran in a window. It takes up less than half of my monitor. It looks bad 
 in fullscreen. Everyone/everything is squat. And those are your only two options if you have a 
 widescreen monitor: a tiny window, or an ugly squat mess.
  
  I knew I was gonna lose the ability to play my older games when I bought the widescreen, but I 
 have to have the desktop space 'cause I work out of my home. Hello? This is not an old game. It's 
 brand new. It only has one resolution. That stinks. Who cares if it's any good or not. I ain't 
 gonna play it. I certainly ain't gonna buy it.
  
  [EDIT] I forgot to mention. I did play this game for a few hours, but I reached the part where 
 you have to "work" in the that lady's doctors lab. It was WAAAAY too tedious! I have a job and 
 work 40 hours. I'm not going to sit down and work on tedious puzzles like this. It's fine if a 
 puzzle is hard LOGICALLY, but to add a long, drawn out, monotonous process on top... it's too much.
 
  
  I actually did enjoy the story. I even got creeped a couple times. Maybe this game can be reworked 
 a little... I might look into it again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicu1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  For another Dracula games, it is different and unexpectedly good. Well documented, good puzzles, 
 different approach than Bram Stoker story. 
  The graphic is very good (not 3D, but panoramic pre-rendered view) , the story is rich and immersive, 
 the puzzles are not very difficult, but quite original. For the most difficult of the puzzles the 
 developers cared to place subtle hints. Also, the dialog/document logging system is very useful 
 to organize and review the big amount of information you receive during the game. I appreciated 
 the documentation effort and the scientific approach of the story. 
  It is not a children game, but one for a mature player, which even can learn few things from it, 
 and not just loose time with the same old Dracula story.
  As always, like for most of the good adventure games, the official score is absolutely ridiculous.
 
  Congratulations for the development team! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
