-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragonriders: Chronicles of Pern
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/dragonriderschroniclesofpern/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  5, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.9
Critic Score: 5.1, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 26 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Aug 12, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It takes the primary elements of the Pern novels and uses them to fashion a run-of-the-mill adventure 
 game that offers very little actual adventure and too many frustrating mechanical issues. 

 
  Anne McCaffrey's Pern novels would seem to be the perfect inspiration for a good game. The series 
 spans a dozen books featuring warriors who ride dragons and fight against a terrifying parasite 
 that falls from the sky. But Ubi Soft's Dragonriders: Chronicles of Pern is not a good game. It 
 takes the primary elements of the Pern novels and uses them to fashion a run-of-the-mill adventure 
 game that offers very little actual adventure and too many frustrating mechanical issues. And as 
 in many other disappointing adventure games, you are supposed to be a great hero, but you do little 
 more than perform menial tasks.           You'll spend the majority of your time talking to the 
 citizens and riders of Pern.    

  The basic societal structure of Pern provides the background for Dragonriders but not the substance. 
 You play as D'Kor, rider of a bronze dragon. The Dragonriders have a sort of caste system, based 
 on what color dragon you ride (they also have names like S'lon, F'ben, and V'hul, while nonriders 
 tend to have names like Jim, Tom, and Kevan) . The game does a poor job of giving any contextual 
 explanations for Pern's strange society, though there is a large library of information available 
 for players who don't have the necessary background to understand what people are talking about. 
 Still, those who haven't read the books will likely feel lost at times.   

  When Dragonriders begins, the Weyrwoman of Fort Weyr has died. This is apparently a bad thing. 
 D'Kor must help search for a replacement. There is some discord among the riders as to how the 
 next Weyrwoman should be selected, and this leads to treachery. There is also a plague afflicting 
 the people of Pern. Over the course of the game, you must investigate the source of the plague 
 (consistently described as a "virus," which seems pretty advanced for a society pitched in scientific 
 darkness) , seek out treachery in your ranks, and help find candidates for the new Weyrwoman.   
 

  It all sounds very epic, but it isn't. In reality, your tasks will be much less dignified. Here's 
 an example of one of Dragonriders' puzzles, which tend to be fancified by the fact that the game 
 calls them "quests." A miner asks you to find his pickax. You walk to the next screen, and his 
 pickax is propped up against some rocks. You grab it, and return it to him. Quest complete. You'll 
 also help find ingredients for a meal, capture bugs for a young girl's collection, find a lost 
 toy, and pull sheets off of statues. It's as if someone made a  Lord of the Rings  game in which 
 Frodo must search the four corners of Middle Earth for collectible bottlecaps. Or a game that has 
 Elric using Stormbringer to make fruit salad.   

  Dragonriders attempts to add some role-playing and action elements. For the former, you have a 
 few key character statistics that improve as you progress. These have little impact on how the 
 game plays and instead simply act as keys to open new quests. Certain characters won't talk to 
 you, and certain areas can't be accessed, until your reputation or knowledge is high enough. And 
 some quests can't be completed until your strength is high enough. Otherwise, the stats are meaningless. 
   

  The action sections of the game are bad. The simple combat system requires no skill -- you simply 
 hold down the space bar and bang the up arrow. Even when the combat is difficult, it isn't challenging. 
 The game also includes some jumping puzzles, but they aren't really puzzles because there is no 
 way to fail. These situations require nothing more than pressing the space bar when you see the 
 jump icon, which triggers a cinematic of D'Kor making the jump.   

  There are two somewhat difficult combat sections, but the rest are easy. This is fitting because 
 the rest of the game is incredibly simple. No skill or deductive thought is required. You basically 
 steer D'Kor around and press the space bar when the game tells you to. If you read everything and 
 pick up everything, you will finish the game. The game attempts to add some console RPG elements 
 such as hidden items and optional side quests, but they have no impact at all on the game. You're 
 given various options when conversing with characters, but the correct response is always so apparent 
 that the choices aren't meaningful.   

  The voices of the characters are mostly decent, though occasionally poor. The dialogue can be a 
 source of unintentional amusement because the speech won't match the text. And, frequently, the 
 speech will just drop out for whole sections of conversation, while you watch characters' lips 
 move and the text scroll across the bottom of the screen. There is no rhyme or reason for this 
 happening -- often, a conversation will begin and end with speech, though the middle is silent. You 
 can't interrupt conversations, or even speed them along. And because you'll often have to speak 
 to characters repeatedly, this is very frustrating. It's annoying to sit through an identical conversation 
 several times because you thought the person might have something new to say.           Finding 
 things for people seems to be the primary task of a Dragonrider.    

  This is slight evidence that the designers have no respect for your patience. There is better evidence, 
 too. Every time you switch locations in the world, you must watch a cutscene of D'Kor changing 
 into his riding gear, mounting his dragon, flying away, landing, changing into his street clothes, 
 and watching his dragon fly away. There is no way to interrupt it, and though it is somewhat impressive 
 the first time, by the 30th time it will only appeal to the most extreme dragon fetishist. This 
 is the only dragon riding you'll do in the game, so those who want high adventure on the back of 
 a high-flying reptile will be out of luck.   

  The cutscenes would be more bearable if the game looked better. The fully 3D graphics are mostly 
 good but often seem a bit jagged. The dragons and environments are decent, but the people look 
 strange, with awkward facial expressions and stilted movement. The story is interesting at times, 
 but it gets odd near the end as weird plot twists that have no precedent and revelations that don't 
 make sense suddenly unfold.   

  Perhaps they'll make sense to fans of the books. Perhaps fans of the books will be able to overlook 
 all the small, frustrating things about Dragonriders and enjoy running around Pern finding things 
 that people have lost. Dragonriders isn't a terrible game, but it is a pointless one. And likely 
 it'll just get you frustrated as its characters keep talking about great warriors and the threat 
 from the skies, while you're busy on a scavenger hunt -- a very easy one at that.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FlamingFury
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  DragonRiders Of Pern isn't as bad as the review lets off. Although you always do a scavenger hunt 
 and one section of the game requires you to use cheats to activate switches due to errors, it tells 
 an allright story and has a lot of sidequests. Many areas of the game that should be accessible 
 such as a shop aren't, and to finish the game you don't actually have to do any sidequests. If 
 you like Pern or just a classic adventure game, give this a shot. Although not comparable to Tim 
 Schafer classics that were just re-released (Grim Fandango, Full Throttle) and amazing games such 
 as Monkey Island 3, give it a shot if you're uber-bored. Back in the day, this game was pretty 
 allright.
  
  Graphics - 7/10
  Gameplay - 6/10
  Story - 4/10
  Sound - 8/10
  Patience - 2/10
  
  If you can cope with long winded conversations and irritating flying cutscenes 
 and impossible puzzles, it's allright. Not super, but allright. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
