-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragonshard
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/dragonshard/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovative and engaging blend of strategy and role-playing.
 Interesting D&D setting and universe.
 Great graphics with excellent monsters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Short There are only 2 campaigns, yet 3 different factions.
 Wish that you could carry over weapons and equipment.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,435 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Liquid Ent.
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 2, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dragonshard is a cool combination of real-time strategy and role-playing gameplay that delivers 
 something new and engaging to an otherwise stale genre. 

  It's a strange thought, but after a decade of real-time strategy, no one has bothered to make an 
 actual D&amp; D-based real-time strategy game. Oh, there have been countless real-time strategy 
 games that clone D&amp; D, but not an actual D&amp; D game. That's now changed with Dragonshard, 
 the latest game from Liquid Entertainment. And before you think that this is a standard, formulaic 
 real-time strategy game, think again. Yes, it could have been easy to make a cookie-cutter RTS 
 game featuring a good chunk of creatures from the latest edition of D&amp; D's  Monster Manual , 
 but the folks at Liquid have done far better than that. By taking inspiration from D&amp; D's role-playing 
 roots, Liquid has made an RTS that's both interesting and new. More importantly, it's fun to play. 

          Dragonshard combines real-time strategy with D&amp; D role-playing, and it works.     

 
  The basics of Dragonshard are fairly standard for the genre, but it's not until you get into the 
 game that you discover something different. Set in D&amp; D's Eberron campaign, Dragonshard tells 
 the familiar tale of a great and powerful McGuffin that three factions are battling to possess. 
 There's the Order of the Flame, an alliance of the various good races; the lizardfolk, who all 
 descended from lizards that were mutated by the Heart of Siberys (the aforementioned McGuffin) ; 
 and finally, there are the umbragen, a dark and sinister faction that lives in the vast underworld 
 of Eberron. This underworld actually plays a key role in Dragonshard, as one of the features of 
 the Eberron universe is that the world is split between the surface and the underworld, and the 
 game takes full advantage of this fact.  

  What makes Dragonshard different is that it combines a lot of cool concepts from earlier real-time 
 strategy games and then blends the resulting combination with D&amp; D-style role-playing. In essence, 
 it literally is a role-playing strategy game of sorts, with the surface portion of the world focused 
 on real-time strategy, and the underworld, which deals with role-playing. And yet, the gameplay 
 is subtly tied together, so that what you do in one plane has huge consequences in the other.  
 

  The surface portion feels and plays a lot like a traditional RTS, but one that's heavily influenced 
 by the excellent Kohan games. For example, instead of being able to build a huge base anywhere 
 on the map, you are limited to a fixed-sized base on certain points of the map. This base-building 
 mechanic requires a lot of strategy on your part, because each base has only 16 building slots 
 that are divided into blocks of four. What you build on those blocks determines the type of units 
 that you construct, as well as the experience level those units can attain.  

  For example, if you construct a lorehold, you can recruit clerics. Now, here's where the role-playing 
 aspect of the game kicks in, because when your faction kills enemy units, you gain experience. 
 You can then use that experience to advance your clerics up to level 2. However, if you want to 
 raise your clerics up to level 3, you'll need to build a second lorehold adjacent to the first 
 one. If you want your clerics to max out at level 5, you'll need to construct four loreholds on 
 a single block. And since you have a limited number of building slots, you need to decide what 
 kind of army you want, because you can't have everything at once.  

  In order to even construct buildings, you need resources, which come in the form of gold and dragonshards, 
 a magical element. Technically, there is an unlimited number of resources in each level, since 
 you slowly generate gold automatically (think of it as tax revenue) , while dragonshards periodically 
 rain down from the skies and replenish the supply on the surface. However, the way Dragonshard 
 is designed is that in order to accumulate enough gold to win, you need to take your units and 
 adventure down to the underworld, where the role-playing comes into effect.  

          You actually get to choose a champion, but unfortunately, he loses most of his gear between 
 missions.     

  One of our biggest complaints about most real-time strategy games is that they, almost universally, 
 feature levels where you're not allowed to actually build anything. Instead, you're given a predetermined 
 group of units and then you have to jump through the hoops that the level designer wants you to. 
 There's not much strategy involved in this process, and you're reduced to basically being a rat 
 in a literal maze. However, Dragonshard actually makes these experiences fun, because instead of 
 being treated like a rat in a maze, you feel more like you're playing a traditional RPG. While 
 you're in the underground, you're slaying monsters, gathering loot, undergoing quests, disabling 
 traps, and leveling up to become even more powerful.     

   

  The surface and the underworld gameplay basically feed off of each other in a good way. You gather 
 dragonshards on the surface, but steal loot from the underground. You can slay beholders and other 
 fierce creatures in the underground, which gives you enough experience points to level up on the 
 surface. A lot of times, you have to go underground in order to find your way around an obstacle 
 on the surface. Dragonshard manages to avoid being a micromanaging nightmare, for the most part, 
 because you are rarely put in a situation where you have to constantly juggle multiple groups on 
 both the surface and down below. Instead, like in a D&amp; D game, once you have a "party," you 
 generally stay focused on that party.  

          The role-playing portions of the game will have you disabling traps and undertaking quests. 
     

  Another nice feature in the game (and one that's also influenced by Kohan) is the way your army 
 works. When you recruit new units, you actually recruit captains. On the surface, captains actually 
 form the core of your army. In other words, a captain automatically recruits soldiers, gaining 
 up to four followers at level 5. This puts an emphasis on gaining experience points in the underground, 
 because that translates into a bigger army on the surface. When you delve into the underground, 
 the captains lose their followers and become adventurers instead.  

  We really enjoyed this real-time strategy/role-playing dynamic, and it's definitely something that 
 hasn't been done before. That said, we do have some gripes about the single-player campaign. First, 
 despite the fact that there are three factions, the game only features two campaigns, and each 
 campaign only has seven missions. There are many quests in the game, so you can replay parts to 
 see what you've missed. However, despite this feature, it still feels like there's a campaign that's 
 missing that didn't make the cut. We also wish there was some kind of persistence that carried 
 over from mission to mission, because part of the joy of role-playing is to create an ubercharacter. 
 As it is currently, you only get to carry over a handful of specific items. But if you spent an 
 entire mission outfitting an elite warrior with magical arms and armor, you kind of wish you could 
 bring him along with you. The artificial intelligence also seems a bit passive for the most part, 
 though this is probably to prevent you from having to constantly race back and forth between the 
 surface and the underground to put out fires. Also, the AI is sufficiently annoying, so it's still 
 very satisfying to crush it.  

  Despite the relative brevity of the single-player game, the multiplayer game can easily carry Dragonshard, 
 and it'll be interesting to see if the community picks up on it, because it's certainly different. 
 There are a number of different modes in Dragonshard, which allow for different win conditions. 
 But the thing that struck us the most was just how nicely the role-playing/real-time strategy mechanic 
 translates into multiplayer. For instance, standard deathmatch tactics, such as an early rush, 
 are relatively futile in Dragonshard, since you start with relatively weak, low-level characters. 
 You use these characters when racing to see who gets to the underground, gathers the gold and experience, 
 and levels up first. The different win conditions can also set up some harrowing moments. For example, 
 it's possible to win by controlling various places of the map long enough, or by getting your hands 
 on sacred orbs (sort of like a capture-the-flag game) . In one game, we were in the midst of crushing 
 an enemy base when the enemy tried to win via a different method, and it was a race to see who 
 would finish first.  

  Dragonshard itself has a nice, pleasing 3D look to it, and one that's very much reminiscent of 
 Warcraft III. It's bright and colorful on the surface, but it also does drab and dark dungeons 
 fairly well. Some of the units can be a bit difficult to differentiate from one another, but thankfully 
 you can zoom down for a closer look. However, it's the monsters that really caught our attention, 
 as the designers took some of the best creatures out of the  Monster Manual , such as giant beholders, 
 mindflayers, and three-headed dragons. The remaining production values are also well done, if a 
 bit standard for the genre. For example, the voice acting has more than its fair share of gravelly 
 voiced actors, and frankly, there's not much that can be done at this point to improve the sound 
 of swords clashing.  

          Or you can just run around on the surface and crush your opponents.     

  It's been 
 a fairly uneventful year for real-time strategy games thus far, but Dragonshard certainly bears 
 checking out. With its innovative blend of gameplay, Dragonshard can appeal to both the real-time-strategy 
 fan as well as the role-playing-game fan. It's good-looking and fast-paced, and it will have you 
 crushing armies in one moment and plundering tombs the next. That's a heck of a combination.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (52 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: peterskywalker
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  If You like real time strategy games and if you like dungeons and dragons then this is for you. 
 Even if you don't like dungeons and dragons, you will probably still like this game. I haven't 
 played singleplayer, and have only played multiplayer but they are basically the same. The game 
 takes place in two fronts The top area and the underdark (A area underneath the top world where 
 dangerous creatures live) . On the top you get a base, and you get a certain number of build slots 
 that you can use to build buildings. Each building can make 1 kind of troop (which is called a 
 captain) . These captains include clerics (healers) barbarians or soldiers, rangers (people who 
 use bows) . sorcerers or wizards (people who use magic) and other units including heroes and a juggernaut 
 unit (powerful unit) . There are 3 different classes to choose from and are all very unique. Order 
 of the flame which include humans, dwarves, elves, haflings ect. Lizardlings which include lizards 
 yuanti and other lizard creatures. And finaly umberbragon which include drow like species and half 
 inithard species. The game is very strategic because when you level up your troops do to xp you 
 gain from killing monsters or enemies, you can only level troops up to a certain level depending 
 on how many building of the same type you have. lvl 2 you need 1 building but lvl 5 you need 4 
 buildings. So you can make a few amount of different powerful units or a whole bunch of different 
 units who aren't as powerful. Finally the way to earn resources in this game is good. You need 
 to use both the upper and lower world to build your army. In the upper world you collect dragon 
 shard (blue looking crystals. However since they are in certain parts of the map, you will eventually 
 have to fight over them. also at different times of the game i=t will rain crystals shards and 
 more will come in different areas of the map. In the lower world you get gold pieces from monster 
 loot barrels or chests. Most gold anyone can get but only are able to open up certain chests based 
 on thief level. The lower level (underdark) is dangerous and you will need to manage your forces 
 above and bellow to succeed. All in all this is a great game. It is not unbalanced, collecting 
 resources is not tedious, and it requires strategy... not just throwing your forces a the enemy 
 hoping to win.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alivenight
Rating: 4
Date: May 15, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  When i first got this game i realised that my graphic card wasnt good enough and it took me quite 
 a while after i bought the game to play it.
  
  I like the idea of fusion of RPG and RTS together but when you play it, you get the feeling that 
 the game is incomplete. The first thing i didnt like was the hotkeys. Hotkeys are the key in the 
 RTS games but DS keys were just everywhere. You have to look at key option to tell which hotkey 
 is for the units etc. Another one was the formation of units. Sometimes when you have full capacity 
 and many underlings following the captains, the units just dont go where you want them to go. I 
 dont even want to go about the balances of units cuz its just a mess. 
  
  The gameplay is i guess around the average. I didnt get the storyline at all just that they wanted 
 to use DS or whatever. Campaigns are somewhat really easy once you know about the game. 
  
  The sound is ok and the narrator is really annoying. When i was trying to learn about the game 
 i took the tutorials and they drove me mad cuz of the narrator. 
  
  I dont get why the game has skirmish and the muliplayer separately. it seems very unnecessary. 
 One thing about the multiplayer is that even when you play with pc, there is a slight lag. The 
 patches dont help at all cuz they dont get installed in any way possible
  
  So in conclusion, the game could have been greater but stopped in the halfway 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  My first impression of this game was that i'm playing something similar to warcraft III and/or 
 any of the forgotten realms series/releases.
  All the strategy and combat system works pretty much like warcrafts': you gather experience, gold 
 and shards (crystals appearing from the skies) . But everything works a bit differently, your xp 
 gathered can only be used to level up units which you can buy at one of the 16 nexus squared. Nexus 
 is a place, where you can start building your fortress with walls and defending towers, it forms 
 16 squares with 4 squares to each side of the castle, and if you'd like to upgrade one of your 
 unit types to 5th level, you'll have to fill 4 squares with the buildings of the same type, and 
 then use your gathered XP to do so. Keep in mind, that when your unit upgrades to desired level, 
 you can destroy 3 out of 4 buildings in that square and build power-up buildings to boast up energy, 
 HP, damage or number of apprentices your units can obtain when close to the fortress.
  Dragonshards appear quite often on the map by falling from the skies, so you don't have to worry 
 a lot about this resource, but then again, there must be always someone to collect it (that do 
 any of the ground units/apprentices) . Getting gold a bit fasted may be done like this: construct 
 as more unit buildings as possible and taxation rate will raise, so your gold number will grow 
 with each passing second. Gold can be gained in the dungeons as well in the chests or just piled 
 up randomly anywhere; some chests are locked and must be unlocked with the thieves. My opinion 
 thieves are a must and should be upgraded to 5th level, so non of the chests would be left behind 
 + thieves disarm traps.
  Also there are 4 types of champions of each race to have, each of them has their own unique passive 
 and offensive abilities with all the unique artifacts to find throughout the realm.
  One thing that bugs me is that each of the units has special abilities and in the heat of battle 
 many of them scatter, so even if you use a ability on someone, they just can't get there and all 
 the configuration was pointless, plus it's quite difficult to manipulate each type of unit in the 
 party.
  I must say the game is very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2009 8:21 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the truly first Dungeons and Dragons Real-Time Strategy was Blood and Magic (1996, 
 by Tachyon Studios and Interplay) . This game wasn't good enough to enjoy serious RTS players -even 
 DnD fans-, just because some annoying interface problems and flaws in gameplay, although I personally 
 liked it. So, only after 9 years we have another RTS with the D&D theme, known as Dragonshard.
 
  
  There is a lot of stuff we can talk about this game, and I'll start with the universe. Here the 
 player is set in the DnD's Eberron campaign, where three factions fight one against other. They 
 are the Order of the Flame (various good races) , Lizardfolk (lizards, obvious) and the Umbragen 
 (the underworld people) . Now there is this problem: although there're three factions, the player 
 can choose only between two single player campaigns, and they're very short. This lowers a bit 
 Dragonshard's gameplay value.
  
  But the thin campaign is only one of the shortcomings. Although the game features some cool RPG 
 elements, which allows the player to fight with heroes and grab some artifacts, most of the collected 
 items will disappear over the campaign. So, ironically, we have a D&D game that isn't so much RPG, 
 but we also have a DnD title with a great RTS experience. I really would like to have the opposite 
 thing.
  
  Dragonshard is considerably different from Warcraft III, as you have a fixed position to build 
 your structures and you don't have to train peasants to harvest gold. Instead of this, your army 
 will adventure in the map and collect the two resources in the game: gold pieces and dragonshards, 
 which are periodically dropped via torrents from the sky. You know well what gold is used for (train 
 units and upgrades) , and the dragonshards are used along gold for certain upgrades. It's possible 
 to find dragonshards in the map, but gold is more likely in the Underworld map, where you can go 
 with some troops to also fight against monsters, find items and attack your enemy. Yes, in most 
 Dragonshard maps, you have entrances to the Underworld that can be used to travel along the map 
 and surprise your opponent. As you can see, I found this very fun!
  
  Your base is just like a fortress, with upgradeable walls and towers. There're 16 pre-determined 
 places where you can build your structures, divided in blocks of four places. In each empty space 
 you can build a different structure, like Taverns to train rogues, Dwarven Armories to train dwarves 
 etc. If you put two or more structures of the same type in a single block, you'll have access to 
 higher level units of that type structure. For example, a block fully with Taverns allows the player 
 to upgrade rogues up to level four. If you want access to level five rogues, you'll need another 
 fully adjacent block of Taverns. This is easier to understand if you play the game.
  
  Units in Dragonshard are very different one from another. Clerics can heal, rogues can disable 
 traps (found in the Underworld) , sorceresses cast spells and so on. Almost all units are interesting 
 and fairly balanced, but Flame Archons from the Order of Flame, for example, are a bit stronger 
 than other units. You can defeat your opponent just using a pack of high level archons, even considering 
 they can't go through the Underworld, since they're flying units. New patches seems to correct 
 balance issues in Dragonshard, you may want to consider applying them before start to play this 
 game.
  
  The graphics engine is just awesome. It allows a lot of units on the screen without any noticeable 
 slowdown (if you have a slightly better hardware than the recommended) . The landscape is a bit 
 similar to Warcraft III, but the units aren't cartoony, as they look more realistic. Sound and 
 music are OK, nothing spectacular but it's good. The in-battle sounds are very well done.
  
  In Dragonshard you'll have some lengthy battles in skirmish games if you can't finish off your 
 opponent early on. This occurs because large armies battle against even larger armies and it may 
 leads to an endless struggle. Additionally, while fighting, players will often recreate their forces 
 really fast, considering you have unlimited resources in Dragonshard. This can be either good or 
 bad; it depends on your taste.
  
  Dragonshard can try stand against even ranging giants like Warcraft III and Warhammer 40k: Dawn 
 of War. It's a must-have for DnD fans and/or RTS players, and could be a lot better if Liquid Entertainment 
 develops an expansion for to extend the single player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  It's always refreshing to see a game developer go out on a limb and try something new. Taking such 
 chances has resulted in both great games and bad ones. However, Dragonshard is definitely a good 
 game which nearly measures up to its ambition. It's a convincing mix of Dungeon &amp; Dragons-style 
 roleplaying and real-time strategy (RTS) base- and army-building. It's not a superb game, but it 
 pulls off innovative concepts that distinguish it from all of the unimaginative, run-of-the-mill 
 RTS and RPG games out there.
  
  Gameplay: The game comes with two single-player campaigns and a skirmish mode. There are three 
 races (Order, Lizardfolks, and Umbragen) available in skirmish, but only Order (humans) and Lizardfolks 
 get their own campaigns. Both campaigns are well done with seven full missions and many quests 
 in each mission. You have to explore two maps -- one above ground and the other underground -- during 
 each mission. The above-ground part generally plays out as a RTS game, with base building and army 
 construction. There are only two resources to gather -- dragonshards that rain from the sky and gold 
 that you get from defeating monsters and taxation. Base construction is a bit different from most 
 games. You have preset slots in which you can choose what kind of buildings to build. You get certain 
 bonuses from building certain buildings alongside each other, but you have to choose wisely which 
 buildings to build (you can't build everything) . Each unit that you build is a captain who can 
 spawn up to four additional attached units, depending on its level (and the level of the building 
 it comes from) . Buildings and units are upgraded with experience points that come from fighting 
 opponents. The system is fresh and works very well. It encourages you to explore the overland map 
 in search of dragonshards and the underworld map in search of gold. Either way, you'll be fighting 
 both monsters and opposing armies. The only thing lacking in this system is that gold can become 
 scarce, and you may have to sit around and wait to accrue enough tax income to build more units. 
 Otherwise, the base-building in this game is a welcome departure from the traditional systems found 
 in many RTS games.
  
  The underground part of this game feels like a separate experience all together. It has a very 
 D&amp; D roleplaying feel to it, and the atmosphere can be very creepy. You can only take your captains 
 underground; their attached units reappear only when the captains emerge from the below ground 
 areas. Everything that you would expect in a D&amp; D-style adventure is there -- traps, treasure 
 chests, tombs, spells, and no less than 30 different kinds of monsters. The campaigns add several 
 quests to these areas, but the skirmish mode still maintains the dungeon-crawling atmosphere. In 
 addition to this dual gaming experience, Dragonshard has other things going for it. AI-controlled 
 opponents are pretty good at posing a challenge. Pathfinding is decent, though occasionally a unit 
 will take the long way to a destination. You can quickly view underground and above-ground areas 
 with just a click of the mouse button, and there are hotkeys for most commands. There is a wide 
 variety of units, abilities, and items available, although the roleplaying system is a bit lightweight 
 due to restrictive leveling limits and an inability to truly customize hero characters. Overall, 
 this is a very worthy game for both RTS players and RPG gamers.
  
  The shortcomings of Dragonshard are mostly minor, except one. The game comes with only 10 skirmish 
 maps (although the second patch added 2 more) . This is inexcusable and will limit the replay value 
 of the game. Unfortunately, no modding community developed around this game, and thus there are 
 no player-made maps that can be downloaded. The fact that the skirmish maps are so packed with 
 things to get into, both above ground and below ground, helps keep the game interesting, as well 
 as the fact that there are various victory conditions that can be set. Also, the single-player 
 campaigns run about 30 hours all together and are probably worth doing a second time since you'll 
 probably miss a lot of side quests during the first time through. Still, this game should have 
 shipped with at least 20 maps. (There is a map editor that can be downloaded from the Dragonshard 
 website if you want to try your hand at it.) Other minor flaws include the inability to set unit 
 formations (though you can hotkey melee or ranged units) , a backpack that carries too few items, 
 and a few campaign missions that are rather tough and require repeated efforts.
  
  Graphics: The game looks pretty good. Environments evoke the appropriate feelings of dread, wonderment, 
 and so forth, and the models are decent, though reminiscent of Warcraft 3. Spell effects and other 
 visuals look good. I think that the underground areas are done especially well, and classic D&amp; D 
 monsters are convincingly rendered. The introductory movie is excellent.
  
  Sound: The music is very good, as is the voice acting. Other sounds are appropriate, including 
 the underground ambiance, combat effects, and cutscene dialogue.
  
  Technical issues: With the second patch installed, this game was very stable on my computer. There 
 was one hard freeze during a massive fight and a bit of lag during other big fights. However, overall, 
 I haven't had any problems with the game.
  
  Replayability/Value: The two campaigns are worth replaying a second time at some point, though 
 I wish that the Umbragen had their own campaign as well. The biggest obstacle to replayability 
 for Dragonshard is the unfortunate lack of maps. The dozen that come with the game and the second 
 patch will keep you playing for a good while, since each map is essentially two maps (again, 1 
 above ground and 1 below ground) . Still, if this game had shipped with 20-25 maps plus an Umbragen 
 campaign, I would have been hard pressed to give it an outright 9 or 10 rating. Anyhow, at the 
 current price of less than $20, you'll easily get your money's worth. Nonetheless, this is pretty 
 much a single-player game at this point, since I don't think that there's much of an online community.
 
  
  Last thoughts: I'm a big fan of RTS and RPG games, and it is not uncommon to get a mediocre game 
 in either category nowadays. However, Dragonshard does both genres well and blends them to make 
 something truly special. For the current price, I can only highly recommend it. I just wish that 
 the game had been popular enough to get an expansion or to produce a modding community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunslingerMan
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Dragonshard is a new game D&amp; D game from Liquid Ent., published by Atari . It doesn't take a 
 year to figure out that this game is trying to be the next Warcraft strategie series, but it fails 
 to do so in alot of ways . Dragonshard utilizes an rts and rpg type of gameplay that works for 
 the better, it also distinguishes it from the crowded rts market even if it's not original . The 
 game has 2 different campaigns in the main story . The order of the flame ( includes Dwarve, Humans, 
 Warforged, Halflings, and Celestials ) . And the Lizardfolks which's title explains it race . The 
 other faction you can play as is the Umbragen, but only in the single-player skirmishes, or the 
 multiplayer, which is a disappointment . The factions are variable and overall each to it's own 
 effect, however considering theres only 3 factions it is a letdown, and eventually takes out a 
 little bit of the overall value of the game . The short missions in the campaigns don't help either 
 . The good thing about this game is the amount of champions there is to choose from . Champions 
 is character that gives you an overall bonus in some of your character, like faster healing and 
 such ... The basic game consists of building your barracks which is your main source of supply 
 with it you will be able to spawn your own little army . Little because the game gives you a limit 
 on how many soldiers you can have, which is little . You can spawn different types of classes depending 
 on your campaign, such as warriors, rouges etc. Of course it isn't free you will need gold, experience 
 and most importantly dragonshard in order to spawn .The worst and best part of the game is the 
 combat . Best because it's simple . Worst because it's too simple . The graphics in Dragonshard 
 are to say disappointing, or simply put bad . Character models and levels are dated . But it does 
 pump out some nice looking effects, and a nice artistic design ... the graphics aren't the only 
 thing hurting this title . The music repetitive aswell as bad, voice acting doesn't redeem the title 
 either although the sound design is good, in rts standards . Overall : It's an ok title . If you 
 really need a little bit more of D&amp; D . Why not get this title, otherwise it's just poor compared 
 to games like the one that it's trying to resemble - Warcraft . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShamusX
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  God help you if you are a group h8er. 'Cuz in D & D Online you have about 30 mins of game play 
 running solo, then kaput!! No more solo for yoo!!! Bye bye. And I do not mean if you are uber you 
 can kick azzer yer way thru. Nope. Uh uh.
  
  Remember the days of AD&D when there weren't PC's in every home and we sat around and rolled little, 
 colored, plastic, multi-sided die?? Well I NEVER recall doing it alone. And Turbine will be damned 
 if they let you do it alone now with their game.
  
  As a soloer by nature I found this VERY disconcerting at first (forced grouping) . I still do to 
 some degree... people are friggin weird, strangers especially...12 year old strangers frighteningly 
 so, so I choose to avoid that demographic completely and solo till I find a mature guild to run 
 with or stay solo. I HATE being forced to do aything in a game. But I chilled out and got in groups 
 for a little while and I did have some fun. But they were strangers... so all the cliches came true 
 eventually. No one really got along. No one was REALLY enjoying themselves. THIS IS NOT FUN I repeated 
 to myself over and over at one point where I just wanted to go home.
  
  This is a VERY accurate rendition of D & D. Unfortunately it's a D & D I never played. I am not 
 used to version 3.5, I have and I have never even HEARD of Ebberon (which I think sucks) . Why didn't 
 they use the timehonored AD&D rulebook? Bust out Dungeons/Quests written for that... even if it 
 meant living in the Forgotten Realms... or tie it all together in whatever the helll that world 
 was called... and go with material all of us nastalgia seekers were looking for? I am not sure wtf 
 they were thinking using Eberron, and no soloing is a drag since technically the PC IS teh DM and 
 I DID play on occasion just me vs. the Dungeon Master. It's called multi-roles or maybe allow us 
 to hire henchmen. Guild Wars handled that quite smoothly.... you? not so much..
  
  I put in enough quarters to last me 60 days.... but I have yet to put any more in until this game 
 goes thru its growing pains. Perhaps I have gotten bent one too many times helping to "age" an 
 MMO... and I SO LOOKED FORWARD to this one... but it is NOT what I was expecting OR hoping for. 
 
  
  It isn't a bad start though. Perhaps some hidden genius will surprise us all with an AD & D sponsored 
 game. Perhaps not. But this isn't the D & D I remember. Warforged??! WTF are those???
  
  Signed,
  
  Disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxy116
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  I shouldnt say that using other people's idea/concept is bad... but at least , please improve the 
 idea/concept instead of "Copy and Paste" and change some wordings, textures, and that's all.... 
 It is already years since warcraft III released.... and this game still using the "engine" of the 
 technology from years ago......... how lame... the map, the character, the animation.. the art 
 itself... feeling like I am playing a game that is released in 19's .
  
  okie, I am enuff torturing my own eyes and my mind... Just only tried out the demo makes me giveup 
 buying it....................... naaah... comeon, I rather play my tetris game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilscallmedad
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 25, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  Dragonshard is a RTS set in the D & D world, i have never played a D & D game before but i still 
 liked it. The game is a pretty standard fantsay RTS with a few solid additions like the underworld. 
 Dragonshard is a mixture of Warcraft 3 and Kohan 2 if you liked any of these games you should like 
 this one too. The game has 3 different races which are pretty different from each other. The graphics 
 and sound of the game are pretty good, the only problem with the game is the campaign which lacks 
 a good story and production values otherwise the gameplay is pretty good and should please RTS 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iadro
Rating: 2.2
Date: May 23, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  When I recieved Dungeons And Dragons Stormreach and this came in the box I decided I might aswell 
 give it ago, albiet most atari games i have previously played have been a tremendous let down. 
 
  So, I loaded up the game, aprehensive to begin with. First the main menu came up, mainly resembling 
 the hit Dungeon Siege, with cogs and mechanisms adorning the corners. They had, however done this 
 rather shoddily, mean the textures were rough and not exactly nice to look at.
  I then chose a profile name and started the campaign. The campaign map is exactly as Warcrafts, 
 a large map with points on it, each point is a mission, with a small description pop up.
  After the game had loaded i watched a scratchy air ship lumber through the air while a narrator 
 gave me the outline of the back story, this already annoyed me, as a frequent D&D player it was 
 apparent they were not adhering to anything even basically related to the dungeons and dragons 
 world. However I let this pass.
  As the game started and i was led by a extremely un-detailed tutorial messager to a besieged village 
 were i was instantly appaled at the frankly awful attempt at combat. Units simply stood there, 
 as tall as buildings, hitting each other with one animation until one of them went down. Shortly 
 after liberating what could loosely be called a building I decided this game is not deserving of 
 anyones time and uninstalled it.
  If you are even considering buying this game, do not.
  You will simply be wasting your money and your time. This is simply one of the worst games i have 
 ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raoul_haa
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 23, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  The game play feels week, and sometimes even boring. The story, on it's base is not bad at all, 
 but in the game itself, you don't notice at the story, he's meaningless, and the game is just levels, 
 with no reasons. The graphics are bad, they took bad artists, the characters are ugly, the scenery 
 isn't real, and the movies they put sometimes inside the levels are miserable. Music is such heroic 
 and silly, you feel like you're in a movie! Well, that leaves us with the game play; your units 
 are easy to control. The game's levels are designed as they were supposed to make your units get 
 stuck every moment. You can't go to the other edge of the map for plans; you gave to stay with 
 your units all times. The difficulty is hard too. The unit "level" thing should buy you a D&D mood, 
 hear to my advice, it just makes you get angry on the game and you start to wish you would never 
 buy it. This game is a total illusion, you think you're playing D&D, but you are playing nothing.
 
  
  Summery:
  The game is a failure, cheats are a must, and remember; if it's the first of its kind it doesn't 
 mean it has to be perfect.
  
  Score (X/5) :
  2.4 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell_Fire_Wyrm
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 18, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I am not a fan of DnD and this is my first time playing one, but from what I have seen and played, 
 this game is disappointment. First of all you only have 7 campaigns which makes the game extremely 
 short, they should have added at least 3 more chapters for each clan. Secondly, which was already 
 said and I remind it, you don't do any upgrades for your Hero/Champion. While he has one good skill 
 which requires damage to be activated this doesn't make him strong enough to hold in battle, even 
 the Juggernaut is stronger, especially the Phoenix, the scrolls only last for one battle and the 
 items you get from reward shop are limited to 2, they could have made at least 3-4. Thirdly, the 
 level of the game is very easy even playing hard, if u make 7 chapters at least make them hard 
 at hard level, if you play it on easy its just a joke. The Graphics on the other hand are pretty 
 good, including the effects of skills. The story is nice one too and well written and done but 
 again too short. The GamePlay is simple and easy to control just like any other strategy game but 
 the major problem was the various bugs in skill use that made the game so annoying at some parts 
 especially playing skirmish. Sounds were wonderful, well fitted and much realistic. Overall the 
 game is good but it definitely requires some good adjustments, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harmonious-g
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 1, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  ive played the all the campaigns and skirmish a lot, the game is solid do it could need some more 
 options. for example u cant upgrade ur hero like all the other units, which i find extremely silly 
 due to the concept of the game (D&D like)
  allso i dont see wy u have to build 4 buildings of the same type on one patch in order to fully 
 upgrade ur units.
  the backpack for the heroes r allso pretty small. and a lot of items seem to dissapear throug out 
 the guests.
  Overall i would say the game is great with some new mods it would become fantastic (specially removing 
 population limit or putting it at least at 25) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaza91
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I don't care what you say I love this game and I would recommend to anyone. That is one great factor 
 of the game is that this is playable to anyone. I'm not an RTS fan and I wasn't a big D and D fan, 
 but my brother played this game who is a huge D and D fan and he said he loved it. I didn; t get 
 this game back from him for 3 months. Another great factor in this game is the graphics and sound. 
 The graphics in this game are sub par ( yes I know thats a big word) compared to other RTS's. The 
 sound is amazing also I love the music, but the sound effects made me believe I was actually in 
 the game. And no I didnt have any problem installing the game at all.
  
  Props to sound designer.
  
  DONT REVIEW THE DEMO
  
  Who ever reported my last review will 
 DIE
  I MEAN IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reject476
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  This game had the potential to be great, but with lack luster interfaces, poorly planned levels, 
 and under realized lower levels this game ended up being average.
  
  While I do have to note that playing multiplayer is fun because you get to aim for the heros that 
 the other player built up more than others, hit it and watch them complain... :)
  
  In all seriousness, this game could have been something complete revolutionary, but they simply 
 settled on good enough to sell. The story line is a joke, the leveling system is average, and the 
 20 unit capacity is ridiculous! Granted, each of those units gets 4 underlings, but still! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-renderer
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of D&D. I love the intensity and level of seriousness in this genre. Most games based 
 on D&D always have a serious feel to it from characters to atmosphere. But this game is not. 4 
 main characters are lame, uninspiring and unloveable. Look almost like the designers are trying 
 to make them look warcraft-like instead of the classic D&D feel. When characters turn around they 
 just stand in binding pose and rotate. When the hero died during story mode he's gone for that 
 chapter (early chapter anyway) but you can still past the chaptor pumping out more units. Kinda 
 destroy the whole thing about having story in it at all. 
  
  And worst, the AI and very very lame. You can use 3 hunters and literally kill any boss by shooting 
 and run away. The boss will forget about you and turn back to it's home point in about 5 seconds 
 of running away. Rinse Repeat and you can kill any boss this game.
  
  Very very disappoiinted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maulica
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  When I played Dragonshard for the first time I was expecting a game like Spellforce ( a cool combination 
 between real time strategy and role playing game ) but I found a cheap copy of Warcraft 3 - from 
 the voices ( does the line "Are there heathens about ?"" sound familiar ? - to the potions of healing 
 and so on . I was very disappointed because it has a better rating than Spellforce -8.5 compared 
 with 7.9 ( the biggest injustice ever made to a game - I'm referring here to Spellforce - a game 
 which has only one flaw - that is the voices of the characters and a flaw that can be easily compensated 
 by everything else in the game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge D&D fan, I have been playing the paper based game since I was at school, almost 20 
 years now! Every D&D based game that comes along, I buy and sit down and play and am left disappointed 
 because they never quite capture the essence of the game.
  
  This one though surprised me, it is actually rather good and has some fine elements that will keep 
 you entertained for quite some time.
  
  The game is split into two portions. The first is an underground portion that has you trawling 
 through dungeons searching for treasure and equipment and discovering new portions of the map. 
 In contrast, the second portion is based above ground where you construct and defend your bases 
 and troops.
  
  A really nice feature is when you are above ground your troops spread out and gain midget henchmen 
 that follow them around and bulk up your army somewhat. You can gather together quite an impressive 
 looking army to stomp about. But when you move to the underground portions all the little troops 
 merge into one character and it is them that you use to explore and fight.
  
  Again, when you emerge into the over world the little characters open up and turn back into your 
 huge army. It is really quite a cool effect.
  
  The main downside I found with the game is that you can pretty much ignore everything that happens 
 above ground as your troops are pretty tough and defend extremely well so you can just leave them 
 to it and play underground where you have more input into the game.
  
  So I would say that it is a pretty passable RPG / RTS game that has a lot to offer and one that 
 any adventurer should enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Protomanextreme
Rating: 1.7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This game seems good until you hit about level 3 or 5, and when you get to 7 you start to realize..."Wow, 
 this was a waste of time, Everything in the game is just a repeat dungeons basicly over and over!" 
 and there is no challenge. The game is as follows...
  Get party to quest with
  Beat quest 
  Get loot
  Get quest on hard
  beat quest
  get loot
  get quest on elite
 
  beat quest
  get loot
  Repeat for all quests.
  This game is fun for the first 3 or 4 levels, then it starts to get boring, and this has ruined 
 my experiences for D&D, its back to pen and paper dungeons and dragons. It also has terrible loading 
 lag, and lots and LOTS of glitches in the quest, forcing you to start a 1 or 2 hour quest over. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ammbasador
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  Hmm, what could be good in this game? Old good fireball, old good charm, old good heal light wounds. 
 Nothing new. I was hoping- not a new warcraft clone, not a new warcraft clone... Isn`t a new waecraft 
 clone. but I do not want to play it anyway. Script, AI, RPG elements, dialogs- it all could be 
 better. Oh, and Charm must not work on heroes!
  BETTER THEN: Lord of the rings- The war of the Ring
  WORSE THEN: Warcraft III- The Frozen throne.
 
  What about dialogs- they are like from moon ( they will pay with blood, they will pay with their 
 lives, they will pay with...) . It could not fight for the name of the "deep game". It is only a 
 fun for some time, after work or school. After a month no one will play, good bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simsamaitis
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 9, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Things which should be improved : game play is good, but sometimes conquering enemy's base get's 
 too boring. It really feels that developers copied some things from warcraft 3. 
  Graphics is good too, but nothing special in now days. And the requirements could be lower a bit.
 
  Sounds are really nicely made, all those footsteps and victory yells, but soundtrack isn't my 
 style :)
  Value of this game is not really big, and most likely you'll get bored playing it after completing 
 the first scenario.
  You should try this game if u're a D&D or RTS fan, but don't expect anything special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akdoc
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 8, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I personally use these reviews when figureing out what game to buy. I buy pretty much every single 
 80% or above game of virtually all game types. Particularly RPG, and Strategy games for long term 
 use though. Why do I not recommend this game? Simple. NO REPLAY WORTH. It is not nearly as good 
 as all the past favorties that it takes gameplay ideas from. After one weekend I was over playing 
 it and it will go into my pile of wastes of money. Of you like the concept, stick to what you already 
 play and play it again. If you need something new, then get something else. The concept was a good 
 try, but it is way too cookie-cutter for long term fun, even if you play LAN. My biggest upset 
 it that gamespot rated this game as high as they did. They missed the mark this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 6, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is unique in a way: it takes place both above ground and below ground, but that is not 
 a revolutionary concept. Essentially, they are just two maps connected by cave and building entrances. 
 I haven't found much strategy in this game. There is only one resource that you can gather, crystals, 
 but the only way to gather them is to send some of your troops to pick them up when they appear. 
 This takes you, and your troops away from the action, and the troops you assign to gathering just 
 stand there stupidly after collecting the selected crystal instead of just moving on to the next 
 pile of crystals. 
  
  Can only build a certain number of unit creation buildings, and no real defensive buildings. The 
 number of troops you can have is very limited, and battles so fast that you end up having to keep 
 sending your troops back home to protect your weak buildings when they are attacked. Each unit 
 has several special abilities, like "smite". This is actually more of a pain, because most of them 
 won't use their skills automatically, so you have to click between troop types to tell them to 
 use them, only to find that half of them have stupidly died already.
  
  ohh, and typically annoying and repetitive command confirmation sounds: "I'm on my way!" etc.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Two of my favorite genres for the PC are definitely RPG and RTS. So I thought that a game that 
 combines the two would be pretty neat. Dragonshard attempts to do this and actually creates a solid 
 gameplay experience with an interesting blend of the strategic elements of an RTS with the character 
 development of an RPG. The problem for this game lies in the fact that neither element of the game 
 is particularly well done. 
  
  The game is centered in the D&D universe, which in and of itself is cool. The game's story is set 
 in the Eberron Campaign. Three factions are battling for the powerful McGuffin, the Heart of Siberys, 
 a magical crystal that in the wrong hands could spell doom for the other factions. The three factions 
 represent the standard good, evil and neutral designations in the D&D universe. The Order of the 
 Flame is the first faction the player controls and features 4 main heroes to control during the 
 single player campaign. The Lizardfolk were created when the Heart of Siberys fell from the sky 
 releasing its might power. They are a brutish and fercious race that will stop at nothing to reclaim 
 the Heart of Siberys as their own. Finally, the Umbragen, a dark and sinister faction that lives 
 in the dark underworld of Eberron. This underworld actually plays a key role in the game, especially 
 for the RPG elements of the game.
  
  The main elements of the game, the surface (RTS) and the underworld (RPG) are brought together 
 well. Essentially the player creates, builds and fights the large scale battles on the surface. 
 You start with a grid like area to build you city. Each city is broken into 4X4 squares where each 
 type of unit's building can be built. The more same type of unit buildings you create on the 4 
 square grid the higher level those units can achieve, which means better powers and more recruits. 
 For instance, build Lorehold to creat Captains that heal, clerics. Every level the Captain attains 
 means one more recruit the Captain will have on the surface to fight with. So essentially each 
 captain has his own self contained squad. These squads can be replenished by bringing the captain 
 near the city to refill the units. Each building type and level upgrade costs both gold and shards 
 to obtain. Shards can be found lying around the ground on the map. Occassionally a shard storm 
 will replenish the supplies. Controlling these areas is often very important to success in the 
 game. Gold is constantly created just by building more and more buildings. Every building you have 
 means a higher tax rate. You can also obtain gold in the underworld. This simplified resource system 
 may be to simple for RTS experts, but its easy and due to the relatively limited resources makes 
 creating the right units and keeping them alive important.
  
  As you traverse the map, the player will stumble accross entrances to the underworld. The underworld 
 are pathways to other inaccessible parts of the map as well as a place to find lots of gold and 
 items. Its also where the RPG elements of the game kick in. When you take your units down into 
 the Underworld only the single Captain is playable. All of the soldier recruits disappear. So you 
 basically have your Champion, that you picked at the beginning of the level, and whatever Captain 
 units you have created to that point. You can easily switch back to the surface to create more 
 units if necessary. The underground feels like a dungeon crawl. You have to explore the dungeon 
 to achieve certain objectives and move the storyline along. Certain special items can be found 
 and utilized later during bigger battles on the surface. Most of the main boss characters you fight 
 occur in the underground. Leveling characters properly is a must as you wont have as many units 
 to fight with and some of the creatures are tough. Also creating leveled up rogue characters is 
 important due to all of the chests and traps in the underworld. So choose your units wisely. You 
 can always spend resources to build one or two rogues for the underworld and then destroy the building 
 to create more offensive minded units later. The underground is where you will find the majority 
 of your loot to assist in enlarging your army on the surface so it should be one of your first 
 goals on each map. 
  
  These two elements play well off of each other, but the game seems to fall short in length and 
 depth. The game consists of two 7 mission campaigns and while there is some replayability in doing 
 all of the side quests, the game can seem a little short when said and done. Combine that with 
 the relatively simplistic gameplay and the game seems a little basic. Although the game offers 
 a lot of customizability depending on which Champion you play and what units you decide to build, 
 their upgrades are limited and once you have played through the campaign once, there isnt a lot 
 else to see and do. Playing with the other races offers a few extra units and abilities but not 
 enough to be noteworthy. The artificial intelligence is clever at times, but not enough to make 
 the game overly challenging. Once you figure out the basic attack strategy its easy to adjust and 
 crush the opposing forces. I wish there had been a little more interaction between the enemies 
 on the surface and the underworld. That might have been a nice AI addition that would have made 
 the underworld area even more difficult. Perhaps next game.
  
  The saving grace for the game and its brevity is the multiplayer aspect of the game. The game offers 
 a few different modes which basically involve different win conditions. The capture the flag element 
 of controlling orbs for certain amount of time can add a nice change of pace to the standard death 
 match campaigns. A race for resources is always present in the battles and makes building early 
 and often a crucial part of winning.
  
  The graphics in this game are solid and keep with the D&D universe feel. Battles can get a little 
 confusing due to some of the units being similar visually. The monsters and units are interesting 
 and bring some interesting attacks. You will recognize all of them from previous D&D adventures. 
 The audio is solid, but not spectacular. Voice acting is pretty much standard fare for the D&D 
 universe. The music can be a little repetitve, but not so much it makes you long for headphones 
 and an IPod.
  
  Overall, Dragonshard does a nice job of combining RTS and RPG elements into a fun yet short game. 
 While a little simplistic for most true RTS and RPG fans, the combination creates an experience 
 different from any other. A little fine tuning and few more gameplay elements thrown in and this 
 could be an amazing game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mong115
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  I t looks like they borrowed a lot from Warcraft. However it appears that just about the time you 
 get a handle on game control's, how to manage the people you have and the resources around you, 
 that chapter or story is over. I must confess i am not heavy into strategy games for this reason. 
 I liked the Dwarf's, Rogues, Clerics and Magicians. It would have been nice to have been able to 
 name and develop your own lead character that you would use throughout the game. The game camera 
 control gives you a good angle, however control is poor. For these reasons Dragonshard does not 
 quite make the grade. It's something to play till you find something better. ( 6.0 ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormlifter
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Dragonshard is a pretty good try at getting RPG and RTS to meld together, though it doesn't quite 
 sit up to Warcraft 3. The idea of having levels and captains that can get more sub-units is pretty 
 awesome, but the way the game moves just isn't very good. It seems a bit slugish and can get pretty 
 unmanagable at times with so many units and not a lot of short keys. The dual-layer gameplay is 
 very awesome, great idea, hope others follow it up.
  I also wish that the main characters would level as the game went on. 
  A little more thought 
 in the unit management side of things could've landed this game onto my uninstaller list (meaning 
 it would be installed right now, which it isn't)
  Overall, worth at least the missions, where were pretty fun, but I'm a multiplayer man.
  
  
 Overall, a decent game, a bit bloated durring gameplay. Has really neat menus though.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I hate it when people rate a game and they have only played the Demo.
  I hate to say it but today MOST DEMOS SUCK. Even the demos of the good games. Demo's today are 
 just not worth playing.
  That's all I have to say.
  As far as the game itself goes I havn't played it yet. I just wanted to vent about the stupid demos. 
 It is really stupid to post a rating of a game when you have only played a DEMO !!!! Hello ! Most 
 demos are crippled versions of a game.
  They are therefore far inferior to the real deal.
  Please play the FULL GAME before you post a review.
  There are already enough bad reviews around.
 
  Thanks for your time,
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tirtan
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  It's basically a dumbed-down Warcraft III. I played for as long as I could tolerate the game, but 
 that wasn't very long. It's just too boring.
  
  The graphics aren't bad, but the animations are what get to me. The flying units do not fly. They 
 just float around with a crappy animation that tries to give the illusion of flying... Have you 
 seen Battle for Middle Earth? THAT has flying units. This game has poorly animated floating objects.
 
  
  You have heroes. They do not gain experience. You have units that 'gain' experience, but really, 
 they don't. You get experience by killing things and you upgrade your units of each type and they 
 all get to that level. That's not D&D at all.
  
  The storyline isn't the worst I've seen but the cliches of the characters are what got to me. A 
 sarcastic rogue that only loves cash? A killing machine robot that refers to the fact that he's 
 a killing machine robot every five minutes? Who would've thunk it?
  
  Just don't buy this game. It would've been good about 4 years ago. Now, it's just sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Dragonshard was a promising idea of bringing the elements that we the roleplayers known to a strategy 
 "roleplaying" game, but, for me, its merely a copy of Warcraft with some new and interesting elements 
 like the underworld and the way you harvest the resources.
  
  However, the way you build your "cities" its a direct copy of the Battle for the Middle Earth system, 
 and the graphics are the same as Warcraft with a bit more of resolution and less sharpen polygons, 
 something that you would expect improved with the actual graphic technology.
  
  If you expect to play the tutorial, take all your patience, because the narrator its the slowest 
 in the world and makes it pretty boring.
  
  Overall its a game that tends to be a little boring with some new elements that you may enjoy for 
 a couple of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medrago
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  i begged my mom to buy this game for my birthday and she bought it.
  i ran over to my computer i installed this game and i was amazed by the film and the main menu 
 and than i beggined the campain.
  well the story is awofull the graphics are lame and the voices are terrible.
  then i was going 
 to the camp just to find out that i have only 3 spots for building and that i need to collect money 
 with my men!
  and lets not talk about the kristals: they fall we collect and they fall exactly at the same spot 
 and again and again i was so rich that i was bored and the small amout of types that you can play 
 with i mean you can creat only 6 types of unit for nation so just dont play it by by 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elrond2003
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I'm missing the real DD part of the strategy in this. Some buildings put together and then units 
 don't collect their own experience but it goes into a pool. Also I didn't see units being brought 
 over to the next mission just you heroes who do not develop only collect items. In total a serious 
 let down for me. I'm sure the story is great but the RPG-strategy chunk is sad. I'm still waiting 
 for that real DD strategy where units have actual DD3 stats and the heroes as well. If you want 
 another CC or some such it has some interesting bits but don't expect to be 'wow'-ed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cav27
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  There is nothing wrong with this game, if you take each part individually gameplay, graphics, sound, 
 they tick all the right boxes but the sum of the parts just does not add up.
  
  I suppose it boils down to that fact that it is remarkably similar to Warcraft III, right down 
 to the shortcuts. However it offers nothing new and lacks the sngle player pacing of its illustrious 
 predessor which in the end taints the 
  overall package, especially when you know how much better it could have been.
  
  Still though 
 there is enough in the game to get your money's worth. the graphics and sound are very impressive 
 for its genre. I do like the way the dungeon and upper levels run similtaniously, and the city 
 design setup add an extra dimension of strategy to your base building. I would recommend this to 
 the casual RTS gamer but I feel the hardcore will like myself will be let down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brooster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  By far, this is the combination of all the eye candy, trepidation and actual timing melded into 
 one great RPG/Stragegy gaming experience...
  
  Take the time to learn the placement of fighters on the board or you won't enjoy it... Also, note 
 that you can change the gameplay options in each scrimmage, making it ideal for every taste and 
 patience level.
  
  I found it easier to first skirmish, THEN go into the campaign... and be patient as the game lends 
 itself to particular patterns in fighting, resource gathering and above all..... placement of units 
 at the right time to back up either losses in battle or sudden ambushes...
  
  It grows on you like no other.
  
  I love this game!
  
  Brooster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2005 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I was initially impressed with the concept, then soon discovered that depth and complexity have 
 been drastically sacrificed for graphic details and character abilities that are somewhat underwhelming. 
 The campaigns aren't terribly difficult and offer nothing astoundingly exciting. I find myself 
 more satisfied with Age of Mythology or other standard RTS games. 
  
  There are other drawbacks that can be irritating as well. Gameplay can get tedious if you run out 
 of a resource, and you are confined to sitting and staring at the screen as you wait for your gold 
 to build up or for crystal shards to rain down from the skies once again. Also, you can't bring 
 your leveled up characters along with you as I believe is mentioned in the review on this site. 
 
  
  Once the game hits $20 or less, I'd consider recommending it. Not otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:47 am PT
Review:  Is it good looking? Yes. 
  
  Is it deep? No
  
  Like the trophy wife / husband who is great on the senses, but provides little of interest to the 
 mind, this game looks and sounds great, but is extremely shallow. 
  
  I cannot describe it any better than saying the game play is simply uninspiring on any level other 
 than the surface. You will get some enjoyment out of the well done cut scenes, the nice graphics, 
 and the good voice overs and sound, but that's all you'll get if you're experienced in either RTS 
 or RPG game play.
  
  Why? Because this game offers absolutely no depth in either area. The RTS and RPG content offered 
 contain only the most basic, watered-down elements of an RTS / RPG. As an end result the game is 
 becomes very boring very quick. 
  
  I don't know if the shallow RTS and RPG elements are due to it's clear console-centric design or 
 because the designers thought a more basic game would appeal to a broader audience, but either 
 way the experienced gamer will be disappointed by the lack of any meaning strategy elements in 
 the RTS portion and the lack of any meaningful depth in the RPG portion of the game. The game boils 
 down to slogging through the boring RTS and RPG elements to expose more of the pretty graphics, 
 sound, and movies, and that simply isn't enough to hold my interest anymore. 
  
  As a teenager, I may have slogged through a game like this simply to finish it or to see the eye 
 candy. However, as an adult with a couple decades of gaming experience and a much busier schedule 
 than I had decades ago as a teenager, my time is more valuable and I'm more selective about what 
 I spend the little time I have available for gaming playing. This game simply doesn't make the 
 cut. If you want a game that's fun to play and has depth in both the RPG and RTS elements, I highly 
 recommend Spell Force. Spellforce is the best combination of RPG and RTS I've played to date.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitemt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Give this one a try a great mix of RPG and RTS that it makes it great. there is a above world which 
 is the RTS coming out build buildings collect dragonshards just like age of empires just not as 
 much dept in it very easy. Then go below world and take pallys, warriors, mages, rangers, rouges, 
 clerics and kill tons of mobs while collecting gold which will help your above city thrive. ok 
 got to get out of here going to play the game some more about 10 hours played so far and cant get 
 away from it pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpk
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Not fun. Tedious, crashes a lot. This is a cumbersome game that TAKES FOR EVER TO LOAD. There's 
 also a ton of Non-player dialogue that is ALL TEXT in what seems to be about 4pt font. They obviously 
 skimped on paying Voice-over Artists on this game. It's really tedious and frankly brings nothing 
 new or interesting to the fold. in my opion they have yet to get any variation of a D&D game right. 
 (I know everyone raves about Balders Gate but I found that boring too, and I liked Diablo but that's 
 not D&D rules) . This is one more game that's too dark and full of glitches. The mix of RPG & Strategy 
 doesn't save it from itself. I wish I'd picked up a full-on strategy game I hadn't played yet or 
 an RPG that had a good plot and game play. The last of those genre's I'd palyed were Kights of 
 the Republic and Age of Mythology so I guess my expecations were too high as they were both great. 
 This didn't come remotely close. Wait till it gets to the bargain bin if you're really that interested. 
 As it stands now Never Winter Nights still looks like the best option for D&D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idnemo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 11:22 am PT
Review:  i think this is the funny source.
   you requirement must be abtain by fight.
  additionally, evaluation 
 system make the game more Tilt 
  that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's 
 all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's 
 all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's 
 all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's 
 all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's 
 all. that's all. that's all.
  that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's 
 all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's 
 all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's 
 all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's all. that's 
 all. that's all. that's all. that's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbieann0044
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  WOW someone finally teamed up RTS & RPG's and did it with D&D's!! 
  You can't get no better than that. I love both RTS & RPG's so I'm a happy camper. The game was 
 a little slow, it had alot of mini freezes, but it played great. The characters are cool and funny. 
 I give this a big ol fat 8. The grapics where good. The load time was slow as well. In playing 
 the demo I had some trouble *getting it* not being use to them being played together in one game, 
 but the challenge is cool. I plan on buying this once its realeased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountDrugular
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 24, 2005 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Yet another game in the D&D series of games. This game has nice ghapics and sound track is good, 
 tho game play is lacking and limited i found i got bored quickly and the only reason i kept playing 
 was i wanted to see if the game had any conection to the campain book. and no i doesn't seem to 
 have much connection other then dragonshards and character classes as troops with a D&D story intermixed. 
 it felt more like i was playing a poor version of Neverwinter Nights. 
  if your looking for RPG look elsewhere and if your looking for stratergy this isn't the game for 
 you. Only the Die Hard D&D fan would like this game.
  The only good thing about this game is the collectors edition. the extra 10 bucks gets you a the 
 Eberron AD&D campain book worth $70 if it wasn't for this book i would have returned the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fedejico
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 5:52 am PT
Review:  Dragonshard managed to raise my expectations to certain heights, since the idea of having a RTS 
 game placed into a Dungeons & Dragons setting together with some RPG elements quite tickled my 
 fancy. However, the aftertaste is that the results didn't quite deliver.
  The pure RTS elements, while partially original, are wisely chosen. You get to manage some "city 
 nodes" (strategic points on which you build your structures) which have a fixed number of squares 
 meaning you can't just build everything at once. Your city nodes also irradiate something like 
 an "influence area", as already seen in Kohan. While in this influence area, your units replenish 
 their life points plus your commanders marshal some supporting units into their squads - again, 
 like in Kohan, except you can't customize your squad's unit members. Then you have your tech tree, 
 your production queues and other classical RTS ingredients.
  All these features sound better than they actually feel. You are not limited to your number of 
 building slots, since you only need those slots to improve your units' levels, but once improved 
 you can still demolish your buildings and rebuild something different in that slot and all the 
 former research is still available. That is, to research the best barbarians you need four dwarven 
 forges, but once your barbarians have reached level 5 you can demolish all but one dwarven forge 
 and still you will able to recruit level 5 barbarians. So, the building slot limit is actually 
 more of a progress scheduler than an actual boundary to how developed your army can become.
  The economics also have some innovations I'm not particularly fond of. Dragonshards, one of the 
 key resources, replenish after all the resource gathering places have been exhausted. Gold, as 
 in Kohan, accumulates slowly according to how much troops you control, plus you can gather gold 
 in some other ways such as tomb raiding or enemy mashing.
  While I don't find the RTS features especially innovative or pleasant, what turns me down the most 
 is mainly the RPG setting. Some of the RPG features may seem alright, like leveling up your units. 
 However, this is only giving a different name to an already existing feature, since all RTS allow 
 "level improvements" to your units by building some extra structures. The only true RPG ingredient 
 here is that the resource needed to improve your units is called experience. That's about it. Paradoxically, 
 your heroes cannot improve their levels, so the whole "experience-based leveling RPG component" 
 is nothing but a mirage. In fact, Other RTS titles, such as Warcraft III, have more meaningful, 
 integrated RPG elements. Still, these issues do not have such a negative impact in my gameplay 
 experience as the setting does.
  Simply put, the setting feels awful. Having those dragonshards flying around to build an impossible 
 army of golems, dwarven barbarians, elven-like flying units capable of casting lighting blasts, 
 human paladins, clerics, thieves and machine-tweaking elders, topped by a phoenix juggernaut unit, 
 is overkill, plain and simple. While I thought it could be interesting to have a sword and sorcery 
 army to fight tough opponents like beholders and dragons, your units don't feel like an army at 
 all. Thus, one of the basics of any RTS game, which is having appealing factions, is absolutely 
 spoiled by the very same feature that could make it a worthy gameplay experience.
  Dragonshard is a could-have-been RTS title that, as it is, has its downfalls in what could have 
 been its greatest assets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urinal_2029
Rating: 5.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This game follows a disappointing trend to remove control from the player that I first noticed 
 while playing Dungeon Siege. The ai of your 'characters', in this case your army's captains, handles 
 the combat and spell casting, (you can't issue orders while paused so you pretty much have to leave 
 combat up to the ai, especially when you control more than a handful of units) so you are left 
 to do other things. Unfortunately those other things amount to clicking on the ground to move your 
 party around small, linear maps, clicking on treasure items and other resources to pick them up 
 (I am amazed that game designers think clicking on a pile of gold is one of the elements of 'playing' 
 these so-called 'games'. I guess if it were automated there would be even less to do) and building 
 your base. Building the base is the standard routine, which amounts to choosing what kind of units 
 you want by building appropriate buildings. There are some other elements intended to flesh this 
 out, like having the option to level up units but there isn't any depth to it. The strongholds 
 are composed of a grid of pre-determined building locations, exactly like in Battle for Middle 
 Earth. Its been a long time since the layout of a stronghold has actually meant anything to game 
 play (the last one I played was Dungeon Keeper 2, and thats pretty old now) so the designers have 
 decided to remove it as a factor, but it simply serves to highlight just how little thought goes 
 into building an army in this game. The process is wrote, with a few token choices along the way. 
 Which is pretty much how you could describe the linear level design as well. I also couldn't find 
 the touted 'role-playing element' that other reviewers claim fleshes out the standard RTS model. 
 Maybe its the fact that you can talk to some NPCs who give you quests. These quests are very simplistic 
 and on the small, linear maps with only a few available quests its not like you have a myriad of 
 choices of how to proceed. There's also no character design and progression which I would have 
 expected when playing anything coming anywhere close to a role-playing game. There are hints of 
 a connection to D&D rules, spell names, classes, etc., but these have been so simplified that there 
 is no way to have the kind of varied and open ended characters and gameplay that are possible with 
 those rules. Ultimately Dragonshard, and other games like it, are not technically games at all. 
 You dont play them. They run on rails and you simply click the mouse to move them forward. Since 
 you dont have any real choices to make, any problem solving to do, theres no sense of accomplishment. 
 The only motivation to finish the game is that you paid money for it.
  
  That said, if you like RTS games theres no reason you wont like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanyhsu
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 11:03 am PT
Review:  Dragonshard attracted my eye for a variety of reasons, foremost being its attempt to have a better 
 way to control units, and secondly its attempt to inject role-playing aspects into a RTS game. 
 It is also the first RTS game to be based upon the world famous Dungeons and Dragons RPG rule system. 
 Unfortunately, it fails in both aspects.
  
  The game revolves around the creation of units calls captains, which act as automatic soldier generators. 
 Your captains start out at level 1, and as you kill enemy units, you gain global experience. This 
 experience can be spent at the various captain generating buildings to raise the level of all respective 
 captains generated by that building type. This is retroactive, existing captains are upgraded, 
 and all future captains of that type get the level bonus as well. That level bonus enables the 
 captains to start to recruit following, mini-units that act as smaller versions of the captain. 
 Supposedly the followers also give the captains higher damage and health ratings. Unfortunately, 
 it all breaks down right there. For one, it is virtually impossible to tell which unit out of the 
 four or five in a cluster is your captain, because they all resemble each other. Every captain 
 has multiple abilities, some of which center around the captain, and properly placing them is practically 
 impossible. Kohan at least had a graphical icon to represent the whole unit that you could click 
 on, and the captains were visually distinct. Dragonshard gives you no such convenience. Kohan also 
 removed direct control of your company once it engaged in combat, but Dragonshard still lets you 
 directly control the unit, which means micromanagement becomes an issue.
  
  The other problem is the role-playing and RTS aspects of the game do not mix well together. The 
 first three missions served as a tutorial to the various game mechanics. The game does a poor job 
 of informing the player exactly how and when each method of playing game is appropriate. I failed 
 several times trying to raise an army when the appropriate solution was to explore the underworld 
 in RPG mode and collect this totally unhinted artifact of immense power. The other time I tried 
 to explore the underworld, I was crushed because it was really optional, and the main threat was 
 the lizardman army. Many of the abilities given to the champions in the game are unimaginative, 
 and some are completely overpowered (in particular, the champions that give a +15% bonus to damage 
 for all units are undeniably out of whack) . The upgrades and items that each champion can get are 
 also unimaginative, every champion has three identical upgrades (one that makes their attacks area-effect, 
 another that increases the attack speed, and a last one that vastly increases their damage) . The 
 RPG aspect of the game seems very poorly thought out, and does not really do the vast fantasy resource 
 of Dungeons and Dragons justice.
  
  The production values of the game are decent, and the voice acting is tolerable. Sometimes the 
 units sound good, other times you can detect that the voice actors are less than into it. In particular, 
 the voice actress for Lady Marynn reminds me of the voice actor who played Lady Aribeth in Never 
 Winter Nights, although I could not confirm this. Technically, the game is still laden with bugs. 
 I managed to crash the game twice in four hours on a state of the art platform (P4 3.4 GHz, 2 GB 
 DDR2 RAM, PCI-X ATI RADEON X800) , even after patching with an update that promises to remove "many" 
 of the glitches. The game is also an incredible resource hog, most inter-army battles slowed down 
 my machine to a crawl, even at lowered resolutions such as 1280x960.
  
  While the ideas behind Dragonshard have promise, the execution by Atari leaves much to be desired. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: confab
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 3:22 pm PT
Review:  First off, a warning for Dungeons and Dragons fans: despite the D&D license, Dragonshard's gameplay 
 has nothing to do with the D&D d20 ruleset - do not expect traditional D&D character leveling and 
 stats. This is a D&D game only in the sense that it's set in an official D&D campaign setting, 
 and uses D&D monsters and character classes.
  
  On its own merits, Dragonshard is an interesting blend of some of the most distinctive elements 
 of Kohan II and Warcraft III. You don't build individual structures in Dragonshard; like Kohan 
 II you have cities with predefined slots for buildings. Each city has four areas containing four 
 slots, and you have to fill an area with four structures of the same type to maximize the level 
 of the troop the structure produces. Instead of maximizing a troop's level, you can opt to build 
 monuments that provide troop bonuses.
  
  As they gain levels, units can support up to 4 expendable subsidiary soldiers. These subsidiary 
 soldiers are not under your direct control and are added automatically when the unit is in the 
 vicinity of your base, again similar to Kohan II's line of supply. The supporting soldiers can't 
 travel underground, so gameplay in the underworld switches to a traditional rpg dungeon crawl, 
 reminiscent of Warcraft III creep hunting.
  
  Experience points in Dragonshard aren't assigned to the unit that made the kill; xp is assigned 
 to a global pool which you use to level up a troop type. As a D&D fan I took awhile to get used 
 to this method of leveling, but over time I came to appreciate the superior strategic control it 
 gave me over my army's makeup and development.
  
  One of the appeals of the Eberron campaign setting is that there's a great deal of scope for adventures 
 involving complex intrigue, scheming and exotic locales; unfortunately this is an opportunity Dragonshard 
 let slip. All we get with the included single player campaigns are: a) fight your way through a 
 horde of enemies to capture a magic artifact, and b) defend your land from enemies trying to fight 
 their way to a magic artifact you're sworn to protect. Pretty run-of-the-mill stuff, and the character 
 development is more or less nonexistent. With only two seven map campaigns, the game is a little 
 on the short side, although replayability is fair: each map has a number of optional sidequests 
 and bonus point challenges.
  
  Maps in the single player campaign are well designed and nicely sized - small enough to keep the 
 action focused and intense but large enough to allow for exploration and strategic considerations. 
 Do not expect to organize complex feint and flanking maneuvers as you would in Kohan II; the single 
 player campaign mostly involves dungeon crawling and skirmishing to level up units, then hurling 
 them en masse at the enemy base to wear it down. It's fun, and the rpg elements keep things varied 
 and interesting, but the degree of strategic sophistication does not measure up to the best RTS 
 games.
  
  My biggest criticism against this game is its stability - I experienced a number of crashes after 
 long gaming sessions and the occasional corrupted saved game. These problems were not significant 
 enough to hinder my enjoyment of the game, and they're nothing a patch can't fix.
  
  Visually the game is attractive and the interface works well; sound and voice acting are of a high 
 standard. Gamers with aging machines approach with caution: I played on a 2.2 MHz rig with 512 
 MB RAM and a Radeon 9800 Pro and experienced slow load times and noticeable lag at times. Overall 
 this is an excellent game with enough variety and novel features to keep RTS fans entertained. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khat75
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 1:56 pm PT
Review:  it is good game but need some like amap editor and more units monsters and it is easy not ahard 
 game as isee so u must play the trail verson to test this game befoer u buy it and u will see bad 
 or agood game thanks alot and good so ilike this game so much and ihope u try it too and u will 
 see it so and iam waiting for the next one age of empire 3 ithing it is awonder full game too couse 
 iplay the trail it one of my best game ever seen befoer thanks alot and good buy see u later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer3999
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Dragonshard is pretty fun once you get use to it, bugs however overflow it.
  Its set in a battle for middle-earth/warcraft world filled with some cool addons. 
  As and RTS, 
 its basicly the same building style as Battle for Middle-Earth, but the RPG part is more like an 
 Icewind Dale type game.
  Its really cool that there are dungeons that you can go into and get gold and fight some cool looking 
 monsters.
  
  *Need more races in the game execept for 3.
  *Many bugs that need to be fixed
  *Cool monster
  *Nice units
  *Dungeons are cool also
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liger_ironfist
Rating: 3.8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 9:14 am PT
Review:  The RPG end of the game needs a lot of work. I found the lack of item slots to be sad and worthless. 
 The characters are all pregenerated making them someone elses idea of a hero/ heroine. The upside 
 is that they all regenerate at a decent rate, however the amount of henchmen is determined by exp. 
 points, a town that reminds me of War Craft in the early days with the need for gold and dragonshards. 
 The only items I liked that I found were the Fire Ring and the scrolls of exp. The pre-decided 
 areas of expertise of the henchmen makes them pretty useless except in there fields of use and 
 you cannot upgrade their protection without leveling them up. The selection of hero's could be 
 increased to other types also.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTPAHHIK
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows strategy game with hero that has special abilities and receives experience points 
 killing enemies. Except now you get to spend those exerience points to upgrade your units. Your 
 hero doesn't change much throughout each scenario - it's supporting units that make all the difference. 
 Add to the that size of your army - 20 is max, which is fairly small and you have strategy with 
 RPG elements where battle tactics matter the most. 
  Pretty good single player - guess its worth trying out. 
  
  
  bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla
  
  Did I get 100 words yet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danmotan
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 13, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  A very lot of games are exactly the same, i like strategy games but i am geting tired of this kind 
 games giving the same experience, unfortunatli there are not too many games that are new and original 
 like black&white, only mixed games like dungeon siege 2 from 3 games, all where played by me and 
 it just does not give the same satisfaction as it should do, i played to many games the same like 
 warcraft, diablo, morowind (that i liked very much) , but stil the same game it is like a song that 
 does not stop i think that the rpg creators shouldbe much more creative thats whi im going to play 
 from now on nfs underground :- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sphyh
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 12, 2005 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Not bad.... not great but not bad... If you enjoy a good RTS game and need something to hold you 
 over till the next gen... check this game out. If you are a fan of any of the following games or 
 a combo there of this is worth playing.
  
  1.) Starcraft / Warcraft 1-3
  2.) LoTR War of the Ring
  3.) Baulder's Gate (any)
  4.) Pen and Paper D&D
  5.) Neverwinter 
 nights
  6.) and games of those sorts...
  
  Now the gameplay is awesome because of the dual interface and the unique grid system for leveling 
 up. Downfall its buggy but hopefully it will be fixed with a couple of patches. Graphics are what 
 you would expect from a RTS maybe slightly more. Sounds are kinda like reinassance fair actors 
 but there are parts I dont mind. Now to pay 50$ for it now is good but I wished I would waited 
 for another patch. OVERALL its a good game and if you like those games listed and waiting on your 
 360 or Oblivian like me its a good filler game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Dragonshard is a real D&D game and ads the best of the RPG and RTS elements into one game, making 
 it fresh and new to gamers but it doesent develop on that and the final result is somewhat unfinished 
 product with great potential. But lets start with the first thing...
  
  Dragonshard story is about 3 races that fight over the dominance. The Lizards, humans and the underground 
 "monsters" will all fight to secure their dominance in the dragonshard world. Although the story 
 is pretty good, it doesent take you deep with in it, and it's rather only a base story than a deep 
 interesting story.
  
  From the begining you'll be abble to choose from two campaigns. Then on the first mission you can 
 choose your hero, there are four to choose from but it's not a single character developing as in 
 the second mission you can choose any other of the four heroes, which could be good if you know 
 the herose better and challenging at times as you'll need to force only one hero to develop it 
 so it can fight the tougher monsters you'll face in the game. The heroes are not too interesting 
 or special to play with as they are only with average strenght and power so its better to send 
 3 solders you can build at your base than sending the hero alone as it will surley die.
  
  The graphic engine isnt't impresive as there are many games from the RPG and RTS genre with much 
 more better graphics. You can zoom pretty close to the ground and see the heroes or monsters from 
 up close but by doing that you wont have an overview of the map and you wouldn be abble to see 
 any enemies that are on your path. The default camera is better but it makes the characters on 
 the ground too small.
  
  The gameplay is average, although with this kind of game more could have been done the improve 
 the gameplay. The maps are "easy worked" as thay lack details and objects that would enrich the 
 enviorment.
  
  Overall the game is good but will get you bored pretty soon and at least for me the most important 
 in a game is to be interesting and fun to play.
  I'd advise you not to buy this game as there are much more better games available now or you could 
 stick with the well known warcraft 3 and play dota on battlenet or any other map available for 
 the game as will offer you more fun than this new game-Dragonshard
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbuck187
Rating: 2.2
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game was released way, way, way too soon. It is infested with problems. I have a good system 
 and got the game to work fairly easily, BUT the thing was crashing about 10% of the time. I thought 
 I'd install the patch (the one they had to release the same day as the game which should've been 
 a red flag) , well the patch is installed, the game still crashes 10% of the time, but now it does 
 it WITHOUT SOUND. That's right, the patch didn't improve gameplay.
  
  Atari should be ashamed of themselves. They are greedy and lazy for putting this thing out with 
 so many existing, obvious problems. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
