-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Drakensang: The Dark Eye
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/drakensangthedarkeye/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Large, deep fantasy gameworld.
 Great deal of character depth with abilities and skills.
 Tremendous amount of gameplay for the $30 price.
 Sharp visuals packed with little details that bring the story to life.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Generic RPG story and setting, with recycled creatures, characters, and quests.
 Character skills and stats are overly complicated.
 Cringe-inducing voice acting.
 Problematic camera.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  1, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.4, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 455 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Radon Labs
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Feb 23, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This epic role-playing game has great depth, but is hampered by a number of significant design flaws. 
 

  Last year's hit from Germany, Drakensang: The Dark Eye, has arrived in North America with a budget 
 price and a classic scope that evokes the likes of Baldur's Gate. Production values are wanting 
 in spots, but even with voice acting that might make your ears bleed and some convoluted character 
 development, this remains an involving, old-fashioned heroic saga. The Radon Labs-designed game 
 still hits the spot if you're looking for a traditional RPG with just the right mix of wizards 
 in pointy hats and unsung heroes looking to fulfill their destiny.  

  Drakensang's story and setting have been compiled from so many fantasy novels, movies, and games 
 that Drakensang will initially cause deja vu. You play a stereotypical hero who starts off as a 
 nobody, yet soon becomes a legendary adventurer as the fulfillment of -- yep, you guessed it -- a prophecy. 
 Everything here seems to have been randomly pulled out of the grab bag of RPG cliches. Gruff but 
 lovable dwarves, hippie elves who just want to be left alone, mysterious messages from old friends, 
 rampaging goblin hordes, and forgetful mages who are mirror images of Gandalf make up the cast 
 of characters in the medieval fantasy land of Aventuria. As with timeless RPGs such as Baldur's 
 Gate, you manage an entire party of up to four adventurers. Quests are many and feature myriad 
 goals that run the gamut from keep-busy jobs such as killing a white wolf and tracking down a stolen 
 diadem to cleaning out a crypt of the undead and solving riddling rhymes. Just about the only touch 
 of originality comes from the main plotline's focus on dragons, which at one time ruled the world 
 before a scaly civil war.  

           Cramped quarters and an unwieldy camera make adventuring indoors rather awkward.      
 

  The game's mechanics are derivative and cluttered up with extraneous rules taken from Drakensang's 
 pen-and-paper inspiration, The Dark Eye. Characters are crammed with finicky stats, talents, and 
 attributes that can be hard to come to grips with, especially in the beginning. Each hero comes 
 with eight attributes, nine base values, five talent pools with five separate skills in each, a 
 raft of combat talents dealing with each weapon type, three schools of special abilities, magic 
 talents for spellcasters, and a recipe book for the alchemical, blacksmith, and archery goodies 
 that you can put together on your own. Whew. In addition to all of this, there are a pile of races 
 to choose from, all pulled from standard fantasy folk such as humans, elves, and dwarves, and in 
 turn slotted into about 20 race-exclusive professions. For example, if you choose to play as an 
 elf, you can become a ranger, fighter, or spellweaver. Pick a dwarf, and you're stuck with a mercenary, 
 sapper, or prospector. And so on.  

  Documentation and in-game tips are plentiful, leaving you with a lot of reading to do when rolling 
 up a character. You can cut to the chase and select an adventurer with prerolled skills and stats, 
 along with a suitable randomly chosen goofy name such as Gerron Goose or Glombo of Wildfang. But 
 the huge number of talents and stats attached to each adventurer means that doing so just drops 
 you into the game with scarcely an idea of what you're doing. Any time saved on creating a hero 
 is eaten up by the number of times you get killed due to not understanding what sort of character 
 you're adventuring with and wrangling with choices whenever you level up later on. To develop a 
 true understanding of abilities, you need to spend a good hour or so creating a character in the 
 expert mode, tweaking the tons of skills and stats until you have an idea what's going on. Serious 
 role-players will love this attention to detail; more casual fans may be overwhelmed.  

  A lot of attention has been paid to fine details that establish a feeling of venturing into real 
 places. Every cave, chamber, and forest clearing has been dressed up like a movie set, with lots 
 of dungeon accoutrements and trees adorning every place you go. All of these background effects 
 can be a bit much, though. When adventuring outdoors, the dense foliage of the wilderness gets 
 in the way so much that you have to constantly rotate the camera to keep an eye on your party. 
 This problem is even worse indoors, given that the camera cannot be scaled back much beyond ceiling 
 level. Instead of the bird's-eye view of the action provided in most third-person RPGs, here the 
 camera locks in tight on your party leader, making it nearly impossible to scroll back far enough 
 to see the way ahead. In the darkest passages, you have to navigate using the minimap because you 
 simply cannot see well enough to move around properly in the main screen.  

           Drakensang has plenty of depth, but it's a lot to figure out in the early stages when 
 creating a character.      

  Sound consists of standard sword-smashing clangs and the celestial swooshes of spells, along with 
 some of the most god-awful voice acting ever committed to a game. You almost wish that the developers 
 had left the dialogue in German, because even though the end result would have been unintelligible 
 to most of the North American audience, at least then the conversations would have sounded kind 
 of cool. After being stuffed into English, every spoken line is wildly oversold with excessive 
 shouting and exaggerated hand gestures. The lone saving grace is that most NPCs deliver their conversations 
 through text after the opening blurt of words has brought shame to voice-only thespians everywhere. 
 The core script itself has actually been written and translated well, with a minimum of the flouncy 
 language that tends to creep into European RPG imports. On the other hand, most chats regarding 
 quests are quite dull, which lessens the impact of saving the world D&amp; D-style, but is still 
 better than the florid alternative.  

  Larger-than-life RPG epics like Drakensang are few and far between these days. The story and quests 
 are generic, and the character management is unnecessarily complex, but this is still a fairly 
 captivating adventure that delivers most of what old-time RPG fans want and expect.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (48 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Drakensang is the best fun I had in the last 4 years of RPG gaming !
  First, the good things :
  - cool story, the main ingredient of any game
  - new rules to learn 
 and understand
  - huge dungeons
  - nice crafting
  - low amount of magical weapons, armors, items, etc. who give more of a real world feeling.
  
 - good graphic
  - difficult combat, based on strategy and running ! Yes, you run to live and fight another day 
 !
  
  Bad things :
  - low amount of vitality points (aka health points)
  - camera angles kind of unbalanced
  - huge dungeons !
  - no automatic return to the cave entrance 
 after clearing the place. 
  - some enemies appear in most places from thin air
  
  All in all, this is a great game, with lot of monsters, NPC, nice looking cities and, most important, 
 an gameplay and story who kept me glued to the PC !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbobbster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 11:00 am PT
Review:  Being a hopeless gamer who sincerly enjoys most all games on all systems, I loath what many once 
 great game franchises have become, dumbed down and boring.
  
  The trend of riding the wave of Wii and DS success, seems to be to create games everyone can play. 
 Don't get me wrong, I hate games that are difficult to just be hard core, that is just frustrating 
 and not fun. But games like Fable II, Oblivion and Fallout 3 could have been much more amazing 
 games than they are. The trendy level matching design of how your oppenents are always matched 
 with your level in these games is a great example of how to nueter the challenge and thought interactivity 
 that are skillfully present in a good game. Knowing that you don't have to carefully build up your 
 character in order to survive made my expierence with Oblivion and Fable II much less magical than 
 the preceding ones. Play leveling really flat lined the challenge to a casual experience that became 
 tedious although graphically amazing and interesting, but bland and without real challenge or strategy.
 
  
  For example, wandering into the wrong area before your character is ready and getting a sound butt 
 kicking is rare or non-existent in newer big title games these days. That is a huge part of what 
 makes a quality RPG enjoyable for real RPG fans. You learn your surroundings, your capabilities 
 and your adversaries... you explore, die, adjust, try again and interact, learn, get better, then 
 go kick the butt of the baddies who owned you the day before! Now that is fun and rewarding and 
 so much of what I love about Drakensang and good past RPGs in general. 
  
  I listen to many, many game geek podcasts and TV shows and have heard "Game Experts and Reviewers" 
 discount Drakensang such as saying "Drakensang, do we care?" in a dismissive manner as they move 
 onto games they are paid to promote. These guys represent a disturbing class of reviewers who are 
 putting numbers next to games and effectively steering people to buy dumbed down games for people 
 with little or no attention spans! 
  
  I fear Drakensang could be a dying breed... I hope not. Another example is Stalker and The Witcher, 
 both great games that required thought and character building and I don't think they received the 
 credit they deserve and are compared to pretty and overly hyped games unfairly.
  
  I decided not to expand of what other have described about Drakensang's game play, I love it. But 
 instead I just wanted to point out the biggest plus to me about Drakensang... it requires a little 
 thought and a whole lot of exploration and discovery with real consequences, but in the process 
 provides a truly rewarding, fantastic gamer experience through and through... wow, what a concept.
 
  
  Bottom-line, if you are an RPG fan, this is a real GEM and if anyone in the industry is listening, 
 please take note many gamers have brains and an attention spans of more than 5 minutes, really 
 we do, and those who don't had stopped reading this post about 5 - minutes ago and are waving their 
 Wii remote :o) 
  And for those that don't, please sit down a "Wii" will be with you shortly!
  
  (NOTE: No disrepect 
 to Wii's everywhere I have one, love it, but you get my point I hope.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasjgc
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 8:34 am PT
Review:  This game is almost perfect. I just wish I was able to customize my character as being fat, skinny, 
 muscular, and also face customization would have been real nice too. All the characters have static 
 appearances. A way to customize your characters hair would have been good too.
  
  Other than that, the game itself is great, I like it a lot. Great game! Great environment, and 
 good battle system. Also the extra entities such as plant picking and animal carcass salvaging 
 makes this game really fun to play. I hate hack and slash games they get so born so quick. This 
 has much to offer in way of something different. If your a gamer and you dont like WOW, of D&D, 
 then this game is for you. Drakensang goes far and above other games of it's genre.
  
  And, the forums for this game kind of suck as they are all in German. Would be nice to have a English 
 forum. I can not ask any questions if I need help with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry that this good game should be hampered by some technical problems. It's interface is 
 somewhat inconvenient and camera view is not very intuitive. Some voice dubbing has nearly no feeling, 
 only just a flat tone no match for situation. Map is the most disappoint factor. Why this game 
 didn't quote the auto-traveling system of recent blockbuster RPG, such as Elder scroll IV : Oblivion? 
 Too much time wasted for just 'traveling'.
  Graphic is just so-and-so. Not bad but not good. 
  
  But, storyline itself is very impressive 
 and solid. Diverse quests and addictive storyline saves this game from just an uninteresting game. 
 Character growth is somewhat overly complex and some skills or abilities are overlapped, but To 
 somebody (such as I :) this complexity may be a charming point rather than annoying.
  
  Conclusion : Truly worth playing if you can endure some inconvenience.
  The cheap price also 
 give a potential of purchase
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rootdog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 3:26 am PT
Review:  Must admit that had never heard of The Dark Eye pen-and-paper RPG before I got this. However after 
 playing its digital incarnation, Drakensang, I certainly feel it's a nice improvement over the 
 multitude of D&D-based CRPGs (OK, D&D was the grandfather of RPGs, but no idea why it is still 
 used as a basis for CRPGs when there have been so many better systems created since) .
  
  Even in it's digital version, Drakensang offers much greater flexibility and depth to character 
 development, on top of the wide range of character classes you get to choose from. The traits and 
 attributes that come with each class makes them distinct, but the ability to develop the skills 
 you want or train in new ones gives you the freedom to pretty much develop your own customised 
 class.
  
  The combat system similarly offers a wide range of options, with a multitude of combat abilities 
 and magic abilities that can come into play. However to use these properly, you really have to 
 use the pause feature to issue combat orders, which gives a stop-start feel to the otherwise real-time 
 battles. Overall however I find the system pretty satisfying and fun.
  
  The combat system also makes weapon choice more than simply a case of 'which does the most damage?'. 
 Different weapon types allow different ranges of special combat moves, plus all weapons have different 
 modifiers to attack and defence. The armor/encumbrance system also makes for some interesting choices 
 beyond 'what's the max armor I can fit on this character class?', plus defensive combat/magic abilities 
 offer viable alternatives to just loading up with heavy armor.
  
  The presentation of the game is a bit of a mixed bag imo. Graphically it's pretty good, with some 
 beautifully detailed and atmospheric areas and some nice effects. It has to be said though that 
 the occasional voice-acting is pretty dire, and the dialogues in general are pretty unconvincing. 
 However, it works well enough to pull you into the multitude of quests available in the game.
 
  
  The control system works OK, but could really have been better. The right mouse camera control 
 generally works pretty well, but does occasionally glitch up in confined spaces - also a continuous 
 move from holding the left mouse would have been nice (rather than the choice of keyboard or click-to-move) . 
 Also, considering many people will be unfamiliar with Drakensang's quite complex mechanics, a bit 
 more explanation or, even better, a full tutorial would probably have saved a lot of unnecessary 
 frustration.
  
  As mentioned in the main review, the setting is a smorgasboard of just about every available fantasy 
 cliche - normally I'd hate that sort of thing, but am finding the game so absorbing and enjoyable 
 that it actually doesn't seem to matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russellt28
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:33 am PT
Review:  First off the game has some awful problems, minor glitches include characters not moving in to 
 fight, not following commands, horrible camera angles, and unresponsive mouse control at times.
 
  
  Then there is the incredibly strange and hard attributes page, were you will easily lose yourself, 
 a small tutorial would have helped. Lighting could have been better as well. some dungeons are 
 too dark and the little torch never helps much.
  
  But here is the good part:
  IT IS AN R. P. G. what i mean is that your character stumbles about in the dark, can get killed in 
 zones to hard for him, must learn many traits like bandaging, treating poisons, relies heavily 
 on a party strategy, and requires your love, care and attention.
  A GOOD RPG is supposed to be hard, and at time frustrating, the darker a tomb is the more immersed 
 you become in the game. You will need to seek out masters in arms, archery... because unlike other 
 games your character does not come with a set of pre-ordained skills and talents, not exactly anyway.
 
  Finally while the dialogue and graphics are pure RPG flavor meaning a bit hokey, full of under 
 dressed ladies, and over the top, long-ass, conversations you do fall into this sexual paralleled 
 medieval world.
  
  If only the develops took a little more time with the horrible camera angle this game would jump 
 up to an 8.5 for me. But if you are a real fan of Icewind Dale, BG, classics such as Eye of the 
 Beholder... then you NEED to play this game. for those looking for a Never Winter nights model 
 this game is a waste of $$ for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maartenvc
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:01 am PT
Review:  So a low critic score, a high user score ...
  Meaning this game might be interesting. And it is ... in a way.
  
  First of all, this game 
 is for RPG-fans. I can't see anyone other trying to play this game. Lots of numbers and complicated 
 upgrade-systems. It's hard to say how it actually works. You earn experience points on the go by 
 killing and questing. These points can be spend on all attributes and skills (if you unlocked them 
 before) cost accordingly to their power/effect. That seems logical ... but it's harder to find 
 out which skills will be useful, how much to spend on them (instead of your attributes) , and if 
 they will have any effect at all. 
  
  Some things may clear up if you check the log (question mark ? on the left corner) but not all 
 information is displayed. Right-clicking on a skill also gives some information, but basically 
 it's all trial-and-error. All together, you get a looot of points during the game, so that's positive 
 ... if the character-building didn't stop you from playing before. ^^
  
  So totally RPG, that seems okay. I like that very much as an RPG-fan. However as the rules are 
 RPG, the battles are ... different. It's Real Time action based on a Turn Based system with Rolls, 
 but in order to make it actually work properly you have to pause the game and pick an action/spell/power. 
 Neverwinter Nights did that too, but it worked. In Drakensang it's a real pain. They just couldn't 
 decide if it would be TBS, RTS or RPG, and their mixture just doesn't work.
  
  Also as the battle might give you some action/suspense, they are repetitive and kinda boring (especially 
 in the beginning) . Even choosing which action to win the fight is not really clear. I often got 
 myself wondering why I won or lost at a sudden.
  
  I'm warning players too, that a lot of conversation or as I call it in this game click-click-click-yaaaawn. 
 It's boring. There's nothing for grabbing my attention to read and reply. The story should suck 
 you in and keep you going, but in Drakensang it doesn't.
  
  in short
  What I like: equipment slots, vibrant colors for a change when everybody goes brown and gloomy, 
 some quests
  What I dislike: rules, epic boringness, conversations, some quests, annoying camera, battles, intro 
 movie, story
  
  I give this game a 7.0/10.
  
  Do not play this game, even RPG-fans watch out.
  Go play some 'The Witcher' or 'Neverwinter Nights 
 2', but please avoid Drakensang. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wojcha
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This RPG may be a bit hard for people that are new to RPGs, but it's very addictive, and easy to 
 catch on. The combat is how to say... turn-based, so even if u are a inexperienced gamer, you can 
 pause the combat and see what you can do next.
  
  Graphics are pretty good, but don't expect Crysis. There are a few minor graphic bugs, but they 
 aren't much noticeable. Graphics: 9.5/10 
  
  Sounds in the game are good overall, but the voice localization is a bit bellow average. Effects 
 and environment sound are partially good. OST is great. Sounds: 9.0/10
  
  Gameplay... Well depends what your gamestyle is... If you are a slowpaced gamer, this game is just 
 right for you, but if you expect Oblivion or something similar, then you won't like it. Because 
 of this i am gonna give.. Gameplay: 8/10
  
  Overall, this game is a pure classic and should be in your RPG collection if you are a RPG gamer, 
 but be warned: this game is not for everyone. Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadaandkel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 7:26 am PT
Review:  Long time crpg'ers may feel like they're being left in the dark when it comes to new game releases. 
 Even our beloved fallout series has fallen by the wayside with the release of fallout 3. Thankfully, 
 Drakensang is here to alleviate our cravings for a real crpg.
  
  Right off the bat. I have to say that this game deserved at least an 8. Drakensang's as streamlined 
 out of the box as you can get compared to most other rpg's released these days. It's a definite 
 plus to play a game and not have to wait a few weeks or so for a patch that fixes game issues that 
 should've been fixed before the game is released in the first place.
  
  For the rules set, yeah its not as easy to get yourself into if you compare it to DnD, but its 
 not entirely right to criticize it for that. If you think about it, lets say someone bought a DnD 
 licensed crpg and he's completely new to the ruleset, that person imo would also need to read his 
 fair share of stuff about DnD to truly enjoy the game. 
  
  One of the reason why I enjoy playing rpg's is to figure out how i can maximize the potential of 
 the characters im playing. Granted, its not as easy to learn as DnD, the tooltips embedded on the 
 interface in game in drakensang should help newcomers familiarize themselves to the nitty gritty 
 of this game.
  
  As for the graphics engine, I dont see anything wrong with it. In fact, most people who played 
 it and shared their opinion about it consider the graphics in drakensang as one of its main selling 
 point. Its a definite plus for me to see how such a small company with a limited budget managed 
 to create a graphics engine as beautiful as what drakensang has. For an rpg, this is as delightful 
 as an eye candy as they come.
  
  Voice acting in drakensang is a bit of a touch and go. For the most part, they did it right imo. 
 The only thing that grated my ears was from the intro cinematic. It's also not a huge loss for 
 me that they didnt have voice overs for all the lines. Ive been used to playing crpg's (and no, 
 i dont consider oblivion/fallout 3 as crpgs) and they dont have full spoken dialogue themselves.
 
  
  I enjoyed the music in this game. The tunes were appropriately synched with the onscreen action 
 or lack of it. Its more than adequate and though repetitive, its not as if a lot of other great 
 crpg's change their tracks every 5 minutes or so.
  
  The animations are fluid for the most part. Seeing your characters performing special attacks and 
 perfectly timed together is a thing of beauty. Again, im basing my comparison on other crpgs when 
 i say that the animations in drakensang is perfectly suited to a game in this genre.
  
  The storyline is decent but not thorougly complex. Lets just say its not as good as Planescape's. 
 Some parts of drakensang borders on boredom, but compared to other cprgs, its not that horrible 
 since there are some engaging moments in game. This game has plently of written dialogue, i wouldnt 
 exactly call it a negative, since for the most part you can skip those and still know what youre 
 supposed to do. But that doesnt make it as enjoyable as knowing all the details of the stories 
 involved. There are some genuinely funny moments in this game if you dont skip all the dialogues.
 
  
  I'd score this an 8.5 -- and im being stingy when i give it an 8.5. Given the relative obscurity 
 of the developer and the budget constraints they experienced in crafting as true a crpg as this 
 in recent memory, Radon labs definitely has a winner with Drakensang. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrathofshag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Good third person rpg's are difficult to find. Sure there are a lot that will entertain you for 
 a few hours, but more often than not the game will begin to repeat itself and lose its appeal. 
 Because of this I was all the more pleased upon finding that Drakensang not only kept me entertained 
 but in my opinion stood almost on level with the likes of Neverwinter Nights and Diablo. It was 
 hard for me to place what exactly is so appealing about this game, for it certainly is not a reinvention 
 of the genre and it doesn't even feature multiplayer, which is often a major draw for this type 
 of game. However there are elements to this game that always leave you wanting for more, which 
 is sign of a good game. 
  One thing that is immediately pleasing about this game is the pacing built into it by both the 
 leveling and the loot system. This is not a game where each enemy leaves a horde of treasure upon 
 his demise, and while this may not seem like a big deal it actually brings a lot to the game by 
 eliminating two major game-killing factors. For one, the player isn't always swapping out his equipment 
 after each battle for some new gem, which while exciting for the first few times can make finding 
 better equipment somewhat anticlimactic; by making you wait for your loot Drakensang gives players 
 a real sense of satisfaction and excitement with each find. The second improvement is with the 
 leveling system, which while still featuring distinct levels does not make you wait for each level 
 to build up your attributes. Experience/Adventure points are earned through defeating enemies and 
 completing quests, and can be spent at any time during the game; this allows for your character 
 to gradually improve his skills over the course of each level, and also makes him/her more adaptable 
 to a given situation (assuming you save some points) .
  Another element that should be noted is the story that drives this game. I won't devote much to 
 this simply because I do not want to spoil it for any prospective players, but I found it to be 
 better written than many other games; on a similar note there are also many side quests that are 
 entertaining and don't feel like they are just there to extend the reported playtime.
  This game does feature some imperfections of course, and though they are far from debilitating 
 they should be noted. The first, which I previously mentioned, is that there is not multiplayer; 
 I found this very disappointing since I love playing this type of game in particular with my friends. 
 I have also encountered a few bugs/glitches, but nothing that has made the game unplayable.
  I am sure there are more pros to this game that I am missing, and even more that I am unaware of 
 since I have yet to finish the game, but I can say that this game is definitely worth buying. Also 
 I hear that there is a prequel in the making, so be on the watch for that in the (hopefully) near 
 future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinmasta619
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 7:10 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 10
  Amazing graphics and world detail. For a game which comes in under 4GB and gameplay of around 90 
 hours, the graphics are awesome
  
  Learning Curve - Not So Easy
  It seems hard to upgrade four players. And the way to upgrade each and everyone balancing the point 
 is bit hard. But once you get used to it, its real fun.
  
  Story - Nice
  Really nice story. Just the same old 'good guy kills the bad guy'. But keeps you interested.
 
  
  Difficulty - Just Right
  JUST RIGHT. Might seem too easy in the beginning, but it gets really hard if you don't use the 
 items and powers wisely. And the enemies get tougher by the progress of the game. Boss fights are 
 really well placed at correct stages of the game. And different players have different weapon skills 
 and magical talents (THE BEST PART) . Its real fun to get a person each with particular skills to 
 make a good balanced team. (All four being battlemasters wont help)
  
  Worst Part - For God's Sake..... Run !!!
  They cannot RUN !! The players 'run' really slow which 
 really irritates you when you have to walk through places (which happens a lot in the game) . 
  AND ITS DAMN ADDICTIVE !!
  
  OVERALL : SIMPLY AMAZING !!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peltz999
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2009 12:46 pm PT
Review:  When i got my hands on Drakensang i put every other game out of my mind untill i was finished with 
 it. It is a very solid product and the developers have invested a lot of time and effort into it.
 
  
  Graphics are well done, the world looks and feels great.
  
  The animation department is a bit lacking. Very limited variety.
  
  The lack of spoken dialogue 
 is mildly irritating but nothing problematic.
  
  The biggest drawback is the lack of life in the game world. It has a distinct MMO feel since the 
 NPC don't move or do anything other than just existing.
  
  There are lots of classes to choose from but its really difficult to understand the difference 
 between.
  
  The magic schools and spells are great, A+.
  
  The fights are mostly boring, with few exceptions. The mother Razinsky fight is definitely the 
 best in the game.
  
  Despite these small shortcomings i think the game is worth buying but not from Steam, its way too 
 expensive on Steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danisheraser
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 8:04 am PT
Review:  Simply said; This is a great RPG.
  
  It is sad to read gamespots review, as it so much tells that the RPG-genre have been left for "kids" 
 who needs everything as simple as possible.
  I am against this catastrophic review and I hope Brett Todd won't review more RPG's for gamespot, 
 as it certainly make the site very unreliable. Go check review's elsewhere.
  
  For true RPG fans this game will entertain you for many hours. Although the story is a bit simple, 
 the developers got so much else right. And on the contrary, I would say the more complicated character-system 
 brings a far better challenge than the common "bioware" type RPG (you actually have to THINK) .
 
  
  All in all you get a great game for a small amount of cash.
  
  - Simple story (though it gets better the farther you get)
  - Bad voice-overs
  - Great in-depth 
 fantasy world/setting
  - Great graphics
  - Characer development/system is challenging and brings something else instead of the old-fashion 
 D&D style.
  - Lot's a content (quests, crafting etc.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRC000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  terrific old-school style (dungeons and dragons-like) rpg with loads of game play. i found it more 
 engrossing than Oblivion. i've been disappointed by game releases in the past few years having 
 6-8hours (at most) of game play before the story was finished; at most you'd play for a weekend 
 and then shelve it or resell. this game has loads of story line that sucks you in, lots of main 
 and side quests; most of them fun. the voice acting is excellent. graphics are good -- maybe not 
 as innovative as they could be, but i'd rather developers focus more on other things and keep the 
 hardware requirements so that you don't need too much to play on max settings - i found the gamma 
 to be on the dark side. custom character creation or pick a standard; lots of "helper" classes 
 to choose from to add to your team to help you. if you like d&d style rpgs, you are going to love 
 drakensang. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaga_Telesin
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Having been a fan of PnP DnD since the late 70's, and a gaming enthusiast when it comes to RPG 
 games on the PC, I of course couldn't pass up the chance to fire up Drakensang when the english 
 version was available.
  
  At first glance, it is good looking and very intriguing. Character customization is rather varied 
 mechanically, but overly simplistic visually. You get to pick your class archetype and gender, 
 but nothing else about the way your character looks or sounds. The backend customization should 
 you choose to use it gives control over all skills your character will need in the world.
  
  Beginning gameplay seems fairly well laid out, and plays more like a classic party RPG with 
 MMOG elements for crafting and questing. Dialog (for the english version) was very well translated 
 and acted out, and the non-voice acted portions (the bulk of your character's interaction with 
 NPCs) were done just as well.
  
  This is where the review take a turn off the road of "well done" to "not so well done" lane...
 
  
  The community that plays this system in Germany claims it has been in use/development for twenty 
 years now, and yet the gaming system that Drakensang relies on is overcomplicated in some areas, 
 and childishly simplistic in others. Working out certain numeric aspects of your character's skills 
 can be rather cumbersome due to formulas involved. Not to mention, it isn't a straightforward system 
 of gaining skills - they are purchased with experience points that you receive as you adventure. 
 Essentially that makes this a point based system instead of a level based or use-based one.
  
  The part that really let me down as a gamer was when I started designing my character. I almost 
 always play magic users - the classic mage archetype with offensive, protection and utility spells 
 that while vulnerable, also excels at putting out damage and assisting the group. That character 
 unfortunately doesn't exist in Drakensang - why I can only guess. The entire game seems somehow 
 anti-magic when it comes to what is available, and how it plays. Based on 40+ hours now of adventuring 
 with a 4-char party, it seems painfully obvious that the vast majority of skills and abilities 
 in the game was meant more for three classic archetypes, in varying amounts. If I was to hazard 
 a guess, I'd balance the archetype content and focus from the designers at 55% Fighter, 20% Ranger, 
 15% Thief, and 10% Mage.
  
  There are *very* few magic items in the game, whether gear or spells that actually do something 
 for you or your companions. I broke down and played a battle mage for this purpose, and finally 
 found that not even a staff wielding mage was adequate - I had to specialize in sword & board (1H 
 weapon + shield) to make him viable.
  
  The game also seems somewhat devoid of monster variety. As my party is an average level of 5 now 
 (up to 20 max) , you would think I'd seen more than two dozen opponents, when in fact (other than 
 NPCs) I've probably only seen six. Wolves, boars, rats, slimes, and bandits are about it - for 
 fourty hours, plus quests. I have no doubt there are more coming down the line in my game, but 
 I have to admit to being utterly bored to tears with the current fare.
  
  To sum Drakensang up - it was visually and audibly well done, and the UI is polished enough that 
 it works well for people familiar with RPGs on the PC. But the content is imbalanced in favor of 
 the mundane, and the repetetion is only tolerable from the well-done questline and immersion that 
 it brings.
  
  Overall, a game worth playing for the price. But it does make one wonder: what have they been doing 
 over in Germany for the past twenty years that would take magic (as we see it in D&D) and thin 
 it down to a mere shadow of what is normally seen in fantasy roleplay games? Not every character 
 has a beard, a set of armor, and talks in a gruff voice when they order beer...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaskaze
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 5:19 pm PT
Review:  First, the pros:
  -Surprisingly good voice acting for a subpar story, a subpar script, translated from German, no 
 less (perhaps the German is a tad better, and lost in translation) .
  - [Usually] good graphics, atmospheric effects
  -Surprisingly complex battle/endgame. Unlike other 
 RPGs I have played where a methodical player will have a GOD at the end (pretty much an untouchable 
 character) - which = boring, the law-of-dimishing returns approach applies to Dark Eye rules, which 
 means things get rougher when tough opponents show up at the end. Otherwise, opponents are generally 
 easily dispatched during the game
  -I suppose if crafting must be considered a major plus, the crafting in this game certainly matches 
 if not exceeds many competitors, despite there being major - and I mean major - holes in terms 
 of availability (i. e. some item "lines" have many recipes, others have not a single one) .
  
  Now, the cons:
  -A snoozer of a storyline. In fact, just hitting escape for most of the dreary/overwritten 
 dialogue makes for a much quicker game.
  -Another RPG where the developers only have so many hours so... we get to fight rats and spiders 
 almost the entire game! fun! fun! (NOT) .
  -Mostly a bug free game (had complete failure at one point, easily fixed by deleting all but one 
 game in the save directory) , but not the translation: you will get funky German on the screen from 
 time to time, and have no idea what it says.
  -The Dark Eye rule set - or perhaps this game's interpretation, is just plain silly/broken.
  
 Some examples of oversights:
  1) Completely unintuitive. Almost every single "trait" (attack, parry, spells, "hit points") are 
 based on three (or more) of your basic stats rather than one, and some of these connections make 
 no sense whatsoever. And your basic stats are a bit cloudy to begin with. All of these leads to 
 a sea of "washing out your stats" ... i. e. any particular class really doesn't differ that much 
 from another, with the only clear cut lines drawn in the sand is due to abilities like Armor I, 
 etc. which require a specific strength. A quick web search on the details of the rules for calculating 
 hits/misses etc. leads to even more confusion. 
  2) Although interesting in concept, wounds are simply an annoyance to the party, and much too easily 
 manipulated against opponents in later levels. This is because wounds take a major chunk out of 
 player stats, and after 5 wounds - hit points lost doesn't matter - the player/npc is dead. This 
 means: a) every char in your group will have/must spend on high willpower. To do otherwise invites 
 an insta-dead event for that char. b) opponents later on are easily insta-killed using multi-wound 
 attacks, or not at all (hmmm, sudden wound immunity shows up, I wonder why...)
  3) No one in their right mind would be a thief, burglar, or any other "lightweight" without spells. 
 Charlatan would be a good choice, except you meet one to join your team really early on. (Charlatan 
 is OK) . This is because: in the endgame, the only course of action for a spelless thief is to become 
 a fighter (i. e. daggers in this game are more than useless, and there are no special fighting moves 
 that are thief only) ... i. e. to spend your experience points, you will be beefing up your character 
 to look suspiciously just like a fighter (including abandoning daggers) , since there are no spells 
 available for a pure Thief. In which case - why not just begin as a fighter? There is no backstabs, 
 no duel-wield, no complex feat list like in D&D.
  4) One must take pause even choosing a fighter class in this game. Why? Because the main hero, 
 starting a bit way into the game, gets awesome armor which allows one to cast spells... and if 
 the armor allows you to cast spells, even having an extra heal option for the party is worth it.
 
  4b) Be a spell caster? More of a choice, but the penalty (draining the game's equiv. of mana really 
 early on in fights) means you really should be more of a fighter/spellcaster - ranger, battlemage, 
 etc. In other words, fights last a hell of a lot longer than your spellcasting does without potions.
 
  5) No resurrection. In the endgame, if one character dies, you are pretty much toast. Add that 
 spurious 5 wounds you are dead problem (along with a few other crazy spots where one char can get 
 hammered to instant death) , and you are reloading a save game, rather than, in other traditional 
 rpg games, pulling yourself out of the hole using a cleric.
  6) Mysterious skills that seems like point sinks rather than valuable in the game. Example: Dwarf 
 nose. I can think of only 5 or so places in the entire game where this trait shows anything (I 
 can think of only one places that should have shown, but make require 20 skill) , and the places 
 are easily discovered without the talent. Same goes for many of the spells (e. g. upgrading them 
 seems to make no difference whatsoever)
  7) Resist magic = completey foobar'd? Hard to tell... upping this seemed to make no difference 
 against hard chars (when you need it) zapping you with lightening.
  -some of the constructs in the game are really old fashioned. I mean really old. Like going to 
 a world map, and having a "unexpected encounter". That harks all the way back to Ultima days...
 
  
  tips for players:
  1) have several healing chars
  2) have at least one char with ice cold warrior
  3) have at least one char that can summon
 
  4) max willpower
  5) look for a potion of power (part of a quest) . this potion is just plain crazy, and makes the 
 end game much, much easier (or, for a challenge, ignore this potion) .
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: topsemag55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 12:25 pm PT
Review:  You've got to love a program that doesn't crash your PC. Drakensang runs superbly on XP SP3. **Note** 
 Ensure your DirectSound (part of DX 9.0c) is up-to-date, otherwise Drakensang will not boot. The 
 solution is to install the latest DX 9.0c updates, or the latest DX 9.0c SDK from Microsoft.
  
  Drakensang is replete with tremendously realistic graphics. Eye-candy galore. The buildings 
 have a look of a medieval period. The artwork for clothing is superb.
  
  Once I became used to it, I appreciated the ease of use of the menus for Inventory, Stats, Spells, 
 Skills, etc. A nice touch, having a second sack for Inventory. I appreciated how simple it was 
 to transfer items around.
  
  There are some drawbacks to the game, one of which is the cost of upgrading your character & your 
 party members is expensive - almost prohibitively so. If you don't use your earned points right 
 away, it's a sure thing your party will be killed. It's difficult at best to save up enough points 
 to purchase the stat upgrades that cost 100 or more points.
  
  The relationship between armor and magic use is taken too far. Characters lose their magic abilities 
 completely if they wear certain types of armor. The developers should have used a spell percentage 
 drop if a character is armored. Not only that, but something as simple as changing a hat can drop 
 a stat (like Dodge Value) . It also makes no sense to lose an Attack Point when wielding a shield, 
 since they have Shield Attack (and the shield arm does nothing when empty anyway) .
  
  I like the quests in the game. I enjoyed them because the main portion of certain quests would 
 at times open up several related side-quests, which significanly raised my immersion. But they 
 should have been more generous as to the number of Points you earn for quest completions.
  
  In my opinion, I fell they programmed some of the Boss Encounters with too high of a difficulty. 
 It detracts from your immersion level when you have to reload a save a dozen times, trying a dozen 
 different ways to solve the Boss Encounter, and still ending up with a dead party and game over.
 
  
  This doesn't kill my enthusiasm for the game, however. The difficulty might cause you to shelve 
 this game for a time, but it will be short-lived. Drakensang is very enjoyable despite these shortcomings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 8:53 am PT
Review:  Drakensang is a party-based sword and sorcery RPG, in a similar tradition to D&D games like Baldur's 
 Gate 2 or Neverwinter Nights 2. Basically, if you're a fan of the CRPG tradition, then you can 
 be confident that you'll enjoy Drakensang. 
  
  In fact, Drakensang closely resembles NWN2. They have a near-identical interface, generally similar 
 game mechanics and both have generally terrible storywriting that you're better off just pretending 
 doesn't exist. 
  
  Drakensang's biggest strength is its innovative skill system. The basic concepts of pen-and-paper 
 play will be instantly recognisable to anyone who's played a D&D RPG, and it shouldn't be too hard 
 to figure out the specific rules - just right click on any given stat or skill on your character 
 sheet to learn how it's calculated. 
  
  The beauty of the skills system is that every skill is upgraded individually, allowing you focus 
 on key spells, skills, or stats. With a little patience, any character can specialise in virtually 
 anything. It feels more fun than 3E D&D rules where most abilities are only profitable if you invest 
 all of a character's experience into a narrow set of skills, making it difficult to create genuinely 
 fun multi-class characters.
  
  Graphically, the game is competent though hardly breathtaking - it's a little demanding of resources 
 in terms of graphic output, but any current generation computer should handle it fine.
  
  A lack of polish shows in a few places throughout the game - there are one or two unintuitive quest 
 stages, and the occasional puzzle with an easily overlooked solution - but nothing struck me as 
 jarring to the game experience, and I never got frustrated at the game.
  
  The only real frustrations I had with Drakensang were with the camera controls (which, once again, 
 suspiciously resemble those found in NWN2) . The lack of free camera movement makes it difficult 
 to see what's going on in confined spaces, and when issuing move orders rather than holding down 
 the move keys the camera has a tendency to lag behind your character (s) . Some areas of the game 
 are particularly frustrating because the low "roof" of the level design forces you constantly swivel 
 the camera back and forth to be able to see what's going on.
  
  All in all though, Drakensang is a competent and fun CRPG, and an example of what I'd like to see 
 more of as a fan of these games. It seems tragic that the pinnacle of the CRPG was in the 2D isometric 
 games like Baldur's Gate 2, and that we've seen nothing to match them since. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:07 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy old school CRPGs like Might and Magic, Wizardry, Baldur's Gate, Neverwinter Nights, 
 etc. you should enjoy this one. Other than the new graphics this game has very old school CRPG 
 feel to it. With the always pause option on, you can even have turn-based combat. For those of 
 us who grew up with old school turn-based CRPG from companies like SSI, New World, and others this 
 is a great option, but for the real time zealots the game plays perfectly well in real-time and 
 that is in fact the default.
  
  The graphics and sound are great and the character and role playing system are deep and interesting. 
 The voice acting is generally well done where present and the characters are interesting as is 
 what I've seen of the main story line. 
  
  Bottom line, if you like old school CRPGs with updated graphics, you should definitely get this 
 game. They have a demo, so there's really nothing to lose. If you're not sure try the demo, but 
 if you like old school CRPGs, just buy the game because you're going to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbra_aeterna
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:38 pm PT
Review:  If you like long games that have a rewarding story, you like quests that involve playing the detective 
 and much (much!) killing, in beautiful environments, this is a game you should play.
  
  You can control up to 4 partymembers (including your character that you select at the start) , each 
 having different stats, different looks and different stories. For example, one of the first that 
 you encounter is Rhulana, a female warrior that obviously prefers fighting over talking, but she 
 can come in handy with the first quests that you encounter.
  
  These quests (at the start, though) are the standard errand boy quests (Kill X of this, bring me 
 Y of that) but it changes soon (I won't give you examples as I don't want to spoil anything :) ) .
 
  
  Spoilers are, by the way, the least you can use as the story that develops in front of your eyes 
 is one of the best that I have ever seen in a game (the only game that had a better story that 
 jumps to mind is The Witcher by CD Projekt) . You will play the detective, find and kill murderers 
 in a city that is very much 'alive'. The characters have their own scheme of the day (going to 
 the herbalist, talk to other people) while they are to be found in their beds at night. This is 
 something extra so you are more easily drown into the game.
  
  Overall, this is one of the best RPG's that I have played recently. I give it a 8.5 because no 
 game is perfect, and there are still some bugs that need fixing (quests that do not end, corpses 
 that just vanish before you can loot it, etc.) 
  
  If you're a fan of RPG's, this is a must buy. People that like to see more action, are better off 
 with a good multiplayer FPS... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candoitagain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This is the closest to oldschool pen and paper role playing game I played in a long while. It uses 
 The dark Eye, which is a combat / skill system similar to D&D but different. I enjoyed discovering 
 this new system, which have a few strengths and a few weaknesses compared to D&D.
  
  Strengths of the combat system comes mainly from its leveling system. Experience is used to upgrade 
 everything. From stats to spells to talents to weapon mastery. This is good as it does not try 
 to baby sit you and limit your options level by level, like what you see in similar games like 
 NWN.
  
  Its weaknesses revolve mostly around balance. For exemple the daggers weapon class is fundamentally 
 flawed and need some major changes to be at least remotely useful in the game. Some spells do not 
 scale well, others are near useless.
  
  The game itself is very pretty, and even if for me graphics are generally not an issue (gameplay 
 being the king) in this game it really helps immersion tremenduously. Characters and NPCS look 
 great from any distance, even when zoomed in real close. Some places like the dark forest with 
 a few rays of light coming here and there are very charming.
  
  The combat system is very dynamic and fun. 4 fights on 5 you can just play it tactical, using keyboard 
 shotcut to cast spells, special attacks and such in real time. For more difficult fights you will 
 feel the need to pause the game and really think about strategy and plan every action. This gives 
 a nice balance between pure action, and strategy.
  
  Note that the first part of the game is kind of easy, probably to let the player learn the game 
 mechanics. Later on things become more challenging and the real fun begins. This increased difficulty 
 will make you want to think about your characters and the way you build them, similar to what happens 
 to you in diablo or in most MMOs where character planning is a big part of the fun.
  
  A little advice on this last part : it would be a good idea to join a forum where you can ask your 
 questions about the more advanced aspects of the game and the experience system. The dark eye is 
 similar to D&D but is different enough that some homework can really make a difference in how strong 
 your characters can become. (Some things can look similar to D&D on the surface, but be very different 
 in practice.)
  
  I finished this game in around 80 hours. And even then, It was fun enough to go back and try some 
 different choices (quests and character development) for an additional 40 hours. Which is an amazing 
 value for its small 29$ price... and it is even availlable on Steam!
  
  I highly recommend this to any RPG fan out there.
  
  PS: I am very disapointed in Gamespot 
 right now. This game has been released for almost a month now (even more than that in germany) , 
 and they still have not reviewed this excelent game yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owen_2
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  It might be a tad unfair to denounce a game based on playing the demo, but since the demo is supposed 
 to sell the game, you might expect it sells it's best qualities. If not, the marketers should be 
 shot for the demo certainly scared me off . 
  Drakensang has the quality and game-play that reminds me much of the first Neverwinter Nights 2 
 episode. The visuals are nice, but the game-play drags along. The story is predictable and boring. 
 The background is run of the mill. Elfs, dwarfs, orcs, goblins, wolves the whole gamut of beings 
 we are so familiar with turn up in this game. This is the kind of game you spent your time kicking 
 in barrels to get at pennies and farthings. This is the kind of game where combat consists of rounds 
 of combat. You can't tailor the way your character looks and a big chunk of your time is spent 
 at listing to npc delivering predictive and repetitive lines.
  
  Not only the gameplay is a turn off, the entire story and presentation is unimaginative. A mysterious 
 man who orders your death and then disappears. The start of the demo you are more or less being 
 forced to do something. "If you don't do this you won't get to the next area." You can hear the 
 game designers say. That bodes well for the rest of the story.
  After an hour I had enough of this.
  
  A friend of mine is willing to buy the game and see 
 if it is worth the trouble. Until he convinces me otherwise I avoid this game.
  Drakensang might have bat eyes three years ago. And actually the game has been on the market in 
 2007 in Germany. Now it's to late to be impressive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: therascricket
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 13, 2009 1:46 am PT
Review:  Unless immediately after the 10+ hours i put in this game it starts making you mixed drinks and 
 auto-dials some topless dancing girls over for a visit......... this game is fail.
  
  Id gladly rather re-install Neverwinter Nights than have to trudge thru this abomination. Id rather 
 double click the Icewind Dale 2 icon on my Vista any day than play this drivel.
  
  Sorry, but if you make a game this outdated as far as the camera and overall flow of the game, 
 expect harsh criticism. Its an extremely wonky game.
  
  Play Icewind Dale 2 is you want a party based RPG based on D&D rules that has a better story, pause-n-play 
 combat, and a party that you can construct from the ground up. 
  
  Yeah, when I was breaking barrels for pennies and....."rusty nails" i got that sinking feeling 
 of "oh, I should be doing something else" and indeed I was correct.
  
  Im not sure how its even getting decent review to be honest. No, I dont expect too much from games 
 and I certainly know a good RPG when it comes along. Dont scoff at me if youre not an Icewind Dale 
 or BG vet as those are better iterations of part based RPG's all day long. 
  
  Again, unless something freaky good happens after you get into the second area, thumbs down for 
 this. I could only reccomend this if you live on RPG's..... I mean, literally have to play a new 
 RPG to survive! Otherwise = fail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:52 pm PT
Review:  RPG games can often take time to develop and become fun right? So I gave this game over 20 hrs 
 and still found nothing worthwhile.
  
  Killing rats is an old standard for starting off a standard RPG... but after 10 hrs of gameplay, 
 can you at least toss me a goblin or some type of humonoid!
  
  After breaking open 100's of barrells to get crazy fun items like rusty nails and mere penny's, 
 it started to get really old. Eventually I went from the terrifying rats to the awe inspiring Amoeba! 
 Ohhhh, now that will send terror running through your blood.
  
  A completely linear game that offers up your standard "lets go run an errand for Susie the Barmaid" 
 over and over and over. The maps are hard to navigate if you dont have a steller memory, the character 
 ramble over and over to the point of pure frustration, and the puzzles are boring and pointless.
 
  
  In fact, I found the whole game pointless... RPG's are based on a risk and reward principal. You 
 do things enough times, you get rewarded by gold, or levels, or special armor. After 20 hours of 
 maxing out with chainmail, I said forget it.
  
  Sorry folks, but unless you like to be errand boy, or you really do enjoy killing a 100 rats, this 
 game is boring at best.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scoutier
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:29 am PT
Review:  When i first got this, i thought, "well i'm going to try it but somehow reminds me a few rpg's 
 i've tried before."
  
  But as soon as i dedicated into it, at last a worthy rpg.
  You see there's nothing quite new, but you'll be soon captivated to keep going forward as you play... it 
 start's with a slow pace but soon enough it changes.
  Believe me!
  
  A few buts, i wish there were more animal diversity, more character customization and some spells 
 needed more colour effect. 
  
  
  It's a must for any rpg gamer.
  Lush and detailed environments, people ( if you just scroll your characters they look pretty human, dwarfish, 
 elvish, lol) and not stale or clunky. 
  
  I think this game is being underrated, when there are some games that don't look this refined and 
 wear off your computer...
  Ps. I would love to see some cut scenes with action, ex: enemy attacks with fireball and main character 
 blocks in a "pretty" way, then the battle starts. It's just a thought... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 10:13 am PT
Review:  For awhile I was on the verge of quitting the game and putting it on the "discarded" shelf. The 
 beautiful graphics held me somewhat, though, and the thought that a game with such a complex character/stat 
 system just *had* to have more to it than was meeting the eye.
  
  I was right to stick with it. There's a point in the game when the combat and encounters suddenly 
 get very interesting; Drakensang goes from excruciatingly easy and tedious, to where you're fully 
 engrossed and gritting your teeth and using all your power and tactical skills (and spells and 
 inventory) to get by. And still you're reloading because it's not enough. I had to backtrack once 
 or twice because a boss was far beyond my party's level; you have to be careful about choosing 
 your battles, especially around the fourth-to-eighth levels.
  
  So there is indeed a satisfying payoff as you get into the game, a payoff that offsets the early 
 part of the game where your party gains experience under some less-than-awesome circumstances.
 
  
  The graphics are quite pretty, and there is substantial detail in the environment. The story ain't 
 bad, either. It's not "Torment," but hey, it's not bad. The voice acting is fine and can be quite 
 amusing ("Strunkle's feesh are cheap and deleesh," the fishmonger's wife calls) . The English translation 
 is decently fleshed-out and without any notable flaws -- descriptions are fairly explicit and helpful, 
 and dialog is fully developed.
  
  All in all, it's a very nicely done RPG with a lot of tactical depth and a decent plot. Even with 
 some of the too-linear quests, Drakensang has a way of holding your interest.
  
  There are some rudimentary concessions that some "purists" may find distracting, such as the system 
 where there's no penalty for casual pick-pocketing; and you can pick a lock and take items from 
 a chest that's right out in the open and sitting next to a merchant. But in general you're not 
 going to get anything all that valuable from these little ventures, and I personally don't mind 
 being given free rein in such things. To me, it's all about the tactics and the need to properly 
 manage stats and equipment.
  
  If you're looking for a Baldur's Gate -style RPG, you could do a whole lot worse than Drakensang. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gotrek44
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  As people might have known by now, this is based off a German pen and paper engine thats highly 
 popular. I have never played it but if its as complex as this games adaptation then I could see 
 why its so popular. First off this isnt an RPG that swims with the stream in the 21st century. 
 That in my opinion is a good thing. To me this game is all about the story telling and what you 
 do in it. Not about one single great attraction and decorated with RPG elemants like in today. 
 But this game could have been so much more. Its almost as if its overbearing with story and not 
 of gameplay. 
  
  You begin by creating a character of one of the 20 archtypes. Man dwarf and elf to its given class. 
 Each set with its own stats spells and talent points... unless you choose expert mode. Then its 
 fully customizable. You cannot edit the appearence. You can only pick the gender and name. With 
 40 spells and around 30 talents through out the game with 8 attributes, strength constitution agility 
 dexterity charisma intuition cleverness and courage, the character creation is quite complex and 
 fun. Theres plenty to do. The leveling system takes alot of thought. Which is hard for beginners 
 because you could waste your xp points spending points on stave use or charisma for your warrior. 
 Definatly a learning process. 
  
  This is a party based RPG. Through out the game you accquire party members of various classes. 
 Each individual is unique with his or her own background story, voice, and skills ect ect. You 
 can use 4 characters per party and the rest wait in your given residance. It seems very charming 
 and classic to have a cast of characters at your beck and call, to mix and match your party set 
 up. For this game does indeed need balance. I found that youl need a caster, powerful melee and 
 a rogue to pick locks and use his social talents for quests and such. That even adds more to the 
 variety of levling your part, self and customizing your group. Theres many many things you can 
 do, and many you cant. Social talents for side quest rewards and execution, profession traits for 
 creating weapons and potions. Lores for identifying magic items, healing wounds and cureing poisons. 
 All upgradeable via xp points.
  
  The story starts with your made character, the protaginist in avestrue (sp?) You are to get to 
 ferdok city to visit your friend Aldo inwhich you are submerged into a string of murders that reveal 
 your destiny as a dragon slayer. The oracle chooses you to collect the dragon armor and protect 
 the adamantine heart from the ones ending the world. As I said this games main purpous in my opinion 
 is the story telling.
  
  There is alot , ALOT of text. Theres tons of useless and boring dialogue slowing the games flow. 
 There is a fair amount of voice acting but not all of it. The game would be very immersive if the 
 entire dialogue was done in voice. 
  Youl find your self clicking the text to skip all the junk and get right to the meat of the story. 
 But there is alot of problem solving to do.
  
  This style of rpg has a very good use to these problem solving methods. Such as using social talents 
 and picking locks, curing a certain ailment ect. But it all seems so half assed to the point of 
 uselessness. If your an impatiant person then this game is definatly not for you.
  
  The combat and control. Basic click and go. In this lovely 3D environment it can be tedious on 
 wher you can and cant go. Its very very linear... You cant free roam like in some RPGs. So you might 
 be getting frusterating clicking somewher or finding a path. Its also very very time consuming 
 to cross an entire map via clicks. 
  The combat is click to kill. Use your combat skills that drain endurance, and spells that drain 
 AE... astral energy. Further down the game more battles require strategy involving picking off one 
 by one, saveing your skills for another and debuffing with spells. 
  
  The difficulty can jump from boringly easy, to stupidly hard. So save often and be ready to strategize 
 whenever you can. The boss fights range from giant spiders, rats, thief bosses to ogres, to dragons 
 and are very entertaining. Theyre well don in terms with strategy and visual appeal. The skirmishes 
 are fun. Your party takeing on 9 10 spiders at once pre setting your skills.
  
  But thats also the trouble with this game. There is barely anything to fight outside of quests. 
 It seems like the only thing you can find to fight is during a dungeon crawl or sweeping through 
 a dwarfs storage room of evil bugs. The action is indeed lacking and wracking up for levels and 
 loot is non existent. Thats why point spending is important.
  
  Another problem is the loot. The only thing that appears to be of mirth is from the merchants and 
 quest rewards. And even those run out. Picking locked chests seldomly has a rare peice of unidentified 
 magic jewelry or a powerful weapon. There arent any special gear that you can hunt for. Lots of 
 useless and wasted options makeing you feel empty. For instance the dagger trait. Dont waste points 
 on dagger use because there simply ISNT a decent dagger in the game. Same goes for swords. The 
 gear category in this game falters to almost ridiculousy. Buy the best armor and divy it out with 
 the rest of your team, its a balanceing act. Its a very limited aspect when it could be adding 
 amazing depth to the game.
  
  Graphics now. The graphics are top knotch. Very detailed and smooth even on a decent computer. 
 The evironment is lush and the atmosphere rememberable. Although the caves and mines tend to be 
 identicle but the maps and castled details are remarkable. The fire falls has some very good visual 
 effects of smoke steam fire blur and blaze whisps. Great looking water and shrubery. It reminds 
 me of lord of the rings online. Almost up to that level.
  
  I mentiond that this game is very linear and geared towards story. Thus in the equation all these 
 great RPG aspects seem almost wasted. Like once your done with a level of a map , you cannot return 
 ever. If you missed something and have an uncompleted quest it is lost forever. If at the end of 
 the game and enter the stage, and save it.. thats it. You could be unprepared or just feel like 
 seeing other things and you cant. Thats a huge dissapointment. Once enemies are defeated they dont 
 return for further XPing, or if you end up loseing money. 
  
  There is indeed a fun factor. Thats with these RPG elemants. The cmbat is unique and gripping but 
 the games linear method holds it back so much. Its a great game that could be one of the best. 
 Compelling story with addicting characters, great visuals in spells and atmosphere. A robust , 
 various leveling system. Variety is the spice of life. I use that term whole heartedly. 
  
  I highly recomend this game if they like fantasy strategic character building classic RPGs. But 
 for the impatiant , high expectative person that dislikes complexity. Your probably not going to 
 enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpetree
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 8:16 am PT
Review:  Not being familiar with the German pen and paper game "The Dark Eye" this was based off of, I didn't 
 have a lot of first hand knowledge on the lands of Aventuria. 
  
  The ability to harvest herbs and parts to create your own weapons, armor, alchemy, etc. was a great 
 addition. I would compare these game details to Sir-Tech's 1994 release of Realms of Arkania: Star 
 Trail, which is a very strange irony, because I just learned that the Realms of Arkania were also 
 based on The Dark Eye universe. Other than The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, I don't know of an RPG 
 that lets you harvest plants and actually use them. You can also harvest items from the animals 
 and creatures you defeat, IF your skill is high enough. 
  
  Visually, this game is excellent! My biggest pet peeve of games is the distant horizon, which just 
 seems to fade away into the abyss. This game has a very photo-realistic horizon, which adds greatly 
 to the setting. You can pause combat and change weapons, heal, etc., which is a great feature and 
 adds a lot of strategy. 
  
  You can control your character's advancement in very great detail and you don't have to wait to 
 'level up'. You can spend your adventure/experience points as you earn them. 
  
  For the RPG lovers, this game is a MUST own. Enjoy, I have to get back to Ferdock and continue 
 my own adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladinjedi
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:11 am PT
Review:  It seems it's quite a trick nowadays to make a really good Rpg...
  
  Drakensang comes like this:
  
  1. Graphics -10 (splendid, great... although you can't play 
 a game for graphics only...)
  
  2. Story concept - 7 (decent)
  
  3. Atmosphere - 10 ( highly immersive)
  
  4. Dialogue system - 3 (inadmissible for a 2009 game 
 to have such a truncated, poor dialogue system... Are actors that expensive?!?... People, you could 
 just do your job - ALL VOICES - with a man and a woman only!!! Who doesn't like the voices could 
 simply turn them off... They don't exist from the start anyway...)
  
  5. Gameplay - 5 (unsatisfactory; NWN clone, with same oldl sloppy, dizzy, delaying moves...)
 
  
  6. Difficulty - 1 (many get fooled by the first chapter who is playable; the true insensitiveness 
 comes when you get to the city; just imagine: you have a party of four heroes, all equiped and 
 leveled up appropriately and one single big white rat finishes you in an eyeblink without the quadro 
 being able to at least drain 1/4 of his health!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!...)
  
  Conclusion: A score of 6. If it weren't for the unaccountable difficulty level and the paused/pen&paper 
 theatrical , unrealistic combat, this might have been the best (most complete from all points of 
 view) realized Rpg from Gothic 2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyranasaurus
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  It seems reviewing sites only really like reviewing games that are either innovative , groundbreaking 
 or cost alot on money to make , which are normally games that dont run very well on anyone's computer 
 properly and have the worse acting dialogue ever, great premise, bad storyline and runs atrociously 
 as usual for big budget rpg games. (Fallout 3) .
  
  This game Drakensang is actually really simply done, (I recommend turning off the voice acting 
 and reading it to get a better experience, I would also recommend turning off Voice acting in Fallout 
 3 also because its atrocious.)
  So the rant is out of the way , now its time to get to the game, ill be brief.
  
  Graphics 
 :  The Witcher graphics would be as a good comparison. Cartoony and a very bright colour palette, 
 and is very nice to look at. The lighting is bright and enticing and does its job well. The graphics 
 of the people are a little like Conan and arent anything like Crysis but look great all the same. 
 Heaps of insects and little fire flys cover the screen and dust flies around and looks great.
 
  
  Performance :  RUNS Flawlessly on XP, 2 GB Ram, Intel core 2 Duo 2.66 or higher , And a 8800gts 
 512mb. FLAWLESSLY , no glitches , no hangs , nothing just smooth as. Why small budget games seem 
 to make really smooth running games like this and massive budget games like Fallout 3 and Crysis 
 are glitchy as hell is beyond me.
  
  Gameplay :  A mix between final fantasy tactics and the witcher, excellent gameplay for fighting. 
 I really like that kind of gameplay though, where you can stop the battle and make decisions. The 
 fighting looks fantastic. The strategies are very simply done , its not a tactical masterpeice 
 by any meens, but you choose a guy or character, point to where you want him to attack. You can 
 use special attacks that you learn as you go along and each character has thier own abilities. 
 That you can assign to hot keys. Simple, effective and does the job. And looks fine. The quests 
 are rpg like quests that have been done by every rpg game maker out there, go do this , go do that. 
 Follow the storyline and do alot of sidequests, in large cities or in the forests or in little 
 villages. Lots of exploration and lots of linear stuff also. You are given loaded areas that you 
 can explore like the witcher. Its not far flung like Fallout 3 where you can just go anywhere. 
 But then again games like Fallout 3 you dont want to go just anywhere until your tough enough anyway 
 or you die, so you end up staying in certain areas for long periods of Fallout 3 anyway. 
  
  Character development :  OLD SCHOOL , YAY. I really warm to this type of development in RPG's, 
 its not all spelled out for you like Fallout 3 or Oblivian. You have to make wise decisions to 
 make you character grow in certain areas. You get Adventure points to grow into new levels and 
 you get Experience points that you can use to develop individual skills , like points EP to your 
 sword arm or axes and maces etc, or 20 points to healing or 20 points to bows and arrows. Then 
 as the game progesses you obviously get tougher and tougher as time goes on. There is a slight 
 learning curve at the start but once your use to it, (Like The Witcher) You get the hang of it 
 eventually after about 30 minutes into the game. Make sure you group your characters together also 
 so you keep them together while your walking everywhere. Its not like Fallout 3 where you can just 
 get tough as with everything you have to really hone in on certain skills for different characters 
 so they get better at certain things, not just everything all at once.
  
  Lasting appeal :  It is a large game , so by the time you finish it , it would be a long time anyway, 
 not many games make you want to come back for more after the first play through. And this probably 
 wont be any different in that regard. However to get to the end will take a very long time at least 
 80+ hours which is huge anyway.
  
  This game is a very tried and true game style, yes there are wizards, yes there are dwarves, yes 
 there are humans , so yes you have seen alot of that dynamic before, but DONT read the IGN reviews 
 and go by those alone, play it for half an hour and its a great rpg. Its runs smooth as, and is 
 alot of fun. And most of the reviews were just looking for things to pick at. The storyline itself 
 is as epic as any other rpg (Including Fallout 3) Which had a crap storyline (go find your father, 
 that was the only storyline in Fallout 3, the premise made you think the storyline was bigger but 
 it wasnt) , just the graphics and scale of objects are obviously a little more ol' school rpg like 
 in Drakensang Graphically, but still looks fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaden524
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:24 am PT
Review:  The graphics are amazing in this title, the lighting effects are astounding, and the scenery within 
 each area is what other games of this type strive for. The camera takes a while to get used to, 
 and the leveling process is a bit odd, but at least you get to modify your skills like you want. 
 On the downside, once you leave an area, you permanently leave it and can't go back, so any quests 
 not completed are gone. The characters are rendered very well, but the magic effects leave a bit 
 to be desired upon execution. I've played pen and paper games (Dungeons and Dragons, Paladium Role 
 Playing, Call of the Cthulhu) as well as the adaptations of D&D (Baldur's Gate, Icewind Dale, Curse 
 of the Azure Bonds, Neverwinter Nights 1&2) , and none of them, even the newer ones, have achieved 
 any where near as much as this title has in all departments. This games is not only a hell of a 
 worthy purchase, but worth replaying over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vyper_X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 12:15 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up unfamiliar with the Drakensang universe. From what I understand it is basically 
 the german version of D&D. That said, Drakensang is a very deep game, rich with lore and potential. 
 Playing this game has catapulted me back to the days of Balders gate, leaving me completely engrossed 
 in the city and characters.
  
  Drakensang uses a real time combat system similar to D&D except that you are rolling low instead 
 of high (as in D&D) . Each combat round includes an attack roll and a parry roll, spell casting and 
 special abilities have "round counts" (the number of combat rounds needed to cast or execute and 
 ability) .
  
  You get to choose from a whopping 20 character classes when you start the game, with option of 
 going into expert mode to tweak each stat individually. It took me a while to get used to the system, 
 but all of the attributes and ablities are well documented and include their formulas. There are 
 over 100 skills and abilities to train tweak and learn, including a robust crafting system including 
 Bowyer, Blacksmithing and Alchemy. 
  
  Characters are extremely open ended and aside from race specific abilities most characters can 
 learn almost any skill (there are some exceptions of course, Melee characters cant learn spells 
 for example) . My first character (a necromancer) has trained lockpicking and trap disarm, as well 
 as healing and poison removal spells.
  
  The NPCs and characters in Drakensang are a delight to interact with. I personally have a passionate 
 hatred for dwarves in all games, until now, Drakensang has proven dwarfs are not just one dimensional 
 alcholic rock biters, and can actually have varying personalities and intrests.
  
  There are a few downsides, but they are easily overlooked by the depth and richness of the Drakensang 
 world. Early on, the camera control can feel awkward and clunky but you find later that it makes 
 sense (once you are running with a full party) . The game so far is almost completely bug free and 
 I think almost all issues will come down to camera and controls, which have a slightly steeper 
 than usual learning curve, but once mastered make perfect sense.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epox1130
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  It's basically your cookie cutter rpg, but there's a lot of fun to be had. There are some interesting 
 classes and the addition of social penalties is welcomed. The attack/parrying fight style is a 
 bit slow but i like the ability to pause the action to strategize.
  
  
  It's basically your cookie cutter rpg, but there's a lot of fun to be had. There are some interesting 
 classes and the addition of social penalties is welcomed. The attack/parrying fight style is a 
 bit slow but i like the ability to pause the action to strategize.
  
  
  
  It's basically your cookie cutter rpg, but there's a lot of fun to be had. There are some interesting 
 classes and the addition of social penalties is welcomed. The attack/parrying fight style is a 
 bit slow but i like the ability to pause the action to strategize. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GattsTaichou
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 10:13 am PT
Review:  And so it is Drakensang - The Dark Eye [or Das Schwarze Auge in original] .
  
  We all know what this game is about, don't we? Every RPG fan played Realms or Arkania or at least 
 heard of it. I am sure there those out there who have actually played the original Pen & Paper 
 game too.
  
  As I remember Realms of Arkania 1-3, they seemed a bit difficult for me at that time, but it was 
 worth playing with. It was something that got a hold of you and did not let go. 
  
  Anyway - a great many years have passed since Shadows over Riva [Realms of Arkania 3] and finally 
 we have... well RoA 4 or Drakensang.
  
  The great thing is that it is still the very same concept, in the same Fantasy world. An Old-school 
 Role-playing Game dressed for 2009.
  
  Ok, maybe I am exaggerating. The graphics are certainly good, but not great. There are a lot of 
 small details however that make you forgive the developers that game does not use Cryengine.
  The cats, chickens, pigs walking around freely... fireflies and flies everywhere - dust dancing 
 in rays of sunlight in dark halls and caves. All these small things make the game look pretty much 
 alive.
  
  Sounds are OK, though nothing special. Characters and NPCs do not talk as much as they do in other 
 recent RPGs. That does not mean there is no dialogue - it just means you have to read a lot.
  
  The game-play is nothing new to RPG fans, and is well-known to Realms of Arkania lovers. For 
 the D&D guys however it will take a little getting used to.
  
  Aventuria is not as magical as most D&D worlds are. Magical things are not as powerful and you 
 certainly don't bump into any of them around the corner.
  
  There are a lot of smaller side-quests in the game, and more than enough playable NPCs to choose 
 your party from, that are willing to join you through your adventure.
  
  I found the game itself still a bit challenging, so be sure to choose wisely what character you 
 start [Human, Elf, Dwarf - Fighter, Spleccaster or Rogue type...] , and which NPCs you are taking 
 for a spin. I found that everything you can use [forge, brew, conjure] is worth using if you want 
 to be successful.
  
  I would lie if I told you that I am through the game. I have played the demo and I have played 
 the full game for quite some time now... It seems I only have the last of the 3 dragon quests [not 
 to mention side-quests] before me, and the game will end soon. [My party is level 9-10 and my main 
 character is an anvildwarf] At least that is what I think now :)
  
  I will definitely try it once again after a month or so, with a different type of career - just 
 because it is so interesting and so much fun.
  
  All in all, I enjoy it very much. Looking forward to the coming sequel... And I would definitely 
 recommend the game to anyone willing to spend some quality time playing an RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbishop
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 9:42 am PT
Review:  DRAKENSANG is one of the most buetiful rpgs I have ever played. The highly detailed world looks 
 like something out of a mix of classical and fantasy art with excellent framerates which never 
 made my computer slow down. Alot of great humour is to be found as one travels the countryside 
 meeting the many people of the land which have useful advice. Many times one can over hear interesting 
 gossip of what is going on which can lead to new quests. Journal system is great as is the intuitive 
 interface which has everything on screen in front of you just a click away to perform an action 
 or go into another menu. This along with plenty of popup tips as to what each icon does makes learning 
 the ins and outs of DRAKENSANG very easy.
  
  Sound effects and voices are well done and really bring the world and its inhabitants to life with 
 character. The buetiful music fits in with the colourful world and enhances the mood well.
  
  Npc and creature models are extremely detailed with plenty of rpg sensuality and frights. Due 
 to everything looking so great it also brings out the only real weakness of the game which is its 
 combat animations which feel a bit stiff and not as detailed in showing the after effects of combat 
 with a just about bloodless visual quality. One does get used to it quick enough though due to 
 the incredible detail of models delievering on the graphical treats. I just wish it was more bloody 
 and visceral. Perhaps more of a personal preferance then a real complaint.
  
  Sum total is a great hardcore rpg with a buetiful interface which allows newcomers to get into 
 the meat of the game world in a very satisfying intuitive way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownba3
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 12:58 pm PT
Review:  A refreshing breath of a recycled but successful strategy. Another good RPG from a different country 
 and language - Thank you Russia and Germany. (this doesn't have the translation problems witcher 
 did and the fighting sequences are a little easier - point and click.) Hmm, dragons, swords, elves, 
 orcs, and goblins and dungeon crawling. With all of the online and MMOGs out there, it was nice 
 to get a well crafted single player - and for only 29.99 as well! Great price - for what has been 
 about 40 hours or so - so far. A somewhat limited character system - evidently you need to be on 
 expert level to truly craft your character - and I still haven't been able to get it to work... 
 and a different set of rules (Not D&D 2,3,4,4.5,17...) - which aren't quite as easy to comprehend 
 - or at least ot my D&D biased mind... and all that being said, I am still about 1/2 through - but 
 am enjoying it. Somewhat of a linear plot - but with various sidequests - no Oblivion sandbox here 
 - but true to the RPG'ing style. Build a party, develop them how you want them... with the costs 
 and benefits and go get them. Love the part where previous actions and life of the characters comes 
 back to haunt them - one of your thieves was a bad boy and when he returned to the place of his 
 badness, he got popped in jail. Characterization (sp?) is interesting - wish I understood the rolls/tradeoffs 
 a little better - will do my research for the next play through. You can improve your character's 
 minor skills or their physical skill numbers - which affects those minor skills - not sure which 
 gives you more bang for the point. Nice thing is you can do it on the run - as you accumulate experience 
 points, you can use them to improve your character then, not wait until you level up. Just like 
 D&D, major skills cost more and levels cost more as you go higher. Is a little difficult to level 
 up - exp points and money aren't handed out freely - and interestingly enough (like D&D) - after 
 a certain level (or size/levels of your group) you don't get exp for the easy kills - unfortunately. 
 
  Great graphics, grass and leaves blowing, people walking, talking... - some good models - voice 
 acting is sometimes a little over the top (the whiny boyfriend begging forgiveness...) - and just 
 text for the non essential characters (without a quest) . Some quirky humor thrown in. Some of the 
 mechanics are a little clunky in certain areas and intuitive in others - When talking with characters, 
 you are given different options based on different group member strengths... but when doing an 
 action (pickpocket, blacksmith, lockpick, etc) it doesn't recognize/use the most likely or talented 
 individual. You also don't get exp for doing any of those things (and practice does make perfect) 
 - so crafting or lockpicking gets you nothing. 
  Mapping and travel is a little clunky as well. On the world map it works relatively well and quickly 
 - like the old Fallout - dropping back into the normal map for the interaction and then back to 
 the world map at the edge of the tile. Traveling in the city or local is slow and doesn't seem 
 to serve any purpose. (are able to travel to the various places from your house in the city, but 
 not back...)
  Haven't finished - so can't write a complete one but will update this later. Found one exp glitch, 
 and have searched the forums for hints or explanations of various problems - which shows I'm not 
 alone. Interesting - no cheats or walk thrus yet- and I had to order this on line (ebay) because 
 my local game shop didn't carry it. That being said this is a fun throwback which is helping kill 
 the void between finishing Fallout 3 and waiting for Dragon Age... Game on and until then, make 
 mine Marvel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longtimegamerr
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:21 am PT
Review:  First, I'm very impressed with the stability of the game. I'm running with all effects enabled 
 and hi-res texture pack at 1920 lines on a nothing special PC with a geforce 9800GT and I'm getting 
 a flawless 30+ fps. No crashing.
  
  The graphics engine deserves praise. It doesnt go nuts with "normal mapping" effects like Fallout 
 3 or Oblivion. In those games, everything looks way too shiny and plastic. Instead there's some 
 real attention to details in the bitmaps in Drakensang. Every individual texture looks crafted, 
 from clothes to environment objects. There are also some nice volumetric haze effects. Over all 
 its is a beautifully and artfully designed world. Give this game a video card with 512 MB's of 
 RAM, and it really looks great.
  
  Gameplay initially requires some getting used to because you got lots of RPG character attributes 
 that dont sound immediately familiar if you've played other CRPG's. But there's plenty of on-line 
 help by right clicking on anything in the character screens. 
  
  Soon you'll have a few other characters on your team and you'll be involved in fights. The combat 
 system is good though it is somewhat reminiscent of "world of warcraft" combat interface. You've 
 got combat moves on timers and you click on the icons when they are ready. Thankfully you can pause 
 at any time with the space bar if you want to re-assess a fight and position your team differently. 
 And happily, you can take over the fighting of any character on your team. Over all, this combat 
 system is fine, though a part of me wishes for one character (like we had with Gothic 2) . Controlling 
 one character on a team while the AI handles the others is kinda lame from an RPG perspective. 
 I want control over everything in a CRPG. In any game, the computer AI seldom works the way I want 
 it to. Drankensang is going to make you play with the AI whether you want it or not. 
  
  The weakness of the game is that it got the visual atmosphere perfectly, and many many of the quests 
 are fun, but the over all story line is generic. And many of the characters you meet are pretty 
 generic too. I'm only 10 hours in the game so I might change my opinion. So far though, this game 
 is a must play if you like crpg's. It certainly beats the recent Two Worlds. if you are unsure 
 before buying, wait for a demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablotheruler
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:06 am PT
Review:  This game came on my desk when i was playing Neverwinter Nights for the second time. So i wanted 
 to try something different (same style) .
  Till now, i really enjoy playing this game. 
  
  The first thing that made me play it was because of it's publisher: THQ.
  
  Some critics said 
 the graphics are great, with a lot of details. I say that for february 09, there is nothing special 
 about them, maybe the posterior part of the character "Rogue" (in the cemetery) .
  
  The storyline ! Well made, quite funny (not like Neverwinter) , well balanced so it can make you 
 stay and play for some long hours, but i get the felling that i already played some of the quests 
 in other games. (Helping merchants, kill some undead zombies, etc) .
  
  The characters along with their attributes, skills and inventory looks really complex and difficult, 
 but the user will learn them in the first couple of hours. Maybe more types of items would have 
 created more opportunities to create a special character.
  
  Per all, i like this game because it has an european air around it (like Gothic) , and i am waiting 
 for a sequel.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madari
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  Its nice to have a true party based rpg for the PC. This type of game is missing in action these 
 days. The graphics are great and it seems to have a lot of depth. The ability to tweak your party 
 members and build your own band of adventurer's is intriguing. Looking forward to many hours of 
 enjoyment. The combat is enjoyable and not overly complicated and the ability to pause and manage 
 your party during combat gives you the feeling of actually controlling the battle. The crafting 
 aspect is also welcome and actually seems to be useful not just tacked on. So far the story is 
 building nicely and haven't had anywhat am suppose to be doing moments". I recommend this game 
 if your a fan of rpg's this is classic, well presented and fun. So far it has been bug (crash) 
 free which says alot. It appears that a lot love went into this game and this is a well developed 
 world and game system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gragnak
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:16 am PT
Review:  Some big gamemaker could learn a lot from this game.
  For old real rpgers this party based game will be a fresh shower.
  
  GRAPHICS: good. Not the 
 edge but just right for this game and the atmosphere it creates.
  SOUND: good. The music is really fine and the effects are well made. No spoken dialogues but it 
 was a budget choice of the gamehouse.
  GAME: party based! And you can control every member of your party. Combat can be paused and you 
 can set to auto pause at the end of each combat turn. Stat heavy.... yes! you have to read the 
 manual, think about each skill you'll choose, if you want to build a well balanced party. Magic 
 weapon and gear is rare and you have to work hard to obtain it (or gain the money to buy it) .
 
  
  This game could be even better but it's really a good start. Colsed adevtnure areas at the end 
 of each chapter aren't a good idea but the story is well developed and you are encouraged to explore 
 every place tasting all those good little details.
  
  Good, good, good! (the price too!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garnog
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, this game caught me completely off guard. Who'd have guessed that a European game 
 developer could release a beautiful, compelling single player RPG, especially after the bitter 
 disappointment of Gothic 3. Never mind the nag-ative reviews, this game was RPG of the Year in 
 Germany, and it's easy to see why. For those who don't like reading, how the hell did you make 
 it through Morrowind or Oblivion??! Sure, there are some nit picks, like the combat system resembling 
 WOW ( which I NEVER want to mention again) and lack of in depth character customization (a la Oblivion) 
 but these petty gripes will be quickly forgotten as you gaze in wonder at the gorgeous panoramic 
 vista spread at your feet! Truly, even the vaunted Oblivion cannot diminish the astounding beauty 
 of the outdoor levels, and I have to say this; even the dreaded and ubiquitous 'sewer levels' had 
 a certain charm, and I HATE sewer levels! Once you gain access to your residence in the city, take 
 the time to wander through the halls and appreciate the details like doilies on the wood seats, 
 paintings on the walls, beautiful woodwork etc. Definitely install the high res textures if your 
 system can handle it... it really makes everything come alive. Anyone passing on this game due to 
 a gnarly review is doing him/herself a grave disservice and will make your inner child weep bitter 
 tears. OK... NOW I GO PLAY SOME MORE!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linnx88
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  The moment I got this game I was absolutely hooked. This is like a MMORPG but without annoying 
 kids and having to wait for raids. The game is gorgeous with realistic Medieval European settings. 
 Exciting, completely customizable classes. Tons of options. Complex system of RPG rules a la D&D2.
 
  
  The biggest negative is that the game does NOT come with a manual if you buy it from D2D or GamersGate. 
 I've read many posts on dtp entertainment website about this. This makes it very aggravating not 
 understanding a lot of the things in this game. It's like playing D&D2 without knowing any of the 
 rules and having to learn them as you play along.
  
  They did promise to upload the manual in the upcoming couple of days, so I hope they do. Even without 
 it, this is the most addictive RPG I've played since BG2 or Planescape.
  
  The new high res pack they included, makes the world look better then Everquest 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stan42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 11:24 am PT
Review:  In short:
  
  + Great atmosphere, gameworld and characters
  + Fun and challenging gameplay
  + Memorable encounters
  
  - Long and boring dialogue
  - 
 Wierd leveling system
  - Your own character is pretty boring
  
  In long:
  
  Based on the most popular German pen-and-paper RPG it's not suprising that Drakensang is very similar 
 to Neverwinter Nights 2 and it's modules. However it comes off as superior in almost every aspect, 
 offering a long and fun RPG experience.
  
  Graphics-wise Drakensang not only looks better than NWN2, most importantly it runs perfectly smooth 
 on the average system. The game clearly differs from the "realistic" visuals of the recent "Lord 
 of the Rings" or "Neverwinter" games, opting for a more "cartoony" presentation by combining exaggerated 
 characters and clothing with colorbook-like settings.
  
  The whole game world itself is beautifully done with varied settings, from pleasant countrysides 
 over dark forests to the lively capitol (And of course no RPG would be complete without dungeon-crawls) . 
 The areas are huge which on the one hand put the 3-5 second loading times far apart, on the otherhand 
 you'll often find yourself walking great distances. The only exception is the main city, Ferdok, 
 itself. Doing quests in the city will have you wandering around and encountering, due to the city 
 being divided into half a dozen "loading areas", the loading screen several times. There's also 
 the overland map when travelling large distances.
  
  A big plus goes to the great and memorable "boss" encounters. From fighting a living tree to descending 
 deep underground into a rats nest to find a giant mother rat. The encounters are all very satifying 
 and challenging enough to punish a forgotten quicksave .
  
  There are however some shortcomings. First of all there is practically no character customisation. 
 You get to choose your name, gender and class. The races (and some genders) are connected to your 
 class. Even skill point distribution is limited. This coupled with the fact that there are also 
 very limited choices in quests and dialogue (good-evil paths) makes your character very shallow 
 and boring. Much in contrast to your very sympathetic companions.
  
  Secondly, there is simply too much boring and needless dialogue. It doesn't help either that only 
 the first dialogue screen is voiced. So unless you want to read a game instead of play it, you'll 
 often just click through dozens of dialogues, maybe even missing a vital piece of information. 
 But after posting this on the forums this may or may not be a negative aspect and it all depends 
 on if the user welcomes loads of pages of unimportant (to the main plot) information that detail 
 the backstory.
  
  I don't want to go into the voice-acting and silly dialogue since I'm playing the German version, 
 but I can go on to say that the soundtrack does it's job. In fact I think it's excellent because 
 it's mediocre and varied. Therefore there are no moments of silence and you don't have a certain 
 tune in your head after playing for several hours in a row.
  
  Third, the game has a really wierd leveling system. Basically, there are 3 ways to spend your XP. 
 A. increase an attribute (costing alot of XP) B. increase a skill (costing little XP) or C. learn 
 an ability (needing a trainer and costing moderate XP and gold) . This takes some time to get used 
 to.
  
  The gameplay itself offers an interesting main quest with enough side quests to keep you busy for 
 hundreds of hours. Combat is pretty much like in Neverwinter Nights 2, in that it's party-base 
 with the ability to pause now and then. For special abilities your character and companions use 
 mana or energy pretty much like in WoW.
  
  Bottom line: If possible I'd give this game an 8.75. It's better than 8.5 but doesn't have that 
 extra *umpf* for my seldomly given 9.0. It's good enough to recommend to any player and a must 
 have for RPG players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrf101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I like Drakensang. It doesn't do anything amazingly well but does almost everything just about 
 right. What's more I can't believe they only charge $30 for a game that could has the production 
 values of a $50 title. It's quite the bargain!
  
  It's a hardcore RPG with lots of stats and skills, graphix are almost as good as Far Cry 2 (which 
 is to say, not absolute cutting-edge but still pretty darn good) and it runs smooth as silk on 
 my Q6600 w/3 gigs RAM and GTX8800.
  
  The best part I think is the story. Drakensang actually has a story that is not cliche. What's 
 more, the game makes a concerted effort to develope the story and immerse the player in another 
 world. It revolves around a string of ritualistic murders in a town you've been summoned to by 
 a friend seeking help. There's a good mix of combat, crafting, and character interaction. Quests 
 are varied and interesting. 
  
  There is a bit of campiness and light-hearted feel to the story (not that it doesn't have it's 
 darker elements as well) , however this along with the stats and dialogue system merely gives Drakensang 
 an old-school feel which I quite like, since I've been playing RPGs for 20+ years (I played the 
 original Wizardry when it first came out. Same with Bard's tale.) The story isn't as unique or 
 innovative as that of, say, The Witcher, but at least it's not another "you are the chosen one 
 to save the world and fulfill the prophesy" story. There's also an attempt to give some life and 
 depth to the characters through occassional in-game cutscenes, which usually occur in the course 
 of dialogue interactions.
  
  I suppose the biggest downpoint of Drakensang is the camera is sometimes problematic. Trees and 
 other foliage often get in the way and obscure enemies, which can make targeting difficult enough 
 to be occasionally annoying. This is especially a problem when using ranged fighters in a forest.
 
  
  The voice-acting is also pretty cheesy. I like it since the characters are played with over-the-top 
 gusto, but this of course won't appeal to everyone. 
  
  When compared to an RPG classic such as Oblivion, the world is not quite as virtually immersive 
 (you can't enter many buildings, for example, and the story is much more linear than Oblivion's 
 go anywhere, do anything world) but the story is also more fleshed out.
  
  Casual players may be a bit intimidated by the plethora of skills and stats, but the bottom line 
 is any hardcore RPG lover will really dig this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorenf31
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 6:51 am PT
Review:  While Drakensang offers nothing revolutionary or ground-breaking, it does offer a refreshing return 
 to some good old fashioned roleplaying action with all the stats and character tweaking you could 
 want.
  
  The gameplay seems smooth, the graphics are decent and most important the game appears stable (I 
 have had no major crashes) .
  
  If I had any complaints, there would be two... the weapon damage system seems a bit confusing as 
 it contains multiple values based upon damage, parry and attack values (at least I think that is 
 correct) and while there is some recorded dialogue there is quite a bit that isn't. 
  
  I could also say that romance storylines would be nice (call me a sucker but I love that in Bioware 
 games) but that appears to be missing - though can't really mark them down for that.
  
  Overall an excellent buy for anyone looking for a good crpg, especially in this slow release time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Drakensang is better than NWN2 in most aspects: graphics, sounds, storyline. But like the latter 
 it is very linear and therefore no match for my cuurent (08.08) favourite Oblivion. 
  
  So there is no open, seamless world - but at least the areas are designed with great love and detail. 
 Do not expect spectaculare changes in weather or daytime: there is 1 weather / time per area. 
 
  
  Most areas are "closed" once you finish the majority of missions there and leave them - why? 
 
  
  Another important question is, why there is no English localization out yet - the non-German-speaking 
 part of the world misses the hype. 
  
  In spite of these drawbacks the fighting system and especially the DSA-adaption are worthwile. 
 Expect long lasting tactical battles (the tougher ones best fought out in turnbaed-mode) , good 
 music and a nice and very old-school story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigOne1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  I'll compare this game to NWN2 because they are similar in nature. 
  
  Both games are graphically great. 
  
  The differences come in the character customization and 
 the way the NPCs and the story are handled. 
  
  Character customizaton is limited and kinds disappointing. You have about a dozen characters to 
 choose from. This sounds like a lot but most of those characters are similar and there are no class/race 
 based special abilities. My favorite class in NWN2 was the monk. Some of his special abillities 
 were immunity to poison, illness and mindcontrol, super fast reflexes... In Drakensang every character 
 can learn every special ability. You can have a mage learn every piece of fancy swordplay you want. 
 The difference in the classes are just the startvalues and some caps (You can't increase muscle 
 over a certain point for a mage...) . This highly reduces replay value. The classes all feel the 
 same. And you have no influence on what your characters look like.
  
  The seond drawback is the dialog. It's boring. For those who know NWN2, thing about Sand's little 
 moments (A character who in a court trial finished his pladoyer with "And above that I want to 
 say that the dress of the lawyer of the other party makes her look like a whore in the dock district") 
 or some of the other funny stuff ("You look beautiful, would you like to keep me warm in my bed 
 at night?"-"I could set it on fire!") . In Drakensang, the only thing that is similar are the conversations 
 between two of you characters in you mansion. But even those are not really funny.
  
  Overall it's a game that could have been great but isn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elikal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  I played the German Version of Drakensang now for about 10 hours, and I love it. It really matches 
 up to any given RPG of a similar genre, and does not have to hide behind games like NWN2 or the 
 like.
  
  The game has stunning landscapes and cities and catches by the great atmosphere, storytelling and 
 detail richness. What you don't have to expect is some fast rush-through game like Diablo or something 
 packed with tons of uber loot like WOW. Drakensang's "The Dark Eye" world is most similar to Faerhun 
 from D&D, a classic fantasy world, where you take your time with the world, the story and where 
 you are not buried in tons of flaming swords, uber shoulder pieces and such hilarious stuff in 
 every second drop. It has all the classic RPG virtues with great characters and detailled character 
 development, story richness and a world worth to get familiar with.
  
  I can only fully recommend it to anyone who loves RPG games and wish you the English version to 
 come soon. ;) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
