-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Drakan: Order of the Flame
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/drakanorderoftheflame/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 30, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 319 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Psygnosis
Developer: Surreal Software
Genre: Action
Date:     Jul 14, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Drakan is clearly one of the better games in its class, even if it doesn't seem especially original. 
 

 Every self-respecting fantasy game has dragons, and nine times out of ten it's your job to slay 
 the evil things. But Drakan: Order of the Flame is one of those rarer occasions when the dragon 
 actually does your bidding. Drakan first comes across as a third-person action game like any other 
 in the quickly burgeoning genre, but you'll know this game is onto something early on, when lanky 
 redheaded heroine Rynn releases the kindly old dragon Arokh and takes to the skies on his back. 
 Add great graphics, mean monsters, deadly traps, and huge areas to explore both from the sky and 
 on foot, and you'll see that Drakan is clearly one of the better games in its class, even if it 
 doesn't seem especially original. After all, Rynn's just a medieval Lara Croft riding on your average 
 dragon. You won't remember Drakan for its characters, but you'll have fun playing it.  

 If the world of Drakan weren't filled with ill-tempered eight-foot tall pig men, acid-spitting bird-beasts, 
 and evil spirits, it would make a beautiful vacation spot. Rynn's adventures will take her from 
 snowy mountains to tropical islands and from ancient catacombs to dormant volcanoes. All these 
 settings are colorful and vividly detailed with realistic weather and lighting effects, and visibility 
 remains high except when you soar way up to see mountains suddenly appear on the horizon as you 
 fly by. Though most of them are your typical sword-and-sorcery fodder, the denizens that sully 
 these otherwise attractive locations are distinctively designed, from the menacing but oafish trolls 
 to the predictably seductive yet vaguely reptilian succubi. Rynn can literally hack them all to 
 bits with a huge variety of mundane and magical medieval weapons, though the greatest difference 
 among most of these is their appearance. And no matter how you slice your wicked foes, they die 
 in a wide variety of ways whose graphic violence helps make up for the fact that you'll face those 
 same bad guys again and again.  

 Surprisingly, it's Rynn herself who doesn't look so good compared with everything else, what with 
 her absurd Barbie-doll figure and her poker face. You get a lot of close-ups of her during in-engine 
 cinematics, but she doesn't come across as having much of a personality since her expression never 
 changes and her mouth never moves. In contrast, her dragon companion, although typically red and 
 reptilian, is more articulate and looks great from the tips of his leathery, semitransparent wings 
 right on down to his assorted elemental breath attacks. However, Drakan doesn't sound quite as 
 good as it looks, between its nondescript pseudo-symphonic soundtrack and its plain ambient effects. 
 Weak voice acting doesn't help either, but at least the hack-and-slash swordplay sounds just right. 

 More importantly, the hacking and slashing feels right. There's nothing unnecessarily complicated 
 about Drakan's control, which is best suited to a keyboard and mouse combination. You just run 
 or fly about, oftentimes in circles in the interest of using your superior speed to flank the enemy 
 and slash at or breathe on him. You can perform a few simple special moves on foot from rolls to 
 triple-slash combos, and these are enough - but only just enough - to make combat fairly interesting 
 rather than overly simplistic. Your enemies aren't especially bright and will occasionally get 
 stuck or ignore you completely, but usually you can expect a serious fight; brutish Wartoks use 
 their height and power to their advantage, while your smaller foes will duck and weave out of the 
 way. Airborne enemies do an even better job avoiding your attacks, but because Arokh's breath weapons 
 are so powerful, his flying foes don't pose much trouble except in large groups.  

 Combat in Drakan isn't especially remarkable either on land or in the sky, but the best thing about 
 the game is how you're able to transition between the two. You can take off and land at will, and 
 the game's open-ended level design often requires that you dismount in order to find a means for 
 Arokh to squeeze into the next area. Drakan's huge levels also contain a fair amount of puzzles 
 and traps, demanding that you think before you leap, or restore your saved game if you're reckless. 
 It's a shame that a few of these puzzles really fall flat and require twice as much luck as ingenuity, 
 though most of them provide an appropriate diversion from and contrast to all the fighting.  

 
 Drakan is challenging, fairly long, and enjoyable most of the way through. It relies a little too 
 heavily on its shallow story; its overwrought and boring dialogue take up too much time in between 
 the action. And the game has its share of technical problems, which are noticeable when Rynn occasionally 
 clips right through a wall and are most apparent in the unpolished multiplayer game, which wouldn't 
 be that much fun even if it worked since the action is so straightforward. The game's weak finale 
 doesn't help either. Even so, it's to Drakan's credit that it holds together in spite of these 
 issues. It's a great-looking game, it's easy and fun to play, and its levels are expansive and 
 nonlinear but designed in such a way that you'll rarely feel lost and consistently be impressed. 
 And if you think it's just a fancy Tomb Raider clone, then look no further than the dragon to understand 
 why such a label would be unfair, though it won't seem entirely inappropriate after a glance back 
 at Rynn.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Drakan is one of the first games I remember. Not from playing it myself, but from watching my Dad 
 play it when I was 9. I remembered a few snippets in my mind before I played it this week, so it 
 does hold a bit of the nostalgia factor for me, and thats the main reason I decided to play this 
 game. I'm left with a few thoughts, one of them being how shocking it is that my dad let me watch 
 him play this when I was 9, and another being how suprised I am that I actually enjoyed the game 
 enough to finish it.
  
  Not that I went into Drakan expecting a bad game, but i've always been in the mindset that its 
 NOT just graphics that evolve over time, and I truely believe that the average modern game is a 
 lot more fun than the recognised classics of the 90s. This means that usually when I play an old 
 game, I recognise its pros for the time it was released, but i'm spoiled by the advancements of 
 modern gaming and it doesn't hold my interest long enough. Drakan is actually a fairly unknown 
 game, but its mechanics, although basic, were fun enough to keep me going; and as much as I may 
 nitpick in the coming paragraphs, I mostly enjoyed it until the end, and it deserves commendation 
 for still being fun 9 years later to a Gears Of War era gamer like myself.
  
  The combat being basic keeps things simple and accessable, but it could still be better. The block 
 button is pretty useless, especially against the tougher enemies that start appearing a bit later 
 on. You'll get into a routine of attacking, running away, running back, attacking, repeat; until 
 the baddie falls. Its a bit repetitive. Rynn's flips and rolls dont help you either and are entirely 
 for show. Its actually a very challenging game, which isn't suprising because most games from the 
 last decade were extremely difficult (another thing i'm glad gaming has grown out of.) Its certainly 
 not as hard as some other old games though, and as long as you have some patience with it and work 
 out the best way to take out the bigger enemies it shouldn't be too frustrating to any seasoned 
 gamer.
  
  The combat is always fairly satisfying though, enemies can be gibbed and also have individual body 
 parts chopped off. Its actually very bloody, and despite the aged graphics I wouldn't recommend 
 playing this if you're squeamish. At one point a big giant i'd just killed was blocking my path 
 so I actually had to chop him up into little bits to get through. Combat while flying Arok, your 
 dragon, is by far the most entertaining, though. This is due partly to being able to set enemies 
 on fire, and shoot fireballs; and also because you're free to go anywhere in the air instead of 
 being restricted to the ground. You can engage in some very epic aerial fights with other dragons, 
 and also get around much quicker, and theres a great feeling of speed. The only thing that lets 
 it down somewhat is distance fogging, which is kind of overdone, and was scowled at even at the 
 time of its release.
  
  I didn't like how the game doesn't pause when you need to go into your inventory, I always hate 
 that in games, but its not a huge annoyance in Drakan because usually you'll not be in the middle 
 of a fight when you need to do it.
  
  Now, the voice acting... Oh my god. Not quite "House Of The Dead" bad, but certainly not far off. 
 Rynn sounds permanently clueless and amateurish, like they didn't want to pay a professional so 
 just used someone from the design team. All the other voices are equally terrible with not a single 
 good voice actor in the list. Luckilly you don't hear voices that much as generally you only run 
 into a cutscene every few hours. So its bearable. But bad voice acting is a big gripe of mine, 
 so it lost some points from me for that area.
  
  Drakan obviously attempts to give the sense of a big game world, but your travel is mostly linear. 
 There are a number of different environments though, which keeps things interesting.
  
  The story ISN'T very interesting though, and you'll not really care about it, or worry much about 
 paying attention to the cutscenes. The voice acting obviously doesn't help. The ending is bad too.
 
  
  Overall, Drakan can be pretty fun if you don't take it seriously, and is a game that can appeal 
 to any gamer, new or old, as long as you like action games. If you can find this somewhere cheap 
 you should pick it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 100Blondie001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I thought drakan was an awsome game one of the first ones i ever got. The story line to me was 
 original with Rynn village being destroyed, and in trying to find her brother she makes a contract 
 with a dragon, however both have their own quests, with Argon it being his past and with Rynn her 
 future. The combat in this game was to be expected with the year of its release, and with lacking 
 technology that we have today it was quite basic, but when it came out it was good! I especially 
 enjoyed the design of setting and characters/enemies in this game, but as I said before have been 
 outdated in comparison to nowaday releases but were still good. As the storyline progresses their 
 are no overious drops, and all things happening in the game were all related to the outcome of 
 finding Rynn's brother, so maybe as a improvement adding side quests to the game, however missing 
 these out may have been to the designers hope of creating a scence of irgancy in the storyline. 
 But all in all i thought this game was to me a classic with a good story line, good combat, weapon 
 and armor, and monsters, and will enjoy to see more of its class being released in the nearby future! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oooStormCrowooo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Drakan was my first game, it's a violente game but i was to young to understand. considering of 
 how old the game is, and by the time it came out on the market, I give it a 10. the fighting was 
 cool, that you could have a dragon and fly wherever you wanted was a fun experience, and the story 
 was perfect! I must say that Drakan is better then some new games that is on the market now. Drakan 
 is probably the game that guided me into the world of gaming. I have not experienced a other games 
 like Drakan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lisaanne30
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  
  
  A wonderful game. I have loved this game for years and play it over and over. A fun game that gets 
 more fun each time you play it. It is a bit older and not thought of any more really but worth 
 getting and playing. 
  You play Rynn a dragon Ryder . You get to ride your dragon and even fight with him. Riding the 
 dragon is a fun part of the game. As well as using weapons to fight the ogres and other villains 
 you buy spells a wide range of them and level them up as you earn more money.
  Between the dragon riding, spell casting and awesome armor and weapons it is a game that draws 
 you in and keeps you playing. the story is easy to follow and good too. 
  Even has some side quest missions which aren't a must but great way to keep you leveling up with 
 money to buy potions and armor. 
  The graphics arent as good as newer games but not bad, and load time and saving is a lil slow at 
 times but all in all great game. 
  I recommend this game to all game lovers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orderoftheflame
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Drakan came out mid way through 1999, and I received a free copy when buying a new PC. Although 
 I didn't really play it then, I later got into the single player mode, and found it extremely enjoyable, 
 if a little hard However for the time it was released i don't believe there were any better graphics 
 in this type of game. The first half life had come out the October before, and Drakan blew it out 
 of the water with it's graphics. After playing it through, and getting my first internet connection, 
 I downloaded gamespy, and connected to the Drakan lounge. The online community was at this time 
 about thirty people for the entire world, a very tightly knit community that welcomed me. Multiplayer 
 was a hard step up from single player, with a lot of good players to compete against.
  
  The modding community of Drakan was extremely interwoven with the gaming community, as it is for 
 many community's with such a tight community, everyone would know the progress of each others levels, 
 and many excellent Single and Multiplayer levels were produced in the time I was playing it. Despite 
 having such a small community, someone somewhere was always up for playing against you.
  
  Drakan was the first game that I ever played on the internet, from then I've always been more involved 
 with on-line games, and I'll be hard pushed to buy a game with an OK single player mode unless 
 it kicks out some brilliant multiplayer action. Without Drakan I don't believe I'd have chosen 
 my degree in computer games development, and I owe it so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wozzathewalrus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game realy is good! i almost get's that feeling like playing a zelda game. you know when you 
 never wants to stop before you've completed the whole game. This game has much of that i see in 
 "the ultimate game" and even with some quite seirous issues it's realy realy good! actually i loved 
 this game from the beginning and throughout the whole game. well.. i got stuck twice and didn't 
 know where to go and it took a while to figure out. but hey, sometimes it's fun to see that a game 
 has a challange at all. like the difficulty level... hard... blah! if you just runt left around 
 your enemy and hit it as much as you can, you soon realize almost any enemy is quite easy. and 
 if you use the same function often you're almost invincible. i finished the game with tons of potions, 
 arrows and weapons i could have used instead of playing like a chicken with the saves. 
  
  well.. i strongly recomend you to play this game even if it's a bit old. most of the old games 
 got a real "soul". and that's quite hard to find in a new game... the only publishers i feel that 
 i can trust is Nintendo and Blizzard (except from world of warcaft, wich i find extreamly boring)
 
  
  well.. that's it. oh. i forgot something: WHY DIDN'T THE OTHER DRAKAN ARRIVE AT PC?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donkeljohn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Drakan could have been very bad. The developers had two different modes of gameplay tied together 
 with a fantasy setting and a female main character not too long after Lara Croft was burning up 
 game charts.
  
  Some have accused Psygnosis the developer, of merely creating a Tomb Raider knock-off. The developers 
 did create an attractive model with silky voice acting, but you wont see any tigers leaping about 
 in Drakans dungeons. The main character, Rynn, is a pleasant form with which to spend your game 
 time. With Rynns changeable suits of apparel, diverse medieval weapons assortment, and trusty 
 dragon sidekick, it would be difficult to mistake the two with more than just a passing glance. 
 
  
  Arokh, the dragon, makes the whole game. Being able to ride a dragon around impressive settings 
 while scorching, electrocuting, and freezing enemies is the most compelling gameplay experience 
 within Drakans campaign. You begin the game without the dragons companionship. After completing 
 the first dungeon and solving a light puzzle, the two of you are bonded. In a nod (whether intentionally 
 or not) to the Dennis Quaid movie Dragonheart, your lives are inseparably connected. The puzzle 
 not only establishes a supernatural link betwixt you, but also ties the two characters life gauges. 
 What hurts you hurts your companion, and vice versa. The addition doesnt make the game any harder, 
 or easier, and it really doesnt even add to the story.
  
  The story, by far, is the weakest link of the games chain of strengths. Rynn's younger brother 
 Delon is captured during an enemy raid on your village. Though friends and community members are 
 spirited away, you take on a personal crusade to save your sibling from the pig-people known as 
 the Wartoks. The writing and voice acting are mediocre. After all of the long-winded speeches, 
 narrated pictorial guides, and exposition on the heritage of the dragon riders, the story is merely 
 a conveyance to string you along to an otherwise dark and disappointing end. You commune with spirits, 
 mysterious mountain masters, and diabolical demons, but none of them really deliver any presence, 
 or urgency to the story.
  
  In many instances gameplay is an achievable blend of flying around scorching Wartoks and other 
 foes until you reach an impasse. From there you go on foot to explore decimated settlements, sickly 
 mines, and otherwise impregnable fortresses. Along the way you find new weapons, upgrade your armor 
 and even overcome some stilted platforming sequences. One portion which was particularly difficult 
 finds you having to make almost pixel-perfect jumps sideways, backwards, and forwards to navigate 
 a tricky vertical shaft. The reward, though is worth it: impressive weapons.
  
  The weapons heft as expected across the different classes: axes, swords, scimitars, clubs, etc. 
 The weapons have different speeds, not merely between classes, but also within the class. Mythril 
 weapons tend to be faster due to lighter materials, while stone and other heavy materials slow 
 your strikes noticeably. Rods and other special weapons may be imbued with magic. These aftermarket 
 additions allow you to release spheres of fire to burn your foes, shields of ice to circle you 
 against damage, and electricity to zap your many opponents. With the right weapons in your arsenal 
 you can be unstoppable.
  
  In certain instances bow-and arrow use is essential. It is much easier to shoot harpies out of 
 the sky with arrows than it is to wait for them to get within axe-striking distance. Bows are rather 
 generic, but the arrows are as diverse as the rest of your arsenal. During your adventures you 
 come across fire, frost, exploding, and other types of arrows to suit whatever your ranged pleasure 
 may be. Keeping a variety of arrows, in addition to your melee weapons is definitely recommended.
 
  
  Items are kept in a Diablo-style inventory. You have a finite holding capacity and the freedom 
 to carry any assortment of weapons, armor, potions, and plot-specific items available. If you do 
 not cycle weapons correctly you may find yourself dumping excellent weapons for more of the same. 
 Also, in certain parts of the game, due to difficulty, it is imperative you keep a supply of potions 
 to heal you from your wounds.
  
  The dragon sequences are pretty well left open-ended. You may call Arokh to you when you are in 
 the clear. He answers you with loyal voice acting, and even lets you know if the space to which 
 you are calling him may not be accommodating. Arokh animates well. The wing flapping creates an 
 expected perception of buoyancy. The streams of elemental breath weapons not only look convincing, 
 but also have decent sound. The fire is, by far the best looking, and sounding weapon.
  
  When creatures are damaged either by weapons or by breath attacks, they have satisfying death and 
 damage results. Wartoks blasted by fire, naturally light up and continue to burn. Enemies cut by 
 bladed weapons bleed. Upon death from massive damage enemies will even explode into chunks. If 
 your sensibilities are not welcoming of such visceral results, options are available to tone it 
 down or off. Regardless of visual results, the thunking and crackling sound effects remain. In 
 fact the combat sound is delivered in a subtle, yet reinforcing way. When you miss with your scimitar, 
 you hear the swoosh of your weapon cutting the air. When you hit with an axe, a satisfying chug 
 as your blade buries itself in your opponent.
  
  Once you finish with the single-player storyline, or if you lose interest, you can jump online 
 or gather your friends over for a LAN party. You can compete in simple deathmatch sessions. These 
 may be conducted either woman-against-woman or in mounted combat. The multiplayer in Drakan works, 
 but the reliability leaves something to be desired. Frequently players may find themselves booted 
 from a game, or systems may restart suddenly. These glitches seem to have been fixed with patches, 
 but may discourage some from delving into some satisfying fantasy grudge matches. 
  
  In the end, the disparate parts of Drakans development come together nicely. It is a steep, if 
 not impossible challenge for anyone to find a game blending 3rd-person action and impressive dragon-mounted 
 combat. If it exists, and it preceded Drakan, you can call this game a knock-off. Until then, your 
 only option for satisfying air and land fantasy combat on the PC is Drakan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Drakan the order of the flame is one game you can't put down. It is a one of a kind game that will 
 leave you coming back for more. Drakan the order of the flame, even though the graphics are poor, 
 has everything a game should have. It has a great storyline..... a young woman named Rynn is talking 
 to her young brother named Dilon, when a group of ogres and dark knights come out and rade her 
 village, destroying homes and lives. She was knocked unconscious and her brother and a few of her 
 close friends were taken hostage. She wakes up and sets out with her dagger and her will to find 
 her brother and and surviving villagers. 
  This game gets better as she descovers a dragon of the order named Arokh. And not many games have 
 such a great storyline such as this one.
  The world around you as you take to the skies are actually quite beautiful in a sense. This game 
 was made in 1999, and has kept tons of fans for many years. And I'm sure you will like it too. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
