-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dreamfall: The Longest Journey
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/longestjourney2wt/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 An incredibly provocative sci-fi story filled with many memorable characters.
 Beautiful presentation, featuring fantastic voice acting and musical score.
 Dialogue prompts you to make some tough, interesting decisions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 As rich as it is, the story leaves you wanting much more.
 Simplistic combat, not much challenge.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.7, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 3,318 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Funcom
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Apr 17, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Anchored by a wonderful cast of characters, the very well-crafted sci-fi story in Dreamfall will 
 leave you anxiously wanting more. 

  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is, first and foremost, a great work of science fiction. Such a 
 complex plot, endearing characters, and imaginative settings and situations are highly uncommon 
 to gaming, or any medium for that matter. Those familiar with the game's predecessor might expect 
 no less, since it's widely considered one of the best adventure games ever made. Judged as a follow-up 
 to a beloved classic, Dreamfall does not disappoint, for the most part. It exhibits the unique 
 attention to detail and terrific presentation that made The Longest Journey so remarkable for its 
 time. But Dreamfall also does an excellent job drawing in new players as well as those fans patiently 
 awaiting this sequel. The actual gameplay is a blend of action adventure conventions, but it clearly 
 isn't the main draw. It's there to help make the story more engaging, and that's more or less what 
 it does. Yet, as impressive as the story is, it ends too quickly to leave you feeling fully satisfied 
 when you finally reach the game's bewildering, enlightening, frustrating, thought-provoking conclusion. 
 Is the journey itself worth your while, though? Absolutely, yes.  

          Dreamfall packs not one but two of the greatest female protagonists in all of gaming. And 
 it's also got this totally great robot monkey named Wonkers.     

  More than six years ago, The Longest Journey introduced one of gaming's most memorable heroines, 
 a smart and resourceful young woman named April Ryan. April happened to possess a latent ability 
 to "shift" between worlds, from her familiar (yet futuristic) home to a magical place called Arcadia. 
 These parallel worlds of technology and magic had fallen out of balance, and the reluctant April 
 became the key to restoring harmony between the two -- but at what cost to her and her friends? At 
 any rate, you don't need to know what happened to dive right into Dreamfall, which is deeply connected 
 to the events of The Longest Journey but doesn't assume you've played or remember that game. If 
 you haven't or don't, then upon finishing Dreamfall, you'll probably want to go back and play The 
 Longest Journey. It's certainly better as a pure adventure game than Dreamfall is, in case you 
 were wondering. Dreamfall doesn't seem to have nearly as many complicated puzzles in it, but on 
 the flip side, that means you can enjoy this story without running into many roadblocks.  

  It's tempting to go into specifics about Dreamfall's sharply written story. But since playing through 
 the game involved unraveling a convoluted mystery, it's best not to spoil anything. Suffice it 
 to say that you spend much of Dreamfall playing as Zo Castillo, a bright and attractive young 
 woman who's not unlike April from The Longest Journey, only she's a little less cynical and she's 
 got a lovely British accent. Zo seems like she has it all -- a high-tech room with an incredible 
 view, a good-natured and understanding dad, and even a gentle-hearted, artificially intelligent 
 monkey robot. But she's seen better days. She's living at home with her father, trying to decide 
 what to do with her directionless life, having dropped out of school and recently broken up with 
 her longtime boyfriend. She's still on good terms with her ex, though, and one day, he asks her 
 for what seems like a small favor, for help with a story he's working on for his editor. From that 
 point, a chance encounter sets in motion an epic series of events that'll send Zo all across the 
 globe, and beyond.  

          Science fiction and fantasy conventions combine in some truly unique ways during Dreamfall's 
 inspired story.     

  Zo is a great character who's likable, charming, and sympathetic almost right away. And she'll 
 get to meet lots of other similarly interesting characters during the course of her adventure, 
 including some whom Longest Journey fans should recognize. The dialogue between all the different 
 characters flows naturally, and superbly done voice acting, along with expressive 3D characters, 
 makes all the conversation (and there's a lot of it) the highlight of the game. Dreamfall earns 
 its M rating through a little bit of ribald humor and some profanity that's used very liberally 
 by certain characters, and yet applied with restraint overall. For instance, you'll hear Zo cuss 
 in situations in which you'd expect almost anyone her age to react the same way. She leads an outstanding 
 ensemble cast of characters, but they're not to be outdone by Dreamfall's wonderfully imaginative 
 locales. Few games can muster up a cohesive science-fiction setting or a believable fantasy world. 
 Dreamfall pulls off both at once, tying them together in some mind-bending ways. This is some seriously 
 virtuoso storytelling from Longest Journey writer/designer Ragnar Trnquist. There are so many 
 inspired little touches all throughout the game that it's hard not to get swept up and emotionally 
 invested in everything that's going on.  

  That's why it's all the more disconcerting that the game ultimately leaves so many loose ends untied. 
 The story seems well within the author's capable control as it unfolds, intensifies, and deftly 
 changes tone, but then it hurries to a close, practically with a nudge and a wink. Some room for 
 continuation and interpretation can be a good thing for a story, but in Dreamfall's case, the game 
 doesn't do as good of a job wrapping everything up as it does introducing multiple layers of conflict 
 in the first place. In the end, you'll be left wishing for a sequel, wondering what this game could 
 have been like had it simply been longer. It's almost painful not knowing the full breadth of what 
 ends up happening to all these fascinating characters and this amazing world (or, worlds) .     
 

  The Longest Journey was a point-and-click adventure game, whereas Dreamfall plays more like an 
 action adventure game, letting you directly control the character as you explore and run around 
 in detailed 3D landscapes. There's a little combat, which is easy and very basic. There are a few 
 inventory puzzles and other fairly simple puzzles that take the form of hacking or lock picking. 
 There are a number of environmental puzzles and a few stealth sequences. And, other than that, 
 there's a whole lot of character interaction. Some dialogue sequences prompt you to decide how 
 your character will respond -- such as confrontationally or apologetically. These bits make the exchanges 
 of dialogue that much more engaging, though as difficult as these decisions may be when they arise, 
 they usually bring you to the same result.  

          The gameplay is pretty light, but it does a good job of not obstructing the story. It makes 
 sense in the context of the plot, and it's varied enough to stay interesting.     

  To the game's credit, a number of its puzzles are open-ended enough to let you solve them in a 
 few different ways, such as by sneaking past a dangerous situation, talking your way out of one, 
 or fighting for your life. But overall, there just isn't a ton of actual gameplay in Dreamfall. 
 Especially at first, both the action and the puzzle solving take a backseat to dialogue and exploration. 
 And yet, strangely enough, this works to the game's advantage. The one or two times you might get 
 stuck trying to figure out the solution to one of the game's tougher puzzles will be when you realize 
 how refreshing the brisk pacing of the story is for the most part.  

  The game controls quite well. The camera can get a little awkward in tight quarters, but since 
 there aren't many action sequences, this is almost never a liability. Numerous objects in the environment 
 become highlighted as you approach them, and you can also examine them from afar. Your character's 
 initial observations about a given object may reveal more information, prompting you to take a 
 closer look. Or, similarly, you might observe new things about someone after having spoken at length 
 with him or her. Better yet, since Zo isn't the only character you'll get to play as in Dreamfall, 
 it can be really rewarding to visit the same places from different perspectives. In one remarkable 
 little moment, your control shifts between two different characters conversing with each other, 
 effectively letting you direct both sides of the discussion. Also, while you might initially find 
 yourself wishing you had access to a map, none of the game's areas are so expansive as to require 
 one. You'll sooner appreciate being able to explore all these places at your own pace while soaking 
 in the detail.  

  The differences between the PC and Xbox versions of Dreamfall are slight. On the PC, you've got 
 your choice of keyboard, mouse, or game pad controls, or a combination of all three. Mouse-and-keyboard 
 controls are fine, but gamepad controls are best suited. The PC version is capable of looking substantially 
 cleaner and more colorful if you've got a good graphics card, but the Xbox version looks really 
 nice, too. Each version supports widescreen displays, and something about this game makes it beg 
 to be played in a panoramic view. While there are some blurry textures here and there, and the 
 character models aren't made up of a relatively huge number of polygons or anything, the game more 
 than makes up for this with its inspired, stylized visual design. The scenery throughout looks 
 beautiful, and the characters emote believably -- not only through good lip-synching but also through 
 believable facial expressions and body language.  

  But the audio in Dreamfall is really the driving force behind the game's dramatic impact. The quality 
 (and quantity) of the voice acting is terrific, and the game's soundtrack is filled with memorable 
 and varied compositions, including a few soulful songs, and it cues up perfectly with Dreamfall's 
 many poignant moments. Like some great score for a feature film, the music in Dreamfall is an integral 
 part of the experience from start to finish.  

          In an alternate reality somewhere, Dreamfall is a few hours longer and considered the greatest 
 work of video game fiction ever made.     

  Despite the far-flung premise of Dreamfall, the game touches on a number of classical themes. The 
 importance of faith, the significance of dreams, the value of trust, and the need to be free are 
 all woven into a story that runs the emotional gamut from excitement and intrigue to sadness and 
 fear to relief and hilarity. Sound too good to be true? In some respects, unfortunately, it is. 
 In the end, Dreamfall leaves you hanging. It practically pulls the rug out from under you, after 
 setting you up to expect some sort of amazing grand finale. And to an extent, this undermines the 
 experience leading up to that point. The game is of a decent length and will probably take you 
 about 10 hours to finish the first time, but you'll feel like there was enough material left on 
 the cutting-room floor for at least another five hours or so. It's also a bit of a shame that there 
 are no extras, not even some unlockable concept art or anything like that. But you'll likely feel 
 the urge to play through at least once more, since you'll miss some of the dialogue and subtle 
 references the first time, and gain new insight into the story on the second run. Above all, you'll 
 likely be left hoping that Zo Castillo's and April Ryan's story will continue past this game, 
 and soon.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (269 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: socom10
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2009 3:22 pm PT
Review:  off all the games that i have played, dreamfall was one of the best. altough the graphics are not 
 amazing the storyline and the ingenuity of the gameplay makes up for it, after playing the game 
 itself i realized how much i got into the storyline and how good and easy it was to understand. 
 this is a one-of a kind game, and if you have not played this game youve missed something big. 
 to cut a long story short it makes up for everything you would ever want to have in an adventure/action/sci-fi 
 game. the game goes verry deep into diggin into the story and the main characters asswell, wich 
 they also were able to create a good solid story around wich will still, and maybe give us another 
 ''The Longest Journey'' title soon. 2009/2030, as long as there comes a third title. we will all 
 be happy
  
  P. S. if you like to follow a good storyline and play in it. get this game. do not hesitate, play 
 it and make sure you have enough time :-)
  
  Human2Yeti
  
  you have any questions. or would like to discuss the game with me contact me at:
  
  Xfire: 
 Human2Yeti
  MSN: EchelonWW@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedilion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 10:00 am PT
Review:  First off I have to say that this is a hard game to review because it doesn't really compare to 
 anything else. It has elements of puzzle solving and role playing with little bits of sneaking 
 and fighting but what it really is is simply an interactive story which makes it refreshing and 
 engrossing it can also make some aspects really boring. For instance you might to run back and 
 forth half a dozen times between a few spots just pick up something or talk to someone so you can 
 complete a puzzle which can get old reallly fast. Never the less the way you approach the same 
 scenario as different characters is really interesting especially when you end up directing both 
 ends of a conversation. The story is interesting and involves a mysterious black and white girl 
 that appears on TV screens so that's gotta be a plus, however the big cliff hanger at the end is 
 just frustrating and left me wondering why I'd bothered playing all the way through when i shud 
 have just read what happens on the web and got on with my life. Anyway i hope the next game draws 
 it all to a close and sorts out some the annoying bugs in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jibberz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 2:43 am PT
Review:  1st game I actually ever finished. Not much of a gamer, but since I lost my job, I have all the 
 time in the world. haha.
  
  The beginning has you solving mysteries and running missions. Was very fun going back and forth 
 hacking into things and trying to figure things out. The only weird and confusing part is you get 
 to play 4 different characters. And every now and then, this little girl pops up in the widescreen 
 telling you to save someone. 
  
  The middle is more of a story. You basically herd stories of how the Azardi and how they brought 
 freedom and democracy. You get to travel to different parts of the world, most of it make belief 
 and also Japan. You don't get to see much of Japan, only the Wati Corp. 
  
  And the end, well, didn't answer any questions or solved anything. It was pretty much a let down 
 since is didn't answer any questions, but created about 10 more questions. Did she have a sister? 
 Was that her mom? etc etc. 
  
  Very confusing ending. I don't want to ruin it for everyone else, but it was worth playing. I might 
 get the 1st version now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulhunter91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 12:45 am PT
Review:  This game was like a interactive movie. It was fun and had a good story. It really made you wanna 
 keep playing. It had a good story, a little bit confusing but still good. My problem with it, is 
 at the end. Instead of answering any of the questions it posed to you, it creates like 20 more 
 and you grasp only 10 the first run through. I played again just to see what else i can do, but... 
 because its more of a movie, that was a no dice, you end up doing the same thing in the same order. 
 The story is interesting and that is how it gets you. It gives you an entertaining and interesting 
 story that really grips you and makes you keep going, but the kick in the crotchal region is all 
 these cliffhangers at the end. It doesn't wrap up ANY of the loose ends. it Its fun, i have to 
 say, but i recommend wait till the next chapter comes out first, because you will be pissed at 
 how many cliffhangers are left. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migs007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games that I have played in my life. A wonderful story-driven game that 
 would satisfy book readers or storie lovers alike. The characters are all well-played as if actors 
 in a movie or better. But as such like a book or a movie playing it 2 times for more than 2 hours 
 each time would make it's replay value highly the same as a book. The dialogue was well scripted 
 that could make for a best selling book or a good movie as well but for a game it does not do much 
 in terms of gameplay but mostly just how well you base your decision so this game really isn't 
 for hardcore gamers who desire action packed scenes. 
  
  All that said it is still worth every penny I spent on it. I'm just a sucker for a good story and 
 this got me sucking it dry.
  
  Hmmm. I need more characters to input this review so I also think the main character looks hot. 
 hehehehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3na3
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:26 pm PT
Review:  DreamFall The Longest Journey 
  i like the game it is interesting the sci-fi story, the Adventure,
  it was huge there was several 
 countries and two different worlds,
  there is a new thoughts, i like the way to travel between the two worlds 
  the graphic is good 
 
  but it could be better
  and the music i loved the music it is perfect
  but the movies is too much while playing take
  a smaller role, it was like watching a movie,
 
  the movements was limited, there was not action 
  and the fighting was so limited
  it is not hard 
  and the end is not real end 
  but it is a start of some thing else like what 
 they said
  'As rich as it is, the story leaves you wanting much more'
  and it is kind af sad end i think, who know what is happing next
  generally i can said DreamFall: 
 The Longest Journey
  is a good game and deserve to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christinewalker
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:13 am PT
Review:  Beautiful game, awesome graphics and scenes. 
  
  But it was more of a story than a game. A lot of time is spent just clicking through the dialogue 
 and little time actually making decisions and figuring out the puzzles. There weren't many puzzles 
 and the ones that were there were really easy. 
  
  I couldn't really see the point of having the other two characters, apart from Zoe, in there. They 
 didn't add to the game. The inventory system had a lot of gaps but I never came close to filling 
 them. Nowhere near as much inventory action as the first game.
  
  The end was very up in the air. The game didn't explain what happened to Reza, April etc. 
  
 
  On the whole, an enjoyable game but a little annoying at times. The fighting was annoying - I 
 didn't buy an adventure game to fight and it wasn't easy to kill some people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2009 8:08 am PT
Review:  When "The Longest Journey" was released, the adventure genre was still alive... barely so, but 
 still alive. When its sequel, "Dreamfall", came about less than three years ago, the genre had 
 died. Perhaps not in the strictest of senses, as its influence had disseminated far and wide across 
 the video-game genre spectrum, infecting everything from role playing to survival horror, but adventure 
 game cannon was long gone. Apparently, Ragnar Trnquist wanted to bring it back by producing "Dreamfall", 
 an attempt at revitalizing one of the most precious video-game genres. It's a feat in itself, as 
 few games have tried, and fewer even succeeded in re-imagining adventure game beneath the light 
 of the XXIst century, with the blinding lights of modern shooters obfuscating every single piece 
 of original entertainment. But "Dreamfall" tries, and succeeds, at that monumental task, and with 
 an utter commitment to the original spirit of the genre, something which even "Fahrenheit" (often 
 regarded as the second coming of the genre) failed to uphold.
  
  "The Longest Journey", like so many adventure games, was something of a rocky gem. It's narrative 
 and aesthetic shone brightly, but a dated game-play model and an unfortunate sense of humor were 
 in need of severe revising. "Dreamfall" is, in many ways, the hidden gem of "The Longest Journey": 
 it's more pondered and contained, and more aware of the flaws of the genre in which it inhabits. 
 That self-awareness allows it to counter-weigh such flaws, making it a more polished game than 
 its prequel in almost every way. The exploration, now in full 3D allows for a greater sense of 
 freedom and immersion in Trnquist's brilliantly concocted fantasy world; the puzzles are simpler 
 and easier to understand (clearly a compromise with today's difficulty standards) ; the narrative 
 feels more balanced and structurally more sound, featuring denser characters and more twists, and 
 being fully deprived of inopportune humor. Even the visual style, which at first glance seems to 
 have lost some of the magic vibe of its predecessor, as a consequence of the move to 3D, ends up 
 using the extra dimension in its behalf, conjuring up a dynamic, pulsing world out of the beautiful, 
 yet static, paintings that composed "Journey's" backgrounds. And on a purely technical analysis, 
 "Dreamfall" is still one of the most impressive games today, with detailed backgrounds, a stunning 
 lighting engine, and incredibly expressive character animations... all coming from a middle-sized 
 European studio. That alone would be worthy of applause.
  
  But that's not to say that the polishing of "The Longest Journey" yields a perfect gem. Unfortunately, 
 some of the containment that can be felt in each of its expressive vehicles ends up marring the 
 spontaneity of "Dreamfall's" creators. The story, while equally elaborate as its predecessor's, 
 lacks the sense of bewilderment that you've come to expect from fantasy set pieces - a flaw easily 
 attributed to the more prevalent sci-fi mood in "Dreamfall". That the plot is left unfinished by 
 the end of the game, is also hard to sink in, even if it stems from Trnquist's apparent desire 
 to further dissect his world. While the perfectionism of his tale remains breathtaking, the cost 
 of the final cliffhanger is that the story does not achieve any sort of conclusion for the player, 
 which, knowing the difficulties of the small studio behind it, makes it likely that a sequel may 
 never be brought to life, thus leaving the story untold. The final polish that opens further cracks 
 in such a gem, comes from attempts at making the game more pleasurable for modern players: by increasing 
 the number of basic puzzle pieces, more akin to mini-games than actual puzzles, and adding short, 
 simplistic action sequences, in which you play a stripped down version of a brawler. While these 
 elements might have served to punctuate the slow-paced rhythm of the exploration portions of adventure 
 gaming, they are so bland that they add nothing to the strengths of the game.
  
  Despite the sometimes excessive compromise with modern design, "Dreamfall" furthers the quality 
 of its predecessor, effectively bringing its light to the XXIst century. It maintains the spiritual 
 legacy of classic adventure gaming intact, but does so while lightening its silly idiosyncrasies 
 in favor of more simple game design dynamics. And so, once again, Trnquist devises a world that 
 sucks you in entirely, filled with mystery and drama, and an aesthetic beauty that is unique to 
 his creative imagination. Not only does it reinterpret adventure gaming, as it redefines it, completes 
 it, and makes it shine as the inner gem it has always been... a gem that'll mesmerize you with 
 its seductive light. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightscout_11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 4:17 am PT
Review:  This is one of those rare games (such as ff7 and ff8) without good graphics or good gameplay that 
 shine because of the story. This is one of those games that isn't just another entertainment because 
 of its fast action, competitive multyplayer or some large scale battles. This is one of those games 
 that make you fell like you are the main character and that his world is actually yours. This is 
 one of the rare games where you gonna experience feelings from anger to excitement, from happiness 
 to sadness in just a couple of hours. For me the only bad part is the ending. At some point in 
 the game everything started to go wrong. And that rly gave me a feeling that i never experienced 
 in a game :hope. Until i saw the credits i keept hoping that there is going to be a twist and there 
 will be a happy ending. But unfortunately all the twists were bad. But that's not all. The end 
 leaves you with almost no answers. Its good in a way because this is where your imagination helps 
 you. Anyway play this game because its gonna offer you an unique experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2009 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This game has a really good story. It will suck you in from the very beginning and leave you with 
 wanting more. For gamers who play games for the story, i recomend DreamFall, but for gamers who 
 play games for the action, you might want to stay away from this. I personally play games for the 
 stories AND action, but the story was so good on this game that it kinda made you forget about 
 the action. Although, this game could have been better on the action and fighting. Also the ending 
 will REALLY LEAVE YOU HANGING, so if you like games that explain a lot at the end, the ending to 
 Dreamfall might turn you off, but its still good non the less.
  
  Story- The story is really unique and really grows on you, making you want to play it even though 
 you just got done shutting it off to take a break. You will also meet a lot of characters a long 
 the way of DreamFall, its basicly a book turned into a video game.
  
  Gameplay- This is probably the only weakness of the game. The "Gameplay" of a video game plays 
 a HUGE role, but not for this game. There are hardly any times you fight in this game, i think 
 i tried counting and it sumed up to like 5 to 7 times you actually fight in this game. When you 
 do fight, the fighting feels really stiff, but once you get the hang of it it isnt so bad, but 
 like i said, there is hardly any fighting in this game. This game could have been a lot better 
 with more action and fighting. 
  
  Graphics- Good.
  
  Sound- Not bad.
  
  Overall, DreamFall is a good game. They could have worked a lot more and done a lot better job 
 on the action and fighting, but its still a good game to check out for the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ky9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:33 pm PT
Review:  There's just something about this game. When you first start playing, you sort of subconsciously 
 realize that the gameplay itself isn't that great. Characters walk in an oddly delayed, somewhat 
 clumsy manner, and combat is, truth be told, a joke. Graphics quality isn't too exceptional either; 
 this game can't run on my Geforce 440 MX, while Half life 2 can and makes mincemeat out of this 
 game graphics-wise. And there is definitely something odd going on in the part where Zoe's head 
 meets her neck.
  
  But soon enough, you completely forget about these shortcomings because of just how dang good the 
 story is. You start to really care about these characters. And while the story starts off as something 
 somewhat predictable (think futuristic world and evil corporations) , it begins to develop into 
 something with much more depth and substance and emotion that makes it worthy of being The Longest 
 Journey's sequel. 
  
  The voice acting is superb in this game as well (for instance, if you read the end credits you'll 
 be thinking "That guy has the same voice as THAT guy??!) This is a very good thing, since dialogue 
 is what makes up most of this game; the fact that this is so and that it's not boring is a feat 
 in itself. However, you do have to have a certain level of patience and be willing to pay attention 
 to the storyline. Otherwise, you're missing the whole point of the game. 
  
  And while the graphics aren't exciting on a technical basis, the art direction is very impressive. 
 You're in a world -- or two worlds, rather -- that is believable somehow, and yet still a new and interesting 
 place to be in. 
  
  While in most cases art direction and story alone won't make a game a good one (yes I'm looking 
 at you, Tomb Raider Angel of Darkness) , somehow this one does. You'll want to come back to this 
 game after you're done for those reasons, because they are quite strong enough to hold their own. 
 Case in point: while combat itself isn't that fun, it's very fun figuring out the different ways 
 to sweet talk your way out of it.
  
  This game knows that it's not meant to measure up to other games in terms of pure action-adventure, 
 and that's fine because it compensates for these things just fine. This is what leads me to think 
 that this isn't so much a video game as a story-telling medium. The Longest Journey series is reknowned 
 for this reason, and if you read the "Are Videogames Art?" article that was up some time ago, I 
 think games like this are one step closer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: startrooper101
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was great! I didn't think I'd like it but i got into it right from the start. It had 
 everything, action, suspense, comedy, romance etc... I just wish it was longer, and I didn't want 
 it to end the way it did. But I guess that's what makes the game so unique.
  
  The story was pretty impressive along with intriguing puzzles and small fight scenes. You're even 
 able to choose different solutions that can create different outcomes or change the way you interact 
 with other characters. There's also autosaves and manual saves you can possess which comes in handy.
 
  
  You'll encounter different worlds with magical and aw-inspiring environments. Hack into mainframes, 
 sneak past sleeping guard dogs, atrocious enemies and deathly laser-pointing robots, ride a flying 
 ship and even break into buildings. 
  
  I believe there's something here for everyone and you should give this game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_PC_Gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  ****Intro
  
  You do not need to have played through the original to enjoy this great title. Dreamfall: The Longest 
 Journey (or simply Dreamfall) is one of the best adventure games I have ever played. Some may criticize 
 this game because of the more of a cinematic story-telling angle to the game, rather than head-scratching 
 puzzles. But I love it just the way it is. 
  
  In short, the game isn't for those hardcore adventurists who are looking for the same level of 
 challenge as in the original game. Really, the only things linking this game to the original are 
 the characters and the setting. Another similarity people will find in this game is the great story, 
 arguably better than that of the original. The interface is simple, puzzles are enjoyable and the 
 story is breathtaking. This game is a must-play for anyone looking for a great experience without 
 the usual frustrations that accompany some adventure games. 
  
  
  ****Presentation
  
  Everything looks very nice here. The engine does a great job of rendering colossal environments 
 and set pieces while running quite modestly even on low-end machines. Having written this review 
 in late 2008, years after the game came out, that says a lot about the engine. It aged very well. 
 The textures still look sharp, character animations are fluent  though some may find it annoying 
 that a few characters do not open their mouths when they speak  they are not major characters 
 however. It has to be said that the game plays very well. I had no experiences with texture pop-ins 
 or getting stuck on objects/characters while walking around. 
  
  The main menu's are simple and easy to navigate. Quick saves are present, so you are never forced 
 to run back to a certain point in the world to save your game. 
  
  One of the high points of this game is sound. The sound design and score are absolutely magnificent 
 here. You will find yourself wanting to find the artists who wrote these great musical pieces and 
 downloading more samples from them. From strong bass during action sequences to tear-inducing piano 
 solos, the sound production value is really through the roof. It doesn't just stop there, however. 
 Much like the original, the game features a great cast of voice actors who really deliver on all 
 their lines. Some from the original game, and some new actors, they both do a great job with their 
 characters. You never really feel like it is someone just reading out the lines  they really do 
 ACT behind the microphone, giving it their best. 
  
  
  ****Design
  
  The story. This is one of, if not THE most important reason you need to play this game. Like mentioned 
 earlier, no you do not need to have played the original to totally have a great experience here. 
 However, if you did play the original, some of the returning characters will be sure to bring you 
 unexpected joy, just seeing how they were re-imagined for the 3D engine. Not enough can be said 
 about the amazing, tear-inducing story that is to be experienced here. Memorable, believable characters 
 really make you appreciate their company and you get emotionally attached to them. I cannot say 
 a whole lot about the story without spoiling it. It has many twists and turns, and most of them 
 are rare to the genre, plagued by predictable Happy Endings. If this game were a movie, it would 
 win Oscars for its story, I seriously guarantee you that. I personally cried at one point in the 
 game. That's saying a lot. Depending on which characters you become more emotionally attached to, 
 I can count at least 2-3 moments in the story that are worth a tear. This really is a great experience. 
 There are almost no decisions to be made in the story, but rather on small-scale conversations. 
 So the main story is pretty linear, with little choices made here and there. But that's not at 
 all a bad thing.
  
  The game only offers the single player campaign, with little more to add. It should take about 
 10 hours to complete, depending on how much you like exploring the amazing environments. It has 
 a bit of a cliffhanger ending, but not too much in my opinion, so it's very enjoyable even with 
 that. 
  
  ****Gameplay
  
  This is what will make or break the game for some people. If you are looking for a great game, 
 then by all means pick this up. The only people who will be disappointed here are those looking 
 for a challenge, looking to solve epic puzzles and feel extremely proud of themselves afterwards. 
 That's how the first game played out, and it is not the case here. While the original game had 
 the type of puzzles where you not only have to figure out HOW to solve it (ie create a pattern) , 
 you then need to establish how to USE items to implement your solution (ie what the designer of 
 the game thought you'd need to solve something) . This is where many non-adventure gamers got frustrated 
 at times. Well I am happy to say Dreamfall throws that out the window. The puzzles are much simpler 
 to USE (figure out what you need to do) so from then on actually solving the puzzles is not that 
 difficult. This is what made the game so accessible and fun for me, you really want to see how 
 the story progresses, so the game occasionally throws challenges at you that are actually solvable 
 (without consulting GameFAQs and then STILL not understanding how they expected you to come up 
 with that solution) . 
  
  The second negative point I have about this game is combat. It is absolutely terrible, and you 
 have no way to avoid it during 2-3 sequences in the game. So you have to wonder, why they threw 
 it in there at all? The fighting is all about perfect timing, and I mean flawless timing. It can 
 get very frustrating having to play through the same sequences 3 or 4 times because you keep missing 
 that last block and your opponent combo's you to death. It's useless and can be frustrating, but 
 thankfully there are very few occasions where you need to fight, so it is forgivable. 
  
  In terms of the item collection, it is a big step forward from the pixel-hunt that was the original 
 game. Here, all the objects are clearly visible, and as you approach them, they get a selection 
 box around them. Click, and you get a nice menu of possible interactions. This applies to characters 
 as well. 
  
  
  ****Conclusion
  
  In the end, this is a great game. Think of it as one of those games you MUST play just to experience 
 the story. The other gameplay elements are not groundbreaking, but they do their job and provide 
 very solid support for what drives this game. If you haven't played the original, you will be fine. 
 Enjoy the great characters, settings, and emotional connections. 
  
  If, after playing this game, you wish to try the original (much like I did) prepare for a different 
 experience, not nearly as enjoyable. I'll leave it at that.
  
  
  Presentation - 9 / 10
  Design - 10 / 10
  Gameplay - 7 / 10
  OVERALL - 9.0 / 10
  Final Verdict: Must Play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomcorazon
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  A weird story, frustrating voice acting and the... slowest... gameplay... I have ever encountered. 
 I played this because it was about being part of the story and involving yourself in something, 
 but by the end I just wanted it to end! The frustration comes mainly from spending 3 or 4 minutes 
 walking across a town to pick up a key or something and then walking 3 or 4 minutes back to use 
 the thing!! Also, why on earth do they bother with the fighting sections.. you never really use 
 them, and when you do you might as well have your eyes closed and just click the mouse intermittently
 
  Still.. some of the environments where quite interesting looking and the story, although weird, 
 did make me finish the game. Enjoy the story.. but be prepared for (what seems like) hours of gruelling 
 unnecessary travelling and "obvious" puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Handofguardian
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  I love the story, music, the atmosphere at this game is really something special, many games lack 
 this feeling, it attach me and make me dream.
  but this is really something that it should be, Not a A to Z walk game. for some reason, it works 
 out well, but don't make the game last.
  
  The character are great, I get attached to this zo she is independent and funny. and we got these 
 inner conflicts, and a choice or more in conversations.
  
  one or two things I don't like is the easy fighting. way to easy, but it was quite interesting.
 
  and the ending is sad, Wish fun-com wound make another game like this, but keep the fantasy world 
 and some more advanced fighting would be great! (i don't think Age of Conan is what i mean)
  
  I really want to see more, but sadly there isn't.
  this game won some awards, and it won 
 thousands of hearts.
  This game awesome and it makes me want more of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lycentia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  This game was very good. I couldn't stop playing it when I got it. It took me 2 days to finish 
 but that's because I played it constantly. The wait for this sequal was way too long. I can't wait 
 for the next one to come out. 
  
  This is an amazing game and the story was really good. The graphics were beautiful. The puzzles 
 were perfect.
  
  The only let down was very end. Mainly because the story is left open for the addition of another 
 installment. Why is another sequal a letdown? If you know how long it took them to make this sequal 
 you'll understand why this is a let down. And now this company is devoted to Conan so I'm doubting 
 they are putting much effort into another sequal. I can dream though, no wait I think I'll stay 
 awake ;)
  
  It's also sad near the end, this game actually made me cry. That is saying a lot when a game is 
 so immersive that it brings your emotions out. The fact that it got to me this much shows just 
 how well the story of this game was written and how well it was preformed in the game. A++ to the 
 devlopers for getting to my heart.
  
  I'd recommend this game to anyone who likes point and click adventure games. If you are an adventure 
 game fan go out and buy this game. Try to find The Longest Journey too if you can, but you don't 
 have to play it in order to get enjoyment out of Dreamfall and you won't feel lost if you didn't 
 play it either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  This is a beautifull game, some years ago I played the longest journey and when this came out I 
 when right there to get it. 
  
  Its now two years since it had been realesed and guess what "NO NEXT EPISODE" so its frustrating, 
 cause at the end you have a big void of emptines, and i have to say, I never read a review on this 
 game, I wanted to experience it mayself and I was pretty angry when I was cut from my happy playing 
 with that absurd open ending.
  
  But in the mean time the game was beutifull, I love a game that makes you fell emotions and this 
 is one of those, it makes you fell angry, happy and swear from time to time.
  
  The graphis I love them, soo colorfull, great imagination, and the game its absolutelly smoth to 
 play, some times I as thinking, o maybe theres a pixel search i didnt acomplish right, but nope, 
 not anoying pixels search at all, so if you want to click for pixels its cause you want it and 
 not cause you are in need to the history to go on, I love that too.
  
  But them again TWO YEARS, maybe (as it happened in this game at least for me) when the next episode 
 its realeased I allready forgot what happened in the previows one, theres a lot of people in this 
 game i was supposed to knew from the previus one, but guess what, it was soo long ago I play it 
 I cant remember them, and thats not right.
  
  Well enjoy it anyway its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platyphyllum
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The Longest Journey (a PC adventure game released back in 2000) was, and still is, considered one 
 of the best adventure games of all time and that is something I simply cannot disagree with. The 
 game was truly a celebration in gaming storytelling. It really made a big and unexpected impact 
 onto the genre with its charm, characters, and a top quality story that is presented in one of 
 the best ways ever. Now, the previously unknown Norwegian company Funcom and game designer Ragnar 
 Tornquist bring us another great story in the form of a sequel called Dreamfall: The Longest Journey.
 
  
  In Dreamfall, one gets to see the world (in the year 2219) through the eyes of Zoe Castillo. She 
 is a college dropout who finds herself wasting her life doing absolutely nothing. She hangs around 
 at home watching television (or whatever it's called in the future) , she sometimes goes down the 
 street to meet with her friend Liv, or she might go to the gym. It's a pretty boring life for her, 
 and truthfully, she's unsatisfied with what she has become. However, she soon finds herself wrapped 
 up in events that bring her to another world known as Arcadia where she has a few run-ins with 
 April Ryan, the protagonist of The Longest Journey, and many other interesting characters and she 
 soon begins to learn more about her own destiny and what she can do. The story goes into a lot 
 of depth and it's a truly magnificent piece of work. It can easily be seen by the end of the game 
 that a lot of work put into it and its presentation.
  
  Sadly though, the story doesn't have a very good gameplay foundation to support it. The original 
 The Longest Journey was a point-and-click adventure where you couldn't die. While this may seem 
 odd, it was actually a really good way to present the story because you never found yourself dying 
 and having to repeat a certain scene that you've seen before. The game flowed smoothly and you 
 could more easily appreciate the story. Unfortunately, Dreamfall: The Longest Journey goes on the 
 action-adventure route with more focus on the adventure and less on the action. I wouldn't have 
 minded if the action elements were done well but the combat is clunky with the only options being 
 a strong attack, a weak attack, and blocking. The controls are also a bit iffy at first with an 
 unusual control scheme where the camera is controlled with the mouse and the playable characters' 
 movements being controlled with the WASD keys (thankfully, you can quickly get used to it) . However, 
 one of the most meaningless changes in the gameplay is that in Dreamfall, you can die which leads 
 to some very tedious and frustrating moments where you were about to solve a puzzle, but had to 
 repeat it because some stupid troll decided to punch you. The game's adventure roots are still 
 present with some interesting puzzles and enjoyable exploration, but far too many clunky action 
 elements ruin the experience which makes me think that the game would have probably done better 
 if it was just a pure adventure game.
  
  While the gameplay is questionable and frustrating, the graphics are thankfully pretty nice to 
 look at. The graphics actually look kind of simple without much detail. However, this game is an 
 example of how a great art style and great design can still make a game look beautiful despite 
 the fact that it may not have the highest polygon count out there. It also continues the tradition 
 taken over from the first game of being able to apply a whole lot of different themes into one 
 game. It is simply astonishing how one game can contain the dark and gloomy alleys of Newport, 
 Venice while it can also contain the snowy but bright city of Marcuria. It really makes it seem 
 like the entire world (or worlds) of Dreamfall could have several games put into it which is really 
 impressive. The game also does a good job of bringing the locations in The Longest Journey and 
 transforming them into a believable interactive three-dimensional world.
  
  The game also gets a lot of credit for its audio. Just like its predecessor, Dreamfall has incredible 
 voice acting. The amount of emotion that each voice actor (and voice actress) gives to their characters 
 is just astounding. The music is also pretty good with some tracks seeming like they should be 
 in some sort of epic movie and a few creepy yet calming tracks which make it seem like they fit 
 right into the ending of a horror movie when all the horror seems like its over but anything can 
 still happen. It is even better that each time one of these tracks is played, it all fits with 
 any given situation. The sound effects are all solid and continue to make the game believable and 
 immersive.
  
  Despite the great story of Dreamfall, it also has the unfortunate position of being "in the middle". 
 That means that it's a sequel to an immensely popular game, but it also has this crazy cliffhanger 
 ending that directly points to another sequel. Don't get me wrong though, the story is still really 
 deep and presented in an almost perfect way but it simply can't be helped that the game leaves 
 us wanting more (and unfortunately, considering the 6 or 7 year gap from The Longest Journey to 
 Dreamfall, the story won't be continued until a few more years) .
  
  It's also strange how the game is kind of short. With a subtitle like "The Longest Journey", one 
 would expect that they are in for a long journey. However, that simply is not the case. It lasts 
 only around 15 to 20 hours which isn't that long which means it might only occupy you for three 
 or four days (or one day if you are one of those people who keeps playing non-stop) . A good chunk 
 of this game is also spent listening to characters conversing with each other and storyline progression 
 so there obviously isn't that much gameplay in this game (which is actually a bit of a good thing 
 considering how boring the combat is) .
  
  Overall, Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is just full of things to like and dislike. It has a great 
 story, good graphics, and excellent audio. Meanwhile, the gameplay (the main foundation for any 
 game) is absolutely tedious, frustrating, and overly simple. It makes me wonder why they decided 
 to go with the whole action-adventure approach when they can't even do the actions parts well. 
 If you loved The Longest Journey, want to get immersed into a huge and complex storyline, or you 
 really like adventure games, I recommend that you go ahead and get Dreamfall: The Longest Journey, 
 but anyone else shouldn't really bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  If anyone played The Longest Journey, you know you have to play Dreamfall, this game is just amazing, 
 and the story line compels you to keep playing the game it keeps you wanting to reach the end. 
 This game has an amazing story line; it's so well elaborated that you would want to play it again. 
 This game is definitely a must. This game has some puzzles in it but not the kind that will bore 
 you to death, the game play is absolutely fantastic, graphics are great, I definitely recommend 
 this game to anyone that enjoys a game full of adventure with an amazing story line. 
  In Dreamfall you al get to change characters as you play along the game and experience each characters 
 view and their on story lines. There is alot of things there are left to be answered in Dreamfall 
 and I just hope the developers follow up with a sequel.
  
  Cons:
  I want a sequel!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladin_1010
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that I am waiting in great anticipation for the next few installments that 
 will bring the stories to a close.
  
  Game play is just about right and a tad easy but I most enjoy a game when it's not extremely difficult... it's 
 the story that makes the game for me anyway!
  
  The first game was quit different and had a little bit better story, but at the same time, it was 
 much more tedious and took much more patience to complete.
  
  I am getting older and I simply don't have the patience I once had, so I enjoyed this much more 
 than the original gameplay wise and can't wait to play the rest when they come out which is hopefully 
 before I die.
  
  I will miss this series however, when it is gone.
  
  Buy this game and support the developers who are having a hard time selling games these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnimetorLily
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 2, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  Graphics & Animation:
  I've played the first The Longest Journey (TLJ) game a couple of years ago, loved it, and re-played 
 many times. But the second installment is sadly, a big big disappointment to me. The graphics presentation 
 appear degraded than the previous game, which is a shame because the world (s) shown in the game 
 have interesting concepts, and there were some scenes tied back to the TLJ1 game which previous 
 game fans like me would've loved to find out more about.
  
  The characters are very badly animated too. Most of them (especially Zo herself) has very bad 
 facial expression, bad eye contact, etc etc which is terrible when the game has so much talking 
 scenes and close ups of their faces! Even their voices sound so dull and lifeless.. Thank goodness 
 for some familiar, 'still-lively-as-always' characters (Crow, April) who quite saved the game experience 
 for me (a little) .
  
  Gameplay:
  I wish that they had kept the concept of 'point and click adventure game' for Dreamfall, but hey, 
 I guess even adventure games gotta evolve some time. However, it might have been acceptable if 
 there were decent controls for gameplay.. which there isn't. Unless you play this game in one sitting, 
 it's hard to remember what button does what. Controls are a little awkward, problems/puzzles are 
 either too easy or too annoyingly frustrating to solve.
  
  Using your inventory items is a chore, especially during the times when the character is in a hurry 
 to achieve something (in the game) . The 'fighting' parts are the most pitiful. If there are any 
 new installments to this series, I hope they won't include this ability. And the camera controls...! 
 Don't even get me started on that.
  
  Story:
  The storyline is the most disappointing. Nothing makes any sense, too many loose ends and going 
 around in circles. What happened to the writers of the game? The starting point had a promising 
 look to it, and conveniently involves a quite important sub-character of TLJ1. The developments 
 are mostly movie sequences, talk talk and more talk. Boring. The ending is like stepping off mount 
 Everest's peak into thin air and falling on your face.
  
  Conclusion:
  I regret buying this game, I regret playing it. If you have time to spare, don't waste it on this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertykeys
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey was a generally fun game. It's kind of like a story telling/adventure/fantasy 
 game. The game has a lot of cutscenes and a few action parts, but you basically just sit back and 
 watch it. 
  
  The game has a girl named Zoe running around trying to solve the mystery of what happened to her 
 boyfriend. Later you are able to play April and after that Kian. There is a little combat, but 
 it's quick and not too difficult. Getting used to it is the key. You get to see a lot of really 
 good looking areas and complete a few quests to keep the story going. 
  
  There is a previous game called The Longest Journey and I never played it, but I found the game 
 just as immersive as if I had known the previous story since everything was explained throughout 
 the game. It's not tedious and not very long. 
  
  The beginning is easy and is only a little hard in the middle when April has to move around tunnels 
 and unlock a door. The whole ending is basically like watching a movie except for a couple parts 
 where you need to walk around a little. The keyboard controls were different from any other game 
 I've played on a PC, but I found them easy to get used to and better than using the mouse.
  
  All in all, I really liked this game and feel that it had a great story, intresting characters, 
 good graphics, and pretty good voice acting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyEarthquake
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  Dreams... One of those many things that science cannot explain. A few nights ago I discovered the 
 limits of my dreams. I was dreaming doing something in my flat, and, as I knew the room layout 
 as my five fingers, I broke the flow of my dream and forced myself to open the front door. As I 
 succeeded in my task, I gazed endless oblivion of time and space. This view scared me to the very 
 depths of my heart. When I woke up, I realized - I wasn`t ready to understand my mind. Yet.
  
  Dreamfall is a sequel to the critically - acclaimed adventure game The Longest Journey. Unfortunateley 
 I haven`t played it (but I plan to) , however you won`t need any knowledge about the previous game. 
 The storyline is gripping and enthralling. we play the story through 3 very different characters. 
 
  
  The first one is Zoe - an university student, who is bored of everything and can`t find her place 
 in life. She spends her days with her father in Casablanca watching TV soaps and eating chips every 
 day, yet managing to maintain very athletic and fairly attractive figure. It all drastically changes 
 when her ex-boyfriend, a journalist dissappears. Above all, she starts seeing mystical girl *cough* 
 The RIng *cough* who contacts Zoe through TV`s. Her message is the same all the time - find April 
 Ryan, save her! 
  
  The second playable character is April Ryan - the main protagonist of the previous game. She had 
 saved the world and decided to stay in Arcadia - the parallel world of Stark (Stark is the one 
 we live in - technology world, but Arcadia is magical world) . There is a problem - the Azadi Empire 
 has occupied the northern lands, forcing their religion upon everyone. while they introduce Northland 
 citizens with technology and make the streets safer, the Azadi fear magic and those who can control 
 it. Unfortunateley April is tired of fighting, tired of being hero, tired of responsibility, and 
 every day the rebellion forces decrease as the resistance seems to be more and more pointless.
 
  
  The third fellow we play is Kian Alvane - the best Azadi warrior, fanatically faithful to Azadi 
 religion and eager to destroy anyone, who opposes the Azadi rule. He is sent to assassinate the 
 rebel leader who goes under a name of Scorpion.
  
  Even now you could guess that a story is a win. However, when one question is answered, at least 
 two pop up, causing ounces of plot holes and cliffhangers. Also there is lot of good humor in the 
 game, but I find some of the jokes inappropriate for the theme. Anyway, Dreamfall`s story is the 
 main thing what deserves a praise.
  
  Gameplay is poor or, sometimes, even nonexsistent. Mostly we walk from the point A to the point 
 B. We have to talk to other characters as well and we even have some solid dialougue options, however 
 they rarely change the end of the conversation. Yet, dialougues are written very well. Oh, yes, 
 we have some mini games here as well. There are two of them - lockpicking and hacking and only 
 Zoe must do this annoying stuff. lockpicking is very easy - all we have to do is match the right 
 color in the right lock. Might be difficult for a four-year old. Hacking is a pain. Right, what`s 
 so hard about finding 5-6 similar symbols in a square? Well, there is a painful time limit, symbols 
 are fantastically similar to each other and they tend to swap places, therefore forcing the player 
 to find the same symbols all over again. Luckily, these minigames can be encountered 4-5 times 
 in the whole game. about the puzzles - now THEY are something. I remember about 3-4 of them were 
 quite challenging. Others were a piece of cake.
  Believe it or not, Dreamfall has fight sequences. They suck. Two types of attack - fast and light, 
 heavy and painful. And a block. Enemies have no AI, they move slower than flies in glycerin and 
 overall it`s all just plain boring. Things I hated about Indigo Prophecy were stealth missions 
 and overuse of button mashing. Dreamfall has no QTE (thank God for that) , but in some places it`s 
 required to sneak. Easy, boring, unnecessary. Why, Funcom, why?
  
  Visually Dreamfall looks great. But it has practically no lip synchronization, animations lack 
 polishment and some characters look unalive, so some dramatic episodes look like an unfunny puppet 
 show. That`s wierd for a game what is so heavily concentrated on storytelling.
  
  Dreamfall`s music is good, nice to listen to, but no wish to buy game`s soundtrack. Voice acting 
 deserves 9.5/10. All characters feel like personalities, so actors have done their job well.
  
  In the end, Dreamfall isn`t neither action, neither adventure. It`s an interactive movie, just 
 like Indigo Prophecy. Only pity I feel is that, it felt unfinished. Funcom`s already confirmed 
 episodic sequels, what saddens me even more. I don`t want a serial. I want an epic. Sorry Funcom. 
 You`ve failed this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniksdi
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  I was reviewing Fable and I was looking for a classification while the category "unappreciated" 
 caught my eyes. I knew this is the perfect game to put in this category.
  
  So . . . Dreamfall is a future based action adventure game that blends you in a culture so different 
 from our own. It makes you play among several worlds through three characters which are wonderfully 
 linked to the end. The main character, the girl on the cover is some1 you start liking for her 
 realistic personality in the game . . at the end of the game you get so much involved with the 
 character that you start to treat her with respect for what she's doing, and she's quite cute :)
 
  
  The story is quite touching and the ending hits you on emotional levels.
  
  Normally I avoid this kind of games, but I am glad I got to play Dreamfall. It was like going through 
 a different world in the shoes of a girl who is as real as life can be.
  
  my vote is held back only because there was more space to improve the game. But I am quite happy 
 with what it has to offer.
  
  If you are an action adventure fan, stop waiting and grab a copy!
  
  ----------
  SDI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panos83
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  At first, I was disappointed this sequel wasn't a pure adventure game like the first legendary 
 and famous PC game, but the new adds to the gameplay like sneaking/spying/fighting and handling 
 different characters with parallel stories are smart and interesting.
  
  Some minor crits about it is that I wanted more challenging riddles and puzzles and more freedom 
 to explore and choose "paths". Also the length of the game could be so much longer because it ends 
 quite sudden, leaving you with even more questions about all the leading characters of the game.
 
  
  BUT, the storyline, characters, voice acting, graphics (new 3D design of the original's game worlds) 
 and the music were total ART. Enjoyed it a lot, although it wasn't such a "long journey", but it 
 combined perfectly the science fiction VS fairy tales atmosphere just like the first game did. 
 If you liked the first game then you are going to "forgive" all the above negative crits for sure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulburner88
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 16, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Interesting, but it still seems something`s missing. The storyline is a blend of fantastic and 
 sci-fi elements taking you in two different worlds, and playing two different characters. When 
 things get interesting with one character, the game switches to the other, making you lose all 
 the enthusiasm and pulls you out of that world. The graphics seem to be made hasty but agreeable. 
 Sounds are good, even if the voice acting seems somewhat artificial, except for Zoe. Level desigs 
 are also trying to show you something fantastic and beautiful but they rarely succeed because of 
 the hasty made graphics. The combat ... ohh, the combat, well I don`t know if it could be more 
 elementary than it is and so boring, sometimes even frustrating. Lock picking and bypassing security 
 is well made, somethimes a bit difficult in comparison with the games overall difficulty. The puzzles 
 are easy, and somethimes really stupid, for an adventure game. Overall, it`s not a bad game, but 
 it could have been much better... worth`s playing if you`re a die hard fan of the previous one. 
 The idea is good, but it has been presented weakly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotsnn1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  
  
  No game has had such a profound effect on me as The Longest Journey series.
  
  Dreamfall is the second instalment in this series, which began with the original and first part 
 of the saga, The Longest Journey.
  
  The world, or worlds, that Ragnar Tornquist has created for this spectacular adventure is truly 
 inspired and captivating. Its amazing history and storyline coupled with a stunning atmosphere, 
 creates two settings that compliment one another but are so diverse, that travelling between them 
 is a unique and fulfilling experience.
  
  The world of Stark is one of science & technology, and is our world in the near future; it is here 
 we begin our journey in both games. The world of Arcadia is one of magic, where anything is possible, 
 and is where our characters travel. While Stark and Arcadia exist as parallel worlds, there are 
 other pseudo realities both between and outside this symbiosis; these are mysterious, sometimes 
 ominous places without which there could be no worlds at all.
  
  The main characters you play as (April Ryan & Zo Castillo) are layered and well thought out to 
 the point you can feel a genuine bond with them and care deeply for them. Both of these protagonists 
 are torn from their normal everyday lives and obscurity, and compelled to embark on this journey, 
 involuntarily having great responsibility thrust upon them. All the characters you meet on this 
 journey have been created with the same attention to detail, and diligent care as the ones you 
 play, and they evolve with the story, which gives you the sense that you really know and enjoy 
 interacting with them.
  
  Dreamfall picks up the storyline with a new main character, which you instantly can relate to and 
 like. The plots come together seamlessly and bring the story forward, but the game play evolves 
 from beautifully drawn 2D backdrops, to spectacular 3D environments full of detail and atmosphere, 
 which is helped by an excellent musical score and professional voice acting.
  The third person view and simple world interaction are instantly accessible for even the casual 
 gamer. The puzzles are never so difficult as to greatly hinder your progress and interfere with 
 the story progression.
  Playing the game blends gaming with storytelling like no other series has, and is a fulfilling 
 experience from start to finish. This is not a fast paced thrill a minute ride, but an adventure 
 which will bring you to emotional heights that you didn't think possible in any game.
  
  Dreamfall can be enjoyed even if you haven't played the The Longest Journey, as you are brought 
 up to speed quickly enough with regards to the story so far, but it is recommended you play them 
 in order, it is such a pleasure to see the original environments recreated and more immersive than 
 ever, and to be reacquainted with old friends.
  
  The story appeals to anyone who has experienced life in general. Who has never been faced with 
 a new challenge or task, who has not faced a change from childhood to adulthood, or been lost and 
 disillusioned without clear direction. Its the struggle we all face, and it's shown so well in 
 this journey.
  The Longest Journey is a story about everyone's life, told in a fantastic and imaginative way. 
 A wonderful tale, with a real message given in a surreal environment.
  
  This is perfected storytelling in a solid game, and will leave you anxiously awaiting the next 
 instalment in the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  This does not feel like a game as such but more of a PC driven story. The plot is very linear lacks 
 any meaningful interaction.
  
  Most progress is delivered by talking to the right npc's although some of it requires puzzle solving 
 gameplay. The gameplay aspect is frightfully easy however mainly due to the lack of interaction 
 with your environment. The items you can see or touch are few and far between making it straight 
 forward to figure out what to do to continue the story.
  
  Combat is laughable, but it happens so rarely i don't even know why they bothered adding it to 
 the game. The camera movement is so clunky and fiddle-some it takes out most of the fun for those 
 stealthy situations as well.
  
  The artwork/design is interesting and the story is refreshingly different. For people who like 
 the story to drive the game then this certainly does deliver as it has characters that are interesting 
 and a plot that unfolds in a way you would not expect. However if you like a game that has interesting 
 elements of gameplay then this unfortunately fails to deliver.
  
  There is little or no replay value to this game and will soon be forgotten once you complete it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Most games build gameplay from the ground up and add a story after that. Dreamfall, like most adventure 
 games, has been designed in the opposite manner. It begins with the story and then fits a variety 
 of gameplay elements into it. It's a good thing that Dreamfall has such an excellent story, because 
 the gameplay ranges from broken to nonexistent. Once you strip away the lengthy cut scenes and 
 dialog, what remains is an unsatisfying mix of painfully simple puzzles and half-baked stealth 
 and fighting elements. Perhaps some day, somebody will figure out a way to revive this genre in 
 a fresh way, but Dreamfall is not the game to do it.
  
  In case you didn't know already, Dreamfall is the follow-up to the 2000 hit "The Longest Journey". 
 In this story, we re-join April Ryan in Arcadia, and we are also introduced to a couple of other 
 new characters. The lead character in this game is Zoe Castillo, an aimless and depressed college 
 dropout who has recently broken up with her boyfriend, and now spends her days eating potato chips 
 and watching soap operas in her underwear (her words) . When her ex-boyfriend gets into trouble 
 an approaches her for help, she embarks on an unforgettable journey, exposing a science fiction 
 conspiracy and discovering an entire magical world. As video games stories go, the narrative in 
 Dreamfall is superb. The characters are realistic, deep and memorable, and they invoke genuine 
 feelings of sympathy. The main character, Zoe, is somebody that just about anyone can identify 
 with. The mixture of 23rd Century sci-fi and a magic parallel world is a completely unique setting. 
 The enthralling story is creative and totally unpredictable. A game like Dreamfall exposes just 
 how clich most video game stories actually are. You will never know what to expect next in this 
 game. It entices you at every turn to discover what happens next.
  
  Unfortunately, this great story comes at the expense of everything else that matters. It's not 
 enough to say that the gameplay is sub-par, because half the time, there isn't anything there. 
 A huge portion of this game involves nothing but clicking on characters to talk to them and watching 
 a lengthy conversation. You can occasionally make dialog choices, but they don't have any effect 
 upon the game. After you watch one conversation, you walk across the room and watch another conversation. 
 Or, you walk across the room, watch a loading screen, and then watch another conversation.
  
  Dialog and loading screens dominate Dreamfall. The loading screens are particularly annoying. 
 Since this game was built for the underpowered original X-Box, it is filled with tiny levels that 
 range in size from "shoebox" to "elevator". Most areas have only a few objects that you can interact 
 with and maybe five or six NPC's (at the most) , milling around. "Cities" are tiny areas that have 
 four or five people selling stuff. The graphics don't fare much better. Thanks, once again, to 
 the "lowest common denominator" design, low polygon counts and low quality, flat textures abound. 
 The game's art direction is pretty good, but it can't overcome the outdated technology that the 
 game was built for. The characters look kind of awkward too. They don't emote much at all and they 
 don't move much when they talk, except for their eyeballs. Characters stand in place fixed while 
 their eyes dart up and down, side to side, kind of like a Chuck E Cheese automaton. Some of the 
 NPC's that you meet in the streets don't move their lips at all.
  
  When you aren't walking back and forth or engaging in dialog, you are engaging in Dreamfall's painfully 
 simple or underdeveloped gameplay. The puzzles are hardly puzzles. The game will usually tell you 
 exactly what to do and then give you one or two inventory items with which to do it. This simplicity 
 is what makes the game more like a walkthrough movie than a game. The game also has a hacking minigame 
 where you do nothing but click a few symbols on a screen in accordance to a sequence at the bottom. 
 It is something that a monkey could do.
  
  The remainder of the game involves some half-hearted stealth and fighting. The stealth is rudimentary, 
 trial-and-error based, not a lot of fun, but it does at least work, and the sequences don't last 
 very long. You creep around and hide in doorways or behind objects until patrolling guards or bots 
 pass by. Fortunately, these sequences don't come up very often.
  
  The true lowlight of Dreamfall is its horrible fighting system. The fighting plays exactly like 
 what you would expect for a system half-heartedly shoehorned into the wrong game  it's awful. 
 By the time you are finished with Dreamfall, you will be dreading the occasional one-on-one battles. 
 There isn't much to the fighting. You use one button to punch, one to block or dodge, and one to 
 use a power attack. The controls are clunky and frustrating, and blocking is a basic game of Rock, 
 Paper, Scissors. Fans of The Longest Journey that are looking for a refuge from action or violence 
 in games will be sorely disappointed by these parts. Other gamers will realize the fighting to 
 be a crummy tacked on feature that it is.
  
  If there is one other positive feature of the game it is its audio. The voice acting is mostly 
 pretty good, especially for the main characters. The ambient music is great and it sports a lot 
 of variety. There is also some licensed music which is kind of emo and whiny, but not too bad.
 
  
  Dreamfall is a game that is very hard to recommend. Adventure games thrive on story, and Dreamfall 
 certainly delivers in that department. However, it fails miserably in its gameplay. The story always 
 keeps you coming back for more, but the oversimplified puzzles, mediocre stealth, and dreadful 
 fighting can make it hard to endure. Even if you loved "The Longest Journey", you might have a 
 lot of trouble getting into this game, unless story is so paramount that you are willing to overlook 
 all of the game's problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is the follow up to the 2000 adventure game, The Longest Journey, 
 a game that is widely considered one of the greatest adventures games ever made. That game introduced 
 everyone to the parallel worlds of Stark and Arcadia, Stark being a futuristic version of our world, 
 while Arcadia was a fantasy version of sorts. Both worlds balanced each other out and any sort 
 of unbalance could potentially destroy them. Enter April Ryan, a young woman who found herself 
 with the ability to freely walk through both worlds. You'll want to find out more about the story 
 in The Longest Journey yourself, but suffice to say, April turned out to be the heroine that saved 
 both worlds. Dreamfall on the other hand, centers itself around a new character, Zoe Castillo. 
 Zoe is a depressed college dropout who in the middle of her depression, decides to help out on 
 her best friends (her ex-boyfriend) with a journalistic assignment of sorts.
  
  Unfortunately for Zoe, her assignment leads to a series of events where Zoe is constantly in the 
 wrong place at the wrong time, and eventually she is introduced to the concept of the parallel 
 worlds and sent off to Arcadia. From there on the story proceeds to unfold at a leisurely pace 
 and a wonderful cast of characters is introduced to you (even characters who only appear for short 
 sequences are very memorable) . In fact, you'll re encounter the heroine from the previous game, 
 April, and you'll get to play as her too. Her role in this game is deeply connected to Zoe's role, 
 although neither knows why (nor do we) . A third playable character is also introduced, Kian, an 
 Azadi apostle (the Azadi are the people in control of parts of the world in Arcadia) who is sent 
 on a divine mission, one that certainly involves April Ryan. If the story sounds intriguing so 
 far, is because it is. It's one of the best (if not the best) pieces of science fiction ever told 
 in a game, and it's because of this that the ending is so frustrating, since it leaves virtually 
 every major question unanswered, and all we can do is anxiously wait for the follow up to this 
 amazing journey. I should mention though, that playing the original game, The Longest Journey, 
 helps clear out a lot of the confusion from Dreamfall. In fact, I strongly recommend playing that 
 game first.
  
  Dreamfall is best described as an interactive movie, rather than a game. There is some gameplay, 
 but this consists mostly of very basic fights and some basic puzzle solving. Some of the puzzles 
 actually consist of mini games, while others require you to either pay close attention to your 
 surroundings, or explore the dialog to the fullest. None of this is bad mind you, but it certainly 
 isn't the focus of the game. More than half of the game revolves around story telling; in fact, 
 I'd estimate that you'll spend more time watching cut scenes than actually playing, but that's 
 far from a bad thing. The story is so rich, that you'll simply want to know more and more about 
 it. And you'll also get some control over it, as you'll be required to make lots of important decisions 
 throughout the game, decisions that may alter in some cases the way events unfold (though for the 
 most part, they all lead to the same path) . Suffice to say is that you will get emotionally attached 
 to the game.
  
  The presentation in Dreamfall is overall excellent. The artistic design behind the gameworld is 
 spectacular, as both Stark and Arcadia are very memorable locations that you'll want to explore 
 to the fullest. The characters models all look quite sharp too, but their animations can be a bit 
 stiff, and this can sometimes reflect poorly on the cut scenes. One aspect that isn't poor in any 
 way is the audio. Whether it's the voice acting or the background music, the sounds of Dreamfall 
 are simply as good as they get. Every character is masterfully voiced and this elevates the story 
 telling to a whole new level. You will be able to feel all of their emotions pouring out during 
 the cut scenes. This isn't just movie quality stuff, it's above it. And then there's the music 
 that accompanies the game world which is beautiful at all times. It effectively conveys the mood 
 of every setting that you find yourself in, and it's another key elements in the overall experience.
 
  
  In the end, it's a crying shame that Dreamfall finishes the way it does, but then again, that's 
 the curse of being the middle chapter in a longer story. A more satisfying conclusion to this chapter 
 would have relieved the pain of not knowing what happened to all of this great characters, but 
 once the sequel comes out, all will be good (hopefully) . If you haven't played the original game 
 (TLJ) , playing through it will help you understand Dreamfall a whole lot better. With it's flaws 
 and all, Dreamfall is an amazing experience that can be recommended to anyone who appreciates the 
 art of great storytelling. Now about the sequel, Developer Funcom... we're waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatbaldguy0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is the follow-up console adventure game to the hit point-and-click 
 PC adventure game, The Longest Journey. This game is best experienced after playing the first title 
 as it seems to be more of a supplemental to the original (that's not a bad thing!) . Funcom continues 
 to pull us into this lucid world of dreams and hooks us with unique environments and the threatening 
 sense of urgency that the fate of the world rests on your shoulders.
  
  While Dreamfall wasn't quite as good as the original Longest Journey, it provides more sustenance 
 to those who lacked TLJ nourishment upon completing the first adventure. The story's pacing is 
 fairly consistent and the player is driven to unravel the plot at every turn. The story in Dreamfall 
 (as is tradition in TLJ games) is an emotionally rewarding experience as players get to piece together 
 what is really happening in the world. What really wins in Dreamfall is the concise timing of events 
 and how precise the actions portrayed fit into the overarching story.
  
  The downsides of Dreamfall are minor as only a couple come to mind: 1) the in-game combat and 2) 
 a few loose ends and the lack of ability to explore many of the ideas and places talked about in 
 the game. However, there may be solid, justifiable reasons behind these issues that softened the 
 blow for me (and perhaps others) . 
  
  Personally, combat in adventure games has never been held to high standards. I believe the fighting 
 (much like in the game ICO) wasn't really used as an additional mechanic of game play but more 
 to assert a sense of danger and possibly urgency. If anything, I believe players will take solace 
 in the fact that development resources were [successfully] used on more important aspects of the 
 game. As for exploration, here's hoping for a sequel!
  
  Overall, Dreamfall will pleasantly surprise gamers who seek something different in today's market 
 of reiterated "blah". Gamers have nothing to lose when playing this game and need only take a chance 
 to open their eyes to an expansive universe that millions have raved about time and time again. 
 If you're looking for adventure, try either of The Longest Journey games - you won't be disappointed! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pave-X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first time I played The Longest Journey: the demo wasn't that long and entertaining 
 - I have to admit that I spent several hours trying to find out how to cope with its interface 
 but the point-and-click has always been my kind of adventure. When I finally purchased the entire 
 game, I was captured by its story, its characters and... by everything in it! While not as groundbreaking 
 as other games, the graphics could be even poetic, the soundtrack was amazing and the voice acting 
 absolutely perfect. I did find one of the best game I have ever played.
  
  After some years, when my PC could manage to support it, I finally picked up Dreamfall eager to 
 find out more about the characters that I learned to love in The Longest Journey. Well, I wasn't 
 that surprised to find myself in control of the unknown Zoe Castillo but let's proceed step by 
 step.
  
  After a rather obscure beginning, you will play as Zoe, the main heroine in the game. From what 
 you'll learn about her during the first minutes of playing, she's a drop-out from university and 
 she's living in a kind of limbo of lacking of motivation and purposes in her life. In addition, 
 the game is no more set in Newport but in Casablanca 10 years later the happenings told by The 
 Longest Journey. To mark the distance from those events, a global catastrophe has happened, the 
 "Collapse": all the technologies used by mankind were no longer be able to work and, as a result, 
 criminality arose dramatically. Now there's a single syndicate protecting - better, controlling 
 - people's life, called the EYE. From this new Stark, the adventure begins...
  
  While The Longest Journey had 2D rendered backgrounds with 3D characters, Dreamfall is completely 
 in 3D. Like its predecessor, the graphics is outstanding: everything looks fabulous, from the environments 
 to the character. Sometimes, the animations are not as good as they could have been, especially 
 during the dialogs - you may find some of the noddings, expressions or others quite dumb and too 
 artificial.
  
  The sound is again incredible: the music and the effects are awesome. I still have to test the 
 quality of the English voice acting, having played the Italian dubbed version: while the dubbers 
 are finally professional actors and actresses, the translation sometimes is quite messy since some 
 quotes are delivered with the wrong tone. For example, one of the questions posed by Zoe to Dr. 
 Elena Chang in the final chapter is delivered like an exclamation... Why???? Apart from this silliness, 
 the work is without a doubt well done.
  
  Dreamfall introduces some new tweaks to the adventure formula: now we have combat sessions and 
 stealth missions. While the structure of the game is solid and well-executed, the combat is messy 
 and quite disappointing since the command response is too slow. The stealth feels too rough to 
 be judged: it works just fine for the game and that's it.
  The new control scheme - now we have to use both keyboard and mouse - is hard to master in the 
 beginning but it's a matter of an hour before you know how to cope with it, especially with the 
 Action Field.
  
  It's quite hard not to make comparisons with The Longest Journey: Dreamfall is not as long as the 
 first episode and it lacks the incredible depth of the main character. The Diary available in TLJ 
 was an amazing way to get closer to April Ryan: in Dreamfall, she's now just the third character 
 you can play throughout the game, along with Zoe and the Azadi assassin Kian Alvane. Still, the 
 characters are fully believable and the story is so catchy and well done that you'll patch up this 
 missing. Talking about patch, you'll encounter some bugs during your adventure: fortunately, they 
 aren't that harmful for your journey through Stark and Arcadia.
  
  All in all, Dreamfall is a decent sequel to a beautiful game: while it's not as perfect as we would 
 like it to be - and not as long as we wanted it to be! - it's still a great adventure to experience. 
 The story is awesome and well told, even with its hangs up and loose ends. Like every fan of the 
 series, I'm looking forward to its sequel, hoping I won't have to wait too long! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanislavski86
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  Well, on the down side the gameplay elements of Dreamfall are pretty weak. The useless implimantation 
 of combat and some rather not fun sneaking sections are probably the weakest part of this game. 
 Also, unfortunately it doesn't enough veriety and frequency of puzzles to please hard core adventure 
 gamers either...
  
  Now, since we got out all the bad elements, it is time to talk about the good ones.
  
  There 
 can be so many things say to praise this title. It was a surprise for me. I like stories and this 
 was definitly one of my favourite ones. The characters are increadibily believable and almost all 
 of them are likable. I actually have crash on Zoe (the protagonist) . The dialogue is very good. 
 Zoe has some really witty and often humourous comments.
  
  The world looks beautiful and detailed. I can't praise enought the artwork.
  
  The story telling 
 techniques used are increadible and I believe Ragnar Tornquist (the creator of the series) is a 
 great game maker and a talent in this industry.
  
  This game is about details... so many goodness comes together in such an interesting and ever flowing 
 fashion. At the end you end up wanting more. It doesn't exactly conclude, or wrap up but still 
 has such a beautiful ending that is challenging not to get emotionally moved.
  
  I am doing my 4th run through the game and I hardly found gaps in the story.
  
  If you enjoy 
 stories, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasperrussell
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  FIRST LET ME ADVISE YOU TO CHANGE THE DEFAULT CONTROLS
  they are ridiculous. The main one is inverting the horizontal mouse control.
  
  There's over 
 200 player reviews for this game so I won't try and review it as such. I'll compare it to other 
 games you might of played, so you can decide if you want to play it. I played this game over a 
 year after its release but the graphics still hold up.
  It's one of the best adventure games around. I'm an old school adventure gamer and this ticked 
 all the right boxes.
  I hated Sherlock Holmes the Awakened, so if you too hated it too - you might like this.
  The 
 closest game I can relate it to is Fahrenheit/The Indigo Prophecy. But the only puzzles that game 
 had was in the form of the young boy in the army base sequences. I criticized that game for being 
 too much of an 'experience' and not enough 'game'. To some extent Dreamfall is also guilty of this 
 but not 'marred' by it.
  Oblivion is technically a more advanced game than this in its 'open endedness' and also in its 
 combat but Dreamfall offers a more traditional Adventure game experience.
  My faith in adventure games is restored after playing this title and I definitely look forward 
 to playing sequels...
  Download it from STEAM it's cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvt88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  I had the best fun playing this game! I saw it randomly on a shelf and thought it looked interesting 
 but had never heard of it, or the prequel, now I can't wait for the final installment!
  
  I have to say, some parts of it, especially at the start freaked me out. And other parts I nearly 
 fell off my chair laughing so hard. The whole time, I was totally encapsulted with the storyline 
 and the characters. In fact, Zoe (the main character) 's accent has started to rub off on me!
  
  I loved all the interaction in this game - I can now understand why it needed so much space 
 on my laptop cuz u can interact with just about everything and everyone. The fact that you can 
 pretty much play 4 different characters throughout is a real defining feature I haven't met with 
 other strategy-adventure games.
  
  Total thumbs up, though I'm not giving it a 10 because I need to play the 3rd installment to be 
 satisfied with the ending :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon-a-Tron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Many people complain about the seemingly unnecessary action elements of this game. However, I appreciated 
 them, not as action elements, but as literary elements. Although done rather clunkily, the sneaking 
 and fighting don't so much act as a failed attempt at a mini-game, but more as an added level of 
 suspense to the environment, in that you spend a lot of time trying to avoid fights, rather than 
 spending time trying to master fighting. I feel that this helps immersion by making the player 
 feel there is real risk and danger, rather than a slowly plodding train of purely intellectual 
 puzzles.
  
  With that being said, I do feel they skimped a tiny bit on the intellectual puzzles, as compared 
 to the original Journey. I replayed the original in preparation, and found the traditional Adventuring 
 to be much more complex and involved than in Dreamfall. These chapters I feel move a bit too fast, 
 containing usually only one chain of puzzles plus an Action sequence and, of course, the requisite 
 character and plot development. I would have preferred that they ADDED Action sequence, rather 
 than REPLACING an Adventure sequence with an Action sequence.
  
  Aside from technical gameplay (Action/Adventure) , there's the issue of presentation and narrative, 
 which, if given the opportunity, I would rate a solid 11. The sets are mindblowingly beautiful, 
 to say the least. And yet they still somehow pale in comparison to the story and dialogue writing. 
 Couple this with voice acting far and away better than most movies I've seen, beautifully rendered 
 and animated characters (including a heroine that is clearly attractive without being generically 
 boobed up ) , and characters so deep and multifaceted that you can literally get lost in conversation 
 with them (example: Benrime at the Journeyman Inn) , and you've got a game that will repeatedly 
 make your jaw drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatexpka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I for one have never played an adventure game like this before. This game bring you in the future 
 where technology takes over and soon takes over your mind. This game has a couple noticeable glitches 
 witch i expected to see since they had a long story they ought to made a mistake somewhere. The 
 models in the game I would say isn't very well done in today standards... The eyes were to big 
 to me and the main character in the beginning looks like she has her eyelashes pressed into her 
 skin. But you can't expect something good out of game that is incredibly long and has a many models 
 and other objects in it. Graphics were ok but i noticed the engine they used to make the game made 
 the movement look unrealistic from fighting to making out to doing things without stuff pouring 
 out of a potion.... In other words they didn't make it look very realistic because they didn't 
 add pouring effects on bottles or other objects.. they didn't add objects like holding a key if 
 you needed to open something with a lock and many other noticeables. The sound was was good and 
 I have Bose headphones so I know the sound quality was excellent, but i didn't like some of the 
 songs they put in certain parts of the cut scenes. Overall this game was the funnest I had ever 
 since the wildfire 2007 came in California and shut down the schools. It's a great time killer 
 and I am really proud I spent my time playing this story witch I'm hopeing it wont be the end, 
 because it dose not have a happy ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Switched
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  I finally finished the game. Had is stored on the shelf for ages since it didn't work with Geforce 
 from 7th series. Patch wasn't of help either. So I played using some random machine which has some 
 random display driver and despite running slowly I managed to play it.
  
  Anyway. The storyline is great and I love the variety of scenes. Some adventure games tend to be 
 shallow, because they're limited with number of scenes you can count with fingers on one hand. 
 It wasn't the case in this game.
  
  The characters were very enjoyable, everyone had a strong story, they served a purpose, had strong 
 feelings about different things and seemed to have a personality of their own, they didn't just 
 solve puzzles. So +1 reputation for that to creators.
  
  Also, the music was beautiful and suited well. Soundtrack is definitely worth listening (if there 
 is one, haven't had a chance to check) .
  
  At some point I realised the whole thing reminds me a movie, not a game. There were endlessly cut 
 scenes, which on one hand was good, because they were very enjoyable, but on the other seemed to 
 be the biggest part of the game, and same goes with the dialogs. There were shamelessly too many 
 video clips and chit chatting and too few puzzles.
  
  When it comes to puzzles, they were way too easy in my opinion, being therefore suitable for a 
 beginner or for someone that's not too bright. Puzzles are the reason why I love these kind of 
 games and that's why I expect more from them. I must say the fighting part was just as easy so 
 it somewhat lacked both in puzzle-cracking and action part. Sneaking around gave a small adrenalin 
 rush but it wasn't enough to carry out the title for action.
  
  I loved the scenes and it looked very beautiful. It did annoy me when I saw how poorly the details 
 were made, even the brick walls seemed fake and I wished the makers had had more resources to improve 
 that part. Maybe I expected too much or maybe it was just my cpu, that wasn't good enough to deliver 
 the game in all its beauty, I don't know. Some say that controlling the camera was difficult and 
 took them days to get used to. I find it as an overstatement. It took me a prologue to get adjusted 
 (which was what, 5 min long?) . Yes, it was uncomfortable a bit but nothing impossible and didn't 
 require too much thinking when I needed to turn one way or the other, so to those who found it 
 utterly impossible, I'd recommend practicing, nothing more (can't expect to master anything at 
 once) .
  
  The ending left some questions unanswered. I hope the chapters a. k. a TLJ 3 solves that issue. Worst 
 case scenario would be to leave it for a player to fantasize how it should end (like they did it 
 with Still Life) . If you start something, better end it too, I find it lame to use the easy way 
 out . Until now all I've heard that making chapters are planned but haven't found anything more 
 that would elaborate on when and how much and what.
  
  I guess many, that have played, missed the last video clip after the credits and I can't blame 
 them. I skipped it too at first but replayed the last scenes of the ending after learning there 
 was more to be seen. So after waiting quite a bit for credits to end, hoping to see something spectacular, 
 I was once again disappointed. It wasn't nearly as satisfactory as I had anticipated. Basically 
 if anyone missed the last cut scene I can say with a clear conscience that they didn't miss anything.
 
  
  All in all, the game was intriguing ( played almost non-stop and finished in 2 days) and very enjoyable. 
 Even the shortfalls didn't make it less true. I'd sincerely recommend playing it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neonvzla
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can it be said about this game. It has gorgeous graphics and a plot that keeps you glued 
 to the computer until you are done with it, even if it takes long hours, just to see what's going 
 to happen next.
  
  The plot will take you from the moment Zoe its lying on her bed, even if just out of pity and drive 
 you through all the moments that lead her there, many of which will be either moving (and sometimes 
 even depressing) to funny one such as a everytime Crow open his beak.
  
  In the graphics department, the game looks great great if you can deal with a few animations that 
 look odd at first sight.
  
  Amazing voice acting, helps you get immersed even more in the storyline and maybe relate yourself 
 to some of the characters.
  The soundtrack is outstanding too, helps with the mood of the game and the atmosphere.
  
  Overall, 
 a great game that went under so many people's radar and didn't get the attention it deserved 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Avram
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall contains all elements that I dislike.
  
  1. Totally linear
  2. Lots of emotions and romance
  3. Main character is modern, pretty, smart  girl
  4. Main 
 supporting character is pretty, smart  girl
  5. Main supporting male character is tanned, preety, *&amp;%^! Paladin
  6. Its full of cinematics 
 (pop-corn session)
  
  So, my conclusion is : Game is FANTASTIC
  
  1. It IS linear but story is just WOW! I just cant wait for sequel. You are not sure what, who, 
 where and why but  youll have thousands of theories (and they may or mey not be correct)
  2. All emotions and romantic parts are well packed in the game (I caught myself hoping that two 
 characters will fall in love )
  3. It IS girl but hell of a girl. She will take your heart
  4. Girl again (character from Longest 
 Journey)  great link with first part of the game. You will notice that she is grown up now and 
 that she is torn apart between what she is and what others expect her to be. Another great character
 
  5. Paladin he Is paladin but after this, my next character in D&amp; D will be  paladin. He is 
 on the test of faith when he has to choose between religion, loyalty and duty on one side and 
 right thing to do on the other. Over all that, there is thin layer of strong emotions
  6. If this was movie - I would watch it And there is more 
  
  Great voice casting, interesting 
 NPCs, breath taking design and great world
  
  Nice 3D engine (camera rotation is little tricky but youll get used to it) , great landscapes, 
 simple combat system 
  
  Lots of small games which will break monotony (if any)
  
  Problems of old P&amp; C adventures are removed, so you will find solution to every problem. Still 
 there is feeling that you are playing point &amp; click adventure from good old times
  
  There are good twists in story and they will surprise you often change of main character let you 
 see story from different angles  and that is  AMAZING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark-Harsen
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 9, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  The game had good 3D graphics, but the controls were a bit bulky and hard to get used to, especially 
 if you don't play the game straight through - I rarely have the time to do so. The story was interesting, 
 but too easy, and the ending was very, very bad. You were led by the hand the whole way. In this 
 day and age, we need parallel paths instead of just one path and often you didnt even have a choice 
 as the computer took over and made all of the moves for you. These long periods of sitting back 
 and watching the game progress by itself were far too plentiful and far too long. I clocked one 
 such movie at 18 minutes, give or take.
  
  This game is supposed to be an adventure game where you think about puzzles and problem solving 
 but the only puzzles offered were very simplistic and very rare. If all you want is good graphics, 
 go play this  but if you want a good story line and rich entertainment youd be better off watching 
 a good movie instead. The game was ultimately dull, boring, and hugely disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxiM_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I give this insane game score of 9,5 with a pain in my heart, because i wanted to rate it 10. Only 
 thing that stopped me was the ending, that was a bit of a letdown. But only a tiny wee bit, really. 
 This game is astonishing. It stole my heart right away and there were those moments that really 
 moisted my eyes more than usual.
  The adult-humor was great: COCK and a PUSS, Salty Sea-men... oh man, that's just top of it :D
 
  
  But i sweat i'll kill the makers of DF: TLJ if they won't make a sequel any time soon. Too many 
 loose ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowyjoe
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey, is a sequal to the all time greatest adventure game, The Longest 
 Journey. These games are what you can call a interactive movie. They have a very deep story line, 
 amazing voice acting, and wonderful music. The amazing thing about The Longest Journey, and Dreamfall: 
 The Longest Journey is that you always know what to do. The dialoge in the cut scenes acturally 
 tell you what you need to do next, or what you need to be looking for, unlike other games how they 
 will give you story then after that you are left looking around how to get to ther next for 1 tor 
 2 hours. Dreamfall isn't a click fest either. Mostly anything in the world you can interact with (even 
 thought you can't do anything to it, Zoe will tell you what it is or what she thinks about it) . 
 So you can't just click anywhere on the screen and pick up stuff and go to the next level.
  Also, all the elements are placed will, the objects you need to pick up or find, arn't hidden under 
 some old newspaper, or at the edge of the screen, if you get stuck all you have to do is look inside 
 your inventory and think for a while, then va la! you got it!
  
  Where Dreamfall lakes most is the choice making. It seems like they are giving you a chocie but 
 they really not. Even if you choose to invite someone to a party or not invite him, it dose not 
 really change the dialoge or the story because the outcome will be the same. Also they try to spice 
 it up with a bit of combat but this is also poorly put together, it's like they put it in here 
 so people will get interacted with the game, rather than feel like their watching a 10 hour movie. 
 The puzzels are also quite simple, they do somtimes tease your brain, but most of the time you 
 know what to do strait away. But this in a way is a good thing because you're not stuck in one 
 puzzle for hours trying to figure what to do.
  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey, is not like one of those adventure games you would buy because 
 you are bored, or have nothing to do, when playing Dreamfall you get right into the story and want 
 to know more, only the first 5 mins of the game would you feel like you are wasting your time, 
 after that you just want to keep on playing. Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is a must get for the 
 Longest Journey fans, and a great game for movie lovers, that love deep and rich stories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaceAlex
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  *Please note that this review is merely my opinion, and should be viewed as such. If you don't 
 agree with it, there is no need to get angry at me for having my own opinion. I respect everyone's 
 opinions, and never demand from people to agree with me.*
  
  Ah, i get excited every-time a game with a good storyline comes out. It's just something i can't 
 miss. And that is what this game is all about... the story. I enjoyed every minute of it, and i'm 
 not easy to please. That should tell you just how well the storyline is thought out. Even after 
 i completed the game, i couldn't stop thinking about this game for a while. I started making up 
 my own stories set in the Dreamfall universe, which also answered some of the many questions that 
 were left unanswered in the game. My explanations will most likely be proven wrong when the sequel 
 arrives (which was already announced) , so i will not bother typing them here.
  
  Graphically, this game looks sweet. The environments are beautifully done, the art team has really 
 done a phenomenal job on this game. The character models could be better (aside from the main characters, 
 which look great) , but their lack of detail is not too distracting. The lip sync is also not very 
 smooth, but it gets the job done. On a positive side, the loading times are very short (1-3 sec) 
 and the game should run well even on a 3+ years old PC's .
  
  There's not much to tell about the game-play, to tell the truth. The game is very simple. You control 
 your character just like in any other game, using your keyboard and mouse. You can interact with 
 usable objects and all NPC's, but only the main characters are important to the storyline. There 
 is some combat in the game, but it is very simple. The game also features puzzles, which are pretty 
 straightforward, but still enjoyable, IMO.
  
  The sound is excellent (features Dolby Digital and EAX) and the music is every bit as amazing as 
 the storyline. It fits perfectly into the game. The voice acting is generally well done. A few 
 characters sound lifeless, but most sound great .
  
  All in all, i recommend this game for anyone that's looking for a game with a storyline (even if 
 you haven't played the first game) that will keep you interested all the way through. I was literary 
 glued to my computer for 16 hours (that's how long it lasts to finish the game) . The storyline 
 is just that deep.
  
  Have fun and happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yellowinja
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is about the lives of three different characters that are able to 
 shift from the real world to the dream world. Without giving too many spoilers away, the game begins 
 with the main character Zo&euml; (pronounced like Zoey) Castillo, a young adult who is depressed 
 from the recent breakup with her ex, Reza and bored because she has nothing to do ever since she 
 dropped out of college. Just when Zo&euml; is mindlessly wasting her life watching television and 
 going to the gym, Zo&euml; stumbles upon an unusual conspiracy that happens to revolve around her 
 ex. Zo&euml; decides to investigate this conspiracy which leads her to discover her greater purpose 
 in life.
  
  The gameplay in Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is almost never present. Instead, the player will 
 listen to long stretches of dialog for the majority of the game. If you wanted to actually PLAY 
 a game, Dreamfall is not for you. In other words Dreamfall is more like an interactive sci-fi movie 
 or novel, in which the player instructs what the character says, where the character goes and how 
 the character solves the puzzles. In the sequences when there is no dialog, the player controls 
 the character directly using the default wasd controls and can interact with specific items/characters 
 when a box appears on them. In addition, each character has an inventory in which she/he can learn 
 about the items, combine the items and use the items. Even though there are multiple ways to interact 
 with a person and solve a puzzle, the game eventually leads the player to the same result.
  
  In the rare times when there is fighting, the players enter into a combat mode in which all 
 controls are disabled, except for the movement controls and the fighting controls (so you cant 
 use your inventory and throw something at an enemy, for example) . The combat is fairly basic with 
 a paper-rock-scissors type format (weak attack &gt; strong attack &gt; block &gt; weak attack) . 
 Combat never gets incredibly difficult, but button mashing will definitely make it harder than 
 it is (However, there are several sequences in which combat will always get the character killed 
 because that character supposedly had to avoid these certain enemies.) .
  
  The most frustrating aspects of Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is the controls and the camera work 
 in free-play sequences. The controls of the game feel very clunky and disorientating, even after 
 changing the mouse and button assignments. The camera also has problems of its own because it sometimes 
 gets stuck on the ceilings of small rooms. The controls definitely feel like they were meant to 
 be played using a gamepad. Despite all these chagrins, you will eventually get used to the annoying 
 controls.
  
  Graphically, Dreamfall can be considered at par for a game made only last year. Dreamfall doesnt 
 reach any high graphical achievements like GoW or other games made in 2006, but there are distinct 
 artistic visuals that prevent it from becoming sub-par. At the highest settings, Dreamfall looks 
 very crisp and clean with very little noticeable jagged edges. The game pays strict attention to 
 details, as the player can notice the small accessories that the character wears as well as the 
 realistic looking items. Dreamfalls crisp details do have a cost however; there are times where 
 the game may feel a bit claustrophobic as the character is often enclosed by buildings or walls. 
 The game also often has loading times which load quickly, but still becomes a nuisance.
  
  The sound of Dreamfall is its greatest strength. Dreamfall has full voice acting for all of its 
 dialog sequences. The voice acting is incredibly well done and very believable due to the camera 
 work and how the characters act during the dialog sequences. When a character is trying to be serious, 
 the player can immediately notice how the camera zooms in the persons face as well as notice how 
 the characters eyelids are opened wider. When a character is trying to be more sarcastic, the 
 player can hear a specific sarcastic tone and see how the character rolls her/his eyelids. The 
 dialog sequences definitely add a unique quality to the game and prevent it from becoming like 
 any other generic adventure game. However the dialog sequences do feel a bit stretched at times, 
 with some sequences lasting approximately 10 minutes. Fortunately the player can skip the dialog 
 sequences, even though the dialog sequences is the games best aspect.
  
  The game clocks in about 20 hours with half of the time spent on long dialogs. There isnt any 
 incentive to replay the game other than to choose different dialog sequences (even though I mentioned 
 before that they eventually have the same result) or to learn more about the story. Dreamfall isnt 
 the kind of game that you would even first consider buying, but it may be worth it to some people 
 who like strong storylines and sci-fi novels/movies. Sadly the game does end at a low note because 
 it presents more questions than answers. Nevertheless Dreamfall is still fun to play as well as 
 to watch and to hear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSergeant
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Six years ago, designer Ragnar Trnquist rocked the adventure game genre by introducing The Longest 
 Journey. An epic tale featuring a down-to-earth female protagonist, compelling supporting characters, 
 and fantastic worlds of science and magic. This theme was not only continued, but made infinitely 
 better in Dreamfall: The Longest Journey.
  
  Dreamfall revisits the world of Stark, Arcadia, and introduces a new dimension, The Winter. Stark 
 is essentially our world set in the distant future. Arcadia is a sister world to our own, occupying 
 the same space but on a different plane of existence where magic takes the place of science. The 
 Winter appears to be an "in between" land where all dreams begin and end. The lore of the series 
 holds that at one time, Stark and Arcadia were both one world, but a cataclysmic event triggered 
 by human ambition caused the two worlds to be separated and made ignorant of each other's existence 
 to prevent another cataclysm.
  
  At the start of the game we are shown the metropolitan city of Casablanca where we meet Zo Castillo, 
 one of the game's three main characters. Zo is a young woman who has become disillusioned with 
 her life. She has left her boyfriend of many years (on good terms) , she has dropped out of college, 
 and she can't find a driving ambition or ideal to guide her life to - a problem far from uncommon 
 in young adults today, which only makes her more relatable to from the offset. Through a series 
 of strange events, she is put on the trail of a corporate conspiracy related to an upcoming product 
 that will use dreams for entertainment. While under the effects of this product, Zo is able to 
 project herself into Arcadia, and learns that the barrier between the worlds may not be as strong 
 as its creators intended.
  
  Meanwhile, April Ryan - the main character from the previous game - has cut herself off from all 
 contact with her old life and has become a freedom fighter against an oppressive nation trying 
 to expand its influence in Arcadia, the Azadi Empire. While playing as April, there is the impression 
 that the uncertainty of her old life is still there, but hidden behind her mission to defeat the 
 Azadi. There are times when she and Zo end up working together for a common goal, but it is always 
 short lived as April cannot bring herself to get involved in the affairs of Stark again.
  
  The last main character to fill out the cast is Kian Alvane, an Azadi soldier and essentially a 
 crusader/assassin. His motivating force is his faith and loyalty to the Empire. The Azadi themselves 
 are an interesting culture that have Middle Eastern themes supplimented by a matriarchal class 
 structure. Kian is dispatched west to combat the insurgent forces that have been delaying the Empire's 
 efforts in the region, though he will learn that the lines between right and wrong are not as thick 
 as his faith once made them.
  
  It may be difficult to see the connections between the various plot lines and, unfortunately, many 
 are left unresolved at the end of the game. Dreamfall was, I suspect, designed to be akin to the 
 second film in a trilogy. It expands on the themes set out in its predecessor, but leaves it to 
 the next instalment to tie up all the loose ends. This is a first for games as far as I know and, 
 sadly, makes Dreamfall frustrating at the end as you might get the urge to scream at your computer, 
 demanding that it tell you the rest of the story. However, in my opinion that only makes the storytelling 
 all the more masterful.
  
  Dreamfall will make you truly care about its characters. There are strong themes throughout the 
 storyline that are really delivered well; life, death, faith, dreams, freedom, love... my male ego 
 will never let me say anything beyond this; people who say video games won't be an art form until 
 they can make someone cry should play this one.
  
  Storyline aside, Dreamfall features a top-notch voice acting cast to add life and depth to its 
 characters. The musical score uses an interesting blend of modern styled songs and classical orchestral 
 themes depending on where you are or what's happening, and it's all appropriately presented. The 
 graphics are superb, on par with anything you would expect from current gaming systems. The gameplay 
 for the PC version is a little difficult, it appears better suited to the Xbox controllers but 
 a little fiddling with the mouse and keyboard control settings should get make it manageable if 
 you're having trouble.
  
  Being fully 3D, Dreamfall does an excellent job of carrying over the mechanics of a point and click 
 adventure to the new medium. Unfortunately there are not as many things to "look at" or have described 
 to you as there might have been with the older method of using pre-drawn backgrounds, but its not 
 a bad trade off. The puzzles are less difficult than they were in The Longest Journey and while 
 there is a combat system, it is not very complicated and requires very little skill to master. 
 I would have like to see those two elements fleshed out a bit more as a fair amount of the game 
 revolves around going through dialogue trees or watching scripted in-game cut scenes, at times 
 making it more of an interactive movie than a game.
  
  The Longest Journey and Dreamfall have set the bar for interactive storytelling. Designers who 
 tout their game's campaign should look here first and see how they compare before getting too cocky.
 
  
  I can't wait for this series to continue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I've always enjoyed these adventure games and this particular title stands out, out of all the 
 greatness of games in the same genre. The first thing to send goosebumps down your spine right 
 from the title screen is the soundtrack, no longer are you treated to some simple tunes but the 
 audio can easily be mistaken to be from a high-end production film - a tremendous achievement which 
 brings gaming closer to an art form. The game starts off with you controlling Brian Westhouse - 
 who actually does not seem all that integral to the entire game - but really sets off a mystical 
 vibe to the game you are about to undertake. And then in peculiar fashion you control Zoe Castillo 
 (the 'real protagonist' of this game) . It seems that she is in a coma and the voice talking to 
 you the gamer, is her from an out-of-body experience. She tells of her experience of 2 weeks earlier... this 
 is when the game really starts.
  
  Zoe Castillo, feeling run down, currently unemployed and recently split from her boyfriend, wakes 
 up for another morning. Her schedule involves going to the gym and - that's it. After a good tutorial-esque 
 fight at the gym... it seems your ex-boyfriend reporter had dug up some dirt on a large corporation 
 and is in deep trouble. It's not long before you yourself is caught up in it all. With her amiable 
 appearances and voice, you'll develop a connection with your character very quickly and the game 
 has already drawn you in.
  
  The second thing to wow you is the sheer presentation- audio and graphics go hand in hand. Airships 
 are futuristically styled, the town is given life with people and conversations are convincing. 
 The audio plays a large part in this but the art direction contributes just as well. Camera angles 
 are panned well in unfolding cut scenes and the audio is fitting, giving you the gamer something 
 to marvel at. And that's a good thing, because the gameplay, to begin with, is very simplistic, 
 tasks involve reaching one place to another and having conversations along the way and the game 
 leads you by the hand all the while. To be honest, small objectives or tasks are made painfully 
 obvious which makes you wonder if you are actually playing the game of watching a movie. Thankfully, 
 it's not the latter. You will pick up items, combine them, use them on objects or people, and is 
 very satisfying - although somewhat 'easy' or obvious when compared to other games in the same 
 genre. Because of this, it may even seem that you have hardly 'played the game' because of what 
 gameplay there is, you've blasted through it already. Even though this can come off as negative, 
 it actually helps the experience somewhat as the pacing through the plots and twists draws the 
 gamer in further.
  
  The combat is very simplistic with a strong/weak attack (plus directional) and a block, but rightfully 
 so - the game is not combat orientated but necessary in parts of the story and is sufficient. Enemys' 
 attack patterns are single-natured and homogeneous which makes it easy to exploit. But let's not 
 detract from the game itself, it's an adventure game and you'll be talking to many characters with 
 very convincing voices (and it should be! just look at the list of voice actors in the credits!) . 
 You're whisked to several varied, well-crafted locations including run-down cities, sewers, dream 
 worlds, laboratories, ye olde townes, a 'magical' world and even a museum in Japan. You also take 
 control of other characters during the game and it throws some good variability into the game but 
 also shows you different perspectives from different sides.
  
  Other than the typical adventure gameplay, there is also a lot of sneaking around to be done. Actually, 
 a few times the game gives you the choice to sneak around or to just go out fighting. There are 
 times when you must sneak and it pulls it off very well. Objects on the floor can create noise 
 even when in sneaking mode or there is a time when you can match your movement to the noise of 
 the environments. The sneaking definitely gives the game an edge in the action department. Then 
 there are the lock-picking/hacking puzzles (executed with your lock pick of mobile phone) which 
 were.. ok. There is also a very small issue with the camera angle in tight spaces but other than 
 that, it is very easy to control with the right analogue stick. I should also mention, i played 
 this with the 360 controller and is perfectly set up from the get-go, no messing about here.
  
  The dialogue is excellently convincing and it lets you choose what to say, although the conversations 
 are often very linear it gives you the choice of what to hear and whether you want to learn more. 
 At one point, you actually control both persons in a conversation- controlling the way the conversation 
 is headed. This game IS an adventure game afterall and it does have the negatives of typical adventure 
 games- It's very linear and consequently progress can be easily halted by one small simple and 
 obvious thing and at times, you may not feel like going through all the dialogue. The game however 
 does well in trying to combat these problems by making things a little bit easier to solve, giving 
 you the option of skipping dialogue and giving you a 'diary' to track what must be done. Overall, 
 the game was of decent length but felt as if you had been through a lot because of how fast you 
 moved between locations and how many people you talked to. The game does really well in building 
 up a plot with breathtaking presentation, but the ending feels unexpected or underwhelming towards 
 the end of the game; It didn't really give a satisfying end to the whole game. Although the songs 
 used in the long scenes at the end really gave it some emotional impact, the conclusion and the 
 way some things are left unanswered is very disappointing. However, the journey itself, ah, The 
 Longest Journey has been a worthwhile experience that every gamer should try. The basic puzzles 
 and gentle leading-by-the-hand nature of the game makes this a suitable adventure game for those 
 who don't like the genre or have often found themselves stuck or confused in games of this genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 18, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  Yes... I ought to say many things are good in this game like acting, casting, music and beautiful 
 backgrounds but it's all boring. At first look, it's supposed to feature some action but when it's 
 time to act and attack I really felt like I've got to hit mosquitoes or flies or ants. It was so 
 silly. I mean the way they act and attack, their posture while they're fighting with someone, the 
 way they play with their swords and so on. So it'd be better for them not to include these kind 
 of scenes so that we may just rank this game as an Adventure not an (Silly) Action/Adventure. Another 
 annoying thing about this game is mostly the player's got to run long and boring paths around to 
 complete an objective or gain or get something. It gets worst when sometimes he/she has to walk 
 the same paths from time to time. It IS boring.
  The two things I liked about the game are its magnificent background views and the bright envnmnt 
 of the game with so much vivid colours.
  At the end I might say that I shall NOT recommend this game to anyone and like my friend I want 
 my money back very quckly! LOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king12kong12
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is the sequel to the popular adventure game The Longest Journey, 
 and doesn't quite live up to it's successor. Dreamfall plays out as your average adventure game. 
 From the 3rd person perspective, you run around collecting items, talking to people, and solving 
 puzzles. You play the game as Zoe, a young woman whose life has suddenly become very unfulfilling. 
 This doesn't last long as she is suddenly thrust into an adventure involving an evil corporation, 
 the ghost of a little girl, and a parallel universe. There are many twists and turns in this game, 
 including a prolonged cameo from the hero of the first game.
  
  The gameplay is where this game is lacking the most. The puzzles are all super easy and require 
 little to no thought at all. Your path throughout the game is also very linear, with little chance 
 to just go off exploring. The game also throws you into a couple of combat situations throughout 
 your adventure. The combat is very basic with only three moves: strong attack, weak attack, and 
 block. These rare events also don't pose much of a challenge.
  
  Where this game shines is with the story and characters. The only reason I finished the game was 
 to see the rest of the story. It almost feels like playing a movie. The story is engaging as well 
 as the characters. You will meet a large variety of different people, all of which have unique 
 personalities and stories to share.
  
  The graphics of this game are also superb. You will visit a variety of locations, all of which 
 look amazing. The character models also look great. The sound is also very well done in this game. 
 While the soundtrack is not particularly note-worthy, the voice acting of the characters is. All 
 the characters sound great and help immerse you into their world. My personal favorite is Zoe's 
 robotic companion who has a very deep and pleasant voice.
  
  Since the story is the main reason to play this game, there is very little replay value once you 
 beat it once. Play this game if you enjoy a really good story, but don't expect the gameplay having 
 you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grillo87
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Well i&acute; ve to said that I&acute; ve mixed reactions about this game, in one part I could say 
 that is better than many others actual games, but it isn&acute; t definitely a representative sequel 
 for the greatest longest journey.
  The story is very good, it notice that the writers do their jobs, also the music is very cool, 
 but when we talk about the gameplay I could say that is far from good, I don&acute; t know if I&acute; m 
 an old school gamer but I definitely prefer the point and click system over this strange gameplay 
 that I think doesn&acute; t match with adventures games, it is ok with games like Tomb Raider but 
 no for an adventure game, at least that is my opinion.
  Other thing that I like about this game is the three characters story, it felt very good that seems 
 three different points of a same story and find the connections between their, but I think they 
 could use a little bit deeper the Azzadi character, I don&acute; t remember the name, but I think 
 there was so much they could do to get much depper with this character.
  Well in conclusion, Dreamfall isn&acute; t a bad game but is far to be what you expect for a sequel 
 of The Longest Journey, that give a rebird to the adventures games in these days, so we have to 
 hope for the third part, that create me mixed reactions about be episodic, it could be a great 
 like Sam and Max, or it could be a failure, the time would tell, in my country said that El que 
 no arriesga no gana let see if they win or fail with the last part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starcraftvirus
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Muy facil..... ya no hay juegos de aventura grafica como los de antes. Yo solia divertirme jugando 
 Mokey Island o Grim Fandango, Indiana Jones, etc. Este intento de Jueguito con obstaculos mentales 
 para ni&ntilde; os de 5 a&ntilde; os no es mas que una pelicula mediocre.... pasaba mas tiempo mirando 
 dialogos que resolviendo acertijos..... y eso que soy fanatico de los final fantansy..... Malo 
 Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo 
 Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo 
 Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo 
 Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo Malo 
 Malo Malo Malo Malo ...
  
  
  FALTA AGREGAR ALGO MAS O QUEDO CLARO? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noclippin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I am currently walking through all the adventure games on gamespot, starting with the best rated 
 and going down from there, before i did this i played Dreamfall and i can without doubt say that 
 it's one of the best i've played so far!
  
  Comparing it to the longest journey it's not quite so deep, but it still made we want a lot more, 
 and the company that made the game has promised to release an ending, either in the form of a game 
 or a book or something.
  
  The story itself is a little hard to understand all the way through, but it's still incredible!
 
  
  I love the way you can see the similarities to the longest journey :)
  
  If i were to rate the adventure games i've played so far id do it like this.
  
  1- Grim fandango
 
  2- Dreamfall
  3- Longest Journey
  4- Syberia 1
  6- All of the Monkey islands (there is 4)
  7- Syberia 2
  
  It's hard to give them a gamespot 
 rating since most of the game graphics are outdated and comparing to todays standards most of them 
 would recieve 1, hehe.
  
  Id advice anyone with a thirst for adventure games to go nuts with the ones ive written above.
 
  They are all GREAT games that u won't soon forget :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TROAB
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 21, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  There were so many things wrong with this potentially great game that I don't know where to begin. 
 I just completed the game about 10 minutes ago, and please keep in mind that I started this game 
 with a very positive attitude. So let's break it down by category:
  
  Gameplay: What gameplay? Run from A to B. Watch a conversation or cut scene. Maybe pick up an item. 
 Not surwe what to do? Don't worry the characters will all but tell you how to solve the problem.. 
 all 4 problems you come across the whole game. This had the gameplay style of a game meant for 
 toddlers, but with dialogue obviously meant for intelligent adults. Look folks, if you want to 
 make a movie instead of game then your quality had better be up there with Pixar.
  
  As for the problems/puzzles you do have to solve, they are either one or the other: too easy to 
 mention or too difficult to bother with. And there are not many of them. One such puzzle involved 
 using a few buttons to mimic a short melody, however there is no way to repeat the melody without 
 reloading a saved game (no way that I could find anyways) so even though I solved the puzzle, I 
 had to cheat to get by it.
  
  As for the simpler puzzles or item based problems, the game is played in a series of closed environments, 
 and eerytime you move to a new chapter and new environment, your inventory clears out of everythign 
 you don't need. So basicvalyl there are only a few items you can actually pick up and you pretty 
 much KNOW you need them to solve the ONE problem in that environment.
  
  Give the gamer a little respect!
  
  Story: The story here has been getting alot of praise, 
 but I'm going the other route here: I'm disappointed. If the writers had a solid binding plot under 
 there, then they did not communicate. What I saw was a series of events strung together with no 
 real binding elements ever shown. Characters flitted in and out. Hamfisted acting and writing was 
 used to tell us things rather than show us. Certain characters repeated certain words and phrases 
 so often that they were very difficult to believe.
  
  It wuld have been much easier to buy into the character relationships and setting if they had done 
 more show me and less tell me. I won't get into more detail here so as no to spoil anything, but 
 there isn't much in my opinion to spoil, it's not like they explain anything in the end.
  
  Basically the story is at points so glaring that they force you to understand things and thus you 
 don't really buy in on an emotiional level, and other times so insanely ambiguous that i am fairly 
 certainthe writers really didn't know how to tie the points together so they just decided to not 
 try and that we the audience would assume it was subtlety. 
  
  Look nobody likes a complainer, but honestly this game has been getting so much praise that I felt 
 I needed to take the negative route.
  
  Th story would have been fine if we had much better gameplay, but as it was I conidered this a 
 movie that required me to move the character along. In that light, this story does not hold a candle 
 to most CG movie out there today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frozen_Angel19
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall - The Longest Journey is a sequel to Funcom's game, The Longest Journey, which was released 
 in 1999.
  
  The player gets to experience a very unique and interesting story through amazing graphics, characters 
 and music in this awesome game.
  
  The story in the game is very interesting and unique, it keeps the player's interest up all the 
 way to the end and leaves you wanting more. Even though it's a sequel, it's very easy to follow 
 the storyline, you never fall behind. There is no endless wondering around and hardly ever any 
 question of what to do next. The controls in the game are very simple and easy to use, although 
 the fact that you can't assign the controls to more than to limited amount of keys can be frustrating 
 at the start if you need to reconfigure them. Unfortunately the whole keyboard is not assignable.
 
  
  The graphics are amazing, I was very surprised to notice how smoothly the game runs on my computer 
 which is not the most powerful. The environment always looks very nice, with many cool details 
 in the environment, such as rain, sunshine and shadows. Also the floors and walls have their right 
 looking textures on them, for example you can see from the floor that it's raining outside.
  
  Music and voice acting in the game are amazing, it's really good and seems that a lot of effort 
 has been put into creating them. The music in the game is very well made and it's not bad in any 
 part. It's been used well to create the right atmosphere at the right time.
  
  One of the features i love in this game is that you can play with different characters as the story 
 goes on, this brings refreshing change to the game and you get to know more about the characters 
 and see the world from their point of view.
  
  One of the things I must give credit for is the automatic save system. The game is always saved 
 before a tricky part or a possible death, which is a brilliant idea.
  
  The game is not perfect though. I found the combat system to be the quite difficult to master, 
 and the fact that i can't assign the controls the way i want to, was quite frustrating at the beginning. 
 However, the combat system is not impossible to learn, it just takes a bit of practice and some 
 nerves.
  
  I recommend Dreamfall to anyone who likes adventure games and a good plot, the players who have 
 enjoyed the original The Longest Journey, will definitely love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 465400
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall is an adventure game that runs from it's labeled category, it would properly fit as a 
 Story-Telling Game.
  In Dreamfall: The Longest Journey the player doesn't have to concern in leveling or defeating hard 
 bosses (and it's a negative point for the similar category RPG fans) , instead, just having time 
 to listen (and listen) dialogues that may contain from funny sexually content jokes to villager's 
 archaic English selling methods.
  Immersing in the plot is an easy task since the game has an intriguing story with an astonished 
 environment, while playing the game you'll realize that every 3D polygon of the game was made for 
 that special moment.
  It doesn't have a multi-player mode, neither it is suitable to play whenever you want with your 
 friends, that's because it has a complex yet entertaining story hard to understanding or explaining 
 in a short period.
  Still, Dreamfall is suitable for those who want a good plot, amazing graphics, design and marvelous 
 voice dubbing to spend in some weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isara14
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  this game has almost everything perfect.... its graphic is lovely, the sound is good, the gameplay 
 is simple, yet so interesting... the story is not too short now i must say i'm one of the fans 
 of adventure games although i didnt used to be at all... thanks to this game! the story is amazing, 
 and everything helps keep me on track of the game, and keep me seated on my chair to keep playing 
 this game as long as i can i'd really recommend this game to everyone of any age out there! u wont 
 be disappointed at all.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtkt15
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  If you love games with an incredible story, you are really going to love Dreamfall. After finishing 
 the game, believe me, you are still going to be thinking about it for some time. However, what 
 makes this game great also makes it somewhat disappointing. There are many mysteries to unravel 
 and unfortunately, we will have to wait until the next installment for this.
  
  The 3D environments are a great departure from the static pixel hunting environments of typical 
 adventure games. This shift to 3D really increases the immersive factor of the game and I am really 
 glad the designers decided on this route.
  
  The voice acting and music are just superb. Gameplay basically involves solving puzzles, matching 
 symbols and the occasional sneaking or fighting sequences. In my opinion, these gameplay elements 
 are adequately balanced. The fighting sequences may be somewhat simplistic but this is okay since 
 we are not talking about an action game. The puzzles are relatively simpler than TLJ but this is 
 a good thing as it keeps the engrossing story moving. I can't tell you how incredible frustrating 
 it can get when you have to run around the same areas searching for clues to puzzles or items to 
 solve puzzles that sometimes do not make much sense.
  
  Overall, I love this game particularly because of the memorable cast of characters and the incredible 
 story. I can't wait for the next installment :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zathri
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to see how or why a game will be good/bad in certain areas during development. Looking 
 back on it, there's a lot of editing that could have been made to improve the game's story and 
 overall game play experience. The environments were absolutely beautiful on maximum quality as 
 well as creative. The only true negative was the obvious attempts to block off certain passageways 
 or locked doors. There was no real sense of exploration in the game. Much of the game is simply 
 watching your character run back and forth or having the story told to you. And that's where the 
 game truly shines. The storyline is excellent. It was more of a movie than a game.
  
  The puzzles were generally go here, return, go back, and return again. None of them were difficult 
 nor of the same type as the first game. The game is definitely geared towards an adolescent crowd.
 
  The fight sequences need to go and the playable Assassin character was almost unnecessary. He 
 must be a major character in the next one.
  The voice acting was very good and the music was adequate. I recall TLJ being better and having 
 the full soundtrack included in the game. Dreamfall uses a band named Magnet and not all of the 
 songs seem to fit as well. There might have been a better choice for USA audiences or simply going 
 with an orchestral score the entire time may have been a better choice.
  
  Characters were rounded, but I really missed all of the side dialogs that were a nice fun part 
 of TLJ. I realized how important it was to have two characters interacting each other throughout 
 the game. In TLJ, April and Crow were great together. In Dreamfall, each character is basically 
 alone with his/her environment and it loses a lot of player immersement because of it.
  
  But the game really shines at the end. Really, the last dialog when the game basically says, wait 
 till next time! Makes you wonder if this game could have been the first 2 hours of the next game 
 and not have lost any of the storyline. Now that I have a vested interest in the game series, I 
 can't wait for the third one. Of course, TLJ was one of my favorite games and stories. Hopefully 
 it will be released in a 2008 and a new segment every 1 year at a budget price so no one has to 
 wait as long.
  
  I think one of the biggest reasons why it failed to sell as much it could have was some of the 
 unnecessary content. The game received an MA 17+ rating in the USA. It could have been easily reduced 
 by removing unnecessary content.
  
  Overall, its definitely worth playing, but you should play The Longest Journey first. You might 
 even want to wait to on playing Dreamfall until Dreamfall: Chapters begin to be released. But the 
 first one stands alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronblom71
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 31, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Well when The Longest Jouney came by a whole bunch of years ago I did a big mistake to not pick 
 that one up, seeing that it is now seen as something of an classic in an (in later years) watered 
 down game-genre.
  I really enjoy these kind of story-driven stories filled with puzzles and weird and wonderful characters 
 (like with all good RPG&acute; s - the Adventure games closest cousin) . Once upon a time it was 
 Kings Quest that made me wanna play games on the PC.
  Well it is now about 11 years since I&acute; ve last played King&acute; s... Are there still hopes 
 for this genre?
  
  My first impression of this game was not a good one. The damn camera! Why is it swinging around 
 like that? It made the first hour of the game a really frustrating experience. Later on, I learned 
 to just use the movement of the character to controll the camera and the issue was resolved.
  
  But now to what is really important - story and characters;
  It takes place in the future 
 - hundreds of years from now - after something called the big collapse ...
  The main character of the game is an young (16?) girl named Zoe, who lives at home with her dad 
 and seems bored and tired with everything in life. After a while you get to know that Zoe now has 
 a purpose in her life - to save someone called April Ryan (who apparently was the main charater 
 of the first game) . Zoe will learn how to travel between her world (called Stark) and an sort of 
 medieval-looking sub-world called Arcadia. In both worlds there are puzzles to be solved, adventures 
 to be had (and long - often a little bit nutty - conversations to be listening through) to take 
 you through the longest journey part 2.
  
  Most of the time I love the ride - good voice-acting makes the characters feel real and you tend 
 to like them. But sometimes it just feels like you are watching an interactive movie, that you 
 can&acute; t really be a part of. You want to be able to make more personal choices - and I would 
 have liked a little more problem-solving too.
  
  And all the loose threads just hanging in the air...
  
  But, for some reason, the game caught 
 me and it was sure damn worth the lousy 6 (!) bucks it costed me getting it.
  
  But the ending... : (
  A sequel is apparently on it&acute; s way... and I am in fact anxious to 
 play (see) through it.
  
  Until then, sweet dreams sweet Zoe... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Despite beautiful graphics and mystery elements, Dreamfall does not deliver the same excitement 
 of its predecessor The Longest Journey. This comparison must be given because Longest Journey had 
 been an exceptionally good adventure game with outstanding graphics and story line. That was a 
 work of pure passion. Dreamfall is also a work of passion of the developers. But the story telling 
 suffers from the developer's attempt to introduce an exceptional style.
  The following elements make Dreamfall different from TLJ:
  In Dreamfall you play three characters, 
 including April Ryan. This game uses full 3D environment. Thirdly the characters also fight.
  Playing three characters imply that your perspective of the game will change thrice in a same storyline. 
 This does not feel good. This has been tried out in MDK 2, and I did not enjoy it. Again, its not 
 THAT bad.
  Playing an adventure game in proper 3D, plus having the option to fight, has been my wish for a 
 long time. Dreamfall does a good job here -- though not up to the standard of shooter or action 
 games.
  The mystery element, which is a driving force in any adventure game, is quite well implemented. 
 Like TLJ, the first character would get mysterious visions and that would be enough to make you 
 want to decipher. The graphics and sounds are top notch. Overall this game has good value -- though 
 its not quite like TLJ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockmanneo12
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Most games don't even get a sequel let alone one that gives us such a thrill as the first. Dreamfall 
 gave me everything I could ever want in a sequel and even though it gives a change from the the 
 point and click original, everyone who plays it will be satisfied with the blend of discovery and 
 color with gameplay. You will absolutley love this game unless your a natural born critic. End 
 of Discussion. Get this game on Steam in a pack with the original 'The Longest Journey (1999) ' 
 and save more than buying them separately and such.
  
  Absolutley wonderful! A Game that will leave a mark. The Longest Journey is one worth taking! Take 
 it from Man of Rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krs_bg
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 31, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  Video games have often been criticized for their skewed and often one-dimensional portrayal of 
 female characters. In fact, there have been very few memorable female protagonists in video games 
 and female characters have largely been treated as eye candy rather than complex individual characters. 
 Perhaps, the most notable exception to this industry norm was The Longest Journey released by Funcom 
 in 2000.
  
  The Longest Journey tells the story of April Ryan, a troubled young woman who suddenly acquires 
 the ability to shift between two parallel universes  between her own world of Stark and Arcadia. 
 Although once a single universe, Arcadia and Stark at some point split into two separate and very 
 different worlds. Arcadia is a quasi-medieval universe of fantasy and magic, while Stark is dominated 
 by science and technology. As the story progresses, it becomes clear that the balance which exists 
 between Arcadia and Stark is in danger as the two worlds inexplicably begin to merge.
  
  Dreamfall takes place ten years after the events in The Longest Journey, namely the restoration 
 of the balance. Ten years have also passed since the Collapse, a mysterious incident that destroyed 
 Starks infrastructure and economy, which is also believed to have been caused by the merging of 
 the two worlds. The Collapse fundamentally changed Stark and, unfortunately, not everyone was able 
 to restore their lives after the calamity. Aprils hometown of Venice, Newport a once prosperous 
 and vibrant community has become desolate and poverty-stricken.
  
  The new protagonist, however, lives in one of the few cities which have successfully recovered. 
 Zo&euml; Castillo is a young woman who is still unsure of who she is. She is painfully aware of 
 her lack of motivation and she fears that she may never amount to much in life. Her studies in 
 Bioengineering, which perhaps she had chosen in the hopes of following in the footsteps of her 
 father, were cut short as she lost her focus and her interest in the subject and eventually dropped 
 out of the university. Admittedly, your first impression of Zo&euml; may not be entirely positive, 
 but as you gradually discover who she is, Zo&euml; becomes more likable and much more interesting 
 as a character.
  
  Similarly to April Ryan in The Longest Journey, in the beginning Zo&euml; is haunted by mysterious 
 and bizarre visions, which at first seem to be caused by the increasing disruptions in the Wire, 
 which is a global network connecting every electronic device. These disruptions may possibly hint 
 at an impending disaster comparable to the Collapse. However, these visions soon turn into frighteningly 
 vivid dreams as Zo&euml; gradually uncovers the truth behind the disappearance of her journalist 
 friend.
  
  One of Dreamfalls most notable qualities is the environments which are truly awe-inspiring, with 
 Arcadia deserving special recognition in this respect. From your home in Casablanca to the ancient 
 caverns in Arcadia, the amount of creativity and detail put into the games environments is impressive 
 as each place that you visit has a distinctive feel and ambiance. From an entirely technical standpoint, 
 the graphics are pleasant and even on less powerful machines the frame rate is more than acceptable 
 even at higher resolutions with anti-aliasing fully turned on. The character models are detailed 
 and the animations are fluid.
  
  Along the way you will cross paths with a number of memorable characters, some of whom will prove 
 immensely helpful to you while others will try to impede your progress. In this respect, it is 
 important to mention the superb voice acting, which really brings the characters to life and contributes 
 to the game's already gripping story and unique atmosphere. However, one major criticism regarding 
 the narrative is that we do not get a chance to learn more about many of the characters who are 
 essential to the story. Additionally, the political and religious angles of the story are not fully 
 developed and too briskly concluded.
  
  Despite the games many impressive qualities, there are a number of things which make Dreamfall 
 a less than stellar title. Perhaps the most disappointing aspect of Dreamfall is the gameplay which 
 consists of going from point A to point B and sitting through cut scenes or participating in lengthy 
 conversations. As a story and character driven game, this approach may be somewhat understandable 
 as it is apparent that the primary concern of the designers was to create an engaging story and 
 an appropriate atmosphere, but the extent to which user interaction takes a back seat ruins the 
 overall experience and diminishes the replay value.
  
  As a story-driven game Dreamfall is understandably very linear. Similar to Ataris cinematic adventure 
 Indigo Prophecy, in Dreamfall you are sometimes given a choice as to how to respond to a question, 
 which creates the illusion that your actions have an actual effect on the way you progress through 
 the game. However, excluding the few situations where you have two alternative methods of progressing, 
 your responses always lead to the same result. Once you are done with Dreamfall, there isnt any 
 reason to go back.
  
  The puzzles, which are few and far between, are another disappointment as they are usually simple 
 and very easy to solve. Although most are straightforward, there are several instances where it 
 is simply unclear what the objective is. In similar vein, the combat in Dreamfall is very simplistic 
 and can be considered a chore rather than a source of excitement between puzzles and the lengthy 
 conversations with various NPCs. Battles are usually quick but a twitchy camera in confined spaces 
 can complicate things. Usually, the key to winning any confrontation is to wait for the opponent 
 to become vulnerable and only then to attack.
  
  In many respects, Dreamfall is a brilliant game which leaves you with a lasting if not an entirely 
 positive impression. It has an intriguing story, many memorable characters and an incredible atmosphere. 
 But due to its simplistic gameplay and an uneven conclusion, Dreamfall fails to provide a satisfying 
 overall experience. More importantly, in the end it fails to make you a part of its universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rennik_l
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  I'll admit it, I never fully played The Longest Journey. A fun game, just haven't sat down with 
 it to finish it. Even so, Dreamfall has a story that is deep, with characters the player becomes 
 attached to (I know I did) and some beautiful places to see along the way.
  
  Graphics: At first when I saw the graphics I thought they were next-gen. I was wrong though, it's 
 just really high end (last-gen now) . The bump mapping and shader effects on the capes in the game 
 alone are worth specific mention. The places you see, both on Stark and Arcadia, are fabulous to 
 look at and explore. The character models move nicely and look great while doing it, the only real 
 complaint I could have is with the lipsynching, but still this game never fails to look good otherwise. 
 9/10
  
  Sound: Were to start? The gorgeous soundtrack? The well done sound effects or the wonderful voice 
 acting? Well I'll go in that order. The soundtrack is wonderful, the music fits in with the current 
 place/situation going on throughout the story. The sound effects are lively and make Stark and 
 Arcadia feel alive. And the voice acting is strong, giving the characters true personality. 10
 
  
  Gameplay: Here is where the game's chink in the armor is. The game is way too short, and there 
 is no real challenge to it, the puzzles are easy, and the combat is very simplistic and unsatisfying 
 to go through. Other than that however, and the many questions left at the end of the game, the 
 gameplay (when using a game pad at least) controls well. 8
  
  Final Thoughts: The story is fantastic, with characters that I began to care about as the story 
 kept going. And the way it ended made me (I may seem like a wimp for this) want to cry when a few 
 of the things that didn't make sense of Zoe's predicament at the beginning were explained in the 
 ending. This game is more story than game, and a nice change from the all game and no story of 
 many of the games today, I give it a high recommendation, and will probably play it again someday. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popo136
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 24, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  As a sequel of The Longest Journey, this game is succesfull in continuing the journey of Stark 
 and Arcadia. Adding new character made the player can see the politics environment via different 
 perspective.
  Even so, there are many things in the game that missing from the first sequel. The new form of 
 game play (the fight game) is not a good innovation in this kind of game, because its destruct 
 the advanture aroma .
  The ending, for sure, said there will be another sequel that (hopefully) explain the unsolved mystery.
 
  The overall game is good but not too good for 5 years waiting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McDove
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 29, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  The adventure genre has always been one where the game either gets it or it doesnt. This is due 
 to the fact that they heavily rely on one mechanic, narrative. The same bears true for Dreamfall 
 and it fortunately hits it right on the spot, as there is not much in the way of game-play that 
 will keep you interested if it relied on that alone. Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is the sequel 
 to The Longest Journey; however, you will not need to anything from the first, as most of what 
 you need is explained early in the game. For the most part of the story you will control Zoe Castille, 
 a woman who has just started to turn her life around and put what is important in the forefront 
 of her mind. However, after a mysterious conversation and then disappearance of her ex boyfriend, 
 Zoe starts to see weird visions on various monitors of a little girl saying save her Zoe, save 
 her. This begins Zoes adventure that will lead her to different parts of Stark in an attempt 
 to find her ex. Not too much else can be said about the plot in fear of spoiling the storyline, 
 however, you will be travelling between the worlds of Stark and Arcadia to unravel the mystery 
 of why Zoes ex disappeared. The storyline is incredibly intriguing and successfully combines sci-fi 
 and fantasy worlds to present a narrative that is strong and fleshed out, which contains many themes 
 relevant to today. It does however end very abruptly, but does enough to leave you satisfied and 
 wanting more at the same time.
  
  It is very rare to form any emotional attachment to a cast of characters in any game whether it 
 be in the adventure genre on not. However, you cant help but form an attachment for Zoe and the 
 journey she undertakes as a character. This is helped with some superb animations and some outstanding 
 voice acting which gives Zoe that British charm yet an under edged grittiness to see things through. 
 This bears true for the rest of cast that you will meet or control, with that same quality and 
 attention given to both the animations and voice acting to each member of the cast. The quality 
 in this aspect shown in Dreamfall really helps the game in keeping the players attention to the 
 unfolding events, as the game does have some very long narrative sequences that without the quality 
 of the voice acting, the player could lose interest in Dreamfall very quickly. Dreamfall does contain 
 some puzzle solving elements in its game-play to allow the player to interact with the environments 
 around them. The puzzles presented are quite standard whether it would have you use your inventory, 
 moving objects around or hacking the odd keypad. There is plenty of variety in them and they do 
 keep the players interest as they are not all that difficult to overcome. The combat is the weakest 
 aspect of the game; it is very basic and somewhat sticky. It is not hard however and is used very 
 sparingly throughout Dreamfall, it does have its place, so it is easy to look past that aspect 
 and be really enchanted by its environments and characters.
  
  The presentation of the worlds of Stark and Arcadia are really beautiful and sharp. Stark takes 
 place in a futuristic Earth setting, yet the artistic approach to presenting this setting is unique. 
 The opening environment of Casablanca is really vibrant and lush. The advances in technology shown 
 are very simplistic and do distinguish it from modern setting. This approach in presenting Stark 
 is consistent throughout the all the level designs and it is a refreshing take on a setting that 
 is used far too often. Arcadia takes place in a parallel world that is accessed by those in Stark 
 using a method called Shifting and only a handful are able to do so (Zoe does access Arcadia through 
 different means) . It shows influences of medieval architecture with some renaissance touches. It 
 is extremely fun to run around in and does have a unique beauty in which to admire at.
  
  The Music used in Dreamfall feels misguided, there is a use of pure orchestral score with some 
 lyrically tracks mixed in. The orchestral music is very solid and polished and does add to the 
 games cinematic approach. However, the use of lyrics in some parts feels disconnected from the 
 game. It is sometimes introduced in some dramatic parts when pure orchestral music would have best 
 suited. It does not affect the overall experience that Dreamfall creates, but is annoying to hear 
 lyrics in background during important narrative sequences.
  
  Dreamfall addresses issues such as corporate greed, the freedom to believe what you want and trust. 
 It could have been something very special with the promise of a great climax, not so. However if 
 you enjoy the genre and want something that is well paced, has a great narrative with some memorable 
 characters and some outstanding visuals, then Dreamfall is definitely worth playing through. It 
 is a short experience accounting for around 10 hours but with the promise of episodic content; 
 let us hope that the longest journey ends soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleksss1984
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 9, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this game is awesome. I actually give it a 9.9, because it is the closest thing to 
 a perfect 'my kind of a' game. I was sorry it had to end, the ending is a bit blurry but the game 
 kinda blows you a kiss in the shape of a promise of an explanation.
  The characters are... they just are. They feel real. Like a movie you lost yourself into during 
 your lunch break. After it, you raise your standards when it comes to voice acting in other games/movies. 
 Games like this are going to make reality obsolete in the future, trust me ;)
  I can count games that left me feeling fuzzy on my fingers , and i've played a lot of 'em, this 
 is one of those. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aflubenov
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 5, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  The only disappointing part of the game is the end, and i don't know very well whats is the role 
 of April in this story.
  In other way, the game is addictive, and have nice work of the voice artist.
  So, i like, but 
 i don't know why is a sequel of The Longest Journey.
  The graphics ar so paintfull but in this time it can be better.
  The story is nice, has a very 
 well argument, but i'd like that the user can interact more with the characters and hav to listen 
 less, for moments it seems like an interactive movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmasterflex3128
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 4, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game, the first thing I noticed was a terrible control (I played on a PC) . 
 It took me a good 30 min or so to get used to it, and I'm still not 100% on it, but that's fine... 
 It's not like the contol really matters in an adventure game anyways. What matters is the story, 
 right? And the good news is that dreamfall delivers an interesting story with a constantly moving 
 plot. The problem is that I never played the original The Longest Journey and while that didn't 
 completely stop me from understanding the plot, it did make me feel kind of left out. Also the 
 game is not challenging... AT ALL. I mean it's not like I was expecting an extreamely challenging 
 game or anything, but the puzzles r so easy that it may leave some people thinking.. Wait... That's 
 it? Also I'm sure the readers have heard from other reviews that the game leaves you with too many 
 questions. The thing is, this is an understatement. It's like... the plot goes on and on... and 
 then... BAM! It's over and none of the questions raised have been answered. I must say the game 
 really made me very angry at the end. If you choose not to play this game, the truth be told, you're 
 not missing much at all. But if you choose to play this game, expect to play the game that will 
 in the end feel like a long... long... intro chapter (not chapter 1... an intro chapter) of a much 
 bigger story that to be honest, at this rate wont end for another 10 years or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winters2
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 3, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall is a worthy sequel of the longest journey. It continues the tradition of masterful story 
 telling and immersive environments. The games orientation has changed a bit and action gameplay 
 has been added.
  
  The previous point and click interface has been change to full 3-D movements and interactions (no 
 jumping) . The fighting features added are overly simplistic and are one of the worst features of 
 the game (but it's easily ignorable) . The environment looks much better than before and is wonderful 
 to look at, albeit a bit empty at times.
  
  The new protagonist Zoe, is just a memorable as April. Previous side characters make re appearances 
 which is always good. The story has a lot of plot holes by the end of the game, creating more questions 
 than answers. This was done because it was part of a 2 game story, the second game which is still 
 in production and probably won't come out in the near future leaving a major cliffhanger.
  
  The sound falls short of the standards set by the longest journey, though it's still a joy 
 to listen to. The voice acting are still some of the best I've seen in any games. The game is kind 
 of short compared to the longest journey and the puzzles tuned down a lot (for us stupid people) . 
 This can be a good thing or a bad thing depending on how you look at it. Good because it means 
 less hindrance as you enjoy the story, bad because it reduces interactivity with the environment.
 
  
  Overall, it's a worth sequel to look into. It's worth it's value and is a way to spend your weekend (s) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katjajett
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  If there was ever a game to play, Dreamfall would be the one. All previous players of The Longest 
 Journey will love the alterations. Traveling is faster, puzzles are easier, and graphics are some 
 of the highest quality in PC gaming. New players will find themselves locked into a new world between 
 fantasy and science, fully understanding the story despite not playing the first one.
  
  However, for all you hard action gamers, this is not the game for you. There are some fighting 
 scenes, but it is so few its not even worth mentioning. The game is filled with puzzles and mystery. 
 It is more of a story walkthrough laced with riddles.
  
  The music is fantastic (you can sample some on their webpage) . All in all I would say this is one 
 of the best games to ever come out, but its not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitronic12
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  Pure and simply this game rocks. And to write a review on this game is no simple task. The game 
 is combined of so many key essentials and core components that analysing it would simply take a 
 entire book, but non the less I shall attempt a review.
  
  The game starts off a bit detached from the original, but alot of elements are there that early 
 on show that the game is related to the original. THe controls are straight forward, and after 
 one flick at the controls menu, it shouldn't be so hard to navigate oneself around the game. The 
 inventory is fairly simple and doesn't require a explanation. The fighting was also very easy, 
 but as many times as I played the game I never really managed to defeat her gym trainer. But that 
 doesn't really matter, I don't think that I really bothered to do that, because the rest of the 
 game is so worth getting to. The rest of the game is quite easy, supplied you have some wit about 
 you.
  
  I spent 15 the first time playing the game. I really enjoyed just walking around randomly and talking 
 to random folk, it really gets me excited when I see such amazing and absolute extreme detail put 
 into games where a character you can chat to has a menu of speech, and has nothing to do with the 
 story, as well as Zoe's comments of most things that you desire for her to examine. Continuing, 
 the detail put in the game is worth examining, i would spend 100 hours playing the game jsut to 
 absorb everything. The game is mostly straightforward, though once or twice you may need to travel 
 some distance back and forth, but I still say it's worth it.
  
  Relating to what I said before the controls are fairly simple to master, and getting used to the 
 mouse and walking plus camera angles is very quick. I'd say it only takes a half hour to master 
 it. The game was made so delicately that anybody can play the game, understand and fall in love 
 with it.
  
  The gameplay and storyline revoling around the story is like something from a Tv show, only that 
 you get to live the experience yourself. The characters are so alive, sometimes you feel like you 
 simply want to laugh with them, or weep with them. As I said before the game is straight forward, 
 and you get to travel to place around the world and see the world in a totally new perspective, 
 wait... let me alter that, two new perspectives, or two new worlds. Our world, a utterly modernised 
 and seemingly dictated world where no one really cares about anything and Arcadia a magical world 
 that seems nothing like our own, even 500 years ago. Again, the detail put into both worlds is 
 astounding, its just so damn real. The gameplay all together deserves a 10. Seriously, who couldn't 
 love this game?
  
  The graphics are in par with the story, a flatout 10 with no arguments. The characters, cities, 
 rooms even worlds were created with extreme care and the details were added to the tiniest things. 
 That really set it for me. The graphics shine the developers ability, and reflect on the story 
 to form an awesome game that no other adventure game could honestly beat.
  
  Sounds? Excellent, the score really gave a dramatic feel to the game, and setup the reality that 
 everything could possibly exist, the future of our world, and the alternate universe of Arcadia. 
 Ever zoom and wurr may not be registered, but after a dozen or so new games, the sounds really 
 start to come into context, especially when they sound as if someone popped into the future and 
 stole sounds from them. Again 10, I am totally impressed.
  
  This game is worth its weight in Gold. I enjoyed every moment of gameplay, and will continue to 
 enjoy it until another sequel is released or kingdom come. Everything was worth it, the time, the 
 sounds, the sights, the people, the dialogue, everything!
  
  But in the end, this is my opinion, and I know that I may not seem like anyone to you, but to me 
 this game is gold. I hope you enjoyed this review and I hope it somewhat interested you in the 
 game.
  
  N12 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 14, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall is an adventure game that presents itself more as an interactive movie - and it's also 
 a case of very, very mixed reactions.
  
  I had not played the game's predecessor, and having read up on it since, I think that Dreamfall 
 had all the more impact because I was experiencing the world for the first time - so don't feel 
 disadvantaged if you haven't played The Longest Journey.
  
  One the one hand, the story is detailed and told in a sophisticated fashion. Early in the game, 
 you will find yourself puzzled by the switches between characters, then you'll later find yourself 
 puzzled by the motives of the bad guys, and at the end you'll find you genuinely empathise with 
 the characters and their sometimes-heartbreaking, sometimes heartwarming misadventures.
  
  On the other hand, the story also relies heavily on ambiguity and does not fill in all the gaps 
 for you. You'll need to feel comfortable speculating on the nature of certain bad guys and certain 
 plots in order to finish Dreamfall feeling good. None of the plot strings ever 'unravel', but a 
 few very literal loose ends are dangled directly in front of you at the game's resolution. On the 
 one hand, I was impressed by the fact that the game made me genuinely *feel* that it was important 
 to resolve this story, but on the other hand, I was left feeling unsatisfied by the story's ending.
 
  
  That said, the story is still really quite good, blending a mix of science fiction and fantasy 
 influences in a relatively organic fashion.
  
  The gameplay, on the other hand, is atrocious. If it weren't so basic to start off with, this would 
 make it a distinctly unenjoyable game. The game plays in a completely linear fashion, often down 
 to the fact that you cannot advance a puzzle unless you speak to NPC's in the appropriate order. 
 You can't take logical 'shortcuts' when a puzzle presents itself and immediately take logical action.... instead, 
 you're forced to run around wondering if there's a bug in the game until you realise that you had 
 to revisit NPC x so they could tell you something you'd already figured out yourself.
  
  The combat is, as other reviewers have no doubt mentioned, equally atrocious and completely unnecessary 
 in terms of what the game is trying to achieve. The controls are clunky, and make it difficult 
 to execute even the simple degree of strategy that was implemented. That is, there are only three 
 moves: blocking (theoretically) stops fast attacks, fast attacks (theoretically) stop heavy attacks, 
 and heavy attacks (surprisingly always) defeat blocking. The combat controls are unresponsive, 
 and the enemy AI is erratic. A fight that may have cost you your life three times may suddenly 
 become ridiculously easy because an enemy just backs into a corner and continually blocks while 
 you pummel them with heavy attacks.
  
  The graphics are lovely, they look organic and while they are often stylised, they never look cartoony. 
 The game frequently makes use of short, purely graphical segues between scenes in order to help 
 establish the emotions of the characters involved. Likewise, the music is brilliant, and employed 
 to heighten the emotional involvement you'll develop with the characters.
  
  All in all, Dreamfall is quite short, leaves you wanting more (I personally have little faith in 
 the promised episodic continuation/finishing of the story that's in the works) but very well made 
 and an experience worth having. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trey555555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  this is about the only game ive played with wonderful voice acting. I was suprised how much effort 
 they put into it, its amazing. The storty is wonderful and verry interesting that it will keep 
 you playing to the verry end. The characters all match their personalitys great, and are amazing. 
 There isnt alot of fighting in the game, mostly a couple of puzzles and getting to and from places. 
 So dont expect alot of action in the game since there isnt as much. The puzzles the simple, nothing 
 hard and impossible that will keep you from playing the game. But after a while your might get 
 bored, but the story will keep you playing. I baught this game for 7$ at walmart. Its like a book, 
 but well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I must say, after playing The Longest Journey, I did not believe it would even be humanly possible 
 to make a game as good as that, let alone an acceptable sequel. Well I will admit this is not as 
 good as the first game... but it IS a well-done sequel. Read on grasshopper!
  
  Gameplay (8/10) : This could have, and should have been perfect. Like the first game, it has a great 
 storybook-like play style that is fitting for the amazingly in-depth story, but there are a few 
 additions to the formula that aren't particularly good. First is the combat. The first game was 
 laid back and felt like curling up with a great novel, and I don't like to fight while reading 
 novels. Granted the fighting is minimal, but that isn't the worst part. The combat system is HORRIBLE. 
 It is unresponsive, and can be REALLY hard or REALLY easy, and is so overly simple that it will 
 make you cry every time your character gets in a combat stance. Why Funcom didn't put the combat 
 into cutscenes is beyond me. Another problem is that the item based puzzles are very minimal, and 
 oftentimes you will feel like all you are doing is running from point A to point B in order to 
 start up another long cutscene/dialogue. I am not saying the excessive dialouge is bad, since that 
 is the type of game this (and the first one as well) is, but it honestly could have been a bit 
 more interesting to get from point to point. There is also this little puzzle sequence that you 
 have to do with your mobile (cell phone) to unlock doors. It isn't really done that much and actually 
 if there were more puzzles in the game, it would have been fine, but since these were the only 
 real puzzles in the game and that they were all done in the same way, it got really annoying. Now 
 with complaints aside, let me tell you what is GOOD about this game.
  
  The story. Just like the first game, you will want to keep on going JUST because the story is just 
 so interesting. It may be a bit confusing, but then again since when have second parts to a story 
 been particularly fulfilling (see: LotR: Two Towers, Empire Strikes Back, Matrix Reloaded, Halo 
 2) . Even so it is very interesting and you will likely stay up all night playing JUST to see what 
 happens. Most characters are just as compelling as the first game as well, which is a definate 
 with how character and story based this game is. As far as the gameplay goes, it is very simple 
 and it is VERY easy (even easier in comparison with the first game) , so with this type of a game 
 that is actually kind of welcoming. Do keep in mind that this is more of a digital novel than a 
 game though, since the actual gameplay is relatively weak. The addition of free-roaming, in my 
 opinion, is actually kind of neutral. It is well executed but also has its downfalls (like being 
 forced to always take action, wheras the first game you could just click somewhere and wait until 
 April got there) . Overall the free-roaming isn't bad or good though. As for controls, I can't really 
 vouch for the PC controls. Since it is merely running around I am sure it gets the job done, though 
 I played using my wired 360 controller throughout the whole game. If you want to use a controller 
 just make sure it has 10 buttons, 2 analog sticks and a D-Pad. The controls are well done with 
 a controller though (minus combat of course) and makes doing most anything very simple. One last 
 issue is that this game has a good amount of loading. I have 2GB of RAM and my PC ran the game 
 on max settings without a problem, so the load times were not too bad, but I hear they can be. 
 If you can run the game on max settings though, don't worry it will load fine.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : Like the first game, there is a lot of detail to be had here. The transition to 
 pre-rendered environments to full 3D actually turned out to be quite successful. All of the detail 
 is retained and even though it isn't the most graphically powerful game for its time, it still 
 looks beautiful. There are a few spots where lighting is a little strange and where you will notice 
 bad texturing and modelling, but those aren't too often. Overall this game really does look absolutely 
 brilliant.
  
  Sound (9/10) : In its own way, this is quite the opposite of the first game. The music is loads 
 better and implemented in a much better way than the first game. On the other hand the voice acting 
 seems to have fallen a few levels. A few of the characters are magnificent but overall it just 
 isn't on the same quality as the first game. So in the end it balances out to be just about as 
 good as the first game, though I do wish they were able to retain ALL of the same voices from the 
 first game (the ones that come to mind the most are Charlie and Cortez) . Otherwise, the sound is 
 spot-on.
  
  Value (5/10) : No extra features. AT ALL. To add to it the game is relatively short. The first game 
 took me about a week and a half, this took about two days. As far as how fun the game is, it is 
 very fun, but I use value to be replay value with my reviews. Besides wanting to re-experience 
 the story, there is NO reason to come back to this game AND it just doesn't last long enough. It 
 probably is just as long as the first game but the problem is that getting from one point to the 
 other is a lot easier and therefore goes by a lot faster than it should.
  
  I know I compare this a lot to the first game, but it IS a sequel so that cannot be avoided. Nonetheless, 
 this is a pretty solid adventure game, and is definately worth a purchase. Just be warned that 
 I DO NOT suggest playing this without having played The Longest Journey first. with that being 
 said, if you played TLJ and enjoyed it, you WILL enjoy this so don't hesitate in buying this. I 
 do not own the Xbox version but considering it is almost identical (I figure the graphics are a 
 little worse and that the loading MIGHT be a little more) , and since I played the game with an 
 Xbox controller, I would recommend it if you don't have a PC that can run this game on max settings. 
 Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 5, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  The storyline is very complicated . U'r in the future and someone wants to brainwash the world 
 with a device. That device sends u on another world where you meet a character wich was in the 
 first longest journey. There u will control 2 other characters. The ending pretty much sugest another 
 Dreamfall game since ur objective wasn't achieved. It has a very different ending from most games 
 where the heroes saves the world and bad guys loses but that may only sugest another dreamfall 
 game just like i said before
  The graphics are superb in my opinion but the sounds are slitly not that good.
  The gameplay 
 isn't very complicated like in alot RP games and the game doesn' get boring . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrenton2004
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Pro's.
  - A very interesting story-line, so much so you want to see how it unfolds.
  - Great voice acting.
  - Nice graphics and sound.
  - Great blend of a modern and fantasy environments.
 
  - Game stability.
  
  Pro's/Cons. (Depending on your point of view, many of these points may suit the game)
  - A simplistic 
 fighting interface.
  - Conversation responses don't seem to really matter in the big picture, ie: certain things will 
 happen no matter what.
  
  Cons.
  - The ending seems unfinished. There are so many questions left unanswered.
  
  Graphics.
 
  Quite good, &amp; suits the game style.
  
  Audio.
  In general very well done, good voice acting, sound &amp; ambient effects all sit together nicely.
 
  
  Gameplay.
  If the player takes the frame of mind, that to play this game is to watch &amp; enjoy it, more 
 so than to participate in the actual storyline, they may get more out of the experience. There 
 are many parts of the story that aren't answered, your left thinking 'what happened to that character 
 ?', or 'how does such-n-such fit into the big picture'. All the puzzles in the game were quite 
 simple and logical, except for one point (you'll all know it when you get there, I had to Google 
 to continue on - the trial &amp; error alternative would have taken just too long) . And playing 
 the game from 3 different character perspectives was a nice touch. The simple fighting interaction 
 I thought suited the game style, although some may find it tedious.
  
  Overall.
  A very decent and a different sort of game that was something out of the norm. Although I had the 
 feeling that this could of been so much better, either the developers want to tie up all the unanswered 
 questions in a third release to the series, or they got the hurry up from management to release 
 the game a little unfinished. The story line wasn't too predictable which added to the games enjoy-ability. 
 Also, it would have been nice if there had been more play-time with the male character, just so 
 you could see more of the storyline from his perspective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateds2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall has received far too many criticisms for its lack of puzzles and its weak fighting and 
 stealth sequences. And while it is true that the few existing puzzles are extremely simple and 
 the fighting and stealth sequences are a drag, those things are not at all what you should be concentrating 
 on. The story of the game is simply beautiful, the characters are extremely likeable and I guarantee 
 that you will miss them when the game ends. The voice acting is of good quality as is with it's 
 predecessor, featuring some of the actors used back then. The graphics are great, rendering some 
 beautiful vistas and backgrounds, without being too demanding on your hardware. And I can't not 
 talk about the plot a little more. It is, in my opinion superior to the old Longest Journey, in 
 terms of emotional attachment to the characters and maturity of the story (this isn't saying anything 
 against TLJ, still love it and it's one of my all-time favorites) . The main heroine is a lovely 
 girl and is one of the most likeable protagonists ever featured on a computer game. Unfortunately 
 the game ends quite abruptly leaving you desperately wanting a sequel. And as far as I no one is 
 in the works.
  
  And finally to address the criticisms regarding the lack of puzzles. I actually thought that that 
 worked to the game's advantage. It was basically walking your character around from dialogue to 
 dialogue and from cutscene to cutscene while performing simple tasks. To sum it up you just walk 
 around as the amazing story unfolds before you - to borrow the definition from another game - an 
 interactive movie. And if you are like me and don't like annoying, dragging, pretentious and sometimes 
 just plain stupid puzzles (in the original Longest Journey you had to trap a wizard in a calculator 
 for some reason; seven years have passed and I still can't get my head around that one) distracting 
 them from the story of the game or getting them stuck somewhere for days, trying to find some object 
 that you need for some strange reason, than Dreamfall Is the game of choice for you. I think that 
 the great graphics, amazing story, likeable characters and simple gameplay more than make up for 
 the lack of a couple of puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:17 am PT
Review:  I play this game and was great and the story was the same, voices of characters very powerfull and 
 motivate... Great gameplay and story with more moments of emotional-soul. Like the original, characters 
 go under my skin but surprising me more this time and i like April Ryan much more and the game 
 specially more than that because is a impressive story and somehow don't want to end...
  The end of the game is strange and i was a little dissapointing about the finish but i hope in 
 the future will be something to next the story... I hope and wait because the end let me thinking 
 to what happend next... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axsuul
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall is not bad but there are a few things that the game needs improvement on. Before we get 
 to that, there are a few things that make this game worthwhile. The storyline, characters, and 
 voice acting are the best things that game has to offer. It sucks you up and triggers all sorts 
 of emotion that one can expect from a movie or novel. The story is no doubt one of the best stories 
 I have experienced. Dreamfall is the sequel to the first Longest Journey though it is not required 
 to have under your belt to be immersed into the story. The game does a good job narrating it but 
 also lets loose a couple odds and ends that sparks intense speculation and discussion that can 
 be found on the forums. The story is not complete but just recently Funcom announced a sequel to 
 make this series a trilogy. The visuals aren't next-gen but they do the game justice. I am not 
 able to comment on this too confidently since I don't have the necessary hardware to run this at 
 the highest settings. The audio is great and the music score was excellent though I don't recall 
 that much use of music.
  
  On the other hand, I felt that this game was too easy in light of what fans of adventure games 
 would expect. The puzzles were too straightforward and most of the gameplay was un-intuitive. I 
 don't want to spoil anything here so I'll just keep it at that.
  
  Overall, the game is a finished product, runs well, and is bug-free. There are many loading screens 
 but they make the transition from scene to scene smooth and professional like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seaymonster
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  After playing the first one, I saw this second at the store and had to have it. But I found it 
 very disappointing. The puzzles are way easier. The inventory is a no brainer. The game is much 
 shorter and far less challenging. Like the other, you spend a lot of time going back and forth, 
 but it's just filler in this game. In the first, I did it because I had to, since I did not have 
 a clue. In the second game it was done to kill time, I thought. I was always waiting for the brainy 
 challenge and it never came. I am furious about the combat aspect of this game. It is absolutely 
 lame and furthermore ridiculous. Atari did better with Karate Kid . . . The attractive thing about 
 the game is the beautiful vid and audio, not tomention characters and story. It's engaging, even 
 though I was disappointed, I couldn't stop playing. I do eagerly await the sequel. I love these 
 games, but was very very disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  A great adventure game with a twist of action adventure where the usual point and click gameplay 
 turns into a 3rd person shooter point of view complete with direction, activation and even crouching 
 controls, like Alias the videogame. Yes, it sounds interesting, but most of the time you just click 
 or walk to a point where you trigger a 10 minute cut-scene and you click or walk a bit again to 
 trigger yet another 15 minute long story sequence. It's like an interactive tv drama serial and 
 trust me, I got to a point I really had a popcorn box in one hand and another on the keyboard.
 
  
  Well, it's sort of like an action adventure game without the action, cos there is a really lame 
 combat system which pretty much annoys everybody who played and commented on it. You really can 
 eat popcorn and engage in combat simultaneously... seriously. Well, thank god that aspect is kept 
 to a minimum, and the 3rd person thing is complimented in a good way with a stealth system that 
 allows you to play hide and seek with enemy guards and security bots. Now you actually can 'die' 
 in this adventure game if you get caught sometimes, and you really need to have hand-eye coordination 
 this time round, so the whole popcorn thing isn't true here.
  
  Nevertheless, there is great voice-acting and sound design and graphics are good overall. This 
 is yet another masterful chronicle adventure with suspense lingering on till the end even after 
 you complete it and it shouldn't disappoint any adventure gamer looking for a good story with popcorn 
 in hand. The price tag is a little steep though.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Let me start off by saying that Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is an amazing and well 
 made game. It mixes the setting of the age that we currently live in right now (around 1990's-early 
 2000's) with a possible reality of a sci-fi future. Those familiar with the game's predecessor 
 might expect no less, since it's widely considered one of the best adventure games ever made. Judged 
 as a follow-up to a beloved classic, Dreamfall does not disappoint, for the most part. So this 
 time spend much of Dreamfall playing as Zoe Castillo trying to uncover the mystry of April Ryan 
 and you have to find her. Zoe is a likable character who is charming and sypathetic and right away 
 you will like her. You will meet many intresting and strange characters thoughout the adventure/story 
 and some characters you will reconize for thoughs who have played the first game. So she begins 
 in her room at her home and then tells us the story of how one day, she began seeing strange visions 
 on television screens, of a strange white place where a little girl begged her, again and again, 
 to save April Ryan. On the same day, Zoes ex-boyfriend asked her for a favor, which winds up leading 
 her across the world, into the middle of a corporate conspiracy, and from her world, the science-based 
 Earth we know, a. k. a. Stark, into the magical world of Arcadia. Along the way, she will get ambushed 
 and knocked unconscious approximately a dozen times. Its how she is. The diologe is very intresting 
 because it really gets you connected with the character. The Puzzles are well done too because 
 they are opened ended are there are quite a few ways to go around to solving them. So the story 
 of the game is very well done but my only compaint is the fighting parts of the game is simple 
 and not very well done. Dream Fall is the seoncd act of a most likley a trilogy of other games 
 and people who have not played the first game will be confused by some of the actions of the things 
 they will have to do. Graphics: The Graphics are Absoutly amazing, lovers of graphic splendor will 
 find nothing to complain about in Dreamfall. While the engine the game is running on isn't quite 
 cutting-edge, the art direction in the game is simply spectacular. The scenery is well done aswell 
 and the art of the characters. Sound: The Soundtrack is very well done to. Especally during the 
 times when Zoe is having thoughs creepy vison about April Ryan and it turns the mood in to something 
 like a horror movie.
  
  So all I have to say that this is a really good adventure game with an amazing story and one of 
 the best to come out in this decade. To bad it did not get as much attention as it should of gotten. 
 I give this game 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  At first what look like another RPG games takes you in to mystic world of realism and magic. I 
 recommend who ever hasnt played the first game to play it, I havent played the first game my 
 self, not that I missed much but you do get familiar with the characters that way.
  
  The GOOD: The game has some cool environments and a good story line to keep you at the game; it 
 would take you a good 10 hours or so to get through the game. Its somewhat of an experience to 
 have played dreamfall. The sounds are ok, it keeps you in tack with the game and help you to get 
 out of reality.
  
  The BAD: The end of the story I thought was a bit unclear and it failed to address some question 
 of mine. The game is pretty easy and the puzzles are quite easy. If youre looking for action in 
 a game then dreamfall is not for you, unlike Oblivion or Fable this is not a fighting game other 
 than some brief encounters.
  
  I would give an overall ok for this game, if you like fascinating stories then this is for you. 
 I would say this is a good game to relax your self with much like watching a movie or relaxing, 
 and a good game to kill some time with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freewing
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Good story, nice ambience, not a hit of genius the camera control... a nice game to play. The story 
 if well handled, graphics are OK, not the best, as the sound.
  The camera contro is quite terrible, but you can handle it.
  Views are quite fine, while the 
 animation of subjects is a bit rigid...
  The whole game gives you a nice sensation, but something is missing to say WOW! ... just like for 
 MS Vista.
  Some puzzles can result annoyng and a bit boring, some others are fun; a bit to simplified the 
 fighting system.
  The good is taht it's easy to play in your spare time... not too impegnative, so quite a pleasure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidey008
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall is the follow-up to the critically acclaimed The Longest Journey. It stays true to 
 the original formula that touched me in the first game. It is truly a technical masterpiece of 
 storytelling, character development, and enriched environments.
  
  Although Adventure games are not for everyone, I have found that this series is the pinnacle of 
 the genre. Games that lack depth in story should look to this series as an example of how it should 
 be done.
  
  I recommend this game to everyone that enjoys the Adventure genre. It will touch your heart in 
 a way that no other game will do. I don't give 10's much here at gamespot, but this game deserves 
 a 10 like no other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is an odd case. From a pure gameplay standpoint, Dreamfall is lacking, 
 a lot. Its stealth and fighting mechanics are woefully underdeveloped and the puzzles are mind-numbingly 
 simple. But when you look at the big picture, it's wonderful. Dreamfall's masterful story and endearing 
 characters carry the game all the way to its controversial ending. In the end, this is a story 
 worth listening to.
  
  Dreamfall takes place ten years after the events from its predecessor, The Longest Journey. Dreamfall 
 does a great job of standing on its own without the need of its predecessor for support. There're 
 a couple of noteworthy reunions and references to The Longest Journey but a newcomer to the Longest 
 Journey universe shouldn't have a problem understanding what's going on.
  
  You start off by playing as the game's main heroine, Zo Castillo. She seems to be stuck in life 
  she lacks the ambition and goals she once had before she dropped out of college. But key events 
 start propelling her into events that tie into two other characters and storylines. Without spoiling 
 much, the game runs through a plethora of themes and emotions that weave one of the best stories 
 in a game in years.
  
  The only fault with the story is that it ends abruptly. Dreamfall's the second act in a trilogy 
 but the abrupt ending will leave many frustrated because it leaves a lot of important plot points 
 unresolved. The game leaves you hanging, and considering the release dates between Dreamfall and 
 its predecessor, it might be awhile until answers are given.
  
  While Dreamfall's story reaches and exceeds expectations, the gameplay on the other hand, stumbles. 
 The fighting mechanics use a two-button system, one for a quick slash and another for power strikes. 
 There's a parry system but it's too clunky to be of any use. These fights are extremely shallow 
 and simplistic. Just jam on the buttons and you'll most likely come out of a fight with a victory. 
 The stealth is also half-baked  there's no clear indicator of how well you're hidden and you're 
 only allowed to hide behind objects that are clearly highlighted.
  
  The puzzles in The Longest Journey were considered illogical and Dreamfall alleviates the issue, 
 to a fault. Most of the puzzles are mind-numbingly simple. On the flip side, these puzzles make 
 sense in context with what's going on at a given situation. And because of the relative ease of 
 the puzzles, the game moves at a quick and fluid pace.
  
  Visually, Dreamfall's environments are incredibly imaginative and gorgeous. From the arched structures 
 in Marcuria to the land of the Dark People, you'll say "wow" more than once. You'll run into your 
 fair share of blurry textures and crude character models but they're small annoyances that are 
 hardly worth bringing up. What is worth mentioning however, is the animation. All the characters 
 look stilted when they walk. When they emote it looks artificial. For a story-intensive game that 
 depends on its characters and dialogue to provide an emotional core, this issue can be very distracting.
 
  
  Fortunately, the audio picks up the slack. The voice acting provides an insane amount of charm 
 and personality for the characters. In fact, the most enjoyable parts of the game are when you're 
 doing absolutely nothing and you're just watching people talk with one another. The writing and 
 the voice acting come together to give Dreamfall its more poignant moments. Profanity is also used 
 with the proper restraint  characters will spout the s-word or the f-bomb but only when the situation 
 calls for it. The music's also top-notch. The compositions range from epic to personal when the 
 game demands it. Overall Dreamfall's strongest technical component is its audio.
  
  When the game ends, there's not much to go back to. It's not particularly long either  you should 
 be able to finish the game in about 10-12 hours. You might want to go through the game just one 
 more time, just to relive the events and the wonderful characters. When you come down to it, Dreamfall's 
 story will leave you wanting more, hoping you'll get the chance to revisit Dreamfall's world and 
 memorable characters just once more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shre123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is one of the most riveting games I have played this year. Do not 
 worry readers, no spoilers in this one. The plot starts off innocently enough about Zoe Castillos, 
 a girl who doesn't have anything going on her life. Everything crumbles when she is sent on an 
 errand by a friend, then all hell breaks loose. I would like to congratulate this game on bringing 
 the most beautiful storyline and visualizations I have ever experienced on a PC. This game excited 
 me, made me think, and scared me a couple of times (if you haven't played it yet, you'll see why) . 
 The dialog in this game was amazing but not so much as the voice acting. The voice cast did a superb 
 job on bringing the characters to life. My personal favorite is the storyteller and his voice. 
 The choice of music to represent this game was unbelievable. The game play and the music were completely 
 in sync giving an amazing experience. Not to disappoint, but the game play at some points were 
 a little dry. The fighting scenes were pointless, the unlocking with symbols and puzzles were annoying, 
 and the loading screens (even if fast) were annoying to endure. But i digress for these are just 
 minor flaws of the game which nothing but short of perfection. I am sure this adventure epic will 
 go down as one of the classic games of our time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TweetyLeaf
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The longest journey has potential to be number 1 adventure game there is, unfortunately 
 there is couple minor annoying things that takes the overall scores a bit down. Lets look at the 
 good and shiny sides of Dreamfall first tho. It does have one of the best storylines gamers have 
 encountered since, well, ever. I wont go into details because that would ruin the best aspect of 
 the game. Dreamfall isn&acute; t actually pure blooded adventure game since it doesn&acute; t have 
 that many puzzles in it and it relies more into well written dialogue and sneaking around. The 
 game mechanics and playability reminds me of Beyond good &amp; evil more than classic point and 
 click adventure style and this is where the games strong and weak point lies. When you are directly 
 in control of your character it more easily creates immersion of being there but it also add&acute; s 
 some confusing elements like how the camera works and how the combat part, which in my opinion 
 is two edged sword in adventure game, is executed. Dreamfall doesnt make any clear mistakes on 
 these part but camera and combat would have been more enjoyable with little tweaking and so on.
 
  
  There are two things that make Dreamfall unique in its category.
  First the sound environment and voice acting is simply put, amazing, and the dialogue is very well 
 written. More points the game earns when in certain scenes foul/bad language is not avoided in 
 hopes of getting lower esrb rating so the dialogue keeps its realism touch.
  
  Secondly i was suprised that the game looks so good and runs with very high fps on average/below 
 avarage computer, this is important to me also becouse i dislike the way game industry is going 
 and some gamers that think the better it looks, the better it is . Point is that Dreamfall proves 
 that game can look amazing without uber effects and very GPU demanding environments.
  
  Overall Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is easy game but it doesnt really bother becouse you will 
 want to continue following the storyline without much interruptions/stucks. Sad part is that the 
 combat ain&acute; t so good and I would almost think that the game would be better without it but 
 sure it adds some depth to gameplay and it would have been difficult to fill those spots with other 
 stuff. Amazing storyline combined to very good sounds and well thought characters makes this game 
 one of the best releases in 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuinXuan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Ah yes, adventure games, where in the world have they all gone to? I never really been into adventure 
 games, but I have always been into games with a deep and involving storyline. Most would agree 
 that the driving force of an adventure game is its storyline, and Dreamfall is no disappointment. 
 Dreamfall has one of the best storylines I have ever experienced for a game. I dont want to give 
 anything away for those who have not played this game yet. But the storyline, once it gets going 
 will suck you in and never let go. Many reviewers has mentioned that there is not enough interactivity 
 but I found there was quite a bit. Although, adventure purists may wish there were more puzzles, 
 I found it refreshing to not have too many just for that sake. Adventure games of yesteryear tend 
 to have a lot of puzzles, some easy and some very difficult, and I always found that it sort of 
 hinders the enjoyment and the flow of the story. Dreamfall, gives you puzzles, but maybe not in 
 the typical fashion of traditional adventure games but in a more realistic way. The puzzles that 
 are incorporated in this game are logical and fit in the story quite nicely. The stealth parts 
 I liked because it made the story more real, and it gives you more of a tense feeling in a way 
 solving a puzzle cannot convey. The combat was my least favorite thing about this game it was simplistic, 
 yet quite annoying at times, but Im glad it was kept at a minimum. Hopefully, it will be improved 
 in the next sequel or dropped. I understand adventure fans despise any type of action/stealth in 
 their games, but I believe that the developers are trying to broaden their audiences by incorporating 
 these elements. I think its a welcome addition and helps adventure games from being classified 
 as boring and persuade other gamers to give the adventure genre a chance. Overall, I really recommend 
 this game to anyone that likes a good story. I enjoyed playing this game very much and I cant 
 wait for the sequel, although that might be a long wait. I sure hope not. Go out and buy this game!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  First of all i never played The Longest Journey but i'll try and tell you a bit about Dreamfall 
 without spoiling everything.
  
  You play Zo&euml; Castillo , a beautifull and smart girl of 20 years old which has a tough year 
 behind her. She broke up with her long term boyfriend and thing's didn't went well on school.
 
  
  Nowadays Zo&euml; has a pretty dreadful life, she mostly lays on her bed to watch TV because and 
 don't really knows who she really is anymore. When playing through the first chapters of the game 
 i really felt Zo&euml; was like me. Many things happened to her were exactly like mine, it was 
 almost if i was looking in a mirror (i'm a guy and i'm not as pretty though :P) . When you past 
 some 'tutorial' chapters the real game starts. Your ex-boyfriend asks you to get a package somewhere. 
 What seemed as an easy job turns out to be a very difficult one. I won't tell anything more that 
 would spoil the adventure but i can tell you that you will go on a long journey....
  
  The gameplay is pretty much you want from an adventure. Moving etc. is very easy. The graphics 
 are very nice too, you probably will be able to play it even on older machines because the game 
 loads every chapter but that doesn't matter in this game.
  
  The sound is very good i think i never have played a game that has such good voice actors like 
 in this game, just brilliant! also the music is fantastic!
  
  Are there no bad parts about the game?
  Sadly enough there are a few bad things i didn't like:
 
  
  ***SPOILERS*****
  
  When ending the game you will be left alone with LOTS of questions for example:
  
  - What happened 
 to rezza?
  - Is april ryan really dead? (I hope not!)
  - Will Zo&euml; come out of her coma
  - Is Chang really her mother ?
  - Shouldnt Max, The Twins, 
 and the other dreamcore people be punished?
  - What exactly happened in Arkadia?
  - What has happened to Kian
  - What has happened to the White Draic ?
  etc. etc. etc.
  
 
  I really hope the next game is in production cause this is just sick! they leave you with all 
 these thoughts. The only good thing is is that most people deffinetely will buy the next game , 
 well... that's good for the developers that is... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman888
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I find it ironic that Dreamfall, which has stirred up considerable controversy with its heavy emphasis 
 on storytelling, both begins and ends with the undreaming. Do you see another kind of undreaming 
 in the world of games? We'll discuss in a bit.
  
  First things first. The gameplay of Dreamfall is simple in the extreme. That is to say, except 
 for two trivial puzzles, a little obvious item manipulation, and some unimpressive fighting sequences, 
 there is none.
  
  The graphics is well done, with sharp character models and generally decent animation. However, 
 some of the close-ups reveal awkward character movement. I am also not too impressed with the exclusive 
 use the graphics engine to depict cut-scenes. Say what you will about maintaining the atmosphere. 
 You compare any engine rendered cut scenes in any game out today with pre-rendered CGI (take FFVIII 
 for example) , and the effects range from bland to down right silly.
  
  I don't have much to say about sound. Except for occasionally vocals that moved me with the crescendo 
 of the story, I didn't notice it. That's a good thing. Too often you notice the sound of a game 
 when it either gets too quiet or too loud or too repetitive. In Dreamfall, you hear what you expect, 
 when you expect it, how you expect it.
  
  What is there to recommend about the game?
  
  As a game, there is nothing to recommend. As a leisure activity, I can't imagine recommending anything 
 else. Dreamfall is one of the best interactive story I have ever seen. It's a novel, but you have 
 control of the protagonist. You are not frustrated by the third person. You, the audience, matter. 
 It's a game, but it's not chess evolved. Dreamfall brings back the original spirit of gaming: extraordinary 
 events, fascinating characters, and exotic locale. You are invited to share in the visions of a 
 most remarkable bard: Ragnar Tornquist.
  
  Although many have criticized the extremely simple gameplay in Dreamfall, I find it refreshing. 
 For too long, adventure games have been haunted by the urgency to provide interactivity. In the 
 old ways, such interactions have come in the form of object manipulation and puzzles that are, 
 far too often, contrived. More recently, the gameplay has taken a decisively bloody turn, with 
 stronger emphasis on stealth and, ultimately, combat. But these must be done in moderation. The 
 occassional sneaking around and fighting intensifies the atmophere and the enjoyment of the game. 
 Too much of it, and the magic is gone. After all, how extraordinary can a thing be if you, the 
 average player, can accomplish it over and over? Dreamfall doesn't have that. You get to snap someone's 
 neck from behind one time in the game. You get to kill maybe a handful of minions (you know, the 
 kind that James Bond disposes of by the truckload) . The rest of the time, you only guide the protagonist 
 so the most logical actions are taken. This helps the gameflow immensely. I was not bogged down 
 a single time in the game.
  
  Tornquist took a chance with Dreamfall. He challenged the trend in gaming toward realism where 
 a game is great if you can make it playable enough. He tried to give something more. Magic, perhaps. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattx13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I cant gaurantee that you'll be blown away by the PHYSICAL game experience, but you will definanately 
 by brilliant visuals and story - this is a mind blowing experience.
  
  You will laugh, you will cry, and you may even find yourself losing all sense of reality as you 
 slip into this virtual masterpiece.
  
  The character developement (and characters in general) is exquisit, the visuals though repetitive 
 in certain situations, never cease to amaze, and the story surpasses any ive ever come across in 
 this game.
  
  The combat is terrible at best, but this doesnt deter the playability at all, and in conclusion, 
 i can only urge whoever is reading this to pick this title up - i promise you that you wont regret 
 it (i dont mean to sound fruity but its true) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobila99
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 26, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  The first game (*The Longest Journey) was amazing, just the type of adventure game any adventure 
 games fan would be looking for, lots of tense, comedy and exciting puzzles.
  
  But in this game, most of it was basically ruined by too much action based or platform kind of 
 missions... for example: You need to hide from some robot in a long mission to get into some facility 
 , and you just hide, wait till it passes.. then etc etc get into some room after putting things 
 together and such and get your own robot and destroy that robot, i am not willing to play hide 
 and seek with robots in an adventure game, please if i wanted an action game i would just play 
 counter strike.
  
  If you bring us an adventure game please deliver! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_elwick
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  This game has a great story line, very nice visuals and music.... but the game is very short and 
 the puzzles too easy!!!! i did not once have to take time to work out a puzzle, they stare you 
 right in the face!!
  
  Tha game name says the longest journey but i must say that a realistic name for this game would 
 be DREADFULL- THE NOT SO LONG JOURNEY 
  
  having said that, if you want a good looking adventure game (if its your thing) and you are willing 
 to wait for a possible follow up or addon to it , then it is worth it at the reduced price steam 
 offer it at! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  If your looking for an action packed adventure game than Dreamfall is not the game for you. This 
 game plays more like a novel than anything else, you just get to fill in some of the action. Not 
 to say this game is boring, absolutely not. Woven into this stunningly beautiful game is a story 
 that will pull you in and not let you go until the final scene, and then have you wishing for more. 
 Unlike most games that have a few voice actors doing all of the parts, the voice list for this 
 game is immense, giving this game a sound depth to go with the amazing graphics. The sound is crisp 
 and clear and so intense you will love to just sit back, watch, and listen. There is plenty of 
 game play as well, it felt as if it lasted forever, truly The Longest Journey . The game isn't 
 difficult, but that is not why you play, you play to find out what happens next. If you love to 
 read and enjoy a good story than play this game. The only downfall to the whole game is the lack 
 of a solid ending, but hopefully there is a sequel and it comes out soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  If your ego will permit it, play this game. Yes, it has a few cheesy moments. You do play as a 
 female main character which some people have a problem with. It might be a game to break your girlfriend 
 into gaming with. If you are a one track gamer, i. e. I need to shoot people with big guns all the 
 time it may not be your kind of game. Or perhaps this is a play for you as it might broaden your 
 gaming tastes. It might build character too *COUGH*... The pros are the amazing story, the fantastic 
 voice acting, awesome music and ambient sounds (all of this avaialable in EAX 4 for those with 
 a X-fi card) and immersive landscapes and levels. (also, currently available for $30) The areas 
 lacking are the few combat scenarios and some a few of the levels regarding the 3rd playable charcter 
 seeming irrelavant at first. (They will make sense later) . I disagree witht the review here and 
 think unless you play it all in one sitting, it may be worth playing a few times through incase 
 you missed any story details. Fans will play it again, atleast right before the sequel comes out, 
 which I can hardly wait for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick3333
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Since I don't have the creative energy to write continuous prose, I'll fragment my review, being 
 the lazy bastard I am.
  
  The good: the story, the characters, the beautiful and imaginative environments.
  
  The bad: 
 limited interactivity, constrictive environments, bad voice acting except for a notable few who 
 were excellent (April Ryan, Crow, and a few others) .
  
  The story: it has a slow start, but once it gets going it drew me in and didn't let go until the 
 end. The story itself is absolutely excellent. It is confusing in some parts, though (probably 
 because I haven't played the previous installments in the Dreamfall series before) . You have everything 
 in there: science-fiction, magic, conspiracies, religious wars, fantasy, mystery, parallel universes...
 
  There are emotional moments in the story, notable shocking moments and very funny moments that 
 make you laugh out loud (some of which are provided by 'Crow', one of my favourite characters in 
 the game) . Additionally, the story is actually quite adult and complex once you get down to it, 
 and it even has some political satire thrown in.
  I won't delve into any details, however. I don't want to spoil it for you...
  
  Characters: 
 the cast certainly is very memorable. No character is entirely two-dimensional. The story gives 
 you a chance to explore the motivations behind pretty much every character's actions and explore 
 their back story, which helps in fleshing them out instead of having standard cookie-cutter 'good 
 guy, bad guy' stereotypes.
  
  Sound: the soundtrack is great. It could be better - I found the pop music that was thrown in at 
 certain parts misplaced or even ridiculous to the point of making me laugh (Not a good thing when 
 the moment is supposed to be emotional) - but overall the soundtrack suits the action and delivers 
 a poignant and sometimes beautiful musical underscore to the game's dramatic or emotional events.
 
  The voice acting, however, is the game's weak point. Apart from a few notably excellent performances, 
 the voice acting is unconvicing and monotonous at best. I even found the lead actor's voice, Zoe 
 Castillo's voice, to be grating at times. This is a real shame considering that the dialogue and 
 the script effectively form the backbone of the story.
  
  Gameplay: this is where the game's real weakness lies. Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is not so 
 much a game as an interactive movie. The Longest Journey always presents you with a linear path, 
 and at no time can you deviate from it. All dialogue decisions and in-game actions end up leading 
 to the same thing. The occasional puzzles or combat the game throws at you for the sake of variety 
 or the illusion of interactivity are not even particularly interesting or challenging. The controls 
 can also be a little frustrating at first. By the end of the game the controls will become second 
 nature, but while I appreciate the interface's minimalism, it's not very intuitive.
  A more fleshed out fighting system and BETTER DIALOGUE* would probably have heaved Dreamfall The 
 Longest Journey up to the '9' category.
  [*more options, more options, more options! More character interaction! More choices! Star Wars: 
 Knights of the Old Republic is a great example of what I'm trying to get at here.]
  
  Graphics: the environments, while small and linear, are beautiful, detailed, and have a lot of 
 charm and character.
  The characters are adequately modeled, although movement and facial expressions seem stiff for 
 a lot of characters, not to mention the horrible lip-synching.
  
  Conclusion: this game is like watching a good story unfold before your eyes. A good plot, some 
 great and memorable moments and a good cast of characters are what this boils down to. That's a 
 double-edged sword, however. Whilst these are the game's strengths, they are also its weakness: 
 ultimately Dreamfall The Longest Journey neglects the player. Interactivity and choice are sorely 
 lacking, to the extent that I wouldn't really even call this a game at all.
  Just a really good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  YAYS
  Incredible story; endearing, memorable characters; superb voice acting and music; lavish, details 
 locales
  
  NAYS
  Very short - the story leaves you wanting more; lots of story gaps; references to the previous 
 game may turn off newcomers; frequent but brief loading times.
  
  It is not too often you come across a well crafted game with a very engaging, magical story that 
 draws you in a universe you would wish you be part of. This is exactly what The Longest Journey 
 engages you in.
  
  Giving away any part of the story would certainly spoil any of the wonderfulness of the story, 
 but let me just say that (as you'd expect) a simple favor draws you into biting off much, much 
 more than you could possibly chew. Without saying much, expect to go through very interesting conversations, 
 locales, and concepts, whether they be religious or philosophical or even humorous, regardless 
 of how subtle the references to such ideas might be. But rest assured that the story is very touching, 
 to say the least.
  
  Of course, with a story you need characters, and TLJ has a cast of very memorable characters. You 
 play as Zoe, but, as with all great stories, you are also told the story from the points of view 
 of different characters. You play as Zoe some of the time, and as other characters at other times. 
 You'll come across some aspects of the plot where all the main characters are in the same area, 
 and you'd be playing all the three at different time to see how the event climaxes. It certainly 
 is an interesting gameplay element and gives you more insight on the story.
  
  Unfortunately though, there are logical gaps in the story, especially near the ending, where everything 
 ic cryptic and mysterious, as if it was done on purpose to throw you off. Although you do get the 
 overall, general information of what is going on, there are some particular instances where something 
 happens and it is left unexplained. It can also be more confusing if you did not play the previous 
 game, where apparently some characters make a cameo along with a whole lot of inside jokes. The 
 two games do appear to be connected, and missing out on the former certainly degrades the gaming 
 experience of the latter, but not to the negative extent you would be expecting.
  
  All that aside, being an adventure game, it does have its share of puzzles. It isn't a point and 
 click adventure game so you'd be controlling the main character through the keyboard, but thankfully 
 the controls are very simple and they all make sense, so much that you can actually play with only 
 one hand.
  
  The puzzles are unfortunately very, very simple, especially with the fact that you don't usually 
 have so many items to fiddle through. Usually everything is clear for you and you would know what 
 to do, which is good that you don't spend hours wandering about using items on everything and everyone, 
 but it is also bad since there really isn't any challenge in the puzzles. There are also some breaks 
 in the form of fights, but they are childishly simplistic and the AI is heavy as a brick, and those 
 sections basically serve as a break than anything else.
  
  You'd be spending a lot of time running around, and the locales are beautiful and detailed, but 
 sometimes stiff. You can't enter every building, which is good, and the overall textures and graphics 
 are detailed and lush. The character animations however leave a lot to be desired for, as you'd 
 be engaging in a lot of conversations with stiff animations, and only after the main meat of the 
 talk is done that the characters show surprise or laughter. It is a minor annoyance, but present 
 constantly nonetheless.
  
  On a much happier note, the music and voice acting is absolutely superb and puts you in the right 
 mood. There are even music soundtracks in some areas that add to the atmosphere and makes it cinematic.
 
  
  Although the game is a lot of fun, it also leaves you wanting a lot, lot more, since you would 
 eventually have the feeling that some knots were left untied and a lot of things were missing. 
 But, for what is there in the game, is excellent, and certainly one of the most playable adventure 
 games on the PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray_735
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Down load the Dreamfall demo and you will notice an futuristic touch (KOTOR) and an older and mystical 
 genre ( ES4 : Oblivion ) .
  This is just the kind of game that we were all waiting for, because it content is more than fascinating... ex: 
 it&acute; s just like entering two different worlds whit all their details and characteristics from 
 a normal and boring life.
  Dreamfall : The Longest Journey is one of the Titles that a Gamer has to own, and I simply rate 
 this game for everyone as great as it is.
  Good Luck and a happy new Year to All . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iloveaubrey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is just an amazing expeirince overall. First off let me start off by saying I play shooters, 
 sports and (good) RPGS. I have never liked games of this type before, but man is this game amazing. 
 The story is the one of the best parts of the game. This is due to the vast roll of characters, 
 beatiful and vast locations. The graphics are also another good part, with beatiful details here 
 and there, thought there is the occasional clipping issue, but owell, this is still a great experience., 
 soo please give it a try. This game eliminated me forever from judging a book by its cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luieburger
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has two things going for it.
  
  One: A very fun and addictive storyline. The setting, characters, and story make this game a thriller 
 for those who perfer storyline over gameplay.
  
  Two: A hot female main character is always a bonus but it does nothing to add to the gameplay.
 
  
  What is wrong with the game?
  
  One: After playing Half Life 2 I can't look at a 3D animated character the same way. When a character 
 is talking and the only thing moving is his/her mouth, something just doesn't settle right. In 
 this day and age there should be no story driven 3D game where character motions arn't fluid and 
 natural. I just was unable to immerse myself into the game and really attach myself to the characters.
 
  
  Two: Clunky combat. Combat was definately the last thing on the minds of the developers. This is 
 another aspect that removes you from the experiences and limits the ability to immerse yourself 
 in the game. Game mechanics in the realm of combat are really lacking.
  
  Three: I have a choice on what to say to people but in the end it really has no effect on the outcome 
 of the story. The ability to choose your words or the order of your actions does not mean the game 
 is open ended. It only serves to try and fool the player into a false sense of freedom. It works 
 in some ways as people always feel less tied down if they have a choice, but the fact remains that 
 the choices are truely meaningless to the story. This was a sad attempt on the developers part 
 to make the game more appealing to replay over and over. You want to see the different reactions 
 of the characters even though you know the outcome will be hardly any different.
  
  Conclusion: If you are a player who likes great storylines but doesn't focus on great gameplay 
 (as if you were reading a book or watching a movie) then this game is for you. However, if you 
 are the type that enjoys great combat, great action, AND a great storyline. I would reccomend looking 
 elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franxes
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I loved The Longest Journey, and I was full of expectations when the new title came up.
  Question: Is Dreamfall just as good as The Longest Journey? No. But it is different.
  
  Sound: 
 (music and speech) truly fantastic. You won't find a better adventure game with high such quality 
 audio experience. Actually, you will find yourself playing again the game, taking different decisions 
 just to hear new dialogues, and wow those accents are awesome. Graphics: What improved mostly, 
 just forget about the static environment of TLJ and explore the 3D environment and landscapes, 
 and what about the atmosphere? Some situations happening in Dreamfall (Zoe sneaking into a building 
 packed with drug-addicts that are going to assail her if she makes any noise) are awesome, comparable 
 to Silent Hill. Gameplay: The only thing I didn't like. The inventory has been changed dramatically, 
 unfortunately in most situations you will lose a lot of time trying to: get an item, run and get 
 another item, combine them and use the new object before time runs out. Another negative aspect 
 of Dreamfall is its lenght: dialogues are much shorter than they used to be. Forget the hours spent 
 listening to people's stories in TLJ. Zoe does not have time to waste asking questions to people, 
 it appears. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simszebing
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, the game is very simple. You do a lot of adventuring and exploring but there 
 are few puzzles here and there. Hence, you might either love it or hate it.
  
  Dreamfall delivers a wonderful story with wonderful dialogues. The voice acting were really perfect 
 and in some parts its really humourous in a good way. If listening to all those sentences is not 
 your thing, you can read it quickly and skip each sentence after tat but it significantly reduces 
 the experience. The storyline also leaves you wanting to know more in the game so once you get 
 hooked you cant stop playing. Music is wonderful as well...
  
  However, if you are not into just living the experience and want to do more than adventuring, you 
 will be disappointed as there are hardly many puzzles to test ur wits. It feels like you're watching 
 a movie but tat is over simplictic. It feels you're acting out the movie. But its not really a 
 bad thing. The challenges the game presents are very easy to solve and figure out. The ending leaves 
 you wanting so much more and you'll feel that the story isnt over. tats for me the worst part.
 
  
  Its a very good game and I cant stop playing it but it won appeal much to hardcore adventure gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven7Claw
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  The game is beautifully designed. From slums of a broken down city to a world in a dream the game 
 really conveys the atmosphere. You feel hooked, immersed into the game and just as it seems like 
 you will get a grand finale with all the louse ends tied up the game just stops and leaves you 
 hanging. If there is a sequel then there is more than enough premise for it. The lack of an ending 
 will frustrate the hell out of you by the end of the game but only because by that time you just 
 love it so much. Despite the disappointment in the end it's a must have for anyone who loves a 
 deep story and good game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_7o7o
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 15, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the most amazing games i ever played , great story , music , and trick , i 
 really enjoyed that , graphics are good , but not great , it could had been better , but in general 
 , this is one of the most amazing games i ever played , and A grade story .............................. 
 but the worst thing was its ending, there must be other parts of that game coming soon , the story 
 didnt finish yet , i cant wait for that !!!! but , for those who didnt play it yet , u MUST go 
 get this game , its fantastic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  This episode of TLJ is more like an additional story to the original one. If you already played 
 TLJ and Dreamfall then you must agree that this story in this saga is becoming more complex, a 
 new perspective , new characters added to the original one and, i must say, that it makes me happy. 
 Happy because i feel that this game is far from it's ending, i could be 50 years old and i'll still 
 be playing this game, i hope that the developers would not wait another 6 years to release the 
 third part of the game.
  
  Compared to TLJ this one is flashy, 3d and all, which is good , the story still is a solid one, 
 still funny and ironic, i enjoyed playing very much and i think i will enjoy playing again soon 
 :D.
  
  The graphics, the sounds, the characters, everything is amazing , the fact that you encounter characters 
 from previous release like the wizard, Westhouse, Brian, Emma, and much more, revisiting the Vennice 
 with Zoe.... the game is very well linked with the familiar and nostalgic places in TLJ.
  
  This is a game that can not be ignored.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbuswell
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  I can honestly say this is, not one of the best but THE best RPG to play on a modern machine.
 
  Ok you have quite a bit of watching instead of doing but the artwork is stunning, the story line 
 is on the whole really good and knits together. The puzzles are difficult sometimes but you get 
 a sense of achievement when you crack them and you don't have to be Einstein to do it. It goes 
 along at a cracking pace and will enthrall you till the end.
  One minor point is that the interface will make you use the odd expletive but once you get use 
 to it it's ok.
  Trust me this is good and I can't wait for the next one ( there better be one!!!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indika_s
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Knowing there might not be a sequel to this game saddens me. As I will never be able to experience 
 this kind of in game experience again. You can say the game isn't up to standards in gameplay which 
 is the main reason that adventure games are falling behind lately. But If you play this game, you 
 will realise that whatever flaws it has compared to other recently released games are meaningless. 
 This game is the prime of all stories told through games.
  
  This one is up there with the greats. For all round gameplay theres the Grand Theft Auto series. 
 For a perfect balance of gameplay and story theres Zelda. For online experience with friends and 
 countless hours of fun theres World of Warcraft. I have extensively played all of these above games 
 and they are all in the 9.5+ in the score section of gamespot reviews. I can say that they are 
 the greatest games I have played.
  
  I can tell you this, the best experience I have ever had in a game is in Dreamfall. I once saw 
 a news segment about computer games and how people are getting deeply affected by them, it mentioned 
 that soon we will reach the concept of the first video game that will make you cry. Dreamfall is 
 that game, the best you can get out of any game that has been made to date.
  
  People say that the ending of Dreamfall isn't great, well if your expecting a cliche then ofcorse 
 its not. I believe as Dreamfall is the 2nd chapter in the longest journey series, it is the climax 
 of the story and the 3rd installment will be the ending.
  
  I would promote this game for anyone to play, it is one of the greatest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semass
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Before anything else could be said about Dreamfall: The Longest Journey there is no denying that 
 it is one of the greatest examples of adventure gaming to have come out of the genre in years. 
 Sporting a story and writing that is not only clean and professional but also intriguing, provoking 
 and genuinely involving, a beautifully detailed landscape that needs little effort in drawing the 
 player in and a cast of characters who are detailed, witty and realistic, there are simply not 
 many games in any genre that can measure up to Dreamfall in it's complexity.
  
  Set ten years after the events that occurred in it's predecessor, The Longest Journey, Dreamfall 
 tells the journey of Zo&euml; Castillo, a young and intelligent college dropout who has hit a wall 
 in her life, choosing to spend her time doing as little as possible rather than trying to find 
 some direction in her path which is what she deeply yearns for. When her ex-boyfriend, best friend 
 and investigative reporter, Reza, asks her a favor doing what seems like a simple courier run she 
 is launched into a journey to stop an evil conspiracy that will take her not only around her own 
 paranoid, technology driven world of Stark but also to it's mirror world, the fantasy, war-torn 
 Arcadia.
  
  Dreamfall's greatest strengths lies in it's storytelling. The complex and thought-provoking plot, 
 the well written and interesting characters and the compelling soundtrack and sound design all 
 mesh well together to present an atmospheric experience that would be an absolute shame to pass 
 up. It almost rivals Hollywood in it's professionalism creating an environment that is not only 
 easy to get lost in but also become emotionally attached to. From it's simple yet drawing start 
 to the emotional and questionable ending it will keep the player involved in all that is happening 
 and leave them yearning for more. In true adventure style it's a very linear game but you will 
 still feel like playing through at least once more to pick up on the many subtle hints and suggestions 
 that are scattered throughout the game that were most likely not picked up on the first time around.
 
  
  However, despite the impressive story and cinematic approach, when it comes down to actual gameplay 
 Dreamfall is a fairly average adventure game. It's puzzles, what little there are, are simplistic 
 and fairly easy providing little challenge to the veterans of the genre and may leave you feeling 
 a bit let down if you were expecting some of the mind-bending, logic-crushers that featured in 
 The Longest Journey. While many may find this a little disconcerting it does serve to keep the 
 game flowing and, if you are prone to such things, keep you away from reaching for the walkthrough. 
 The interface is also nothing inspiring, a simple keyboard and mouse combination that features 
 in almost every third person based game out there. One great addition to the interface though is 
 the 'Focus Field' function that will let you scan around your surroundings for sensitive hot spots, 
 eliminating the old and frustrating 'pixel-hunting' that is the bane of any adventure game. Graphically, 
 while not running on a bleeding-edge powerhouse of an engine, Dreamfall serves a beautiful environment, 
 detailed and unrestrictive characters and nice, flowing animation all leading to a gorgeous, if 
 not awe inspiring, visuals.
  
  Dreamfall tries to be less like a traditional adventure game preferring to mix it with the interactive 
 movie genre that was all the rage a decade ago. Unlike back then though, Dreamfall manages to do 
 it very well and it's storytelling and soundtrack will drown out the lack of innovative gameplay 
 and puzzles leaving a throughly enjoyable experience without either the challenge or frustration. 
 If you haven't played The Longest Journey then there will be the odd occasion that will leave you 
 wondering what is going on but for the most of Dreamfall you won't need to have played the original 
 to enjoy or understand it. It's definitely well worth the time and money and will leave you wanting 
 much, much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Downside
  It took me roughly a day to play and beat this game, and the ending was a total letdown. It just 
 left you there with so many questions, so I wouldnt recommend this game to people looking for a 
 accomplished feeling at the end of this.
  
  Theres not enough stealth for this game, i mean shes walking around into extremely classified territory 
 and running around like its nothing. So yeah, fake brining it to life didnt fool me i knew it was 
 ridiculous. I also think it doesnt split up the characters enough i was playing with Zoe the hole 
 time and April for about a quarter, and kean about 2 minutes total i wanted to be Kean more to. 
 So that was also a let down. And the controls, o GOD the controls! They make it difficult to play 
 because you cant exactly change the keys around just anywhere theres only a very select group of 
 keys that even make it into the games select menu. But once you get use to it its playable if you 
 call clicking the mouse with your left hand and crossing over your right hand to the W, A, S, D 
 key set and tapping SPACE, E, and R almost repeatedly when in battle then yeah its perfectly playable.
 
  
  Good points
  Well with all that said I guess its good points is that the voice acting it revolutionary and best 
 iv heard in any game ever. But the facial expressions dont match they have stiff faces and none 
 important characters dont even move there lips when talking which is a minus. Another good point 
 is that it doesnt lack scenery and atmosphere that normally sells the game. For best example of 
 atmosphere halo compared to halo 2 halo had amazing worlds that everyone wanted to explore over 
 and over. Halo 2 well had a good story line and multi player but the atmosphere made people only 
 favor 1 or 2 levels rather then all 10. And on Dreamfall it has great atmosphere, not amazing graphics 
 but atmosphere ill give it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is totally different than anytihng you've played before. in fact it is not a game but 
 more of an interactive movie. If your on PC it is very annoying at first as it is a straight console 
 port so it takes quite a while to get used to the 90 degree movement juggling between a game pad 
 and mouse. That said it is well worth it. It does take some getting used to but the storyline is 
 engrossing and you wont want to put it down once you get the hang of the controls.
  
  The story is based around Zoe Castillo, the best computer babe since Lara croft and the uninitentional 
 adventures of her mispent youth. It's hard to say anymore without giving away spoilers but to sum 
 up, the sound is probably the best in any game I've heard, voice acting is superb, graphics are 
 top notch, there are frequent load times between scenes but these are quick and efficient. My only 
 grumble is that this being a console port is having to use a gamepad and movement at right angles 
 which simply sucks.
  
  If this game had been designed properly for pc I would give it a 10, but given it is a console 
 port the gameplay greatly lets it down and obviously lack of multiplayer affects the value score 
 - this is a short game and is certainly no oblivion (which would give you 150+ hours single player 
 gameplay plus mods) .
  
  Nevertheless, this game is well worth the ride.
  
  If you like this review recommend it please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcpeterson
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 19, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Calling this mess a Game is being way too generous. The user interface is nothing but frustrating. 
 This thing isn't a game with interesting cut-scenes, it's a B movie with periodic fits of user 
 frustration (input) . The kicker is that when you do get a chance to play , you never really have 
 any choices to make and when you think you might be making choices, it becomes very apparent that 
 you have ZERO ability to actually affect the game.
  
  ... movie... pause for user input... ignore user input and resume movie...
  
  The developers worked 
 really hard to eliminate any possibility of interacting with anything that is not absolutely necessary. 
 The worlds are pretty, but boring.
  
  The story is semi interesting, but ultimately this is nothing more than a prequel. I want my money, 
 and the time I wasted on this stupid game back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  This is a great game that is fully in 3D. I love adventure games and this one was exceptionally 
 well done in the story. The story for me was abit weird and got me lost on some points but the 
 voice and sound in this game are amazing. The graphics are great and the camera movement is about 
 right. It is a pretty easy game in which you do not need much walkthrough. The loading can get 
 quite tiresome as you are in the city and have to run through the town but it is acceptable. You 
 do from time to time change characters during the game. If you are a hard core inventory and games 
 adventurer, I would tell you to skip this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caleb_Holcombe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 12, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  Ragnar Tornquist, the mastermind behind The Longest Journey , Jumps back into action with the long 
 awaited sequel Dreamfall: The Longest Journey .
  
  Now there is a lot to say about this game... so much that the official Dreamfall forums  
 are almost always populated with people that have questions and ideas about the amazing story, 
 wonderful characters, and changes of game play from the first game. The problem is that almost 
 nothing can be said without experiencing the story first. Its easy to say that any and all game 
 play issues are easily overlooked simply for the sake of the glorious tale to be told.
  
  Unlike the first game you are now in direct third person control of the hero. Searching and examining 
 control have been made very tight with a focus field activated with the click of a button and manipulated 
 in all directions at your will. Player controlled battle sequences have been filed neatly into 
 Dreamfall, but falls short of being challenging and often feels slippery and out of tune, though 
 it does not take away from the gaming experience as a whole. Puzzles are still a big part of the 
 game but have been stocked slightly less difficult making for a smoother moving ride while still 
 being very enjoyable.
  
  The voice acting for Dreamfall is great. The voices really bring to life the characters feelings 
 and personalities and really carry's the story along.
  
  The world ('s) of Dreamfall are filled with so much unique and creative content and characters that 
 drive one of the greatest story's every told. After playing Dreamfall (and The Longest Journey 
 ) you will feel like a kid again laying in bed just after your mother has told you your favorite 
 story. You will feel warm, happy, scared, excited, sad, anxious to see what happens next, but most 
 of all completely blown away by this alternate existence that feels so real.
  
  If you haven't played The Longest Journey , the first installment in the series, then its advised 
 that you do so to get the most from Dreamfall, but it is set up well enough to be enjoyed without 
 previous knowledge of the first game. Take the time to drive to your game store and pick up a copy 
 and enjoy this amazing installment in The Longest Journey chapters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  Intro: Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is the second game in The Longest Journey series. Unlike 
 the first game where you took on the role of April Ryan, yu now play a young girl from Casablanca; 
 Zoe Castillo. The game is a joy to play, but at the end, you just wish it would keep going.
  
  Graphics 10/10:
  The graphics in Dreamfall are stunning. The backgrounds and scenery are 
 fantastic to look at and by using some good camera angles you can really take it all in and enjoy 
 it. Characters models are fantastic too. No two characters look alike, not even the simple people 
 who wander the streets. Each have their own unique appearance. In terms of the three main characters; 
 Zoe April and Kian, they're models and texturing are amazing. They all really look like at any 
 moment they could jump out of the computer screen and have a conversation with you. Occasionally 
 you'll see some minor clipping at limb joints, but its very minor and not a problem. One thing 
 you'll notice straight away in cut scenes is facial expressions. These have been done well and 
 the characters express what they feel, well on their face. There are eyebrow movements when they're 
 angry, rolling of the eyes when they're frustrated and looking away when they're trying to avoid 
 a subject.
  
  Gameplay 10/10:
  Gameplay is simply amazing it takes the best of the Adventure genre, sticks it together and then 
 expands on it to improve it even more! Unlike your typical point and click adventure, Dreamfall 
 will having you take full control of your character with WASD and moving them around. How this 
 works, for example, is to interact with an object you need to walk up to it and click on it. This 
 is quite different to a typic adventure, but works very very well. In terms of puzzles, they are 
 fairly generic amd are few. There are only two 'real' puzzles that are used numerous times in the 
 game. They aren't particularly hard, but will require a bit of thinking to get. However this is 
 not to say there aren't other puzzle type situations in the game (trust me, there is plenty) , there 
 just aren't typical type puzzles. When you begin the game you'll find the controls quite difficult 
 to use and very frustrating. However by lowering the mouse sensitivity by a lot it suddenly becomes 
 much much easier to use and to understand. You use the mouse to control the camera and WASD to 
 move. One of the more controversial aspects of Dreamfall is the combat system. From other reviews 
 I have read people seem to feel it was not needed and just added on for the sake of it. Whilst 
 I agree the game could have been done just as well without it, I think its nice for a change to 
 get out of a cut scene and have a bit of action. You can use a light or heavy attack or you can 
 block. Its fairly straight forward and easy, but can be quite refreshing midgame. Also, at times 
 its more like watching a movie than playing a game. There are many cut scenes in the game, all 
 very interesting, but if you're not thrilled by the game this can get tiring.
  
  Sound 10/10:
  The musical score in Deamfall is fantastic and really sets the mood well. There 
 is a lovely range of background music and ambient sound in Deamfall, each suits its environment 
 very well without influencing you to much about your current situation. Surprisingly, some areas 
 of the game have no background music, this may seem strange at first but is actually very clever. 
 By having no music like that it sets a very different tone for your current area, often a little 
 tense or scary. In terms of sound effects its all done brilliantly, everything sounds very realistic. 
 Finally we have voice acting. The voice acting in this game is the best I have ever seen it. Each 
 actor has been well cast to their character and it all seems very real. There is great expression 
 in each voice and it helps you feel for that character. Also, there's no clunky dialogue or weird 
 pauses that other games with voice acting have. Two thumbs up!
  
  Story 10/10:
  Normally I don't have a story section in my review, but Dreamfall needs one as the entire game 
 is heavily based around an amazing story. The Dreamfall story is very original and is unlike anything 
 else you will play, well, except the prequel. You play as a young girl named Zoe Castillo who lives 
 an ordinary life in Casablanca. She's going through a bit of a rough patch as the game begins, 
 she has nothing to do, she dropped out of university, she's lost faith in life basically. Also, 
 she has been having strange dreams and on top of that she has been seeing a strange girl calling 
 her name and asking for her help on tv screens. Suddenly things take a turn for the worst when 
 her best friend goes missing and she goes off ti find him. The story is great and will keep you 
 well hooked for the whole game. The end is a real cliffhanger though so don't expect and loose 
 ends tied up.
  
  Value 7/10:
  The only let down of the game. The main storyline itself only takes roughly 15 hours to beat, and 
 thats if you explore and talk to everybody! There are no side quests to do and nothing else to 
 achieve, so when you're done, thats it. Unless of course you want to go play it again! Which is 
 highly likely. Outro 9.6/10
  Dreamfall is an awesome game and a real treat to play. The graphics and music are stunning, the 
 gameplay intuitive and it is really only let down by the fact it is to short. On top of all that 
 it has one of the best stories you will get in a game! I highly recommend this game to everyone, 
 not nnecessarily to buy as this is not a game for everyone, but at least to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leecy1
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The story is intriguing but this should not overshadow the basic need for gaming elements. The 
 distinct lack of puzzles or choices makes the experience more like that of reading a book.
  To use one example: there was a section of the game (spoiler) where you enter this ethereal realm. 
 The environment would be perfect for intergration of some interesting puzzles. But instead, you 
 just have to walk all the way to your target, initiate a long conversation (over which you have 
 little control) and then leave by the same path you came. So, my questions is, why have the player 
 do the tedious chore of walking the character back and forth? If there are to be no gameplay elements 
 in the entire section, why not just turn it into a cutscene ?
  
  There are lots of examples like this.
  
  To be fair, there is a small handful of puzzles, but 
 not many at all.
  
  The control is a bit awkward and unintuitive. The 'ending' is unsatisfactory, but in my book, I 
 will not call this an ending at all, just a cliff hanger.
  
  I guess I went into the game expecting too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valon34
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This games is the greatest game i ever played. I like it alot, the different worlds are very cool. 
 This game took me out my seat. I know others would agree with me to. Dreamfall The Longest Journey 
 remids me of the ring which is a good thing. Find April Ryan, Save April Ryan. Wow I love this 
 game alot i really like all the characters Reza Aka Jericho, Zoe Catillo, April Ryan, and Kian, 
 The dreams in this games are very sick and freaky. But, in the end i suggest you should buy this 
 game if like Indigo Prophecy, Syria 1 and 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 20, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  I had just finished the game and you know the feeling of the game itself is still strong. I am 
 now so deep into it that I can't wait for the next chapter of the Longest Journey (it will be for 
 sure!) . OK now from the beggining. When the game starts you can see not a young man writing in 
 some sort of diary of his. From very beggining of his tale and the game itself you understand that 
 this game will be none of you had ever played! Storyline: The story is about a young girl Zoe Castillo. 
 She is always out of herself. She lost the aim and any reason to live and enjoy her life. Each 
 day is the same as the other, the only joy of her life is her robo-monkey and TV. She had just 
 broke up with her long loved boyfriend, left the univercity and now she is in search for herself. 
 But everything will change as soon as she will agree to do a favour for her ex. First easy task 
 to take some package for Reza (her ex-boyfriend) , turns out into the journey you had never seen 
 or played. I must point out that it is directly connected to the first chapter of this wonderfull 
 saga: The Longest Journey. You will even be able to play as April Ryan (the main character of the 
 first game) , but the story is very different from the previous one! I can even say that it is the 
 greatest story I had ever met in the game! It is interesting, not boring, looks like nothing from 
 past. Graphics &amp; Sound: The graphics of this game are really good comparing to other games 
 released in this year. Ofcourse it is not the The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion one but still the 
 picture on your display will be very beautifull if you have high quality GPU ofcourse. Besides 
 this game is not about the picture, it is about the story itself! Sound in this game is good. All 
 the sounds of nature, living city or swamps is really good. Especialy the Soundtrack of the game... oh 
 it is GREAT... it fits the game and I now understand why it was nominated for the Best Soundtrack 
 of 2006 by MTV. Gameplay: The gameplay of the game is very comfortabe. Even playing the game on 
 PC is easy. I was using only one hand all the way and two only during the fights. The game is mostly 
 about searching out the things (wich is easy if you are thinking in the right way) , solving different 
 prroblems and sometimes knocking someone out. I really like the game because the developers were 
 thinking when creating different puzzle situations, you can solve them just by thinking. It looks 
 like they were predicting the way you will be playing the game and have everything ready for getting 
 out of another situation. Battles with enemies are rear and easy, you will get everything after 
 training in the gym at the beggining of the game. Total: I can say that this game is real masterpiece! 
 I think that it is the type of the game wich the real self respecting gamer must buy. The story 
 is so interesting that after beating the game you will, as I do, waiting for the continue of the 
 saga in the third chapter. Tahir Yazon Tillyaev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imperator_zeus
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  After the first The Longest Journey who was a real succes in 2000, now is the time for Dreamfall 
 to continue the superb story.
  In this second part you will meet again characters like April Rayn and Crow, but you'll play the 
 most time with Zoe and a litlle with a fighter. Yes, it is an adventure but it will be litlle action 
 parts. In my opinion they are realized very good.
  The story is simply briliant! So much creativity and orignality I havent seen by many years. The 
 graphics again are very very detailed. Is simply the best graphic in a adventure. The music is 
 very good chosen and makes a briliant athmosphere and the voice acting is superb. The puzzles arent' 
 very hard but some of them are funny and innovative. Buy this game and you wont regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 21, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  I am currently suffering from a medical condition called Excessive yawning 
  Today I realized this happened to me as I first started playing
  DreamFall. the more I played, 
 the worst it got.
  Is it a coincidence or it is some how related to the game?!
  Although I have played some quite interesting adventures,
  I am not really a devoted point and 
 click adventure fan. It lacks the thrill and excitement of an action adventure which
  keeps you going for more. Some are have really hard irrational puzzles, some are so infantile that 
 even a 4 years old can play. (this seems to be epidemic these days, TRL etc..) so there is no challenge 
 at all.
  Unlike many gamers, I was not so thrilled by the first part, TLJ either,
  I played it mainly because as a girl I mostly
  play games with female protagonists and then I 
 have read so many
  positive reviews about it, which motivated me. it was worth playing but I was sure not overwhelmed. 
 But at least the puzzles were for grown up not for kids in the kindergarten!
  going back to Dreamfall. A video game has a certain description,
  as well as an animation Film. 
 DreamFall is neither fish, flesh nor fowl.
  Some players said that DF should have been a film. I would say this game with it's endless monologue 
 and tiny levels, is more like a play.
  Now let's be fair. the story is rather catching and the voice acting also good. (it is the most 
 important part in a play, isn't it) .
  and the music, apparently a MTV price winner,
  doesn't impresses me. If I want to hear good music, there are many
  good video clips available.
 
  Some level designs are also nice, the best in Newport, mainly because
  of its nostalgia, but Casablanca, my god, ancient, so very TR2, Lara in Venice.
  Anyway, by and 
 large, I was really disappointed. I went through many articles, reviews, reader reviews in Gamespot, 
 but sorry guys I just do not agree with you.
  I want my money back!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  The driving force behind DreamFall: The Longest Journey is a well-balanced combination of an immersive 
 story and endearing characters. DreamFall is a sequel that does not have to be played second in 
 The Longest Journey series, but having played the first is helpful in knowing the background of 
 one of the main characters and meeting old characters from the first game.
  
  In the game you begin as Zo&euml; Castillo, a young girl recently out of school, broken up with 
 her long time boyfriend and best friend, and fallen into a slump; lacking motivation and wondering 
 what her purpose in life is supposed to be. Her lifes ambition is null until she gets a call from 
 her ex-boyfriend and he asks a simple favor of her. Before she knows it, Zo&euml; s wrapped up 
 in a mystery involving her ex, a large corporation and the local police. She attempts to find out 
 whats happened to her now missing ex and travels the globe to uncover the truth; all the while 
 falling into a dream-like state of which she is confused and foggy.
  
  DreamFall is set in three realms, or worlds, that Zo&euml; travels to unwittingly at first. She 
 doesn't know whether or not these realms are dreams or real, and neither does the player. There 
 are two other main characters that play crucial roles in the game, but arent as prominent and 
 their stories fall short of Zo&euml; s but are also an integral part of her journey. Their stories 
 and worlds are intertwined; one chapter in the game even being called Convergence when the three 
 characters meet. The other two characters are April Ryan, the protagonist from the first Longest 
 Journey and Kian, a religious man devoted to his beliefs, both stubborn and warm hearted.
  
  The story is so well-written and the chapters divided up so perfectly you cant help but be 
 completed drawn in by it, waiting in anticipation to see what is going to happen next. I found 
 Zo&euml; and Kians stories to be immersive, Kians was too short for my liking as he seemed like 
 a great character that could have done so much more and Aprils was a little too predictable for 
 my tastes.
  
  Unlike most adventure games, in DreamFall you play in third person view and interact more realistically 
 with the environment; no pointing and clicking but actually physically turning a wheel or picking 
 up an item. Interestingly enough, there is a small amount of combat, in most instances you can 
 avoid it completely, that is very easy to do. Zo&euml; fights with Karate; April and Kian fight 
 with swords. Kians story involves a great deal more combat then the others; Zo&euml; can avoid 
 almost every single fight by sneaking, quickly getting past an enemy or averting their attention.
 
  
  Graphically, DreamFall is breathtaking. The three different realms are painstakingly detailed; 
 even one realm that consists of almost all black, white and grey is so defined you feel like youre 
 there in person. The characters, while sometimes stiff in facial movements, have a unique eye-movement 
 that brings more dimension to their characters than any game Ive seen before.
  
  For an 18-hour game, the only downside I found with DreamFall is the endings and length. The only 
 ending I felt was close to complete was Zo&euml; s ending whereas April and Kians were very short 
 and left you wanting more and wondering what happened after the last screen you see of them. Overall 
 the game could have been a few more hours long; thats how enthralled you are with the story and 
 characters; you just want more. There were a lot of open endings and questions that make me think 
 the developers are planning a third game and left the player hanging for a reason.
  
  DreamFall is an incredibly amazing game that surpasses what I believe a game categorized as Adventure 
 should be. I would recommend this for anyone, young or old, given the only stipulation is that 
 there is a lot of dialogue and not a lot of combat. Some have referred to DreamFall as an animated 
 movie or an animated novel, and I can see why it would be referred to as such either way its 
 an outstanding game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarinho
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is masterpiece storytelling and a perfect showcase on how great characters can make a 
 game become much more than it truly is. You can read the details in the GS review, i&acute; ll just 
 add that the story is really that good and the characters really that great. But i wished there 
 was a little more game , there&acute; s not that much interaction with the game, it&acute; s fairly 
 linear... like a straight line. It&acute; s very easy too, on most occasions you&acute; ll need just 
 half a second to know what to do next. Controls are good (avoid mouse+keyb like plague - use gamepad 
 instead) , graphics are really good, specially on the creative side, and the sound is awesome.
 
  Even if its more of an interactive story than game, and you&acute; re robbed of an ending, summing 
 it up Dreamfall is an awesome experience and i definitely recommend it to any adventure gamer out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GermanDoc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Funcom have not only combined good storyline and characters but have also made a very good RPG 
 adventure with numerous twists and turns. The best thing is the various characters that you have 
 to control and how they interact differently with the same people. A thorougly entertaining game 
 with lots of mysteries and puzzles. It just lacks a bit more user interaction and also length. 
 The game ends at a place where you just dont wanna let go because you are really into the worlds 
 now. I reccomend this game to everyone and hope that I am able to play a second part of this fantastic 
 adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsinc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall takes up 10 years after The Longest Journey left off. In Dreamfall you can play as three 
 charcters, Zoe (Who you are most of the game) , April (From The Longest Journey) , and Kian.
  
  The story if full of dialog, which in my opinion helps evolve the story greatly, even if it 
 seems lengthly at times. Dreamfall contains some puzzles, their difficulty however isn't very hard. 
 Unlike The Longest Journey, you probably woun't be spending a lot of time getting past a particular 
 point in the game.
  
  Dreamfall also has introduced a combat system, which never existed in the original. The placement 
 of combat isn't excessive, but its rather simple. Almost too simple. This is probably one of the 
 weaker points of the game. The strongest attribute of Dreamfall, like its prequel is the story. 
 When it comes down to it Dreamfall is really an excellently written novel that you take place in. 
 The story and characters are well written, and even if you've never played TLJ, you still will 
 be hooked. If you have played TLJ, then Dreamfall is a definate must.
  
  The only real disapointment in my opinion is the length of the game. Gameplay is a bit under 15hrs 
 depending on how fast you play. This is about half the length of TLJ. The ending will also leave 
 you screaming for another sequal, which I am egarly awaiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdohaney
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 6, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Great graphics, interesting story, tons of interesting characters, and a billion unanswered questions 
 at the end of the game. I mean I have heard of cliff hangers but Dreamfall takes it to another 
 level. You are left wondering why you completed many of the quests you were on and why the storyline 
 introduces aspects of the game that never come into play. I am assuming another release is right 
 around the corner so gamers can quench their thirst for the many unanswered questions the game 
 creates. But even with the cliff-hanger storyline the game is definitely a winner in my book. It 
 kept me glued to my computer while the story unraveled. At this point I am just worried that the 
 next release will take as long as the second one took to come out, compared to the first title. 
 Give this game a try but keep in mind that you will be wanting much more at its end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kavehmj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey
  
  : 
   
 : Aspyr
  : Funcom
   : Apr 17, 2006  
   :
  Game Spot: 8.1
  IGN:
  Game Rnakings:77.0
  
    
    
      
      
    
   .  
       
      
   .  
      
     
     
     
 .
  
    :  
      
      
  Longest Journey    
   .  
     
    
    
 (   
    ...   
      
     
     
  .   
     
     
     
      
       
     
    
  2005)  .  
     
     
      
      
     
     
    
 .    
      
     
     
 (April Ryan) .    
      
     
 .   
      
      
    ( 
      
     
 Arcadia)    .  
      
     
      
     
      
     
 .   
     
     
    .  
      
     
  
       
 The Longest Journey   Dreanfall   
     
  2006  .  
      
      
      
     
     
     
      
     
    . 
     
    
     
      
       
      
      
      
  2006 (  
   )  
 .
  
   :  
     
  .   
    
      
       
     
     
      
     
      
   . 
    
     
    .  
     
     
      
  .  
      
      
      
  .   
     
       
       
    . 
     
      
     
     
      
  .
       
     
   (Zo Castillo)  
  .   
      
     
    ) . 
      
     
 .    
    
       
    
   .    
      
   .   
     
       
    
    . 
      
      
     
     
      
     
   ...
  
   :   
 Dreamfall     
 .   
     
      
      
     
  .  
      
     
  .    
     
     
   .  
     
     
      
    
     
     
  .
      
    . 
      
    
      
      
      . 
     
      
      
      
  .   
     
    
      
    
      
      
      
     
    
 .
  
  :   
      
 .    
     
     
     
     
    3   
   .  
      
 ,     
     
 .    
      
      
      
 .   
      
    ( 
     
     
   .)   
      
     
  .   
     
       
     
  .   
     
      
     
      
      . 
      
      
     
    
 2  3   (  
   ) 
   .   
      
 M Rating    
      
    .
  
   :  
      
     
  .  
     
     
 .    
     
     
     
      
    .  
     
     
      
     
     
       
     
 .   
     
      
     
 .
      
      
   . 
     
     
      
   ...   
   .  
      
 4d    
     
    ( 
     
   ) 
    .
 
  
   :   
     
  (   
   ...)   
     . 
     
     
    . 
     
     
   WASD    
     
   .  
      
     
   . 
     
     
      
      
     
      
       
    
  .   
      
    .  
     
    .
 
  
   :   
      
   . 
      
 Dreamfall    
      
    . 
     
       
      
  .    
      
      
      
      
      
  .   
       
      
      
     
      
      
  .
  
  
   Dreamfall: The Longest Journey  
     
      
 2006   .  
     
      
     
    
  .
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
 ....     
      
    
   . 
    
    ( 
   )   
     
     
  (  ) 
      
      
     
  (   
    
 )    
     
  .
  
  : Darinoos. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aesrys
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  My wife played both TLJ and Dreamfall and loved them. Since we tend to play games at the same time, 
 I got to listen (and watch) both stories unfold. They're really incredible stories with a great 
 (and very sarcastic) sense of humor. With the way Dreamfall ended, all I can say is that they'd 
 BETTER make another sequel! Too many story lines were left open and the ending definitely leaves 
 you wanting more. It's funny, but I think I got into the games even more than my wife did, and 
 she played them. Both games are definitely worth your time, especially if you love a good story. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  For those that don't know, Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is the long awaited sequel to the big 
 adventure hit 'The Longest Journey' which put you in control of April Ryan, in the sequel you take 
 control of both April Ryan and new character Zoe Castillo. You also get to control Kian. The big 
 problem when any game, Movie, Music that is a massive hit around the World, is that the sequel 
 will never usually out do the original. This is the same case, well it wasn't the case for me but 
 was a big problem when the game launched (the game launched slightly later in the UK) . As I said 
 earlier, Dreamfall is in my view one of the best adventure games released for sometime. Why? because 
 it ticked every box I had for an Adventure game. The Story was thrilling and very interesting, 
 the characters were well designed again and the dialogue which the game had many (but that never 
 bothered me) . Graphically the game looks fantastic and one of the great experiences is seeing everything 
 you reconise from 'The Longest Journey' in 3D. But like every game, it as it's problems. One thing 
 I stand by in any adventure game is that action or fighting should never be used. Why? because 
 it's just trying to appeal to more player (which I can understand) but they don't really need to. 
 I think it's good that adventure games are trying new gameplay features but many miss the mark 
 by miles and the fighting in this game (sometimes interesting) can get really frustrating very 
 fast. This for me spoilt the overall gameplay experience. (Much like the Sneaking gameplay Feature 
 in Broken Sword: The Sleeping Dragon) . Now to Voice Acting, I always say that the two key aspects 
 for an Adventure game to be a success is 1. A good story 2. Well written Dialogue. Dreamfall as 
 both worked brilliantly and every line by every character is brilliant thought out and written 
 to help the story feel that bit more immersive. One thing you will notice is that the end of the 
 game does leave you on a cliff hanger, which probably means that there is more to come for the 
 series. Which can only be a good thing. This game truelly was immersive and I won't mind saying, 
 Emotional. Especially the ending. Well I'll let you guys play it to find out...............
  
  FINAL THOUGHT!!
  
  PROS:
  -Well written storyline which continues from 'The Longest Journey' 
 well.
  -Characters are immersive an interesting.
  -Great Graphics.
  -Great music all through the game.
  
  CONS
  -Fighting gameplay is a letdown.
  -Cliff Hanger 
 ending might leave some angry.
  -We will have to wait for the Third game in the series :)
  
  OVERALL
  A great immersive adventure game that any adventure fan should try, why not try 
 it even if your not an adventure fan. Although it as it's problems, doesn't every game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaurenKowalczyk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so last week I went out and bought the Dreamfall game for my PC. I was looking for something 
 differant and thought that this game was just the thing. I wasn't disappointed. This game truly 
 delivered . What bugs me are the games that are just full of killing and action but no plot, and 
 this game was very refreshing. As you went through the game, you unraveled a huge conspiracy and 
 got to go around differant worlds as differant people. It was full of mystery, and had a good balance 
 of storyline and fighting. The one true problem with the game was the fact that most of the cutscenes 
 where people talk, are just too long. I found myself getting quite bored even though the talking 
 was essential to the game. The graphics were also good.. but not great. The people weren't realistic 
 looking enough and when they talked you couldn't see any part of their faces moving except their 
 mouths. The final problem with this game that truly bothered me though, was the ending. Usually 
 when games end, they wrap up the storyline and everything seems final. This game however, left 
 many things untold. This probably means that a sequal will be made, but still most other games 
 with sequals still manage to wrap up each seperate game. Also, the ending was bad because your 
 character dies. You spend the whole game going to differant worlds and breaking into dangerous 
 places and you manage to just die in the end. You feel as though the whole journey was pointless. 
 I'm not saying that the game was terrible though, don't get me wrong. It was awesome . It's just 
 that it wasn't perfect just like every other game out there. If they make a sequal than I am without 
 a doubt going to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I like the adventure game genre. The best one I played was Syberia 1. It was beautiful to look 
 at and the puzzles were logical, and challenging enough. Dreamfall is in that category. I play 
 adventure games for the story and the graphics. I also enjoy getting to know the characters. It 
 is like a video novel. I dislike puzzles so difficult that I have to play out of the game guide. 
 Games like Mysterious Island, where even with the game guide at my side was impossible to move 
 forward. I recommend this game to all you adventure gamers. Be aware that this is a mature game 
 with very mature words and content. Not a good game for a 10 year old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall is not about fast twitch reflexes. Its not tactics or strategy. Its not about competition 
 or high scores. And yet, its still incredibly fun. Dreamfall is a great example of interactive 
 storytelling. Its a lost art in video games these days. Dreamfall weaves a great tale. Not only 
 that, but it also gives life and feeling to each and every character you interact with. Even though 
 its a fantasy setting the people react as we would expect real people to. We can empathize with 
 them. That makes the game all the more engrossing.
  
  Some may pass it off as just another adventure game. Youll be sorry. Try this game. You wont 
 regret it. However, if you are the type to play a game just to see the biggest BOOM, you may want 
 to skip this one. Its more akin to reading a good book than seeing an action movie. And its a 
 real page turner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellcommando
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  This is one of the game that impress me well among the game i have played. I like the story very 
 well, it just like reading a novel, erm, maybe more than that, you are playing as a character inside, 
 read what they thought, their characteristic, different character has it own thought. The storyline 
 is very good, actually if you understand well, you wont feel it is complex, but interesting, and 
 i want to praise that the writer has written a great story. It contains all story needs, such as 
 suspense, surprising and all that, and the game has great design, i really like this game, and 
 i just finished playing. I hope the writer can write more game with interesting story, I looking 
 for that. Erm, only one thing that is not perfect enough, that is the combat system, when combat 
 comes, all just like locking you and you have no chance to feel the combat, but this is not a combat 
 game and contains very less combat, so that I still feel satisfaction with this game, it probably 
 worth to play, gamers, worth to play. Actually when I know it nears the end, I keep hoping this 
 game wont end, it really fascinating... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonikin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall : The Longest Journey is a 3rd person adventure game from Funcom. Dreamfall starts you 
 off as Zo Castillo, a young woman who just dropped out of school and broke up with her long time 
 boyfriend. Emotionally depressed and lacking direction Zo ends up embarking on an adventure where 
 the stakes are high, and things arent always what they seem to be. 
  
  What is a dream? What is reality? What is faith? These are only a few of the questions that Zo 
 and you are going to be asking while you play through a complex sci-fi / fantasy story and meet 
 up with some of the most memorable characters with superb voice acting.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey may be a 3rd person adventure game, but it also incorporates action 
 elements as well. Dreamfall brings to the table some melee fighting, stealth scenes and chase sequences 
 along with the typical adventure game puzzle solving. The extra elements are a welcome change of 
 pace to the typical adventure puzzles and fit well into the story, but they are also more or less 
 simplistic. 
  
  The fighting handles almost like The Path of Neo two button fighting, minus all the cool moves. 
 Every enemy can be defeated easily by either button mashing or circle strafing, which can make 
 the fighting a little repetitive. Luckily there are only a handful of fighting scenes and only 
 where the story demands for one. 
  
  The stealth elements are similar to Beyond Good and Evil where you have to hold the Ctrl button 
 and avoid detection or hide behind objects for cover. Like the fighting scenes, there arent that 
 many stealth scenes, but the stealth elements feel a little more deep and complete. There are however 
 a few nice touches to the stealth scenes, where your environment has an effect. For instance, common 
 sense tells us that stepping on broken glass makes noise. 
  
  There are one or two chase scenes in the entire game, and they are not done as well as in The 
 Warriors or Beyond Good and Evil, but instead they are there to push you into the next area 
 at a faster than usual rate. 
  
  There are a number of different puzzles in Dreamfall. The lock picking and hacking mini-games get 
 more difficult as the game progresses, while the inventory puzzles are well done and fairly challenging 
 at times. 
  
  While there are many elements that make up this game, the game isnt all that difficult, but it 
 isnt a walk in the park either. 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  While Dreamfalls graphics might not be as high quality as Myst or other adventure games, theyre 
 not trying to be either. Instead, Dreamfall has a more stylized look to it. This graphic style 
 fits perfectly with the game and offers the realism and character emotions it needs, along with 
 the exaggeration and eccentricity it wants.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound quality is where Dreamfall really shines. The background music is nice and always fits 
 the mood, but its the voice acting that makes it so special. Dreamfall is filled with numerous 
 talented voice actors who play their role exceptionally well. During many of the dialogue scenes, 
 you can sit back and just watch the screen as it feels like watching a movie. 
  
  Value:
  
  Dreamfall is definitely worth the money. It will keep you busy for at least 10hrs, even more 
 if you want to replay it to hear some extra dialogue. On the downside however, Dreamfall ends on 
 one of the biggest cliff hanger endings ever. It feels as if the last few chapters of a book were 
 ripped out. On the other hand, it does leave you wanting morea lot more. Unfortunately the game 
 doesnt leave you with any concept art or extras for beating the game either. Hopefully it wont 
 take another 6 years for the story to be completed or at least continued.
  
  Tilt:
  
  As far as adventure games go, Dreamfall is excellent. Its rare to see a game with such good voice 
 acting and such an immersive and incredible story. The characters are some of the best in any video 
 games. It just feels like a magnificent game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luin_gunners
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 18, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  The first impression of this game for me was quite disappointing. Way too much talking and a camera 
 that was awkward for me to use. But after enduring the first half hour and dwelled into the story 
 of the game, it was really good. So this is a case of: first impressions dont always last.
 
  Graphics: The graphics of this game is acceptable, nothing in the league of games like Oblivion. 
 The scenery is great but the lack of control for a free view is missed. The models of the characters 
 are adequate, but the sour note is the animation of the combat. But seeing how this is supposed 
 to be an adventure game, I guess it can be forgiven.
  Game-play: Instead of the point and click of Mist and Syberia, the wasd control is implemented. 
 No hints for the quest and puzzles are given, but everything can be solved by your using commonsense. 
 The NPCs actions are all scripted, people just walk around the same area back and forth, no big 
 deal here, as you would have moved on to another part of the game and forgotten about them. The 
 dialogue choices are basic, angry or plead, etc. There are a lot of times where these choices arent 
 available.
  This game is also quite forgiving; a few moments in the game it lets the player have a second chance 
 without having to reload the game. The combat is very simple but infrequent, not a violent game 
 and there is a lot of times where you would just want to smash someones skull.
  Sound: A LOT of talking here. This is what got me a bit annoyed at the start; blame it on all the 
 action games I have been playing. You can right click to fast forward all the talking, but it just 
 doesnt have the feel to the story. The voice acting of the main characters is spot on; sadly 
 the same can not be said for all. The music great, just loved it, especially when there is something 
 of great urgency happening.
  In a nut shell: A very accessible adventure game to everyone with great characters. But this is 
 not for those with little or no patience. Also not for those that dont like to think a lot while 
 playing games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: quick_heart
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 17, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  The game is nice actually, you start playing with zoe, a 20 year old girl, droped college, she 
 has no meaning for life, and starts doing some kind of adventure.
  
  The story is attracting, times when it gets very heated, time when it is indescribable, although, 
 half the time you just walk around, solve some crappy puzzle, sometime fight some boring people, 
 hear peoples problem, or let them hear your problem.
  
  If you played the first TLJ series, and you expect that it is going to be like the previous game, 
 then you will be disappointed, as i said, crappy puzzle, very short story, ending is SO confusing, 
 you feel like you crying out loud, but there are rumors that there is going to be a sequel for 
 it (there should be actually) .
  
  in the end, the game is enjoyable, worth your time
  
  ENJOY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catwolf
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 16, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall is a game I randomly picked up, used, in a game store because it looked interesting. 
 I havent played the original, nor had I heard of this game before then. I dont claim to have 
 loads of gaming experience, but heres my two cents on the game...
  Soonward.
  Ive read some reviews that complain about the graphics, but I really dont think theyre so bad. 
 Ive seen worse.
  The story was the strongest point in this game, which only makes sense given the type of game it 
 is. But I really cant say enough good about it. Its really what kept me playing considering the 
 lack of any other really engaging aspects. The fighting in the gamewhich there is very little 
 ofis really rather a joke. It fits in well enough with the game, but you might as well tell me 
 to lift a grocery bag for how much of a challenge any of the fighting is.
  I ended up actually caring about the characters, which is pretty much the thing that is the deciding 
 factor between what I consider a pretty good game and a great game.
  My only real problem with the game is the ending. Not being familiar with the other world from 
 the original game, I was fairly intrigued when I was thrown into it and met new characters. Questions 
 were raised, I met more characters that I started to care something about, several storylines were 
 up and running and thenend. I felt almostcheated. When I got to the end, I felt like I was halfway 
 through the story. Almost nothing was concluded, tied up, put to a satisfactory end. I actually 
 said and? The rest of the story? to the tv. I really hope theres another game after this so 
 they can tie up all the millions of unfinished lines.
  But againI do really like this game. The voice acting is good, the graphics are fine, the story 
 thats there (unfinished though it seems) is engaging, and I was very much pulled into the game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Very few games could really qualify as truly interesting, moving, or emotional affairs; Dreamfall: 
 The Longest Journey, however, manages to be all of those things and much more. The sequel to 2000s 
 The Longest Journey, Dreamfall brings the now archaic adventure functions to bold new life, crafting 
 an enthralling, modern and clever adventure complete with biting dialogue, adult themes, and wonderfully 
 strange locations and characters. To put it bluntly, Dreamfall is one of the best adventure games 
 in years.
  
  Of course, it deserves more explanation than that. Dreamfall follows the life of a young adult 
 named Zo Castillo, a charming young girl who lives her father and their cuddly AI-monkey, Wonkers, 
 in Casablanca. Shes just dropped out of bioengineering university, as well as broken up with her 
 long-time boyfriend, Reza, a journalist. Its safe to say shes seen better days, especially since 
 a haunting vision of a creepy house and a little girl seem to follow her wherever she goes. Needless 
 to say, these stalking visions are more than just a coincidence, and soon Zo finds herself transcending 
 worlds on an adventure to save freewill as we know it.
  
  Theres much to be said about Dreamfalls story. Its full of razor-sharp, realistic dialogue, 
 and the characters you come across fit their roles to an absolute tee. When you first meet one 
 of Zos friends in the early sections of the game, you can feel chemistry between them, a comfort 
 zone for the two. They really do seem like friends. On the other hand, the bit characters come 
 across as unique personalities without being too interesting, so that when their short role is 
 over, you probably wont miss them. The themes in the game feel appropriately adult, too, taking 
 a close look at things like relationships and freewill, and it very rarely feels heavy-handed or 
 preachy. Needless to say, this is definitely one of the most well written videogames, period.
 
  
  Dreamfall is technically a sequel to The Longest Journey, although the game doesnt necessarily 
 assume experience with that game. Instead, it will simply recall and recap events that occurred 
 in the first game occasionally, and it does a fantastic job of this; instead of dumping the whole 
 history on you in the beginning, it spreads it out and defines events as they become relevant, 
 and the whole thing feels very natural. Even those who played The Longest Journey will also probably 
 appreciate this, six years post-release.
  
  So, Dreamfall certainly presents one of the greatest adventure stories in a game; but how does 
 it play?
  
  The game is broken up into three different play styles: exploring environments and talking to other 
 characters; stealth action sequences that require you to do a bit of sneaking; and finally, combat, 
 where youll be duking it out with a small handful of enemies. By far the most prominent is the 
 exploration and conversation elements, taking up the vast majority of the game. Zo (and two other 
 playable characters, though itd be a spoiler to say whom) interacts with objects and characters 
 by walking up to them and using the left-mouse to select them. This brings up a radial menu with 
 circular pictures  typically a mouth, an eye, and a hand. These represent different actions you 
 can take; for example, if a mouth icon shows up, that means Zo can speak with that character. 
 Its a simple, mouse-driven interface that never feels clunky or impractical; everything youll 
 need is just a click or two away.
  
  You also have an interface, and this too uses picture icons to show possible actions for Zo. You 
 can choose to examine an item in the inventory for some basic information on it, try to combine 
 it with another item (for example, at one point youll need to combine a bed sheet and a hand towel 
 to form a makeshift rope with a thick end to tie to things) , or use the item on an object in the 
 gameworld you have selected (i. e. using a keycard on the door) . Again, its a simple, intuitive 
 system that always works wonderfully.
  
  Conversations in Dreamfall are mostly directed in a certain order, although a branching system 
 lets you easily gain additional information, whether to better your understanding of the plot or 
 to provide an enriched background on a character or event, just for your information. The conversations 
 have razor-sharp dialogue and spot-on voice acting; you certainly wont be just scanning over the 
 text in this game.
  
  There is the occasional stealth sequence in the game, and these are simple affairs that simply 
 command that you hold down a key to take a more crouched, defensive stance and get past a couple 
 lone guards or sidle up against a wall; things like that. You definitely dont need to be familiar 
 with other stealth action games to be successful here. At any rate, they provide an excellent means 
 to break up the storytelling, and theres something quite satisfying about sneaking past your foes.
 
  
  Combat is, unfortunately, an area where Dreamfall stumbles a bit. Although it maybe takes up about 
 fifteen minutes of the entire experience, the combat is clunky enough to stick out negatively in 
 your mind after getting through it. You have a light attack, a strong attack, and block, but the 
 hit detection is off, and the animations dont really line up in a satisfying way. The timing of 
 your blows is also a little wonky, and its difficult to chain together a sequence of attacks. 
 Youll probably just end up mashing on the heavy attack key and hoping for the best, which pretty 
 much always works. Luckily, the combat takes up an extremely small percentage of the game.
  
  Visually, Dreamfall looks pretty good, although its long development cycle is sometimes apparent. 
 On one hand, the games graphical style is terrific, with weird and fantastical environments hobnobbing 
 it with more realistic city locales. Both of these look great, with superb design and good texture 
 work. The characters have a unique and instantly charming look about them, though their clothes 
 can look a little ugly when viewed from up close, like certain angles in conversations. Their facial 
 expressions also seem a little flat, which is surprising, consider this is a game based on conversation 
 and character development. Nevertheless, its clean look is ultimately an appealing one.
  
  The sound is terrific, with all of the voice actors turning in terrific performances, as well as 
 some great sound effects and music, as well. The only real issue is that the music is a bit underused 
  using it to punch up more of the pivotal moments in the story would have cranked up the emotion 
 yet another step.
  
  Dreamfall ends with a lot of unanswered questions  hopefully, it doesnt take another six years 
 to get closure on this incredibly slick and well-produced game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall follows up on the previous game in the sequel, The Longest Journey very well. However 
 minor problems throughout the gameplay do cause some frustration and although I thought the ending 
 was well done, it is set up as to make room for a sequel; leaving holes in the story.
  
  The actual gameplay of Dreamfall is where the game lacks. However there are a few things done to 
 improve on issues found in games similar to Dreamfall.
  
  For one, item finding is not a huge issue. Everything that you can interact with is highlighted 
 with a large box. This makes it easier to spot out items that are of use. You dont have 
 to go on huge item hunting missions and collect 10 items to complete a task. There are a few areas 
 where it is difficult to spot a panel but for the majority of the time, you wont encounter 
 problems. For the most part, the gameplay in Dreamfall is rather simple, which I think is a plus 
 for the type of game.
  
  Also, you generally always know what to do. I never really ran into any problems trying to figure 
 out where to go or what to do, even when the task wasnt very clear at one point. Im 
 not sure how the game did this but I normally ended up having a general idea on what I was suppose 
 to do.
  
  Where the game falls short are in the other gameplay mechanics. One is the combat. Its completely 
 unnecessary and even if it were well executed it doesnt fit in the game. Its simple 
 and normally you simply use cheap techniques to beat other enemies. It also kind of scares away 
 non-gamers who might be interested in this game.
  
  The minigames and sneaking is also annoying. Although I enjoyed the picklock puzzle; the matchup 
 the symbols game was really annoying. It doesnt really require much thought, just how well 
 you can spot things and luck. The last two (matchup games) can cause some frustration and wasnt 
 needed at all. A few sneaking sections were also strange such as the first one, where you can sneak 
 anywhere around a robot except for one path.
  
  Other than those problems though, Dreamfall follows up on The Longest Journey very well. The story 
 is amazing and brings good memories back from the previous game (especially crow) . The characters 
 are amazing and the voice acting, for the most part is brilliant. The music and sound effects are 
 also very well done and overall the sound and the story is what makes this my favourite adventure 
 game since The Longest Journey (or maybe Syberia) . 
  
  The graphics are also pretty. There not next-gen but everything looks nice, especially the environments. 
 The character animations were odd at close-ups a few times but these were pretty minor. I also 
 really liked the artistic quality of the atmospheres in the game. Just by moving around in a certain 
 place, you would get a certain mood or feel to the environment. 
  
  I also ran into a few glitches in the game but they seem to be a common aspect in adventure games. 
 Nothing too major but worth noting. Aside from this and the unnecessary gameplay problems and elements, 
 Dreamfall is an amazing game. It should have just been an adventure game and not 
 an action-adventure game but that still doesnt take away from the amazing 
 story the game throws you in. People have complained about how the game is somewhat short or the 
 ending isnt that great but I thought the game was a descent length and the ending moderately 
 good. Dreamfall is all about the story and although there are a few things that get in the way 
 of it, its still one of the best adventure games that have come out this decade. If you 
 enjoyed The Longest Journey or any games like it, then you should enjoy Dreamfall: The Longest 
 Journey.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKOPY291
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Admittedly I never played the first one, but you don't really need to. This is an adventure game 
 in the quaintest of forms. You play as Zoe... most of the time... and most of the time she's in 
 her underpants which makes gameplay a bit distracting. Ignoring such things you quickly find that 
 there is a lot here to enjoy: great story, acting, and puzzles. You start to care about the characters 
 which to me is the essence of great story telling. I only had a few gripes mainly it was too short. 
 Just as you feel like the story is going to kick into gear and perhaps take on a new level of depth 
 it ends quite disappointingly. It was if the story tellers said to themselves "okay the worlds 
 are kind of safe but we don't know how to get the main character out of a situation... lets just 
 quickly end it and make it a cliffhanger... no one will hate that." I appreciate a good cliffhanger 
 heck Pirates of the Caribbean and Star Wars did them well... but this one just feels unpolished. 
 My final complaint would have to be one I might be all alone one and that is the graphics. Those 
 didn't feel finished to me and the view, as in most 3rd person adventures like KOTOR I & II, feel 
 overly confining. There comes a point when a view makes a person feel claustrophobic and these 
 type of games do this very well. Other then these two minor complaints this game delivers a solid 
 adventure a bit too short to be called the longest one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  Good stuff: This game has a very good story with both depth, mystery and a bit humour. It feels 
 well worked-out.
  The characters are believable and professional made. All this on it self kept the game intriguing.
 
  
  Bad stuff: As many before me has said. The difficulty of this game is poor. Didn't bring the level 
 of puzzle and mind riddles that characterize a good adventure game. Without those, what have you 
 got?
  
  My road of adventure games began in a time where the games where influenced by imagination, creativity, 
 passion and a little bit of madness.
  Games like Space Quest, Kings Quest, Loom, Larry Suite Larry, Zack McKracken, Monkey Island.
 
  Back then the bones that hold the game together was the story, characters and the amount of mystery. 
 The puzzle and the riddles were sometimes laughable hard and far-fetched but also brought the games 
 great charm.
  This is forever engraved in my mind and will always be the filter that tells me if I like an adventure 
 game or not.
  
  I would say that the story and the character is what kept me playing this game. Actually I wouldn't 
 call this a game, rather more an interactive story.
  There was no challenge for your brain what so ever. When you reached a "dead end" the answer was 
 right around the corner and the hints you got more or less told you exactly where to find it.
 
  It's not that I don't believe in coincidences (I have experienced some funny once) . But when they 
 happen over and over again it becomes annoying. I can't say other than that Funcom deliberately 
 must have made
  this game so easy. It becomes kind of obvious. But why? The story is not for kids but the idea 
 of the game is?
  Nice touch to bring some fighting into the game. It worked well.
  
  I haven't got much to say about the graphics. I'm sure other people do this better than me.
  
 What I will say is that [developers] sure have put all the effort to put a good story in the game 
 and forgot to go through the graphics. Zoe's pigtail looked like a tail of mink and the cape of 
 April Ryan did not obey the law of the physics. Looked crazy. 
  Some places also felt more worked through than others. Overall the graphics was OK but not prioritized. 
 But that is fine by me. If you have a great story I don't care so much if the graphics isn't spotless.
 
  
  The music, sound effects and the voices of the game was quite well. The character voices are a 
 sensitive thing. If they seem to be made by amateurs the character looses its credibility and you 
 become tired of listen to him/her. This can affect the overall felling of the story.
  Dreamfall has very good characters and the voices are a pleasure to listen to.
  
  The only 
 thing that kept me playing was the mystic in the story and to get to the unravelling end. To see 
 how every thread actually was wounded together.
  I get a bit irritated when the authors create a complex story with depth but then leave the resolution 
 to the viewers/players to find out for them self. (This is why I got bored of the X-Files and stopped 
 watching Lost) .
  Not to make this review a spoiler but I sure hope there will be a Dreamfall 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 1, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be pretty enjoyable although i think they could of made it much better. The 
 games story is very good and well told although it leaves alot of questions at the end.. The game 
 could more be called an movie game because there is alot of cutscenes which problary take up more 
 than half the game and there are occasional puzzles scattered throughout the game. Some people 
 may be bored by this type of game if they dont know what to expect. The game has some great music 
 in it and the voice acting is also really well done especially by the main characters. one thing 
 that bugged me is they should of made the character faces more detailed alot of them look pretty 
 bad except for zoe. THe main problem with the game is there isnt actually much gameplay in it with 
 very few puzzles and alot of the time ur spent just watching the characters talk although it is 
 still interesting. but think of it as a story game somethin like that.. I finished the game in 
 a few days but it did seem to drag out near the end but i would recommend this game to those that 
 like the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  The game that is made by the famous company and developer Funcom
  is really amazing and i can disrabe it like PERFECT. Dreamfall the longest journey is a typical 
 adventure quest and i give the game 10 score .One of the strongest parts of the game is its history. The 
 main hero is Zoe Castileo from Casablancaand the year is 2219. The future. Also you can play another 
 two characters-April Rayan and Kian. The amazing is that you can travell between three worlds-magic, sciense 
 and real world. The graphic is wonderfull. I can easily say that Dreamfall is one of the best games 
 in her style. I prefered the game to anybody who love to play quest .
  Play the game and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizzo2711
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  Overview
  
  After a very long waiting time, it has finally happened: the sequel to The Longest Journey is there! 
 Well, according to Funcom, the creators of both games, its not really a sequel and Id have to 
 agree with them. I must warn you that this review may contain some spoilers to The Longest Journey, 
 so if you havent played that game yet and you dont want to be spoiled, do not read any further!
 
  
  Unlike The Longest Journey (TLJ) , April Ryan isnt the protagonist of this game. We will meet her 
 and even control her, but the main character is Zo Castillo, who finds herself seeing things that 
 other cannot see. After deciding to help her ex-boyfriend with a story he is researching, Zo gets 
 sucked into conspiracies that she didnt know were even possible and although at first it seems 
 a coincidence that this all happens to Zo, apparently it is not. Will Zo be able to stop these 
 forces that are only interested in domination? You can only find out by playing the game. But be 
 warned: this is one of those games that will probably leave you behind with more questions than 
 that you started with at the beginning of the game. Even more so if you have played TLJ.
  
  
  The game
  
  The trouble that it often is with games like these, is that expectations are 
 too high, because of the awesome status its predecessor achieved. The creators of the game have 
 cleverly found a way around this issue, by not making a direct sequel to the game, but a continuation 
 of the universe around TLJ.
  
  Everyone who has played TLJ will remember that the game ended with April restoring the Balance 
 and thus saving both Stark, the world of science that we live in, but then in the future, and Arcadia, 
 the parallel world of magic. Nobody knew however, what happened to April after that. Did she return 
 to Stark to her friends? Or did she go to Arcadia, where there was still the threat of the invading 
 Tyren? Or did she go to another place all the same? Nobody knew. In Dreamfall, you will get the 
 answer to this question, as you run into April and even control her at several points in the game. 
 I wont tell you what has happened to her, youll have to find that out for yourself, but suffice 
 it to say that she is no longer the April that we knew from TLJ. April has grown more bitter and 
 disillusioned.
  
  As I said, the game is not so much a sequel as it is a continuation of the universe and the story 
 of the persons in that universe. Many new faces, but also many familiar faces. That is, if youve 
 played TLJ. And although I agree with Funcom that Dreamfall is playable without having played TLJ, 
 you really miss out on a lot. Theres nothing like the experience of walking through familiar locations 
 in Arcadia which are now fully in 3D. Also, the story is more difficult to understand.
  
  But what exactly do I mean with not a sequel? Without giving too much away, it comes down to 
 this. Apparently, there is nothing wrong with the Balance this time so the Balance does not need 
 to be saved the way it had to be saved in TLJ, but suffice it to say that things are very wrong 
 in both worlds. Are those things connected? Who knows, but it seems that once more, fate is in 
 your hands as you take on the role of three different characters, of which Zo Castillo takes on 
 the biggest role. Shes at a turning point in her life, not really knowing what to do, while living 
 with her father in a future set Casablanca. Zo has lost direction and dedication and she will 
 find that those two things are very important things to have. The other characters are Kian, an 
 apostle and assassin who brings swift death to the unbelievers and April Ryan, of whom I wont 
 tell anything more, because that would ruin much of the story for you.
  
  The game is not nearly as much an adventure as its predecessor and thats not just because the 
 controls are different and that the game is in 3D. The biggest change is that in this game you 
 can (and probably will, more than once) die. This is because of several combat scenes that are 
 in the game, although Id have to say that those are not very hard and apart from three or four 
 of those, they can all be avoided.
  
  The other thing in which you can really die are the sneaking and running parts. Thats right: theres 
 both of them in Dreamfall and it got me killed on several occasions. Some of the sneaking parts 
 can be really, REALLY frustrating, especially if youre not good at them (like me) . As for the 
 running parts, I can only clearly remember one, but that one also took me several tries before 
 I got it. Im just mentioning it so that you are warned.
  
  Apart from these gameplay aspects, there are classical adventure puzzles in it, like combining 
 objects, solving puzzles and bringing objects from one person/location to another. There are however, 
 far less of these parts in the game than there were in TLJ.
  
  The main part of the game however, is filled by talking. Never forget that Dreamfall is actually 
 a story that is told and that the story is the main part of the game (and boy, what a story it 
 is!) . I can therefore sympathize with people who say that there isnt that much actual gameplay 
 in the game, because you cannot really count the talking and in-game sequences (of which there 
 are a lot too) as actual gameplay. I can sympathize with them, but I dont feel that way. I just 
 felt like WOW! after finishing the game and regretting in more than one way that the game was 
 finished.
  
  
  The controls 
  
  There are several ways in which you can control the characters and the camera in the game. You 
 can use a controller, use the mouse, or use mouse and keyboard together. I played the game using 
 both mouse and keyboard and that worked well on overall. With the mouse you can choose the angle 
 of the camera and steer your character, while with the keyboard you can move your character. When 
 you approach an object/character with which you can interact, a square will appear around it. With 
 the left mouse button you can then interact with it. If only one interaction is possible (for example: 
 look at the object) , this interaction will automatically occur. If more interactions are possible, 
 a tiny menu will pop up, in which you can choose the interaction that you want. However, there 
 is also another way in which you can interact with objects/characters.
  
  A new feature that is introduced in Dreamfall is the use of the focus field. In general, this is 
 a feature that can help you find objects to interact with. The field is activated with the right 
 mouse button and will appear as a vertical line in front of your character. As you turn the field 
 around, so will your character and as soon as an object/character crosses this line, again a square 
 will appear around it. Once again a click with the left mouse button will initialize an interaction.
 
  
  Not only is the use of this focus field an easy way to search for usable objects which you could 
 easily miss otherwise, it also adds to the game because interactions may be different from when 
 you would stand close to the object/character. For example, when you aim the focus field on a character 
 which is standing about 20 feet away, you cannot talk to that character; you need to get closer. 
 But when you are standing at the right place (not too close and not too far) you can sometimes 
 eavesdrop on certain conversations!
  
  However, in combat situations controls are different. The camera will automatically focus on your 
 opponent (and thus face your character towards your opponent) , which can be a bit frustrating at 
 some times, because you cant see your surroundings that well which could mean that you might get 
 yourself stuck. If you think that this could hinder your escape when fleeing from a fight, dont 
 worry because you cannot run from fights. When an opponent gets close enough and the combat mode 
 is initiated, you cannot escape from the fight. The controls in the fight are simple: you use the 
 keyboard to move your character and the space bar to block an attack from your opponent. Blocking 
 may not always work however, because your opponent can do a light attack, or a heavy attack. The 
 latter one is slower, but you cannot block it. You can dodge it however, by moving your character. 
 As for the attacks, your character too can do light and heavy attacks. Light attacks are done with 
 the left mouse button, heavy attacks with the right mouse button. In combination with moving your 
 character and making an attack, attacks may vary from hitting to kicking.
  
  These fighting controls are far from optimal, but luckily fights arent that hard (there are some 
 fights that you cannot win, but you will find that out when you get there) . Still, I cant see 
 the reason why the fights should be in the game as a part which you have to play. Yes, some of 
 the fights add to the story, but why they couldnt be an in-game sequence or something similar 
 eludes me.
  
  
  The graphics
  
  Graphics are great. They arent state-of-the-art graphics like in the newest 3D first person shooters, 
 but hey: the game isnt a 3D first person shooter. The good thing is that because of this, you 
 dont need the most expensive graphics card around, although for an adventure game the requirements 
 will be higher than youll probably be used to.
  
  Everything is in 3D. Characters, surroundings, objects, everything. Well, everything except some 
 of the backgrounds. An example is when you walk from one area to another. You have to walk up to 
 a certain trigger point to change locations. Sometimes you can already see something of that location 
 (for example, when you walk through a porch) which is in 2D then. But if you are going to make 
 a fuss about those kind of things, than you shouldnt play adventure games.
  
  One of the things that I really liked about the graphics is that, although they went from 2D in 
 TLJ to 3D in Dreamfall, the overall impression of the surroundings remains the same. When walking 
 around in Arcadia again in Dreamfall I immediately felt a sense of familiarity: I was back. And 
 even though I said that there are games out there with better graphics, I do not know of adventure 
 games with better graphics. Yet, that is.
  
  However, there have been made some remarks by people that at times characters (especially some 
 of the main characters) appear to be a bit emotionless; they lack expression sometimes, which doesnt 
 help the character development. I found this a bit of an exaggeration. There are moments that you 
 can say that a bit more emotion could be expressed, but emotionless is too big a word. And sometimes 
 I got the feeling that it wasnt so much the failure of the game developers to add emotion to a 
 key character at some points, as it was more the personality of the character which made for the 
 lack of certain expressions.
  
  So on overall, the graphics are really good, great even. The best Ive seen so far in an adventure 
 game I would say.
  
  
  The sound
  
  Aahh, the music. I loved it, I really did. There are two kinds of music in the game. The instrumental 
 music in the style we know from TLJ, which I loved then and I still love it now, because it adds 
 so much to the atmosphere of the game.
  
  And then there is the other type of music, which is made up of sound tracks. This is just something 
 you love or not. I think it depends a lot on the fact whether you like the style of the music or 
 not and I did like it. In my opinion, it makes that much more of the game. It elevates it from 
 a game to an interactive movie/game. And whether you like the music or not, the music is integrated 
 really well, although there are some points in which the sound tracks are rather short and cut 
 off quite suddenly, which is a shame.
  But of course there is more sound than just the music. What about the voices? Once again, voices 
 are great. April is done by Sarah Hamilton again (apparently, because I still dont have the English 
 version of TLJ) and it is done very well. In fact, in my opinion, almost all voices are done very 
 well. It might take some getting used to the English accent from Zo, but I liked it. The only 
 voice I felt was lacking somewhat sometimes in expression, was that of Kian. On overall it was 
 really good too, but at certain points I just felt like the guy who did his voice was simply reading 
 the words on the paper in front of him, rather than putting some feelings in the voice. Luckily, 
 these moments were scarce.
  
  As for sound effects, theres not much to say about them, apart from that they are very well done 
 as well. Which is necessary too, because at some point in the game, there is a puzzle involving 
 sound. That puzzle might be one of those moments were you get a bit frustrated, but when you figure 
 it out, it isnt that hard.
  
  I would say that the sound is definitely one of the strongest points of the game. I have said it 
 often and I will probably say it often in the future, but good music and good voices are so important 
 for an adventure game. Dreamfall passes this test with an A+.
  
  
  Overall
  
  Not that much actual gameplay, but a great story, great graphics, a great story, great music, a 
 great story and a great setting. Did I mention that the story was great already?
  
  Okay, lets be honest: I thought it was a great story, but if youre not into fantasy and hate 
 ending up with a lot of questions: dont play the game. If you love your good old mysteries and 
 love to speculate (and this game WILL give you a lot to speculate about) , then chances are that 
 youll really like the game. And of course if you liked TLJ and want to know what happened to April 
 at the end of that game, youll get some answers (but not nearly all!) in Dreamfall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  A truly superb adventure game and definitely in the top 10 games i've ever played (and i've played 
 my fair share) .
  
  I don't know how to begin reviewing this game really, sure I could talk about the graphics and 
 sound, which are excellent, or the mechanics of the game play but the whole game experience is 
 much more than that.
  
  What to compare Dreamfall to? there is only one adventure game in the same league as it and that's 
 the original Longest Journey. The longest journey is perhaps a little more imaginative, more original 
 of course but these are some of TLJs strengths and do not constitute weaknesses in Dreamfall.
 
  
  DreamFall Is different to TLJ, the most noticeable changes are a definite shift away from puzzles, 
 the puzzles are still there but we're not talking myst, they're all simple and would take even 
 a n00b to adventure games little more than 10 minutes a piece where as TLJ, although not *Hard* 
 could have you pondering, even to the point of frustration in a couple of places. I think this 
 is a good move, it keeps up the flow of the game and the plot and completely avoids dead-end frustration 
 that you get in so many adventure games (A legacy of Myst) , although they take it perhaps a bit 
 too far, a little more challenge would have been welcome.
  There is a much more pronounced action element to Dreamfall also, you get involved in fights occasionally 
 but this works well to draw you into the experience of the game.
  
  Its difficult to review a game like Dreamfall without dissecting the plot because the game is the 
 plot. Hmm, the best way I can describe the game is to say that its an involving, gripping, beautiful, 
 interactive movie. Think of the best movie you've seen, then think of that movie being about 10 
 Hours long and you interactively playing all the lead characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amrooosh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  The Good: An incredibly provocative sci-fi story filled with many memorable characters; beautiful 
 presentation, featuring fantastic voice acting and musical score; dialogue prompts you to make 
 some tough, interesting decisions. 
  The Bad: As rich as it is, the story leaves you wanting much more; simplistic combat, not much 
 challenge. 
  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is, first and foremost, a great work of science fiction. Such a 
 complex plot, endearing characters, and imaginative settings and situations are highly uncommon 
 to gaming, or any medium for that matter. Those familiar with the game's predecessor might expect 
 no less, since it's widely considered one of the best adventure games ever made. Judged as a follow-up 
 to a beloved classic, Dreamfall does not disappoint, for the most part. It exhibits the unique 
 attention to detail and terrific presentation that made The Longest Journey so remarkable for its 
 time. But Dreamfall also does an excellent job drawing in new players as well as those fans patiently 
 awaiting this sequel. The actual gameplay is a blend of action adventure conventions, but it clearly 
 isn't the main draw. It's there to help make the story more engaging, and that's more or less what 
 it does. Yet, as impressive as the story is, it ends too quickly to leave you feeling fully satisfied 
 when you finally reach the game's bewildering, enlightening, frustrating, thought-provoking conclusion. 
 Is the journey itself worth your while, though? Absolutely, yes. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aweus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 23, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  That was a long wait. I still remember playing The Longest Journey back the time when it was released. 
 In 2000 it was one of the best games of its genre, so I had quite big expectations regarding to 
 Dreamfall. Fortunately I was not disappointed. Funcom again made my day.
  
  Classic adventure games was always one one of my favorite genre (if not THE favorite) . I'm not 
 being spoiled in recent years. Once very popular type of games is now sustained alive only by few 
 good titles during a year and only 2 or maybe 3 of them beeing honestly at highest level of quality. 
 And Dreamfall is by all means among them. There is not much to say about technical aspects of this 
 game. It seems quite solid and adequate to modern standards. So Dreamfall will not make your jaws 
 drop by how it looks or force you to listen the OST for countless hours. However it still looks 
 good and I can't find any things to complain about under this department.
  
  But what makes or breaks each adventure game, is the storyline. And this is where Dreamfall works. 
 And works perfectly. Ragnar Tornquist really thought this all out. Giving any examples around here 
 would surely trigger a huge spoilers so better stay away from that. However expect some nice plot 
 twists and lots of interesting discoveries during your journey. Story is nicely splited among three 
 major characters (Zoe, April and Kian) and it is really hard to not care about their fate. I also 
 think that Dreamfall succeeded in creating the unique magical atmosphere of Stark and Arkadia (and 
 beyond) - a thing which was one of the strong advantages of the original game. I have to admit 
 that a rather depressing mood of the whole story was hard for me to accept. However I assume that 
 ending of Dreamfall (tons of unanswered questions) is just a setup for third (and perhaps final) 
 part of the series. If this anticipated game will be released and will make some logical and satisfying 
 solutions, TLJ series will be a strong pretender to the best adventure game series (in classic 
 style) of the past decade. Funcom really don't have much choices now. Not releasing sequel to Dreamfall 
 would be like butchering the Dreamfall's storyline. I spent time playing this game (and it was 
 time spent with great pleasure) only to want more. I'm now counting on Ragnar and his team to complete 
 the saga with same style to the one they used to get to current point. I would love to cover some 
 more issues of storyline, but as I mentioned earlier, that would start the flood of spoilers. So 
 in any case - for all the adventure games fans - Dreamfall is a position you can't miss. Great 
 game and good job done by Funcom!
  
  PS. As a side note - I think that playing the first Longest Journey game before trying Dreamfall 
 is obligatory. You will just miss huge amount of story if you will try DF before finishing TLJ.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moozeditty
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I don't have much to say other than I really enjoyed this game. The introduction seemed a bit shabby 
 at first (stiff animation, minimally animated secondary characters) but after the first mini-level 
 things got a lot more interesting both visually and narratively. In many ways the graphics technology 
 seemed a few months behind its peers, but you quickly forgive the lack of normal mapping and HDMI 
 lighting when the art direction is some of the strongest you'll find in any game. The characters 
 are charming with even the background NPCs brimming with personality (particularly in Arcadia) . 
 The environments are detailed and inviting and you'll wish you could visit them. Though the game 
 offers much to explore and is not very short, I still wish it had been longer with even more places 
 to visit, but then the Longest Journey spoiled me in that respect. I guess that with three main 
 characters you expect it to be three times as long and involved, but in reality your time is divided 
 between the three. I sincerely hope FunCom gets to finish what they have started in The Longest 
 Journey and have expanded upon in Dreamfall. Games like this make the gaming industry more worthwhile. 
 I enjoy mindless shooters and vacuous glitz as much as the next person, but Dreamfall is a reminder 
 of all the other wonderful things games can be. 
  
  I subtracted two points from the gameplay because I found the fighting unneccessary and some of 
 the controls were too console-oriented. I gave everything else a ten because the graphics, sound, 
 music, and value were all fantastic and I want to help improve the game's overall reviewer score. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watashinicksan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Having never played the Longest Journey, I didn't know what to expect from Dreamfall, but due to 
 the amount of praise TLJ got I decided to play this game. For starters this game has one of the 
 most well-written stories for any videogame, characters you actually grow attached to, and for 
 this reason I was kept glued to my seat. The game is divided into several chapters where you will 
 take control of one of the three main characters, whose fates will intertwine at the close of the 
 game. Although April and Zoe were well developed I felt that the third character, Kian, was somewhat 
 unnecessary as you hardly play as him and when you do it is just the same parts of the other characters 
 shown from the enemy's perspective.
  Though the game isn't very long, you will want to keep playing to find out what happens to these 
 characters.
  The majority of the game is puzzle solving, but very few of the puzzles are inventory based, and 
 I was a bit disappointed because of this. Most of your items are simply removed as you progress 
 because they are no longer required. The puzzles were a little too easy, with the exception of 
 a few, and some require you to run back and forth several times which got to be annoying. Most 
 of the puzzles involve a sort of matching game were the pieces you are trying to match move around, 
 and you have a limited time to complete them, or you must try again. The other main puzzle is three 
 rotating circles where again you must play a matching game by aligning the correct symbols. I didn't 
 find anything wrong with these, I just preferred the inventory style puzzles compared to the myst 
 style ones.
  Now, puzzles make sense in the context of an adventure game, but for some odd reason, probably 
 to gain more players, the developers included a simplified combat system. Simplified is an understatement, 
 as you will simply slash and block in some extremely easy fights. You can die in these fights; 
 but there's no need to worry about whether or not you saved because the game will autosave your 
 progress and take you back before you died, which is definitely a plus. However, the most annoying 
 thing about the combat was that as soon as an enemy approaches, your character enters a combat 
 animation that no matter how far from the enemy you are, you cannot get out of that animation. 
 So essentially you cannot run away. It seems as if they just threw in the combat at the last minute. 
 But enough about gameplay, or lack thereof. Let's talk aesthetics.
  Though there were complaints about this game looking too console-ish due to the fact that it was 
 originally designed for Xbox, these claims are unwarranted. The graphics are simply incredible, 
 on the highest settings of course. The character models, though detailed, could have used some 
 work. Other than that the graphics were great.
  The soundtrack is simply wonderful, rivaling the best Hollywood soundtracks. It really gets you 
 in the mood the narrative sets. Sound effects are equally as good; you'll hear flowing water where 
 there's a river, chattering when you're in a marketplace. But the best part of the game's sound 
 is the voice acting. This is some of the best voice acting you'll hear in any game, peroid. There's 
 a variety of accents, all of which give real personality to the characters. 
  Overall, this is one of the best adventure games to come out lately, and if you can appreciate 
 a well-written story and are willing to forgive some of the gameplay faults, you have an excellent 
 game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nirkon
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  This game is a great adventure game, the characters are very well built, and if you've played the 
 first game you'll have an even greater understanding of this one, but its not required, the plot 
 has quite a few twists, twists that should have been cleared up by the end of the game, but weran't, 
 either the game creators simply wanted the players to leave with questions, or its a build up for 
 a 3rd game in the series. In my opinion its really worth the time you put into it, but for people 
 who don't like to be on cliffhangers, are better off to wait until the 3rd game is out and then 
 play both one after another 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suharar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This is more of an interactive story than a fully fledged role playing game, you just simply follow 
 the story as it unfolds with some simple puzzles on the way, i admit i did get stuck a few times 
 but that was more to do with the mechanics of the game rather than the actual puzzle.
  The graphics are very nice and run quite nicely even on a lowish pc spec, the game is set in the 
 near future with our heroine Zoe living with her father in a nice middle class area, the story 
 starts with her receiving strange messages from televisions from a ghostly girl asking zoe for 
 help and with the disapearance of her ex boyfriend reza ( a reporter ) .
  Her father has to go away to India for a business trip for awhile, and Zoe with nothing to do sets 
 off to find Reza and on the way uncovers the mystery of the ghostly girl.
  I never played the first game The longest Journey but that didnt stop me from enjoying the game 
 and following the storyline.
  the best thing about the game is the story, and once its over which isnt too long theres little 
 reason to go back to the game, however i do recommend this game if you want to get lost in a good 
 story for awhile.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHELeo819
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Zoe is absolutely lovely, an even more likable character than April (in both games) . The 
 environments look great. The world is very rich and her motivation (finding Reza) is really strong, 
 taking her believably through the game (relationships and characters in general were even stronger 
 this time around.) Stark is incredibly rich, taking LJ's brilliant little nuggets of cynicism with 
 regard to a highly corporate future and developing them into a deliciously sinister plot thread.
 
  
  Cons: Why even bother with Arcadia, or the other playable characters? They're very interesting 
 philosophically, but in combination with the overall weakness of the tasks (i. e. what makes an 
 adventure game an adventure game; as gamespot says, just a lot of fetch) and the game's frustrating 
 ambiguity of motive and circumstance, they seem to serve little direct purpose. Arcadia's role 
 in the central crisis, and why Zoe goes there at all, are confused/obscure. 
  
  Additionally, there is an acenine and utterly pointless combat system. After replaying the first 
 game, I realized just how very dark, cynical, and actually psychologically gruesome the second 
 one is, which is a matter of taste, but ultimately I missed some of the amiable lightheartedness 
 of the first.
  
  And the biggest con of all is that the game is cut so short, having raised hundreds of questions 
 and allusions and answered almost none.
  
  My recommendation to LJ fans is that they wait until the next sequel comes out (which I can only 
 hope is the reason for the ridiculous ending) , then play this one through with the next one handy 
 to start up right away. It's a good game, gets you invested quite successfully, but you'll want 
 answers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msroji
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  the game is more than great in so many ways, wether you mean the intensive story, graphics, the 
 amazing mixture of whats modern and what orient (specially in Casablanca) , and the rich enviroments.
 
  still there is some things that (funcom) should have inhanced or avoided in the game, such as 
 the funny fightingh system, or having 3 main charachters, because although you have the 3 chracters 
 interact with world, and evolve with the plot of the story, it is (zoe) who is the most appearing 
 and evolving character, and eventually at the end of the adventure (game) it was HER mession to 
 save the (day) and the two worlds and the balaance between them. and speaking of the game-end it 
 was realy very annoying and upsetting, because inspite of all efforts you've done to save the world 
 the bad guys were the winners.
  something else, the enviromeents were rich and great, but still the game play does not let you 
 go deep within those inviroments, the game was a bit too linear.
  still the end is stronggly suggesting that there will be sequal to the game and that should become 
 a releif, right???
  
  above, the all it was one hell of an adventure, and I hope that the suggested sequal to come soon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rendarian
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Travel back a around six years to the release of The Longest Journey and you'll remember an adventure 
 game that was such a wonderful breath of fresh air. The genre had significantly stagnated since 
 the likes of Sierra, Lucasarts, and the other great adventure houses all shifted focus to the FPS 
 and other big money makers. Adventure fans were left to put up with pathetic offerings from the 
 like of The Adventure Company which churned out crappy Myst clones one after another. TLJ, however, 
 did a lot to resurrect interest in the genre. Some people have gone so far as to say TLJ pushed 
 adventure back into the mainstream but I wouldn't go that far. This result was from a combination 
 of stellar adventure games from various European development houses such as FunCom, and Microids.
 
  
  Thus Dreamfall certainly had a very high bar to live up to. Its predecessor was an amazing game 
 and there have been more recent adventure games, such as Indigo Prophecy, which have been pushing 
 the envelope further and further. Even Beyond Good and Evil did a lot to change just what an adventure 
 game should be expected to do. Could Dreamfall ever hope to live up to the standards that were 
 set before it?
  
  Well, I certainly wasn't disappointed. Dreamfall presents an absolutely stunning package grounded 
 by an incredibly rich world with characters that you can believe are real, a story that's very 
 intriguing, and one that will keep you entertained for hours. 
  
  I find myself wondering just where to start this review. Perhaps the best part of the game is the 
 story which I won't elaborate on too much but just talk about in general terms. Over the course 
 of playing you will control three main characters which means that there are three basic plot lines 
 that occur in the two worlds of the game: Stark and Arcadia. However, the plot goes much deeper 
 with twists and turns and weavings that overlap every theme over one another. As the game comes 
 to and end they start to come together and the player begins to understand just what is going on.
 
  
  A nifty feature is that within dialogue progressions you are sometimes presented with options. 
 These usually have the same end result but it's interesting to see the various options.
  
  However, at the same time the plot is the huge downfall of Dreamfall. The ending of the game is 
 absurdly quick. Nothing is resolved and the player is left wondering just what the heck is going 
 on. I understand that TLJ 3 is planned, but nonetheless some kind of closure for each 'book' is 
 required. Each of The Lord of the Rings novels is a definite package that leaves the reader fulfilled 
 at the end of one book but with just enough openings left for the next chapter.
  
  Moving on, the characters are also amazing. This is by far some of the best voice acting I have 
 every heard in a game and should definitely be applauded. Some characters curse and swear a bit, 
 but it's all natural. Language isn't thrown around just for the heck of it but always fits the 
 character and the situation. Character design is also done very well and I feel that one of my 
 favourites is Reza who FunCom did a great job at presenting.
  
  The surroundings that the characters are put in are also amazing. I'm really torn between the beauty 
 that could be achieved with 2D adventure games and the freedom that is being seen with 3D games. 
 Dreamfall does a great job at showing how 3D adventures can be just as beautiful and immersive. 
 I hope that the trend will continue in this direction and offer some truly beautiful vistas that 
 were the hallmark of games such as Riven and TLJ. Adventure games simply do not generate the funds 
 required to create an engine on the level of HL2, Doom 3, Far Cry, etc so don't expect any revolutionary 
 graphics.
  
  One significant downfall is the mass amount of loading points that are in the environment. The 
 loading screen is well done and doesn't cut music out or anything but they can still be annoying 
 due to volume.
  
  And now we come to sound. As I already mentioned, the voice acting is stellar but also stellar 
 is the music throughout the game. It blends into the background so well and always matches the 
 mood and situation that the player finds themselves in. The music also always does a nice fade 
 out when scenes are forwarded or skipped or when a loading screen comes up. It's these little details 
 that make it all the better.
  
  Game control is also very easy and intuitive. Essentially you walk around and point and click to 
 operate various objects in the world. Puzzle lovers be warned, this is not a puzzle-adventure game 
 so don't expect any skull cracking moments. The game is pure story and getting through the plot. 
 You have a inventory which isn't used too much in the game and the puzzles that do exist are very 
 simple.
  
  Some 'fights' happen in the game, but these are again simple. They consist of the player hitting 
 the l and k keys until the opponent falls to the ground. No biggie and none are particularly difficult 
 once you get the hang of the controls.
  
  Still, the strongest point of Dreamfall is the story which contains so many strong elements that 
 deal with basic human nature. Sacrifice, faith, life journeys, self-sacrifice, discover, etc. This 
 game will surely not disappoint any who can appreciate a good solid tale. I strongly urge anyone 
 who enjoys adventure games to pick Dreamfall up and immerse themselves in the environment. Turn 
 the lights off, crack the speakers, and enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deukalion-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  First off I have to say how much I enjoyed the first game. Such a tale would be hard to reprise 
 once again - altough I waited for this game since I heard about it.
  
  Once bad thing that needs to be said quickly, this is not "A long story" anymore. Sure it's a story, 
 but it's not long. The first four-five chapters are very good but then it turns into some kind 
 of Hollywood-movie kind of thing where all you do is walking to the next point (with no actions, 
 intresting things on the way) and you'll watch a 5-20 minutes sequence. 
  
  The puzzles in this game is also very very easy; a big difference from the original. Once again 
 the puzzles are some small hops just to watch that sequence again.
  
  The thing that makes this game a big letdown is that part. It's not really a game. It's just a 
 story that isn't even long. Although you might as well play it if you've played the first one.
 
  
  Sounds and twists are the best ingredient of this game. No doubt. And grapichs are all in all standard 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I am quite a fan of the adventure and RPG genres and I put a great deal of emphasis on the story 
 and detail put into a game. I like a great game that is told well even without flashy graphics 
 and a big bag of tricks. This game doesn't have either of those and unfortunately, the story and 
 gameplay don't make up for it.
  
  There are not many out there, but this adventure game is a fully 3D realtime rendered game. The 
 original TLJ used relatively static scenes that your character moved through. In DF, the game takes 
 a third-person view of your character who can freely wander through the setting.
  
  While it's certainly nice for adventure games to enter a more immersive environment, there's nothing 
 particularly special about DF. The graphics are fine and that's about the best I can say about 
 them. There's nothing exciting about them but they aren't disappointing eitherl; they get the job 
 done.
  
  The controls work mostly like a first person shooter with the exception that moving the mouse rotates 
 the camera to predefined angles instead of allowing for complete control of the camera. For example, 
 in some scenes, if you move the mouse just slightly, the point of view may rotate an entire 90 
 degrees (usually, you get smaller increments) . You cannot rotate the view to anything in between. 
 It takes a bit of getting used to but after a while, it does begin to feel natural. I can't help 
 but wonder why the game was designed this way however. There are so many games out there that implement 
 a first or third person view so well, that I find it annoying for game companies to try and get 
 cute and "innovative" by trying something that is different but ultimately inferior.
  
  But down to the heart of the game. What I believe makes an adventure game good is the challenge 
 of working your way through the story. All adventure games have some degree of puzzling, wondering 
 and thinking about how to accomplish X or get from A to B. Unfortunately, the level of this in 
 DF is almost zero. There are no puzzles of any difficulty in the game. There is no challenge and 
 no thinking required at all. It's almost always immediately clear exactly what you have to do. 
 Go to A, get item B, return to A, use item B on item C.
  
  In the end, DF is hardly a game at all. It's more like watching a movie with a little manual intervention 
 (walking from A to B) between scenes. Its predecessor was similar in character, but the parts in 
 between the scenes were interesting and challenging and made being a part of the movie worth it. 
 To make matters worse, much of the storytelling in DF is boring, unimportant and pointless. I don't 
 mind lots of dialog but not when a lot of it boils down to annoying minutiae of the characters' 
 lives, I'll pass.
  
  To add further insult to injury, the actual story of the game, while bringing with it a great sense 
 of importance and suspense, leaves you feeling disappointed. Throughout the game, a lot of things 
 happen for which there is no resolution or explanation and by the time you do get through the end, 
 you can't help but wonder why you had to go through the entire game when it seemed to not contribute 
 to what resolution you do get. The game ends on a cliffhanger with a sequel clearly intended. Let's 
 just hope that if there is a sequel, the two games don't end up like the last two Matrix movies.
 
  
  I only recommend this game to those who are big fans of the genre, enjoyed the previous game and 
 who have a good deal of patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axe_336
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I played this game on the Xbox, so if it shows up on the PC's review list, sorry aobut that. Anyway, 
 this was a really enjoyable game. The opening is rather enigmatic, and the introduction of the 
 main character, Zoe, is also puzzling at first. Actually, the whole game is puzzling, but thats 
 fine since it just adds to the game. The very most basic plotline is that Zoe starts out as the 
 average college girl who has lost purpose in life and slowly gets involved in an inter-dimensional 
 conspiracy of unknown proportions.
  
  So, why should you get this game?:
  
  -Primarily because it has a great story to it. Admittedly it will leave you hanging... But buy 
 it so they'll make another!
  
  -The visual are, in my opinion, about a step up from KotOR 2's graphics, but with some suprisingly 
 good reflections (Like light reflecting off of wet surfaces and through some windows) . Also the 
 capes are done really well in my opinion... Yeah, the capes!
  
  -The voice work is outstanding. I think the Gamespot video review advised turning the subtitles 
 off and just watching it like a movie? Yeah, do that. Also, in the conversation sequences you'll 
 get choices on how you want a character to reply. I don't think it affects how the story unfolds, 
 but it can setup different conversations I think.
  
  -The Dark People are really cool.... Well they are.
  
  -Its also a rather amusing game, as 
 is somewhat of a staple of the Adventure genre.
  
  Why wouldn't you want this game?:
  
  -If you only like high-pace action games then you shouldn't get this game... Well, you should, 
 but you might not like it.
  
  -While the visuals are quite good on the main characters and anyone you have to interact with, 
 they clearly didn't put as much effort into the townspeople who just walk around. Also, polygons 
 have a tendancy to pass through each other or seperate at the joints on people. Sometimes it works, 
 like if the other persons flesh or clothing actually moved under the pressure then it would make 
 sense, but sometimes it just looks weird. Thats probably what I mainly take points off for with 
 this game.
  
  -Oh, and don't expect the fight scenes they do have to be that great. If you've ever played an 
 Adventure game before, then you should know that fights aren't their strong suit. Generally it 
 consists of two kinds of fights: 1. Fights you are meant to win. 2. Fights you are meant to avoid. 
 You can generally win the first type with a careful combination of Strong attacks and blocking. 
 The second kind you just run from. You'll usually die once or twice before you figure out where 
 to go to avoid it.
  
  So thats my review of Dreamfall: The Longest Journey. Oh, and if you're worrying whether you need 
 to play "The Longest Journey" before hand, you really don't. You'll understand one of the characters 
 better, but the overall storyline doesn't require it. You might want to after you play it, but 
 you certainly don't need to.
  
  ...... So go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_davidovitch
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I do not normally bother writing user reviews for games. What's the point, right? i mean, let's 
 face it: you know the same as i do what you like and most likely what you're going to like for 
 the next year's worth of upcoming releases.
  Well, Dreamfall: The Longest Journey was one that was completely under my radar. I had never played 
 The Longest Journey, in fact i honestly had never heard of it. I took a completely blind chance 
 on this game, based on the fact that it had a scifi/fantasy setting and, well, the screenshots 
 on the back looked cool. And cool it was.
  The format of this game is one that is not immediately appealing to me: lots and lots and more 
 lots of cutscenes and cinematics, sprinkled with a few puzzles and some very guided (as in led 
 by the nose) exploration. I normally prefer the open ended rpg-ing of an elder scrolls game, or 
 the action of a good fps or even a tomb raider-style action/adventure. This game contains hardly 
 any (if at all) of those elements.
  What this game has instead is an intensely involved, engaging, creative, and moving storyline. 
 This has to be one of the best-executed plotlines i have ever encountered in a video game. I felt 
 most of the time as if i was watching a wim wenders movie, and completely forgot that i was playing 
 a game. In fact, I can recall several instances of being disappointed that i had the helm again. 
 And this is coming from a guy who hated FFVIII for having too many cutscenes.
  There are, of course, parts of the game that just don't work ---like the completely useless combat ---but 
 it is not worth getting into a laundry list of its faults. Somehow, Dreamfall is just above that 
 sort of critique. The characters and story are so immersive, and the story and its developments 
 end in such a maddeningly great way (which WILL drive you at least temporarily insane) , that I 
 cannot help but say that this is one of the best games that I've played on the XBOX. Now, if you'll 
 excuse me, I've got to go run and find a copy of The longest Journey for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alzikar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This was an unbelievably good game in nearly every aspect. The graphics and scenery are surrealistic, 
 awe-inspiring and just something you'd have to see for yourself to fully appreciate. The sound 
 quality and voice acting is Hollywood production standards. The story is so well-written that it's 
 easy to become attached to the protagonist and desire to see her succeed against the overwhelming 
 odds stacked against her. I felt like I was playing a modern-day rendition of Homer's Odyssey. 
 Naturally, if you enjoy games that involve action and lots of it, this game is not going to appeal 
 to you, but If you're the type of player that goes through games several times just to make sure 
 you've gleamed everything you can from their story; Dreamfall is a treasure trove of goodness for 
 your mind. There are so many hidden secrets about the worlds to uncover and so many plot twists 
 that even long after completing the game you're still wondering just who was the bad guy and if 
 the good guys were really good.
  
  It's like a grand conspiracy plot of Warren Specter's Dues Ex, without the weapons, cybernetics, 
 and the gun-fighting. Toss in a parallel-universe, a protagonist which is so believable and real 
 she might as well be your sister, a complex plot which threatens to suffocate the heroine and you 
 along with her, and you'll find yourself sitting on the edge of your seat toward the end of the 
 game wondering how in the world is she ever going to get out of this mess. For a non-action game, 
 the tension at the end is so thick you could cut it with a knife. This game plays like a movie, 
 the likes of which you would expect to see a famous suspense-thriller actor such as Morgan Freeman 
 acting in. It's not a movie... it's better by far, because you get to play the main character and 
 can move about in the worlds as you wish. In this respect, you could call it the best suspense-thriller 
 movie you've ever seen and instead of a game, call it an interactive movie.
  
  The main character, Zoe, is female and there are so many details in the game that draws the player 
 into her mindset and helps the player understand her personality, her likes, dislikes, concerns 
 and none of what she says thinks or feels is cliche. For example, from the story, the player learns 
 that Zoe has a good heart, she doesn't like to hurt people, she trains in martial arts mainly because 
 her friend talked her into it, but also to stay in shape. She notices small things like, how pretty 
 flowers are, or how someone feels or a child's drawings. She analyzes things she encounters from 
 a woman's perspective, she doesn't know everything and when she doesn't, she'll say so. The attention 
 to detail the author went into to develop Zoe's character is phenomenal, even down to the expression 
 on her face when she's shocked.
  
  I haven't enjoyed a game so much since I played the original Myst, what, 15 years ago or so? The 
 environments are so richly detailed, the locales she visits are so believable that I would like 
 to visit them myself, if that were possible. For example, one of the neatest things I noticed and 
 haven't in any other game was that in one of the locations she visits, it is raining. Normally, 
 in games rain is just an environmental effect, yet in this game the streets were actually wet, 
 the metals were wet, Zoe complained about the rain and you could even see the rain drops hitting 
 the puddles and rippling. The detail was so extreme and the immersion factor jacked up so high 
 that I felt as if I could actually feel the raindrops hitting me and seeing them splash when hitting 
 the walkways and puddles. Again, just another one of those things about the game you'd have to 
 see for yourself to fully appreciate. Every new location Zoe went to was just one eye-candy-feast 
 after another and I found myself taking screen-shots of the many sci-fi, picturesque landscapes 
 to use as desktop wallpapers and to make a screen-saver slide-show. Puzzles were fun to figure 
 out yet not frustrating. In some games of this adventure-game genre, the only way to solve puzzles 
 is to consult the solution book published by the authors. Abstract, impossible-difficulty level 
 puzzles serve no purpose other than to prolong a game and frustrate it's players. In Dreamfall, 
 however, the puzzles are all relevant and seem perfectly natural to the flow of the game. For example, 
 Zoe needs to get up there, so she's got to turn on the lift, but the lift motor isn't working, 
 so she needs to fix it. The puzzles are so flawlessly integrated into what she's already doing, 
 that they don't even seem as such, which only adds to the immersion factor. There were only two 
 times during the game, which I had to resort to a walk-through in order to progress. The rest of 
 time, the puzzles were just challenging enough to make me think but not hard enough to make me 
 throw up my hands up in frustration tab out to a bookmarked walk-through for easy reference.
  
  I've read that some players completed Dreamfall in only 10 hours, but It took me about 26 hours 
 to complete the game. I think the reason for this is I examined everything possible just to hear 
 the many characters' narrations about whatever it was. Each of the characters in Dreamfall had 
 completely different perspectives on things, which was entirely believable and realistic.
  
  The suspension of disbelief was nearly 100% for this game, which is something I have rarely 
 seen. The worlds feel alive and the characters naturally integrated into them and seem like they 
 belong exactly where they are. The entire game chock-full of thoroughly believable people who have 
 their own personalities, motivations, desires and even humor. Some of the more memorable characters 
 were: the homeless lady, Crow, the cart driver, Blindless Bob, the prison warden, the Chinese salesman, 
 the reformed wizard, and on and on. Every character in the story was extremely well done and, of 
 course, the voice acting was superb.
  
  I highly recommend Dreamfall for anyone who enjoyed Myst and who enjoys a great story more than 
 spraying enemies with bullets. Dreamfall was not just a great story though -- it was a masterpiece.
 
  
  Alz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugsy007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  I was at first blow away by how detailed and graphics were. The game got me intrigued right from 
 the beginning to end, and beyond. With a fabulous cast of characters, colourful environments and 
 an immense storyline makes it the best adventure game I have ever played. I may not have played 
 the prequel, but it still felt as though I didn't miss anything. The sound effects were great too.
 
  
  The puzzles however, weren't quite as difficult as I thought is would be. All you need is a little 
 common sense, a little luck and a lot of trial and error. And as for the battle system and the 
 battles as well, were too sweet and simple. Distance is all the matters. What makes the game even 
 simpler is that there are no side quests which could be a lot more entertaining. Another issue, 
 during the conversations, no matter what reply you give, will ultimately bring you to a common 
 path.
  
  Still, at the end of the day I was completely absorbed by the game as a whole. My love and favoritism 
 for adventure games is no doubt the reason for my enjoyment. Finally, the script itself was truly 
 moving and satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_balmer
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jul 1, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Oh my god, If I wanted to read a book I would go to the shop and buy one and I am sure it would 
 be cheaper than this game. There is so much talking about nothing really, I didn't find the story 
 remotely interesting, I have just this minute finished the game and I think I moved the character 
 4 inches before it went to cut screen till the end of the game, I think 2 of the levels I didn't 
 even move! If I had known this I would have gone to make a cup of tea. I only persevered with the 
 game until the end because it gave me something to moan about, and believe me if you play this 
 game you will feel the same. It it no way compares to other adventure games such as the Broken 
 Sword series. The puzzles in the game do require some thought in places, but not really challenging, 
 once you have completed a puzzle you have another load of talking and perhaps half a dozen cut 
 screens before you are able to move you character another couple of inches.
  
  Don't buy this game, you can have my copy as there is no way I will ever be playing it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriousangel
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 1, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for ths one to come out on the pc and really it was worth waiting.. I mean i 
 just couldnt resist playing the game until i finish it.. i mean the story wz making me play the 
 game.. n how can we eva not talk bout the adventure the game has got to offer? the sceneries the 
 back grounds the textures they will keep you off yo toes through out...... they have came up with 
 a new concept, an entirely different game, a story which we could only think of but couldnt talk 
 about..
  Graphics were just ok.. i mean the characters wrent created with the sort of detail.. but its ok 
 if they are creating such big environments..
  the water detail.. n the sunshine were encoded with cool effects.. i really admire that..
  what 
 was lacking in the game was the fighting style.. i mean.. there werent much options for you when 
 it comes to combat.. its like 2 or 3 moves n thats it.. you cant do much with it..
  Ending was kinda sad.. verrrry sad perhaps. i mean after al that you get nothing.. you couldnt change 
 any thing.. that shouldnt have happen.. or may be they are looking for an expansion.. an up comming 
 Dream Fall to continue their story..
  ne wayz guyz the game is cool and yo gonna love it .. its juz like living a movie.. Trust me.. Go 
 get yo piece today!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnAzUg
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 28, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  well... i try out this one because of the reviews i saw. Dissappointed would be my first feeling. 
 Not what i expected. i scored it with a 5. i was expecting a little bit more action, a more freeing 
 kind of game, interesting it is indeed but it is as mostly as the majority of the RPG kind i've 
 played. with a PLANE storyline, the options given aren't modifying anything. The game almost guide 
 you where and what to do. It is exciting though but not merely successfully pleasant. Well as i 
 said before... kind of dissappointing and straight. Well diserved 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepurple2004
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting years for it... As you may understand ,for me, the first Longest Journey is the 
 best adventure game I've ever played. The real question is: Is Dreamfall worthy of the name longest 
 journey? Absolutely!!!
  It's worth it except for Dreamfall is not an adventure. It's an interactive movie. In fact you don't 
 do many things but you are just watching the storyline. Impressive graphics, great sound, interesting 
 scenario, but it lacks seriously in the gameplay. If you think that you are going to solve riddles 
 or puzzles STAY AWAY!!! You'll be really dissapointed. The ending leaves great ''gaps''probably for 
 a sequel but it's not dissapointing. (I've read other reviews about it and I disagree) You should 
 have played at least 2-3 the first longest journey in order not to miss a clue in the dreamfall 
 storyline. An that's the tough part. Players that are not familiar with the first game will not be 
 able to comprehend dreamfall.
  Resuming... Only for those who have loved and played the first longest journey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kruddman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 27, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of the first Longest Journey I had high hopes for this sequel. I was hoping to see 
 a reinvigoration of the adventure game genre. Instead I got 10 hours of dialogue. That's pretty 
 much all this game is: watching the characters talk... and talk and talk... Mixed intermittently 
 with some rather dull and unchallenging puzzle solving and really bad "combat". 
  
  I admit the story was rather engaging and interesting but they do nothing to make the player feel 
 like a part of it. I can't call any of the puzzles in the game really puzzles. It always seemed 
 obvious what needed to be done.
  
  There's so much missed potential with this game. It seems strange that they worked on it for so 
 long and this is what they ended up with.
  
  There's also the sudden ending with none of the ends being tied. I'm not sure I'm willing to pay 
 for the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-bishop
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is like watching a somewhat mediocre movie, having to click the mouse button from time 
 to time to advance the annoyingly long pointless dialogs. I feel an urge to sleep after "playing" 
 this "game" for more than 15 minutes. There is not much to do. The game consists 90% of running 
 around and talking. Run Run Run. Blah Blah Blah. Repeat 100 times- and... you are all set for TLJ 
 3. The game has the most blatant set-up for the next follow-up I've ever seen. The game provides 
 nor resolution nor satisfaction to the player for completing it. After all the running and talking 
 all you get is "Thanks for coming. Come again." No way I'm buying the next installment.
  
  The action engine ranges from dull to impossible to use. In some closed quarters camera takes bad 
 angles that make it impossible to see the opponent- only take his hits. Totally not enjoyable- 
 it's more like a chore that needs to be done sometime to advance to a next cutscene / running marathon/ 
 yacking match.
  
  The environment graphics are good for most part. Some environments are plain beautiful. Too bad 
 they only exist to run through them once or twice- all interaction possibilities are totally lost. 
 The really weak part is the craracter animations. Jerky, unrealistic turns, lack of object interaction, 
 low polygon models- there is no place for that kind of thing in 2006 anymore. When there is a cutscene 
 of main character passing an object to someone or using something- its either is shown from behind 
 to hide the lack of animation, or you can plainly see that empty air is being passed... I've seen 
 better graphics 3 years ago!
  
  If you want a much better action-adventure with better storyline, graphics, puzzles, much more 
 enjoyable fighting and way more likable characters- try Beyond Good and Evil (2003) . Dreamfall 
 doesn't come even close, though it is 3 years newer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrinceXizor777
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  Alright, first off I just want to say that I have not played the original game yet, though I may 
 if I can get my hands on a copy.
  
  Dreamfall is a very immersive game. It has great graphics and some of the best voice acting that 
 I have ever heard in a computer game. The world is very nicely done, and the story is interesting.
 
  
  Why did I give it such a low score? Well, the gameplay is where Dreamfall suffers. This is the 
 most important part of a game, making sure that it is fun and that the controls are intuitive.
 
  
  The combat in Dreamfall is simple. That might seem like a good thing but its not. It consists of 
 blocking and a light and heavy attack, and the execution is awkward. 
  
  Dreamfall is also a very short game, in fact, I was expecting an epic adventure, but I finished 
 the game in about 7 or 8 hours. The puzzles were easy to solve and stealth consisted of holding 
 a button.
  
  The reason why this game received a 7 from me is because I really enjoyed the story despite the 
 fact that it was short, the world was immersive, and that I didn't pay for this game, otherwise 
 the score would have been worse.
  
  I hope that if a sequel is made, it makes up for the gameplay that Dreamfall lacks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeachyRamune
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Most of you do, which is why Dreamfall has had positive reviews. Let me start off by stating that 
 Dreamfall is an interactive novel with incredible audio. The game mainly consists of cutscenes, 
 which is alot since the game is just under 10 hours. 
  
  Gameplay: The most essential part of a "game". Dreamfall has little of this and where it does, 
 it executes in a fashion similar to an underexperienced cosmetic surgeon. Meaning, the gameplay 
 is horrifying and far too easy. On a large upside, you wont be playing much as you are just watching 
 a novel. 
  
  The mechanics of combat, puzzle and stealth within gameplay.
  
  Combat in Dreamfall is unresponsive and ape-like. A very large upside is that more than half the 
 fights can be avoided through proper character interactions. I chose to avoid the fighting and 
 was rewarded a better experience.
  
  Puzzles are far too simple and it's obvious it was made with young teens in mind. The puzzles aren't 
 frustrating at all though and it is as simple as breathing.
  
  Stealth in Dreamfall is an objective thing. If you're playing on keyboard and mouse, you will have 
 a hard time with the controls as you must hold down a set key then use your preferred keys to steer 
 the character. I will mention this more later when comparing Xbox version to the PC version. 6/10
 
  
  
  Sound: The majority of the voice acting is superior to any other game. It's up there with the best 
 of them such as the MGS series. The soundtrack is very fitting and you wont need to listen to third 
 party MP3 players this time. However, it's nothing too great. 7.5/10
  
  Visuals: Great, but not excellent. Some corners were cut, but not that much. Character models are 
 believable. Locations are on the low side this time, but the art direction does it's job fantasticaly. 
 The environment looks great. 9/10
  
  Story appeal: The game's main and unfortunately, only focus. During the course of Dreamfall you'll 
 feel scared for Zoe, the protagonist. You'll feel the softness of Alvane and security and safety 
 with April Ryan. The story moves and feels free to crticize it's own crypticism. The story is perfect. 
 10/10
  
  Final words: The game is much like a good novel that you want to buy, rather than read at the library. 
 You'll probably want to replay it after you've went out and bought the canon, The Longest Journey. 
 I'd say adventure fans and lovers of stories, saddle up and get ready for an escape to Arcadia. 
 8.3/10 (Not an average)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soul_666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  First of all I haven't played the original. That means I've missed a lot of allusions throughout 
 the game, but that's not necessarily a bad thing, because it makes me wanna play the original TLJ.
 
  
  Dreamfall is the middle part of a trilogy. So obviously it leaves you with a lot of unanswered 
 questions in the end.
  Almost everyone, who has played through Dreamfall, has his own theories on how the characters are 
 connected, on who the real bad guy is and on what will finally happen to the two inter-weaved worlds, 
 Stark and Arcadia, in which the game plays.
  
  In Stark, a futuristic earth, you play as Zoe Castillo, a witty young girl, who investigates into 
 the matter of her lost ex-boyfriend.
  In Arcadia, a medieval version of earth but with magic and mythical creatures, you play, most of 
 the time, as April Ryan, the main character of the original TLJ.
  She is fighting an oppressor, who wants to impose his believes upon April's people.
  Ultimately 
 you find out how the two worlds are connected and that actions in one world will directly affect 
 the other.
  But what do you actually know in the end ? Well, not much. It answers some of the questions it's 
 bringing up itself, but leaves you with a stare on your face just like an episode of TV's cliffhanger 
 show 24.
  The game on it's own might not be as fulfilling as we are used to, but as part of a trilogy it's 
 fabulous. The bad thing is that, unlike 24, we will have to wait a few years until the questions 
 are answered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey starts out a little slow but the pace gets quicker and more exciting 
 as more is adding to the story which ends on a cliffhanger/ happy ending. The graphics are pretty 
 good for an adventure game and the voice acting is done very well. D: TLJ gives the player a look 
 into the future with cool robots and hover cars which can be kind of generic. While D: TLJ is not 
 your average adventure game it feels as if it needs more interactibility along with its great story 
 and average fighting setup. The player can choose some verbal actions of Zoe but other than that 
 gameplay is pretty straight forward and can be good for noobs to the Dreamfall series and a let 
 down for hardcore fans. The puzzles can be challenging at times along with the sneaking, combat, 
 and exploring done in D: TLJ. Many loading times plague D: TLJ along with lots of backtracking that 
 can be repeatitive. In the end Dreamfall is a good adventure game but falls short in key elements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captain_Corelli
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall is but the last of a series of adventure games where beautiful sound and graphics have 
 replaced the fun of exploring and challenges. Compared to the predecessor, the last journey, this 
 game is close to be solely an epic narrative rather than a game. There is next to no possibilities 
 to divert from the narrow epic line. The tale is good but one wonders why the medium, computer 
 games, has been chosen rather than submitting this as a screen play. There are far too many cut 
 scenes which does not even act as real cut scenes but rather allows the characters to talk on endlessly 
 about supposed action rather than letting the game player watch it or play it. It is a shame that 
 the creators have found it necessary to use only talking scenes to progress the story.
  Never in the game is there more than one option to take and the puzzles are basically time limited 
 matchings. 
  All in all I have been deeply disappointed that most opportunities to explore and thus divert from 
 the narrow structure of the narrative has been removed in this game. I will almost go so far as 
 to say that there isn't much gaming left. All you have is a great story told through a medium not 
 really suited for tales. No suspense, no gaming or exploring, no solving puzzles, great graphic, 
 good sounds, great story but no fun playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rileyth1
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a chore not an adventure.
  
  The story makes no sense. There is no real protagonist. None are either likable, nor unlikable. 
 They just "are". Boring Boring Boring
  
  The graphics are okay, but worst of all is the interface. Hard to use and not worth the effort 
 to look around. and explore these worlds. 
  
  For example what is up with that bird thing on the dock?
  
  The "puzzles" might be challenging 
 if you were drunk or sleep deprived. But mostly consist of pacing through cut scenes. MANY cut 
 scenes
  
  The characters look like rejects from other (older) games. 
  
  It almost makes you forget that the first game was good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  Well first when i started playing it i thought that this would be borring game, long chats , but 
 after few episodes i started to like those chats , the game was wery good made , there were 3 roles 
 to play with , first dreamfall was a little mixed game but after few hours of playing everything 
 started to get right , well this was my first adventrue game i ever played and i realy enjoyed 
 it realy , ending was realy dramatic , but i gues from the ending maybe there will be anather part 
 of this game , because it shows that everything isint finished yet , i realy say try this game 
 maybe you wount be dissapointed ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveh99
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  This game is stunning, both visually and aurally. The voice acting is of a calibre that is barely 
 present in current games. I was so unbelievably addicted to the storyline that I had played the 
 entire game in one sitting - 12 hours straight ;)
  
  Supposedly the original is even better although less so in the graphics department (given the age 
 of the game) .
  
  The game itself is very light on gameplay but this is what enthralled me so much, because it allowed 
 you to concentrate on the storyline.
  
  Overall an excellent game that really surprised me and fax exceeded my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karooomy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  As long as i was playing this game i was thinking of it as 1 of the best adventure game ever released 
 ... but .... i finished it, and i doubt it now... the game graphics is awesome ofcourse, music not 
 bad, game play is reachable, the story is getting big, bigger, and bigger till i thought this game 
 due to vast, would never end and then every thing ended leaving a very much open end, or should 
 i say a very bad end ... i know it's the real world where every thing isn't ending happily, but 
 after u finish the game , u don't know what happened, i thought there's a part 2 or somethin but 
 i didn't found any thing, weird....
  
  if u plan 2 have an adventure game, plz search first for the superior indigo prophecy, syberia 
 1,2... if u played all these, then u may try this 1 , i shall say it's good, but it would be much 
 better if either they worked on the story abit longer or develop a complement part quickly, otherwise, 
 there's only 1 word, disapponited end .... have fun.......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chichan123
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 19, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall is the game that may not appeal to everyone. The game's focus is on interaction and story 
 than actual gameplay. Longest Journey released in 2000 was considered as the best adventure game 
 to date for its deep storyline and cleverly designed puzzles. Now after six years, the expectations 
 are high for this sequel. Does the game live up to the expectations? Well i cant answer it.... after 
 playing the game i have mixed reactions.
  
  The game is very short. It took just 10 hours to finish it. But the storyline is very strong and 
 moves at a good pace to keep the 10 hours entertaining. The game's graphics is a mixed bag. If Casablanca 
 looked plain and boring, Marcuria on the other side is beautifully rendered. The sound is the major 
 plus point of the game. All the environmental sounds and voice acting are top notch. The music is 
 also a winner. There is not much at gameplay side. Only a few puzzles to solve (mostly easy, except 
 that annoying lock pick puzzle) , some combat sequences and the so called stealth sequences. The stealth 
 part is really a joke and combat is very easy. Apart from that there is only running and backtracking. So 
 gameplay could have been better.
  
  One thing i like about the game is characters and interaction. Some of the memorable characters 
 from Longest Journey like The Crow (my favourite) , Brian Westhouse, Charlie, Emma and even the evil 
 Roper Plancks makes a return in Dreamfall apart from new characters in this game. Our heroine Zoe 
 is likable and its fun when she meets the old characters.
  The game moves at a good pace from start and reaches the high point when all the three playable 
 characters meet at same place. But things go wrong afterwards and the ending is crappy, which ruins 
 the entire game. It destroys the whole purpose of the game.
  
  So to conclude the game has some memorable characters with fantastic voice acting backed by the 
 powerful storyline. But the absence of actual gameplay and unacceptable climax, prevents this from 
 being a perfect sequel. Strictly for adventure gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotrfan_1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 15, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  With the intense characters and excellent story of its predecessor, Dreamfall is one of the best 
 adventure games that you can get today. Combining excellent puzzle and action elements with some 
 of the most in depth character work I have ever seen.
  
  As soon as you start playing Dreamfall, you should be prepared to warp through hours at a time. 
 Dreamfall is a game that draws you in, and makes you forget about the time you spend in front of 
 it. It is so adictive that you might look at your watch and realize that it's 5:00 in the morning 
 and your still wanting to go on.
  
  Aside from excellent character work and one of the best stories in a game, the game suffers from 
 minor drawbacks that may seem trivial, but lead to major frustration. Combat in the game is a painstaking 
 affair, with clunky controls and delayed actions. Frequent load times break up the flowing story, 
 and lackluster graphics make the characters fail to live up to themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lncualop
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 12, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Looking at all the reviews out there, it's hard not to pick up Dreamfall, especially if you're 
 a fan of the adventure game genre. My sense of anticipation was deadened somewhat when I opened 
 the package to find 6, yes SIX, shiny CDs stacked in an extra-thick DVD keepcase. The last time 
 I've seen a game with this many discs was during the days of FMV (Wing Commander IV and Gabriel 
 Knight II) . The install process was long and a lesson in patience. Thank goodness I only had to 
 do it once.
  
  Once you've spent a good amount of time installing the game and configured it, you will be treated 
 to a visual and aural delight. The graphics and sounds of Dreamfall are nothing short of amazing. 
 The voice acting seems to be good as well, and the writing is solid. The story is as original as 
 they come, making some references to the previous game, The Longest Journey. Still, the game is 
 playable without knowledge of the first game, but you will be scratching your head at some points 
 of the game. It boasts a total of 3 playable characters (1 major, 2 minor) . Lastly, the game is 
 expansive, with huge, beautiful environments, a large cast of complex charcters, and a rich story 
 to pull from.
  
  As much as I want to give the game high scores, a number of bugs and issues mar the presentation. 
 First of all, the game doesn't take highly to the latest Forceware Drivers from nVidia (84.69 as 
 I write this) . There seems to be some slight graphics corruption in textures drawn further into 
 the distance. Next, there is an issue with the first CD where it tries to reinstall the game every 
 time you insert it in your drive. It looks like the autorun. inf just points to the setup. exe and 
 not some semi-smart Launcher application. Lastly, the biggest headache of Dreamfall is the story 
 itself.
  
  Don't get me wrong, Dreamfall has a great story, and its quite long, the problem is that it ends 
 too abruptly, as if on a cliffhanger. A good part of the game's locations are only visited once 
 for about a few minutes, but those areas are fully fleshed out (hence the large number of CDs) . 
 The ending is disappointing and anti-climactic, and a lot of the plot threads are unresolved and 
 you are left with more questions than answers. The story would have been better without the dilly-dally 
 of the secondary characters, April and Kian. Still, the game is a solid experience and an original 
 story, but wait for the price to go below $39.99 before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myriokephalon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Having just finished Dreamfall, my emotions are difficult to describe, even from the deepest, non-verbal, 
 internal sense to myself. But what I will tell you is this.
  
  Dreamfall is an important game.
  
  And not just important as a game. This is far more than 
 just entertainment. Those who do not experience it, even those who detest games or simply do not 
 understand them (Roger Ebert, I'm staring at you) , are missing something vital.
  
  I admit that in order to appreciate the shock of the events that occur in Dreamfall fully, you 
 have to have played The Longest Journey first. But considering how good The Longest Journey is, 
 that's not that much of a problem. I recommend you play it first. The Longest Journey sort of serves 
 as the founding myth of the story, the framework, the background, which Dreamfall leaps out from, 
 to truly begin the tale. Actually, no, that's not true at all. Like any truly great story I have 
 seen (great is a word thrown around too much; ether that, or there there needs to be a new adjective 
 describing Dreamfall) the setting is never really finished; creation of it continues with each 
 chapter, at least until the ending is finally reached, if there is an ending.
  
  What I am worried about is that someone may read this and generate their own expectations that 
 will be a different game from what this is. So if you buy the game, please, please, please, approach 
 the game with optimistic skepticism. That's an oxymoron, isn't it? Oh well.
  
  So how good is the story of Dreamfall? Good does not describe it, nor could any other number of 
 words do it justice. All I can say is that for anyone who places value in stories, important stories, 
 will value what Dreamfall has to say.
  
  Now, I would like to apologize for that little rant there. Precious little people are going to 
 read this, but I needed to burn my thoughts onto something, before they became memories. Rarely 
 has anything left me as heartbroken as this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco1402
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 9, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  warning: possible spoilers
  
  If you are around 30 or so, like me, you've may have seen the movie "The never ending story" when 
 you where a kid. If you are a bit like me that movie would have made some impact on you. Well, 
 this story is a bit like the one in that movie. The never ending story... The longest journey, even 
 the title has a resemblance.
  
  This game is all about it's story. It's an adventure game, but not a classical one. The puzzle 
 solving is just to make you feel and interact with the environment and story drawn in front of 
 you. 
  
  The great differences with it's predecessor "The longest journey" are it's pretty 3D graphics and 
 the character dialogues. This resulted sometimes in some moments I caught myself thinking I was 
 watching a soap opera. That's because the main character her life and emotional (not so well) being 
 is spread out in front of you in inner dialogues and lengthy conversations with other characters. 
 The bottom line of that is that Zoe is a girl who doesn't know what to do with her life at this 
 particular moment.. etc etc. A classic start of someone who needs a enervating experience that will 
 put her thoughts about life upside down and give her a totally new perspective on life. 
  
  This line of story is bound to drive upon some major clichs. And it does up to a point. But it's 
 done in such a way that it feels like a new -never been told before- kind of story:
  
  There is the "real" world which has become a world of a dominant government spying on it's citizens 
 constantly. A very un-free world to live in; A world with all the material wealth but with a communistic 
 like government controlling everybody. 
  And there is the dream world (which is very real also) Where there is freedom of thought and believe 
 in magic etc. 
  This dream world is invaded and threatened in three different ways. 
  
  1. From within: 
  The main civilization is overrun by the Tyren which in their turn are overrun 
 by another race, that claims to have helped the main civilization but in the end only forcing their 
 will on this people (Where did I hear this story before?) Resulting in a story line that tells 
 the difficulties and nuances of different viewpoint which both claim to be on the good side, and 
 pointing to the other part to be on the bad side. (I couldn't help relating this story to the American-Iraq 
 conflict, giving a very actual political edge to the story) A brilliantly worked out dilemma in 
 it self.
  
  2. The other way in which this dream world is threatened is from the "real" world by a corporation 
 that want to make the control the government has on everyday life of people even tighter by controlling 
 their dreams. This also has some entries into actual facts of western society. It definitely is 
 a thought provoking story. 
  
  3. With these two threads of the storyline the main story hasn't even been told. That comes where 
 the two world interconnect, and where the main character has to go to resolve the problem of the 
 "undreaming". This is where I had a deja vu, remembering the story in "the never ending story." 
 
  This last line thread isn't worked out really yet, and will probably be more emphasized in the 
 sequel.
  
  So if you can keep these 3 story lines separate and remember which of the characters play a part 
 in these different stories this game wants to tell, it will help telling all the things that happen 
 apart and putting them into their place. 
  
  All in all the ending really did it for me to give this game a high score. Some narrative talent 
 has been working on this one. I can understand that one could desire for a more fulfilling ending, 
 but I thought of it as a welcome refreshing difference from the standard line of development in 
 fantasy/science fiction stories. Well, just a matter of taste maybe. 
  
  Nevertheless a class apart, and a potential start of a new genre. Science fiction, soap opera, 
 adventure game, fantasy, philosophy, humanistic political thoughts, all in one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NuMoon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I was so sucked into the story that 5 hours FLEW by and I didnt even realize that I had stayed 
 up until 2 am to finish the game. I went to sleep hoping Id dream my own ending  but alas my 
 dreamworld was closed to me. PLEASE HURRY WITH THE SEQUEL!!! 
  
  As much as I don't like the open ending I'm kinda liking it as well... It just leaves you with 
 so much to think about. I'm really hoping the game sells well and they do make the next one. I 
 do have a fear that people may learn of the open ending and not want to get the game -- but it 
 is so great -- I hope they give it the chance it deserves.
  
  This one did have a few things I didn't like that I hope they fix in the next one (I have to believe 
 and have faith that there will be one) : A) make it more like the first in game play  add puzzles 
 this one was light on puzzles and they were all the same each time. B) remove the fighting (it 
 was WAY to easy to win) if I wanted to fight I'd get a fighting gamed
  
  Final thoughts... I still LOVED this game, maybe not as much as the first, but I'm hoping once 
 we get to the end that all of the games can be viewed together as one amazingly entertaining and 
 fun ride.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalashaska88
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I am quite dissapointed with Dreamfall. After all the hype surrounding it, Dreamfall 
 to me, was a quite an achievement in storytelling department, but it barely lives up to the brilliance 
 of the Longest Journey, which was a fine masterpiece and an unforgettable adventure game. Graphically, 
 the game is awesome, but has its flaws. Yes, the environments, the inhabitants, both in Stark and 
 Arcadia, is a sight to behold. But when you actually interact with these elements, You'll notice 
 that that the game's graphics are mainly for show only. The characters, despite looking very interesting, 
 lack emotion, especially when they are speaking. Although the dialogues are witty, smart, wonderfully 
 voiced and nicely written, they dont go well with the characters' weak projection of emotion. Of 
 course, there is a bit of lip sync, but it wasn't enough to cloak the the terrible facial expressions.
 
  
  Take Zoe for example. When she speaks, it looks very robotic, while the eyes show little or no 
 emotion at all, and it looks weird. It looks so plastic! Gameplay wise its just average, nothing 
 really bad about it, and nothing really good either. Hacking, lockpicking, nothing that really 
 stands out. Perhaps what really made want to go on playing this game is it's wonderful storyline 
 and it is one of the best storyline in a video game ever. But ,I was left dissapointed in the cliffhanger 
 ending that left many mysteries and conflicts unsolved. Will there be a sequel? Only time time 
 will tell. Still, Dreamfall is a great adventure game anyone who appreciates a brilliant story 
 should definitely check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raeget
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  For years, adventure games have been best known for their immersive stories, interesting characters, 
 and a believable voice-acting cast. Let's just say that Dreamfall: The Longest Journey has two 
 of those things going for it.
  
  Dreamfall is one of those games that despite several noticeable flaws, can still keep you playing 
 for hours at a time. You play as two main characters: Zo Castillo, a young girl living with her 
 father in Casablanca, and April Ryan, the heroine from the first game. The game uses these two 
 characters to seamlessly blend the two worlds together. You see, Dreamfall is based in two alternate 
 universes. One would be Zo's world, our universe except many years in the future. The other one 
 is Arcadia, a magical world where April lives full of strange creatures. You start out the game 
 as Zo, who is searching for her friend Reza, an investigative reporter who mysteriously disappeared 
 while researching a story about a giant corporation. I don't want to spoil the game, but let's 
 say that Zo and April will eventually meet and that the sh*t just may hit the fan.
  
  The story in Dreamfall is obviously its finest point. As you play through the game, you may think 
 that you're watching a movie or a Hollywood adaption of a best-selling novel. Despite that, I still 
 have one problem with the game: the voice acting. Even though you may try your hardest at times 
 to take the game seriously, the awful voice acting can keep you from enjoying the game to its full 
 potential. Don't get me wrong, it's not all bad. There are characters who are portrayed quite well. 
 Even the bad ones have their time to shine. I just feel that it could've been better. I find it 
 hard to play a game with a story such as this and still have to listen to Zo's fake British accent.
 
  
  Overall, Dreamfall: The Longest Journey will be appealing to wide audience with its wonderful story 
 and well-developed characters. On the other hand, if it wasn't for the voice-acting, I just might 
 have given this a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gleb_31
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Zoe is the best there. The graphyk is great, the gameplay is great, only I sometimes don't like 
 movements of the camera. It's a bit hard to control it. But still. The story is the best. It's 
 very possible that poverty will use our cell-phones to look after us and there lots of moments 
 that can be in the future. I would even like just travel by town there and explore different little 
 things like newspapers some decoration stuff. I like the mimics of faces there it's very cool and 
 easy to spot, especially when Zoe is afraid, her eyes become very big and scared. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medivth
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  Pros: Best story to come out since The Longest Journey itself: emotional, provocative, unforgettable, 
 enlightening; extremely memorable characters; stellar voice acting; beautiful soundtrack; yes, 
 theres going to be a sequel!
  
  Cons: Simple combat; not much challenge in puzzles; story leaves you wanting more; oh Id be tormented 
 having to wait for the sequel!
  
  Above all else Dreamfall delivers a story thats like no other, something thats highly uncommon 
 to gaming these days. 
  
  Look at all the games currently out there, theyre all pushing more polygons and piling up features, 
 like adding more explosions into a movie. Granted, these games are fun to play, but when it all 
 ends, theres this lack of meaning. Wouldnt be nice if not only if games deliver an experience 
 thats eye-opening, virtually life-changing experience and turning the game players world upside 
 down? 
  
  Thats just what Dreamfall and its predecessor (The Longest Journey) are about. Its a thrilling 
 journey filled with deep and profound sense of meaning. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: owen_2
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Summary
  The strength of Dreamfall is the dreamy and compelling storyline, the characters, the conversations 
 and the overall mood. It especially offers impressive landscapes. On the down side: the story leaves 
 questions unanswered and creates a lot of new questions still to be answered, the characters are 
 badly rendered and as a game it is weak, with annoying controls, simple puzzles and rudimentary 
 and slow combat. Dreamfall hovers in the twilight zone: is it a game with expansive cut-scenes 
 or is it an animated movie with gaming elements?
  
  Questioning statement:
  Is a game a game if the passive time spent on it equals or surpasses the active time spent on it?
 
  
  This I wondered when after I finished Dreamfall. A large part of the game I spent in watching. 
 Notably the second half of the game consists of chapter after chapter passing by with little interference 
 from the player. Is it a game? But let's not get ahead of things and talk about the good and the 
 bad in their own turns.
  
  The right stuff
  The cornerstone of Dreamfall is its great storyline. The story is about Zo, a young naive girl 
 who has lost her purpose in live and inadvertently gets involved in murky plot surrounding her 
 best friend (and former lover) Reza, a young reporter. When Reza disappears she tries to find him, 
 partly because she got nothing better to do and partly because she still loves her former boyfriend. 
 
  While Zo is the main character in the story, you also get to play two other persons, April Ryan, 
 the disillusioned hero from the previous Longest Journey game and Kian, a sort of special agent 
 from an empire in one of the world. The different story-lines are nicely woven and keep things 
 interesting.
  An additional good thing about this game is the stunning views. There are a lot of different environments 
 to see and some are truly beautiful. 
  The developers certainly kept an eye out that the mood was fitting. Casablanca, Zos home town, 
 is a warm pleasant sunny place with warm open people, enhancing the feeling of being a safe place. 
 This contrasts with unpleasant locations that are harsh and cold in their outlook and devoid of 
 nice beings.
  Conversations are an important aspect of the game. You have often different ways to react in a 
 conversation thus being able to develop your own conversation line. 
  The right stuff is that the developer spent much effort to create a captivating storyline and made 
 every effort to enhance it by creating beautiful environments.
  
  The afterthought
  The storyline keeps Dreamfall going, but some aspects of the game detract from the experience. 
 
  The first that catches the eye is how plain the characters look. This is noticeable because of 
 the contrast with the well-done environments and because conversations are a large part of the 
 game, which means that you spent a lot of time looking at people. Zo, the main character, looks 
 a lot nicer on the cover of the manual than she does in the game. 
  Another thing is the camera handling. Dreamfall is a third-person game in which the camera hovers 
 a few meters behind the character. I was not able to change the focus, the height and the angle, 
 which is especially frustrating, when your character is located in area's with low ceilings and 
 needs to avoid a nasty being. The camera also has the annoying effect to react on obstacles like 
 walls, meaning that if your character runs into an enclosed space the camera suddenly closes up 
 on the character.
  Game controls are basic and sluggish. When movement becomes important, in combat or when you need 
 to escape pursuit, it becomes annoying. 
  The game has all kinds of logical challenges which are almost all simple in design. In general 
 they consist of acquiring access to a location by using an object in your possession or located 
 in the same room. This object is either the only one in your inventory that fits the purpose or 
 it is the only one that can be found in the same area. 
  Combat occurs about eight times in the game and this might be the reason why it is so rudimentary 
 implemented. It is slow and consists of two attack forms, with no combinations possible. Fights 
 consist of two types: easy ones and impossible ones, the first are meant to be fought, the second 
 are the one's you are not suppose to fight and you need either to run or load the save-game. 
 
  All-in-all the game elements, the part that requires your active intervention, seem to be implemented 
 by afterthought. Everything is really basic as if Dreamfall is not meant to be a game at all.
 
  
  Preparing for a sequel?
  An aspect of the Dreamfall storyline is the loose ends. Either the developers aimed on purpose 
 at a sequel or they overreached themselves by creating a story which did not fit one game. All-in-all 
 this story is certainly not finished and the game ends with a big cliff-hanger. 
  
  Evaluation
  My verdict on this on hangs in the balance. The story surpasses many other stories 
 in the games I played. But as a game it is at times a frustrating experience. The fact that the 
 Dreamfall in the end leaves many questions unanswered and raises a lot more is something to take 
 into account. I usually ask myself: would I want to play this game again? In the case of Dreamfall 
 I would say: no.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: julije
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  For a person that has not played it's prequel, it is definitely fascinating to be able to play 
 the game without feeling left out from the story. Most of the parts are told about the previous 
 game which makes it not part of the problem. One of the biggest magic that Ragnar successfully 
 composed was as if you're inside the game when you play it. Everything seem so beautiful, emotional 
 and your feelings flow with the game. Honestly, I can't describe this with words. So for those 
 who are yet curious to try out this game, give it a shot and I dare to say you'd love the game 
 as well.
  
  Graphics wise, it's up to satisfactory. Of course, I was expecting something more from the graphics 
 but it's good enough for this game.
  
  Sounds. It's the beautiful songs that pitches and tune our minds emotionally in this Dreamfall. 
 The voice acting was almost real. Every sentence from every character, voice was involved and I'd 
 say those who voice acted this game was purely talented indeed especially the one who did the voice 
 for Zoe. 
  
  Somehow, I'm a little disappointed with the fact that an adventure game that lacks are puzzles. 
 I was expecting that a 3 year development game would be done thoroughly to fill in the cracks and 
 holes but they definitely missed out the part where puzzles and riddles are supposed to be an instilling 
 feature of an adventure game.
  
  Those who have not read a good book in month, perhaps this could be a perfect time to grab a story 
 full of mystery, question marks and definitely a thought-provoking moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stedmister
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Wow is all I can say, this game is great, but as I have played the first it just does not reach 
 the level of the first, but you always get that with se, there not as good as the previous installments.
 
  
  Story:
  
  The story is well write and scripted, plays more like a movie than a game. I thought three characters 
 were too much for a game, but I was wrong, they work well with each other.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are spectacular, they are really well done, there are a few problems as there 
 are will all games, but that is very minor, the graphics are superior done than the first.
  
  Sound:
  
  All I can say is wow, the sound is excellent, and the sound effects make you 
 believe you are there. The music is also well done and fit each scene perfectly, adding licensed 
 tracks was an excellent idea, it brings more realism and dept to the characters.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay has chance no more point and click, I found it plays more like KOTOR 
 or Jade Empire than an tradition adventure, which everyone might not like, The keyboard is the 
 only downside to the gameplay, it's really frustrating with the keyboard, but if you have an Xbox 
 or PC gamepad, it works well, I used a gamepad, which I found a lot easier to use than the keyboard, 
 the mouse on the other hand I found was best suited for focus field control and the lock pick puzzles. 
 Go buy a PC gamepad; you will be glad you did.
  
  Overall:
  
  This game is great to play, fun, exciting, and VERY VERY story driven if you are just looking for 
 a nice story driven adventure game with LOTS of dialog Dreamfall is for you, but go buy a gamepad 
 before you do, you will be glad you did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sara821
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely on my top-5 list of best games ever. It took me a while to appreciate it, 
 the first hours of gameplay I got annoyed by the fact that you hardly get to interact, solve riddles 
 and actually play. Throughout the whole game, the video sequences dominate, but though the story 
 is really interesting and the game is so well done with voiceacting and all, I actually got to 
 appreciate this. You get swept into a fascinating world (or actually two) and you can't wait to 
 find out more...
  
  The ending is the only thing that doesn't keep the same quality as the rest of the game. It is.. 
 not as disappointing as confusing. You get left with a whole number of loose ends and not only 
 that, you get a few more at the very ending scene. I've understood that there's going to be a third 
 game, but for the ones that actually bought this one, it is unfair to leave with an unfinished 
 story. This part could have been done better and there had still been room to continue the story. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace_na
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 30, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This game has nothing to do with real adventure games, it was like watching a movie there, and 
 the player barely has to do anything in the game, rather than walking and talking to people, and 
 there were no puzzles to solve, it's far away from real adventure.
  
  and not to mention the plot, which is very very not connected, and it ended horribley, it's like 
 the whole game was glued together just to get some money, the graphics sucks, the controls sucks, 
 the plot sucks, most of the game sucks, probably the only 2 good things wich i found there were 
 the sounds and the 'crow' jokes.
  
  Well the guys who had played the old longest journey game well sure get very dissapoineted after 
 playing the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sortam
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey aint too long this time, but Mr Tornquist and his Funcom companions 
 really are single-handedly resurrecting the genre of adventure games.
  TLJ was a glimmer of hope in the fading world of adventure games back in 2000. The world had been 
 invaded by first person shooters and Guy Threepwood was nothing but a distant memory  exiled onto 
 your PDA. But TLJ proved there were still people out there who wanted to point and click, still 
 valued great story telling, and still believed in the genre.
  That was six years ago. Today, Mr Tornquist presents us with his vision of the future of adventure 
 games. Part two of this obvious trilogy is, as I am sure you will have read in many other reviews, 
 stunning in many ways. Visually, its as close to a Hollywood movie youll get in 2006. In fact, 
 professional game reviewers must find it increasingly strange as they find themselves pushing into 
 the realm of film critics. I feel the time when we have a star filled cast on an adventure game 
 is tantalizingly close.
  The best way to describe Dreamfall is this: The game IS what it is about. Playing the game is like 
 dreaming and being able to control your dreams. Just like your dreams use fragments of the real 
 world, so does Dreamfall. You can deduct that Tornquist was watching The Ring while writing the 
 sequence of the little girl. When I think of the drug that is given to people who use the Dreamer 
 machine in the story I think of the Matrix. The drug is called Morpheus. And I guess no one can 
 help thinking about Lord of the Rings when entering Arcadia.
  Speaking of Lord of the Rings, I remember feeling very annoyed after watching the first part of 
 Lord of the Rings, because nothing was concluded, everything had just started, and yet there I 
 was being ripped out of this world again, knowing that I would have to wait twelve long months 
 to re-enter. Well, this exactly the way I felt today, when the story of Dreamfall: The Longest 
 Journey surprised me, and ended. I was prepared to stay, but I was locked out! Now the only thing 
 that keeps me going is the knowledge that one day, I will re-enter this world.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnjaha99
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  With the second entry in the series it has become clear - no one can write a better story than 
 Funcom. When its all said and done I believe The Longest Journey series will defenitely go down 
 as the best adventure series in history surpassing even Kings Quest and Monkey Islands. Yes the 
 game is a little short, has some unecessary fighting (for console kiddies) , and it leaves some 
 loose ends (thats what the 3rd installment is for) , but any fan of the genre will be totally lost 
 in the immersiveness of the world and characters - and this is exactly what I want a game to provide. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bhemont
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  What i would like to say is this game offers great graphics and a beautiful world with Dynamic 
 lightning effects wich also effects the gameplay in the whole game, you play as Zo who's a dreamer 
 like the woman in previous game April Ryan and it kind of starts like a book, first you get to 
 know the characters a bit more and then you get to feel what is going around all around you. 
 
  
  This Game basically starts off 10 year later from the precious game, in the city of Casablanka 
 in near Future. You play as Female Zo with a dull life and few but good friends to be around with 
 and a ex Boyfriend Rez. But not everything is as it seems as something mysterious starts to happend 
 later on as you progress.
  
  The whole downside of the game is the configure, you actually use "W" "A" "S" "D" Buttons and hte 
 mouse just gets in the way. Also some of the characters don't have the realistic feeling as they 
 had in the previous but they make up for it with the graphics. 
  
  All in all it's definately worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theeeman
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  When i started playing dreamfall i never thought it would be a such a great story. it was like being 
 in a great book. when i first saw the game i was not very happy with the work of the graphics department. As 
 i had just finished playing oblevion and tomb raider legends. But after playing for an hour i got 
 hooked as the story seemed to drag me along as it played with te emotions of the player. But be 
 warned if u are expecting an action game like oblivion please do not buy this game. if u want to 
 play a pure adventure game with a unique storyline. make shure you buy it. Its story is more misterius 
 than half lifes Gman. it is a bit like syberia so syberia fans will love it. andas ragnar says
  You see, seorita, mystery is important. To know everything, to know the whole truth, is dull. 
 There is no magic in that. Magic is not knowing, magic is wondering about what and how and where.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackepacke
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The absolute stunning story that are told between worlds. I've just finished the game as i write, 
 took me about 25 h. And I only took a break for a couple of hours to sleep. The storyline gets 
 you really emotional from time to time, and i loved every second of it! The only game a I can compare 
 it to would be "Fahrenheit - Indigo prophecy", since i think that the gameplay is simular, only 
 this is so much better. You are controlling 3 different characters, in this somehow subdimensional 
 story. Zo, your main character, who is on a quest to find a missing friend and finds out more 
 about her self then she could ever imagine. April "Raven" Ryan, a freedom fighter who tries to 
 make peace with her past. And Kian, an apostle who is on some sort of holy crusade when he get 
 stuck in a crossroad between his faith in his godess on one hand, and the cruel reality that are 
 shown before his eyes on the other hand. theese 3 characters roads are crossed and complicated 
 conflicts seems to be unavoidable. 
  
  This game is a "must have" in your game collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonLessner
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 26, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Many people complain about the seemingly unnecessary action elements of this game. However, I appreciated 
 them, not as action elements, but as literary elements. Although done rather clunkily, the sneaking 
 and fighting don't so much act as a failed attempt at a mini-game, but more as an added level of 
 suspense to the environment, in that you spend a lot of time trying to avoid fights, rather than 
 spending time trying to master fighting. I feel that this helps immersion by making the player 
 feel there is real risk and danger, rather than a slowly plodding train of purely intellectual 
 puzzles.
  
  With that being said, I do feel they skimped a tiny bit on the intellectual puzzles, as compared 
 to the original Journey. I replayed the original in preparation, and found the traditional Adventuring 
 to be much more complex and involved than in Dreamfall. These chapters I feel move a bit too fast, 
 containing usually only one chain of puzzles plus an Action sequence and, of course, the requisite 
 character and plot development. I would have preferred that they ADDED Action sequence, rather 
 than REPLACING an Adventure sequence with an Action sequence.
  
  Aside from technical gameplay (Action/Adventure) , there's the issue of presentation and narrative, 
 which, if given the opportunity, I would rate a solid 11. The sets are mindblowingly beautiful, 
 to say the least. And yet they still somehow pale in comparison to the story and dialogue writing. 
 Couple this with voice acting far and away better than most movies I've seen, beautifully rendered 
 and animated characters (including a heroine that is clearly attractive without being generically 
 "boobed up") , and characters so deep and multifaceted that you can literally get lost in conversation 
 with them (example: Benrime at the Journeyman Inn) , and you've got a game that will repeatedly 
 make your jaw drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrabith
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the games I decided to check out after viewing the E3 presentation last year 
 from one of the russian magazines. I decided to check the "The Longest Journey" first and after 
 that I could not wait for this game. Dreamfall is amazing in all aspects. Sounds and music is amazing, 
 graphics and the way characters look is simply stunning. Worlds are just great. the only hard thing 
 is camera and movement. for me personally it took a long time to get hang of it. Puzzles are easier, 
 but it does not make game worse, it just makes you less to look in walkthrough. (Cause that's what 
 I do when I am stuck) I also liked a lot the underneath meaning of the game and how it references 
 fate and religion and a lot of other important things in the society. I think when I ended this 
 game today, one thing that I almost craked about was the fact how the game ended. All these characters, 
 everything left there hanging. I was pissed to the greatest extent, I though that maybe game has 
 alternative endings, but no. I really hope that there will be another game, because with the amount 
 of information left to fill, you simply want to see the continuation. this is even more then Half-Life 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acetken
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 25, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  What a waste of time this was. Sure, it looks pretty, but it's got no ending. Imagine that you're 
 watching a movie, if you will. Empire Strikes Back will do nicely. Most people have seen it, and 
 it's the second part of a trilogy, so it would be comparable to this.
  
  Imagine that the movie was 15 hours long and had a bunch of interesting plot development. Now zoom 
 to the end.
  Luke goes to fight Darth Vader, but before that, everyone else previously introduced in the story 
 just kinda goes away for no apparent reason. Then Luke winds up talking to a little girl and goes 
 into a coma instead. And then it rains frogs. And then Boba Fett shows up and says something menacing, 
 whips out his blaster and starts to do a Mexican hat dance.
  
  Yeah. It's like that, except remove the humour and add more bitterness that none of the plot threads 
 are closed. Bad form, Dreamfall. Bad form indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satori78
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 25, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Dissapointing, annoying, over-rated. I don't know why this game got such high scores - I think 
 the reviewers got blinded by the fact it says "the longest journey" in the title. Hell yeah, the 
 first game was a jewel, this one is... just feeding on the former's success. 
  
  I can't stand the overall clumsy, cheap feel of this game. It was done either in a hurry or by 
 an inexperienced team (they should've sticked with 2D, poor souls) , regardless of the hype and 
 marketing. 
  
  The best part of the first game was that you felt as if you explored a real world, in which all 
 the details fitted marvelously, you could really get attached to the characters, and each of them 
 had their own lives and personalities - it felt real and involving, and the dialogue was much deeper 
 and well-designed. It also felt as if the item-fetching was perfectly integrated into the story 
 and not as just a cheap way to get more length into the game. And let's not forget all the good 
 humour and sarcasm. All this good stuff is now gone. What we're left with is a story which isn't 
 half as good as some say, which is told in a hurry and is dressed into a schematic gameworld with 
 sloppy animation, ugly textures, absurdly-frequent loading screens, annoyingly unnecessary back-tracking, 
 obscenly easy and boring puzzles, sloppy sneaking and combat systems and mediocre dialogues. OH 
 yeah, undesigned plain generic interfaces. Sorry, the great voice-acting others mentioned is absent 
 too - ok sometimes, very good rarely, and mostly mediocre if not downright annoying. 
  
  GOOD STUFF:
  1. Arcadia looks nice though, and is overall more enticing to play than Stark. 
 
  2. Nice-looking areas and well designed characters and dialogues here and there. 
  3. The scary scene with the little girl is fully worth playing the game. And since it's happening 
 at the beginning, you can pretty much stop there :P
  4. The fact that you cand find out what has happened to the characters in the first game (if you 
 played the first game, they've already become close friends to you, didn't they?)
  5. That's it.
  
  The adventure in this game feels rushed, and nowhere as good, witty and enjoyable 
 as in the first game. Just a poor excuse for a sequel to milk money from a once-great-game.
  
  The developpers should be severely punished for making us think this is a great game. No it's 
 not - after getting through 75% of it, I can no longer force myself into finishing it.
  
  The idiotic bug that shows up on installing the game can't be forgotten either, nor should it be (even 
 if it's solvable with a bit of web-searching) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekou
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 25, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  Some games aren't really games, being more like movies or books or stories. Dreamfall is one of 
 those games. Actually you can hardly call it a game, because you'll spend more time watching cutscenes 
 than playing, so you get a 20-hours long movie. And a good one, too.
  
  Dreamfall's main character is Zo Castillo, an 18-years-old girl who quit school, doesn't go to 
 work and doesn't really do anything else. She's bored, she spends most of her time on a sofa and 
 she's not herself anymore. When her best friend disappears and she sets on a journey to rescue 
 him, however, she gains a new reason to live - and lots of trouble. You main objective at the start 
 of the game is to locate Zo's missing friend, rescue him and find out what the hell is going on.
 
  
  The game has 3 varieties of gameplay. You spend most of your time running around figuring out what 
 you should do or who should you speak to. Typical adventure game stuff. Then, there are stealth 
 missions and fighting. Stealth is ok, fighting is simple, but easy. The good thing is that Dreamfall 
 is never irritating hard. The bad thing is that it's way too easy. However, that shouldn't matter 
 because you don't play games like this because their gameplay rocks. You play them because of the 
 story.
  
  And the story is brilliant. You get to play as three (or should I say four) different characters, 
 and although in the beginning it's a bit slow-paced and boring, it gets really interesting towards 
 the end. The voice acting is great, and so is the music. Too bad the facial animations are very 
 weak and spoil it a bit.
  
  On the other side, if you haven't played the original, you should play it before this game, or 
 you won't understand half of what the characters speak about.
  
  Dreamfall sure has a wondeful story, so if you have played TLJ and liked it, you should definitely 
 pick this game. If you haven't, buy the first part. It looks a bit dated, but is still a great 
 game with a brilliant story and great puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luisto
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall has no peers, I don't know what other game to compare it to (except maybe The Longest 
 Journey) . The game starts slowly, but after a while the plot gets so detailed and the emotions 
 get so real that it's hard to stop. The characters, flawed, confused and afraid, but still trying 
 to do "the right thing" got me from the start.
  
  The story is probably the best part of this game, and I'm glad to play a game with a story better 
 than most books and movies I've seen. This is a real grown-up game, with a story that covers religion, 
 democracy and dictatorships, the dual faces of terrorism, thought control, and many other serious 
 and thought-provoking subjects in a very subtle fashion. I've finished the game a while ago and 
 am still trying to absorb everything I've seen, and the emotions I've felt while playing it are 
 still too raw.
  
  I have to recommend this game to anyone who wants a good, deep, complex story and who is tired 
 of typical Hollywood formulas. This game is ANYTHING but typical! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 24, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I am sorry for having to start talking about this game with making it absoletly obvious that this 
 is a very rubbish, anyways lets talk about the good stuff.
  
  theres none, this game is indeed the worst thing man can do to himself, but it is a wicked present 
 when you think about it.
  
  the story isnt so bad you know, you play along invistegating some sort of big story, following 
 clues and collecting evidence and finding out about conspiracies and thats cool. as i said the 
 storyline isnt so bad on the contrary its the best the game has.
  
  thesedays its hard to say the a game is well made, good graphics and stuff because all recent games 
 are well made and has good graphics but this game has one of the best graphics elements around, 
 if you have played Tomb Raider: Legend you must have noticed the incridible graphics that game 
 had, but still you must have had the strongest machine to see that working, but in this game you 
 dont need a very strong machine to play the game you just need a fair middle-end ... if there anything 
 called that ... to play the game really easy.
  
  the voice acting, hmm.. well, this game has a phenominal voice acting, the actors are really really 
 talented, but you see the game is really boring, so you find yourself watching tons of hours of 
 acting ... so its basicly a very long movie so its a good thing if you dont have a mouse or a keyboard 
 and you just want to see things rather than watching your screen saver.
  
  this game is supposed to be an adventure game ...... where are the puzzles. why do i have to skip 
 all those loads of cinematics, and why is all puzzels soooooo easy to solve and most definitly 
 unchallengable.
  
  i spent many hours playing the game it basicly has three or four kinds of puzzles or things you 
 need to do to move on, but still you need to watch or skip lots of movies or cinamtics or cutscenes 
 or whatever.
  
  ah yeah another thing ... there is some kind of fighting in this game, with swords and it is really 
 really really amazingly weak, stupid and worthless.
  
  if you really hate yourself but or even play the game, if you think so one would want it just give 
 it to them, i shall donate my copy soon.
  
  damn you funcom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norwaygamer
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 24, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game, it was solely because of the sights and good experiences its predecessor, 
 The Longest Journey, had given me, and I had looked forward to this sequel coming for some time. 
 Since it's hard work living up to such an astounding success as TLJ was, I didn't begin playing 
 it expecting Dreamfall to be as good. Rather, I tried to the best of my ability to approach it 
 as just another adventure game, and judge it on its own, not by any lack in relation to TLJ.
  
  The sound were amazing. Voice acting, ambient sounds, background music - it was all top of 
 the class. Beautifully done, and perfectly fitting in with the current mood and theme of the story, 
 giving exactly the kind of subtle hints that enhances your playing experience without drawing too 
 much attention to the music on the expense of the story. I don't really have much more to say about 
 the sounds. 'Perfect' pretty much sums it up.
  
  The story is good too, and for as long as it lasts, I'd say it's on level with TLJ. It's very well 
 tied in with the puzzles and action sequences, although I agree with those who wants more of the 
 adventure part - puzzles and searching - and less of the cinematics and cut scenes.
  
  I said that the story is great, for as long as it lasts. This is because this game stops abruptly, 
 with little to no indication that it's moving towards the end, and leaves you stumped and wanting 
 for more. I don't think I've ever seen a more obvious 'To be continued' label on a game, and as 
 someone commented on the forums, a good game cannot have a 'To be continued'. Granted, we understand 
 that there is to be a followup to this game, but the least that can be expected of any game, is 
 that it can be played as a standalone game. The end Dreamfall makes this difficult, if not impossible. 
 If anyone who has played Dreamfall was not disappointed by the way the game ended, I would very 
 much like to meet him, because I think he is part of a very small minority.
  
  The story of Zo is more or less wrapped up. It could be forgiven that the game ends as it does 
 if she was the only playable character. However, you also play two other characters, whose fates 
 are unresolved at best. A quick summary of the situation as the game ends regarding the three playable 
 characters are: One "dead", one imprisoned, one in a coma that she's supposedly never going to 
 wake from. If Funcom wanted this kind of ending, they'd be better off with just having Zo as a 
 playable character, to keep the players from identifying too much with the other two. And as if 
 that wasn't enough to keep as all in suspense until the next game is released, the very last thing 
 they do before cutting to the credits, is to show us that the bad guys seems to have won. If they'd 
 just gone with just having an unfinished character story, or an unfinished general storyline, then 
 the game would have been if not great, then at least a lot better. However, when they neglect both 
 to finish the stories of the characters in a believable way, as well as not bothering to finish 
 the general story, then the bottom of this game falls out.
  
  It's fun to play while it lasts, but it is over way too soon, and the end is so irritating it takes 
 away most of the joy you had while you were playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 23, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Well first, if you look at my attribute ratings, I totally dogged the gameplay with a 3. The game-play 
 was virtually non-existent. A few scattered puzzles here and there with an occasional mad-dash 
 to safety. For those who played TLJ, the game-play in that game progresses throughout the story 
 in intensity, frequency and complexity. Now neither of these games are meant to be Myst, but TLJ 
 had far better game-play than DF. DF was more of an interactive movie, becoming moreso as the game 
 progressed in contrast to its predecessor.
  
  As for the story, it was certainly very interesting and intriguing. However, I'm sure that there 
 are many here who are as disappointed as me in the ending. In fact, I was shocked by it. That's 
 fine that a game leaves some cliffhangers and unanswered questions for the sequel. But, c'mon, 
 there was practically nothing answered by the end of the game. Now, thinking back on TLJ, which 
 I played a couple of years ago so the mind's fuzzy, I can make some assumptions, such as about 
 April and Kian. (Not going to give anything away to those who haven't played yet.) What's up with 
 Westhouse? As for Zoe, well who knows what's going on with her - absolutely no closure there.
 
  
  Anyway, this is a review so I'll continue in that vein. The graphics and sound are rock solid in 
 Dreamfall. In fact, the soundtrack is excellent, bringing the appropriate mood and the right moments. 
 A couple of cheesy songs here and there, but so be it. (The game lends itself to the females though 
 I enjoy it all the same as a male) My reviewer's tilt is very high to give the game credit for 
 story and production value. I'm glad I played this game despite the frustration. It was great to 
 be reacquainted with many of the old characters from TLJ, especially Crow - one of the best and 
 funniest sidekicks in the gaming world. I guess you could say Crow was left hanging out dry here 
 too.
  
  The game was obviously a setup for another sequel or possibly final game in a trilogy. Sort of 
 an "Empire Strikes Back" for the TLJ series, wherein that movie and Dreamfall basically have no 
 tight conclusion. I recommend this game, but keep in mind that is in no way near as fulfilling 
 at the first game. However, that may be by design. This game does make you think. In fact, it begs 
 one to revisit the first game to answer some questions and predict what may come. With that in 
 mind, Dreamfall could be a work of genius, meaning my "decent" rating will be a misrepresentation. 
 However, regardless of how things turn out with the sequel and the overall story, there is one 
 MAJOR flaw with this game - and that is poor game-play. I hope the developers realize this flaw 
 next time out - that all these elements are needed to make a great game - a game such as "The Longest 
 Journey".
  
  In closing, I'd say that this "game" would have been better served as a movie to bridge a gap between 
 two games. I'm glad a "played" it, but I could have just "watched" it, which is practically what 
 one does in this "game". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myhouseonthesun
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 22, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  It stinks that I have to give Dreamfall: The Longest Journey anything less than a perfect score. 
 Im an avid gamer who absolutely loves adventure games (yea, I beat 3 of the 5 Mysts) and was 
 giddy with excitement when I heard whispers of this games triumphant return to the PC. 
  
  Could it be? A sequel to The Longest Journeythe story that single-handedly turned me on to adventure 
 games, surely it must be amazing after nearly six years (Flash! days later) dang. 
  
  Now dont interpret my gloomy tone as a warning to stay the heck away, far from it. Dreamfall has 
 many great qualities, which Ill only briefly touch base on, however, Im writing this review just 
 how The Don himself cares to read it, The Godfather wishes to hear bad news immediately. 
  
  Dreamfall has a wonderful score of music, ambient sounds and voice matching. Slap on your nice 
 headphones or crank up that ol` Bose Stereo System you have lying around, and trust me, youre 
 golden. Accompanied with some snappy tunes, the graphics are amazing, stable and most importantly 
 constant. All too often you can tell when the animators have just run out of gas, Dreamfalls team 
 has clearly taken its time (again, 6 years!) . Finally, the characters are both interesting and 
 loveable, or hate-able, if you dig the bad guys. These things, to me, give the game a solid enough 
 foundation to at least give it a try. 
  
  Now the bad stuff. 
  
  Its a little presumptuous for a game that can be, as some would say, Owned in eleven hours to 
 call itself The Longest Journey. Now, granted, I know my way around the keyboard, and my pals 
 at the Psychology Department where I attend college would say that I have pretty decent logic and 
 spatial reasoning skills, however, the difference between me and, lets say, your  
 would add up to no more than +/- 1 hour of game time. Alternatively, it takes a pretty great story 
 for you to beg for more. Without spoiling the climax of a triple-threat ending, it leaves you somewhat 
 confused when the credits start rolling, almost a lack of closure. 
  
  What happened to this person?
  Are they OK?
  Wait, Wait, Wait, did they make it?
  I 
 thoughtwaitthey said thatwhat?!
  
  The puzzles in this game are pretty fun, but sometimes I needed to call up my cousin, have him 
 put down his fifth grade homework and ask him; What do I do with these two halves of a broken 
 key and a locked door? Pardon my sarcasm, but the lack of violence and rapid action needs to be 
 supplemented with challenging puzzles that make you use cumulative knowledge gained from whole 
 adventure, and not just the three interactive items at-hand. 
  
  And if this rant werent rant-laden enough, I have one more beef. Dreamfall: The Longest Journey 
 has absolutely zero replay value. While there are opportunities to choose responses in conversation 
 as Hostel or Neutral or Friendly the only difference is the other persons immediate response, 
 but it in no way effects the outcome of the game. And once youre done, its either in that pile 
 of games youll never touch again, or up on Amazon. com so fast, your mortarboards will spin (assuming 
 youve just graduated, and are still wearing one)
  
  So yea, go and get it, play it at your leisure, have a little fun, listen to a pretty entertaining 
 tale that goes from the future to the pseudo-middle ages in the blink of an eye. Just for your 
 own sake, dont expect half as much as I did, or youll write exactly 610 words complaining about 
 it. 
  
  Brad Says: C+
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectricBlue17
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall is the sequel to what many gamers call the greatest adventure game of all time, The Longest 
 Journey. Dreamfall picks up ten years after "The Collapse" that takes place at the end of TLJ. 
 It would be easy to expect Dreamfall to be a fan-service laden romp through The Longest Journey 
 with better graphics, but as it turns out, that's not entirely true.
  
  Sure, Dreamfall does visit some familiar locales and some of the characters from the original game 
 make an appearance but the game is actually focused on an entirely new character, Zoe Castillo.
 
  
  Zoe starts the game in a similar position as April did. She is a college drop out who isn't really 
 sure what she wants to do with her life. She has broken up with her boyfriend who she remains friends 
 with and lives at home with her father in Casablanca. The game starts out normal enough but then 
 a meeting with the former boyfriend sends things into motion.
  
  All of the voice acting in Dreamfall is very good. You can tell they really concentrated on finding 
 quality voice talent as this was a major strength of the original game. The graphics are good, 
 not next gen or astounding, but they are superior to most adventure games. The sound effects are 
 done well and do a good job of setting the mood, as does the music soundtrack that hits the notes 
 at just the right times.
  
  Everything sounds great about Dreamfall with just two minor exceptions, and both are the flaws 
 that haunt most adventure games. Dreamfall's gameplay is a little on the slim side. Most of the 
 game involves finding the right pieces and putting them together or sneaking around, none of it 
 is really challenging or new to anyone. The only real difficulty is knowing what you should be 
 doing.
  
  The second problem is the ending. The game starts at the ending with Zoe lying in a hospital bed 
 in a coma not knowing if she is alive or dead. When it revisits the ending at the end of the game 
 they show the boyfriend who's safety was a major concern throughout the game but leave the question 
 of his being alive or dead somewhat ambigious without ever tying up that loose end. Also what is 
 the 'undreaming' mentioned early and late in the game? Who was the lady in white talking to the 
 young child? All are questions never answered. 
  
  Ragnar Tournquist has said in his blog that he fully intends to tie up all of the loose ends with 
 a third and final TLJ game. At least we can rest easy and look forward to another quality TLJ adventure 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihaveaps3
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 23, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I can't stop playing this game because it just keeps getting better!
  A real classic of is own! Well worth the buy and I am sure I'll come back for more even after I'll 
 be done with! 
  Why? Because it's turn out to one my favorite movie and adventure game!
  
  And I know that with the success of Dreamfall, game developers will take more consideration 
 and put an even more spectacular adventure games along the way! I love the characters and how you 
 came to know them more deeply!
  Ok, now if you like games with amazing physics where you can move anything or jump over anything 
 this game will not have it!
  But maybe there will be more story adventure games like in the long run! 
  Kinda like GTA: San 
 Andreas or GTA: Vice City
  with amazing characters and free-will but story goal oriented!
  
  Luv ya and thanks for checking this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is the follow up to the acclaimed game, The Longest Journey. This 
 time though, you play through the eyes of three different protagonists, April Ryan, Zoe Castillo 
 and Kian the Apostle. You start the game as Zoe Castillo, a twenty-something old girl that has 
 no direction in life. A college dropout and unemployed, Zoe sits around the house becoming a shell 
 of her former self.
  
  Things start to get interesting for Zoe when she meets up with a former lover and current friend, 
 Reza. Reza is an underground reporter who is involved with a big story that he is trying to finish. 
 He seems to be in trouble, but cannot complete, because he has to go underground. He asks Zoe to 
 pickup a package for him from a company downtown because the heat is on him. She agrees and gets 
 thrusted into a story that will take her to Arcadia and Stark several times.
  
  April does show up in the game but she is a shell of her former self. After finding out that she 
 was not the guardian, she became lost in life and in the end became trapped in Arcadia due to losing 
 the power of shifting between worlds. Her character has changed and you can see the young innocent 
 girl from the first game is long gone. Now she is battle hardened and full of anger. She has become 
 a freedom fighter, but gets intertwined into the story when Zoe shows up in Arcadia.
  
  Kian is the enigma of the story. He is a soldier from the east. His people has taken over most 
 of Arcadia and with it have brought their religion and prejudices towards magical characters. He 
 finds an internal struggle that tries to rationalize what his people do to others.
  
  The story for Dreamfall is well written and will get you into the game is a quick heartbeat. It 
 makes you think and offers a lot of details on the world that we left ten years ago. Many characters 
 are revisited from the first game and it would be wise to play through the first game to get a 
 feel for where all these people come from and how they all knew April Ryan. The game makes the 
 most of the source material and gives you a vibrant world to explore and move forward in. You will 
 find no faults with most of the story and the directions it takes you in, but more on that later.
 
  
  Graphics are just astounding. The main characters are so intricately modeled. Zoe has a face that 
 is full of life and depression at the same time. Her moods are captured in a way that I have not 
 seen in a game in quite some time. The eye movements, gestures and facial emotions are stunning 
 and give you a personal connection and you get attached to her. You want her to succeed, since 
 the game starts with Zoe, lying in a bed in a coma. You want to see why she is in that coma and 
 if there is a way to save her from that fate. April and Kian also are given this treatment and 
 it really does help with them portraying their feelings. The rest of the models are good, but do 
 not have the detail put into them. 
  
  The locations that you visit are full of details and look beautiful. A lot went into making the 
 world look alive and stunning. Running the game on a loaded box and at 1920x1200 resolution helps 
 the game look vibrant. Low powered rigs can scale down the details, but you will notice the difference.
 
  
  Sounds are good and the voice overs are again top notch. The same people have returned to voice 
 over their previous parts. Some of the voices are done by the same people and you can hear tones 
 of familiarity between their characters. But the main characters do have a good sound and feel 
 like they are in to the parts they are playing. Ambient music is also good and warrants a soundtrack 
 separate from the game. There are a few songs in the game that were catchy and will make you search 
 the credits for who performed them. Sound effects are a mixed bag. Most sounds were good, but some 
 things seemed a bit off. Nothing detrimental, but I would say that a tad bit of time could have 
 been used to spruce up the details on the sound effects.
  
  There are a few issues that you may have with the game. For one, combat rears its head in this 
 game. When you go to play an adventure game, the last thing you want to see is combat. And while 
 the combat is not all that difficult, it is something that would have been better suited as being 
 optional. It really did not need to be in the game, because it did not enhance the game in any 
 way. Some clipping appears here and there, but is not a huge issue. The biggie comes with the ending. 
 No spoilers here, but be prepared to be confused and angry at the same time. It is enjoyable, but 
 just flat out confusing and no sense of closure occurs. It does leave the game hugely open for 
 a follow up game.
  
  Dreamfall will leave an impression on you. It is a game of wonder and amazement and does follow 
 up it predecessor quite nicely. While it could have been a bit longer and given a better sense 
 of closure, the graphics and storyline will more than sate you appetite for stunning and enjoyable 
 adventure games. It is definitely a buy for the PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: medrad1
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Afterthoughts:
  ----------------------------------------------------------
  In an interesting move, Funcom seems to have decided that Dreamfall, the sequel to The Longest 
 Journey, shouldn't be so much a game as an interactive story. It is an approach that is sure to 
 infuriate those who enjoy The Longest Journey's typical adventure game get-combine-give-use item 
 mentality, but for those of us who were taken in by the plot, Dreamfall's lack of gameplay is easily 
 dismissed. Furthermore, once you come to terms with the game it not only does it entertain, but 
 leaves you thinking about faith and other metaphysical questions. 
  
  At times the games seems self-aware of the non-game path it has taken and tries to overcorrect 
 it by adding some simple puzzles and fighting. Fortunately, most of the time the puzzles and fighting 
 fit into the game and plot nicely and do not feel forced. 
  
  This game is worth buying at least for its status as a wonder piece of science fiction. Any fan 
 of the Half-Life 2 story line should check this game out while waiting for the next installment 
 of that series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aehalz
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  So, this game is alright. I do not like the cumbersome paths you have to take to get in and out 
 of the game, especially to the main menu. And all of those waits watching the vortex swirl while 
 changing scenes, very boring and you would think that in this day and age they could do something 
 about it. The puzzles are good, love the voices of the characters and that monster, WOW!!! set 
 me back in my chair a couple of times let me tell you. Worth the price of admission but please...... 
 how about some more speed in the transitions? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dajastacka
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Ze who just is an normal teenagers with big life problems, begins to get visions about saving 
 April Ryan. In meanwhile her best friend disappear. She begins so to find him. Because she thinks 
 something terrible has happened. 
  
  She will find a truth, she never thought was possible (that it exists two world; one with magic, 
 and one with science) and she finds out that she is the one who has to fulfil prophetic. 
  
  However, in her own world a corporation creates a system that makes people to decide what to 
 dream and make the dreams seems real.
  The problem is that somebody gets all of the information about the dreams of the people who use 
 this system. Now is he the one who have to stop them from publishing this system.
  
  This one of the best game I ever played. It has very good 3D graphic, and has a very good story.
 
  
  Why do I think this one of the best adventure games ever? It's because the game has an extremely 
 good story, and because the game is so easy. Because of that, you never have to look into a guide, 
 ever! 
  
  I think the voice in the game is very good, and it's has some funny jokes if you talk to some people.
 
  
  However, the game has some bad sides I think. The controlling system is very hard, and it's lots 
 of things that are missing in the history of the Dream-fall: the longest journey. Example: what 
 happened to April Ryan after she felled out in the swamp, after being hurt by a spear? What about 
 the war in the magic world? The answer is: no one now!
  
  But I think all of you guys should try the demo of this game. If you like the demo, then buy the 
 game!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolasgarett
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 20, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Sorry guys Cannot agree with the majority of people here.
  
  Dreamfall is a good adventure game but I am not satisfied with just a good adventure game coming 
 on the heels of The Longest Journey.
  
  This game does not work for 4 reasons:-
  
  1) It comes after Longest Journey and is not even a pale shadow of its predecessor.
  
  2) Its 
 too short ---It falls as soon as you start to dream.
  
  3) You don't get steeped in the atmosphere.
  
  4) Apart from Zoe you do not connect with any 
 one of the other characters.
  
  Graphics are beautiful and solid, interface is nice too, even the sound is robust but the story 
 too short and as soon as you are beginning to enjoy the whole experience -----it ends.
  
  I am feeling let down because I hoped so much and I got quite less.
  
  The worst part was distributing 
 game time between three characters. The designers should have just concentrated on Zoe and made 
 the chapters more immersive and the story a little longer.
  
  Forgive me if I am being a little harsh on a good adventure game because they are a dying genre 
 nowadays but I never ever said wow! or awesome! even once and the fault does not lie in the game 
 but the very fact that it follows the footsteps of the finest adventure game ever made till now, 
 which I have not only played time and again despite its linearity but because its a story worth 
 reading forever until dreamfall.
  
  Anyways happens ----hope we get a better game later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARIC
Rating: 6
Date: May 15, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  TLJ was as many have said before, one of the best adventure games ever. I can't believe how far 
 this sequel has fallen. This game had very good voice acting, adequate graphics, and terrible gameplay. 
 Aside from the constant retracing of your steps (meanwhile putting up with multiple load screens) , 
 the terrible camera control, and the absolutely despicable fighting / sneaking aspect of the game, 
 Dreamfall was for me - simply boring. And that is the worst sin a game can commit. The opening 
 in Casablanca seemed to hold promise - it had that open, cosmopolitan feel that I loved about TLJ. 
 But then the rest of the game was spent wandering through stereotypical Roleplaying/Sci-Fi locales 
 completing predictable, dull little chores. I personally don't mind extended dialogue (in fact 
 I found that the most interesting aspect of the game) and yes, the story was intriguing. But after 
 such a long wait, Dreamfall fails so miserably as a GAME that it can only be considered a major 
 disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miladasadi
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for dreamfall for years expecting a great game as TLJ but I got realy depressed. many 
 say the story is great but referring to complicated and endless story but I don't see a very great 
 one. being complicated is nice but not TOO MUCH!
  graphics were good ofcourse not great comparing games like oblivion!
  but music is masterpiece 
 and voice is great.
  I don't want to talk about gameplay which doesn't have any good thing at all and many have complained 
 about it. for sure a better gameplay would make it much more involving like great TLJ!
  finally I hope there will be a sequel which wraps up story ,if not I am really sorry for Ranger! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sooske_pa_talay
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 14, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  im just finished this game ...10 minutes ago...
  
  you wanna know what did i do??
  when i see the casting i press alt+f4 go to my computer and shift+delete the directory of this 
 game 
  you want to know why???
  **** 
  god thing goes fine untill the ending..... what happend ????
  they just wanted to finished dont 
 know how
  they start goood , in the middle was dissapointing....... and the last 3-4 hours of the game was 
 just Amazing .... i was too excited ..... i was saying to myself .... well at least funcom is doing 
 good now.... we can forget the gameplay ..... this is amazing presentation ... amazing story .... but 
 then they **** up everything.... and i mean everything!!!!!
  ladies and gentleman .... adventure players.... Rememeber this.... adventure genre is DEAD ... 
 finished .... go find yourself another entertainment ..... you cant hold on on these games anymore
 
  god..... when i remeber the grim fandango .... monkey island series and .... , i start crying..... 
 im very sorry for the young ppl who liked adventure games.... dont play these game .... dont ever 
 think about it.
  i thought the story is goood but the ending **** up everythings . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 13, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  First, the good stuff. Dreamfall is a very beautiful game. Great characters, great story (except 
 at the end) , beautiful graphics and soundtracks... literally a dream for fan of adventure games. 
 The game also work without problems (never crashed, unlike its predecessor: The Longest Journey) .
 
  
  Second, the stuff that could have been better but does not alter the experience. The controls are 
 somewhat weird. The mouse is pretty useless. You do not have full control of the camera, which 
 would have been great, since the landscape are breathtaking. It would also have helped if users 
 could customize the control the way they want. The camera can be moved with the right thumbstick, 
 but it's PS2 style. If you are used to an XBox way of controlling the camera, you will have some 
 difficulty to adapt to the game (in fact, I was never able to really adapt to the camera control) . 
 We should had the possibility of at least inverting the left-right camera movement. The game is 
 also very easy. Not much of a challenge.
  
  Third, the bad stuff. This game is like a TV soap. There is no ending. The game leaves you with 
 the definite, bad taste of sequel... And frankly, I despise companies that do that. At least, they 
 should have put a warning on the box saying "Part I". With a TV soap, you know there is going to 
 be a sequel (and you don't pay much) . With a game that you pay 70$, you expect an ending... and 
 preferably a good one. Not one that leaves you a bad taste in your mouth. In fact, the ending is 
 pretty depressing... Way to go Tornquist... I'll think twice before buying the sequel (I'll make 
 sure I won't spend more than 10 hours of play just to be depressed at the end) .
  
  Last note, before playing the game, you should play the Longest Journey first. It's going to help 
 put things into perspective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mageborn23
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 13, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  I have just finished Dreamfall and let me tell you it is one of the most touching and amazing games 
 i have played in a long time. The story to this game is remarkable. The characters in this game 
 are just so real, now that it's over i don't know what to do. i'm lost without it, that's how good 
 this game is. Play it. You won't regret it. If you haven't played the first game in the series 
 you should also pick that up, i played that before i started this game and believe me you'll love 
 seeing the characters and places you went to in the first game in this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zubair_Ahmed
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 12, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game though but the ending really surprised me, Anyhow all n all game was superb they 
 links previous charactors with new charactors which is something make person to play this game 
 ,They made some fighting in game so people never bored with story line.
  Well speaking of first part which is lot better then this they missed and did very silly mistakes 
 in this part, for example they failed to produce the proper ending and the modern scince things 
 sucks.
  Well lets see if they store another one in the series for us :) hopefully they do because it can't 
 make any of the ense at ending 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slivanus99
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 12, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This game besides the combat engine started out very good. But pls don't play this if you want 
 to have any fulfillment at the end. You wil be very mad at the half a## job they did ending the 
 game. It just stops well short of explaining anything!!! DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! If you would like 
 to play a really good Adv game go play Grim Fandango. It was made it the time of real Adv game. 
 But if you must play this game pls only rent it or you will be very mad at yourself and the game 
 makers if you pay more than 10$ for it. And in hopes one day they will make a game worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoodleNeko
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 12, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  It has been a little over two years since I first picked up The Longest Journey at Target for $10. 
 When I found out that they were coming out with a sequel (about a week after I finished TLJ, two 
 years ago) I immediately tried to pre-order it. As you can see, I had a long wait ahead of me.
 
  
  I have to say that this game was absolutely worth the wait. Although there are some slight let-downs 
 as far as gameplay goes, the story is well worth putting up with a few tiny let-downs. The weaving 
 of the story in this exceptional story will take your breath away. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll 
 get angry. It's everything you hope to see in a great adventure game. There are twists and turns 
 that will leave you wondering what is going to happen next, and the end will leave you begging 
 for more.
  
  Even with it's small draw-backs as far as gameplay, and the open ending that leaves you with almost 
 more questions than answers, this is an exciting and worthwhile game! The characters and the story's 
 multi-level depth are undefeated in my opinion.
  
  Absolutely worth a two year wait! Way to go, FunCom and Congratulations to Ragnar Tornquist for 
 an amazing and enjoyable 10 hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSpitFire3x
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall can't be compared to the original with its original concepts and ideas but it does bring 
 along it's own unique story to compliment the Longest Journey.
  
  Story:
  It follows The Longest Journey and keeps the Arcadia and Stark world theme going but introduces 
 the power of Dreams into what can be turned into a Religious/faith/spiritual storyline and journey 
 that made the 1st one and Dreamfall so special and deep. The characters are very rich and the story 
 itself i wont go into that much as to not ruin the amazing plot that makes me miss the old Adventure 
 games even more!
  
  Graphics:
  It doesn't manage to be on the top of todays standards but remember the company is working on a 
 very small budget and some of the things they've accomplished is phenominal. Some of the bump texturing 
 for the wood, wetness, and stone and the use of lighting made me just stare at my monitor for a 
 few minutes admiring the Envriomental Beauty. If there is one thing this game does perfectly it's 
 bringing the visions of the writer/director of the game to life with all the smallest touches to 
 make the game really suck you into the world, it's just so well done in that aspect.
  
  Gameplay:
  Very old school adventure, its more of a story where there is alot of dialogue but 
 depending on your preference you have alot of options to make the conversations lengthy and make 
 each character seem deep or just pick the important questions and move the story along at a faster 
 pace. The puzzles i have to say were a little two easy but some of the new things such as fighting 
 and stealth, while not perfect, have their purpose and really make that scene in the game feel 
 more real with out turning it into a FMV. Overall the game controls good with the camera being 
 alittle shaky at times but with some quick mouse sensativity adjustments it works like a charm.
 
  
  Sound: 
  This is another one of Dreamfalls biggest strong points with some of the best music i've heard 
 in games that fits each world and place perfectly. There is a mixture of both lyrical songs, and 
 the ending song is just incredible and memorable, and orchestra driven soundtracks that fit for 
 the occasion. Even the small scenes of traveling to another location have songs that feel like 
 they fit into a movie that sets the tone and emotions perfectly.
  
  A Side Note:
  Dreamfall and the Longest Journey are one of the few rare adventure games that have deep and rich 
 stories that used to be found in earlier times of gaming, its excedingly hard to find a good adventure 
 game that has a story and feel like Dreamfall and The Longest Journey.
  If you miss these types of games i really hope you buy Dreamfall and support the small company 
 that works on these games with Funcom and help them so they can create the 3rd installment in The 
 Longest Journey Series. The writer and director plans on creating a third game and i pray he does, 
 it's the sales, though, that determine how long we have to wait till it can be made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitanExtremer
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  im not going deeper into the game in this review, i am simply as a gamer whos played just about 
 every adventure game for the last 19 years, going to tell you my opinion about this game, and i 
 must admit, Im at a loss of words. I have never in my life played such a buitefull, charming, loving, 
 deep, and very emotional Adventure game. The Story is Adictive, the grafics are great, and the 
 sound and music sound track is fantastic. Normally, i am very critic but i must take a bow. I have 
 no critic for this game at all. Its Fantastic absolutly fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathail
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are outstanding. Each setting is very distinctive, from the clean streets of Casablanca 
 to the run down streets of Marcuria. The decay of Venice hits especially hard for players of the 
 first game, The Longest Journey.
  
  The sound and voice are extremely well done, the music is excellent, especially some of the ending 
 music, adding a great deal to the emotions the story is quite succesfully trying to evoke.
  
  The story, well, what can I say to do it justice? As with TLJ, I can't wait for the next installment.
 
  
  The combat provides an interesting diversion to the running about. Much more however and it could 
 have gotten a bit tedious and distracting.
  
  My one complaint is there are long conversations where the player can do nothing. It would have 
 been nice if this had been broken up a bit more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeeEsPee
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 7, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Well I finished this a few days after it was released and decided to write the review while its 
 still fresh in memory. I was expecting a little more from a Dreamfall game yet in the end it delivered 
 in most fields.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  The last one being an adventure game, I wasn't expecting any kind of battle system originally. 
 It delivers in the adventure aspect to an extent, though it becomes much easier then you're typical 
 adventure game. The Battle system is very flawed and broken, it feels boring and unneccesary. Indigo 
 Prophecy did battles in a neat way, though it was like alot of the game, having to press buttons 
 at certain times to perform actions. 
  
  Dreamfall would have had a much better battle system, had the battles been in a sort of cinematic 
 where you don't control the character, but you hit certain buttons at the right time to succeed 
 with an action. Like previously stated, the adventure element still exists, but its much simpler.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10 
  
  This game shines, even on normal settings on my outdated PC, it looked beautiful. Many areas have 
 very large immersive landscapes, the water shines, the buildings and everything are just plain 
 awesome looking. You can walk through some areas, then you stop to look at how cool everything 
 looks. Graphics was one thing the developers did really well in this game. Other PC games might 
 have vastly superior graphics, but these are still way more then decent.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The first game I know of to support 7.1 surround, though my 2 speakers did well too. It may 
 not have too many very memorable tracks, but all the voice acting is done amazingly well, no out 
 of place odd voices anywhere. The music sounds beautiful but it doesn't seem to play a major roll 
 at many points in the game. Its preety much flawless every which way.
  
  Value: 9/10 
  
  Well, its roughly 10 hours long, I guess most people could just give it a rent. Its got an 
 amazing story and its told very well, the only thing lacking is the battle system.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  In the end, I loved the game. Along the way, it felt like it was missing the 
 Longest Journey touch, but by the end the story all comes together from what would be expected 
 from a sequel to the original. 
  
  I enjoyed The Longest Journey, quite a bit more then this, but in a different way. If you don't 
 mind a broken battle system this adventure will be one you won't soon forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allan_delacruz
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 7, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  I absolutely loved the first one because the story was one of the best I've ever experienced. 
 
  
  First, I just want to say, I did like the game, and it was worth the money. My original hype was 
 overrated and let me tell you why. The story evolved but ended too fast: The fighting was pointless, 
 the puzzles thoughtless. It was like watching a 20-hour long movie (with a good storyline) . 
  
  The positive about the game is that it is definitely immersive and addicting for the most part. 
 It grows better and better until it just cuts to the end really fast.
  
  Basically its a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheN00binator
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 6, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Although I only first played it recently, I'm a huge fan of the original game, The Longest Journey. 
 So hearing a sequel was coming out so soon after i'd played the game was great to hear. After playing 
 Dreamfall though, the honest truth is that The Longest Journey was MUCH better. It isnt a bad game, 
 it just fails at delivering an experience anything like the original.
  
  The first thing to remember while playing Dreamfall, is that you need to focus on the story. Because 
 if you lose track of whats going on, all you've got is the gameplay - and there isnt much of it. 
 You'll spend most of your time watching cutscenes rather than walking around and doing stuff. This 
 is, in a way, both good and bad. Its good because the game has a fantastic story, so the cutscenes 
 are interesting and enlightening. Its bad because it CAN make you a little bored, and your fingers 
 will twitch toward your right mouse button probably more than once to skip through what people 
 are saying. "People" talk a lot in dreamfall. Some conversations can last more than 20 minutes 
 (I jest you not) . But if you can appreciate a great story, and dont mind watching and listening, 
 this shouldn't be much of a problem.
  
  As I said earlier the gameplay is a minor part of the game, and strangely, seems like an afterthought. 
 To be honest, this game would have better as an animated movie. The story is obviously the focus 
 of the game, the actual gameplay is poor on its own, so why make it a game at all?
  Basically, the parts of the game when you have control of the character usually involve walking 
 through one linear path to the next. You dont do much in terms of adventuring, because its not 
 very often that you have to pick up an object and combine it with another, or find an object in 
 the environment, like classic adventure games make you do all the time.
  
  Dreamfall also incorporates a fighting system. During about 4 parts of the game, you will have 
 to fight off some enemies - and the fighting system, for want of a better word, sucks. Its unresponsive, 
 its difficult to hit anything, its slow, its limited, and its boring. In fact, its so bad, if they 
 took it out of the game, I would add an entire point to my score, making it 8.1, because the fighting 
 system is the worst fighting system ever made on any game, ever. Period. So its a good job that 
 you only fight easy enemies, it doesnt happen very often, and its over pretty quick.
  
  So, what do I think of this game in one paragraph? It needs a lot of work gameplay-wise. But if 
 you can just forget all that, and concentrate on the story, you can get very immersed in this game, 
 and will want to 'play' it until the end. The ending leaves an opening for an expansion pack too 
 - but I wont be one of the people who buy it when its released. I like a great story as much as 
 the next guy, but I also want to actually DO something during the course of a game. And those silly 
 fight scenes NEED to go. Until these things are ironed out, im afraid The Longest Journey will 
 remain incomplete, because im not buying another sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonte187
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 6, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I played the first game and thought the story and puzzles was really good, in this game the story 
 was good but what happened to the puzzles. Puzzles is one of the most important ingredient in every 
 adventure game but when its gone i don't think it can be called a game anymore. Ok it was some 
 puzzles but of course very easy and didn't take long time to solve.
  
  The story is the only thing that makes you want to finish the game, its very compelling. But even 
 this has it shortcomings its very much talk and doesn't help you solve any problems. If you want 
 to complete the game in record time just skip the conversations and you will probably shorten the 
 game with 10 hours. But if you do so you will miss a good story.
  
  I cant say the graphic and sound was extraordinary but it did its job, good voice-acting and nice 
 environments but the music was a little corny.
  
  As i said the few puzzles cant convince me that this was a game more than it was a very long movie. 
 But i had a lot of fun "playing" it and that must be the most deciding thing for me to tilt it 
 to a good game. And i am Swedish so its often hard to give credit to Norwegians but they did a 
 good job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibrahimbilal
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 6, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  It is the most breath taking and emotional game ive ever played. It has got quality graphics, purely 
 realistic emotions and accents for the characters. The game is awesome but the story is a bit incomplete, 
 rather very incomplete. One thing i hated about it was the tragedic end.... i was really depressed 
 after meeting with such ending and nothing could soothe me. The game is very involving. The story 
 is the above all, very emotional and unique story... believe me. I could have never imagined such 
 a great story. 
  Playing with 3 characters with different personalities, accents and emotions is really great feeling. 
 i played this for about 30 hours continuously and i lost ma appetite.... its is such an addictive 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r0r
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 5, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  A sequel to one of the most highly regarded adventure games of all time, Dreamfall: The Longest 
 Journey does not disappoint. Quite simply, the story is brilliant. It is hard to find originality 
 these days and dreamfall has it in spades. The story will have you attempting to figure out what 
 will happen next, only to surprise you at every turn.
  
  Much of the original cast from The Longest Journey makes an appearance here, including April Ryan 
 who is now one of three playable characters. You will spend most of your time as Zoe Castillo - 
 an instantly likable yet directionless young girl desperately seeking something more out of life 
 as she travels all over this world, and beyond.
  
  Much has been said about the ending and how it leaves some things unresolved. While it does leave 
 a few unresolved questions, so did Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back. Dreamfall too is the middle 
 chapter in a story, and much like Empire, when you are done with it, you will find you want to 
 discuss all that has happened and all that you think will happen. Something that keeps people talking 
 is the mark of great art.
  
  If Dreamfall had one negative, it would be the combat. All good adventure games are light on combat, 
 as it should be. Sometimes combat is necessary and even a good thing. Thankfully Dreamfall has 
 very little combat, and once you get used to it, it's not difficult, but at first it is rather 
 clunky. Beyond that, i found the PC interface to be wonderful. The simple and intuitive inventory 
 (press tab and then the familiar wsad keys to maneuver) is quite nice. The movement controls took 
 a few minutes to get used to, but once i inverted the x-axis (as with most games) so that left 
 actually moved left and right, right, i never even thought about it again. The inclusion of what 
 they call a "focus field" is very handy too. It lets you scan an area and sometimes interact with 
 things from afar. Quite useful when you would like to eavesdrop on a conversation or view something 
 from a distance.
  
  While adventure games have never been about graphics, they shine in Dreamfall. You will be constantly 
 amazed at the beautiful locales. Equally impressive is the soundtrack. It is expressive and perfect 
 for each area. Of particular note is one lyrical song near the end. You will know which i mean 
 when you hear it.
  
  In the end, Dreamfall is alot like an interactive movie. Imagine watching your favorite movie if 
 you could choose how the characters responded. Pretty cool, right? If you miss the classic adventure 
 game days of Lucasarts (Grim Fandango, Sam & Max Hit The Road) and Sierra (King's Quest, Leisure 
 Suit Larry) you owe it to yourself to get this game. It is an instant-classic. Even if you don't 
 remember those games, you owe it to yourself to not miss one of the best story experiences you'll 
 ever find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  It's very nice game i like some changes of interface brought to adventure games (much easier to 
 find some objects no need to move cursor on whole screen to find) instant findings ,maybe is reason 
 to be very easy to play. also very nice 3d graphic with shaders fx technology.
  Looks in some parts like Tomb Raider .
  New combat features very nice.
  I had little problems 
 with drivers but omega nvidia pack 66. xx version does the answer for it.
  Bad thing is very short for dvd cuz i recently played Scratches (1cd) and and seems to be equal 
 time to finish it.
  Also someone already in reviews told that is some boring part of game particulary in medieval city 
 where you must walk "left -right" in city couple of times in order to complete 1 task. 
  Sometimes are very childlish dialogues.
  All in all good game but maybe for beginers in this 
 genre not for someone who has played Longest Journey before or similar games like Syberia ...
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Measter_mike
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  
  Dreamfall; The Longest Journey (Made by Norwegian FUNCOM) is one of the best adventure games today. 
 The Graphics are good (not perfect, but much better then acceptable) , the Story is thrilling and 
 the Characters are great!
  
  There are some restrictions as to where you can move, which does annoy me a little, but after you 
 get used to the strange controls, it's no problem anymore.
  
  I did experience a few glitches during my play, but nothing big, and you forget about them pretty 
 soon.
  
  The Great thing about this game is off course the story, dialog and characters. I found myself 
 just sitting there and laughing many times during the play.
  
  The puzzles are not really that hard, but the game really relies on you know what to do, since 
 it doesn't alway tell you exactly where to go, which is good since you get to explore a lot.
  
  Loved the game, and I'm hoping for a new one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nandobcf
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 4, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  They should make a movie about this game. The story is amazing!!
  I havn't played a game with such quality storytelling since... The longest Journey 1.
  
  Graphics 
 and sounds are also top notch. And it is so nice to explore the same places you've been before 
 in The Longest Journey 1. It all looks so believable and nostalgic in 3D.
  
  But you really don't need to have played the first one to play Dreamfall, since the main character 
 herself is also trying to understand what has happened before. Knowing the story of the first game 
 is more like a bonus in this one.
  
  I just won't give it a 10 because of the consolish controls and the crappy fighting system which 
 fortunately can always be avoided by stealth or by choosing the right lines in conversations with 
 NPCs.
  
  A definite classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abyscat
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 4, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  This is the adventure game I've been waiting to play since I started playing adventure games. Great 
 voice acting, beautiful graphics, and a seamless interface combine to draw you in to a complex, 
 intriguing story. Once finished, I wanted to immediately replay the game, as well as my old copy 
 of the prequel "The Longest Journey," just so that I could put the plot pieces together again.
 
  
  My only complaint is that some of the later chapter are too short. Also, the game is clearly a 
 second part of a triology, so it leaves many lose ends untied.
  
  Hopefully part III won't take another 6 years! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuclearbomb2000
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 4, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  this game, like the first one is a amazing experience with a storyline that can make a movie, the 
 game itself is good but it sacrifices gameplay for 
  the storyline, but all in all the gameplay doesnt matter the story just keeps you wanting to continue 
 even though you want to take a break from it all.
  
  the story has so many twists and turns and ending will leave you in awe and wanting to see more 
 of game story, you just feel like you dont want it to end, the graphics for one thing are good 
 and bad in some areas in the game but some of the scenes you see look amazing even in a low spec 
 pc
  ,the sound is the main thing that made this game a success with the expert voice acting and ambient 
 sounds, from funny comments to freaky quotes,
  
  halfway through the game you will see dramatic scenes of people going to their end in arcadia and 
 in stark or other locations, both worlds are amazing in a way in culture and langauge (cough*) . 
 from skyscrapers that touch the sky to deep under ground areas, the story revolves on one girl called 
 zoe, her day begins with weird happenings and a disappearence of a friend, as you go through the 
 game you shall meet new characters that will explain alot of whats been going on and what you need 
 to do , the puzzles are a little too easy but you may enjoy them and the controls are okay except 
 for the sometimes annoying camera.
  
  this game is worth the money, if you played the first one you will definitly like this one, if 
 you never played the first one it still is a great game and should be tried by everyone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusmartin23
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Through out the game you will feel lost more than once. The story involves you slowly, but for 
 every question you find an answer to another two will rise. The fighting mod is terrible, very 
 few movements allowed, you'll character will wonder off and hit nothing but air, blocking does 
 not fully protect you, the other character will be able to do damage to you in situations where 
 you are unable to damage them yourself... not to mention the existence of "invinsible" characters 
 you are not allowed to win against. The camera movement makes it almost impossible to play a stealth 
 situation when needed, blind spots everywhere, not to mention it moves opposite to what is logical. 
 Linear playing will not allow you to explore much there is not really anything you can find or 
 much you can explore. Some of the characters/creatures in the game (specially the really interesting 
 looking ones) have absolutely no story... makes you feel disapointed at times. I am writing this 
 right after watching the credits for the game so my opinion about it is quite fresh. Even after 
 all of these I feel that I have personally ENJOYED MYSELF PLAYING. So I will recommend for you 
 to play it as well. As a matter of fact I feel a bit like in a dream. This game is Girl compatible 
 so guys if you have a girlfriend/wife that has trouble understanding why you like video games and 
 her IQ is over 90 sit them next to you while you play this. Let them play it themselves. It is 
 100% girl compatible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkZ3
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 3, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall was extremely anticipated by adventure gamers as it was the sequel to one of the best 
 game in this genre: The Longest Journey. I was one of those who couldn't wait to get my hands on 
 it and in the end, I was not disappointed. The game is actually a bit different from the first 
 one because it's not a "point and click" adventure. It feels very natural because you explore the 
 world in full 3D and still have the deepth and content of old adventure games. The core gameplay 
 consists of interacting with the wonderful characters. This can look limiting but it stays interesting 
 through the whole game thanks to the excellent writing and voice acting. All the characters are 
 well developped and contribute very well to the emotional roller coaster that is Dreamfall. There 
 are some very minor stealth and combat gameplay elements but those are not the focus of the game. 
 
  
  While the technical aspect of the game isn't exactly top notch, the art design makes up for it 
 very much. The sound is especially good; voice acting is probably the best ever and music is always 
 very fitting and well composed. The story is amazing and very inspiring; this is number one reason 
 to get into this game. My only grippe is that it's way too easy. There are few puzzles and they 
 are very straightfoward. Also, the ending raises a lot of questions which is both good and bad. 
 It's good because it leaves you thinking about it and you feel like you have to go through the 
 game a second time. But at the same time, you don't get the same kind of resolution you would get 
 from your typical movie, which is a little bit less satisfying. 
  
  In the end, I would recommend this game to anyone interested in a good story and very well done 
 dialogs coupled with good production values. 8.8/10 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gold90435
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 3, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  DREAMFALL: THE LONGEST JOURNEY (2006) 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 10/10
  ----------------
  Moral Values: 6/7
  Fun Element: 6/7
  Camera: 6/7
  Tradicionality: 
 7/7
  Atmosphere: 7/7
  MPAA Rating: 4/7
  Plot: 6/7
  Music: 5/7
  Originality: 6/7
  Likeability: 7/7
  ---------------
  Overall: 8.7/10
  
  Genre: Dramatic Movie-like Multi-character 
 RPG-ish Action Adventure
  Classic: YES
  Worth Buying: YES
  Playing Frequency: Once every two years
  
  + : you play three different major characters with 
 different view at the world at the same time, multiple stories progressing into one major as the 
 game develops, very likeable characters especially female, fully audiable with some breathtaking 
 voice actors, a great mix of medieval and science fiction worlds, great potential for another sequel
 
  
  - : too many loose ends, not enough puzzles, unnecessary occasional bad language, 6 cds instead 
 of 1 dvd, unable to install if you have less than 7 GB free on your system hard drive unless fiddling 
 with regedit
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: navahmed
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 3, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  I finished Dreamfall last week. I waited for a week before submitting the review so that I just 
 don't get carried away, giving all 10. Now, I can look back and collect my thoughts, Dreamfall 
 simply blew me away. It is one of the best stories I have ever witnessed in a computer game. Presentation, 
 characters, design are all master class. Music and Voice acting is among the best that you will 
 see in any game.
  
  What the game lacks is the traditional gameplay. It is tad too easy, so it ends up like a page 
 turner interactive story. Puzzles are not extremely challenging, there are some which require some 
 thinking, otherwise it is not so difficult. FunCom tried a different approach here. Unlike putting 
 obscure puzzles and impossible inventory items, the game feels realistic, all the puzzles give 
 the feeling that they are possible, inventory items are also believable, thus this results in the 
 simplification of puzzles. This can put off some people, but I was not bothered by this because 
 the incredible story made the worthwhile. In the end it was one of the most memorable gaming experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hapoel
Rating: 5
Date: May 3, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  The original TLJ is one of my favorite games of all times, so getting the sequel was a no brainer. 
 But while Dreamfall has some good things about it, overall it's a major disappointment even without 
 the unavoidable comparison to the great original.
  Basically, it seems like everybody involved with the game ran out of ideas. There are very few 
 puzzles, most of them are very easy, and fairly dull. The game advances more like a movie. While 
 the environments are pretty and fun to explore you feel that you're really not controlling anything, 
 but rather are being controlled by the game writers. 
  The dialogue is great, and so it seems at times that the story is good, but it really isn't. The 
 plot really seems like a poor rip off of Akira and F. E. A. R. and has a lot of generic science fiction 
 cliches. A lot of the characters and plot lines seem to be completely irrelevant to the main plot, 
 and while they're fun while you're doing them, at the end it all feels pointless. You get to switch 
 between three characters, two of which are fairly annoying and add nothing to the experience, serving 
 more as a gimmick. 
  The ending has been much discussed, which is ironic because there is no ending. Without revealing 
 too much, after finishing the game I felt cheated, because despite all my efforts, my impact on 
 the events of the story remains minimal. This is very artsy and post modern, but people want adventures 
 and at least some kind of a resolution that makes sense, rather than cliches and post modernist 
 smugness. The action and stealth elements are just annoying and seem to be intended simply to stretch 
 the game which takes about 10 hours to finish, very different from the truly long and engaging 
 TLJ.
  Overall I enjoyed the first 2/3rd of the game just because of the characters and the dialogue, 
 even though it didn't come close to comparing to the longest journey. But the ending is so contrived, 
 cliche and unrewarding, it brings my tilt for the game way down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoP-Falcon
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 2, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I absolute recommend this Game to everyone that can understand complex Stories and don't needs 
 to slaughter 2 People per minute to have fun.... 
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are solid and nice.... No big deal, but good and it Fits.... 
  
  Sound: 
 The Sound/Music is absolutly great... No matter what Music you like... the Music stays in the Background 
 just to make the emotional Events more intense etc. without disturbing you...... This is how it 
 should handled in more games.....
  
  Gameplay: I don't play many games like that ... I just know some old Adventures from the old Days... 
 like this Gabriel Knight stuff.... I would describe it as solid... I didn't have any problems related 
 to controls or something.... The fightsystem is very simple... but it does the Job.... Sometimes 
 climbing a ladder etc. felt a bit to slow, but it was ok at all
  
  Value: For the Money you mostly get crap nowadays... buggy junk that let you spend more time getting 
 it working than playing it in the end.... and most Games are simple to short ... or boring.... 
 
  Dreamfall is none like this... It is an superb Game that let you be part of a Story that is ten 
 times better that all of this Hollywood Moviecrap produced in the last Years..... This is one of 
 very very few Stories that I really would call Epic!!! 
  
  Summary: I recommend this Game to everyone who wants to see a solid game with a truely Epic Story 
 wirh many realy great written Characters to remember .... Some people say it's an "Girls game" 
 I don't agree with them.... U play as a women and you won't behead someone with a big rusty Axe, 
 but everyone can enjoy this game... the only thing you need is some Brain inside your Head......
 
  
  PS: Sry for the bad english... I hope it's encryptable ;-)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattlreese
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  Ok so first off before you read this review I want to make a comment about the end of this game, 
 that way we can put it aside during the rest of the review. As many of you have heard the end of 
 this game could use some improvement. It is not bad per say it just leaves you wanting more, much 
 more. The ending does not give you the closure that you need in a game like this. Hopefully we 
 will not have to wait more then 4 years before they make another Longest Journey.
  
  That aside people would not be making such a fuss about the ending if the game up to that point 
 was not any good. 
  
  They game is in fact simply a masterpiece. While playing this game I found myself glued to the 
 computer screen because it was that good. In fact I forced myself to stop playing after a while 
 so I could prolong the experience. The characters are amazing, the story even more so, and the 
 presentation tops it all. This game plays like an interactive movie, one that would receive an 
 Oscar for best director. 
  
  Go but this game, then ending could be better, but everything up to that point is simply some of 
 the best entertainment out there, of any kind.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tOrchie
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 10, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey, isn't perfect, and it is lacking in actual gameplay in a lot of 
 ways, but none of that matters, because most of the time, you just want to get to the next plot 
 point or scene that gives you a few more crumbs of story.
  
  It's hard to say much without ruining what is such a convoluted and fascinating story, but the 
 basics don't spoil much. You control three characters: Zo Castillo, a girl living in Casablanca 
 in the "real" world of Stark, who is pretty aimless and apathetic at the beginning of the game, 
 April Ryan, the protagonist in the original Longest Journey, who has grown into a cynical woman 
 fighting against the occupying force of the Azadi the fantasy realm of Arcadia, and Kian, an apostle 
 of the Azadi who is tasked with eliminating the leader of the rebellion against the Azadi.
  
  You mostly control Zo, but between the three characters, you travel to a wide variety of locations 
 in three different worlds, all of which have distinctive styles and looks to them. You'll also 
 end up retreading certain areas with all three, which can be interesting, especially when you get 
 their wildly diverse takes on similar scenes and situations.
  
  The game itself is pretty straightforward. In the tradition of adventure games, you must explore 
 environments, pick up anything that isn't nailed down, and solve puzzles. However, there aren't 
 too many puzzles to solve, and most of them aren't too difficult. I've played through the whole 
 game, and only got stuck a few times. Only once did I look online for help. Of course, this isn't 
 necessarily a bad thing, as being able to figure everything out and solve all the problems gives 
 a nice feeling of accomplishment. On the other hand, a little more challenge would've been nice. 
 That being said, I don't know if I've ever played an adventure game that has had both a great story 
 and great, challenging, but not overwhelming puzzles. *sigh* Someday.
  
  There are also a few fight sequences, but combat is pretty simple and you shouldn't have any trouble 
 beating any opponent you face, except in a few cases when you actually just can't win. There are 
 also a few parts where you can sneak around, and for someone like myself that enjoys that type 
 of stuff, those parts can be somewhat entertaining and even nerve-wracking. I was definitely on 
 edge a few times, hoping not to get caught.
  
  The controls are little difficult to get the hang of at first, if you're using a keyboard/mouse 
 combo, but I've heard that using a gamepad makes it a breeze to navigate and play. Either way, 
 I had things under control about ten minutes after I started, although I did switch some mouse 
 axis orientations to make things feel more intuitive. It's nice that they give you that option.
 
  
  Dreamfall is a really beautiful game, with a large number of well-done game areas to explore. Many 
 times, when you first enter a new area, you'll get a great panoramic view of the area before you 
 continue on you quest. These views are nice, and show off the environments well. The character 
 designs, while not perfect, are still pretty great in their own right. Only rarely did I notice 
 overlapping objects or people. Also, some of the object interactions were somewhat simplified, 
 but again, that didn't both me much.
  
  The sound in this game is probably the best part. The voice acting is really good. They brought 
 back all the actors from the original, which creates awesome continuity between the two games, 
 and the people they brought in for the new characters also did a great job. I actually thought 
 the girl who does the voice of April Ryan did a better job in this game than in the original, and 
 the girl who did Zo definitely shined. At first I didn't like her character, since she seemed 
 like a lazy good-for-nothing, but you can definitely see, feel, and hear her change as the story 
 progresses, and I give major props to the actress for conveying those changes. Everyone else was 
 very solid, and a couple characters provided perfect comic relief, due to the great timing and 
 execution of the voice actors.
  
  In many ways, though, the music is what makes so many scenes have maximum impact. The music in 
 the fantasy world of Arcadia is great, and a few of the undeground sequences in particular have 
 delightfully foreboding music palying in the background, but it is the music of Stark that really 
 stole the show for me. It does a fantastic job of putting you into the future with its electronic 
 and pop sensibilities. It just feels right, like what we really will be listening to in 200 years.
 
  
  The graphics and sound combined with the well-written story to create an amazingly immersive experience, 
 even though you spend a large amount of time just watching characters talk. Unfortunately, the 
 total amount of gameplay time you can squeeze out of this game is maybe around twenty hours, and 
 that's less than I'd want. Of course, I've played enough adventure games to know how difficult 
 it is to keep providing more and more and more game. Completely different from most games that 
 just provide a system that you can keep playing in.
  
  Knowing this, I found myself desperately curious to find out what would happen next, and almost 
 impatient to get through the gameplay sequences so I could get to more of the story. I have mixed 
 feelings, in a way. I loved this game, and I really did get emotionally involved with a lot of 
 the characters, and concerned about their fate. The story has some surprising, what I would consider, 
 non-traditional adventure game plot twists, and even though a lot is unresolved, it was ultimately 
 satisfying, just because, for once, I actually CARED. How often can you say that about a game?
 
  
  Yes, the story is tremendous, but leaves so much unanswered. You could find yourself frustrated 
 by all this, but I was just thrilled to be able to participate in something that really did feel 
 epic in the best way. I just want MORE of it as soon as possible. And that is the triumph of this 
 game. It leaves you wanting more. You can't dislike a game that does that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: midknight00
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 28, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a truly remarkable accomplishment. If you are an old school adventure game fan, you will 
 see that this is a perfect transition into the modern gaming medium. The storyline is absolutely 
 incredible, as are the graphics and sound. The fighting sequences are nothing to write home about, 
 but they are an interesting diversion. Multiple solutions to problems abound, including in many 
 cases being able to find non-combat solutions as well. Haven't beaten the game yet, but truly an 
 enjoyable experience so far.
  
  If you've wondered how the old school Sierra games and Lucasarts games of yore would look and feel, 
 look no further than Dreamfall. I hope this is just the beginning in a renaissance of adventure 
 gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humbertox
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 27, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Amazing... that's all i have to say about this game. It begins with this beautiful girl in a coma, 
 and she wants to tell you her story..."It all began"... she said.
  
  This game has one of the best voice acting i have ever heard in a game, is just amazing, everyone 
 speaks to you like a good actor will speak to another in a great movie... and well this game is 
 a twelve hours long movie. A movie which i loved.
  
  Some say this game ain't a game at all, and that could maybe be true, as i say this is more a movie 
 than a game, you will spend a lot of time talking to other characters and your options won't be 
 much in the conversation, in fact sometimes you won't intervene at all, but it's such an amazing 
 tale of fantasy and adventure, that you shouldn't mind.
  In fact this girl Zoe is telling you a story , her story, and all she wants for you to do is listen, 
 so maybe, i think that's why you aren't given a lot of options.
  
  And as i said her story is so beautiful, touching, pretty , all the good adjectives that can be 
 put in the sentence, it blows your mind away, it really does, i ended falling in love with this 
 girl, i wanted to help her, she needs your help...
  
  The gameplay in the game, it's a bit awkward, people say that the fighting sequences makes the 
 gameplay stupid and boring, and well, they don't , is not the best in this game, is not fully detailed, 
 is just simplistic, just clicking, but then again, this is an adventure game, not an action one 
 and you won't spend more than 1 hour fighting through all the twelve hours of gameplay.
  . The camera and the movement, is not great, sometimes is just annoying in very closed areas. But 
 other than this areas, all you will have to do is take the characters to another place, just drive 
 them.
  
  The graphics are amazing, they are not the best ever, is not Oblivion, is not FEAR, but for an 
 adventure game they are very good, it drawns you into this fantasy world, they really does, and 
 i think the face of Zoe, is one of the most beautiful faces in games today.
  
  The sound is the best thing this game has, is simply outstanding, if you like sounds, this will 
 blow your ears off, people talking like they should in the kind of situations that affect them, 
 ironic, honest, serious, joking, they all fit this aspects. Zoe has this beautiful british accent 
 that i loved.
  And the soundtrack is amazing, the woman singing "oh ah oh ah" in the opening sequence when you 
 see Zoe, it really gets me, it's so sad, so melancholic.
  
  Once you finish this game, you don't need to play it again, as i said this game is like a movie, 
 is fact, is more a interactive movie than a game, so if you are the kind of person who sees movies 
 already seen a lot, you problably will play it again.
  
  The puzzles are the most linear, and obvious possibly. You will hardly , but i mean really hardly 
 get stuck in a situation, i only found one situation worth to stuck you in the entire game. Some 
 gamers see this like a bad thing, but i mean, it's ok, i one who hates pixel hunting, i mean it's 
 stupid, and i also hate things that doesn't make sense, in this game all makes sense.
  
  Another bad thing that people argue about, is the ending, well, what can i say?, it's like Empire 
 strikes back, like Fellowship of the ring, like Half Life 2, it cannot end there, it musn't , it 
 leaves all to your imagination, and in part is good, but if this doesn't go on anytime soon, i 
 will be very sad... really, there's a need for The longest journey 3. And soon, not 6 years from 
 now.
  
  Well as i said, and i'm ending this review, this game is pretty good, and amazing game, it you 
 like stories like a do, in fact a think that they all the most important thing in a game as long 
 with gameplay (which is not quite good here) , you will love this game, and you will think about 
 it for days to come.
  
  Until then, i hope i see Zoe, April and Crow again, because i will really miss them, and i would 
 love to be in the adventure with them again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 27, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  WOW this was one of the best games I have played for a long time I say this is a must have game 
 and any one will like, best gameplay, just perfect graphics, and it was just the skill level for 
 any one it took a little time but it was so worth it at the end when wow i want say the ending 
 but wow didnt see that coming. So I say it is a must have and ever one should get it why ever one 
 will like it. So all and all I would get it so you can play this beutlful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyFurcules
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've just finished the game, so I figured I'd wrangle up a few thoughts and share like many 
 of you guys have done. Some of it might have been said before, but I'll still include all of my 
 thoughts from immediately after finishing the game: (Warning -- does contain SPOILERS)
  
  Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed it. I wasn't one of those who were worried about the migration to 
 3D and the graphical/gameplay changes that the migration brought with it. In fact, I thought it 
 was great. And I still do. After seeing all the sites in the game, I'm completely satisfied with 
 how it came out visually. Some of the locales were absolutely amazing. To see Marcuria in a 360-degree 
 view rather than just two or three static shots was incredible. So liberating! The little winding 
 back streets of Old Town *alone* were beautifully created. Look at the small details -- the way 
 the rippled stained glass of some of the windows unevenly shimmered as the camera panned around 
 them showed that even the smallest surfaces had texture, and were not just flat pictures thrown 
 up on wireframes. The rest of the worlds were equally as well-done. I know some complained that 
 there weren't enough locations, particularly compared to TLJ. But considering the depth of detail 
 of each of the locations we did see, I'm more than satisfied. I mean, why make a bunch of more 
 locales just to say you did. I'm glad they paid attention to detail rather than quantity. 
  
  The story and characterizations -- as just about everyone has agreed -- were also wonderful. 
 As with TLJ, there were tons of characters to work with, and they wove together to make a fascinating 
 story. That also leads to part of the problem, as I think everyone has pointed out -- the ending! 
 I love a cliffhanger myself... but this is a doozy! Sure it keeps you wanting more, which I'm sure 
 is part of the point -- TLJ sequels until we're all old and grey would be great -- but this ridiculous! 
 As someone else pointed out, if I knew the third installment was definitely on the way (with a 
 real projected date and all) , I wouldn't mind. But that could be years away! That should have been 
 taken into consideration when writing the end. You're all right. Way too much left unanswered. 
 Let's face it -- absolutely no one's storyline was resolved!
  
  [Edit] : Upon further contemplation, and after much (much!) discussion with other game enthusiasts, 
 the ending doesn't bother me as much. There more I examined the goings-on of the game, the more 
 I understand the ending. Perhaps you really have to get into Zoe's head (so to speak) to completely 
 appreciate how the story ended. It's not your happy storybook tale, so it's not your happy storybook 
 ending. In fact, the open ending is part of what made the game so engaging. I suppose I was previously 
 just so upset and shocked that the game was over, I hadn't thought through its complete meaning. 
 So aside from wanting a sequel *immediately* to continue where this one leaves off, I say "Bravo" 
 to the ending. I've thoroughly enjoyed the experience of the game and its ending so far -- not in 
 spite of the unconventionalities, but rather because of them. I get it. I get the story. I get 
 where it's going. It's not a story manqu -- it's a tale en progrs. And I have faith that we will 
 get to complete the journey, as it were. Until then, I'll just keep enjoying the path we've taken 
 so far -- and appreciate its unconventional nature. [End Edit]
  
  The music was beautiful. It was decidedly different than that of TLJ, but nonetheless great. Not 
 overbearing. Rousing and percussive when it had to be; calm and pseudo-subliminal when it was appropriate. 
 I thought the use of the Magnet songs were reserved and tasteful enough not to be distracting or 
 seen as a blatant tool to sell a CD. Overall, I particularly liked the "Music from Stark" (which 
 seemed to be pretty much the BGM in Zo's house) , the BGM that was played when you were around 
 the Journeyman, and the lyrical song (sung by a woman -- not sure who) when Zo finally gets back 
 to Casablanca in the end.
  
  The physical gameplay to me was fine (movement, controls, navigation, etc.) I really have no complaints. 
 I know people have said the keyboard/mouse controls are a bit wonky, but once I picked up my gamepad, 
 there was no problem. 
  
  The combat was relatively benign. Once I got down how to properly block and dodge (dodging is the 
 key!) , the fights were easy. So the combat was no big deal. The stealth/sneaking was actually fun 
 for me. It brought to the game one thing that TLJ didn't have: a sense of danger and excitement. 
 That danger (in the caves where the giant troll is waiting to kill you around every corner, for 
 example) was a most welcome addition. I know many people complained about that part in particular, 
 but I thought it livened things up a bit. I could have been sleeping and still played TLJ without 
 any worries -- I know nothing "bad" would happen. The action in Dreamfall (and I don't mean the 
 combat) kept you on your toes. And while there was only *physical* action in a few scenes, that 
 carried over into the other areas -- as corny as it may sound, I never knew who or what might be 
 literally around the corner waiting. For example, I thought for sure someone was lurking around 
 the warehouse/lab at the end. It kept you guessing. That's great! That's suspense!
  
  That being said, the gameplay in general was relatively easy. As many have pointed out (particularly 
 in the external reviews) , the puzzles were all fairly simple. I didn't have a problem with a single 
 one. Not that I found TLJ particularly "hard" either, but it was a decidedly more challenging than 
 this one was. I don't enjoy getting completely stuck in a game because of illogical puzzles/tasks -- 
 that's just pointless and a waste of time. But a bit more brain-teasing would have been welcome. 
 Maybe it would have lengthened the game a bit, too.
  
  The game as a whole seemed to be a bit more mature than TLJ. And I don't mean mature as in "adult" -- 
 I mean as if the game had "grown up." It's a lot more serious than TLJ. Darker. Yes, there is a 
 good share of humor -- Crow is still the best, and some of Klacks' lines reminded me of the clever 
 wit of Zork -- great stuff. But in general, the theme was just more serious. I guess April herself 
 is a prime example of that, and a metaphor for the feel of the game itself. All the ingenuousness 
 is gone. The joie de vivre had disappeared. So much of what made her "our" April has gone, and 
 that's a bit depressing. ... but you have to understand that I'm not saying that's totally a bad 
 thing. It's just *different.* But I think that's good, because that's life! Sometimes, the outlook 
 is a bit dark, and we get to be quite cynical. (With three angst-ridden protagonists like we had -- 
 one of them having 10 years to stew in her own misery (self-imposed or not) since last we saw her -- 
 it's no wonder the theme was decidedly cynical.) That was a bold choice on the parts of the creators. 
 Seeing as how I feel it is realistic insofar as it the way life sometimes really goes, I think 
 it was a good choice.
  
  But still being one who believes in happy endings, I anxiously await the next chapter in the TLJ 
 story. April's not dead. Zo's not going to die. Arcadia and Stark are once again linked directly 
 to each other, no doubt with dire consequences for both if the "big bad" of each side is not thwarted. 
 And we'll learn about Westhouse and the White Dragon and Cortez and the "Alvane" connection and 
 the WATIcorp CEO... the list goes on. Too many questions! Too many questions! I loved reading the 
 predictions some of the people on the official forum posted for the next chapter. Great stuff! 
 
  
  So now I'm sitting here, still soaking it all in, probably ready to play through it again in a 
 few days. And I wait for what should prove to be an incredible conclusion to an incredible story. 
 Hopefully, the wait won't be in vain.
  
  ... but if we don't get another sequel and a satisfactory conclusion to our story -- and soon! -- 
 I take back all that good stuff I just said... and I'll be just plain pissed off! 
  
  Update: I just read on the website of Ragnar Tornquist that there is in fact going to be another 
 installment in the TLJ series -- possibly two (which will be in the form of Dreamfall Pt. 2 and 
 then a 3rd chapter. Let's hope so! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joshua6609
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 26, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I have played the Longest Journey. I have followed this game for a very long time. All I can say 
 is wow. This game is amazing. Never before have I played anything like it, and that's a very, very 
 good thing.
  
  To start off, I have to mention the controls. They take a little getting used to. It's somewhat 
 awkward. But play the game for a little while and you will get it. For the people who say this 
 game was too easy, I found it just right. If I had a way difficult time on the puzzles in this 
 game, I would of found it frustrating, and that wouldn't of been good.
  
  The sound, ohh the sound. This IS a movie. The atmosphere is set up perfect. The characters voice's 
 are amazing as well. Very, very believable.
  
  This is my new favorite game of all time. It may have some problems, but they are too minor not 
 to love this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADG_
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 26, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  This doesn't even come close to being as good as The Longest Journey, and this is supposed to be 
 a sequel? Don't make me laugh
  
  I have a hard time calling this a game, as it doesn't feel like a game. It just feels like a movie. 
 The only choices you get when playing the game is, what do you say when talking to people. The 
 dialog will be different, but in most cases, the outcome is the same
  99% of the time playing, you spend on running from location A to location B. There's no reason 
 to spend time thinking, as you get everything told. I'm not talking about small hints, no, they 
 tell you exactly what to do (except in one place, where you have to guess a combination, no hints 
 are given)
  
  Ok, some people likes a good story in a game, more than an actual game, fair enough, but even here 
 the game fails. I mean, sure, the story itself is good, but compared to The longest Journey (from 
 now on TLJ) , it's close to non-existant. In TLJ you got hours and hours of dialog, that tells you 
 everything about everything, even though most of what you're told is not something you have to 
 know, to finish the game, but it makes the game feel like an actual world
  In Dreamfall you're only told, what you need to know, to make the story go on, nothing more. It 
 doesn't feel like you're actually there. There's really no memorable non-player characters in the 
 game, as each character just gives you a mission, then they're gone forever... no backstory, no 
 nothing
  
  I'm not going to mention much about the EXTREMELY bad ending, I'm just going to say that if you 
 really want to play this "game", wait until the sequel is out
  
  Also note that this "game" takes about 10-15 hours to finish (most of the time is spent running 
 around) . I was not once challenged in the game, and I'm not exactly an expert in adventure games, 
 as I've only finished a few of them) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaz1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this is the best game I've ever played, there are few games out there with any story 
 to speak of, and this puts everything to shame. I have never played a better game. Perhaps this 
 is because of my fascination with story over gameplay, and indeed, the gameplay is... lacking. 
 But none of that matters once the storyline hooks you. It will not let you go, and come the ending, 
 you will not want to leave.
  The game-play however, was a mess. The combat simply sucked, and the camera was at times, very 
 wonky. I never had a problem with the stealth sections, but the timed ones, oy, those angered me 
 rightly. As well as this, i do believe the characters could have been a little more animated, when 
 someone revealed their story to you, they tended to just talk it at you, rather then actually express 
 what they were no doubt feeling. It became quite noticable at times. Yet it all doesn't matter 
 once you're deep enough in. Feel that pleasant tickling sensation at the back of your head? That's 
 ecstacy. 
  What also must be mentioned is the sound. This game is alive with it, it cannot be played without 
 it. Should you turn the sound off, you cut off the spectacular orcehstral numbers, the haunting 
 melodies, and will no doubt flounder about while looking for a puzzle solution. It's simply stunning. 
 When playing this game, turn the volume up, way up.
  Graphics were as immersive as the sound. Though not as detailed as most games these days, the graphics 
 gave the sense that it didn't particullarly matter what texture was on a wall, or a roof, or something 
 like that, the art direction forces the player to look at the created unit as a whole. What i mean 
 to say is, though it may not have the shiniest graphics, it was gorgeous in a way few 'gritty, 
 real' games could ever be. It was... fantastical, for lack of a better word. Upshot, it ran really 
 well on my 9700. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Numbasss
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Or adleast that is what i think... FUNCOM has some explaining to do and maybe the finale of the 
 game just wants us to dream.... for you who have finished, remember Zoe telling you to pass on her 
 story and stuff like that.... either this is a verry clever way of meaking you pread the word about 
 the game or to finish with... what i think it sais is "Finish the sroty and save her world... by 
 DREAMING"... and that would be pure genios my friends. Anyway a verry big round of aplause for the 
 designers of this game... and for the LOOOOOOOOOONG list of people in the credits! The game has it 
 all and i say practicaly it has it all.... well allmost all... it lacks a happy ending but that i 
 think it's the kewlest part.. althought i allmost burst into tears at the chapter "The Longest Jurney"... i 
 quickly loaded a scene with crow to cheer me up... like i bet the first longest jurney was awsome... but 
 to be onest it dosen't deserve JUST a 8.1 it deserve to be number 1 IN OUR HEARTS... before i even 
 played it i was obbsesed wit the idea that Ovlivion wasn't running on my pc.... thx www. oldoblivion. com 
 for fixing that [roblem... but anyway i guess that it's not just one game it's em all that make 
 this gameworld so great! ok concentrating on the originality of the game... besides the unique and 
 "ge atached super fast" characters... it allso has an exelent gameplay... i mean i enjoid the stealh 
 parts a lot.. oh the combat sucked but it was verry easy i guess that the next will have better 
 combat... oh and pls STOP meakeing awsome adventure games... contoroled by hovering a mouse and solveing 
 a jezilionz puzzels... make em like dreamfall!....
  
  JUST DREAM BABYS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minaeve
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 25, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  First off:
  The irony of a name boasting the title "the longest journey" being only about 10 hours long is 
 not escaped on me. 
  Second:
  The puzzles were relatively easy, the combat was simple and short. 
  Third:
  The ending... 
 not going to spoil anything, but the ending is an object of much controversy.
  
  Rebuttal:
  Yes it was short. And that is disappointing, but it does do an excellent job of leaving 
 its audiences wanting more. It is ultimately an interactive cinematic experience, however, and 
 that means you've essentially got a 10 hour long movie, and one of the deepest and most intruiging 
 plots I've ever seen. Also, it is a transition ending, of sorts. The Longest Journey was always 
 supposed to be a trilogy, and hopefully we won't have to wait another 4 years for the next one 
 but I'll wait if I have to. The ending is very Empire Strikes Back-ish in that there is really 
 no closure for anything, and you end with so many questions... questions you'll have to wait a 
 very long time to get answered... well, if you think on it too much, you may just go crazy. But 
 it's worth the crazy. Every last drop of crazy... because it's beautiful. It's a work of art. And 
 it's completely and utterly worth it.
  
  WARNING: this game is like crack. Luckily, it's only about 10 hours of crack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 25, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall: The Longest Journey is, first and foremost, a great work of science fiction. Such a 
 complex plot, endearing characters, and imaginative settings and situations are highly uncommon 
 to gaming, or any medium for that matter. Those familiar with the game's predecessor might expect 
 no less, since it's widely considered one of the best adventure games ever made. Judged as a follow-up 
 to a beloved classic, Dreamfall does not disappoint, for the most part. It exhibits the unique 
 attention to detail and terrific presentation that made The Longest Journey so remarkable for its 
 time. But Dreamfall also does an excellent job drawing in new players as well as those fans patiently 
 awaiting this sequel. The actual gameplay is a blend of action adventure conventions, but it clearly 
 isn't the main draw. It's there to help make the story more engaging, and that's more or less what 
 it does. Yet, as impressive as the story is, it ends too quickly to leave you feeling fully satisfied 
 when you finally reach the game's bewildering, enlightening, frustrating, thought-provoking conclusion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayn03
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  This game from my point of view is one of the best story telling game ever ( not including jRPG 
 :P)
  The storyline is so complex that U play like a 8 hours and U didnt have a clou whats going on.
 
  The characters are so aliwe (great voice casting) and unique that U want to play and play this 
 game straith from beggining to an end (Im playing for almoste 2 days now whith no tuching other 
 games) .
  
  One thing though... the puzzles or riddles and the fighting sequences should be more... hmm.... 
 complex and challenging :P 
  
  Everything from graficks to sound just compose to one big artism.
  
  The graficks may not be 
 so Techno; ogical Hi-End but its very good composed (created) . The whole world just seems beautifull.
 
  
  The sound is awaysome (aspecialy in 5.1 or EAX3) . The music, sounds create perfect klimate. The 
 dialoge is fascinating, how the characters can ekspres themselfs, but...
  
  One thing that is missing is how the characters move... why devolopers dont use montion capturing 
 (or use verry bad) . Thats what from my point of view game misses most. The game has lots of cutscens 
 but the perfect chars voice casting dont fit whith their movement. Whith that the game may have 
 more movie like style (aspecialy whith 16:9 LCD or TV)
  
  and another thing that have me frustrating was camera control. Tottaly crap whith mouse, sometimes 
 it makes me confused.
  
  But U should try that game and found Ure own pluses and minuses.
  
  Its deffinitely worth of 
 buying!!!
  
  P. S. Sorry for language errors, Im not good at writing Eanglish :P Greats to all pleyazzz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_kjetil
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game for about 4 days ago, and now I'm trough. I have to say that it sure 
 is a great game to play. Both for those who did play TLJ, and those who didn't. This game includes 
 so many wonderful moments, puzzles, conversations, in-game movies, and a lot of other things.
 
  
  What i found to be the most negative thing about the game (and almost the only one) was the ending. 
 I'm not going to say what happens in the end, but i found it really disappointing.
  
  There's only one other negative thing, that's the voice casting. Not all of the voices are that 
 great as they where in TLJ 1, but also in Dreamfall, you may find some of the characters intresting 
 to interact with.
  
  At last I have to say I recommand this game for everyone who is looking for an adventure game to 
 remember. It really doesen't matter if you played TLJ or not, It's a great game anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holagrave1918
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is nothing to write home about since it is taking a point-and-click adventure 
 game into a fully immersive 3D world. Any game that transforms from a 2D environment to a 3D is 
 bound to have it's problems, but nothing so bad that it holds back the game by any means.
  
  The fighting in the game is awkward and simple at the same time. Would've been better if that 
 aspect was just left out of the game entirely, but thankfully there is only a few areas that engage 
 the player into combat.
  
  Graphics: Very smooth graphics with lush colorful scenery. Seeing scenes that I remembered from 
 "The Longest Journey" in 3D was really something. It was a nostalgic feeling to go through Arcadia 
 in 3D and explore areas that you could not explore in the first installment.
  
  Sound: Awesome speech, sound effects, and music. This game is said to have 9 hours worth of speech 
 alone. 9 hours worth!!! All of the voice actors did a great job in delivering their lines, especially 
 the returning cast from the first game. :) Many, many audio options for virtually any set of speakers 
 you have - all the way to 8.1!
  
  Value: Depends on how you look at it. If you look at it from my POV, which is having completed 
 the first game and now this one, then of course the value is a 10! Fans of the series will agree 
 that there is a high replay value to play through the 2 games and get everything you can out of 
 them (with all the little plot threads and hints)
  
  All in all, the series is like a good book or a good movie that you watch over and over again and 
 never get sick of. The viewer becomes attached to the characters and engages on an epic journey 
 that takes them through wondrous worlds.
  
  Without giving away the ending I will say this: Can't wait for Ragnar Tornquist to write up a conclusion 
 to this awesome series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  [Note: This review has changed from its original version, due to some reconsideration by the reviewer.]
 
  
  Dreamfall is an engaging and beautiful work, though it suffers from some flaws which detract from 
 the whole.
  
  Dreamfall is a sequel of sorts to the excellent (and also flawed) The Longest Journey. The world 
 is wonderfully crafted, with an odd and endearing mix of traditional cultural settings and science 
 fiction. The recent advances in graphics technology are utilized wonderfully in the game engine, 
 which is played in 3rd person perspective. Adventure games have mostly suffered in their translation 
 from two to three dimensions, but as technology has developed, the genre is beginning to recover 
 the sense of immersion and detail in its worlds which was lost when moving from detailed paintings 
 and pre-renderings to real-time 3d. 
  
  Dreamfall is a beautiful game. Animation is very well done, with characters acting in a very lifelike 
 way. Lip syncing is done excellently as well. The world is lifelike and engrossing. You won't be 
 able to take your eyes off of it.
  
  More than that, the visuals really do move the adventure game genre forward in ways that are desperately 
 needed. Adventure games have, for a very long time, felt static. Their worlds were not really alive. 
 We were often sent to places where characters stood still in single places and didn't act as though 
 they had real lives. If there were characters. Sometimes worlds were empty of all life save your 
 own. Dreamfall does not solve all of these problems, but it seems to reveal a light at the end 
 of the tunnel. The Dreamfall world looks lived in, it looks alive, and most importantly it feels 
 as though there are others moving around and living in it. That makes the game feel much more like 
 a living, breathing world. Now, if the developers could take that one step further and bring it 
 up a notch or two (god, I'd love to be able to walk through crowds in a marketplace, not knowing 
 who to talk to. Challenging, yes, but wouldn't that be cool?) they'd be on the right track.
  
  Sound is excellent -- a beautiful score is accented well with simply marvelous voice acting. 
 Zoe's part in particular is spectacularly voiced.
  
  The gameplay is an interesting mix of action and adventure. The action is never so challenging 
 to be a distraction, though, so those diehard adventure gamers who may be put off by the occasional 
 bit of action should not worry -- the game's action sequences are fairly simple. They add just enough 
 excitement to charge up the game, but you'll never be frustrated by them. The puzzles are uniformly 
 good, and thankfully rational. There is no resort to the implausible to drag the game out, although 
 occasionally one feels dragged around by the game just for the purposes of increasing the length 
 of the game. 
  
  Movement in the game does take some fine tuning, however, and thankfully the game offers some options. 
 Moving in tight quarters can be frustrating, especially with a camera which behaves somewhat eratically -- a 
 problem stumping most game designers these days. But with some careful adjustment, the game controls 
 well.
  
  The game does have some flaws, most of which are not technical but artistic. The story is, by most 
 adventure game standards, very good. But it feels rushed toward its conclusion and leaves many 
 unanswered questions. Enjoyable as it is, however, the story still suffers from cliche, predictability, 
 and some streches of boredom. The story is still the weak link in these games, and I still do not 
 understand why such games cannot sustain a story as good as those in novels or even some movies. 
 The game contains a great deal of dialogue (as the first game in the series did) , and while most 
 of it is interesting, a great deal of the game is simply listening, not playing. Long streches 
 of the game include no puzzles, but just walking around in order to listen to more dialogue. This 
 is not always a bad thing, but it can get tiresome during certain points in the game where the 
 story seems to hit a lull and drag out.
  
  The game was not terribly difficult, and experienced players will not get hung up very easily in 
 the game. As I said earlier, the puzzles do not resort to irrationality to drag the game out or 
 to increase difficulty, but are very well designed. Casual players will likely find the challenge 
 to be decent and enjoyable.
  
  Overall, a very decent and enjoyable game, and recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phat39
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  I have recently just finished the game and it was GREAT (a bit too easy though) ! Even though I 
 would much more prefer a point'n'click system, this kind of genre is dying, and I can't blame FunCom 
 for trying a safe way.
  The story starts off with alot of talking, but as an adventure-game-fan, I find no problem with 
 this at all. For me, it's immersive, and I'm sure all the other adventure-game-fans feel this way 
 too. You start off missing an appointment to the gym, so you hurry over and get on with it. Then 
 one of your close friends, Reza, asks you to help him with an errand. Naturally you help him out, 
 and from here the game picks up (I don't want to spoil more for you) .
  Every second of the game is just as breathtaking and jawdropping as the other! The screenplay and 
 especially the voiceacting is top notch! The music score is un-matchable by any game when it comes 
 to how immersive it is! Alot of the background music really reminds you of the old days, especially 
 for those of you who are a FF7 fan, when the games gave you a special feeling. So this is of course 
 a plus!
  You get to control three protagonists, Zo the new female chick, April the female protagonist of 
 the last game and Kian, a mysterious male assasin. And you'll meet up with some old faces too, 
 which makes the nostalgia feeling ever so more present (a good thing!) ! Along with introducing 
 alot of new characters that plays a way in the game that makes you REALLY care for them. A really 
 genuine caring... and that's a great feat!
  Almost all the puzzles are very logical, making it therefore very easy and thus you always know 
 what you can do. It is in a way satisfying how you can come up with the solution to the puzzle 
 while Zo mumbles to herself what she should do next. But on the other hand, those of us who are 
 a real adventure-game puzzlesolver will get disappointed that they didn't make any headache-puzzles 
 (those that makes you stuck for several hourse) .
  All in all, the game delievered IMO. And I think that almost all the adventure-game-enthusiasts 
 will appreciate this game. So run and buy it!!
  
  Also, alot of people tends to get hung up on the ending. And I don't see why. Alot of good movies 
 (and some games) won't tell you everything you would've liked to know at the ending. It makes you 
 want more, get a longing feeling of how the people you cared for ends up, and it makes you think. 
 I don't know about other people, but I like that feeling. It's a feeling that enables me to dream 
 and think about the fantasy world (the same feeling you would get if you read a good book) ! And 
 besides, this is a trilogy, the 3rd chapter will undoubtely sum everything up!
  
  Half-Life 2 raised more questions than it answered.. did that make it's story and conclusion bad? 
 Or did it make the game bad? Not at all, it sets up to another episode and makes you want more! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArchAngelAlex
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Although i loved The Longest Journey, i have to say that Dreamfall doesn't quite meet the standard 
 of it's predecessor. I mean sure the story is just as rich, captivating and well dosed as with 
 the first game, however it's ending couldn't be more mind-blowing. How in your right mind can you 
 leave a player hanging out like that, having so many questions that still need answering? I mean 
 really i would like to talk to the man that wrote the screenplay ,or whatever it's called, for 
 this game and ask him why he did such a thing. We could consider that this leaves room for a sequel 
 but i don't want to wait a another six years as with this game to find out what the hell happened. 
 Other than that the game is pretty good, especially it's soundtrack and voice-acting but we can't 
 leave out it's gameplay. Although i didn't spend as much time as i did with the brain-squeezing 
 puzzles in the Longest Journey the game experience was pleasant altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayneTheDragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  For those of you out there that are complaining about a lack of ending and unanswered questions 
 I will say this, "Don't fault the game because it leaves a lot of what happened or could have happened 
 up to your imagination, that you may or may actually have".
  The game is extremely well put together, just like the first game. Sure there are some unanswered 
 questions, but the first game did exactly that as well. I still loved that game and this one as 
 well. Also, since when is it a games fault for leaving you wanting more. I find that an almost 
 gratifying sense when I have just read a fantastic new book, and sure I want more, but if you want 
 more it is usually worth waiting for. So, this game gets a high review from me because I want more 
 and I found the story as pleasurable as the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skank88
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  I was never really into adventure games, and as a result of that I've never played The Longest 
 Journey.
  But when I noticed Dreamfall just a few weeks ago it looked like a game I really enjoyed: Fahrenheit. 
 So I went out and got the game under the impression that it would enjoy it just as much as I enjoyed 
 Fahrenheit, I was wrong: I enjoyed it a lot more. 
  
  I didn't expect to get involved with the characters. I mean, there are two girls who come from 
 the distant future and a guy who in no way could have anything familiar with me, right? Well, I 
 was wrong. Especially Zo Castillo, the main character in this game, showed more comparisons with 
 me then I could have ever imagined. Even though she's a girl in her late teens/early twenties and 
 I'm a 17 year old guy I can relate to most of the comments she makes and the way she thinks. The 
 other characters weren't used as much as I'd have liked but they were interesting too. 
  
  I'm a bit disappointed by the sloppy camera system and the strange fighting system, but the story 
 more then makes up for it.
  
  The only real letdown that this game has is the fact that the ending could have been expanded on 
 a lot more. But, hopefully, there will be a sequel that will explain everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lillemjau
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  The Good: 
  
  The story is superb, unmatched in todays game pool. It blows you away, it's pretensious and it's 
 bold and it sucks you in like a raging river - you just have to go with it, follow the stream and 
 see what's behind the next door. The surprising end surely leaves you with a hundred questions, 
 wanting to know more, to see where the rabbit hole takes you. It's a ride everyone who ever cared 
 about adventure games should take. 
  
  The graphics are stunning. While the technology behind them is not up to par with today's best, 
 the art direction and attention to detail is amazing. The main characters look very good, the lighting's 
 great and fit with the impression you have of them form their backstory and purpose in the game. 
 There's some great animations, endearing scenes and beautiful reveals for people to look forward 
 to.
  
  The voice acting leaves nothing to be desired. It's so very very good, and hits the characters 
 spot on. The conversations don't feel fake and 'read from the script'-like. The multitude of voices 
 and the talent of these actors. This is very pleasant, surprising and makes the world seem more 
 real. I would like to pick out the voices of Roger Raines especially.
  
  The bad:
  
  You've heard it before. The game play IS weak, yes. There could be more puzzles, more challenging 
 puzzles, less repeated puzzles. However, it feels disappointing and weak sometimes, like the game 
 producers ran out of ideas after only a couple. Also, FedEx type 'quests' are incredibly, incredibly 
 boring.
  
  The combat is clunky and slow and adds nothing to the game, other than scenes you want to get past 
 as soon as possible. Luckily, you're not required to fight very often, in fact only a handful times. 
 Most combat scenes you can escape by using other means of solution. The combat itself is very simple, 
 with a few base attacks and combos. Mostly, it seems to involve dancing around your enemy and waiting 
 for them to go into this catatonic state so you can kill them asap.
  
  The control system is disputable. The mouse+keyboard option works well enough. The mouse only option 
 is absolutely horrendous, and I'm happy the developers chose not to put it as defaqult. The gamepad 
 option is definitely the best one, but not everyone has a gamepad lying about. I don't get the 
 focus field, other than when it's needed. Perhaps I'm a fan of the old point and click, perhaps 
 I just don't see how a blue ray could have anything to do with exploring.
  
  Summary:
  
  To sum up this review, I think Dreamfall is the best adventure game the industry has offered 
 in several years. Many people compare it with Fahrenheit/Indigo Prophecy, but I have to disagree 
 and call the two games highly different, both in form and in execution, even if they DO share 
 
  
  You should play this game to be served a story, to follow the destinies of three people - no, let 
 me make that "several people". To have your ideas of things like science, governments, faith, inner 
 journey and magic shaken up and stirred. And finally, to have several questions to churn after 
 the game ends. Some people don't like that it's not what they feel is complete. Some do.
  
  The annoying and weak bits of the game doesn't disturb the fact that Dreamfall is a game of high 
 quality, with a mindblowing story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Only_Thing
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  The first thing :
  
  After the tedious install of 6 discs :-p the game started with the usual advterising suspects (ATI, 
 X-FI) and then you are presented with the menu screen straight away with no introduction unless 
 you leave it for a while and it plays random parts of the game as a movie.
  
  The setup :
  For PC specs you will need at least a 2800+ athlon or 2ghz P4 with a Geforce 6600 
 or Radeon 9600 and 512mb RAM to play this at a decent speed and immerse yourself in the lushious 
 graphics.
  
  The intro/gameplay :
  All the movies are in game which makes you feel more a part of the charachters surroundings. Everything 
 you see in a movie is the style you will be playing in, impressive to say the least!
  
  Storyline :
  It will want you knowing more about the plot but I find the running backwards and 
 fowards VERY annoying when you have to load 2 zones to get a lockpick, which then gets an axe where 
 you allready did a previous puzzle and was just a small diversion.
  
  Combat :
  Combat???? Are you crazy??? Nope I am not but the developers were, it lacks a sense of realism 
 and is to simple and despite the offical review saying it does not get in the way it could be soooo 
 much better. Perhaps I am just to harsh but hey it is my review :-)
  
  For me loading is a sinch with 3 seconds max on all screen but for some people they may give up 
 :-S
  
  Sound :
  I personnaly love it with my Fatality X-FI sound card, it has surround sound with ambient noises, 
 love it!
  
  Graphics :
  Some people think this is next gen graphics and trust me you could be fooled as it looks amazing, 
 especially with antilaising on. It looks to me like HDR with bright effects that certainly do the 
 job v. well and I am not complaining! Worth getting this just for the graphics, even on an old PC!
 
  
  Controls :
  Okay this is where it is a bit 'funny' as the camera movement is jerky and inprecise at times.
 
  
  Overall :
  Currently it is very linear and simple but Ihave played the previous games and many other adventure 
 games, but simple logic will get you past most of stuff. Re-play value is little unless your that 
 bored or want to show off the graphics even on an old PC ;-)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArneZ
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  I loved the first Longest Journey game and this one is also great..
  Its a bit different then the first game in many ways.
  The controllers and fighting system is 
 good, the grapihics are great and i love the characters and the story.
  The game is about a girl called Zoe who is a bit bored.
  No school, no job.. and she dosnt know 
 what to do with her life.
  Then one day strange things starts to happend.......
  The thing i love about this game is the difference from other games.
  The colourful graphics 
 and the amazing story is few of the great things this game has to offer.
  Im a proud Norwegian and im proud of FunCom for making this amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAJA_RAMEEZ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game is far beond anything good, this game has the rights to be called a masterpiece. When 
 i played this game, i found this feeling inside me that made me feel like her.
  dreamfall is one of the greatest games that I've played, I love the adventure and puzzles in this 
 game. But I'm here to give you a review and that's what i'm going to do. First of all I'm gonna 
 brake the game into few pieces and tell you what i think about them.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in this game are wonderful, i think i haven't played a game with so high detailed 
 graphics. The characters are wonderful and have their own personality ( wich you can clearly see 
 in the graphics in this game ) . The landscape is beautiful and you feel like your inside the game 
 while playing; i give the landscaping in this a 10 ( I don't usually do this but it's so great 
 i had to ) . So the graphics in the game is a big part of it.
  So I give the graphics a rating of a 9.
  
  Sound
  The sound in this game is quite good to, 
 i love the detailed sounds, like the sounds in rivers floating and so on. I love the voice acting 
 in this game, the game is made for listening to what other people say; and then maybe later in 
 the game you will have some good use for it.
  So I give the sounds a good number of 9.
  
  Game play
  But of course it's the game play that matters the most. The game play in this game 
 is exciting and thrilling, so is the story of the game. The game play is mostly just about using 
 your brain, finding objects and put in certain places and so on. You basicly got 100's of puzzles 
 to do. 
  And I give the game play a great 10 because of it's great story and puzzles all the way through 
 the game.
  
  Well i hope this review has been help ful.. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  I sat for a while before writting this thinking what to say about the game, so here it goes. My 
 reviewers tilt is high cause I love adventure games!!!
  
  I was giddy like a school boy with his first crush when they announced Dreamfall but was worried 
 that the turn to an action/adventure style with sneaking, fighting and such could damage the experence 
 and it has. 
  
  This game suffers badly from consolitius having been seemingly designed with Xbox mainly in mind. 
 As such it suffers from low resolution characters, backgrounds that clearly look painted and not 
 alive and clunky controls. Gone is the next generation graphics (as in obilivion and HL2) to be 
 replaced with graphics that look quite dated. The controls was designed with the Xbox in full mind, 
 so gone is the mouse. The fighting action sequences are very poorly done and not at all designed 
 well, often feeling more of like a button mashing contest. Combat as a whole should have been eliminated 
 from this game if it was gonna be done this poorly, animations are subpar, actual combat controls 
 are non-responsive often taking place a few seconds after you push the button...
  
  The Story is not up to the name "The Longest Journey", another reviewer said it best.... felt like 
 they forgot to tie up the ending!!! And the game is short, to short for a 40buck game with flaws 
 IMO
  
  In a shrinking field of adventure games there are few pickings so beggers can't be choosers... I 
 just wish funcom would remember who made them in the first place.... PCgamers!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  The original longest journey was one of the best adventure game of all time. Even though the journey 
 was long, it wasn't enough for the fans so the sequel is finally here after long 6 years of waiting.
 
  
  The original longest journey didn't offer much except for great storyline when it was first released. 
 The graphic was behind it's era, the gameplay was almost irrelevant with no battle or anything. 
 It was just point and click. You couldn't die in that game no matter what! Also the original game 
 didn't even have sexy female main character. April Ryan in the original game might've been the 
 ugliest female main character in history of video game. Still, the fans loved her for her witty 
 remarks and her oh so normal life style. 
  
  The sequel returns with quite a number of changes. First the story is quite different. It is still 
 the same world, but 10 years after the first longest journey. The main character is no longer April 
 Ryan, but Zoe Castillo. Although the story continues, the nature of the story is quite different. 
 In the first game, the story was far less intense. For quite a bit, the story revolved around April's 
 personal issues like tuition for her art school and her grades and such. Also you meet all the 
 interesting people like the owner of your dorm who happens to be a lesbian and such. All this regular 
 everyday people of that world that seems not too different from our world was the strongest charm 
 of the Longest Journey. The sequel does come with such characters, but less to the extent. You 
 don't experiance the same type of depth and attactment from these characters and the story starts 
 to revolve more around the mysteries that is present in the game. The mood is quite different in 
 this game and that takes away one of the reason why fans loved the original game so much.
  
  Another thing that is missing is the witty remarks April Ryan used to make. She is still in 
 the game as one of the 3 playable character, but she isn't witty like before and now she is quite 
 bitter woman. Older and more beautiful in the sequel, she is less lovable and does seem like her 
 personality changed alot. The new main character Zoe is here to replace April Ryan for witty remarks, 
 but she just isn't witty as the original April Ryan. That's where the sequel loses more charm from 
 the original game.
  
  Stil, the story of Dreamfall is one of the strongest I've seen. It is 90% of the reason why you 
 should get this game and other 10% goes to presentation. It is quite like reading a good book, 
 but with interactions to make it non readers out there take easier approach. However, the story 
 is alot weaker than the first game because it lost so much minor details compare to the original 
 game which made it so charming. 
  
  Still as all sequels do, Dreamfall comes with improvements. First going on with only thing sequels 
 can do would be return of all the familar places and faces. It is quite interesting to see friends 
 of April and what happened to them and the locations of the original game and how they changed. 
 Also the story relies heavily on the events that happened before, although even if you didn't play 
 the original the sequel don't confuse the players with such thing. It is nice extra for the fans 
 who played the original game as they will no doubt notice many characters and places and events 
 that happened in the previous game. If you haven't played the original, it won't hinder you from 
 playing dreamfall, it just means you missed whole lot by not playing the one of the best adventure 
 game of all time. The penalties of not playing the original isn't harsh in the second game unlike 
 some sequels that has the story continued, such as Final Fantasy X-2 or Kingdom Hearts II. In other 
 words, new comers will fit right in and old timers would enjoy it much more because the can recongnize 
 these places.
  
  However not all is great because these characters return. some character like Charle, who used 
 to have jamacian accent if i remember it right (it has been 6 years since i played the original) , 
 now has more of street accent. Although they are same character it feels quite different. I guess 
 10 years changes people and that's how I should accept it. Also some characters, you will be disappointed 
 of knowing how they changed. After all not everyone is happy. But thats more of personal thing 
 as a fan rather than story related. As the story goes their changes does make sense and transferred 
 over to the sequel quite flawlessly. 
  
  Like I said 90% of the reason why you should get Dreamfall is the story. For the fans who played 
 the original, it might be slight disappointment because the story lost some of the charm, but they 
 will still no doubt enjoy the story almost as much as the original. I wouldn't say more than original 
 for sure, but some will enjoy it as much and some might enjoy it slightly less but still enjoy 
 it far more than other stories. Personally i found the story not as strong as the original game, 
 but the game does have quite a big shoe to fill in so I can't blame the developers for that. 
 
  
  Moving on the the other 10%. The presentation.
  
  The graphic of the Dreamfall isn't quite up to standards these days in terms of techonology, but 
 the worlds they have created and the characters are quite done well and belivable. They are all 
 charming in their own way and they will get the fans attached to them, but unfortunately unlike 
 the first game the depth to all these characters aren't deep. You won't find much as you would 
 like about all these characters. Their strong personalities and characteristics feels like its 
 all wasted because story never reaches out to them unlike the original. Still the mood you get 
 from this game and how it portrays the world they created is top notch. The music goes well with 
 the world and the story to capture the mood quite well. The voice acting is also great, but both 
 the script and voice acting isn't good as the original game. Still both the script and voice acting 
 is great and quite engaging.
  
  Now for the stuff that doesn't matter as much. Gameplay.
  
  This could be one of the worst game in terms of gameplay. The mechanics are very very simple 
 and the control is quite horrendous, but oddly I still had quite fun with gameplay mechanics.
 
  
  In the sequel, you can die. There are some puzzles that require stealth that will kill you. It 
 is quite annoying but there are some stealth aspect that is enjoyable. It isn't like playing Metal 
 Gear Solid or anything and it is quite simple, but it is good way to mix things up.
  
  Also all three characters have fighting mechanics. This is slow and unresponsive, but still manages 
 to be fairly enjoyable considering the type of game it is. you rarely fight in this game and it 
 is just about pressing a button at right timing, but it does add some excitement to the game.
 
  
  Perhaps the most disappointing part of the game would be puzzle. No longer you have the puzzles 
 that just twist all parts of your brain. They are quite straightfoward puzzles and the clues won't 
 be far from where you need it. For a game that requires quite alot of puzzles, weak simple puzzles 
 are nothing but a way to make you do something while getting to next point of the story. Still, 
 some puzzles will leave you wondering for a bit to figure it out and now it is far less frustrating 
 since the puzzles won't drive anyone crazy.
  
  Overall, Dreamfall doesn't really feel like sequel but another adventure game. The game mechanic 
 is alot different from before, and the story in its nature doesn't feel quite the same. Still alot 
 of noticible characters reminds you that this is the same world and draws the original fans right 
 back in the world that the previous journey took place in while they are able to enjoy new aspect 
 of the game. However, new comers to the game will enjoy it quite alot but will not be able to taste 
 what the original game was like and why it was called as one of the best adventure game of all 
 time. If you want an adventure game that has great stories and presentation, this is definitely 
 a game to get, but if you want action game or such stay away from it. Also if you want to know 
 what the original game was like, this is still not the game for you. get the original if you want 
 to see what it was like, but get this too because it is quite a game and a journey worth to take.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsuperman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Ah Dreamfall. The little spawn, of the greatest game I've ever played, The Longest Journey.
  
  Sound and visuals are amazing, truly a delight for the senses.
  The story, while it lasts, 
 is fascinating and entertaining.
  
  There is very little to explore though in the game, so there is little point to attempting to "savour" 
 the experience. It is generally a movie that walks you from point A to point B. Puzzles are few 
 and far between, and none are challenging. 
  
  There is a new "feature", called the focus field. Essentially a blue ran of light that you can 
 spin around your character and highlights anything that's important in the world. I really disliked 
 it, took away the whole "adventure" and discovery part of the game. I felt like everything was 
 handed to me on a silver platter.
  
  Also the fact that the game is 10 hours long, even at a slow pace if you listen to every conversation 
 and explore everything, is dissapointing. 
  Granted the game was only 39.99, but the expectations were so high, being the followup to such 
 an amazing, genre-changing game.
  
  The game ends on a sour note, but as long as there is a part 2, it can be forgiven, and you can 
 enjoy the game for what it was, an amazing journey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artephius
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  Being a big fan of TLJ I have to say my review may be a little biased. 
  
  Gameplay:
  There didn't seem to be any issues with the controls. The only problem I had with the gameplay 
 was the fighting and sneaking. These two seemed to bring more frustration than fun. It was also 
 a little on the short side clocking in at around 10 hours. The longest journey?
  
  Graphics: 
  It ain't Oblivion, but it still looks great and should be playable across a wider 
 variety of machines.
  
  Sound:
  Like it's predecessor the sounds, voice acting, and soundtrack are all way above par.
  
  Value:
 
  I would have to say there's more value for fans of the original than for newcomers.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  It's "The Longest Journey". For me that makes it an instant classic. My thanks 
 to Ragnar Trnquist for a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazanarkand
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Dreamfall was recently released and I was amazed by the story!
  
  I started out learning the game... once u get the hang of it! it works perfectly
  
  Pros: Story 
 is great, graphics a 7/10, sound is 10/10! 
  
  Cons: It would have worked better with a Nvidia built design but ati works somewhat good. 
  Takes 
 time to learn
  
  All in All great game that will give u hours of excitement. I would recommend this a buy. I have 
 been waiting a long time for this game and the wait paid off... 
  
  If your looking for a gift for a certain someone i would give to a person 10 or above... a little 
 hard to follow at a young age.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruca
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  Don't ask how i got it. i just did. And it's amazing. I think it may be better than the original 
 TLJ. I just hope it's even LONGER. The characters look so much better and the whole world it's 
 just amazing. Much better intteraction and dialogs. I can't wait to finish this review.... i must 
 PLAY 
  
  In other words.... i give it a 9.9 for the best action-adventure game around. It doesn't look like 
 farenheit like many people said. It's like the old one but much , much better looking and bug free.
 
  
  I will suspend all of my online games for some weeks. :D 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
