-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Driver
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/driver/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 847 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Reflections
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date:     Sep 10, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Driver's core game design is so strikingly original and fun that it can be enjoyed without embellishment. 
 

 Like many console-to-PC ports, Driver suffers from being translated verbatim and taking little advantage 
 of the more powerful PC platform. However, Driver's core game design is so strikingly original 
 and fun that it can be enjoyed without embellishment.  

 As its name implies, Driver is a game about driving - at dangerous speeds through densely populated 
 city streets. The game was designed by the makers of the Destruction Derby series and casts you 
 as an undercover 1970s policeman motoring your way into the heart of mob territory through the 
 criminal application of your cop-honed driving skills. Rather than focussing on racing as in Microsoft's 
 recent city-cruising game Midtown Madness, Driver is all about the interactive re-creation of classic 
 car-chase movies like Bullitt and Freebie and the Bean. Pursuit, evasion, survival, and the judicious 
 implementation of all-out vehicular mayhem compose the core of the action.  

 Most car games that dispense with racing replace it with predictable hood-mounted gunplay. Not so 
 with Driver: You pilot an array of big bazooka-less American muscle cars that belch exhaust and 
 run great on regular gas - the most dangerous thing shooting out of these wheeled hellhounds is 
 an illegal mix of carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon pollutants. To succeed in Driver, you must master 
 the art of driving like a maniac with precision and control.  

 Those skills are developed in Driver's main game, a mission-based trek through the streets of Miami, 
 San Francisco, Los Angeles, and New York. The missions are presented as job offers left on an answering 
 machine in a three-dimensional rendering of your character's sleazy apartment, which also acts 
 as the in-game option screen. Your car has two basic attributes: damage and felony. Damage is simply 
 a reverse life bar - when it reaches its upper limit, the car is trashed and the mission ends in 
 failure. Felony is a measurement of police interest in your current activities. It increases if 
 any police cruiser witnesses your vehicle operating illegally. As it rises, the cops will begin 
 to actively pursue you, eventually taking such drastic measures as establishing roadblocks and 
 calling in reinforcements. This gauge introduces a rather original play concept: To win, you must 
 sometimes drive within the limits of the law. Crawling through a busy intersection at a soul-deadening 
 speed while making a rare appearance on the correct side of the road and hoping to God the cop 
 stopped at the light doesn't notice the black smoke pouring out of your crumpled hood is an exciting 
 experience unique to Driver.  

 You'll also enjoy discovering the many creative ways in which Reflections has used the relatively 
 simple components of its gameworld to concoct a wide variety of interesting scenarios. The missions 
 range from timed trips across town, aggressive pursuits of other vehicles, and eluding the fuzz, 
 to unusual and surprising tasks such as scaring the hell out of an informant by taking him on a 
 wild ride, and sending a message to another gang by smashing through the plate-glass windows of 
 its legitimate businesses. Saving the game is only permitted between missions, but it's a testament 
 to the game's success that this fact never becomes a liability. Playing Driver is such great fun 
 and the levels are designed with enough common-sense brevity that restarting a mission almost never 
 becomes frustrating. Car physics are definitely more arcade-like than realistic, but they make 
 for a thrilling mix of impossible, hubcap-flinging turns and stomach-dropping jumps, especially 
 when careening through the streets of San Francisco.  

 Once you've completed the game's nearly 50 missions, you can keep yourself occupied with Driver's 
 skills-testing bonus games. Seven are included, the best being survival, in which you must escape 
 a pack of kamikaze police cruisers for as long as possible. Even with an entire city to drive through, 
 the cops are incredibly difficult to elude. But for the average minute, or the extraordinary two 
 minutes, that it takes them to capture you, it's a real blast. Better yet, true to Driver's cinematic 
 roots, a full replay facility is available, complete with a wide variety of camera placement features. 

 Although undeniably enjoyable, Driver isn't without noticeable flaws. The graphics are good but 
 not up to the standard set by Midtown Madness. The cities are somewhat blocky, and the building 
 textures are often blurry and repetitive. The soundtrack is forgettable, generic '70s funk, and 
 the in-game movies are pretty awful. Driver's mission-loading times, though not unbearable, actually 
 seem to be longer than on the console version. Restarting a mission on the PlayStation was an instantaneous 
 process, but on the PC, the level must be reloaded from scratch. Finally, aside from some graphical 
 enhancements, nothing significant has been added to the game since its console debut. Most sorely 
 missing is any kind of multiplayer mode.  

 However, none of these drawbacks should deter you from picking up Driver. It is addictive, intuitive, 
 and fun, which are qualities sometimes overlooked in the industry's myopic pursuit of purely technical 
 innovation. With Driver, Reflections has produced the definitive re-creation of the classic urban 
 car-chase movie and has quite possibly introduced a new genre of driving game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NoseWeed619
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  You are Tanner, a former racecar driver-turned-cop. Because of your past as a racer, you are sent 
 on an undercover mission as a wheelman for hire in order to investigate the Castaldi crime family. 
 The investigation will take you to Miami, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and New York, but before 
 you can get these cities, you must take a driving test and prove that you have the skills to be 
 a wheelman. After passing the test, tackle the missions of the story mode, which has over 40 missions 
 that involve picking up and dropping off items or pursuing and disabling other cars. One of the 
 major obstacles to completing your goals is the cops; they don't know that you are undercover, 
 and letting you pass would blow your cover. If being chased around keeps giving you fits, use the 
 free-ride mode and explore any of the cities at your own pace. With Driver, you are the wheelman. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Driver 
  
  This game is a good game but is no out dated. 
  
  The game play 
  
  In this game you just drive a car and do races and do stunts in the car park and try not to write 
 your car off. 
  
  The graphics are good but if this game came out or another game the same the graphics could be 
 improved because the car looks like it is made from squares and rectangle, when you crash you can 
 see the damage and the car has black smoke coming from the engine and you can loose your hub caps 
 if you crash and the side of you car hits an object. 
  
  The sounds are quite good and when you crash the car it sounds real and the engine sound very good 
 and you can hear your engine when it is damaged and when you park up it ticking over and the best 
 part is when you accelerate you can hear the engine power up. 
  
  When you accelerate from a stand still it does exactly what a real car does the front lifts up 
 and the back goes down. 
  
  This is a good game but if another game like this comes out I hope the graphics are a lot better. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 12, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Driver was the classic that spawned the great Driver 2, decent DRIV3R and the bad Driver: Parallel 
 Lines. This is the one I like second best, Driver 2 being my favorite. It has many different game 
 modes, such as Missions, and.... well...... other stuff. Like getting away from the cops!! Ya, you 
 can't argue with that! My favorite part of Driver was doing an epic chase, then watching it from 
 different angles and saving it in! That is unlimitedly fun! The other shining element is the game 
 mode where all you do is crash cars in an invincible destroying machine! (That's actually just your 
 normal car, using magic, or something) It's like Burnout Revenge's Traffic Attack, except more 
 fun using the camera thing. The one thing that bothers me is the annoying training mission that 
 takes forever to do, and you can't do missions until you finish it. So, it's not hard to get this 
 game for $10. Cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  It's basically GTA without having to walk around really. Your missions are all very similiar, drive 
 here, do this, drive somewhere else, escape etc, but the best part of the game is evading the police. 
 I haven't played a game that has been as exciting as Driver when it comes to police chases, for 
 pure fun and excitement Driver is the best i've played so far. As your illegal driving type meter 
 gets higher and higher, the police get smarter and smarter, not to mention psychotic. If you're 
 stuck between a car and a hard place, the police will RAM you until your car blows up. If the police 
 were like this in real life, not to mention the numbers on the road, I doubt there would be a lot 
 of traffic offenses, you'd be too scared! But as you finally escape the police and you no longer 
 hear sirens behind/infront/beside you, you'll feel a great sense of relief, until the cops find 
 you that is... Your car handles well, and while it doesn't go super fast it gets the job done. Gameplay 
 is excellent and exciting, but the graphics are probably where it suffers. Car detail is quite 
 poor, as are buildings, they both look boring and are not well detailed at all. They look ok, just 
 not great. Sound is a problem as well, your car engine sounds weak for the kind of muscle car that 
 it appears to be. Personally, I edited the .wav file to make it sound better, but it would have 
 been better if I didn't need to. The only real problem with Driver is that by the end you could 
 feel quite bored. The story is pathetic and rather stupid, I usually skip the shockingly done cutscenes 
 and just get back to the driving, as the story just gets in the way. Even though there are a few 
 gripes about this game, it is still fun, and well worth the $5-$10 bucks you're likely to spend 
 on it. Just don't expect a graphics/sound/story masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satorn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  U wanna know why I think that vice city is better than it? ok cause vice city has more characters 
 ,more people in the streets &amp; carried weapons to use we can say that driver is the real face 
 of vice city , also it has the spirit of challenge more than vice city ( it's u against the cops) 
 .
  The coolest part is the ability to set game cheats .
  believe me when I play this game I leave everything behind and keep playing it till I get tired 
 . here are the cheats :
  
  Cheat Codes Go to ''Driving Games'' get a high score and enter the code as your name: Cheat Effect 
 WAC271074 No Police We4rrqdz Take a ride car select P7ttyRz Skip Interview N3WJ0rk Overhead View 
 TMR300866 Credits RUS3L Invincibility ANJW16696 Start as wanted person rallyhard Invisible NJW280172 
 Fast Cars SSHELLY Open cheat menu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigershark16000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  First off, let's just say that this game is incredibly fun. I've never gotten this much enjoyment 
 out of a driving game since NFS 1: SE. Even though it's not the most realistic game around (even 
 when it was released) , the physics and damage is convincing to the point that you think you're 
 watching a cheezy action movie's car chase. You'll constantly be powersliding into alleyways, hitting 
 dirt piles in construction zones (which may make the cops tailing you flip up on their sides, Blues 
 Brothers style, but maybe with only 3 or 4 cars instead of 80) . knocking over parking meters, jumping 
 over road medians, and losing hubcaps. It's beautiful. One of the most enjoyable and addicting features 
 in the game is the Director Mode. Here you can position cameras and make your own car chase scene. 
 This is where most of my hours came from. I would play the game JUST so I could change the cameras 
 in the replay over and over and over again. It just never got old (and it still wouldn't get old 
 if I could find the disc) .
  
  There are many modes of play. First off, you have "Undercover", which is the main campaign of the 
 game. Here you play over 40 insanely fun (and insanely hard!!) missions to play which progress 
 a story. One great touch is that you accept missions from inside a 3-d model of your apartment 
 or hotel. There is an answering machine and you decide which calls to return, which starts your 
 mission. Usually you are presented with multiple messages, so the campaign kind of branches, which 
 adds to the replay value. Other modes of play include: Pursiut, where you have to chase down somebody 
 and wreck their car. Getaway, which is the exact opposite, trailblazer, where you have to knock 
 down cones in the city until you get across town. Cross-town checkpoint, where you have to dodge 
 traffic and try to make it to the next checkpoint in under 5 seconds until you reach the other 
 end of the city, and dirt track, which is like trailblazer, but on a dirt road, where the car is 
 a bit more difficult to handle. Last but definately not least (and my personal favorite) is the 
 free ride mode. Here you just chill out in the city with no objectives or anything. You'd be surprised 
 how surreal and perhaps even fun it can be to obey the law after playing a high-speed law-breaking 
 mission. Although, you can break the law and get an awesome car chase going. This is the mode where 
 I directed most of the car chases. You have the entire city spread out before you, and you can 
 choose when to get into trouble, which makes for some interesting and adrenaline-pumping car chases.
 
  
  Now onto the boring stuff, such as graphics, sound etc. Graphics are dated, but they really weren't 
 bad when the game was released. The driving physics are a slightly (and delightfully) exaggerated, 
 to give it that action-movie flavor. The sound may not be that high-quality by today's standards, 
 but it's surprisingly functional. Sometimes you can forget to check your rear-view mirror in the 
 chaos of a high-speed chase, but you can hear how close the sirens are. This provides a good portion 
 of the adrenaline the game induces, since hearing a siren rapidly grow louder (with doppler effect 
 no less, if I remember correctly. Don't take that one to the bank) can give that feeling of "OH 
 CRAP!! WHY CAN"T I SPEED UP FASTER!??!?" It's really great.
  
  I would highly recommend this game if you can find it. It's really cheap, but it has loads of value 
 because of the infinite possibilities as far as car chases go in the free ride mode, the director 
 mode, and the many, many driving games (not to mention the really long campaign) you will definitely 
 get your money's worth many times over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: recvx_pagal
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Wow! Ive always wanted to be an undercover cop. Becoming the getaway driver for some of the most 
 dangerous men in the country has always been a dream of mine. Doing high-risk jobs for pimps, drug 
 dealers and the mafia has always appealed to me. Well maybe not. But this game gives you the chance 
 to do that anyway. And its all wrapped up in a nice little compact disk! Inside the disk unfolds 
 the story of an epic tale of an undercover cop named Rick Tanner that becomes the getaway driver 
 for a pimp/drug dealer in Miami. The story unfolds into a large fiasco that almost gets tanner 
 killed numerous times. All in all, its a great game with a revolutionary idea. In other games 
 you might be the cops, or maybe the bad guys, but not both at the same time!!! Thats what youve 
 got to love. No matter how much outrageous stuff you do, youre still a cop so in the end you get 
 off the hook easily. Granted, Driver 2 had better ideas that improved the experience of the game, 
 Driver was the first to offer a free roaming experience with an amazingly thrilling story to tag 
 along with it. Even the story was molded by the missions you chose. I would think of it more like 
 a tree than a story. Because there were so many different paths to chose. That story along with 
 many side games, breath-taking graphics, great control, and ultra realistic sound really pulled 
 this game together to create a sleeper hit. I picked it up July 3rd 1999, 2 days after it released 
 because of the hype that magazines had created. And I watched as the word spread about Driver and 
 its sales skyrocketed. But this game deserved all the praise it was given. 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  There is almost a library of different modes to play under. You can start off by cruising the 
 streets of San Francisco and Miami in Free Ride. Free Ride allows you to drive through city streets 
 with no place to go in particular, learning how to drive and honing your skills for more important 
 events. Once youve gotten a firm knowledge of the streets and handling characteristics, you can 
 take a stab at the undercover mode. Right off the bat, you are tested by having to perform a given 
 list of driving maneuvers to show that you are worthy of becoming a getaway driver for a African-American 
 man with a humongous afro named Rufus in the Miami area. Later in the game, you get more important 
 bosses and they depend on you much more for important missions. As if the missions arent hard 
 enough by themselves Theres still traffic to get through, a damage meter, a felony meter, and 
 a timer! So if you want to even think about beating a mission, you need to take agile, precautious, 
 law-abiding measures All while speeding! Pretty impossible sounding isnt it? Well, if you choose 
 to just forget about the law and speed as fast as you want, you can do that. Just dont think the 
 cops will agree with your decision. They will do what ever it takes to bring you down. Set up roadblocks, 
 ram you, and give you the ol P. I. T. maneuver. Theyre merciless, considering you are a cop yourself. 
 But I guess gangsters would wonder why you were speeding through town and cops werent doing anything 
 to stop you. Amazing that was only 2 modes of play. There are still 6 driving games! There is Pursuit, 
 which lets you take the role of the cops in their endless fight to subdue crime. Getaway kind of 
 reverses the roles of Pursuit and lets you take a crack at running from the law. This is a timed 
 event. Next is cross-town checkpoint. Every checkpoint gives you 5 seconds, so you better be quick 
 if you want to make it through all of the checkpoints. Unfortunately, cross-town checkpoint is 
 hard as hell because of all the obstacles, you really need to strike it lucky to get anywhere in 
 this game. Next on the long list of things is Trail Blazer. Unlike the others, the majority of 
 adventure in this mode takes place off road. Survival is basically an extremely hard version of 
 Getaway. One of the more memorable moments in this mode took place in San Francisco where the cops 
 and myself caught MAJOR air and flew for about 10 seconds. It was a huge rush of adrenaline; something 
 this game is good at doing. And last but not least, Dirt Track. Dirt Track is a timed event similar 
 to Trail Blazer. As you can see now, the list of things to do in this game is big enough to give 
 some people a headache. Its amazing what they can fit onto CDs now. Every single one of these 
 modes is worth playing for hours and hours, which really steps up the replay value. 
  10/10 
  
  Graphics 
  
  Top notch to say the least. The introduction video is quite entertaining 
 as it depicts a man stealing a muscle car from a parking lot and being chased by the cops shortly 
 after. The chase makes its way down to the main street where you veer out from the parking garage 
 and on to the street while the cop clips a passing car and loses control. For a first of its kind, 
 it certainly did a free roaming entirely 3D city amazingly well. Many people may say that Grand 
 Theft Auto 3 cities are the largest of their kind. But Im pretty sure that the cities in Driver 
 are MUCH bigger. The arent exactly full of interactive objects, but there are parts of levels 
 where you can knock down garbage cans, fences, picnic tables and even break through glass. Other 
 games, and even the sequel didnt sport this kind of interactive activity. You may be permanently 
 stuck in your car, but who needs anything else? Your car, no matter what level or mission, is amazing. 
 For example, take the main car in San Francisco. It appears to be a mix between a late 60s Ford 
 Galaxy and an early 70s Chevrolet Monte Carlo. It has decent acceleration, good braking, and even 
 sports tail lights and reverse lights. Sure this is a pretty car, but its not like its really 
 yours. So why not trash it? Well you can do that too! Ram the back a couple times and the shiny 
 chrome bumper wont look so wonderful anymore. Drive full speed into a wall and the hood of your 
 car will crumple exactly like a real car would. In a V shape. Get rammed a few too many times in 
 the side? Your cars going to look like a half demolished piece of crap by now. Smoke will billow 
 from under the hood and chances are, you wont even have hubcaps anymore. That surprising attention 
 to detail is what made this game such eye candy. Anyone who owns a Playstation will agree that 
 this game sports some of the best graphics seen on the aging dinosaur. 
  10/10 
  
  Sound 
  
  Music isnt very prevalent in Driver, but nonetheless, the music you hear is soothing 
 to the ears and mood setting. The main menu has quite an interesting song that has a 70s cop show 
 theme to it. If you choose to do undercover mode, you will be delighted by the music played before 
 each mission. It is so unique to the 70s and it really fits the whole theme. Although it sort 
 of borders on porno music. While you play, you are greeted to soft music in the background. Maybe 
 it isnt loud enough to hear, but there are more important things to hear in this game. Like the 
 roar of the engine. I love the way Reflections and GT Interactive created such life-like noises. 
 From the start of the level, press circle to gun it and see what I mean! Its just absolutely breath 
 taking as you hear the roar of a big block American V-8 creating an enormous force that sends the 
 back wheels squealing, desperately trying to grasp the pavement below. The realism of it all is 
 perfect. 
  10/10 
  
  Control 
  
  Might be hard to begin with, but once you know the controls, you shouldnt have a problem with 
 them. The cars control pretty well, considering they are 300 hp muscle cars. I find that the controls 
 have more of an arcade style way of handling than simulation. But hey, this isnt Gran Turismo 
 is it? Most of the time, there shouldnt be a problem finding your way around corners and you can 
 even use L1 to make sharper turns. If youre trying to make haste, you can either use X and drive 
 away like any normal person would, or you can use Circle and lay some rubber on the pavement as 
 your roar away. It takes the same time either way, so I suggest you just use X because its easier 
 to control, especially when you arent driving in a straight line. If you use circle while turning, 
 youll just spin yourself a million times, and if you keep your finger on circle, youll never 
 recover. Another outstanding category for this great game. 
  10/10 
  
  Difficulty --- Moderate/High 
  
  Im pretty sure the hardest part about this game is the initiation 
 test. Ive played through the game a few times, and I still think that trying to do all 10 stunts 
 in a minute is pretty much impossible. Well maybe not impossible, but it takes a great deal of 
 skill to overcome. Once you get into the missions, they get progressively harder until finally, 
 you throw your controller at your television and scream unspeakable words at your Playstation. 
 But no worries, those missions dont come until much later in the game. As for the driving games, 
 none of them are too hard, and none of them actually reward you with anything except for bragging 
 rights and a fun time. The hardest of the 6 would probably be survival. Most people probably wont 
 make it 30 seconds in that game. 
  
  Replay Value 
  
  There is a lot to be done in this game. The average player will probably play through the undercover 
 mode once or twice. Which doesnt fair too bad considering there are A LOT of missions to be done. 
 There are still the driving games that you can compete against your friends, trying to get the 
 best score or time. That can take up a lot of time. You can also just drive around the city, which 
 boosts the replay value dramatically. I cant remember how many hours I spent just driving around 
 the city looking for interesting things. But the cities are so big that even if you do find something 
 worth noting, chances are youll never see it again or have a lot of trouble finding it. There 
 are at least 150 hours of game time before someone would get bored. 
  9/10 
  
  Pros 
  -Huge levels 
  -Detailed cars 
  -Amazing sounds 
  -70s porn music (hehehehe) 
  
  Cons 
 
  -Some of the FMV sequences look a little choppy 
  -Extremely challenging 
  -That damn initiation test 
  
  Overall 
  
  Anyone with a Playstation should own this game. 
 There are simply not enough good things to say about it to convince people to buy it. GT Interactive 
 isnt well known among the video gaming world, but they certainly showed that they could compete 
 with the rest of them. And they brought the wonderful idea of a free roaming 3D city to the gaming 
 public which has spawned more classics like Driver 2, Grand Theft Auto 3, and Wreckless: The Yakuza 
 missions. If you do not own this game I strongly suggest you buy it now. You should be able to 
 find it in any store and it should only be about 10-15 dollars U. S. now, which is practically a 
 steal when you see what you get. If you have Driver 2, pick this up and see what you missed the 
 first time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir_Badshah
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Driver is one of the best Driving games ever, and i'll still play it..!
  
  Graphic: Good, and very High detailed - Now it's not so interesting... But i can tell you that 
 it was...!
  
  Gameplay: Realistic Damages, Cars and not too hard to handel it'... The Driving basic is the most 
 importent, and the most Awesome'st thing in the game.
  
  Sound: Awesome Siren, but you maybe get tired of it after ca.45min. Sweet sound of the Gripping 
 Tires. And the speciel 3D sound of the other traffic cars.
  (You can hear it, if you're driving on the wrong side of the road = Do it on a highway= And the 
 other cars will horn at you. Notice the sound while you driving 80mph.
  
  Music: On the ps1 the music is alot better, in here is okay... But, the main menu's music sounds 
 very 70's :)
  
  Value: You have to buy it! I Recommend that you play it. On ps1 it's maybe harder on PC.
  
 
  Extra: The Traffic, the chases and the City's looks so Real. = Miami, San Frasisco, Las Vegas 
 and New York=
  And the Incridible FILM DIRECTOR!!!!!!!! The awesome tool in driver is the Film Director were you 
 can make you own movie!
  And the Suviver mode is a the most funniest but also most unrealistics mode in the game, (better 
 on ps1) The police Attack you and there cars are TOP TUNED, and do not try to crash into them, 
 just Run for you life!
  
  9.7 for this GREAT game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerkeer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Yes. Driver is old. I remember getting Driver shipped together with my Dell-System, and that was 
 years ago.
  
  Despite it's age, you can confidently say that it is a classic. If you compare it to the following 
 installments of this release. 
  Although you cant get out of your car in this game.. it is way superior to Driv3r, for instance, 
 by lengths..
  
  The physics of this game absolutely convinced me. You notice best when cruising around the San-Francisco 
 streets with nice possibilities for big jumps.
  
  The mission design is sweet.. very fast-paced and demanding. But not too hard, although you might 
 have to try several times in some of the missions.
  
  The graphics and sound are very suitable.. and i was impressed by the quality at the time when 
 this game was released.
  
  It's a pitty that this developer team did not stick to their own ideas.. they tried to approach 
 GTA by making it possible to walk out of the car and shoot your enemies, which was a big mistake. 
 Specially with the awful gameplay which was noticed in Driv3r when not being in a car.
  
  I assume the Engine is just not suited for "Outdoor" Action, and i am pretty sure that they would 
 have been very succesful with the latter releases.. if they would not have let themselves being 
 influenced by the masses.
  
  It would have become some kind of "market hole".. it's really sad as i liked Driver alot and was 
 always waiting for a good succesor.
  
  At least we've still got the possibility to try Driver 1.
  
  Give yourself a bump and try it 
 out. ;)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Great game, great cars, ok story.
  This game both for PC and PS1 is great and hours of fun. I spent quite a few hours playing before 
 deciding to use the cheat codes. Some of the levels get pretty difficult with the traffic and the 
 time limits seem impossible (hence the cheat codes) The graphics are very good and the audio track 
 is pretty good too. The story is kind of fun but the driving and game play is where all wrongs 
 are un-done. Sliding around the turns and hitting some of the bumps, causing jumps, is fun and 
 a great ride. As far as driving games go this one is very good. Again nice with most of my reviews 
 this is old school and this one can be picked up cheap!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 6, 2005 4:01 am PT
Review:  I owned the original Driver on PS1. Then again, who hasnt? And I have to say, Im not all that surprised. 
 One you learn the cheats for this game, its all over but the driving. 
  
  If you didnt know: Tanner is an undercover cop working for the Miami PD when his boss wants him 
 to go underground. The choice of job: wheelman. The job: drive. Simple? It is. Too simple. Once 
 you get this down on the PS, this game seems like deja vu. The gameplay is the same. No cars have 
 been changed, except graphics wise, and no part of the story is messed with. At least, not that 
 I can think of. The cops are brainless, oh and the cops in this game are too.
  
  The graphics are the exact same as on the PS version, which makes it a bit of a disappointment. 
 With the power of someones PC, they could have made the graphics go beyond just a simple circle. 
 But this was a simpler time. A time before reflective mapping and all anyone ever cared about was 
 whether or not you got a PS or an N64. Idiots.
  
  The sound, dont get me started. The same engine sound from rev to stop. On 90% of the cars. The 
 voiceacting is pretty clear, I love it on the answering machine when you get that message from 
 the hick, or the Chinese guy. The crashing sounds are synthetic and sound more like a garbage can 
 being knocked on from far away rather than crunching steel.
  
  The game can go on for what seems like forever, then its over. You can at least switch cars and 
 drive those. But unless your doing freeride with cops on and invincibility plugged in, your not 
 going to have fun. 
  
  This game is good to play if your going to look back on it someday. But if you want to turn this 
 thing into a full-blown religion by itself, drink your cyanide punch now, its better than playing 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juglo
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 7, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Driver, Its a very small game and took me about two and a Half hours to finish. Once you finish 
 "Underground" one of the many games in it. You will unlock cheats, Cars, and Lots more! Thats when 
 it Starts getting Addictive! Its Graphics are about a 9 for its time. There nothing compared to 
 NFS Series but Are a un-eek way in its own! It is not a simulation game like NFS but an Arcade 
 Style of Game. If you are a fan of Arcade Style Type games then I would have to say that this is 
 the game for You! It went down hill on the sounds are definitely not impressive! The Value of it 
 Is about an eight in My book. The Reviewers Tilt is about a nine. Over all the Game is an Instant 
 Classic! and One for everyone to Enjoy!
  
  Tim.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMWota91
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2005 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I really think this game is alot better than many games on pc. With really textured graphics, perfect 
 sound, perfect gameplay, and great tilt I still am honored to give this game a 10. I think reflections 
 should really be prood on their work and I hope they keep it up. I would even give the game 11 
 out of 10 if I made it an improved version with more fixes and features. The missions I think were 
 all excellent. I have to say I enjoyed all the missions in the game. If reflections make driver 
 4 for ps2 andeven pc then I would appreciate them to include all the great driving missions, online, 
 multiplayer upto4 or 8 people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 26, 2003 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I had Driver for the PlayStation a few years ago, and it was one of my favorite games for the PlayStation. 
 Now I saw this game for the PC in EB Games for only $4.99, then I thought I should gaive the PC 
 version a try.
  The game is basically the same thing thing as the PlayStaion, but with improments on some spots 
 of the game, for example, the map looks a lot better here. The first time I played this game it 
 was hard for me, because the default control of the game is really weird, but you can go to the 
 Options menu and change the control of the game (You can choose between all usual keys on the keyboard) .
 
  
  GAMEPLAY = 9
  You can basically choose control between all keys on the keyboard. Superb stuff!
  
  GRAPHICS 
 = 8
  The graphics are solid, and improved a little bit from the PlayStation version.
  
  SOUND = 8
  The sound is just fine, and again improved a little bit from the PlayStation version.
 
  
  WHAT IS THIS GAME ABOUT?:
  This is a mission-based game you got the Undercover Mode witch takes you with over 40 missions 
 on Miami, San Francisco, Los Angeles, and New York (this is the mode where you unlock basically 
 everything in the game) . In the missions you do all types of stuff like pursue bad guys, run from 
 the police, etc..
  
  OVERALL:
  This game was for sure worth my money, again I bought it for only $4.99, but I know you can find 
 this game at any place for less than $10, and it will still be worth your money. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
