-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: DRIV3R
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/driver3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awful control.
 Broken physics.
 Horrific AI.
 Weak voice work.
 Poor textures.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 28, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.8
Critic Score: 4.1, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 4.9, 1,424 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Reflections
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date:     Mar 15, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Don't waste your time with Driver 3. 

  Nine months separate the PC release of Driver 3 from the release of its console counterparts. A 
 sane, logical type of person might assume that the large gap between the borderline-broken console 
 versions and the newly released PC edition was used to fix the game's serious problems. But those 
 people would be mistaken. Driver 3 for the PC is just about as broken as it was on the Xbox and 
 PlayStation 2 last year, and thanks to the ill-conceived introduction of a mouse and keyboard into 
 the mix, it manages to be even worse, overall.  

          Driver 3's cutscenes are one of its few strengths.     

  The Driver series is helmed 
 by an undercover cop named Tanner. This time around, Tanner is trying to infiltrate a Miami-based 
 car thief ring, which is working to steal 40 exotic cars and ship them out of Miami. Part of the 
 game's story involves finding out who the thieves in the car ring are working for, where the cars 
 are going, and who's double-crossing whom. You'll start out in Miami, eventually make your way 
 to Nice for some French car chases, and you'll also spend some time in Istanbul. The story is mostly 
 told via prerendered cutscenes that fall somewhere between a music video and a movie in terms of 
 style and inspiration. Generally speaking, the cutscenes look pretty good. In fact, the cutscenes 
 are probably the best part about Driver 3.  

  Despite featuring three large cities to drive in, Driver 3's main mode is a linear, mission-based 
 game that sends you on mission after mission until you've unraveled the game's story. Each mission 
 has clear-cut objectives, like chasing after a guy who double-crossed your gang, stealing three 
 cars and driving them into the back of a moving truck before the truck gets to its destination, 
 or driving around on an enemy's turf and busting up the place by crashing through exploding barrels 
 and other objects. At the end of every mission, you're given the option to save and then you can 
 continue on to the next mission. The missions tend to vary from city to city, but the lackluster 
 gameplay really prevents many of the missions from being much fun.  

  For a game called "Driver," you may be surprised to find yourself spending quite a lot of time 
  out  of your car, and that's where the first significant gameplay problem comes to light: The 
 on-foot action is awful. Your control over Tanner is stiff, at best. You can fire weapons, you 
 can halfheartedly jump, and you can duck to perform some pretty lame rolls. While you probably 
 wouldn't expect much more from a gruff undercover guy like Tanner, all of his movements look stilted 
 and jittery, and the gunplay -- despite giving you access to a number of different pistols, submachine 
 guns, an assault rifle, a shotgun, and a grenade launcher -- is decidedly underwhelming. The combat 
 in the game isn't tense at all, and it mostly consists of running up to enemies and blasting them... before 
 they blast back, if possible. However, the game is pretty liberal with the health packs, so you 
 can certainly trade shots with most of your foes without worrying too much. Since most of the game's 
 artificial intelligence is incompetent, you can usually get the drop on the bad guys.  

          Driver's technical issues really get in the way of the rest of the game.     

  The 
 game's driving portions are better than the on-foot stuff, but not all that much better. You're 
 given a map of the city with a pretty clear indication of where to go, and you're usually in a 
 hurry, so there isn't much time to explore the game's cities in the story mode. The physics behind 
 the driving appear to be designed to give you that '70s-cop-show-car-chase feel, in that everything 
 has been exaggerated. Even the slightest turn around a corner is a tire-screeching, sliding-out 
 affair. Getting slammed hard by a cop car might send you flying into the air, causing you to barrel-roll 
 a half-dozen times before crashing back to Earth.     

  The problem is that the driving isn't especially fun, as you constantly feel more like you're fighting 
 to stay in control of the car than skillfully outmaneuvering your pursuers. Sometimes you'll hit 
 a ramp and land just fine; and sometimes you'll land differently and roll your car, forcing you 
 to retry a mission. There are also some discrepancies between what you can and can't drive through. 
 Some objects will let you drive right through them, while others will stop all of your forward 
 progress with a loud, damaging crash. What's more, it's even occasionally possible to crash  into 
  objects like streetlights or trees, essentially making it look like the streetlight or other object 
 is growing out of the middle of your car. This causes your car to become completely stuck.  

          The AI routines make the game's cops look like complete idiots.     

  The driving 
 AI isn't much better than the on-foot AI, either. Police chases -- which happen more often in the 
 game's additional modes than they do in the main story -- are especially ridiculous. Cops basically 
 aren't smart enough to get out of their cars and shoot at you unless they can get close enough 
 to you. So, for example, if you were to jump over a guardrail and swim out into the water surrounding 
 Miami, a cop that's pursuing you would simply drive his car into that guardrail, back up, and then 
 drive into that guardrail over and over again. If you can get the cops to get out of their cars, 
 they aren't much smarter.  

  A big part of the problem with Driver 3 lies in its control. Both on foot and in a car, your control 
 over the action is limited, at best. The game supports analog gamepads as well as a mouse and keyboard. 
 If you spend some time configuring the controls, you can get a dual analog controller to function 
 much like it would in the console versions of the game, but your ability to turn with an analog 
 controller is severely limited. Tanner turns very slowly, then suddenly accelerates his turning. 
 This makes drawing a bead on anything nearly impossible. The mouse and keyboard might not have 
 that problem, but they have plenty of others. Steering with keys on the keyboard simply isn't refined 
 enough to deal with the game's sloppy car physics, making even the most rudimentary car chase a 
 real chore. Also, if there were an award for "worst default control scheme," Driver 3 would win 
 it, hands down. Why, exactly, would anyone make the 5 key on the keypad the "fire weapon" button 
 and leave the mouse buttons unmapped? The default control scheme is clearly an exercise in insanity. 
 After some trial-and-error, it's possible to reconfigure the keys to make the game playable. Well, 
 as playable as this game's going to get, anyway.  

  Aside from the main story mode, the game also has a few secondary modes, though they really don't 
 add much to the experience. You can opt to simply drive around a city in the "take a ride" mode. 
 There are also some driving games to play, such as checkpoint races, a survival mode that forces 
 you to last as long as possible against the game's dopey, crash-happy police AI, and so on. You 
 can also save replays and edit them by inserting different camera angles, slow-motion effects, 
 and so forth.  

  A big part of what makes Driver 3 so bad is a series of technical, graphical glitches that make 
 the game look like an absolute mess. You can run it in a wide variety of video resolutions, and 
 you can fiddle with the draw distance and antialiasing, as well. When you get it all turned on, 
 Driver 3 actually starts to look pretty good... provided you're standing still. In motion, Driver 
 3 is a flickery mess. After testing the game out on a few different video cards, it seems that 
 the lighting has been programmed to flicker on and off everything. At times, Tanner's whole head 
 is lit up like the sun is hitting it directly, while the rest of him stays dark. As you drive around 
 the city, objects like trees and buildings flicker like crazy. And when you run the game in higher 
 resolutions, the textures start to really look like trash.  

          Driver 3's voice cast carries some Hollywood-caliber names, but no Hollywood-caliber performances. 
     

  The sound side of things is pretty underwhelming. Car engines and the like sound appropriately 
 throaty. But the game is missing a lot of the little touches that would help it sound more alive. 
 When a car takes too much damage to continue on, the engine merely stops making noise and the car 
 rolls to a stop. A more prevalent sputtering noise, or something to that effect, would have helped. 
 Most of the gunfire is rather subdued and unimpressive -- this only serves to make the on-foot combat 
 seem even more ineffectual. Additionally, the game's voice work is quite stiff. Michael Madsen 
 voices Tanner, and while his gruff, gravelly voice fits the character, the delivery is a little 
 too flat and uninterested. Similar criticisms can be said about most of the voice cast, including 
 Michelle Rodriguez, whose performance as Calita is phoned-in and wooden. Other voices on the cast 
 include Mickey Rourke, Iggy Pop, and Ving Rhames, who plays your partner in the game and narrates 
 most of the cutscenes. The game's music is most prevalent during the cutscenes, and it works with 
 the action quite well, giving the game's noninteractive sequences a slightly more cinematic feel. 

  Driver 3 is full of the sorts of glitches and problems that final retail products shouldn't have. 
 On top of that, a recently released patch for the game doesn't fix many of its showstopping problems. 
 The control is terrible, the visuals are buggy, and the AI is straight-up broken. Short of being 
 threatened at gunpoint, there's no acceptable reason to play this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: skojic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Well, well... It's been what, a couple of years now right? Maybe more? Still, Driv3r impresses 
 me. I was eagerly anticipating this game with my brother when it was first about to come out on 
 the PS2. He hated it. Me? I enjoyed it.
  
  So here's why I liked it: it wasn't the graphics. Even back in '04, these graphics were nothing 
 we haven't seen before. In fact, they were quite mediocre if not horrible. You'll find yourself 
 laughing when you see that the characters' mouths don't move when they speak. The music is a nice 
 touch, though. There's some great songs in this game. The cutscenes are quality, too. The story 
 is a cross between "The Fast and the Furious" and "The Transporter". In other words, quite good. 
 Plus, Jericho is a bad@ss. The voice-over cast is top-notch. Michael Madsen, Mickey Rourke, Michelle 
 Rodriguez, Ving Rhames, etc.
  
  And now we come to the gameplay and my favorite part. So what is it that I like about this game 
 so much? The driving? The shooting? Ready for it? The unpredictability of it all. Lookie here, 
 this is a true story and it happened to me in the game: I'm sitting in a car, waiting for a truck 
 to appear, one that I'm supposed to follow. I see it, and hit the gas. However, I see a ramp. Now 
 wouldn't it be boring to tail him all the way? Maybe you'd crash. So what do I do? I speed up the 
 ramp and get airborne, right over the truck. Then, I jump out of the car and land on top of it. 
 Over-the-top, right? Wrong. This game is realistic, and performing this feat took a lot of practice. 
 Come to think of it, there's a similar scene in "The Transporter". Then you get that feeling: I 
 AM the transporter. And THAT is why I love it. 
  
  One note: The reason why I don't like the end is actually because one of the last parts of the 
 game has Tanner (you) and other cops fighting a private war on the streets of Istambul. This mission 
 is quite frustrating. The cliffhanger ending is not fulfilling either.
  
  In a nutshell, Driv3r is a true sequel, packed with driving AND shooting at every turn. While it 
 is certainly not everyone's cup of tea, it's definitely not as bad as people are making it out 
 to be. And why not have a game that defies the siliness of the GTA games? Why not drop the whole 
 "be a drug lord and live the high-life" thing? Why not be the wheelman? Rules are meant to be broken. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbdweeb
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 7, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  I think this game was better then other Driver games.. Graphics culd be better on all their driver 
 games though. Seems like a GTA makeover. Would be nice if they at leas added a bunch more cars and 
 trucks though. Seems like there is a limited collection of vehicles in this game. I would recommend 
 this driv3r game over any others, but if you dont play low graphic games, I would suggest it. The 
 videos are really quite good though, but they dont seem to play well on my graphics card. Damage 
 effects are good though. Again, this game seems to be a makeover of Grand theft auto games.. or 
 very cloely related to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell_Dude
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  The Driver and the sequel were great games , Driver 2 was one of the best game on PlayStation. 
 But the DRIV3R is sure not only the worst game in the series , but a really bad game and you should 
 not waste your money on it. In this small review I will tel you why does this game sucks and is 
 a total letdown.
  
  The bad:
  
  -Horrible graphics: One of the worst visuals in the 2005.
  -Lame Shooting: It's just one of the 
 worst parts of the game. -Lame Driving: Sliding down the corners might look cool but its hard as 
 hell. Every single little rock sends your car in to the wall
  -Too much shooting in the missions: If it sucks why do you have to do so much of it, but in the 
 other hand driving sucks too.
  -Freeroam sucks: If you don't want to play the missions , but just take a ride there's nothing 
 to do in the city.
  -The last game in the trilogy sucks.
  -Even the ps2 version is bad.
  -No in game radio. You just get sleepy of those few background tracks.
  -It costs money.
  
 
  The good:
  
  -Cutscenes: Are just great, and are not made in the games graphics. The cutscenes are the best 
 part of the game,
  -It's a Driver: The last two games were great.
  -Timmy Vermicellis : Easter egg
  
  If you like driver , then get your PS and play Driver or 
 Driver 2. And if you don't have a PS you still can enjoy a great Driver experience on your PC. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean2339
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 31, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  As long as you have an xbox like or playstation like game pad for your computer this driving game 
 will be good fun. The shooting is good. It feels like an internet game, but it still is fun and 
 useful in the game. The driving is real fun too. I think why people dont like this game is because 
 the take a ride mode is not quite as immense as gta. It sort of feels like an imitator, but if 
 youve played any of the earlier drivers you will now that the game is a true sequel rather than 
 an imitation of grand thief auto.
  
  The under cover mode (story mode) is really great. You will be chasing cars as a cop, shooting 
 down cars as a robber and driving cars like you were in an action movie. One great example of that 
 is a mission ware you need to steal three cars and drive them into a moving semi truck. I totally 
 recommend this game for anyone who needs a gta fix, but is either waiting for a sequel or is an 
 unable to get the true gta. This is a true sequel to a great series, and you can pick it up for 
 about 10 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 14, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  when i got this game i thought this is gonna be good, but i hav a strong powered computer and i 
 put it on high power and the graphics were bad the game was moving so slow when u run it just stops 
 and moves its like a very bad flash game the driver series was awesome but driver 3 ruined it and 
 so does driver parelell lines driver was the best even though u cant get out of the car . so overall 
 this game is one of the worst games ive ever played, ever worse then house of thhe dead game so 
 overall if ur thinking of getting this forget that . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tombom159
Rating: 6
Date: May 4, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  You know what, Driv3er isn't that bad. i mean it's better than 1 and 2 and its fun to shoot people 
 and stuff. i personally like the grenade launcher because it make everything go boom. I also love 
 hox you can swim. The best part in the game though is what the car looks like when it gets jacked 
 up. Pretty awsome. I think it is more fun to play on take a drive though. Storyline aint that good.
 
  this isn't my best review either lolz.. i think this was a horrible game to review gosh. All and 
 All it was an okay game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Driver 3 is a continuation of what I had felt to be one of the better game franchises out there. 
 How ever Driver 3 on PC (And Xbox) falls short of upholding the standard in the original games. 
 The graphics, pace, and game play in general are all mediocre. The game is comparable to GTA or 
 Mafia. The only redeeming factor is the relatively low price at release, and it can entertain fans 
 of games like GTA. That being said I would probably recommend passing on Driver 3 unless you are 
 a diehard fan of that genre. Game play in Driver 3 has mixed the original driving elements that 
 players have come to love in this series, with the free roaming abilities of games such as Grand 
 Theft Auto and Mafia. In which you can exit your vehicle and barrow another. It also adds the element 
 of 3rd person shooter, which was missing in the original Driver game. Overall the game play isn't 
 bad but its nothing ground breaking. Players get sent on similar driving missions that either 
 end in a cut scene, or a 3rd person shoot out that leads to a cut scene. 
  
  Graphics in Driver 3 are lack luster at best. The best looking part of the game are the Vehicles, 
 which all have semi actuate crash zones and damage modeling. However textures on scenery are bland 
 and relatively unappealing. Sure land mark buildings in Miami, Nice, and Istanbul look great and 
 are accurately molded; the buildings lining the rest of the streets are generic and unremarkable. 
 Something that Driver 3 seems to like to do is start and ends every mission with a cut scene lasting 
 20-50 seconds to propel the story line. The cut scenes are nice too look at but comprise a large 
 portion of the game. Some time you may ask your self if you are playing a game or watching a movie. 
 The graphics are not the greatest but they certainty aren't the worst in a game either but that 
 being said they are worse that most recent games coming out onto the market and easily scream console 
 game. 
  
  Sound FX Sounds in game are generic. However there is a long list of celebrities doing voice acting 
 either in game or during the various cut scene placed after every mission. There is nothing special 
 about the games sounds but there is nothing inherently wrong with them Everything just sounds 
 generic. 
  
  Replay Value for Driver 3 is not very high in my opinion. There is no multiplayer support for the 
 game. Nor do the missions become anymore exciting the 5th time through them. If you do purchase 
 Driver 3 you may only get use of the game until you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddog2575
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I dont know why every one gives this game bad ratings, its not that bad. I played this game and 
 i played for hours. sure the graphics arent that good and the story sucks but its got really fun 
 free roaming play. The game did have some REALLY hard and repetitive levels but its really not 
 that bad. so go ahead and at least give it a try. DEFINITELY DONT BUY IT but at least rent for 
 ps2 or something. you can drive boats, cars, and motorcycles which makes it really fun, but not 
 as good as GTA. but give it a shot and have fun no matter what anyone says. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b36soldier
Rating: 1.8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a waste of time, i bought it with high hopes expecting it to be a gud game!
  i should have realised that there was something dodgy when i only paid &pound;5.99 for it. I like 
 the designs of the cars and the selection that you have.
  But playing this game made me feel like i was playing a really poor version gangs of london or 
 GTA.
  I recently bought driver in a 3 for &pound;10 deal and i feel like i can enjoy driving again. I 
 reccomend doing the same so you can still have that good feeling of driver that you once did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sainz2
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  It's very hard to express your feelings about that game, because I don't know anything so negative 
 to say about it. First of all you see the screenshots of the game and it seems pretty cool game 
 but after installing you only know that that's totally dissapointing. Movement and controlls are 
 very bad just like some arcadeic java game... for your mobile. The Graphics are unrealistic and 
 the best part is driving. Take Film Director and you'll get a replay like A-Team or Knight Rider (without 
 your super car off-course) and just like in those movies (specially A-Team) AI can't hit you and 
 you almost can hit them (AI ducks and your bullets don't reach to him/them) . The map's are this 
 game's best part, but bad graphics can turn this feeling around... If you're gonna buy this game 
 better play the demo and see if it likes to you (most likely not) anyway only hardcore Driver series 
 fan can enjoy this game a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flankmove
Rating: 3.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I only paid $5 for this game and I still feel ripped off. Either I was'nt patient enough to figure 
 it out , or the controls are just that bad. It's like the trees and light poles lining the streets 
 are magnets pulling your vehicle to them whenever you make a high speed turn. Feels like Im driving 
 on ice the entire time. Constantly making steering corrections. When the cops are chasing you, 
 they know what you're going to do before you do it! They ride your bumper until you crash or box 
 them in somewhere. I had more fun playing the VERY short demo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NSAwannabe90
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  to be honest with you when i first saw DRIV3R i wanted the game so desperatley, for the fact that 
 the 1st and the 2nd were excellent. And, (xbox by the way) I got the disc pulled open my drive 
 and slammed it in. what came was a good menu, good music go to missions it loads and i vomit. gameplay 
 is like the 1860s gone bad and the textures are too horrible to be allowed. But overall the games 
 graphics are ok, offering fantastic crash animations of the cars and that grenade launcher is lovely...
 
  to sound. well, soundtracks via gameplay are so annoying (the car sounds are too) that i had to 
 mute the tv (honestly) they gave me a headache.
  
  now to the conclusion. Graphics are ok but glitches kill it. sound too horrible for even the most 
 generous people to like and gameplay is floppy. (although cars do handle good)
  
  overall a 7/10/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyle8674
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 20, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  The only thing I like about this game is the realistic things. After so many GREAT games espacilly 
 after STUNTMAN they had to come out with this worthless attempt to make a profit. The game is supposed 
 to be driving based because it's called DRIVER !!!
  
  If I wanted a game like this I would have went and bought GTA. I don't like the way they had to 
 go and make an 'M' rated game. You can make a game just as fun without making it M. I don't like 
 buying M rated games, there's too much junk in them. I hope they come up with something better 
 next time cause they basically stole people money. fifty bucks for a worthless copy of GTA.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Driver  this name remind me of a great game Driver and with that great experience kept in mind 
 I started to play Driver 3 in short Driv3r. But soon all my expectations gone away and I was thinking 
 how can they release a half-cooked game like this. There wasnt any competition that time and its 
 just a copycat port game (console to PC) . Driver 3 posses so many potentials that could make this 
 game a big hit. Main damages are done by its poor missions design and clunky graphics and some 
 technical issues  glitch.
  
  Lets find out what made this game so hateful. And for this you dont have to wait long. What about 
 this - every time you start the game you have to select language! And after some enter pressing 
 you will find yourself in game menu. From there you can select missions, change settings and do 
 other common tasks.
  
  There are three game modes in this game  Undercover, Driving games and Free ride. In driving games 
 you can choose between 6 available types of driving games  Quick chase, Quick Getaway, Trail Blazer, 
 Survival, Checkpoint Race and Gate Race. I think I shouldnt have to tell what free ride mode is. 
 Using this mode you can roam around three cities  Miami, Nice, and Istanbul  last one unlocks 
 after you have access to Istanbul missions in undercover mode. This free mode is kind of similar 
 to GTA.
  
  Underground mode is the heart of this game. You need to finish a series of missions in each city 
 to complete the game. Most of the missions are pretty much similar and chasing vehicles is the 
 main goal of those missions, there are missions where you control Tanner  the hero of this game, 
 and this game works like 3rd person game and not a bright aspect of this game. Tanners movement 
 and jumping all looks awkward and controlling car isnt that easy too and you have to use cars 
 those have awful handling that make some chasing missions freakishly hard.
  
  Lets focus on sound and graphics. You will see some amazing cut scenes throughout the game and 
 those are one of the best I ever seen in any games. Graphics of Driver 3 isnt anything special 
 and most of the case visuals look ugly, character models often look out of shape, for example if 
 you look on tanners head; you will see some grids! Otherwise three vast areas of this game offer 
 many things to look at and building structures, cars physics looks really good. Sound tracks are 
 really good and odd sounds of cars engine somehow break that nice experience.
  
  In underground mode you dont have much freedom unlike GTA, if developer integrated this huge open 
 world with missions this game could be as good as GTA. Though in free ride mode you can do that 
 but thats not as much fun to do. In that mode you have access great number of cars from bikes 
 to truck to boat. There are some hidden areas to find and ten Timmy Vermicelli (If you've played 
 GTA III you may remember a mission in which you had to chase and kill a guy called Tanner. This 
 was Rockstar's tribute to the Driver series. In return, Reflections have a section in Driv3r in 
 which you have to hunt down and kill a character called Timmy Vermicelli, named after GTA: Vice 
 City's Tommy Vercetti. He's dressed in a Hawaiian shirt and is wearing inflatable armbands because 
 he can't swim!) to kill in each city in order to unlock various extras.
  
  After playing this game I realized its not that bad like what people thinks or making it. So if 
 you are driver fan and dont mind some problems here and there, go for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micropact
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 15, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  When i first bought DRIV3R for PC i was repededly told how bad this game was. I bought a copy anyway 
 and i was quite frankly amazed. The graphics were spectacular and the cars handled like they would 
 in real life. I also liked that Tanner was voiced by the extremely talented Michael Madsen. Anyway 
 back to the game, the missions also seemed to be very fun and I enjoyed to car chases on account 
 of there not being many games where there are any car chases. The cars look very realistic and 
 the textures and reflections were quite impressive. This game unfortunately has a very high specification 
 requirements and only worked well after I bought a top of the line gaming machine. When you all 
 say how bad the shooting is, consider it this way that the fact that you can even get out of your 
 car and shoot is an added bonus to s driving only game. I really hope that the people who hate 
 this game so much can reconsider and try it and see the good things about it and not just the bad. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 4.2
Date: Sep 22, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Driv3r takes the long running franchise and attempts to give it a big blockbuster Hollywood feel. 
 Unfortunately, all of that big budget money seems to have gone into hiring a voice cast and the 
 cut scenes. Once you get into the game, you will start to go bald as you pull out all your hair 
 in aggravation over the travesty that this game is to play.
  
  Driv3r starts you off at Tanner, an undercover cop that is trying to bust a car theft ring in Miami. 
 You have worked your way up as a deep cover operative and have found out that the car ring is working 
 out of Nice, France and Istanbul, Turkey. You also find out that a nemesis from the past has taken 
 control and knows who you are, threatening your ability to stay undercover.
  
  Your objectives are delivered by way of cut scene, and this is a high point for the game. The cut 
 scenes have a high production value and really make you feel like you are in a TV show, or even 
 a movie. These sequences really bring you in and immerse you in a rather well written tale of suspense 
 and action. Problem is that the game starts to fall apart after these sequences.
  
  Missions are played out on foot or in a car and you are given clear objectives that are shown on 
 a mini-map in the corner of the screen. The briefings give you enough information to perform the 
 job at hand, but you soon realize that it is a near impossible task. One mission has you getting 
 three cars and loading them on a moving truck while a clock counts down ominously at the top of 
 the screen. Sounds simple, until you realize that one crash means the mission is toast. You have 
 to move with near perfection on most of these missions or face the dire consequences. On-foot missions 
 are the same as their driving counterparts in that you normally have some challenge that will prove 
 near difficult to complete.
  
  Finishing the goals would not be difficult to finish if you were not fighting the horrible control 
 scheme. The default keyboard layout is different from just about any game ever to come out on the 
 PC. The number pad 0 key controls actions, while the number pad 5 key controls shooting. The mouse 
 buttons are set to nothing. Irritation sets in when you near the end of a mission, only to get 
 killed, because you were frantically clicking the mouse button figuring it would fire you gun. 
 Nope, nice try, but you lose. You can reconfigure the controls, but someone has to wonder what 
 the developers were thinking when they put this control scheme together. There are several modes 
 of play that are unlocked after finishing the main story or Undercover mode of the game. You have 
 a free drive mode that allows you to just drive free in the city. Extras are also unlocked after 
 you complete the game. The extras are a bit paltry, but they do give you a goal for completion. 
 The Free drive mode is nice, because you get to finally enjoy the scenery and navigate the streets 
 of the three cities without the pressure of finishing an assignment.
  
  Visuals are a mixed bag and are surprising considering the detail that went into the game movie 
 sequences. Your character seems to have a low polygon count and has rather generic definition. 
 No clothes swaying or any sense of dynamic movement. And the collision detection in the graphics 
 is horrendous as you have constant clipping. Nothing like walking halfway through a wall and ten 
 getting stuck, only to have to restart the mission. However, when you drive around town, you get 
 a sense of how the visuals could have been. The towns seem alive and peppered with activity. When 
 barreling down the streets in Nice, you feel like you are in some kind of European movie chase 
 sequence because of the claustrophobic nature of the streets. It really captures the narrowness 
 of the streets. And the scenery is beautiful to look at when you actually get a chance to enjoy 
 it. There is a vibrancy and color to all the cities. Sound production is off for a game of this 
 caliber. Again, you would think with the money spent on this title, you would think the sound would 
 be top notch, but it is hit and miss. Character voices are really solid. The performances by Michelle 
 Rodriguez and Michael Madsen stand out in particular. They portray a sense of importance in their 
 characters and flesh them out. They have done what they can with the material and made the roles 
 their own. Weapons sound a bit hollow at times. You want a good solid punch from weapons when they 
 are fired, but they sound a bit hollow and tinny at times. Ambient sounds are okay, but never really 
 stand out. The menu music is really good, but the rest of the score does not announce the importance 
 of scenes as they happen. It just seems like a lost opportunity by the developer to inject more 
 feeling into the game.
  
  Driving is a major part of this game, so you want the game to have spent a bit of quality time 
 with how the cars handle and this is a major issue with it. Cars tend to float and do not have 
 a good center of gravity. Taking turns send the car wildly out of control with you along for the 
 ride as trying to recover is pointless as it will never happen. Collision detection is horrible 
 and you never know what is going to stop you in your tracks. Some signal lights will fall when 
 you run into them while others will stop you dead in your tracks with the indestructible poll receiving 
 no damage. One good thing is that you car will reflect damage as you run into things. Bumpers will 
 drag behind you and flats will pull your car to one side or the other. On foot missions suffer 
 the same fate as they are just too difficult to control with the whacked out control scheme. You 
 character is slow to respond to your commands and unless you are using a gamepad, you will never 
 have a good grasp on the mechanics of movement and shooting. The on foot missions were put in to 
 give some variance from the driving sequences, but they just feel tacky and without any polish. 
 They could have become an integral part of the game, but it seems like no one really cared about 
 them and left them to die on the vine.
  
  Driv3r has a great story that started off as the basis for a sure fire hit of a game. But clunky 
 mechanics and a lousy control interface killed any chance of gamers finding enjoyment. The video 
 sequences stand out and would be great to watch if you could rip them from the game and watch them 
 on their own. The game is a disastrous mess and should be avoided at all cost, unless you are a 
 masochist and enjoy pain in your gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Driver has always seamed like the GTA wannabe, Then came out gataway, wich was like the Driver 
 wannabe. 
  Ok so they added some gunplay since the last driver. And so what you can swim, and so what you 
 can drive all these nice Cars. But Cmon!! been there and done that. The story of driver has always 
 been nice and voilent, thats about the only good thing about it. Though in its name, the driving 
 is actually very strange, the missions for driving are pretty easy and would only end it with you 
 slamming your controller to the ground and shouting at teh screen as if it was their fault you 
 failed the mission and had to restart it like 100 times. The only thing that it does better than 
 GTA is that its more realistic. Thats for sure, plus it has movie cutscene wich give it the feel 
 of being a movie.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  A nother lookalike gta game but with no succes. A bad game. And when i say bad i mean real bad. 
 The controlls sucks bad real bad. The rides are ok. They look just like real cars and the weapon 
 are olso good. Got a Shotgun a uzi and few 9mm and more. The only good in this game is the vehicle 
 damage thats amazing. it gets even better then in gta. bt thats the only good thing. You got like 
 in San andres 3 places where you can shoot.
  Thats Istanbul, Nice and miami. Its to much gta style and its bad. Its only a good buy if ya are 
 a Driver fan. If you are a fan you are stupid. 
  And if you looking for a GTA lookalike Buy Truecrime: streets of LA, Mafia or a a real gta game 
 becouse this game sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thethirdmike
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  It seems people were too blinded by San Andreas to recognize a good game when they saw it. Over 
 half the people who mock DRIV3R haven't even played it! I admit, the GTA games are awesome, and 
 so are the Driver games. Just because you like one more than the other doesn't mean it sucks. Both 
 games have almost everything in common except the DRIV3R tends to be less perverted than the GTA 
 series.
  
  I'll start saying this game's graphics are excellent. Gamespot was crazy to give it an 8. Now of 
 course, the levels are smaller than San Andreas because of this, but that doesn't mean they're 
 not huge. Every building is textured perfectly and the damage you can do to any of the game's several 
 cars is incredible (I like decorating them with bullet hole ventillation) . 
  
  I think one reason people don't like this game is that some of the levels are really hard. There 
 are some crybabies out there who would rather burn a field of pot plants instead of chase a trapped 
 hostage through the winding streets of France. I have played this game a lot on each platform (I 
 have PC, my cousin has Xbox, and my neighbor has PS2) . Because I don't have a good video card, 
 I prefer playing at my cousin's house. 
  
  Those who criticize DRIV3R have probably never played the game's Take a Ride mode. It's away to 
 relax between hard missions or after you've beat the game. What's more is that there are 13 little 
 secrets in each of the three cities that you could spent weeks looking for (or minutes if you're 
 like me and have the guide) . This most essentially is GTA only with better graphics and a more 
 serious experience (you get arrested, not busted) . 
  
  This game is really cheap now, if you can find it. Go check it out, you could find something cool. 
 *cough* Go-kart track hidden in Miami! *cough* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  I Really had high hopes for Driver 3, i Mean Driv3r. My First complaint with this game is maybe 
 the cheesiest name in video game history. What The hell is DRIV3R? My second complaint, as with 
 all atari games, the major glitches and choppy-ass graphics. Another ongoing problem with atari 
 driving games (. cough.. stuntman... cough) is the ridiculous difficulty, the game gets so frustrating 
 that i wanted to smash it. This game isnt worth a rental or even a brief glance for that matter. 
 BEWARE of crappy atari games.
  
  Crappy Atari Games List: Stuntman, Test Drive, enter the matrix and now DRIV3R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  DRIV3R was a game that got so much hype that people started to love it and say how good it was 
 even before seeing it in action. Followed by a elaborate trailer made by the Scott brothers, the 
 tale of Tanner got even more attention. Add to that a Hollywood cast, and you got yourself a game, 
 right?
  
  Uh, no.
  
  The game takes the factor that made people cringe in Driver 2 and extrapolates it: now adding to 
 the fact that you can get out of your can, you can shoot people! And it doesn't control very well! 
 You'll be reloading your game on foot a bunch of times before figuring that the enemies are so 
 dumb and expect frontal attacks, so you'll duck and shoot them while hidden from their badly-programed 
 sights... a great series that is called DRIVER now turns into a GTA wannabe at even manages to 
 ruin the driving portions.
  
  Yep, following the bad on foot action, the in-car gameplay is not an improvement. You'll have nerve-twiching 
 controls that follow your very involuntary finger movements from breathing and turn your vehicle 
 around in a jiff. Add the fact that some obstacles, like traffic signs will stop your car almost 
 instantaneously. And like Driver 2, but taken to a whole need level, any mistakes in a chase will 
 ruin it. Even following friendly cars becomes a nightmare if there is too much traffic.
  
  Graphics-wise, the saving point of the game are the good car models and environments that look 
 kind of good, but not so up close. The soundtrack is forgettable and the voice acting is OK, nothing 
 stellar, even with the VIP crew. VIPs do sound like normal people...
  
  As for the story, the game follows Tanner's attempt to infiltrate a car-stealing crew that is terrorizing 
 town. Nothing huge, but nothing too weak either.
  
  And the game got ported over to the PC almost a whole year after the console versions. So you'd 
 expect to see a whole slew of fixes and improvements. Well, sorry, you ain't getting none, in fact, 
 the game is worse on the PC, because of all compability issues and even more bugs... and don't 
 let me get started over the control configuration and options...
  
  DRIV3R is worthy of a rental or a trial by demo. If you followed previous stories and are interested 
 to see what old Tanny is doing to earn his bucks, go ahead and check it out, but you won't stay 
 too long, I'm afraid.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliotclem007
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  Driv3r was a big mistake. It has high quality graphics (if you have the correct system to run it 
 on) and its not an 18. The thing i dont like about driv3r is that there isnt much atmosphere and 
 is very dull. The graphics are high in some places but if you look at the steering wheel in any 
 of the cars they are like cardbord (2d) and they have a square around it. lol. The resan i got 
 it is because i carnt buy 18's (e. g. grand theft auto) so when the new driver came out i had to 
 buy it and i thought it would just like grand theft auto but not an 18 but to my supprise it was 
 the worst game iv every brought and wasted my money. So what do Atari do? well they copy grand 
 theft auto and call it Driver: parrelle lines! (18) . So i would give it a big, Booooo.!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 1.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Driv3r is a game that you can play only if you were desperate to play and you don't have another 
 choise!
  I installed the game and after 10 minutes i unistalled it! It's awful!
  The graphics are like a 1999 game and the physics are terrible!
  The sound sucks too!! The gameplay 
 is a mess and the driving is terrible!
  You must avoid it at all costs! It's not worth even 1 minute of your life!
  The only thing that 
 is good and nice are the cut scenes! In that part has been done an excellent job!
  So get the game from somewhere to see only the cut scenes!! Don't even make the mistake to install 
 it on your hard disk! It's not worth a byte!
  DON'T PLAY, DON'T INSTALL IT, DON'TBUY IT, IT'S A PIECE OF.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-ACE
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  A game with trouble carrying on its shoulder i did say this game is worth a try ..
  its a brother of GTA series this game has its own identity game becomes disappointing due to it 
 crazy glitches but that can be corrected thru numerous patches available online now. 
  cut scenes are fantastic, car models are average but without patches cars damages like a paper 
 plane or in other words very bad models, sound is gud, graphics are very very ok, major problem 
 is crashing with street poles and u endup with pole growing out of car. i f some buddy has brought 
 this game plz contact me coz i m making a new mod cumpatch for this game which i guarantee u will 
 convert this game into masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofgames90
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Is this what you call a game comon driver 2 is much better i really say that i am desipionted from 
 this game after all the waite i am a driver fan from the first driver well there only three games 
 this game have bad game play bad graphic the only thing is a little bit good is the story nothing 
 but the story
  
  Story:
  its a good wont as its the first one you get to play in the good side but the good game should 
 take more thing than jest the story
  
  charecters: 
  I mean the body looks like as if a mid school with a pc rendering arms look seperated and legs 
 dont walk well it like you are playing with lego or the animation was don like the old days when 
 they take a speceil camera and a paice that looks like a charecter and moves it a little bit and 
 changers the frame 
  and sow the Graphics are bad bad very bad the only thing that looks good cars and buildings wich 
 is not enugh
  
  its desapointing Grand theft auto wich i didnt expect much from made me surprise 
  
  sound: is 
 good but its not enugh
  wich makes me think what would driver 4 will look 
  At the end of this I will say DONT BEY THIS GAME
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilchophe
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  Quite possible the biggest disappointment in terms of a enw and hyped title.
  The console versions should already have been a dead giveaway.
  Unfortunately the end result 
 of the PC version is a total disaster.
  
  The biggest gripe with this title was the graphics and game mechanics.
  The story is pretty average, 
 involving a sort of reverse Grand Theft Auto where
  instead of a thug , you are a police officer, yes, a bit like True Crime: Streets of L. A. This 
 could possibly have been an average game were it not for the utter
  disastrous port of its console version. Everything that was wrong with the console version is still 
 wrong in the pc version except its a bit more enhanced.
  
  It appears that it does not matter what sort graphics card you are playing this game with, the 
 graphics still disappoint.
  
  Constant flickering, artifacts and low quality textures.
  There are too many better games out there than to waste it on this one ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWEToryu
Rating: 1.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  After i have played Driver 1 and 2 i was looking forward to the Driver3, i had so much hope in 
 this game but the hope and dream become a nightmare, so awful i had nightmares after i had play 
 the Driver 3, so i throw into a trashcan so there it belongs forever now. The game is a lookalike 
 GTA it's sad they did that. It had been much better if they had stayed on from the early games 
 in this series, more fun to drive and for that is Driver a game for me. But suddenly you shall 
 out and shoot someone what is this haha what a crap game right?... It's a copy of GTA don't you 
 see it!!!
  This game has many errors so it is... The gameplay is terrible no feeling what so ever, when you 
 turn to the right suddenly you face to a wall or on the wrong side of the road and crash into a 
 car and game over and start over again, that sucks.. The sound is ok. But what is this about the 
 graphics is ummm a joke and it's poor to... Thank god is no online is this game puuhh, that had 
 been awful... Well i respect other's players game taste i really do that and i hope you respect 
 my view on this game because i didn't really like it at all... If i should play any of this Driver 
 games it will be Driver 1 it's perfect and that game has everything that Driver 3 has not!!!!! 
 And one more thing if you shall play a game like GTA so it's GTA ok not Driver 3!!!!!
  Nope it's enough now so tired to write about Driver3 yaaccckkk...! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Driv3r is a real disappointment for most of players who know how a pure and original game should 
 look like. I played this game and I am intending to finish it just for the sake of it, yet I have 
 found poor pleasure in playing this game in comparison of GTA san Andreas, or even vice-city!!! 
 in fact Atari usually comes up with games that are great in title, but pathetic in content ! moreover, even 
 with a 512 memory of Ram and 2,80 Ghz - 128 mb memory (ATI redeon 9250) this game runs stupid and 
 awful. I have no intention to compare Driv3r to GTA because there's no way of comparing the great 
 GTA to a below-average game like driv3r. however, it is a playable game only if i got it for free 
 !!! graphically it is a mess (buildings awfully-framed and environment which get you back to the 
 old generation of games, really a big lack of graphic-taste guys!!!!) . the sound is completely 
 funny especially when it comes to vehicles!! and the biggest flaw of the game is the game play 
 which gave me personally a hard time, whether with a game-pad or a key-board and a mouse. in fact, 
 I have not decided yet how to play it ( my joystick-pad or the mouse and keyboard) . What can i 
 say more !! It's a shame to ask for a solid-pc configuration while you give the public a piece 
 of crap!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir_Badshah
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:51 am PT
Review:  Driv3r is a Game for the TOTAL-HARD-CORE-FANS of driv3r or who like the Driver series. Because 
 everyone i know Hate Driv3r. But i doen't care. If you doen't like This game? Is it because you 
 don't understand the Driver series...
  
  Driver is NOT like the GTA series. It is very Different. It's to different Games.... 
  Driv3r 
 have to Construct thier own way and Not follow the GTA series.... 
  
  If they follow the "Grand Theft Auto" series we know that the Game (Driv3r) will be 10 times better... 
 But, remember that this is Driver and not GTA. So Driv3r have done thier best of the best and they 
 can be better on thier own way.
  (Just look at Driver Parallel line... That game gonna be good....!! )
  
  I have Completet All 
 Driver games...
  
  I'll give Driv3r 9.7 .... And more in my Heart...!
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  No Fun in Driv3r { What are you talking about Try : 
  
  -Surviver Mode- in Nice with you're Friend's (all my Friend's love that mode!)
  -Film Director- 
 After you are done with Driving you can make you're own Movie! (Make it GooD!)
  -Take A Ride- You are lucky if you are from Miami or Nice Because the Driver 3 Team (Reflections) 
 have done a very very (Very) Good map of the city's... You can Find you're Home....!!!!! :D 
  (One of my Friend's are from Tyrkey, And he found his Grandma's Home in Istanbul and he was very 
 Happy... Hehe..! he also like Driv3r but it is to Hard he says.... Haha! )
  
  Thank's to Reflection, Atari for Making at Good Game...
  And Never mind about all these Idiot's 
 who says the game is bad..! :)
  
  GoooD Bye....!
  
  P. s Tanner is Cool..! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Phantom
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Even if Atari gives me Driver 3 as a Christmas Gift I will trow it to the toilet. First, the gameplay 
 is too slow and difficult, Tanner doesnt jump good, this game must be retired of the stores, I 
 hope that Driver 4 fix Driver 3 problems or Reflection Studios will be out of business for short. 
 Maybe a GTA clone would work good, or the remasterization of Driver 2, the only thing rescatable 
 are the cars models ONLY that, the rest is trash. 
  And finally the director mode, who in hell will use it for fun????
  The worst Driver game of 
 all the time!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qsahmed
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Good game but it lacked on some gameplay.
  The bike handling it very tough and bad.
  
  The car handling it very good. when you play with the front camera.
  
  IN ALL A GOOD GAME.
 
  
  NEED TO WORK ON CAR AND BIKE HANDLING IN NEXT IF COMING
  
  oh oh oh oh oh oh oh o hoh o h oh oh oh o ho h o h oh oho ho h o ho ho ho ho ho ho ho hoh oh oh 
 oho ho ho ho ho ho hoh oh oho ho ho hoh oh oh oh oho ho ho ho ho ho ho hoh o h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Jordo
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 17, 2005 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Descent graphics (and thats about it) , ludicrous 3rd person control & average car handling sum 
 up this game. I'm not quite sure how good the story line is as I can't get the sub-standard clumsy 
 gameplay & waste of 32.99 out of my mind in order to concentrate on it . There are bugs aplenty 
 & very poor collision detection. The car graphics are ok but in 3rd person mode it's reminisent 
 of the PSOne. The environments seem large but poor AI & nothing much to do soon makes driving around 
 boring. Spice things up by annoying the local cops & you're rewarded with a massive frame rate 
 drop as soon as you get involved in a bit of panel bashing.
  I would say rent it before you buy but I think you'll be wasting your 3. If you want a car game 
 with first class handling buy BurnOut 2, for mission based crime, GTA Vice City, but I wouldn't 
 buy this! It's truely awful - I've given it two stars because there must be a worse game out there, 
 but it's close! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahram90
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  i played the game for about 3 months it was ok in the begining but the more i played the more i 
 discovered how bad it was. The graphics are terrible and the music sucks big time. it really is 
 a big waste of time and money. I have the first driver, were you couldn't get out of the car and 
 i belive it should of stayed that way driver is a driving game not a shooting game. And there are 
 a whole bunch of stupid add ons, were you have to assainate a guy called tommy vercimale, WHY? 
 it really is a dissapointment. ONLY THE CRASHES ARE COOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitch88
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 12, 2005 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Driv3r is like the best pick up and play driving game ever! No game ca you just load up, pick a 
 car and belt around 3 massive gorgeous cities with intent to cause havoc. GTAVC comes close, but 
 Driv3r is so much more real.
  
  The phsyics of the game rule, its like you are actually behind the wheels of a beast, and you can 
 drive to your heart content, safely... or stupidly... cars react to damage well (if some of the 
 crashes would write of a car) and they look fab when the smash up to lil bits upon contact with 
 a lampost.
  
  However the game lets its self down bad. The walking around sucks (yes i know its called DRIV3R) 
 but if you encorperate that into a game, its gotta be reasonable, and the missions are often frustrating 
 as hell, any one who asys they have completed the game first go LIES... it took me 3 attempts to 
 get past the first level, that was drving to a police station... (damn pedestrians ;-) )
  
  Yet i feel the reviews so far are harsh, the game is very enjoyable and is very easy to pick up 
 and scream around the cities. Worth it for the real/fun factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joshua6609
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2005 2:13 am PT
Review:  Okay, im not on crack, or drugs, but I loved this game. The graphics are top notch, and the sheer 
 ability to move about the cities make up for the fact that the game graphical glitches. The car 
 models are simply amazing, with every scratch and dent showing up in your car. I also found the 
 poliece "fun" to goof around with, have some fun launching off beaches and hills :) The cities 
 are amazing, expecially Nice, which has numerious cool little parts in it, from a round-a-bout 
 hill you climb to the top and launch your car off, to open highway, and an airport to have some 
 fun jumping stuff at, and Istanbul, with the back worn down roads and the classic car feel, the 
 buildings, and the enviroment, is just amazing, and at night it's even better. Awsome game though, 
 hoping for a Driver 4!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nagol019
Rating: 5.6
Date: Sep 9, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This game would've been great if it was launched in fall 2002, not spring 2005. This game is full 
 of bugs, it says it has nice rag-doll physics but when u hit a person with a car that person will 
 just fly up in a static position and if your skiled u can balance him on your car's roof and have 
 a nice laugh. If u jump in front of a car u will also be sent flying in an unnatural way.
  And now to my favorite part: THE COPS 
  These are the most funniest and dumbest cops ever created. 
 They will arest you if u wanna enter your own car!!! But won't care if you steal another one right 
 in front of them. Most of the times if you crash into a car, cops will arive at the scene, but 
 when they arive they will crash into another car and start shooting the person in it! And in that 
 car there was an woman with a gun and defeated those 2 cops! 
  Another bad thing about this game is that all cars handle the same and have the same top speed, 
 from lamborghinis to broken down renault 1. The cities feel static and abandoned, in some cases 
 you'll end up being by your own on a giant motor-way. I think the cut-scenes of the game are the 
 only nice part, trying to make driver 3 feel like a movie but most of the time they talk about 
 some drug dealer name RICARDO or Rodriguez. In take a ride there is a mini-game that makes u hunt 
 a guy named Timmy Vercimeli. Driver 3 should've gone head to head with vice-city but it worse than 
 it and cannot be compared to GTA san andreas.
  The missions in this game are verry hard and may take up over 10 tries to complete, but the driver 
 2 missions were as hard as these so no complaint here.
  The damage in this game looks pretty nice but still isnt that much realistic, graphics look nice 
 but for 2005 arent that good but hey this game would've been awesome in 2002, and the sounds are 
 pretty much the same as those in driver2.
  Dont take this as a hate review , I'm played driver 2 and finished it on PSX, and when u complete 
 driver 2 after the credits it would say: "Driver 3" Autumn 2002
  I dont know why it took the developers 5 years to release an unfinished game. I hope driver 4 will 
 be diferent and will be launched when it should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1992
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 3, 2005 1:17 am PT
Review:  Don't think this game will do you good because it wont. All it is is Driver 2 but a tad better. 
 I didn't really like it.
  
  Gameplay: Everyone one likes shoot-em-up games!
  Graphics: Horrible and behind the times. And still even know the graphics re bad, it'll run slow 
 on the mediocre computer.
  Sound: Cheesy, driver 2 sounds. I'm telling ya this game is basically just like Driver 2 but jucier.
 
  Value: Not, NOT, worth it. Gamespot editors were right this game blows ass.
  Tilt: Fun, but at some parts a little too hard. I still hate the bad sounds, graphics, etc but 
 it's alright for what it was supposed to be.
  
  In conclusion my friend this game is not worth it and it was rleased 50% done, even though it's 
 4 gigabytes of space... Jeesh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbmaster
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jun 21, 2005 3:54 am PT
Review:  I have to say I own Driv3r for PS2, and I can't wait to own"ed" it! But I got a test drive of the 
 PC version and heres my result, it's even worse. It was so bad Atari released a patch that didn't 
 do anything. Looks like Tanner and his pals are going down the drain. I wonder what will happen 
 when Atari releases Driver 4 somewhere in the future. Todate right now, Atari is the worst publisher. 
 The #1 publisher is EA Games, followed by Ubisoft, and THQ (with a game better than San Andreas: 
 Destroy All Humans!) . So don; t get this game, or if you would like to remembre Tanner, go ahead, 
 but don't come back crying to me. I saw reviews at EBGames. com and there were alot of positives 
 on the PC version months before it came out for PC and now they just want to die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burn6
Rating: 1.7
Date: May 6, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  i agree with the gamespot review for the worst default controls. the graphics is not that good 
 but it requires a 4. sumthing gb of space, the grass texture is almost all green with certain spots, 
 the controls are even worse. this game should be polished for another year, its just not worth 
 riding. i hope atari will not be bankcrupt with this game. i think i'll make a refund. wait, i 
 can't believe im spending time writing this. q w e r t y u i o p [ ] a s d f g h j k l ; 'z x c 
 v b n m , . / q w e r t y u i o p [ ] a s d f g h j k l ; ' z x c v b n m , . / 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
 9 0 - = \ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: far-cry
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 26, 2005 3:00 am PT
Review:  
  well oke what the hell must i say about this game well there is not must to say 
  o no what there is you can tell that the makers of this game never have plays 
  GTA for same 
 inspiration but there is nothing off that its only driving what is not bate 
  the cars are nice and are handling good but thats it there is no ai and there is no game 
  play 
 if youre walking whit tanner doing a mission on the streets its looks like a Childs 
  game the enemy is just standing waiting to be shot the people on the streets are
  ugly and the 
 controls are bate {not in car on the streets} next to this i just hate a bate
  menu well this 1 {at least I think } is just a copy off the console o no what the hole 
  game 
 is a copy off the console only whit 1 more level 
  
  dont know why the dit this the hade a chance to beet GTA but the Failed 
  its like ghost recon 
 2 {pc} the make are taking there time to make the game the fans 
  wand {lets hope} the makers of this game dit not do that just look at the reviews of the console 
 there not good and the pc game is just a copy
  
  the GTA fan wont like this game a driver fan will like it a little bit I think 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: storjohan_
Rating: 2.7
Date: Mar 22, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  ok. what can I say? there is nothing in this game that has not allready been done, better. 
  the gameplay is no more than driving around, shooting people and trying to find something interesting 
 to do, wich you wont. surely you can give the story mode a shot, but trust me. you will give up 
 quick. its just to hard. the plot of the game is great and action filled with..... who am I kidding? 
 the plot is just not interesting enough to pay attention to. the graphics are fair and the physics 
 are even worse. the cities in driv3r are big but boring. there are no buildings that you actually 
 can walk into, except the ones that are cruicial to the plot. the cars in the game actually looks 
 good. you can see different parts of the car go off as you plunge into another car or buildind 
 etc. characters in the game (civilians) are pretty lame. they just walk around the city minding 
 their own buiseness, they dont even talk. you can actually spend hours watching a character walk 
 between two blocks, over and over again. the game does not last long. the average player will be 
 able to finish the game in one day. and did I mention how hard the game is? it is really really 
 hard. I finished the game in one day. but I swear, some parts of the story mode took me like, im 
 not kidding, over 50 tries. 50! thats insane! I actually played some parts of the game over 50 
 times to finish it. its that hard. if you are a impatient soul you dont want to play this game. 
 the sound in the game is good but not great. nothing special to say about that.
  
  the lowdown: buy gta, san andreas. you will thank me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deepcold
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2005 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I don`t know if i`m playing the same game as the other gamers who did a review for Driver 3 but, 
 i don`t think that this game deserve a spit in the face. First of all, the graphics are comparable 
 to GTA San Andreas, and GameSpot gave a 8/10 for it?!?!?! the sound is at my opinion, very satisfying, 
 especialy the V8 engine sound but, except for the motorcycles who sounds like a scared bee. The 
 game play is everything that Driver 1 and 2 was offering and, better. The story line is very good. 
 The big attraction of the Driver`s series as always been the handling of the vehicules and the 
 damage system and, once again, they did that perfectly. Don`t expect a car to stick at 100MPH by 
 making a quick turn... This is not the game of the year but, it`s enjoyable and i`m having a lot 
 of fun with it. I can understand the frustration of some gamers who has been waiting for so long 
 for that game but, it`s not a reason to flame down Driver 3 for that. So, again, this is not the 
 game of the year but, this is not the worst game of the year either. It`s worth it`s 29.99US and 
 it`s 49.99CND too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeedBoy009
Rating: 1.6
Date: Mar 20, 2005 6:22 am PT
Review:  I played Driver 2 a lot on my PS-one and it was very cool game, when i heard about driver 3 i was 
 waiting it, but when they it realeased for ps2 i hope - it gonna be better on pc, but no! it isnt! 
 
  Gameplay is very ,bad grapchics too, Driver 2 had bad graphics but gameplay was great, here isnt 
 anything. Driver main thing is driving and what if control is very bad, then nothing?
  Sound is 4 only because music was very nice. Car sound is like toy car, when i walked near the sitting 
 woman in a park i heard how she moaning or something like that it was so stupid maybe reclections 
 thought it gonna be very realistic :) ) . Better play driver 2 or 1 than this. It makes disgraceful 
 for driver series.
  P. S. Sorry for my english :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taopix
Rating: 1.1
Date: Mar 19, 2005 11:53 pm PT
Review:  without exaggeration, after spending 30min of my precious time with this game, i honestly couldn't 
 believe how bad this game is. probably the worst game i've ever played. the graphic's a mess the 
 developers should be ashame of theirselves! and the control is... are they hiring 14year old kid 
 to do this game? it's soo bad i felt sorry for myself that i've had to put my self through this 
 awful game, in the first 5mins and it gets worse every second. the car's controls is no where to 
 be found and when you're on foot, the animation's very stiff and weird, it's very, i repeat very 
 very BAD! i have no problems with game copying other game's concept or style if they do it better 
 or at least be on par but driv3r makes u hate this kind of genre. if u love the GTA series, don't 
 play this game coz' it'll make you angry coz' this game's so bad that it insults the great GTA.
 
  never have i played such a bad game and i don't intend to finish this piece of dung. the only 
 thing that i like about this game is the stylish cut scenes and the background music. other than 
 that, it looks like a game that's been made by a couple of geek high school students who's been 
 living in a cave. my god i can't believe gamespot gave this a 5.2!? what are they thinking?! this 
 game doesn't even deserve a point! maybe a 0.5 for the cutscenes. in a nutshell, if you're a normal 
 human being who understand what the word fun is, DON'T PLAY THIS GAME! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
