-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Driver: Parallel Lines
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/driver4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Pretty smooth frame rate.
 Offers a number of side missions.
 Decent music in the 1978 section.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Shameless GTA knockoff.
 Flat story.
 Gameplay is passable at best.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 15, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 509 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Reflections
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date:     Jun 26, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Driver: Parallel Lines looks seriously outdated on the PC. Its dull story and gameplay prevent it 
 from being recommendable. 

  Driver: Parallel Lines isn't nearly as messed up as the last Driver game. Considering how completely 
 jacked most of Driver 3 was, that's not really saying much, but it's still worth saying. Parallel 
 Lines is a mostly competent game that's probably the most blatant Grand Theft Auto clone to date. 
 Considering that GTAIII was, in many ways, picking up where the first two Driver games left off, 
 maybe this is just a case of turnabout being fair play. Either way, Driver: Parallel Lines isn't 
 broken, but it's almost completely uninspired and devoid of the little things that make these sorts 
 of games entertaining. The characters fall flat, the story is uninteresting, and the gameplay controls 
 are often inadequate. When you add to that some drab mission design, you've got a game that looks 
 good on paper but simply can't add up to a game worth playing.  

           Driver: Parallel Lines has a very Grand Theft Also feel to it.      

  The action opens 
 in 1978. You, as an 18-year-old named TK, have moved to New York City in search of excitement. 
 You're pretty good behind the wheel of a car and quickly catch on with a crew of criminals looking 
 to make it big. Because this is the late '70s, "making it big" eventually turns out to mean "starting 
 a cocaine empire." But, as these things normally go, stuff doesn't pan out quite so well for TK, 
 and he gets locked up for 28 years. This fast-forwards the game to present day. TK gets out of 
 the joint in 2006 with revenge on his mind, and the story picks up from there. It's a potentially 
 interesting premise that falls apart because none of the individual characters are very compelling 
 or likeable in either era.  

  The gameplay in Driver puts you in a big, open city that's broken up into three areas by bridges. 
 There are a few side missions, such as races and repo-man jobs, that you can use to earn money, 
 which in turn can be spent on car upgrades. But considering the cars in the game are as disposable 
 as you'd expect from a game like this, spending money on engine upgrades seems like a waste of 
 time, so earning money usually isn't your goal. Instead, you'll follow the story path by taking 
 on a variety of missions. Most of them are, as you might expect from a game called "Driver," focused 
 on operating a motor vehicle. You'll get into races, collect packages, and even steal a car, which 
 you'll fit with a bomb then drive back to where you found it so the owner can get an explosive 
 surprise -- unless he played GTAIII. If that's the case, he'll probably see this five-year-old mission 
 design coming from a mile away. Some missions require you to do things on foot, which forces you 
 to deal with the game's lackluster targeting system. It's often skittish and more difficult to 
 manage than necessary. You can target and fire forward out of vehicles too, but this is only useful 
 when you're chasing someone, which isn't all that often. Considering you get into some pretty hot 
 spots with lots of bullets flying your way, and most of your enemies are crack shots, fumbling 
 with the targeting gets very annoying.  

  At least if you fail, you won't have to retreat very far. When you die or otherwise fail on a mission, 
 you can quickly hit a button to retry the mission. Many of the longer missions also have checkpoints, 
 so you won't have to do the early parts again and again if you're having trouble with the final 
 leg of a mission. It's handy and cuts down on repetition.  

  There are a few minor police-response systems in the game that stand out because the other games 
 in this genre handle things a little differently. Police cars drive around the world, and you can 
 see them on your minimap, complete with Metal Gear Solid-style vision cones. Doing stuff like speeding, 
 running a red light, or causing a collision while in a cop's vision cone activates the cops and 
 raises your heat level. You actually have to deal with two different types of heat. Normally, cops 
 just see your car, and the heat meter for your current vehicle rises as you speed away. But if 
 the cops see you get out of that car, the heat is all on you, and they'll chase you regardless 
 of which vehicle you're driving. But the cops really aren't very difficult to avoid, and they aren't 
 very smart. Usually, turning down an alley in plain view is enough to completely confuse them and 
 cause them to give up the chase. And stopping off at one of your safe havens totally resets your 
 personal heat level too. Cops occasionally turn up in missions to potentially give you a harder 
 time, but just as often, it seems as though you simply can't find any cops on the streets when 
 in a mission. Overall, the police presence is more of a hassle than anything else because it forces 
 you to drive slowly, stop at stop signs, and do other "realistic" stuff that isn't entertaining 
 in the least.  

           It's better than Driver 3 was, but that's hardly an achievement.      

  Visually, 
 Driver's a lot better on the PC than it was on consoles, but that doesn't mean overall it looks 
 good. It maintains a smooth frame rate and looks clean enough, but the models and textures were 
 clearly designed for the previous generation of consoles. However, there are some interesting visual 
 tricks here and there. For example, the entire heads-up display will get redesigned and modernized 
 when you switch from '78 to '06 and TK's walk animation will change from a ridiculous swaggering 
 strut in '78 to a toned-down, more normal-looking walk in the present day. On the sound side, the 
 game doesn't sound very good. There's a noticeable audio quality difference between the cutscenes 
 and the in-game action, with the in-game voices just sounding much lower in fidelity. Of course, 
 it isn't really worth listening to most of the voice acting. Music plays when you're in a vehicle, 
 and there's a decent array of licensed tunes here. But as you might expect, the '70s music is a 
 little more entertaining than the also-ran and out-of-date-sounding stuff you hear in the game's 
 2006 setting. As far as sound effects go, the only one that really stands out is the pick-up noise 
 that's made when you grab things like health kits. It sounds awfully similar (though the pitch 
 is different) to the pick-up noise in GTA: San Andreas.  

  Driver is a very by-the-numbers GTA clone. While stuff like having to obey speed laws and stop 
 at red lights arguably makes the game more realistic, it certainly doesn't make it any more entertaining. 
 With unexciting driving physics and lackluster on-foot control, playing Driver: Parallel Lines 
 isn't very satisfying. The game's monochromatic storyline isn't strong enough to make the trip 
 worthwhile either. Sure, it's better than Driver 3, but that doesn't make it a success.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: devilgonnatempt
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I was ambitious to play the new Driver as the last installment, although had it's flaws, was good 
 time spent. Parallel Lines has some really good ideas but lets itself down by unforgivable gameplay 
 and other problems.
  The idea that the story is set in two different times is a great idea and could have been an original 
 and solid aspect of the game which would've resulted in loads of fun. But sadly again it is seriously 
 letdown. The only difference between the times is the cars, TK's walk and the in-car radio music. 
 It does not really provide anything new or exciting to the longevity or playability to the gamepley. 
 
  Visually the game is polished and the environment is very well designed. The sunsets are beautiful 
 and the way the lighting changes is a nice touch. Driver also boasts miles of roads and scenery 
 to explore but the downside to this is that there's not much to do at all. You can drive past select 
 cars, jump in and carry out various jobs in the city to earn some cash, but again there is a downside 
 and that is once you get money, there isn't a great deal to buy. 
  The vehicles in Driver are a good point in the game and are visually stunning ranging from classic 
 rides to up to date sports cars. These vehicles can be modified by adding more power, better braking 
 or suspension systems. You can even choose your own paintwork for your ride which adds an original 
 touch. My favourite part of the game was modifying a sports car and driving round the city at break-neck 
 speed. 
  Combat is not too bad. You are given a good assortment of weapons ranging from a simple pistol 
 to a machine gun. These all do their job pretty well and do sound ok. 
  The in-game soundtrack is the least interesting I have seen in a game. Actually, after 15 minutes 
 into the game I turned off the car radio and played my own music.
  The story is not the most interesting I've played. The game does take you for a ride but is forgetful 
 at best. The best mission out of the whole story took me a good 20 minutes to complete and involved 
 me chasing a helicopter and then escaping under a tunnel. I thought the game was beginning to pick 
 up and then I discovered it was over! Done, finished, finito! I was so letdown because the story 
 was not long at all and felt rushed.
  Overall the game is entertaining for a few hours. The missions should only take a few hours to 
 complete and there is nothing else to do once the game is finished. Parallel Lines tries so hard 
 to be Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas but fails on every level because it lacks depth, fun, atmosphere 
 and originality. Buy it if it's in a bargain bin. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharknezz
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Since the game-series name is "Driver" you would've expected more on that front, it just didn't 
 gave me any extraordinary feeling from other driving games, same with the previous games in the 
 series too i'm afraid. Then it comes to shooting and combat which to me is awful, feeling so rigid 
 when moving around and/or killing somebody. I would say that partly this is a GTA Rip-off but it 
 still features some nice stuff which aren't showed up in the earlier GTA at least, like the tuning 
 garage and the slow-mo effect while performing stunts/throwing yourself out of your car. Most of 
 the missions tend to get boring although there is some fun ones too.
  I miss some features, specially game-modes from the classic Driver 1, they were realy fun, i would've 
 put them in here to make the game better. So for summary i give Driver Parallel Lines 5.5 in score 
 just for some cool stuff that i actually liked. =)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: faisal_6600
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  the fourth edition of the genre-defining action/driving game by reflections interactive, this new 
 edition is set in new york city and features an open mission structure unfolding a story of doublecross 
 and revenge set over 2 distinct eras of new york city . the "Parallel Lines" suffix refers to New 
 york in tow time periods:1978 and present day. it seems Reflections brought in some metrosexual 
 game-guidance counselors after drive3r , as you avatar isn, t a tough-talking tanner, but a hippy 
 androgynous waif with girl hips called TK. this is the very good game of driver series . the game 
 is mission base driving that gives you a gta look and this game has some new features thats features 
 give you a free style you can store cars on a garge and mod the cars new weapons and vehicls are 
 in this game so this is the best game of driver series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unemerge1
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  Overview -
  Driver : PL is a very under rated game, at least this game should get a 7 or 8 but no, they gave 
 it 5.5 ! The cool thing is that there is a '70's time and a modern time. The sound and music are 
 good, the graphics are great but not a 2007 style. Gameplay is is good but missing a lot of things 
 like jumping, swimming, melee combat etc.
  
  Graphics-
  Graphics are great but there are a few glitches like the character's face is a bit triangle like, 
 the shader technology is well used. The animation is too much funky but there ok. the shadows are 
 good. The gun models are a bit simple (not many polygons) . The car models are good and the city 
 is well made like there a huge building area and there a normal neighbourhood.
  
  Gameplay-
  Gameplay could have been a lot better, the driving is good but the shooting is bad. 
 There are no fists, knifes, bats etc. There is no jumping and the ducking is worth nothing. If 
 there was a cover system it would have been cool. The street racing is good when you mod your ride 
 in your friends shop.
  
  Sound-
  Sound is good. The shooting and the reloading sounds are good. The voices are medicore like in 
 the 70's the main character has the same voice as the modern time, he is only 18 in the 70's but 
 he sounds like 40 year old man. Music is great.
  
  Bottom line-
  It is a good game if your bored of playing the Gta games then grab DPL, its worth it. If they worked 
 more in it the game would have better than GTA4 !!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Seeing the succes of Mafia & the Grand Theft Auto series, a lot of developers started working on 
 clones, rip-offs , trends ,call them how you like. The True Crime series was wellcome, so were The 
 Godfather & Scarface The World is Yours. A few years ago we had Driv3r , a good game idea done pretty 
 bad. So the same guys want to convince us that they can make a good game. This game is called Driver 
 Parallel Lines.
  
  Graphics-8/10
  
  Well, really, not bad graphics at all. Not high-end, but they certainly beat GTA-s or Scarfaces ones. 
 Good textures, wisely chosen colours, but strange character animations. Some cool effects ,but 
 nothing special. What really is special are the cutscenes- superbly done ,very convincing & all.
 
  
  Sound-10/10
  
  Maybe I'm a little too generous with this rating but I loved the sound of the game. Sure, the sound 
 effects such as crashes, gunshots sound well, voice acting is solid but the music from the '70s 
 .... AWESOME. Even though I'm a rocker don't listen to other genres too much, the '70s pop music 
 was perfect... exactly as it was in Scarface OST in The World is Yours. The one from 2006 is not 
 that good though.
  
  Story-8/10
  
  Well you are TJ, an 18-year old guy who gets along well with the badasses of New York & tries to 
 become someone. He assists them in races, driving missions, kidnaps/breakouts & some shootouts. 
 Then he gets betrayed & serves a 28 year sentance in jail,& in 2006 he gets out & wants to take 
 vengeance upon all his ex-parteners. Simple but well structured, & I'm especially refering to the 
 cutscenes.
  
  Gameplay-8/10
  
  You should already know what to expect here, since it's a GTA copy. A huge city to explore by foot 
 or via cars -bought or stolen- .You can do side missions (especially races) to earn money & customize 
 your cars stored in garage, but that's not usefull unless you want to do more races, customize, 
 race , customize , race .... & that's not my cup of tea in an action-oriented game. Sure, there 
 are a lot of customization options (think at it as a Need for Speed Most Wanted) ,& atmospheric 
 races with smart opponents, but that's not the idea of Parallel Lines. But I must say I really really 
 liked 2 races, different from the typical "WIN MOFO" type. I had to make sure an other guy won,& 
 sice he was a real "talent" I had to go the opposite direction & make a head-on crash with each 
 opponent to get him out of the race. Reall fun & enjoyable, I think it's really awesomely done! 
 The other missions, as I saud before, consist in "escape the cops" , "go there" , "pick that up & 
 get it there" , "take that back" , "chase him" , "blow up that" orbreak him from prison. Yeah 
 the "get the car ,ram it with a bomb & get it back mission" from GTA III is here as well, so is 
 the one from Scarface & GTA III "get the packages thrown from the helicopter before the cops do". 
 The driving parts are exciting, cops are smart. They follow your car,& if you manage to get into 
 an other car without them seeing you, you escape. Sounds familiar... the same system was used in 
 Mafia, 5 years before Parallel Lines,& I can assure you it worked better there... but no matter. 
 If you're crazy enough you can do some cool stunts with motorcycles on rooftops & not only... Well 
 this was the '70s part, 'cause the 2006 one works on the same principles, but is slightly different. You 
 get a new "modernized" HUD,& New York had changed a lot in 28 years. The producers have done a good 
 job of transforming the city, its buildings, streets, cars & people. It's a completely different place,& 
 you'll really feel that. Missions somehow have the same basics, but oh well...
  
  So the conclusion is the following: if you liked Mafia & the GTA series , you liked the clones 
 such as True Crime series, The Godfather, Scarface The World is Yours (at least one of theese) , I 
 assure you that you'll certainly find Driver Parallel Lines satisfying, real good option to play 
 when you'll get a desire to play GTA III or Vice City again. So, try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  That's a very unique game. Everyone says that's GTA cloning, but I think it's not, especial the last 
 game-Driver 4: Parallel Lines. Yes, I admit, that Driv3r was very dumb game and some point it was impossible 
 to play, but this game is awesome. It's so charming, I just couldn't stop playing it, because, as GTA, there 
 are many options for the gameplay... I can play every mission in 1000 different ways... and that's 
 a very cool thing, but my point is that the missions here are better done, than the missions in GTA, but 
 not the story of course. But since I'm e big fan of that free-car-driving I just love games like 
 Driver, more than GTA. My point is that here the car is my second legs, I can shoot through the car, very 
 easily. I played it on my PC on High Details and I understand that, this game is very RAM and CPU-sucking 
 machine. I have 2GB of RAM and Core 2 Duo, and I still had problems with the lag at some places... And 
 why is that... because of the traffic. It's so real, that I was going to crush my PC when I lose a 
 mission, because of the lag, of course. But that's the only bad thing, perhaps. Every weapon is very 
 cool, the whole ERA-thing is also very smooth done and I enjoyed very much. I played it with GamePad 
 and It was very easy to drive and shoot. So... That game is very cool, something much more than Driv3r 
 and I think every fan of the GTA-genre should play that very huge game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntraX92
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  It's one of the bestest game i have ever played. The bestest thing in the game is, that you can 
 custumize your car's performance fully. And it's a good thing that there are two types of cars 
 are in the game :
  1. From 20th century
  2. From 21th century
  The submissions are pretty good too. Especialy the one, that you have to hunt in for the agency...
 
  I think it's much better then Grand Theft Auto : San Andreas...
  Well, maybe, it's a little bit short, but it's ok...
  The best thing that you can collect cars 
 in the garage, and you can use assault rifles on bike...
  The only bad thing is, the amount of weapons, well there are not many of them. And the cops are 
 not that dumb. They are really active, not just when you are shooting, but even when you driving 
 really fast, but you can lode them easily... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  Driver: Parallel Lines.
  This game offers an almost the same feeling as in the Grand Theft Auto series. but the interesting 
 part is in the story line... frankly speaking, its much better than any of the GTA sequels. and more 
 over it offers a contrast between the 1970's and the new millennium. this episode is really great 
 , i mean.... it has missions other than the one's under higher priority. the races are pretty neat, 
 the aiming and shooting while driving the car is good and offers flexibility to the player to gun 
 down the opponent while behind the wheel. The gameplay is Neat.... its neither too small nor too 
 big unlike GTA, the music is good, the voice and speech of the characters are perfect.... The cut 
 scenes are truly awesome, the graphics are Good too.... minor twitches here n there, but not a major 
 problem. Over all this here is a class A product... i say its much better than GTA.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbdweeb
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Game feels like the same thing as Driv3r game. They all dont have very good graphics and need a 
 total make over on the whole game, This game could have alot more time spend creating it to make 
 it better, For instance, Make graphics better, they are very poor.. Add cars to this came, All 
 the cars, Like it ancestor games, are abou tthe same, you see 5 of the same cars in 2 minutes or 
 less. This game would be worth the buy 100% if the game was made better and more stuff added. Otherwise, 
 if your looking for a fun game to drive around with and run from cops and steal cars, sort a like 
 the same characteristics of the grand theft auto games, then this game would be recommended for 
 you to play. But if your looking for a high end graphics game, I wouldnt recommend this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senan_3000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Nice game for those who have not played GTA. The game is cool, but makes the feeeling of playing 
 the same old game (GTA) .
  
  There are a few minor police-response systems in the game that stand out because the other games 
 in this genre handle things a little differently. Police cars drive around the world, and you can 
 see them on your minimap, complete with Metal Gear Solid-style vision cones. Doing stuff like speeding, 
 running a red light, or causing a collision while in a cop's vision cone activates the cops and 
 raises your heat level. You actually have to deal with two different types of heat. Normally, cops 
 just see your car, and the heat meter for your current vehicle rises as you speed away. But if 
 the cops see you get out of that car, the heat is all on you, and they'll chase you regardless 
 of which vehicle you're driving. But the cops really aren't very difficult to avoid, and they aren't 
 very smart. Usually, turning down an alley in plain view is enough to completely confuse them and 
 cause them to give up the chase. And stopping off at one of your safe havens totally resets your 
 personal heat level too. Cops occasionally turn up in missions to potentially give you a harder 
 time, but just as often, it seems as though you simply can't find any cops on the streets when 
 in a mission. Overall, the police presence is more of a hassle than anything else because it forces 
 you to drive slowly, stop at stop signs, and do other realistic stuff that isn't entertaining in 
 the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  DRIV3R was described by many gamers to be the worst game ever made. It was dogged by terrible AI, 
 very poor performance and a shocking cliff-hanger for an ending, so when Driver: Parallel Lines 
 landed onto our desks at PCF we started to get a cold, tingly feeling rushing down our backs. Sure 
 the PS2 version wasnt that bad but what can we expect from the PC version?
  The good news is that the developers have come to the party and insured that what happened with 
 DRIV3R doesnt happen again. That said Parallel Lines still doesnt reach the same level of fun 
 and entertainment that the likes of GTA can deliver but that doesnt mean that Parallel Lines doesnt 
 have its place in the world.
  Parallel Lines follows the evolution of TK as his grows in the world of underground crime, from 
 a young 18 year old getaway driver to a drug dealer. But when a mission to kidnap a drug lord goes 
 south and TK is left to take the fall, he goes to jail for 28 years. Fast track to 2006 and TK, 
 which stands for The Kid by the way, gets out of jail and executes his plan for revenge. The 
 game is set in a scaled down New York City which presents the player with over 200 miles of open 
 road, across the three main islands. The whole city is available to the player from the get go 
 and has much for the player to do and discover. From street racing to stealing cars for orders, 
 the player can spend hours doing random little side jobs as they drive around the city.
  The game has many colourful characters that the player interacts with, from your first boss Slink 
 to the man only known as the Mexican, Parallel Lines has a cast you wont soon forget and a story 
 that entertains.
  Visually, Parallel Lines looks okay. It offers a large view distance with the New York skyline 
 always visible from anywhere in the city. That said the graphics are a bit too plain and dont 
 really take much advantage of what current generation PC can do. The game looks a bit sharper than 
 the PS2 version but one feels thats due more to the higher resolution that PC can deliver rather 
 than sharper textures. Another disappointment is that as colourful as the characters are in the 
 game, their models arent very detailed. The look of 1970s New York City is bright and funky and 
 fits the style of the era. New York of 2006 is a more realistic and less cartoony and adds to emphasize 
 the change that has happened over the 30 years. The cars themselves are very well modelled, with 
 very detailed damaged models. Going too fast causes the hood of the car to rip off and accidents 
 almost always result in a huge mess.
  The game boasts 80 different vehicles which range from simple bikes to sports cars to superbikes. 
 That said the bikes suffer from poor handling. Making sharp turns are almost impossible on them 
 and when travelling at high speeds it is almost impossible to steer them.
  Sound wise, the game has one of the best sound tracks that can be found in a game. The music matches 
 the era perfectly and is one of the best features of the game. That said, the sound of the cars 
 are also fairly realistic and add to the whole audio experience of the game.
  Overall, Parallel Lines is a much better game than DRIV3R, so much so, that in one of the rubbish 
 bins in the game, the player can find copies of DRIV3R in them The story in entertaining while 
 it lasts and driving around New York is a fun experience. Then again it still has a way to go for 
 it to reach the level that GTA: San Andreas is at right now. If youre dying to play a third person 
 driving game, Parallel Lines can keep you busy till GTA 4 comes out. Or you could just replay San 
 Andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stipe0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  Firsty, the graphics in this game are impressive especially compared to earlier Driver titles and 
 in comparison to similar game such as GTA San Andreas.
  As you'd expect, the cars are realistic in looks, sound and handling.
  Driver: Parallel Lines 
 contains a substantial variety of guns for you to choose from, although you'll find that you will 
 start out the weakest and in no time you'll have one or two favourites and use them only (such 
 as my favourite, the copy of the Steyr August assault rifle) .
  Good selection of different mission types, including side missions, although the side missions 
 get very repetitive and are mainly just to rake up cash for your disposal on car modifications 
 and ammunition for your piece.
  The story starts in the 1970s with the setting of the time including the lifestyle, music, weaponry 
 and petrol-hungry V8 engined vehicles.
  Later as you progress (I'm not spoiling this one) you'll be the same character in the modern day 
 2006 New York, all your old weapons disappear however you can keep your cars that were modded up 
 from the '70s (one of each type of car can be stored in your garage) .
  For the cheap price this game goes for it's worth buying, it's fun, but a very short game. I played 
 it for 1 day and that was the end of it.
  Probably not much of a replayable game either, but worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muppet531
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game with the anticipation of using my Momo wheel. Unfortunately, there is really 
 no support for it. Yes, you can assign keys to your liking. But as far as tweaking the wheel settings 
 go. Forget it. There is a huge dead zone that cannot be compensated for with the logitech profiler. 
 You have to turn the wheel at least 1/4 of the way left or right, before the car actually starts 
 turning. So you basically oversteer, and fishtail all over the road. Steering with the keyboard 
 seems to be okay . But with a game called Driver , one would expect a lot more support for the 
 Momo wheel. As for the rest of the game, I cant really say. I un-installed it after screwing around 
 with the steering for a half an hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  First of, I have to say that I feared this game to be much like Driv3r when I bought it. Thank 
 God it's nothing like Driv3r. Basically the best parts of Driv3r where made even better (driving 
 model is super cool and less difficult to master) and again thank God they left out some terrible 
 things of Driv3r (terrible 'out-of-car movement and gameplay', that got a complete overhaul and 
 rocks now) .
  
  As always, I'm not getting into the story here, but it's really great, it totally suits the 70-ies 
 feel and atmosphere. In fact, this game feels a lot like Interstate '82, but in the 70-ies. Off 
 course it has no weapons on the cars, but since you can lean out of the car and shoot, it still 
 has a bit of the same feeling somehow.
  
  The missions are pretty good, although some of them are a bit tricky to complete. The environment 
 is well designed and all in all it seems this series has learned from the good things of the GTA 
 series too. If you can't wait for GTA: IV and you need something to kill the waiting time, I totally 
 recommend Driver: Parallel Lines. It looks better than ever and plays great.
  
  Like I've said already, they've given the whole 'out of car gameplay' a good overhaul and it's 
 much much much more playable now when you're out of your car. The aiming works with a 'lock-on' 
 system and this works reasonably well most of the time, sometimes it's a bit tricky, but nothing 
 too annoying.
  
  The main focus of this series has always been the driving itself and it's more satisfying than 
 ever to outrun a police car and get away after getting them on your tail. There are more than enough 
 escape routes and by the time you've gotten used to driving around and stuff (and figured out which 
 cars are fast) , it won't be much of a challenge anymore perhaps, but even then it's still a lot 
 of fun driving at high speeds against traffic off course avoiding collisions and obstacles.
  
  The missions are very nice and have a good variation, but somehow this game does lack a free 
 roaming mode. Some might argue that the normal 'campaign' can be played as if free roaming and 
 that's true, but there aren't that many minigames. Something you can do is go to a circuit and 
 do some racing, finish first , second or third and you get a cash reward. Pretty cool, but you 
 won't be doing that over and over again.
  
  Another cool thing about Parallel Lines is that you can tune your cars, give it a paintjob and 
 even buy custom car kits. I like that feature a lot, especially since any custom cars you've saved 
 in your garage will be returned to the garage whenever you leave it somewhere. The only thing that 
 usually has to be done is pay a little money to fix any damage. All in all a good concept and it 
 works pretty good.
  
  Next up; audio. Especially Driv3r had some really great music in it and although personally I think 
 Driv3r has better music than Parallel Lines, it's close to being on par and it's pretty impressive 
 they've managed to keep this up after driv3r more or less flopped. All that's left is to fully 
 recommend Driver: Parallel Lines, since I haven't come across any real annoyances. Graphics have 
 improved a lot, animations are great and it became a bit more GTA-like, while still keeping the 
 superb driving the series is famous for. Simply lovely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matteo86
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Firsty, the graphics in this game are impressive especially compared to earlier Driver titles and 
 in comparison to similar game such as GTA San Andreas.
  As you'd expect, the cars are realistic in looks, sound and handling.
  Driver: Parallel Lines 
 contains a substantial variety of guns for you to choose from, although you'll find that you will 
 start out the weakest and in no time you'll have one or two favourites and use them only (such 
 as my favourite, the copy of the Steyr August assault rifle) .
  Good selection of different mission types, including side missions, although the side missions 
 get very repetitive and are mainly just to rake up cash for your disposal on car modifications 
 and ammunition for your piece.
  The story starts in the 1970s with the setting of the time including the lifestyle, music, weaponry 
 and petrol-hungry V8 engined vehicles.
  Later as you progress (I'm not spoiling this one) you'll be the same character in the modern day 
 2006 New York, all your old weapons disappear however you can keep your cars that were modded up 
 from the '70s (one of each type of car can be stored in your garage) .
  For the cheap price this game goes for it's worth buying, it's fun, but a very short game. I played 
 it for 3 or 4 days and that was the end of it.
  Probably not much of a replayable game either, but worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assbiotch
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  First, before I start, let me just tell you: DO NOT GET THIS GAME IF YOU INTEND ON PLAYING IT ON 
 VISTA! This game runs terrible on Vista, just like all other games do too. First, the graphics 
 and physics. The graphics of the game are pretty good, and definately beats Driv3r's graphics. 
 The shadows are soft shadows now, and the textures are definately sharper. Also, more objects around 
 the city (almost all) have physics. In Driv3r, maybe a few trashcans and crates, that's all. This 
 is another improvement over Driv3r. Now, when I bought this game, I could not believe a rating 
 on it. Partial Nudity. Wow, really? Since when was the stomach and arms and lower legs considered 
 nudity? Ignore that rating, it's wrong.
  
  Now we head towards gameplay... like other reviews you'd read, I will say that the car chases are 
 fun, but most of the missions are stupid, and are for a very dumb purpose. Something is wrong with 
 me: I always buy these sort of games for the free time. I love going around to explore and kill 
 people, raise much havoc, and test out the physics, and admire the graphics. After I do all that, 
 then I go towards missions. Missions are a second priority to me, and this game is no different. 
 I love how you can totally ignore the storyline and go live life like nothing was wrong, but to 
 some people, that's a deadly mistake. Your personality makes or breaks the game, in some ways. 
 The Driver series have a bad history of glitches. I think they should hire people higher than monkeys 
 in suits for testing the game before release. How the test team they have does not pick up all 
 the hilarious, obvious, but annoying glitches, is beyond me, and all other people complaining of 
 glitches. Sure, every game has its glitches, but this game is just too much. However, it has improved 
 alot from Driv3r's sometimes unplayable glitching. To end this: This game is, because of the low 
 price, worth getting indeed. If your computer is good enough, and you like GTA, then you will find 
 this game worthwhile. If you have this game for the Xbox, I say buy it anyway. The improved graphics 
 make it very much worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  This game surprised everyone i guess, especially after that Driv3r piece of crap. This game is 
 well deserved his name - Driver.
  But it's not only about driving, on foot action looks good as well.
  of course there are some 
 minuses, but compared with the advantages of the game, it's nothing. the worst thing I find in this 
 game is the length: It could be much much longer. the other thing is, that there is not much to 
 do in the city, when you're not on the mission (the tuning stuff gets boring pretty soon, as well 
 as the races) , not as in gta games. I assume it's because the cops are made to stupid, it's to 
 easy to get away and start killing everyone around again. oh and other people are just environment, 
 you can kill as much as you want as long as you're not in the sight of cops, you're clean. and 
 they could make much more car models, as well as the pedestrians. But there are a lot of pluses 
 , that makes this game so solid. first of all I like the cars: the tuning stuff, the damage, and 
 of course the bullet marks - finally they learned something from Mafia (rockstar also should i 
 think) .
  Explosions are just great, I like it when all the parts from the car just gets in the air and spins 
 around, that's very impressive. I like the idea of two different eras, and how everything changes 
 in the game, from the city to the main character itself.
  the plot is very good also. And the movies looks awesome.
  in conclusion: Driver 4 is a well built, 
 not just another gta-mafia clone, with his own atmosphere and truly worth playing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KabusTuccari
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  Driv3r was a disaster. It was buggy, had some stupid mistakes, etc. Basically, you just hated that 
 you have really wasted your time installing it.
  
  Driver: Parallel Lines (D: PL) was a game that I was looking from this angle, successor of a disaster. 
 I wasn't the most enthusiastic player in the world for this game.
  
  The game starts from 70's, and continues to our time. We control a wheel-man, as we can understand 
 from the first in-game video. He says that he is the best in job, then a robber comes to our car 
 and we start to drive. Driving is fun in the game, but it games boring when you have to drive from 
 one side of New York to the other side to get a mission. All the fun finishes when you jump out 
 of the car or the bike. It just doesn't give you the feeling GTA gives. Ah yes, GTA. The game smells 
 GTA from everywhere, but can't compete with it. You collect tokens by jumping off the ramps. There 
 are some other missions in the game except the scenario, but some of them are really stupid. I 
 can understand that you can go to an agency and kill the guy who doesn't give you the money back, 
 but I just don't understand how can we get 2000$ just by smashing a doughnut stand and losing the 
 cops. You can't do taxi missions with all taxis! When you find that taxi, you don't get money when 
 you drop the fare to where he wants! There are lots of more mistakes too. When I was playing the 
 game earlier today, I was going to a mission when I saw that a cop was coming to me. I started 
 to drive like a normal citizen, and there were three more cars in front of me. I stopped and looked 
 at the lights, what did I see? Green! I was wondering why the cars weren't going, and in a second 
 the light turned red. Both three cars started their engines, so I started my engine too. Then what 
 I see, that cop chasing me, even though my speedometer was showing a bit higher than 10. He chased 
 me because I passed on red light!
  
  Another interesting one is that you don't earn any money if you are doing scenario missions. You 
 have to do the side-missions to earn some cash.
  
  There are some good things about the game too. Especially driving aspects. All this car chasing 
 things are fun, as driving is fun. Some of the missions are fun too, my favorite mission is Slink's 
 Air Mail one. You get a bike and try to get the packages before the cops. The last package makes 
 you feel like a motocross champion.
  
  In overall, Driver: Parallel Lines is a fun game that you can spend some time. It is not a definite 
 classic, or reminding the original Driver game, but it promises you some fun hours. If you like 
 driving (and drive for like 15 minutes) , want some decent action, this game can entertain you a 
 bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartsurf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 9, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  What Driver: PL is, is a drivers game, spiced with a compelling story, the ability to drive multiple 
 vehicles that have all been tuned for maximum reality, physics and fidelity for the each model.
 
  
  Too much has gone into comparing the Driver franchise with GTA, which is actually an unfair comparison, 
 as GTA is character based, spiced with the ability to drive and fly multiple modes of transportation, 
 while Driver is VEHICLE BASED.
  
  The physics and fidelity of the Driver vehicle models far out shine those of GTA, and the chase 
 sequences in Driver are far more adrenaline pumping than GTA, bu shouldn't this be the case for 
 a game called Driver?
  
  Not much attention is placed on the character's needs, as in GTA. No, he doesn't have to eat, sleep, 
 drink, have sex with butt-ugly, pixelated hookers or work out to keep from getting fat. No, he 
 doesn't have the ability to add to his wardrobe. Why? Because it's not about the characer as much 
 as it is about providing a game that has adrenaline pumping car chases and the most scenic driveable 
 environments of the genre.
  
  New York City, boh in the 70's and 21st century era's has been meticulously recreated, so much 
 so that in the 70's you see the massive World Trade Center complex, but in the 2006 era, all that 
 remains is a vast construction site. The alleys and streets are cluttered with multiple trash objects, 
 including newspapers that go flying in the air as you drive over them. In 2006, NYC was cleaned 
 up quite a bit to reflect the urban renewal that took place over the years.
  
  The bridges are all there, and each one is a 3D artist's masterpiece! I have yet to locate the 
 UN, but the city is so large, maybe I'm just overlooking it.
  
  On to driving: You've NEVER driven a computer generated car like those in the Driver series. At 
 first you might think, hey, this is too hard, the cars slip and slide a bit too much, but once 
 you get used to the high fidelity of the car physics, you're in for one heck of a ride and some 
 of the best car chases, races and high speed get-aways available in ANY game.
  
  The biggest let down is that DPL has for some strange reason, removed the HEART of the Driver series, 
 The Film Director. Why? This was one of the greatest features of the series, to actually edit your 
 own Hollywood style car chases. Now, all you can do is look and gawk at the awesome cityscape, 
 but you can never play back any of your fantastic car chases through the streets of NYC.
  
  Put back the Film Director - if even in a patch, UBISoft, that's the heart and soul of Driver!
 
  
  Other than the missing Film Director, Driver is well worth it's budget price.
  
  Enjoy the ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pawliuz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Finally they got back on track!
  This game surprised everyone i guess, especially after that Driv3r piece of crap. This game is 
 well deserved his name - Driver.
  But it's not only about driving, on foot action looks good as well.
  of course there are some 
 minuses, but compared with the advantages of the game, it's nothing. the worst thing I find in this 
 game is the length: It could be much much longer. the other thing is, that there is not much to 
 do in the city, when you're not on the mission (the tuning stuff gets boring pretty soon, as well 
 as the races) , not as in gta games. I assume it's because the cops are made to stupid, it's to 
 easy to get away and start killing everyone around again. oh and other people are just environment, 
 you can kill as much as you want as long as you're not in the sight of cops, you're clean. and 
 they could make much more car models, as well as the pedestrians. But there are a lot of pluses 
 , that makes this game so solid. first of all I like the cars: the tuning stuff, the damage, and 
 of course the bullet marks - finally they learned something from Mafia (rockstar also should i 
 think) .
  Explosions are just great, I like it when all the parts from the car just gets in the air and spins 
 around, that's very impressive. I like the idea of two different eras, and how everything changes 
 in the game, from the city to the main character itself.
  the plot is very good also. And the movies looks awesome.
  in conclusion: Driver 4 is a well built, 
 not just another gta-mafia clone, with his own atmosphere and truly worth playing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reaper5O4
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  To really enjoy this game, you have to like the driver series and know about it. Many people say 
 it's a GTA knockoff, but really it's not. You start off in 78' and progress to 06' This game is 
 suppose to make you feel like you're in an Hollywood action movie and that's what all the driver 
 games deliver right to your gaming machine.
  
  Game Play:
  The game play is pretty good, driving controls take a little to learn, and character movement is 
 alright, not much improvement from DRIV3R. The storyline is short but there is also side missions 
 to do, you can earn money from these side missions to improve your cars. The story-line is not 
 as good as DRIV3R but it's still something to keep playing for, while theres not much to do after 
 you complete the game, you can play it over again without boredom. The storyline is action packed 
 with about 36 missions to do.
  
  -7.4
  
  Graphics:
  Well, in DPL the graphics took a step down from DRIV3R, it really doesn't look bad, but it has 
 it's improvements from the PC. The shading can be kind of rough, but you won't be spending alot 
 of time in the shade.
  
  -7.4
  
  Sound:
  The sound in this game is alright, some cars almost sound the same, but it all works out. There's 
 not really much to say about the sound except it's good in almost everything. Some of the slow 
 motion cut scenes just have very bad voice actoring. - 7.2
  
  I recommend buying this game if you enjoy playing the driver games, if not, it's not something 
 you would want to pick up. Rent it first, see how you like it, and if you do, than buy it. The 
 learning curves are easy to learn, but it might take about 30 minutes. Final Score - 7.5 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
