-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Duke Nukem 3D
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/dukenukem3d/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.9, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 2,529 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: 3D Realms
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Jan 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The ballots have been cast and the verdict has arrived: The Duke is A-#1. 

 It's rare when a game comes along that really kicks your ass. 3D Realm's full version of Duke Nukem 
 3D is just that kind of posterior pummeler. With its free-flowing 3D action, over-the-top weapons, 
 and ruthlessly attitudinal protagonist, Duke Nukem will have PC gamers worldwide rubbing their 
 rumps with spine-tingling glee. Prepare to take off your thinking cap and immerse yourself in a 
 world of violent bliss. The ballots have been cast and the verdict has arrived: The Duke is A-#1. 

 Based on the hackneyed first-person Doom formula, Duke Nukem 3D is the first 3D shoot-em-up to offer 
 the player more. There are more diverse environments, more devastating weapons, and greatly improved 
 playability. Unlike the fantastical dungeons and lava pits found in Doom and its kindred, the atmosphere 
 in Duke Nukem is more tangible. The story revolves loosely around a "Mars needs women" theme, involving 
 aliens and their abduction of scantily-clad women. As Duke, you explore everything from an alien 
 mothership to metropolitan underbellies, including smut shops, skin flicks, strip bars, and the 
 horror of horrors: karaoke bars. The levels are massive and, even on the easiest difficulty setting, 
 provide a formidable challenge.   

 Duke allows you to be an action hero to the tenth power. If it moves, shoot it. If it doesn't move, 
 shoot it. Anything and everything can be destroyed. Coin stuck in the soda machine? Pipe bomb the 
 sucker. Toilet won't flush? Nothing a few rounds from your doubled-barreled shotgun can't handle. 
 You slay your way through each scenario, filling aliens full of lead, even shooting wounded adversaries 
 as they bleed on the ground, whimpering for mercy. And all the while, Duke punctuates the violence 
 with the type of flippantly cool asides required of our modern-day action heroes: "It's time to 
 kick ass and chew bubble gum, and I'm all outta gum."  

 Sure Duke's a brazenly tough chartacter, but as the saying goes, "the weapon makes the man." 3D 
 Realms has saved the most destructive weapons for the registered release. In addition to the standard 
 issue firearms found in the shareware version, you now have access to the Freezer (transforms your 
 opponent into a fragile block of ice) , the Shrinker (reduces your opponent to bite-size proportions) , 
 the Tripbomb (great for creating booby traps) , and the Devastator (the name says it all) .  

 There were, however, a few morally questionable conventions of the game - namely those numerous 
 instances in which the player comes across one or several women, bound and rendered helpless by 
 the aliens, who are almost always inadvertently caught in the line of fire. Aside from that, Duke 
 Nukem 3D is one of the best action games to be released in a long, long time. Dozens of games have 
 tried to snatch the Doom crown, but Duke may be the first contender to get a clean shot at the 
 throne. And as Duke himself would say, "Hail to the King, baby."    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (60 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PHILRYABKIN
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Duke Nukem is badass! He is one of the greatests badasses in Video Game History. Now this is Duke 
 Nukem's first 3D game. He's been in 2 games before on the PC as well. But this game kinda plays like 
 Doom and Wolfenstien but with a few elements. Duke Nukem has quotes. Some are stolen from movies 
 like Army of Darkness, They Live and StarTrek: The next generation. He also apperes to be a combination 
 of Arnold Schwartzanager and Ash Williams. The story is simple. Duke is crusin through the city in 
 his flying car but then some Aliens shoot him down and Duke just barley escapes and then he say's 
 'Damm those Alien bastrds are gonna pay for shooting up my ride' and then his adventure begins. You 
 can shoot anything like Aliens, Barrles, Pigs, Mutants and other things. Duke can even pimp out girls 
 by giving them money. There's even a Duke Nukem 1 and 2 arcade machine in the game. Duke Nukem was 
 also ported over to the Nintendo 64, Playstation1, Sega Saturn and even the Game Boy Color, Sega Genesis 
 and the infamous Game. com. Overall Duke Nukem 3D is timeless classic and it will be remeberd for 
 it's stolen quotes, Nudity and explosins. Live on Duke Nukem live on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenhoe
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  
  I am not a violent person. If you are not an annoying buzzing fly trying to stroll about my screen, 
 you do not have to fear me.
  
  But this game made me laugh in a frenzy of blowing alien pigs dressed as cops up and letting their 
 guts fly. This game has lots of love for detail, from the hilarious voice acting and very good 
 level design to the game mechanics that virtually fall into your fingers hacking away on your keyboard.
 
  
  Duke Nukem needs to save the world from Aliens taking over the world. Sounds familiar enough. But 
 the game twists this formula into an experience as classy (but entertaining) as a Dolph Lundgren 
 movie on Acid. Tackle the aliens with weird weapons such as a freezer, a shrinker, pipebombs etc. 
 Of course, there is also the odd pumpgun for all the old school geezers out there.
  
  A milestone in FPS it has been and I would love to play it again sometime and so should you. In 
 case you missed this one, go and tackle it now.
  
  A classic !
  Henrik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Duke Nukem may be a very old game, but its worth is still alive after all these years, never losing 
 even a single piece of its glory, amazement and passionability.
  
  The game bears big resemblance with the previously stunning shooter, Doom. There is a great variety 
 of weapons you can use and more environments to play in than ever before in a game. And all these 
 in order to save the women in Mars and take tem back home.
  
  The environments of the game are fully-destructible, giving you the ability to destroy everything 
 standing in your way, while the graphics and visual options are good enough.
  
  Duke Nukem 3D is maybe one of the best shooters the world has seen. Its multiple weapons along 
 with its high-detailed and fully-destructible environments do make the difference from mortal FPS 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Duke Nukem will forever go down as my favorite comical character in a video game... period! Duke 
 Nukem 3D introduced the wise cracking, badass anti-hero to the world and we have been patiently 
 waiting for a new incarnation of him for over 10 years now, but still Duke Nukem still delivers 
 a fun time even in todays age of top quality first person shooters.
  
  So what made Duke Nukem great? well obviously the main character of course, the kind of guy who 
 couldn't care less about the world until the babes of this world go missing, he's also the kind 
 of guy who comes out with the immortal line "im gonna rip off your head and s**t down your neck" 
 and actually do it a scene later.
  
  Ok obviously by todays standards this game is outdated and shows its age in graphics and gameplay, 
 but in its day this was a truly outstanding game and it also went on to be one of the biggest grossing 
 franchises in gaming history, making Duke the badass we all know and love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS2_pro
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  DUKE!!!
  This is my first FPS I played ( I was 4 or 5 years old that time) .
  I like everything in this game.
  Have you ever seen the like Duke Nukem 3D?
  That old (1996) 
 and that good?
  No!
  Duke Nukem 3D is the best game from 1996.
  You can fly with jet pack (this is something what I never seen)
  It's very useful.
  There are 
 more good things in this game.
  Like swimming!!!
  There is something better than swimming.
  You can dive underwater in this game!!! Yes, It's true!
 
  You can hear water effects (weapon sounds a little different underwater)
  Weapons are amazing.
  There are more different types of enemies.
  Pig cop!!! This is the original 
 character from Duke's games.
  Graphics are  old)
  I know. Today it looks horrible to some people, but I think it's perfect even today.
  Sound 
 
  Gameplay: Enjoy!!! Just enjoy!!! You can't say this game is not fun. It's the best!!!
  I would like to have another good game as this.
  But, I know there is no better game than this!!!
 
  Duke is the KING!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This game was brilliant! We would play multi-player for hours and hours straight all day everyday! 
 This was way before the whole keyboard and mouse setup so you had to be really skilled with the 
 keyboard. Some of the best moments were experienced in Hollywood Holocaust, and the Spaceport. 
 Duke3D was my first venture into online COOP and I will never forget it!
  
  Aside from the Single and multi-player mode, I spent years fiddling with the Build engine and looking 
 up to Jen Silverman for his work. I loved the fact that there was a Goodies folder with the level 
 editor in it. That was one of the most enjoyable aspects of the game!!! Creating a level and sharing 
 the experiencing with your buddies! Truly remarkable. I cannot wait for Duke Nukem Forever. Once 
 a Duke fan, always a Duke fan.
  
  Duke Nukem will always hold a place in my heart. Shadow Warrior was almost as good, but it was 
 no Duke. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bochap76
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  Face it, GTA 4 is no 10; maybe a 9.5 at best. However, GS editors and other gaming sites all gave 
 it a ten. Why? because they said the its short comings were far over shadowed by the innovation 
 and advancements that it brought to the sandbox genre. Well let me tell you something, Duke 3d 
 has done 100 times more for the FPS genre than GTA 4 ever thought about doing for the sandbox genre. 
 In '96 Duke was the the king. Graphically it was nice enough to compete with anything out, over 
 shadowed quake, which was supposed to be the doom killer, until Duke 3d stole it's thunder, and 
 it ran on any system at the time without 3d acceleration required. Best of all it was late night 
 4 in the mornin' fun. I mean get real! It has freakin' pig cops! Name one other game that has pig 
 cops! It was the first game that I know of that you could see yourself in the mirror and flush 
 toilets. It even had private viewing booths in the adult book store in the red light district. 
 That's imagination with innovation. re-review this game and give it the appropriate 10 it deserves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john0479
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  Some would argue that Wolfenstien 3D was the groundbreaking shooter that started the 3D genre of 
 FPS. I would argue however, that there was three pinnacle games that started the FPS world off 
 on its never ending quest of blood, guts, kick ass explosions, and of course, blowing your friends 
 face off with a bazooka. Being one of the many people who actually played PC games during the 90's, 
 and even more importantly, being one of the first people to play against other via LAN connections, 
 I would argue that the three granddaddy games now that made FPS what it is are as follows:
  
  Wolfenstien 3D: This game was what created the concept of the FPS shooter and actually attracted 
 it to people. What's better than fighting a robotic Hitler with a machine gun?!?!?!?! The game's 
 concepts were ground breaking. A 3D game that actually involves an atmosphere that isn't linear 
 was an idea that had been around for awhile at that point, but it had just never been perfected.
 
  
  Doom: The game that launched the multiplayer FPS revolution. I can still remember playing Doom 
 against my bothers with 3 computers hooked up on a LAN connection. Doom was the game that introduced 
 the "Deathmatch" concept to FPS, and even more importantly, created the ability to play a FPS with 
 your friends.
  
  Duke Nukem' 3D: Some would argue that this is hardly a fit to a trio of granddaddy games for FPS, 
 but anyone that would is certainly failing to see the elements that it brought to the table at 
 its time. The major revolutions that DM3D brought forth in the FPS genre were astounding. Introducing 
 the ability to jump, enabling mouse movement capability, the jetpack, and of course, actually being 
 able to blow away cover. (In very small cases) But most of all, DN3D was the first game that actually 
 PERFECTED the multiplayer element to FPS. It was the first game that ran consistently stable, for 
 hours on end, playing up to 8 people at a time against each other, flawlessly.
  
  
  Beyond any doubt. This game, and it's two trio counterparts, rightfully deserve a place of honor 
 in any true PC gamers collection, even if they do collect dust at this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zyllus_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  - Where to even start... this game is pure amazing fun. If you have ever played Doom or Castle Wolfenstein, 
 then you will love this game. This game has so many little things you can do wile playing, such 
 as going into strip clubs and paying the strippers, shocking the crap out of yourself in outlets, 
 admiring your own pinball machine, secret rooms, talking to posters, watching tv... just little 
 features like that give you the sense of freedom in a game. And Duke Nukem has the bit of freedom 
 that modern day FPS NEED to have!
  
  - This game is full of alien killing action, and the good thing is that there's a variety of different 
 aliens. So your introduced to a new species every level. 
  I don't even know how to describe this game, but I do have to say this game is a MUST have and 
 its way ahead of its time.
  They have a patch out for it, that give you the graphics like the first Half Life.
  but if you 
 let the graphics, and the year this game was released get to you will not enjoy it at all. So just 
 buy it, and have fun with it, because that's all Duke Nukem is... is pure hardcore fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfStedNedwardd
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 26, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  ---The Engine ---
  Duke Nukem 3D runs on the build engine. This was a revolutionary step up from the 2.5D Doom engine 
 as it allowes for slanted floors, the presence of water, and, most importantly, the rendering of 
 rooms on top of rooms. While it still isn't a completely 3D engine, the build engine allows for 
 complex and bizzare levels. It cant do everythig that a modern 3D engine can do, but the build 
 engine can render different 2D rooms on the same 2D place of the map. this allows not only for 
 bridges and balconies, but it has also been utilized to create mind bending maps which could not 
 be possible on a modern, fully 3D engine. For example, in the secret level lunatic fringe, a player 
 can walk 720 degrees in a circle, without crossing their intial path. They can even go through 
 the center, and come out on one "half" of the circle thorugh one door yet another "half" through 
 a door right next to it. The game even renders the two different parts of the cirle on the same 
 spot. If you look thorugh one window, a part of the wall will be metal and through another window, 
 the same spot wil appear to be an alien form of vegetation.
  
  I give the engine 7/10
  
  ---The Gameplay ---
  The gameplay of duke nukem is simple in some ways, yet devillishly complex 
 other ways. The goal is to find keys, to get though locked doors, and either hit the auto-destruct 
 switch or kill the boss monster at the end of each level, killing any alien SOB that gets in your 
 way. However to reach the end, the player must complete puzzles, usually combination locks. Some 
 are simple, others are extremely difficult. The storyline is about as much as a storyline for a 
 duke vs aliens game can be and the gameplay is somewhat repedetive, but if you're into killing 
 low resolution, 2D aliens (like I am) then you dont really care. Duke's one liners are quite funny, 
 whether he's threatening to "go medieval on your asses", or telling them that "damn your ugly", 
 it adds that funny toutch that all gaes would be better off with.
  
  I give the gameplay 8/10
  
  ---The weapons ---
  In duke nukem, there are 9 weapons plus an 
 extra one if you have the expansion. Some are pretty standard, like the pistol and the shotgun, 
 while others are ingeniously unique, like the microwave expander in the expansion which can turn 
 enemies into bombs, or the lazer trip bomb which you can stick to a wall for it to blow up aneone 
 who walks past it, which is perfect for multiplayer. Who else would think of a rocket launchr that 
 fires at automatic speeds? Some of the items are good too. Trapped behind a crate? Why not create 
 a decoy with your holoduke, or attack them from above with your jetpack?
  
  I give the weapons 8/10
  
  ---The Enemies ---
  The enemies are fairly imaginative, although 
 3D realms coud have done better with the boss monsters. Some of these are easy, some are extremely 
 difficult to kill and others are a joke, like the L. A. R. D. Pig Cops. They all have their own strengths 
 and weaknesses. The Commanders can fire rockets out of their rear-ends, but get owned by the shrinker. 
 The Battlelords can kill you in a few seconds, but if you feed them a enough rockets for chinese 
 new year, they fall like leaves in fall.
  
  I give the enemies 7/10
  
  ---The Graphics ---
  This game was created in 1997, I think, so you cant really blame 3D realms 
 for the crap graphics. There are mods available for download which solve the issue of a horendously 
 small screen size, but the game uses sprites and looks pretty crappy. What more can i say?
  
  5/10 for the graphics
  
  And that's it, people. Duke Nukem 3D, which was the greateste 
 fps ever conceived, until a few months after its release, when something better came out. Still 
 a fun and very addictive game, it should give you hours of entertainment.
  
  I give this game 7/10 all up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyzhaze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  12 years after its release, I installed this legend and went through every level looking for every 
 detail the game has to offer (and WOW, there is a LOT) . This game took up my entire weekend, dated 
 graphics aside, even though for its time it was great. The gameplay, levels, atmosphere, enemies, 
 locations, antics, character and weapons etc. is on par and kicks most modern day FPS's.
  
  A top notch game. If you dont know it, you have been staying with the Amish, and I think they are 
 even aware of this legend. As such has its legacy protruded all minds and lives ;-) ..........
 
  
  There is a new graphics upgrade patch available for this game, which ads 3d sprites and more textured 
 buildings, levels and so on. The patch ads the same kind of quality found in Half life 1. But DONT 
 judge this game according todays graphics, you will fall short. 
  
  Lets see what Duke Nukem Forever has install for us. They have a high bar to uphold..... could 
 explain why we havent seen it?
  
  GET IT!!!!!! This game is amazing, even by todays standard!!!! MUST HAVE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Duke Nukem, I though it was gonna be another one of his famous side scrolling 
 adventure games that I really didn't care for much. But then I heard the "3D" that followed his 
 name and my curiosity spiked. So I quickly (well... back when my fastest connection was 9600bps 
 yes... thats nine thousand six hundred, so it wasn't quickly and took me 8 hours to download the 
 5mb demo) and cleared up some room on my whopping 120mb (yes megabyte) harddrive so I could install 
 this bad boy. I was completely amazed. Outstanding graphics, weapons like no other game, and just 
 the overall ****kicker attitude of this game made me fall right in love! It was really something 
 in it's own league and just reeked of testosterone, which of course made it just pure awesome. 
 Duke's one liners became instant classics to millions and still get used to this day in a variety 
 of ways. 
  
  Duke really didn't have much of a plot, which was very typical of FPS in the 90's, but it did help 
 explain little things here and there. Never the less, this game was just a pure blast to play and 
 an instant classic of it's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  *** DUKE NUKEM 3D ***
  
  THE GOOD
  -Excellent graphics
  -Great music
  -Great sound effects
  -Excellent level design
  -Great supply of cool weapons and equipment
 
  -Fun online play
  -Duke has great one liners
  -Good controls
  -Great map editor feature
  
  THE BAD
  -Bosses are annoyingly difficult
  -Story is a little 
 cheesy
  
  OVERVIEW
  Duke Nukem 3D is an awesome first person shooter for the PC. Your main character, Duke Nukem, is 
 a crazy gun wielding, cigar smoking, ladies man that is out to save the world from aliens. Yes, 
 aliens have come to Earth and right from the start you find out that they are not only trying to 
 take over the world but they are trying to take away all the babes too! This makes it personal 
 for Duke now. So, yeah the story is a little cheesy but this game makes up for it with awesome 
 gameplay. You'll play through 28 levels in three chapters as Duke tries to stop the alien invasion.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is just like a normal FPS and Duke 3D delivers and then some. From the first person 
 view you can see basically everything that Duke sees. Duke has the ability to jump, strafe, shoot 
 weapons and perform other tasks. The controls are pretty solid for this game. You have a nice selection 
 of normal weapons like the handgun, shotgun and RPG but also a nice selection of abnormal weapons 
 like the Freezer, Shrinker, and Devastator. Along with primary weapons at your disposal, Duke can 
 find other support items like Med-kits, Steroids (increases speed) and the ever popular Jet Pack. 
 Incorporating these additions really makes the gameplay fresh and exciting.
  
  Now you have the option to play the story mode and the online multiplayer mode. In the story mode 
 you'll maneuver Duke through 28 different levels trying the either find the exit or kill a boss. 
 Each of the 28 levels are jam packed with weapons, equipment, monsters and of course babes. At 
 the end of each chapter you square off against a boss. Now you may have breezed through the other 
 levels with ease but you're skills will be tested with the boss fights. Unfortunately, the boss 
 fights are designed to be annoyingly difficult. 3D Realms really did an excellent job with the 
 level design. Sometimes you'll be outside in a futurist Los Angeles, swimming underwater, or duking 
 it out with a boss on a football stadium. Also, there are some cut-scenes to enhance the story 
 throughout the game. One thing about Duke Nukem 3D that makes it stand out among other first person 
 shooters is the funny and like-able main character. Duke has the best phrases that will make you 
 laugh every time and some of the cut scenes are hilarious.
  
  The single player (story mode) is extremely fun but imagine taking all the fun levels from the 
 story and playing against other people online. Duke Nukem 3D lets you play, via the internet, against 
 friends or random people in a good old fashioned deathmatch. All the same weapons and equipment 
 are here which really increases the replay value for this game. Also, if you get bored playing 
 all 28 levels then just make your own! Duke 3D has a map editing system that lets you create your 
 own levels or download other people's creations. The possibilities are endless. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The 3D graphics are amazing in-game and cut scene. Along with excellent level design, 
 Duke 3D is a game that is incredible in the visual department.
  
  SOUND
  Sound effects greatly enhance the gameplay of any first person shooter and this game also delivers 
 here. From the gun fire to the explosions, this creates an even more realistic feel. Plus the cool 
 heavy metal music gives the game a nice edgy feel.
  
  CONCLUSION
  Duke Nukem 3D is fun game that will be around for a long time. I would recommend this game to anyone 
 that is looking for some fun, "in your face" action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garey017
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Aliens have invaded, and they're destoroying the world and taking the women. The WOMEN!!. Duke 
 Nukem won't stand for that. In this game, you play as Duke, an all around bad-ass with a completely 
 cocky attitude. That may not sound great, but you'll no doubt walk away from this game thinking 
 Duke is one of the best, most likable, and memorable video game protagonists ever. Duke Nukem 3D, 
 Quake, Doom, and Wolfenstein were the big pioneers of FPS gaming. Duke was by far the most addictive, 
 with witty crude humor, interactive environments (like toilets) , and constant hilarious comments 
 by Duke. 
  
  But the area where this game really shined was the multi-player. It was really nothing fancy, strictly 
 deathmatch, but it was just pure, simple, unadulterated fun. Blasting all your buddies with an 
 RPG then taunting them with phrases like "Your ass, your face, what's the difference?" just never 
 got old. There were literally an unlimited number of player created maps to download and shoot 
 it out in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CurrieG
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Duke Nukem 3d was a really good game. Duke nukem 3d was a first person shooter with very basic 
 graphics. this game was released in 1996 I think it was. The levels in duke were really good like 
 the first one were you started on a roof thing and you shoot the fan and jump down to the street 
 which looks cool. When I first played duke when my mum and dad got me it I got a fright at some 
 parts of the game. The weapons are good. You got the pistol, RPG, Chain gun cannon, Shrinker which 
 shrink your enemies which I had alot of fun with. Theres about ten guns in total some I never mentioned. 
 My favourite level in Duke would probably be where you are in a subway.
  
  If you want a challenge in duke try completing it on damm im good. The enemies keep coming alive 
 but if you destroy there boddies once you killed them their gone for good. 
  
  
  The two player online was quite popular but I never really got the chance to play it because my 
 internet wasn, t really working at the time. I played two played with my brother mostly co-op but 
 there was a deathmatch there as well.
  
  There were lots of Duke expansion packs like 500 levels, duke it out in 
  DC, Nuclear Winter 
 also Carribean which I completed them all on the hardest mode Damm im good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murdock94
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  This game was made in 1996. It's a big classic now, but still the best FPS. The graphics aren't 
 good, but the gameplay makes us forget that. The sound effects are very good. The music is very 
 very very very very good. It creates a good atmosphere on each level. The weapons are very unique 
 and some of them are funny. The game has a tasteless humor, but that makes it much better. Duke 
 is a muscular, sexist, egoist man. He has got very funny speeches and humor in them. I give 10 
 of 10 for it. Thank you 3D Realms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baranga
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  The Good: humour, gore, lots of action, awesome level design, a very likable main hero, the awesome 
 interactivity 
  The Bad: controls take time to accustom with (today) , graphics and sound suck (again, from a today's 
 technical quality standpoint, not by design)
  
  
  DISCLAIMER: I haven't played in multiplayer, I'm not into this kind of things. Don't get mad about 
 that pls.
  
  
  
  Duke 3D is one of the best satires of our times. 
  I don't know about you, but I certainly find a lot of things that make fun of... well, of America. 
 Pig Cops, looking like the buffed, donut-eating good ol' LA cops you see in the movies. Strippers. 
 A clicheed LA. Many corny lines straight out of corny movies. And a lot of stereotypes.
  
  Our hero, Duke, is the stereotype of the American Hero. He's big, bulky, with perfect teeth, he 
 has a deep voice, blond hair, he smokes, he blows the crap out of the enemy with a smile, saying 
 funny and cheesy one-liners, and women love him. Oh and he has sunglasses too.
  
  The plot is like this: aliens attack earth, ruining Duke's vacation. So he drops by in LA to kick 
 ass and chew bubble gum. And he's all out of gum.
  
  The aliens come in more flavours, some ripped from movies like Alien (the game is some kind of 
 parody, so don't get nuts about this) . They're all fun to play against, and that's a big thing 
 for a game! They look nice even today (I mean the design) , they still sound nice... It's fun to 
 play against them. 
  
  The thing is, for a gamer in the year of 2008 is HARD to accustom to 1996's controls. So for who 
 starts playing now, it kinda sucks.
  But learn the controls (yes, you can modify them, but I'll be damned, it becomes even harder because 
 the engine is not true 3D, despite the name, so you screw up the view!) , and you'll have a lot 
 of fun. That is, if you do not moan about the graphics and sound. Funny fact: people always ask 
 wtf is wrong with Duke's voice in the new teaser; the answer: in 1996 it was badly compressed. 
 Now it's HD.
  
  Duke 3D is a shooter with easy puzzle elements. Many require finding keys (yes, blue, red and yellow 
 keys) and/or finding the correct button combination. The puzzles are a welcome break from the action, 
 which is badass, fast and furious.
  
  You have a set of really fun to use weapons  even the pistol is fun! Some weapons are instant 
 classics, like the shrink-gun, which can shrink you too if you are not careful, or the three-barreled 
 machine gun. My favourite: the Devastator. The name says it all. An awesome weapon is the mighty 
 foot  Duke's foot, that is - , which is best used for crushing the shrunken enemies, but it's 
 just as useful as the foot in Dark Messiah. Seems that people lost their old-school-fun sense, 
 since they are bashing Dark Messiah for having the foot as a weapon... So, you have a big arsenal 
 to provoke...
  
  Yeah, ummm... gore. Holy hell, there's a lot of gore. It's old-school, which automatically means 
 NO PREJUDICES. You kick ass, and you leave trails. Enemies explode, they literally got blown to 
 bits, they have awesome death animations (nothing like an alien holding his neck with the blood 
 gurgling from it... yeah...) .
  
  It's mainly a straight-forward shooter with no AI, but, just like Quake, Blood and other awesome 
 shooters of the time, it's pretty much a level-design manifesto. All the levels are creatively 
 designed and well balanced, from a gameplay standpoint. Visually, they are equaly nice (if you 
 don't mind 16-bit colour) . You fight on the streets of LA, inside a cinema, a sex-shop, in a flooded 
 city, in office buildings, and in space. 
  
  Many times you feel just like in an action movie (some levels are reminiscent of Escape from LA, 
 for example, and there's even an in-game joke about that) , and there are lots of cinematic moments 
  like those in Prey or even Call of Duty - , such as a ship suddenly crashing in the space station 
 you're in. Everything is nicely detailed, and more interactive than some modern games! That's just 
 a proof of the attention and care the designers had. You can play pool, you can destroy many objects 
 (it's one of the first games with destructible environments, the main architecture isn't destructible 
 apart from scripted events, but many things are) , you give money to strippers to see their breasts: P, 
 you use the toilet, you sing on the microphone ("Born To Be Wiiillllddd!") ... damn, it's awesome! 
 
  
  And there are many, many, MANY jokes. Some are visual: the aliens use the crapper, or naked women 
 stickified" in alien cocoons ask you to kill them in a manner ripped off straight from Aliens. 
 And the alien eggs with their larvae are epic rip-offs. It's fun:) Most jokes are spoken by Duke 
 himself: And I thought 10 guns was hard to carry!"
  
  
  So, if you ain't no graphics whore and don't mind the awkward controls (I played this when it was 
 still hot, so my opinion on the awesomeness is... one could say biased) , you'll have fun. I've 
 tried it recently and I still liked it a lot, although I had problems with the controls for an 
 hour or so.
  
  Anyway, it's still worth trying just to check out what exactly is a video game legend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  After DOOM was released we saw many software companies rushing to make the next best thing. Leave 
 it to 3D Realms to come up with something just as entertaining as it's competition. The Duke is 
 by no means a new action hero. He already had two side-scrolling games that were hits in the early 
 1990's. With a swarm of FPS being released in the mid 1990's, it was only a matter of time untill 
 Duke Nukem would get his turn.
  
  The game plays like any other FPS of it's day. You have your typical weapons such as the pistol, 
 shotgun, chain-gun, and rocket launcher. The developers also added some creative ways to take down 
 the enemy. This includes a weapon that freezes enemies and a shrink ray that lets you stomp aliens 
 like bugs. Along with other goodies such as laser-trip bombs and gauntlets that shoot rockets, 
 you will find endless tactics for killing the enemy. It is also possible to link up with 7 others 
 to deathmatch it out, leading to many long nights of gaming.
  
  The environments are what make Duke3D stand out from other FPS games. Where other sci-fi games 
 choose to use corridors and dark dungeons, Nukem sticks to a urban route. You will find many real 
 life locations such as bars, office buildings and even a movie studio. There are some locations 
 such as a moon-base infested with alien lifeforms, but the game keeps an even pace between environments 
 as to not become dull. 
  
  If you like hots chicks in the form of sprites, then you need to buy this game. If playing with 
 all sorts of guns and toys that turn the enemy into chunks, you found it. If you want simple one-liners 
 that would make Arnold blush, this is your hero. If X-Com is looking for a mercenary that will 
 destroy the most nasty of aliens, hire Duke Nukem. Just be ready for sexual harrasment suits in 
 bulk.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syliss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  It is quite easy to describe my emotions felt when Duke Nukem went 3D; joy. This game is by far 
 the most fun I have ever had playing a First-Person-Shooter. No game has ever come close, and I 
 doubt any game ever will. Maybe I felt this way because I was young and pixelated booby tassels 
 that looked like hot dogs were the coolest things ever. Maybe it was the endless funny comments 
 made by Duke like ooooo what a mess or shake it baby . Maybe it was the awesome weapons and game-play 
 innovations. Whatever it was, Duke was there through it all and there was an immediate feeling 
 of I am going to have fun . I still feel that emotion today and as I play this game more and more. 
 Sure I have beaten Duke 3D several times over, sure the graphics are out-dated, but the joy is 
 still there and not in a remembrance fashion. No game has quite captured that essence that Duke 
 Nukem 3D created, which displays how amazing Duke was and is today. Hail to the King 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Bacon_master
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This is just one of the Many Games that will never forgotten This game is still very enjoyable 
 to play even today!
  
  The Weapons Are like No Others ive seen in games well.. okay sure maybe ive seen a shotgun, pistol 
 in other games but it also has some very clever thought out Guns Such as The Shrinker witch Shrinks 
 your enemy's and then you step on them then there`s also the Freezer that freezers your enemy's 
 and you simply kick them and there gone! Then theres also the Tripbomb, Ripper, Rocket Propelled 
 Grenade, Pipe Bombs, Devastator and Microwave Expander not that i had this on my Duke Nukem 3D but 
 it says it on the site so i dunno.. also theres Dukes Mighty Kick that kicks your enemy's in the 
 face.
  
  The Items Well just like most FPS games There are Keys to get but theres lots of other stuff Halo 
 Duke, Night Version goggles, Jet pack, Med kit, steroids and of course Ammo and health Pickups and 
 alot more.
  
  Gameplay/Level Design
  
  The Levels are Really good are well set out with the strip clubs, Adult Book and Video Shop, Space 
 Ship, Alien Space Ships, Bar`s and all well thought out. As for Gameplay its awesome controls are 
 all good Your not allways on Land you`ll have to swim and fly your way around and even end up going 
 into space and the levels are rarely a clone of a level theres always a new switch or something 
 new in each level.
  
  The Story
  
  This game, set sometime in the early 21st century, begins in a ravaged LA, which was overtaken 
 by aliens while you were abducted during Duke Nukem II. Duke, upon returning to Earth, finds himself 
 with another mess to clean up, and another alien race that needs exterminating. Duke is a can-do 
 hero who realizes that sometimes innocent people have to die in order to save Earth, so accuracy 
 of gun fire is not a real concern to him. I hope this was helpful if not maybe Read another Review 
 or check this site out it has all sorts of Info of Duke Nukem and not just Duke Nukem 3D
  
  http://www. planetduke. com/duke3/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mes323
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite simply one of the best (if not THE BEST) First person shooters ever.
  
  but uh, lets be honest. It certainly wasn't as innovative as Doom, and wasn't as visually stunning 
 as Quake. However, Duke Nukem 3D still ranks among the greats and I had more fun with DN3D than 
 Doom or Quake (might have been the pixilated strippers) . And DN3D was my first stab at multi-player. 
 I used to tie up our two phone lines for hours playing my dad or whatever unlucky friend I had 
 invited over for a little Dukematching Gameplay 10/10
  
  Graphics: you have to remember its 1996. 3D graphics technology isn't exactly mainstream yet (something 
 we take advantage of in 2007) but its getting there. Even so, sprites for many of the characters 
 and guns bring it down slightly considering what Nintendo does with Mario 64 later that year. But 
 the environments are rendered beautifully for the time 7/10
  
  Sound: The sound was simply amazing. the monsters groaning and roaring was a constant reminder 
 that either just around the corner, or perhaps right behind you there was something that was either 
 gonna kill you, or be killed. another plus is the way the guns sounded which again for the time 
 was amazing. the blast of the shotgun might not have been realistic, but it certainly was cool 
 to hear 8/10
  
  Value: Well you certainly got your moneys worth with this one, even today 8/10
  
  The whole 
 experience of the game, the tilt I'd have to give it a 10 simply because the game was just that, 
 a complete experience. even to this day I continue to play it with LEGALALLY AVAILABLE patches 
 which increase the graphic quality, turn the sprites into fully 3D characters, AND allow the game 
 to run under Windows XP.
  
  If you're a shooter fan, and you missed this game, you owe it to yourself to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 26, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Duke Nukem 3D is a Doom clone, but its unique collection of weapons, humorous atmosphere, and highly 
 interactive environment made it the standout title of its time.
  
  You are Duke Nukem, a Jack Burton clone who has no fear in the face of imminent death (but plenty 
 of snarky comments) . Aliens have landed to take our women. It is your job to clean them out and 
 put an end to the invasion. You traverse intricately designed levels of pool halls, space stations, 
 military bases, and a variety of other locales, the most famous of which was the strip clubs.
 
  
  Duke Nukem 3D is a first-person shooter. You have a host of standard weapons such as the pistol 
 and shotgun, but as you progress your arsenal expands to include pipe bombs, laser tripwires, freeze 
 rays, a shrink ray, and a myriad assortment of other odds and ends. The weapons allow for a creative 
 death for your enemies. You could freeze and shatter opponents, lay tripwire and watch them walk 
 into the beam, or shrink them and step on them. While some are less effective than others, their 
 amusing execution will have you cycling through the gamut.
  
  Duke Nukem boasted one of the earlier destructible environments. The core environment - walls, 
 buildings, streets - is generally unaffected by weapons fire. Everything else is either interactive, 
 destroyable, or both. Toilets flush and crumble, strippers dance or die, windows smash, cans explode, 
 and even Duke Nukem arcade machines in-game elicit a response from Duke, I don't have time to play 
 with myself. Every nuance is built to elicit a chuckle from the player, and chuckle you will as 
 you set about discovering all the one-liners and run-on gags throughout Duke Nukem 3D.
  
  Los Angeles police are literally pigs, with LARD emblazoned across their uniform rather than LAPD. 
 The enemies are not stupid, and will use their jetpacks, unusual weapons, and sheer strength to 
 greatest advantage. Unfortunately, while their accouterments are often used to great effect, the 
 A. I. is not the greatest. Modern players accustomed to enemies dodging fire and waiting around 
 corners will find little challenge in the generic onslaughts of mass numbers of weaker foes, triggered 
 attacks, and bosses with high hit points and fixed attack patterns.
  
  It is obvious that the designers enjoyed making Duke Nukem 3D by the sheer number of details they 
 put into the game. Duke has numerous one-liners, such as, That's one doomed space marine, an in-game 
 reference to Doom. Aliens use the toilets. Vending machines vend soft drinks. Windows smash, opening 
 paths to secret areas and new levels. The player is rewarded for exploring every nook and cranny 
 of the levels with weapons and jokes. In fact, the player is encouraged to cheat: to access some 
 areas you must enter a cheat code to turn off clipping, which allows you to walk through walls.
 
  
  The multiplayer was where Duke Nukem 3D really shined. The matches were always horribly unbalanced 
 due to the asinine arsenal, but highly entertaining for the same reason. There was nothing quite 
 like shrinking a friend down to the size of a mouse and squashing him or her. Laying excessively 
 intricate traps of tripwires was equally fun. The maps were also filled with secret tunnels and 
 back-alleys, making for some interesting sniping and sneak-attacks. Duke is varied enough that 
 the novelty of arsenal and environment lasts for quite some time.
  
  The graphics are dated today and the musical score was an afterthought, but these are not the reasons 
 to pick up Duke Nukem 3D. Amusing situations, a varied arsenal, detailed maps, and extensive exploration 
 immerse the player in the Duke world. If you like to laugh and enjoyed Doom, Duke Nukem 3D is not 
 to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Duke Nukem is quite a character. You don't get to see an interesting character like him in computer 
 games. In 3D FPS, you typically take a role of the hero who is equipped with guns and ammo and 
 more or less that's it. But Duke is a womaniser, packed with loads of funny chauvinistic comments, 
 arrogant, confident and light hearted about killing the aliens. He makes killings in the game enjoyable. 
 And this is after all a game, you are supposed to enjoy it.
  Given this premise, Duke Nukem3D is a mind blowing classic action game that followed the 3D style 
 of Doom2 with some adult contents.
  The sex elements in this game were implemented in the sixties' James Bond spirit. It really did 
 not bother me -- though its political incorrectness is very clear. Instead I played through the 
 levels with intense interest.
  The game's plot involves alien invasion where the aliens are kidnapping the girls to breed aliens. 
 Duke is dropped from his airship to kill the aliens and rescue the girls.
  When Duke was released, its levels were the biggest any game could offer. Plus, we get to play 
 with jet packs for the first time in a 3D environment. With the hunky voice of Duke making sarcasm 
 now and then -- this felt so different from Doom 2 that it stole sleep from the gamers of that time.
 
  With levels brighter and bigger than that of Doom 2, Duke would often stumble upon solving Doom 
 2 like puzzles to end one level and move to another. Some of these are quite difficult to figure 
 out. Additionally, the enemies in Duke are no easy kill. In this aspect Doom and Duke stand on 
 the same premise. The game is very easy to pick up, and very hard to give up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Duke Nukem 3D is the first FPS to have a cool character you play. Wolf3D and Doom were great but 
 there was nothing with the character. Just a nameless dude. Duke Nukem is a cool character, having 
 many good one-liners like Hail to the King Baby, Come Get Some, Let's Rock, piece of cake, Time 
 to kick ass and chew gum, but I'm all out of gum, and many other one liners. The theme song by 
 MegaDeath is sweet to add extra layers of BA to DK3D.
  
  The mission design is very good, and the world is interactive. Like turning on and off light switches, 
 drinking water to get health up, pinball, saying Don't have time to play with myself . Shooting 
 glass bottles and much more. The foot kick is very cool and adds more SMUBAMF  
 The weapons are very neat adding to the game the freezer, shrinker, and the expander adding new 
 ways to kill your enemy.
  
  The enemies bosses are neat and cool. The Battlelord unit is seet with a chaingun/rocket launcher. 
 Also the Battlelord action figure is sweet too.
  
  Overall Duke Nukem 3D holds well up against FPS still, and has the style and coolness games still 
 can't match like Total Overdose game on PC. Not cool. Even though Doom and Quake are good, they 
 don't have the pizzaz DK3D has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon6786
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  Hello again my faithful readers who are reading my reviews that i am only writing because i am 
 bored out of my damn mind... The shotgun in this game isnt as good as most games, the other guns 
 are pretty fun. The shrink gun is fun, cuz u shrink em and then squish em... then u use the freeze 
 gun and freeze em.. ok enough on duke nukem, its a good game, not as good as doom, or half-life 
 2.. but its pretty good.. The aliens get old but the pigs are kind of funny. im only still writing 
 because i have to have 100 words or else i cant submit it and i want my rank to go up. i wonder 
 if this is 100 words... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  wow i cant count or tell you the endless hours i spent building maps for DN3d using BUILD! I still 
 have the whole collection stored on a disk somewhere. big to small some i spent weeks on 8 hours 
 a day! yes yes i had no life in grade 9 haha i admit.
  
  Anyways, this game blew my mind! at the time the graphics were top notch and the gameplay was unreal. 
 from shooting pool, stuffing 20's down strippers tops to taking a piss in the toilet for health 
 haha classic. you just dont see those little features in other FPS even to this day!
  
  Online made this game so cool! that old game server TEN was where it was at. especially that crack 
 where u can play the full version that was hillarious.
  
  anyways back to the game, The only thing it lacked was variety of monsters... i found myself killing 
 pigs and those human sized aliens 90% of the entire game.
  
  the bosses were well done though, esp playing co-op with a friend. Nothing beat that!
  
  Sounds 
 were classic, Nukems one liners always cracked me up.
  
  I wish they made a good sequel to this classic.
  The maps were so detailed from 3d-Realms its 
 so sad to see them go out of business, : ( we will remember you guys!
  
  Value: i think this game can be found for free if you look hard on the internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Everyone will agree that this is a classic. Yes this is a classic, was it innovative no. All it 
 was it put a theme to the doom engine. Thats what made this a good game. This was Doom with personality 
 of Snake Pilskin. To those who dont know who he is watch either of the two movies (Escape From 
 New York or Escape From LA) . The game play was same as others, point and shoot, run and gun. But 
 Duke did it with attitude. Multi player taunts were awesome. Visually you might think this is Doom 
 and it sounds were simple. If you feel like blowing things up or hunting friends down in a FPS 
 this is not a terrible choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SenseiNinja
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I played Duke Nukem 3D when it first came out, and yet im still playing since. You might ask why, 
 compared to Halo and DooM and Half-Life, would I play this? Simply because Duke Nukem 3D gives 
 you that true alien a** kicker feeling. Nothing else can describe how this game is. Your an American 
 who simply got fed up with Alien's invading Earth, and you went outside with nothing but a pistol 
 at first, went super commando, and won. Few games give you the satisfaction of blowing someone 
 (or something) to pieces when you drop a pipe bomb at their feet, or when you shoot them with an 
 RPG. Heck, what game allows you to ingest steroids just to run faster and kick harder? None that 
 I know off, except Duke Nukem 3D. He has it all, one-liners, babes, an entire alien army that you 
 have to fend off by yourself, and a near unstoppable amount of fire power at your disposal. Shrink 
 Rays, Microwave Expanders, Chain-gun Cannons, Freeze Throwers, Duke has it all. Overall, Duke Nukem 
 3D provides a true FPS gaming experience that, nowadays, is very, very rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bam416
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 10, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  i used to have all of them the 1st one to last they all kicked asss but the 1st one will forever 
 be a classic it is my favorite pc game that i used to havebut sadly i got borded of it and trades 
 it in but now i feel like i want to go buy it again it was worth ever cent when i got it and i 
 was not disappointed in what i am will to play it again for old times this is one of my best game 
 i own i bet it on every level on every difficultiy and you can not get borded of this game i got 
 borded of it because i lost it and when i found i just traded it in so i will go buy it again this 
 game is just so awsome yeah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 20, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The Duke Nukem series started off with a simple and now a days rather poor side scrolling shoot-em-up! 
 Duke Nukem 3D on the other hand offered a more exciting gameplay experience. Very much like doom 
 Duke Nukem was in a way a sort of parody of saving the world films or just something to do with 
 a hero in the midst! Arm yourself up with huge amounts of weapons and find key cards or special 
 items to use in the environments... even visit local 18+ video shops or strip clubs which actually 
 provided nude material. Yes you read right the game was probably one of the first game ever to 
 show pixelised strippers actually flashing their **** at you! The game was at points hard and did 
 offer some tough competition in order to keep you playing.... if you dont save you have to start 
 the entire mission again! The game also offered many life like things such as when you use the 
 action button on the pool tables you can push the balls about, take a whaz in the urinal or even 
 hold up money to get your way with the ladies. Things like legs being blown off in an explosion 
 and refelctions in mirrors were introduced. The game was actually very violent. Pools of blood, 
 women screaming for help, the monster you just pelted repeatedly with a shotgun gagging on his 
 on blood foaming at the mouth you name it, it had a violent aspect. Duke nukem still lives dearly 
 in my heart.... and is still on my computer running as it always has! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedy_3000
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the best shoot em up game, i never get tried of it. Similar to doom, really 
 bloody and monsters from hell theme. Duke the charter you play as is really buff and also funny 
 in some of the movie clips, for example at one stage when you defeat this really hard devil guy 
 you get to watch this movie clip of him ripping this things head off and sitting were his head 
 once was and he pulls out a newspaper and takes a crap!! Its the funniest thing ever, I still 
 remember know and its been years since Ive played it. You need to be mature to play this game 
 as there are a few pole dance hookers that show you their breasts and things like that. Anyway 
 if things like that don't bother you then you need to play this 10/10 game, you will not regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcksBocks360
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 14, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  intro- Duke Nukem 3D is one of, if not the best, shooter i've ever played in my 
  especially when you have the level editor "build". 
  
  gameplay: very much like today's shooters, 
 with mouse aiming, 
  and excellent multiplayer . 
  
  graphics: very good for it's time, with sliding doors, excellent sprites and cool 
  water effects 
 
  
  sound: very atmospheric. city sound effects are very realistic, and music is 
  cool. 
  
  length: long, engaging campaign. around 50 levels or so. If you have the full 
 
  Duke3D CD, then you can edit levels, or even create your own! 
  
  
  DEFINATELY get this game. If you are using a Windows XP computer, you should probably get a Duke 
 Nukem 3D source port or a DOS emulator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  I know you've all played it. Every single one of you. Every single one of you should know that 
 this game is a masterpiece. This old-school shooter had everyone gazing in awe. I know I certainly 
 was, seeing as this was the first FPS game that I had ever played.
  
  Duke is the main character and he is battling a horde of evil aliens. He is charismatic, cool and 
 hilarious. This dialogue and voice acting is fantastic. The midi music, which is assigned to one 
 a level I believe but can be changed, is catchy and superb. Every line Duke says is a killer and 
 is delivered in such way that it should bring a smile to everyone's face.
  
  The graphics, which were incompareable at the time, are intense and the game was very graphic and 
 gory. This caused a stir in some countries where the violence lock was permanently turned on but 
 could be turned off with a patch. The game was so realistic that everytime an alien would spawn 
 behind you, you would jump in surprise and in shock.
  
  The level design is among the best ever in a FPS, second only to Deus Ex (If you consider that 
 a FPS) , with twists and turns and secrets that sometimes left you scratching your head in amazement. 
 The game allows you to make your own levels too for multiplayer mode.
  
  Of course the main feature is the aliens. The most memorable aliens and bosses you could ever encounter. 
 There's the "Pig Cops" which controversially poke fun at the United States of America's law enforcement 
 officers. There's the overlord aliens, which is one of the bosses in the game, that only appear 
 in the harder versions, that are so hard to beat you need to tactically plan your way against them. 
 There's the green alien blobs that really scare you when they cover the screen. Most of all, who 
 didn't feel a sense of exhileration or dread at the beeping sound of one of those flying sentry 
 robots right before they explode in your face?
  
  The weapons are among the best too with the butt-kicking RPG, the power of the Destroyer, the effectiveness 
 of the minigun, and the shotgun and many more.
  
  By far the best FPS shooter of all time (Half-Life was awesome but Duke 3D was the most innovative 
 and inspirational, and I wouldn't call Deus Ex a typical FPS) and this is how FPS should be made. 
 If you haven't played it, then you've missed out. Go grab a copy, it's as cheap as chips!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnagemachine
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  most games just come and go, selling you cheap thrills at a reasonable price, then some games come 
 along and define a generation of gaming. Duke Nukem is one of the later, it helped pioneer the gaming 
 industry into what it is today. A little while I discovered I still had this game, I was bored so 
 I decided to give it a try for old times sake. This brought back memories of my childhood that I 
 will never soon forget again. And now that Im older I appreciate this game even more than before. this 
 just goes to show that something that has been laying on your shelf for about a decade could mean 
 more to you than you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Current System Configuration
  
  Intel Pentium 4 2.20ghz
  ATI Radeon 9250 (PCI)
  640 MB of Ram
  
  Duke Nukem sticks out as a classic game for many reason. Many may ask why 
 was so revolutionary about it, afterall, it was just a build of the doom engine, and its gameplay 
 was very similar. But Duke Nukem 3d delivered somthing no other first-person-shooter could. Duke 
 Nukem 3d is the first of the fps' to feature a free look and a jump (to my knowlege) . Delivering 
 a much more real feeling than Doom. 
  Gameplay was simple, and its a great game to play today to relieve stress. Similar to doom, your 
 goal is to get from point A to point B. Obstacles include several monsters to kill and keycards. 
 I found this sometimes to be tedious only because its easy to get confused in Duke Nukem 3d, and 
 sometimes lost. Duke 3d features a number of guns, some to be very basic such as a pistol, shotgun 
 (the usual works) . But as you progress you will encounter some of the most creative weapons, though 
 they may not be useful, they are great fun to use, including a shrink ray, and a freeze gun. 
 
  
  Duke 3d utalizes the Doom engine, even though there were two years between the games, it still 
 looked exceptionally good. What I found most amazing about the game, is it featured beautiful voice 
 overs and sound. Some of the most memorable things about the game including a brash one-liner coming 
 from Duke. 
  
  Duke 3d is a DOS game, meaning if you use anything newer than windows 2000 (I think) you will have 
 to get a windows port to play it. I reccomend Eduke32, Simply because it's complete, and features 
 32-bit textures and trilinear filtering, or the orinigal 8-bit textures if you're looking for a 
 more classic look. You can also take advantage of Dukester X for online play. In conclusion if you 
 love to play the older games (if you already familar with older games than you probably wouldn't 
 be looking at this review) , Duke 3d is a great game to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  (Please note: Since the original program itself was primarily made for DOS and early versions of 
 Windows, Windows XP may have problems running the original executable. So for this, I used Jonathon 
 Fowlers source port of Duke Nukem 3D for the single player, and DukesterX for multiplayer. Some 
 of the items in this review may be inaccurate due to the source port.)
  
  Duke Nukem 3D is the third game in the Duke Nukem series, and the first first-person-shooter in 
 the series. In the game, you once again play as the muscle-bound line-spouting Duke Nukem, ready 
 to kick ass and chew bubblegum, and the three episodes involve Duke going through parts of Los 
 Angeles and on an alien spaceship to kill those damn aliens.
  
  Since the games a first-person shooter, it plays pretty simple: kill enemies, find switches and 
 keycards, open doors, find exit, repeat. Sounds boring, yes, but its fun when you dont speed 
 through and take your time observing everything. Because almost every map has an easter egg, secret 
 areas and little quirks that make each level fun. Although I prefer the first and third episodes 
 as opposed to the second, because in those episodes, they make the levels resemble actual real-life 
 places. The game makes fun of stuff like the O. J. Simpson trial and even bashes their competitor 
 id Software at times. 
  
  The game has an interesting form of interactivity. In addition to finding switches and being on 
 lifts, which work differently than Doom: you can start and stop most lifts on your own will, instead 
 of having to wait. In addition, there are security cameras, which give you a little edge on the 
 opposition, water fountains to drink and toilets to restore health, and infamously be able to give 
 money to women around the levels, even hookers. This is pretty cool, especially for 1996 technology.
 
  
  You have 9 weapons in your arsenal, with a standard pistol and shotgun, and strange weapons such 
 as the freezethrower, the shrinker and the devastator, which shoots small rockets in rapid succession. 
 It even has laser tripbombs, predating Half-Lifes tripwire weapon by two years. In addition, you 
 have your foot for melee attacks, and you can even use a mighty foot to do a quick kick while 
 youre holding another weapon.
  
  There are also items that one can obtain and use anytime, such as a portable medkit, scuba gear, 
 protective boots, a Holoduke, which gives the enemies a fake Duke to attack; and steroids which 
 make you move faster for a short period of time. Accessing these items are similar to games like 
 Quake II or Soldier of Fortune, using the bracket keys and enter to access them. If you use a WSAD 
 keyboard configuration, this may before a bit cumbersome, but its not that much of a problem.
 
  
  The graphics themselves look alright for a 1996 game, as mentioned, they at least try to make the 
 levels look like real places in episodes one and three, but since this is not technically a 3D 
 engine, looking up and down looks extremely weird since it has the skew the graphics, making it 
 look real weird.
  
  From a sound point of view, every weapon sounds generally as it should sound, however youre gonna 
 hear a lot of repetition because theres not very many enemies in the game (about 7-8 that I counted) , 
 and theres one thing that bothers me is that once you get down to a certain amount of health, 
 Duke starts yelling in pain. Its not something you can easily ignore. 
  
  Duke himself is full of one-liners, stealing Ash Williamss lines from Evil Dead (specifically 
 lines like Come get some!) and They Live, but also having some witty lines of his own. These 
 only appear during scripted events or when youre on a massacre and blowing stuff up with a lot 
 of explosives, so there isnt that much Duke talk.
  
  The games music is a hit-or-miss affair: the musics a collaboration with Lee Jackson and Bobby 
 Prince, and I prefer most of Bobbys music than I do Lees, although Lee has a few good tracks, 
 particularly Dukes theme, Grabbag. The music isnt that bad, its just some of the tracks arent 
 particularly memorable.
  
  The multiplayer is simple deathmatch (called Dukematch here) , and co-op. Dukematch can also have 
 monsters, so feel free to duke it out with aliens and your buddies. 
  
  All in all, if youre a first-person shooter fan, I would definitely pick up Duke Nukem 3D. Its 
 got a lot of good stuff, and even though its been ten years, its still fun. Hail to the king, 
 baby.
  
  Pros: Quirky weapons, levels have a good amount of detail, lots of hidden secrets and easter eggs, 
 some music
  Cons: Looking up and down is extremely weird, little variety of enemies, sounds repeat a lot, some 
 music 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  Duke Nuken 3D is a classic game and it rocks. The graphics are not good but it's still a great 
 game. Duke Nukem 3D is a fun game to play and it is total fun. Kicking aliens butts Duke Hukem 
 has the newest weapons. Great levels and gameplay. This game totally rocks. I havven't play this 
 game for ages since now. When I was about 6 I use to go over to my Grandma's to play Duke Nukem 
 3D all the time and it use to be one of my favourite PC games. Then today my Grandma gave me Duke 
 Nukem and i play it at my house now. Good old happy memories of video games. So if you think this 
 game is crap then think again because it is a mad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Duke Nukem 3D is a game with personality, the character, Duke, has a very cool sense of humour 
 which adds to the gameplay. This game might be dated now, but the hours of fun you can get with 
 it is outstanding! The single player levels are great, its not just another alien type game, it 
 has so many funny features including interactive enviroments and virtual 3D levels. 
  
  Playing this game multiplayer is amazing, fighting in car parks, a submarine, building complex, 
 city enviroments, endless maps. This game is one of the best classic retro games around and is 
 especially good for people who are just starting out in PC Gaming with an older computer.
  
  Conclusion, if you haven't played this title, then buy a Windows95/98 computer and get it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeSuccar
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  i havent played this game in 10 years and i can still feel the heart pumping alien blasting exctement. 
 This is one of the best FPS games to come out such a long time ago.
  
  DUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE 
 NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE 
 NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE 
 NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE 
 NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE 
 NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULESDUKE NUKEM RULES
  DUKE NUKEM RULES
  DUKE NUKEM RULES
  DUKE NUKEM RULES
  DUKE NUKEM RULES
  DUKE NUKEM RULES
 
  DUKE NUKEM RULES
  DUKE NUKEM RULES
  DUKE NUKEM RULES
  DUKE NUKEM RULES
  DUKE NUKEM RULES
  DUKE NUKEM RULES
  DUKE NUKEM RULES
  DUKE NUKEM RULES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nss_120
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  Duke surely do look cool always!! Most of my friends download many mods of this game. In single 
 player I enjoy cheating ( I usually finish my games w/o cheats and after I play it many times, 
 start to use cheat) I laugh many times while playing this game because it has lots of funny and 
 humorous stuffs!!! This game has lots of "eater-eggs" also, I have soon discovered them while looking 
 for the cheats in many sites. And the most thrilling part in this game for me is that I discovered 
 that the ship in Level 2 Ep 2 was also slightly alike of USS Enterprise. This game has many secrets 
 than Quake has!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  This is the far most best Duke Nukem gave ever. The game is really funny in it's own unique way. 
 It has really good humour, so you really laughed while playing the game. Shooting the alien pigs 
 to other creatures is really that fun.. ny. You get the ability to play in three different locations, 
 ad each hold different jobs to do.
  Well, the graphics are, well. Imagine MS-DOS Doom. It's like playing with colored paper pieces, 
 but the game is still (over) 10 years old, so what would you expect? Still it doesn't ruin the 
 fun from the game.
  Sounds, well. The game is pretty old, so the sound effects were really great back then. Well the 
 music is still good.
  You actually don't get anything if you beat the game, but you can try playing it in harder difficulties. 
 
  The game is really fun, one of the best back then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Deffinitly one of the best games of the year 1996, eventhough I was under the age limit I had to 
 try the game out, the experience was awesome the graphics of that time the game play and the good 
 story for that time.
  
  GOOD: Really cool graphics, good sound and gameplay. The story was pretty cool and all the nude 
 stuff was a experience at that time, after all I was just a kid then, but I believe it's part of 
 growing up. 
  
  BAD: There really isnt anything bad to write about this the game is a bit hard in some parts but 
 at the time I played this it was one of the first games I played so I was getting used to computer 
 games then
  
  Overall one of the best ever games I have played, which is still talked about among my friends, 
 it's onw of those classics that are never forgotten just like Doom and Doom 2.. FPS's rock 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteelMeGaSE
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  It is inevitable, Duke Nukem 3D isn't a game that has been missed. Released in 1996 before Quake 
 would blow the competition away, Duke 3D was the defining game of its time. The game was incredibly 
 interactive, was highly challenging, had an unforgetable protagonist, and is still one of the only 
 games to let you interact with sleazy strippers. 
  
  The story isn't abundant and strong but still sets itself out a bit. You play as Duke, the hero 
 to the first couple of games. You've been shot down upon re-enter to Earth when the aliens begin 
 invasion of the planet. Peed off, Duke sets out on a path of destruction to save the world. You 
 employ some outrageous weapons; like shotguns, 3-barreled machine guns, tripmines, a rocket-propelled 
 grenade launcher, and the super-famous freeze ray. Enemies stand out as well, with Pig Cops and 
 Alligator-like soldiers, to flying brains and tough-as-nails bosses. Your environments are interactive 
 in all sense of the word. You shoot a glass bottle and it shatters, you blow up a crack in the 
 wall and the wall is a smoking hole, you can even level and entire building. As mentioned before, 
 you can go up to a stripper that you'll encounter and have her do a strip-tease. All of these features 
 helped Duke 3D stand the test of time.
  
  Aesthetically speaking, Duke 3D might make some modern-gamers look away in dissapointment. For 
 the classic-gamer or the non-shallow collector or whatever you happen to be, Duke Nukem 3D can't 
 make much a difference even with its dated graphics. The Build engine isn't utilized as well as 
 Blood, but seeing as that game is a year younger, it doesn't matter much. The Build engine is fast 
 in Duke 3D especially with its huge interactivity and a touch of realism still to be seen when 
 compared to nowadays' games. The sound is also top-notch. Duke has some of the most memorable one-liners 
 ever known to video-gaming. The sounds of your dying foes are satisfying, the weapon noises are 
 powerful. Music is good throughout the game and helps to keep the game's presentation in key. There 
 are a slew of other things in the sound that are well-done and made, but they do not need to be 
 mentioned.
  
  If you collect games, this game cannot be missed. If you haven't played it be sure to get your 
 hands on it and give it a whirl! the game hasn't stood its status all these years for nothing, 
 and you should see why if you haven't already. It's still one of my favorite shooters, its something 
 games nowadays can hardly stand up to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew1234_1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 7, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  Duke Nukem 3D for the pc is one of a kind. Its simply a classic. From paying chicks to dance, to 
 blowing the brains of an alien, this game has it all.
  
  Duke Nukem is a not so recent game, (actually its from 1996) but even today, Its fun as hell to 
 play.
  
  The graphics are not bad, but todays are alot better (obviously) . But the gameplay is simply astonishing. 
 The sounds great and there are some great sayings in the game like Its time to kick ass and chew 
 bubble gum, and Im all out of gum or Im going to rip off your head and **** down your neck .
  
  So overall, you will definitely get your $10 in value for duke nukem 3D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurse71
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Duke is one of my all-time favorite games. Definately a classic. Fun to play, entertaining, very 
 witty. This is one of the only games I ever took the time to make my own maps for.
  
  Playing single player, or multi-player, this game was always enjoyable and fun. I notice its still 
 very popular on some online gaming communites, like Kali. If it was easy to get to run on a modern 
 WinXP box, I would probably re-install it and play again.
  
  Hopefully someday a new Duke title will emerge. Like they say on the 3DRealms website...."When 
 it's ready". Unfortunatley, that seems to mean "Never". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aculos
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Have you ever played a game in your life in which after 10 years of passing you look back and say 
 wow, i still remember each level, each area, and every single time you killed your opponent from 
 across the football field with a pistol? If you have any of those memories about this game, then 
 it is probably your favorite game of all time. I have been a PC gamer for just over 10 years now 
 and Duke Nukem 3d has taken the #1 spot for being the best game overall of all time. 
  
  I still remember having all those crazy problems screaming at my modem for not working properly. 
 Adjusting all the settings on the modem which i had no idea what i was doing and then finally after 
 countless hours of being on the phone, hanging up and trying over and over. it worked and i became 
 the king of 1 on 1 Nukem in the neighborhood. Oh yes, i was a god. And you were all god's at this 
 game at one point in your life or another. Downloading and giving your friends special emotes and 
 playing them over and over and over as you fragged him every single time. 
  
  None the less, all things had to come to an end. Computers got faster, and games got better, but 
 one things for sure, everyone has a great memory of this game and it will live on forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jungleMASSIV
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I just love this game! It's got good graphics in a way, even though if you look at some of todays 
 games and you think wow! But these graphics are old-skool and still impressive! I like it when 
 you blow up enemies they actually explode into blood & guts. 
  
  Theres a good arsenal of weapons: pistol, shotgun, chaingun, RPG etc. Theres even a Shrinker! Where 
 you can shrink enemies and then stomp on them afterwards!
  
  The only thing bad about this game, is that when you look up or down it just don't look right. 
 In the sense that it doesn't look correctly.
  
  This game is worth your money if you like old FPSs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtdewtag
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  You play the part of Duke Nukem. Aliens have invaded earth and messed up your day and your blond 
 lockes. So now it is time to teach them some respect with a few well placed bullets.
  
  Gameplay: Duke Nukem started to break ground in the first person arena that was not done before. 
 You can shoot at the enemies regardless of where they are standing. Before you could only attack 
 enemies that were on the same level as you. Plus the environment in Duke Nukem became more interactive. 
 You could stop and use the bathroom and regain health. Water fountains also replaced your health.
 
  
  Duke Nukem had some weapons that were similar to what Doom used. Small handguns to big bad alien 
 blasters. Plenty of ammo for Duke to use and abuse if need be in the game.
  
  Graphics: Duke Nukem had well above good graphics. The aliens blew up in Technicolor and as you 
 played through the game you could always find strange things to stop and stare at to test the limits 
 of your monitor.
  
  Duke Nukem was one of the first games that took reflective surfaces and made them usable in the 
 game. Imagine you are about to go around the corner into a bathroom. Thinking everything is okay 
 you step in and are immediately overpowered by hundreds of aliens. In Duke Nukem you can see the 
 aliens in the mirrors so you can take a few out before you storm the bathroom and hopefully make 
 it through.
  
  Sound: Duke Nukem makes a few comments here and there. But overall the game sound is just above 
 average.
  
  Value: If you are into first person shooters Duke Nukem 3D is good addition to your collection. 
 If anything it is a bit different then Doom and some of the newer ones out there like Unreal.
 
  
  Tilt: Be advised this game does have some adult content. Overall though Duke Nukem 3D is a good 
 shooter. Replay is kind of low but with some cheats you can come back and play the game just about 
 anyway you want too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  Duke nukem 3D is a decade old. It's been out for almost ten years and is still a great first person 
 shooter. The main reason is becuse it's just such a funny game, with well written dialogue and 
 some intense action, thanks to the vast amounts of enemies that come at you at one time. With quite 
 a few different difficulty levels, this game can appeal to just about everyone, but keep in mind 
 it has a very mature theme to it. Duke nukem 3D also has some heavy replay value, mainly because 
 the campaign is pretty long and the multiplayer/co-op modes that can be done through LAN or online 
 is a lot of fun.
  
  Duke nukem 3D stars a very un-usual main character. His name is Duke Nukem, hence the name of the 
 game, and well, he's a mix of a ladies man and an **** He's more of a ladies man, and with his 
 dialogue you can see why. He says lines such as: "Hail to the king baby" or "It's time to kick 
 ass and chew bubble gum, but I'm all out of gum". He's a somewhat likable main character, just 
 not your typical action hero.
  
  The guns in this game are the stars and all of them are well designed. There's about a dozen of 
 them and they all have different uses. The Shrinker for instance, makes your enemies small so that 
 you can step on them. While the freezer freezes them so you can kick and kill them. The weaponry 
 is super unique and is really satisfying to use. 
  
  The enemies themselves are pretty much aliens, so in terms, this is an alien shootem up. All of 
 the enemies are cool looking, especially the pig cops and the bosses, which are massive to say 
 the least. While the graphics don't hold up as well when the game came out, it's still one fine 
 looking game, with great textures and environments, despite the fact that everything seems to be 
 in low poly count. Still enemies look great and so doesn't everything else.
  
  Most of your time spent in Duke nukem 3D is spent just getting keycards and going from point A 
 to point B in very well designed levels. All of them are different, from huge canyons to alien 
 spaceports and everything just flows from level to level. Each of the three chapters have their 
 own distinctive levels though. For instance, the beginning of the game has Duke getting shot down 
 while getting out of Los Angeles and most of your time will be spent running around and shooting 
 up aliens on earth. The second chapter is all about going to alien locations, outside and inside 
 buildings, while the third is a mixture. All of it ends with killing a boss at the end of the chapter, 
 which will take you about 12 hours to do.
  
  Duke nukem 3D is a great shooter, it might not be the flashiest, best, or highest in replay value, 
 but I gurantee that this is an experience that will put a smile to your face and make you happy 
 to be one ass-kicking machine like Duke. Plus throw in the outstanding weaponry, solid graphics, 
 and great voice acting, despite no music that plays, and you've got Duke nukem 3D, a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is old school. If you cant find it for five bucks you need to look harder. This was the 
 ultimate lan party game. Any computer can run it (unless you run XP then you need to do some homework 
 to make it work but it will!!) . I remember spending hours upon hour fragging and getting fragged 
 in this game. My partner at work and I just fired this game up recently and placed against each 
 other for a few hours. It is still tons of fun.
  Graphics are horrible by todays standards, as are the sounds and pretty much all the technology 
 related stuff, but this game can still be a huge time killer, so Its time to kick some a** and 
 chew some bubble gum and Im all out of gum!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: casteye
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  sins i got dukenuken 1 i loved it and it was amazing its grafix were funny and since then the collection 
 started i won the game everyday. its just very funny its like doom but better. the best part is the 
 its on computer so you can cheat on it so you you beat the game in one hour lol. i new what you 
 had to do so i stopped and tried to find secrets and then the game got dumb so i had to move on 
 to duke nukem 3d atomic edition lol and the same thing happend for like a month and now i no everything 
 about the game lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZuljinRaynor
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Duke Nukem 3D, although out since 1996, is still one of the best games out there. The interactivity 
 even though it was a lot for its time, still surpasses that of current games.
  
  You play as Duke Nukem although a much more wise-talking Duke than in the previous 2 games but 
 it adds the humor to the game. This type of humor was being brewed in Rise of the Triads.
  
  A must play game even now. If Sprites are not your cup of tea, you can search the net for Jonof's 
 JFDuke3d Port and the High Definition Pack (WIP) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmare_XM
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2005 7:03 am PT
Review:  This is my first review, so it might not be very good, but here I go:
  
  Graphics:
  
  They may be primitive now, but back then, it was actually considered good-looking. The environments 
 are some of the best of that time, with polygonal arenas, they were gorgeous back in '96. The only 
 REAL problem with the graphics is the sprites. Sure, they are hideous now, but back then, they 
 STILL weren't all that great. The only sprites that aren't entirely pixelated are the weapons in 
 Duke's hands in first person. They DO look good.
  
  Sound:
  
  Well, I can't really say much about the audio, since the computer I played it on had a screwed-up 
 sound card. So, no opinion on that, though I bet it's good.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Now here's the essential in ANY video game. The levels were pretty large, and the enemies were 
 aplenty and fun to kill. When you finally solve all the puzzles, get all the keycards, and kill 
 all the enemies, you finally get to face off with one of the bosses. They were HUGE, and they could 
 kill you just by touching you. You had to think to kill them, but of course, if you were in god 
 mode, you didn't have to. Sometimes it gets frustrating, but it's just plain fun almost all of 
 the time.
  
  Value:
  
  Not much to say here, though I have played it hours on end every day when I got it, and only stopped 
 repeatedly playing it when I couldn't because we got a new computer. Believe me, you'll be playing 
 this long after you beat the game. I personally think the replay value is SKY HIGH.
  
  Tilt:
  
  I never understood what the HELL this meant, so not much at ALL to say about it.
 
  
  Overall, this is one HELL of a game. Hail to the KING, baby! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WaddleDoo8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2005 6:15 am PT
Review:  Before Duke Nukem 3D, the "Duke Nukem" games were mere 2D side-scrolling shooters with strange 
 robot enemies and poor gameplay. But that all changed when Duke 3D, the summit point of the series, 
 was released for the PC. This game was very different from the first two Duke games, since it's 
 a first person shooter and not a 2D side scroller (hence the name "Duke Nukem 3D) . During it's 
 time, Duke 3D had amazing graphics, fun gameplay, quite a bit of blood, and of course, funny one-liners 
 from the main character himself, Duke.
  
  Duke Nukem 3D has you in first-person perspective of Duke Nukem, an alien exterminating bad@$$. 
 Throughout the game, you can pick up various weapons, varying from a rocket launcher to a "freezethrower". 
 The goal of each level is to reach a "nuke button", which is simply a large radioactive symbol 
 at the end of each level that you have to press to advance to the next level. You can play the 
 game at any difficulty setting, which sets how many enemies you'll fight in each level. Each level 
 has something new to it, and it barely gets repetitive. You'll be fighting plenty of evil aliens, 
 varying from mutated police cops to omnious killer octopi. Depending on which "episode" you play 
 in the game, you'll start off in either a run down city or an alien-infested space station. The 
 end of each episode has an huge, fast, powerful boss. The levels in each episode lead to another, 
 even though there's almost no narration. In order to follow along what's going on, you'll have 
 to pay attention to what Duke says in his one-liners.
  
  Duke Nukem 3D also has a map editor for those who want to make their own maps. However, the map 
 editor is hard to use at first, and it'll take a while for you to get used to it.
  
  Duke Nukem 3D has a large community of websites that have downloadable user maps, giving the game 
 more re-playability. It depends the quality of the site that you go to that determines how good 
 the user maps are. Many of the downloadable user maps are very good, some of them being amazing.
 
  
  With its excellent gameplay, amazing graphics for its time, and a whole load of humor, it's hard 
 to say anything bad about this game. Duke Nukem 3D is a classic shooter that you don't want to 
 miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2005 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This rendition of Duke Nukem was the ultimate in attitude and really went out on the edge wtih 
 its content. The weapons were creative, the game play was smooth, the monsters scary, the hookers 
 in the strip joint priceless. If you haven't played this one, try and find it somewhere, you really 
 should play it just to get a feel fo the grit and attitude in this game. 
  
  The level settings were creepy and kept you on the edge of your seat, while the sound really kept 
 you pumped, the graphics were still blocky but for the time period they were cutting edge and seeing 
 ol' duke give money to the strippers again PRICELESS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2005 1:49 am PT
Review:  Duke 3D is simply fantastic! It's fun, immersive and has solid graphics, sound and gameplay.
  
  Duke Nukem must once again save the Earth, this time from an invasion of aliens known as Cycloids. 
 
  
  Duke 3D is stunning for it's time. It has about 30 levels, including several secret ones, like 
 a Launch Pad, in which you launch the rocket! This is one of the most fun levels in the game! 
 
  
  Duke starts off on Earth, then travels to space and returns to Earth once more, for the final battle 
 with the Cycloid Emperor.
  
  You will fight a variety of foes, and travel through many landscapes and locales, such as Hollywood, 
 a prison, a toxic waste dump, a launch pad, an orbital space station, San Andreas Fault and a sprawling 
 metropolis. There is a huge and seamless journey in your quest to save Earth. 
  
  Duke 3D is astonishing. It excels in every field that a game must perform.
  
  You must get 
 this game!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mauro_Rosati
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Hello, yeah, it's a very very very very very very very (Mmhhh.... maybe I've repeated it too many 
 times) old game, but it's love at first sight when in 1997 I had my first computer, and played 
 for the first time this great and enjoyable game. For that time Duke Nukem 3D was a ste ahead even 
 if the graphics was in a fake 3D (the famous build engine, the father of all FPS games) in short, 
 you saw the environment world in a third dimension but the enemies, and many objects were bi-dimensional 
 (you could verify this turning around at some of the monsters you had defeated, they'll show always 
 the same face, it was a kind of optical illusion, you believed that enemies were in real 3D but 
 you'd realize that it wasn't so) .
  The gameplay is great, Duke's taunt phrases are awesome "Nobody steals our chicks.. and lives", 
 or "It's time to kick head ancd chew bubble gum" "Wanna dance", and much more.
  The sound it's great, Duke's voice acting is great and for that time it was enough advanced.
 
  One of the greatest game of the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rover301
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I was six years when I first played DN 3D. I thought it was one of the best games ever made. I 
 still think that.
  
  The gameplay is like every FPS-shooter, but it's still great. It plays like an old-school FPS. 
 
  
  The graphics are great but not amazing. The lightning effects are great but the character models 
 aren't very detailed. The textures are very detailed and impressive to watch. In some parts of 
 the game you can watch television. The levels are pretty different from eachother. A cinema, a 
 disco etc. 
  
  The weapon arsenal isn't that impressive, but I liked the shotgun very much.
  
  The sound isn't 
 very well. It's pretty annoying. But it's just a fun game to play and still has is charm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CGS-Sledge
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 17, 2004 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Why is it one of the most important games? Duke let us know that it wasn't all run and gun. It 
 was run and gun and then talk a lot of trash. Duke was the first to make us care about the character 
 we were playing. Duke was like the Conan of our time. Big as life with an even bigger gun to back 
 up all the smack talk he dished out. On top of Duke's lovable personality the game creators pushed 
 the envelope on the true 3D experience. It was one of the first games that you really truly felt 
 like you were inside the game. Duke toted jet packs that let you fly around the maps. You could 
 set traps with trip mines and pipe bombs. All while Duke let your enemies know who the true badass 
 was.
  
  The graphics still look pretty good even into todays games like Doom 3 and Far Cry. That is saying 
 a lot for a game that came out in 1994. Even though cartoonish Duke still looks pretty darn good 
 for a 10 year old game.
  
  Now it is 2004 and we have not seen the last of Duke. We wait (I mean wait for what seem like a 
 life time) for Duke Nukem to make a big come back. To have the Duke lay some more of those one 
 liners we love so much on us. All while wading knee deep in alien slime and toting the biggest 
 darn gun a man can carry.
  
  If by some strange chance you have never played Duke Nukem 3D, (and I can't see how that could 
 be unless you are a two year old) . Do yourself a huge favor, get it along with some bubble gum 
 and let Duke take you on the ride of your life. What are you waiting for, Christmas?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuParNovA
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 24, 2004 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I played this game when I was 6 years old, and out of the fact it scared me a bit, I found it a 
 great game. The 3D of the game is much better then newer games like Tactical ops (2002 - empty 
 chambers and angular hills) . There are lots of secret rooms, elevators and there's even a party 
 room with fancy lights. You can wander about in the drains and be drowend in a chinese city totally 
 under water. The enemies are cool and scarry. There's a punk - wild board and bulls that shoot 
 with slime. Bosses that shoot rockets with their eyes or breaktrough the ceiling to splat you on 
 the wall. There also are some kind of green headcrabs that suck the health out of you. To kill 
 these creepy freaks you'll need some loaded weapons like the Freezer, devastor, RPG, and lots of 
 other cool stuff like those helpfull or necessary items like a jetpack and asteroids. I'd say: 
 "Try this, it's great old school"
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
