-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Duke Nukem 3D: Atomic Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/dukenukem3datomicedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 7.4, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 711 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: 3D Realms
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Duke Nukem Atomic is a heck of a fun addition to the original episodes. 

 Duke Nukem 3D's popularity really mushroomed after its release earlier this year. Wowing gamers 
 with smooth graphics, innovative weaponry, and its crass-talking, alien-squishing first-person 
 hero, GT Interactive's blockbuster title offered an alternative to 3D staples such as Doom. Gamers 
 can't get enough of Duke, the computerized, testosterone-enhanced Bruce Campbell who - and we may 
 catch some flak for this - slightly resembles Vanilla Ice. Sure, he doesn't come close to being 
 a wanna-be rap artist, but "icing" is still his game in a brand new episode (entitled "The Birth") 
 featured in 3D Realms' latest Duke patch, Duke Nukem 3D Plutonium Pak. This episode features eleven 
 new levels, a new weapon, a couple of fresh-faced cretins, and plenty of new offhand quips.   

 
 So, you're dying to hear about the new items in this edition, right? Okay, first off, there's a 
 weapon called an "expander," which you get automatically when you pick up the trusty "shrinker" 
 weapon. When you pump enough rounds of the expander into an enemy, he'll inflate and burst, Dig-Dug-style. 
 The new enemies, however, are no Pookas. One of the LAPD pig-cops from the previous game now treads 
 around in a miniature tank and fires multiple rounds of ammo at you. The other new kid on the block 
 is this lanky alien guy who pummels you and has the ability to shrink you down to squashable size. 
 Both of these characters are damn tough to kill and will probably have you high-tailing it in the 
 opposite direction most of the time.  

 But the real enjoyment from this add-on comes from exploring the new levels and discovering the 
 wealth of humorous pop-culture references. In "Duke Burger," Duke has to stomp aliens loitering 
 around a fast-food restaurant - which, given the oversized revolving Duke Big Boy, is presumably 
 his own franchise. In "Shop-N-Bag" you get to smoke your enemies in a grocery store, the aisles 
 of which resound with dippy Tijuana Brass Muzak (let's see - a quart of milk, three frozen dinners 
 andhey, who's that scaly guy over there with the cannon?!) . In a later episode, you can take 
 a ride on "Babes of the Caribbean" in an amusement park overrun by the familiar porno-obsessed 
 extra-terrestrials. (You may not find Walt's cryogenically suspended body here, but you may want 
 to use the "freezer" gun to conduct some of your own preservative experiments on those "alien bastards.") 
 Finally, in "It's Impossible," Duke encounters a scenario which should be familiar to most of you 
 who saw a blockbuster Tom Cruise movie which featured a lot of missions. If any object in the game 
 feels destruction-worthy, you can blast it to shards. I took particular joy in decimating a few 
 dairy freezers, some expensive computer equipment, and an innocent amusement-park mascot. Continuing 
 in the tradition of the original Duke levels, each level in "The Birth" is completely interactive 
 and has its own unique personality.   

 It's generally accepted that, while Duke Nukem 3D is a challenging and addictive first-person game, 
 it contains characters and situations which some people might find morally questionable. The developers 
 of this latest Duke installment definitely sought to cash in once more on the controversial raciness 
 that runs rampant in the previous game. So be warned: If private S&amp; M parties and animatronic, 
 bikini-clad sword fighters offend you, you may not want to wander around the wrong corner in this 
 game.   

 But controversial stuff aside, Duke Nukem Atomic is a heck of a fun addition to the original episodes. 
 My only real complaint is that the levels are fairly expansive, and you'll feel like you're roaming 
 around a ghost town if you play over the network with fewer than four players. Still, any Duke 
 fan hungry for a little more "unnecessary roughness" will want to shell out for this one.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: scigeni
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  This game is totally underrated. I kept playing this game for years and years without getting bored. 
 It is the best first person shooter game so far, so I recommend everyone that just wants to have 
 plain fun to play this game. 3D Realms is a great company just because of this game. There are 
 no flaws in this game. Both the single-player and multi-player are extremely fun and highly addictive. 
 The multi-player will keep you playing non-stop, whether you were playing LAN or Online. I can't 
 wait for Duke Nukem Forever. I hope it is as good as this one.
  
  Every level is a new thing, each with its own secrets and monsters. This game also has an editor. 
 Which allows you to create and share your own maps. You can also download maps created by other 
 players so you can never get bored! 
  
  Duke Nukem 3D: Atomic Edition ROCKS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Duke Nukem, I though it was gonna be another one of his famous side scrolling 
 adventure games that I really didn't care for much. But then I heard the "3D" that followed his 
 name and my curiosity spiked. So I quickly (well... back when my fastest connection was 9600bps 
 yes... thats nine thousand six hundred, so it wasn't quickly and took me 8 hours to download the 
 5mb demo) and cleared up some room on my whopping 120mb (yes megabyte) harddrive so I could install 
 this bad boy. I was completely amazed. Outstanding graphics, weapons like no other game, and just 
 the overall ****kicker attitude of this game made me fall right in love! It was really something 
 in it's own league and just reeked of testosterone, which of course made it just pure awesome. 
 Duke's one liners became instant classics to millions and still get used to this day in a variety 
 of ways. 
  
  Duke really didn't have much of a plot, which was very typical of FPS in the 90's, but it did help 
 explain little things here and there. Never the less, this game was just a pure blast to play and 
 an instant classic of it's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejackal465
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  It's time to kick ass and chew bubblegum... but I'm all out of gum... 
  
  Nintendo is a kiddie company. FACT. Look at the Nintendo 64's port of Duke Nukem 3D as proof. Duke 
 3D: a game about blowing aliens' heads off, swearing, and about strippers. After a port to Nintendo, 
 the cleverly renamed Duke Nukem 64 lost significant gore, every bad phrase in Duke's vocabulary, 
 and every single girl. This is a problem for me for one reason: Duke Nukem is no **** In the second 
 episode, he threatens the alien overlord before he goes to battle with him by promising that he 
 will Tear off [his] head and [poop] down his neck ... and he does...
  
  Duke Nukem is and always has been a huge name in gaming. With this update of the most popular and 
 sucessful of the Duke titles, Duke 3D, interest in the series rose once again, resulting in the 
 unveiling of the planned Duke Nukem Forever (which is another story altogether) . Duke 3D: Atomic 
 takes everything good about 3D and makes it better. More frames-per-second, more blood and gore, 
 true 3D enemies (rather than sprites) , more explosions, more levels, and or course, more pixelated 
 ****
  
  Duke: Atomic is the revamped story of Duke 3D. Duke is returning from his adventures escaping from 
 the aliens who abducted him when his shuttle is shot-down above LA. Duke is not campaigning to 
 stop the aliens from taking the world's lives, property, and of course, the world's babes.
  
  Many graphical updates have occured since the original title. Enemies are now in true 3D (except 
 for battlelord bosses and the overlord) and, as such, bleed (semi) realistically. If you shoot an 
 alien at point-blank range with a shotgun, blood and bits of flesh will splash all over walls. 
 In the previous game, the enemy would fall into a nice, neat sprite on the floor, here, realism 
 comes into play. With more frames-per-second, the atomic edition runs smoother, plays faster, and 
 requires much less dramamine to handle than duke 3D. A fourth episode was made for this edition 
 in order to shake-up the action. This fourth game -- The Birth --is easily more difficult that all 
 three previous ones combined, and is a great addition to the game.
  
  And as an ending remark: ****
  
  HeadshotJackal's Rating:
  I gave this game a 9/10. It is 
 a solid title and a great shooter. Hail to the King, Baby! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanIce2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the greatest games ever made, I've now map-maked for 9 years just in this game, 
 moving to next-gen games like HL2? f**k that.
  this game has my favorite map-maker, this game is a masterpiece at map-making.. I've made 50 normal 
 levels, and some test levels..
  this game has really been with me all my life.. how would my life be like without this game? it 
 would be horrible.. I still even make maps.. and working on few right now. the guy that made the 
 High Resolution Pack for this game is a genius.. a true genius.. playing HRP is like playing Duke 
 Nukem Forever, only better, you can play your good old maps from the past.
  this is the reason why I love Duke Nukem.. and this I think, remains the best DN game, and I will 
 never get rid off it from my top 10 list.. and I think my best online game, RE Outbreak file#2 
 is leaking out..
  nothing beats the old-school coolness of Duke Nukem. it's just.. awesome.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twigsta666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Duke Nukem, the Man among Men, the biggest, baddest, manliest, one-lining womanizer/alien killer 
 to set a mighty foot on Earth.
  This game is 11 years old, and for me, still enjoyable. For it's time, the graphics and sounds 
 are pretty good, and the theme song is awesome, though that may just be nostalgia. Throw in Duke's 
 hilarious, timeless lines, and you've already got something good going. But that's just the tip 
 of the iceberg.
  Guns. Lots of them. In 1996, Quake came out. It had 8 guns, 2 of them were super-versions of guns.
 
  Duke Nukem has 11 unique guns. micro-rockets, laser trip bombs, freeze rays, shrink rays, microwave 
 expanders, and the rest of your standard shooting weapons. Oh, and of course, Duke's mighty melee 
 weapon, The Mighty Foot .
  If you want levels upon levels of straightforward old-school carnage, go and find this game.
 
  If you don't, go find this game, because you might enjoy it anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Its the basic add-on package to the original DN3d. With a few added sprites in levels and one or 
 two new monsters.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  wow i cant count 
 or tell you the endless hours i spent building maps for DN3d using BUILD! I still have the whole 
 collection stored on a disk somewhere. big to small some i spent weeks on 8 hours a day! yes yes 
 i had no life in grade 9 haha i admit.
  
  Anyways, this game blew my mind! at the time the graphics were top notch and the gameplay was unreal. 
 from shooting pool, stuffing 20's down strippers tops to taking a piss in the toilet for health 
 haha classic. you just dont see those little features in other FPS even to this day!
  
  Online made this game so cool! that old game server TEN was where it was at. especially that crack 
 where u can play the full version that was hillarious.
  
  anyways back to the game, The only thing it lacked was variety of monsters... i found myself killing 
 pigs and those human sized aliens 90% of the entire game.
  
  the bosses were well done though, esp playing co-op with a friend. Nothing beat that!
  
  Sounds 
 were classic, Nukems one liners always cracked me up.
  
  I wish they made a good sequel to this classic.
  The maps were so detailed from 3d-Realms its 
 so sad to see them go out of business, : ( we will remember you guys!
  
  Value: i think this game can be found for free if you look hard on the internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gualmilward
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  WoW!
  Duke Nukem 3D: Atomic Edition... Did you never heard this Name DUKE!
  
  Duke Nukem its a great game, if you never played you are loosing your time, because Duke Nukem 
 is Cool, you play and play. Duke Nukem 3D has a Incredible Gameplay, you can go to Bathroom (xD) 
 and recover your life or drink some water. Did you heard those sounds....
  
  Come get Some , Yeah, Piece of Cake , Hail to the king, baby! , Let's rock. , Nobody steals our 
 chicks... and lives. , This really pisses me off. , You wanna dance? , What are you waiting for? 
 Christmas? , Who wants some? , Boooorn to be wiiiiild!.
  
  Please, Plays Duke 3D AE its really cool!
  
  Supports Multi player, you don't need a New PC. 
 On Pentium MMX runs great!
  
  Check the HRP (High Resolution Pack) Makes the graph +1000 better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  duke nukem atomic edition is a great (expansion set) for duke nukem 3D, it features a new episode, 
 some new enemies and weapons.
  Of course it features the old duke nukem humor and interactive environment.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  +Duke nukem has a solid gameplay just like doom and blood.
  +Interactive environments are always good
  +Good amount of levels
  +Big variety between weapons 
 and enemies
  +Weapons are fun to use
  -Considering this is actually a expansion set it doesn't offer more in the way of value (two episodes 
 would have been better) .
  
  Graphics:
  +Graphics look great considering this is a old game
  +Runs entirely smooth
  
  Sounds:
  
 +Pigs sound cool
  +weapons sound overpowered (some) which is awesome
  +Good music (old duke nukem style)
  
  Value:
  +Omg this is absolutely amazing: 4 episodes 
 and some multiplay
  
  Tilt:
  +Duke nukem is highly original (because its duke nukem)
  +Easy game too play, no hard controls and stuff
  
  Duke nukem 3d atomic is great...........!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1k0_88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 14, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  It's still a classic. Duke was and still is the oldest gun-slinger in gaming history. Duke has 
 earned his spurs in 2 2-d adventures before he leapt over to 3-d in Duke Nukem 3D: when I was younger, 
 it was my favorite game. The humor is just too corny for words, but that's just the magic of Duke 
 Nukem: everything is corny. And if it isn't corny, it's gory, bloody, and sexy (in a rather pixelated 
 way, of course) . The story doesn't matter actually: there is none. Aliens take over the world, 
 kidnap women and do all kinds of 'experiments' (hehe) on them. Duke doesn't like that and picks 
 up his arms. the plot in a nutshell. I hope that the next installment will be just like that. Gameplay 
 over graphics is all I have to say. it looks so dated right now, but it's still very satisfying 
 to kick the brain out of a pig cop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Duke Nukem has always been a great shooter. You have this bug, buff guy who has a cool voice and 
 runs around blasting aliens and saving babes. That is my idea of some wholesome fun. Atomic Edition 
 is a worthy addition to anyone's PC collection who likes either Duke Nukem, shooting, or both.
 
  
  Gameplay is great. We have a standard FPS here and mostly sticks to the traditional FPS game format. 
 However, Atomic Edition has some other stuff that other FPS games don't have. It has the babe-saving, 
 the whole bucket-load of secrets to discover, the use of some interesting items ("holo Duke", steroids, 
 etc.) . I like the fact you can attempt to use an arcade machine featuring Duke Nukem and Duke will 
 say: "I don't have time to play with myself." That comment cracked me up big time. Other little 
 things would be like in the restroom. Walk up to the toilet and press spacebar and Duke will relieve 
 himself with a funny comment. You can even flush the toilet. Things like this make Atomic Edition 
 really fun, and give it the uniqueness that makes Atomic Edition and other Duke games classics. 
 The controls on Atomic Edition is fine, as you can simply check them on the main screen at any 
 time during the game. They are simple and mostly standard to this kind of game. Gameplay definitely 
 rocks.
  
  Graphics lack, because it's an old DOS game, but you sure as heck shouldn't let this fact deter 
 you from buying this game. Despite the dated graphics, you can still see what's going on, you can 
 still see the red blood, the aliens, the babes, and make out what is within a level pretty well. 
 The weapon models are very good, and they serve up enough graphical momentum to make it seem like 
 a real gun. Other things done well would be fires, which look real and running water as well. Controls, 
 though may seem like a pain for newbies, will be learned easily enough over time.
  
  Now, depending on the PC, sound may rock or stink. On my PC, the voices are choppy and I can hardly 
 hear them. That's about the only down on sound, and everything else sounds pretty good. The gunshots 
 and the SFX are all pretty good.
  
  Value is a big plus. You have 4 different episodes, and they each sport different levels and puzzles. 
 This element makes Atomic Edition worth your time. You'll go "through" the game once, then probably 
 feel inclined to go through again. And maybe even again. The game is a lot of fun to play.
  
  Tilt is max, as Atomic Edition has something to offer to either old-schoolers, Duke Nukem fans, 
 or shooter fans. Atomic Edition is Duke Nukem and then some, and it has just about everything we 
 have come to expect from a Duke Nukem game. Though it's till Duke, don't say you have completely 
 enjoyed him until you have played Duke Nukem 3D Atomic Edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grave_rob
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 2, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  When people talk about first person shooters that defined the genre I think a lot of people jump 
 towards doom & quake. Granted, they were both great games that had a lot of atmosphere. But to 
 me there is one game during that time period that will forever stand out. & maybe Duke said it 
 best: "I ain't afriad of no quake!"
  
  Duke Nukem 3D is a FPS bleeding out with personality & interactivity. I was in middle school when 
 I 1st got my hands on the shareware & I was in awe. Day & night I played Duke. After picking up 
 the atomic edition friends & I played dial-up deathmatches. The maps were amazing with lots of 
 places to ambush/hideout. No game sucked me in as much as Duke did.
  
  There were two reasons (as I mentioned above) this game was mindblowing & innovative for it's time. 
 First: PERSONALITY. Duke was a badass. He would make comments when blowing people up. He was the 
 ultimate oneliner trash talker. "I'll rip your head off & &%^$ down your neck" -he would say to 
 a boss before the fight...& sure enough, he would follow thru with those promises. You weren't 
 playing the game as a no-name marine who never talked, you were DUKE.
  
  Second: INTERACTIVITY. There wasn't a game out like this before 1996. Flip switches. Drink from 
 waterfountains. Turn lights on & off. Use jetpacks. Holodukes (holographic images of yourself to 
 trick your enemies) . Tripwires. There was so much fun involved in doing seemingly trivial things 
 like flushing toilets.
  
  The only bad thing I can say about Duke is he hasn't aged well. The game is now 10 years old & 
 it looks it. But the good news is some diehard Dukers have made a HIGH RESOLUTION PACK updating 
 the sprite animations to 3d models & it's free. You can pick that up here:
  
  http://hrp. planetduke. gamespy. com/
  
  So dust off your Duke cd & get to kickin some alien's 
 anuses. The game is still a lot of fun after all these years. & If you've never played Duke3D but 
 you consider yourself a FPS fan you owe it to yourself.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Duke Nukem 3D Atomic Edition is a classic FPS that lead the way for virtually every FPS after. 
 It is along side the Doom and Quake classics. What other game has cutscenes where Duke **** inside 
 an aliens throat, or kicks a skull through a fieldgoal? This is one of the best FPS games ever 
 made.
  The gameplay is straightforward WASD and click. The interface and options are standard. The grahpics 
 are 3D and of course great if you went back in time. But that doesnt matter because this game offers 
 so much more than looks. It has an explosivly fun multiplayer and a great asssortment of levels 
 and weapons. Who could forget the weapon that shrinks your enemy or blows them up till they get 
 so big their skin bursts. Or remember all those crazy alien filled space levels. Everything crafted 
 perfectly for a good laugh or a good frag.
  So if you even for a second want to consider yourself a true gamer, drop some money or bandwidth 
 and get Duke 3d. Your reputation is at stake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casteye
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  i was waiting then i got it and it was awesome i played and played this game has good grafixs thats 
 what i but when you play it it is awesome you can fly around you can do anything really i loved 
 it i played for about 13 hours the first day i got it it really is good i thought the grafixs were 
 good the sounds were not that good but they were good but i had one problem is that it glitched 
 on me so that was not as good but then it was awesome i really do recomend this game it just is 
 like the second best in its series and the best part of the game is when you have the cheats that 
 when it gets interesting yea really interesting well i just say that this was a great game.
  
  BY: CASTEYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is old school. If you cant find it for five bucks you need to look harder. This was the 
 ultimate lan party game. Any computer can run it (unless you run XP then you need to do some homework 
 to make it work but it will!!) . I remember spending hours upon hour fragging and getting fragged 
 in this game. My partner at work and I just fired this game up recently and placed against each 
 other for a few hours. It is still tons of fun.
  Graphics are horrible by todays standards, as are the sounds and pretty much all the technology 
 related stuff, but this game can still be a huge time killer, so Its time to kick some a** and 
 chew some bubble gum and Im all out of gum!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyRules
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  When FPS' are released, they always seem to "require" something revolutionary or innovative before 
 people will respect it. Not such the case with Duke Nukem. This game took FPS' for what they were 
 and made a really fun game with it. Set in an absurd world, Duke Nukem takes us into a world filled 
 with Aliens taking over, and stealing our chicks. That's the premise, now go grab Duke and kick 
 some butt. The level designs for the game are very creative and are meant to entertain in many 
 different ways. Whether it is the interactive ness of the machinery in a room, dancing ladies to 
 throw money at, or even a Duke Nukem video game that when used delivers a funny joke from Duke.... 
 which leads me to my next point. A lot of the fun comes from the main character himself, Duke. 
 The script for Duke Nukem is nothing short of excellent. Take an action movie filled with corny 
 yet funny one liners and you have Duke. I've found myself killing a creature with a certain gun 
 just so I could instigate Duke to say something. And he certainly isn't short on things to say. 
 The weapons in the game are very diverse and over the top. All of which however, are very fun to 
 use... including setting up bombs that trigger when your enemy trips them. Unfortunately, at the 
 time of this review, this game is extremely old. Chances are you've already heard of and or played 
 this game. In the event you haven't, I would recommend picking up a copy and running through it. 
 If you can remove the fact that the graphics are not up to today's standards, and most of the game 
 play/physics elements that we've grow used to haven't even been developed yet (Quake was new on 
 the scene at this time) you'll find that this game has it all! Where the heck is Duke Nukem Forever!?!?!?! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
