-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Duke Nukem: Manhattan Project
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/dukenukemmanhattanproject/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 31, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.8, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 712 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Arush Entertainment
Developer: Sunstorm Int.
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date:     May 14, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Manhattan Project is occasionally frustrating, but when it's good, it's very, very good. 

 Most people know Duke Nukem only from his 3D adventures. Those who recall the heyday of shareware, 
 however, will remember that Duke got his start in a pair of 2D side scrollers. Sunstorm Interactive, 
 best known for the Deer Hunter games, has returned Duke to his roots. Duke Nukem: Manhattan Project 
 is a traditional side-scrolling action game with modern technical trappings. It's straightforward 
 and good-looking, and its budget price helps make up for the fact that it could have used some 
 more fine-tuning.           Most of the boss fights are uninspired.    

  Manhattan Project is made up of eight episodes that consist of three levels each. It's a good-sized 
 game, and it ends at just about the time it gets boring. The environments are diverse, and the 
 introduction of new enemies, weapons, and challenges is paced well enough to keep things interesting. 
 Just as the basic gameplay starts to get a little repetitive, the game will throw some new activity 
 your way. For instance, at the end of level three, you'll need to jump your way to the first car 
 of a moving subway, leaping over and ducking under oncoming beams. The final episode takes place 
 on a space station, and the lower gravity means you must readjust your jumping patterns. Manhattan 
 Project could have benefited from more diverse challenges like these, but the few it throws at 
 you are fun.   

  Your goal is to stop a madman named Mech Morphix, who is infecting New York City with a radioactive 
 substance called GLOPP. In addition to imprisoning the Big Apple's exotic dancers, Morphix is causing 
 the roaches and rats (as well as the alligators of urban legend) to change into huge, weapon-wielding 
 beasts. Duke will also face his old adversaries, the pig cops.   

  Each episode takes place in a distinct environment. You'll run across the roofs of skyscrapers, 
 through the streets of Chinatown, go down into the subway tunnels, make your way through a sewer, 
 a tanker, and a futuristic factory, before finally ending up on a space station. The levels are 
 huge, and most have several paths you can take. There are plenty of rewards, power-ups, and secret 
 areas if you're willing to explore, and a good deal of the game's fun comes from trying to find 
 the 10 "nuke" symbols in each level, which increase your maximum health and the maximum amount 
 of ammo you can carry.   

  As with any self-respecting side scroller, each episode of Manhattan Project ends with a boss battle. 
 A few of these are noteworthy. The first, a lengthy battle against a helicopter and its occupants, 
 is a promising start. It has multiple stages, and even if the last stage is a bit too difficult, 
 it promises that each episode will end with something equally epic. Unfortunately, you'll have 
 only two more interesting boss battles, with the final one being the best of the lot. The rest 
 are just straightforward firefights in small areas against enhanced versions of enemies you've 
 been fighting all along.   

  Duke's selection of seven weapons is interesting, and managing them is simple because Manhattan 
 Project has only three types of ammunition. Actually, only three of the weapons are very useful, 
 and ammo is plentiful enough that you'll hardly ever need to switch from your favorite. The primary 
 weapons you'll use are the rocket launcher, the shotgun, and the assault rifle. Other weapons include 
 pipe bombs, a pistol, a GLOPP gun, and a pulse cannon. The GLOPP gun is a neat idea -- it counteracts 
 the effects of mutation on enemies, reducing them to a helpless insects or rodents, which can then 
 be squashed with your foot. The pulse cannon is your typical first-person shooter superweapon, 
 and it needs to be charged for a few seconds to reach full strength. Unfortunately, you'll rarely 
 need to use it, because combat is usually over with a shot or two.   

  Manhattan Project features a cinematic camera that switches angles and perspectives to keep things 
 visually interesting. It usually works, and if nothing else, the game looks great. The levels are 
 full of interesting details, and the effective use of dynamic lighting helps considerably. But 
 occasionally, an object in the foreground will block an enemy or an item. At some key moments, 
 foreground objects will become transparent, and so it's strange that the game doesn't use this 
 visual aid more often. And when the camera zooms in close, you won't be able to see enemies that 
 are just ahead, forcing you to fire indiscriminately into the distance as you run around.   

  The game's use of the Z-axis is equally problematic. Manhattan Project essentially plays like 
 a 2D side scroller, but occasionally, you can move from one linear path to another, and often, 
 Duke's path will curve and turn on its own. It's a nice change from just running side to side (and 
 owes more than a small debt to platformers such as Pandemonium and Klonoa) , but it has some problems. 
 If enemies are just ahead of you, but at some point where the path slightly changes, there's no 
 way to shoot at them until you are right next to them. And the points at which you can change linear 
 paths often seem artificial, giving you the sense that you're running through a maze with no walls 
 or blockades of any kind.           The lighting effects help make the environments interesting. 
    

  Manhattan Project has a few other issues. The controls are occasionally unresponsive. Sometimes, 
 we found that the jump button would not respond at all (using either the keyboard or a gamepad) , 
 which is a significant problem in a game that is almost entirely made up of jumping from one thing 
 to the next. And the moving platforms are sometimes randomly timed, so you'll have to wait for 
 long periods to execute some necessary jumps.   

  With a few tweaks, Duke Nukem: Manhattan Project might have been a truly great game. But even with 
 its minor shortcomings, it provides enough fun to warrant its budget price. Besides, Duke Nukem's 
 wisecracks are funny, if a bit repetitive. It's hard not to laugh when he reaches a locked door 
 and growls "motherf****** key cards!" And the levels are huge and interesting to explore. If you 
 liked classic action games like Blackthorne or Flashback, or even the original Duke Nukem games, 
 then you're sure to enjoy this attempt to make a modern update. Manhattan Project is occasionally 
 frustrating, but when it's good, it's very, very good.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Doomu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Duke Nukem: Manhattan Project is essentially a throwback to the classic side scrolling shooters 
 of the early 90s. In some ways, this means that this game is a return to the series roots, back 
 when good ol' Duke was drinking soda and shooting Robbie Robots. They could've easily called this 
 game 'Duke Nukem Classic' or even 'Duke Nukem 3,' Well, at least they could if Duke Nukem 3D used 
 the old tradition of calling the 3rd game in a series '3D.' The first screen in the game even has 
 a loving rendition of the original Duke sprite in graffiti on a wall. Despite being like the older 
 Duke games, this game doesn't have their style. The older games were much tamer and didn't have 
 the brash, crude humour and stupid punch lines and sometimes excessive violence that made Duke 
 an icon in video games. This game has all of the stuff introduced in Duke 3D. It even has boob 
 physics this time around. The punch lines and one liners are corny, Duke is still a goofy but lovable 
 badass, and there are plenty of equally goofy surreal enemies. Classic enemies like the Pig Cops 
 and probes are here, as well as some new ones like mutated Dominatrix's, who have their own corny 
 dialogue, sometimes they say 'That's a big gun you have..' and 'Come and get me, big boy.' It can 
 be pretty funny when Duke responds to their silly chatter.
  
  While the graphics have aged, they do their job. The textures are decent, and the animation is 
 fast and smooth as it should be. The combat is fast, and it can be great fun at times, but there's 
 a severe flaw: It's way too easy. It makes sense that Duke's health bar is his Ego since hes known 
 for being so egotistical. It even makes sense that when he downs an enemy, his Ego gets bigger. 
 But unfortunately, that novelty wears thin very, very quick. The combat has almost no challenge, 
 as each enemy you down gives you more Ego expanding your life. Power ups are plentiful, and so 
 are enemies, making power ups almost useless. I got bored and switched from easy to medium, and 
 you still got health from beating foes. I switched to hard, and you STILL get health from beating 
 foes. The only difference is its a bit less than in other skill levels. (3 health instead of 10 
 in easy or 5 in medium) and the bigger the baddie, the more ego you get. As I said, the context 
 works, but it wears thin quickly. It's a shame too, because the level design is excellent. The 
 only real challenge here comes from some tricky platform based puzzles, some that cleverly take 
 a 'pseudo-3D' feel as they go in a cylindrical shape. Boss fights are also a tad anti-climactic. 
 Remember the boss fights from Duke Nukem 3D? Their silliness yet awesomeness made them great. Anybody 
 remember the final boss? Putting him on a football and having his grunts in football uniforms made 
 the boss fight instantly 10x more memorable than it would've been otherwise, simply because of 
 the silly but playful humour. The bosses in Manhattan Project are often underwhelming, and they 
 could've easily been better if they at least added some humour to them. They are perfectly forgettable, 
 and that's a shame as well considering the standard enemies all have the DN flavour of silliness 
 and fun.
  
  This game is a good game overall, but it's somewhat disappointing. It has all the substance to 
 be a great game, but certain design choices simply bring it down. It's still a fun game, and it 
 has a healthy dose of the Duke Nukem charm. Its goofy, its funny, its stupid, its violent, but 
 its fun. That's what makes Duke's games great. The level design is also spectacular, but combat 
 falls flat in several areas. If you like Duke Nukem, you'll be doing yourself a favour by playing 
 this game. It shouldn't be very expensive, and it's a treat for anyone that loves Duke. Even if 
 you don't like Duke, but like old school 2D shooters, than you should still pick this game up, 
 once again, its a treat to see a game like this in the modern era. Just don't expect it to rock 
 your world like DN3D did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  He seemingly came out of nowhere. A lone gunman with a penchant for guns, girls, and gore burst 
 onto the PC scene in 1991  but after a three-game rocket ride to success, the bonds of glory addiction 
 began to squeeze too tight. Now, with a future game in development limbo and his celebrity fading 
 fast, Duke Nukem has shocked his detractors by staging a surprise comeback in Duke Nukem: Manhattan 
 Project.
  
  This is Behind the Game: The Duke Nukem Story.
  
  For a young psycho named Duke Nukem, it all began in the PCs hallowed two-dimensional days. Starring 
 in the low-budget Duke Nukem and Duke Nukem 2 from Apogee, Duke whiled away the hours running left 
 and right, hopping on platforms, and killing alien scum dead with a spring in his step and a rocket 
 launcher grasped firmly in his fist.
  When the Big Time called, Duke answered with willful abandon. First-person shooter Duke Nukem 3D 
 was a smash hit, and a sequel, Duke Nukem Forever, was given the green light. But thennothing. 
 The radioactive green flame of Dukes career threatened to extinguishmaybe forever.
  
  Now, Duke has returned to where it all began  running, jumping, and womanizing. In the 3D platform 
 side-scroller Manhattan Project, Duke has dusted off his old catchphrases, added to his repertoire 
 with the same irrepressible verve, and hopped once more into his platform shoes.
  
  Unfortunately, a slap of paint and an extra dimension cant hide the threadbare plot and archaic 
 gameplay mechanics lurking beneath the surface. Though the embrace of an old friend is comforting, 
 Dukes triumphant comeback has the world-weariness of a modern-day Hall &amp; Oates concert  out 
 of touch and a missed opportunity. We cant go for that. No can do.
  
  Manhattan Project starts with the best of intentions: the evil Mech Morphix has infested New York 
 with mutated beasties, baiting Duke into hunting Morphix down and disarming bombs attached to the 
 citys most buxom hoochies. With the motto I go where I please, and I please where I go, Duke 
 races left and right, collecting key cards and killing anything that stands between him and Morphix.
 
  
  But what starts with a tremendous bang ends with a whimper. Nostalgia and quips arent quite enough 
 to carry Manhattan Project to its conclusion: the sameness of the games eight missions (each has 
 three parts) leads to monotony, monotony leads to boredom, and boredom leads to playing other games.
 
  
  Yet even while dangling from the precipice of despair, Duke still manages to pull himself up. Secrets 
 pepper each level like strippers tears on a long, shiny metal pole. Topical jabs are tossed out 
 with the consistency of used prophylactics at a fleabag hotel. (Youre going down like Enron 
 is a nice one.) Best of all, Dukes arsenal of pipe bombs, assault rifles, and pulse cannons turns 
 pig cops into chunks of splattered meat. As Martha Stewart might say, its a good thing.
  
  Duke Nukems explosive resurrection comes at a (good) price. After rapidly descending into an abyss 
 of power-up addiction, gamings legendary star has made his way back to the big time. Back to his 
 gaming roots, the man who likes to kick ass and chew bubble gum is still all out of bubble gum 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcksBocks360
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Duke Nukem: Manhattan Project is the sequel to Duke Nukem Advance, which was released for the gameboy 
 advance a few years ago. you play as Duke Nukem as usual, and you have to take care of a few, no, 
 MANY mutants inside the sewers of New York City. The game is a sidescroller, which might push off 
 some Duke fans, that is, unless you really play it. The controls are very simplistic (run, jump, 
 shoot, open door, collect item) , and make the game similar to Duke Nukem I and Duke Nukem II, and 
 there isn't much variety in gameply. The graphics in DNMP are very good. It has nice textures and 
 character animations, as well as superb lighting effects. Sound effects rank as some of the best 
 features as well, including the things Duke says that are really funny, like: mother**** keycards! 
 , and hmm, so there IS life after death! . Anyway, overall, this game has alot to offer, and i 
 think anyone who is a fan of classic games, and\or Duke Nukem really should play this game. 9.0 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  While not revolutionary, in fact some would call it an unwanted step back, DNMP has enough charm 
 to keep you playing merely because its a bit of good 'ol fashioned fun. You play from the old side 
 scrolling view, but with 3D graphics. And while that doesn't sound too appealing, its a Duke Nukem 
 game, which does make it appealing! But in many way's that is the only thing that MAKES this game, 
 because if it were anything else it wouldn't be worth it. Its traditional in the sense that you 
 have to gun, run, jump, find the key, save the babe, and exit the level. But at the same time, 
 it's still just a great fun game that you don't have to take too seriously, but if you've got time 
 to waste it certainly won't feel like it while you're playing this. Great fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  Hail to the King Baby, Duke is back but this time with different story and game play. This game 
 is play side scroll just like the first Duke
  Nukem similar to Super Mario Bros. The storyline is that Duke Nukem return to Manhattan from his 
 long battles against the aliens scums. 
  The people of Manhattan throw a huge welcome back party to our hero. But peace doesn`t long that 
 last because a new evil have woke up.
  The enemy is Mech Morphix, a cyborg scientist that have created GLOPP that can mutate any living 
 thing into vile creatures. Morphix is using
  GLOOP to create a mutant army and will conquer the world. Morphix crash Duke welcome party and 
 now he is REALLY MAD, so he grab is Golden Eagle and start killing all enemies in sight even Morphix.
 
  
  The game is divide into 8 Episode, each episode have 3 areas that you must passed it first. You 
 must find a card key to exit the but to you must save the BABES first that are trap with GLOPP 
 bombs to passed the. The enemy AI is normal, they are not stupid nor smart. The weapons are cool 
 you start with his famous gun The Golden Eagle then later you add new weapons. But the part of 
 the game is the boss battles some are good
  and others are awesome. The only problem wit the game is that certain areas are frustrated but 
 at the same time fun. If you are a Duke Nukem fan
  you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameBoy83
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Duke Nukem I, II, and III were Id's claim to fame back in the day, (The early 90's "day") and Duke 
 Nukem 3D was one of the most revolutionary FPS's ever, right in there with Doom. A combination 
 of the two has the possibility to be orgasmic. You'd think when 3D Realms puts the fate of this 
 potential in another company's hands, (Remember Sonic 3D Blast for PC) that the King would be desecrated
 
  
  But, surprisingly enough, this hybrid proves to be a fun new concept, almost creating a genre of 
 its own. The gameplay is simple yet fun: Make your way through the (fairly large) level to find 
 the keycard for the exit, all the while shooting, morphing, and kicking shotgun-wielding pig-cops, 
 pistol-toting bipedal alligators, and giant pipebomb-chucking rats. Along with that, in each level 
 there are 10 nukes to collect, which, when collected, upgrade your health and ammo capacity. Oh, 
 and a babe you have to free from a bomb. (Don't worry, it's not timed)
  
  As for the A/V part, the game's pretty good-looking and has some sweet music and sounds. The quality 
 is great.
  
  Beating the game on Easy, Normal, and Hard with all the nukes each unlock a respective reward. 
 That being said, the Hard difficulty (which gives the best reward) isn't super-difficult. This 
 is a GOOD thing. This is not the kind of game to be frustrated with.
  
  It's a bargain bin sleeper, but you might have trouble finding it at stores, so if you can download 
 or buy it from the 3D Realms website, do that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chezzum
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  I found Duke Nukem in the bargain bin at my local electronics store. The price was $3.95 (can) . 
 I took it home and didnt even play it. It sat in my CD case for months. I took it out last week, 
 because I really wanted to play a side-scrolling shooter.
  
  After playing half-way through, I have to say, its a decent game. If you want a mindless, old 
 school side scroller, in the vein of Contra, get this. It is funny. The graphics are really good. 
 And it is really simple, in concept (if it moves shoot it) and gameplay (though you can change 
 the difficulty settings) .
  
  Story: Duke isnt about the story. Hes about the action. Ooh yah! Anyway, Dukes mission is to 
 save New York City from Mech Morphix and his minions. Hot chicks have bombs attached to them. Duke 
 has to save them and the city. Nuff said.
  
  Goals: DNMH doesnt stretch the imagination in the goals department. Get from point A to B. In 
 the middle you will have to find a coloured keycard and free the busty babes. It is all very simple 
 stuff. Still, the designers were obviously conscious of the repetitiveness of these tasks, for 
 even Duke gets angry with each additional card he has to find.
  
  Humour: Where Duke gets his charm is the humour. His one-liners are priceless. I go where I please, 
 I please where I go. Or, look at the signs in the background. For example, in Chinatown, the ad 
 for Kings Noodle restaurant reads, Until youve slurped the Kings noodle you havent tasted 
 anything. 
  
  Graphics: excellent. The building and character designs are crisp, clean and varied. Everything 
 is drawn in such a way that it looks real and cartoony without being too much of either. The explosions 
 are the best thing about the game though. Watching the pigs get blown into a thousand pieces gave 
 me a sick satisfaction that should probably be analyzed by psychologists. But I cant help it. 
 Its the explosions fault. They are big and comical, just plain fun to watch.
  
  Level Design: DNMH is a 2D scroller that operates in a seemingly 3D world. Each level has a depth 
 to it. When I first started playing the game I kept on trying to move forward and back, in and 
 away from the front of the screen. I kept forgetting I could only move left or right. 
  
  The levels are very imaginative. In one level you are in a disco. The lights are flashing and people 
 are dancing all around you. It is the coolest thing I have ever seen in a video game. The strobe 
 lights flash so much I am surprised it hasnt caused seizures.
  
  Wish: My only wish is that this game was on a handheld. It would be great gaming on the go. 
 
  
  Closing comments: DNMH is a fun side-scroller. It can get a bit boring since you have to complete 
 the same tasks in all the levels: kill baddies, collect keycards, save babes, collect nukes, and 
 fight a boss at the end of each level. Though you do get lots of guns to keep the killing varied; 
 you even get a bazooka, which is by far the coolest. The level designs are well done and keep the 
 game from looking repetitive. I would suggest this game to anyone who can get it cheap, say below 
 the 10-15 dollar mark. Like I said at the beginning, I only paid a paltry 4 dollars for it, so 
 I have nothing to complain about. I am just happy that the game kept it that way. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  I've never been a big fan of the Duke Nukem games, because their all flash, no substance. Many 
 people will say the same about Manhatten Project (M. P.) . M. P. has some cool things to offer, like 
 the new 3D design, new weapons, new enemies and levels. All of this is great, but the game is still 
 pretty lame in some ways. 
  
  The game takes place in "The Big Apple" where a madman Mech Morphix, is using a mutating substance 
 called GLOPP to mutate every small creature and bug, like rats and roaches into big weapon-wielding 
 monsters.
  And this starts an adventure through huge levels in The Big Apple!
  
  The gameplay it self is not the best you could have seen, but still fun. There's also a little 
 puzzle-solving in the game and new side missions, like saving the babe and collect all ten "Nukes" 
 in a level. And Duke still has his sick and twisted sense of humor with him: "Rest in; pieces!"
 
  The boss fights isn't the best either. A boss is simply just a normal enemy, only more powerful 
 and intelligent. But this isn't the most satisfying experience. The weapons isn't actually the 
 best you could want. There's too little and it gets boring in the end, because the only guns you 
 need is the rocket launcher and the machine gun.
  
  The graphics is of course new to the Duke Nukem genre. The 3D design is great in many ways, but 
 has some glitches and bugs. The monsters and Duke Nukem himself is looking great, actually! And 
 the level designs is also great and very variated. The weapons looks great also and the background 
 in the levels is also great.
  
  The sound has some ups and downs. The weapon and explosives sounds is a mixed reaction. But Duke 
 himself sounds more funny and twisted than ever: "Motherf*****' keycards!" And the monster sounds 
 is a little disappointing, but no big deal. 
  
  There's actually replay value in the game! The levels are fun and sometimes you can get enough 
 of it, so when you've finished the game once, you have to start all over! 
  
  The GooD:
  - Fun, exciting and variated levels!
  - The new 3D design is superb!
  - Cool voices and sounds!
 
  - Funny gameplay and lots of replay value!
  
  The BaD:
  - Extremely bad storyline.
  - Boring and uninspired boss fights.
  - Some graphic glitches.
  - To few weapons.
  
  Overall 
 Duke Nukem: Manhatten Project is a surprisingly good game, and could be recommended, to all Duke 
 Nukem fans!
  
  - please recommend this review and I'll recommend yours!
  
  Dope999 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechedude
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game takes Duke Nukem to the max....
  
  _______________-=DUKE 
  _______________MANHATTAN 
 
  
  The game kicks off as the senator of New York is giving a speech about the alien menace striking 
 the New York City area. As soon as pig-cops fall down from the sky in the speech area, and duke 
 owns the living crap out of them.. you know this game is going to ROCK. 
  
  -=Gameplay=- The gameplay is a solid side-scrolling game. i reccomend it if you enjoy classic games.
 
  
  -=Graphics=- The graphics are extremely out-dated. do not reccomend for graphics. 
  
  -=Sound=- the sound is great you can hear pig get killed from over a mile away.
  
  -=Value=- 
 The game costs $20 . . . . . buy it used.
  
  -=Tilt: this game is great in all, it settles with a 8.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BruteDux
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  If you want to play a really good game, get this! Great heavy musics, sounds just fantastic, weapons 
 are just absolutelly destructive. The graphics are just great! Really. The difficult levels are 
 really different from each other, what makes the tilt very very very cool! The game is sarcastic, 
 funny at the right way. Duke Nukem rulez, and the bosses are really cool too. The story is well 
 made. It's a game that deserves more than a 7.0. It's a easy game to play, it's really a cool game! 
 The enemies are classic and the itens are the same! It's a really good game, including the women 
 that stay around Duke everytime! Be the king of the world, play Duke Nukem Manhattan Project! 
 
  
  Check it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rover301
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2005 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Duke Nukem: Manhattan Project is a very good game. It's a blast to play. It's sometimes frustrating 
 but it's just a very fun game to play.
  
  This game plays like those side scrollers from the good old days. It's done very well in this game. 
 People who think this game plays like Duke Nukem 3D are wrong. It plays like the original Duke 
 Nukem. But it's a little bit weird that you don't have to reload your gun.
  
  The graphics look good. It's not so revolutionary as half-life 2 or something like that but it 
 it looks pretty good. The game play is just like those old-school games. But it's very fun to play 
 and it's very original too.
  
  DN: MP sounds pretty good. Duke has some great one-liners to keep you entertained. 'Rest in pieces' 
 is my favourite quote. The voice acting in this game is very good. And your enemies sound good 
 to.
  
  DN: MP doesn't last long. It has no multiplayer and the levels are very short.
  
  This is game is a blast to play. But if you don't like side scrollers or old-school games I 
 think you shouldn't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XmasterX01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2005 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This DUKE NUKEM game is great. It is a mix of Classic Duke Nukem (DN1 and DN2) and New Duke Nukem (DN 
 3D and so on) . The graphics are great. It's kind of like a 2D/3D game. It's a side scroller, but 
 has 3D objects (like Duke, Enemies, items) There are a lot of great guns and it's very very fun. 
 It is worth your money. It you aren't into Side Scollers, then that's ok. But it's fun in the end. 
 You can run this game on a on-board video card. So the graphics aren't super-ultra-great like DOOM 
 III, but the graphics are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: almighty_master
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 8, 2004 3:48 pm PT
Review:  OK this is going to be a pretty short review.
  
  Gameplay- Some fun ideas but it gets quite repetitive later on with not a lot being added except 
 for new weapons. All of the controls are good but sometimes you might hit the shoot button instead 
 of the jump button and fall down a hole.
  
  Graphics: They are OK bog standard
  
  Sound: This is the best bit of the game. Over the course of the game he says some very funny stuff. 
 SOme of it gets repetitive but it's all very funny. All the music is just looped dance songs which 
 gets boring after a while. But duke has some good quotes "Would you like to see my gun?" he says 
 to a beautiful woman.
  
  Value: There are quite a few levels which each set of 3 ending with a boss and beginning with a 
 new kind of theme. You can do the previous missions again if you want.
  
  Overall this game is good but not great. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
