-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dune 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/dune2000/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 15, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.9, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 895 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Westwood Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Aug 31, 1998
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While some may take away from Dune 2000 a fleeting sense of nostalgia for the classic, most will 
 invariably leave the game disappointed and wondering how a true sequel might have turned out.

 There are two kinds of people: those who have played Dune II, and those who haven't. Individuals 
 comprising the former category probably retain a fond memory of the game. These, then, are the 
 people for whom Dune 2000 was created. It's a remake of the original, designed to tug at heartstrings 
 with its retouched graphics and sound, and same old gameplay. Dune II combined action and strategy 
 in a famous science fiction setting back in 1993. The formula worked so well that it single-handedly 
 gave rise to a wildly popular gaming genre, much like id Software's Wolfenstein 3D defined the 
 first-person shooter shortly beforehand. Yet neither Dune II nor Wolfenstein withstand the test 
 of time, since so many superior and similar games have emerged since then. For that reason, even 
 those who enjoyed Dune II will find Westwood's remake disappointing, if not distressing.  

 Sure, Dune 2000 looks better than the original, but it doesn't look nearly as good as Dune II did 
 for its time. Certainly, Westwood deserves credit for making the game look more consistent with 
 the 1984 David Lynch film than the original ever did. In particular, the spice harvester and the 
 interstellar frigate look like they were pulled straight from the celluloid, and the new full-motion-video 
 intro and cutscenes, cheesy though they may be, are equally authentic. Otherwise, Dune 2000, even 
 with all-new graphics, looks old and tired - like a less colorful version of Command &amp; Conquer 
 with tiny, plain-looking military units and drab background graphics. With the exception of a few 
 unique units and structures, all three sides look identical. And because the game takes place on 
 a desert planet, every single map looks exactly alike. Thus, other than the occasional crashed 
 ornithopter here and dead sandworm there, every single map looks equally boring.  

 An optimistic way to describe the sound would be to say it corresponds to the graphics appropriately. 
 The sound effects in Dune 2000 are all subdued and weak, with gunfire, explosions, and unit acknowledgments 
 so dry as to make the desert world Arrakis itself go green with envy. At least each warring House 
 has its own narrator much like in the original, who helps differentiate the three just a little. 
 On the other hand, Dune 2000's soundtrack is excellent. Many tracks are directly lifted and enhanced 
 from Dune II; others recall Toto's strange yet stirring score from the film. If only the in-game 
 graphics stood up to the soundtrack and full motion video, at least the substandard gameplay wouldn't 
 seem so obvious.  

 The original Dune II is crude by present-day real-time strategy standards. Mounting a large-scale 
 assault was a cumbersome matter of individually selecting each unit and ordering it to proceed 
 to the enemy's base. Westwood was kind enough to implement band boxing to make Dune 2000 a little 
 more modern, although unit production queues remain absent. Otherwise, the game plays much like 
 it did in 1993: You lay foundation for a base, build structures, mine spice to earn cash, avoid 
 the sandworm, build a lot of units, and attack the enemy. It's true that several gameplay elements 
 of Dune 2000 remain rather interesting - particularly the starport, which allows you to pay up 
 front for reinforcements at the fluctuating market price, usually less than what you'd pay to build 
 your own. But for the most part, Dune 2000 is simple and boring.  

 Part of the problem is that Westwood attempted, but failed, to balance the game. In the original, 
 once you built a trooper, you had no use for infantry; once you built a quad, you no longer needed 
 the trike. In turn, a siege tank put the combat tank out of a job, and it could cream the quad 
 and squish the trooper. So using mixed forces wasn't a very good idea, since the siege tank could 
 pretty much beat them all. Well, Westwood sought to change things for the better in Dune 2000 - 
 the trike mows down infantry, the trooper's bazooka is good against vehicles but weak against other 
 troops, and the quad's rockets can take out a trike easily. The siege tank, in turn, is a potent 
 anti-trooper weapon.  

 Sadly, the combat tank beats them all. It has a bit of trouble shooting infantry, but it can run 
 them down with no problem. And everything else - quad, trike, siege tank - is mincemeat. It's almost 
 like Westwood imposed a rock-paper-scissors model for unit balance, where rock always wins. Still, 
 some may find these attempts to balance the game admirable even if not entirely successful. But 
 die-hard Dune II fans will more than likely see them as sacrilege. Certainly, the game isn't all 
 about the combat tank - each House still has its unique weapons that add a little flair when they 
 finally become available. But more often than not, you'll find yourself building multiple heavy 
 factories to churn out combat tanks quickly, and forgoing construction of other units altogether. 

 Each House has its own campaign that starts out easy and gets tough toward the end. Many of the 
 missions are similar to the original, though Westwood did throw in a few change-ups where you must 
 capture a key installation or defend your position for some period of time, and more. The campaign 
 is actually fun for a while, if only because the cutscenes in between missions are worth the marginal 
 effort; the computer opponent certainly doesn't pose much of a challenge. Unlike the original, 
 Dune 2000 also lets you play against human opponents. Westwood's embedded Internet service lets 
 you jump into games with up to five other players quickly. However, multiplayer games are often 
 inexplicably slow and laggy, even over a network. On top of that, because of the simplistic play, 
 Dune 2000 cannot possibly keep you entertained for long, no matter how many human opponents you 
 can find. So in the end, Dune 2000 is a tragic game, not so much because it is poorly made, but 
 because it is ill-conceived, a tremendous opportunity wasted. While some may take away from Dune 
 2000 a fleeting sense of nostalgia for the classic, most will invariably leave the game disappointed 
 and wondering how a true sequel might have turned out. And those who didn't play the original Dune 
 II in its heyday will likely look upon this remake and wonder how anyone could possibly hold this 
 game dear in any shape or form.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: edrobbrit
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Although i didn't know anything about it when i played Dune2k i found it really addicting, on seeing 
 it was on PC as well, i thought it was my lucky day and got a copy to see if it really was all 
 i thought.
  
  Playing though the game you notice something. Its genuinely enthralling. I've never liked 'build 
 up a base kill all your enemy and start all over again somewhere similar' games due to the drag 
 factor in cheap attempts to extend playing time with start-from-scratch levels.
  
  You see, these games fall into the trap of either obscenely easy, enemy Armada's are blown over 
 like garden furniture in a gale, or are harder than trying to bite though a soviet tank. If you 
 spend an hour playing though a level just building your base and then find out, for example, all 
 you had to do was take one tank and run over the hoards of NPC baddies to get that soul destroying 
 "Mission Accomplished" message popping making you crack your knuckles to try desperately to replicate 
 a previous base. The flip side of this is a terrifying onslaught on your fledgling empire making 
 you hit QuickLoad whenever you see a ass-kicking round the corner and QuickSave whenever any doesn't 
 go completely ***s-up for you.
  
  Dune is a little of both, after all its testing. Obviously early levels train you in the art of 
 building units and vehicles while managing your wind power supply. While later levels, although 
 make frustration levels rise, give the game a certain state of mastery where strengths and weaknesses 
 of the units must be learnt in order that you may survive.
  
  The game isn't without flaws, for example the game leaves little ability to build walls and turret 
 at the city limits if they are too far from a building, the game can become formulaic and most 
 notably some houses are a lot better than others which means trying to play the game though with 
 all the houses an extreme challenge.
  
  In all a very good game that, in the age of 3rd gen consoles, holds its own as a marking point 
 of civilisation building sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Govvy
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Although this is simply a clone of Command & Conquer there is nothing wrong with the game. Well 
 it plays exactly the same, the units are based on C&C units, all the items and buildings have a 
 relationship to everything that is Command & Conquer. There is very little addition in the way 
 of gameplay, well in fact, there is no addition in the way of gameplay!
  
  The only true different thing has to be the cinematic's of which they have a selection of actors 
 playing the roles of whom? I am not sure where they wanted to go with the game, it seems far from 
 the books and all about the quest for Dune.
  
  Speaking of the cinematics, well Atredies was okay, but the Ordos is terrible, the guy that is 
 acting the part well he looks like a borg and plays the most boring of characters! At least there 
 is Brian Blessed on Atredies to keep me company.
  
  I do like playing know, but C&C was always a good game, so a copy of a good game just makes an 
 average game. There is nothing great or bad, it's just average and frankly that is boring! The 
 only element I like watching is a worm swallowing a tank or two.
  
  It is very hard to finish the game, I managed to complete the Harkonnen campaign but the other 
 two I didn't even finish. I just found the final missions far to hard.
  
  So the graphics are good, the music is fine, the terrain is the same and that makes it rather boring 
 also. I do like building up the base and sending massive armies to go kill the A. I. But to anyone 
 that reads this I will tell them to stick to the Dune novels and stick to the real Command & Conquer 
 series. No point in playing an adventure here, not worth wasting your time like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmallMafia
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  I used to own this game, ages and ages ago. Back then it was my only game so Ive payed it back 
 to front about a gazillion times. Well when its your only game you want to get your moneys worth.
 
  
  Developed by Westwood Studios; Dune 2000 takes you into the heart of Frank Herbets Dune lore but 
 in a strategy guise. In fact this game is actually a total remake of Dune 2, so if you've played 
 Dune 2 theres really not much else here for you. I mean - YES the graphics are better, and yes 
 there are some new features but the underlying story is pretty much the same. The emperor of the 
 galaxy has declared a 'contest' to all the factions in the world - ie just 3 - to conquer and rule 
 Dune and its all precious spice...*yawn*
  
  In Dune 2000 you get to play as one of 3 fations in the game: The Noble Atreides, The Evil Harkonen 
 and The Insidious Ordos. Each faction has their own special style of buildings, with the Atreides 
 having a concrete look, the Harkonen a black metal look and the Ordos a type of copper, these themes 
 also make themselves apparent on their respective units. Each faction also has their own special 
 unit, like the Fremen or Saboteurs. Plus each faction has their own set of missions and their own 
 arch enemy. At the beginning of the game you get to choose which faction you want to command, followed 
 by an animation of a topographical map of Dune showing all the territories controlled by each faction. 
 In this animation you also get told how well your faction chose their land, which is not propoganda 
 at all! Even if it really is crappy land.
  The first few missions in the game act as tutorials eventhough they are actually part of the campaigns. 
 Its actually quite an easy game to get to grips with quickly which is a nice thing at first but 
 after a few hours it become fantastically boring.
  
  Boredom comes from all aspects of the game, while the first few hours of game play are great, the 
 game quickly looses all 'must play' appeal. For example every faction works the same way - you 
 build a factory you get a tank, which looks like the same tank as the enemy's tank, and if you 
 dont build a factory - you're dead meat.
  All the units in the game look exactly the same despite playing as a different faction, all tanks 
 are square with just a different color design, and how do you know it belongs to the enemy? well 
 its been painted with a different color. The buildings themselves too are all just copies with 
 different color schemes, and you start to realise that there really is a great lack of originality 
 to this game.
  
  Game play too is all the same despite what faction you play. Its all about sheer numbers, the recipes 
 simple build enough tanks and trikes and you'll defeat the enemy, but the recipe to get the funds 
 for this is not simple. As you progress in the game the terrain gets flooded more and more with 
 sandworms which constantly each yor harvesters, relying on you spending more money building harvesters 
 and not an army, and when you do have harversters the enemy AI seems to have been programmed to 
 constantly pick them off, so in the beginning few hours of each mission you're constantly strapped 
 for cash. And once you do have cash the computer keeps telling you that you need to build more 
 silo's in order to bring in more funds and if you dont all that spice being delivered is going 
 to waste. Thats a stupid idea on the developers part - why would any one want to fill up their 
 base with a million silo's? I want turrent to defend my base! big mean turrets with shiny barrels! 
 You'll also begin to notice that the factions have not been developed fairly between one another, 
 you'll constantly find one faction being much stronger than the other 2 and when the AI plays as 
 that faction... uh run... just run!
  
  There is an option to play via internet connection with a friend but its so fiddly that you'll 
 give up trying and start playing skirmishes against the AI, which is incredibly hard.
  
  Eventhough there are a lot of weak points to this game it does have some fun to it, plus the sound 
 track has a few songs to keep you entertained, but in truth it could have used a lot more work 
 on the actual game play.
  If you're a fan of the Dune lore like I am then you may get something out of this game, but if 
 not; you're better off playing something else... like Red Alert.
  
  So really I do have one major top tip for you: unless you're a fan of Dune; there's really no point 
 in playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WizzyKid
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  The Good Stuff:
  - A nice update of a classic RTS.
  - Large tank battles can be fun.
  The Bad Stuff:
  - Dated graphics with little animation.
  - Unfair and unforgiving AI.
  - 
 Little in the way of stragety.
  - Little depth in gameplay.
  - Very bland, borring and dull maps.
  
  Back in 1992, Dune II revolutionized stragety games 
 forever. One of the first real time strategies, it allowed you to select multiple units and attack 
 with the click of a button. You would build buildings and place them within the radius of your 
 base, and harvest spice to gain money and build an large force to eliminate the opponent. Since 
 then, there have been many great games expanding on this formula such as Command and Conquer, Warcraft, 
 Starcraft and the most innovative real time stragety yet Total Annihilation. It has been over eight 
 years before a sequel to the hit classic has been made, but was it worthwhile? 
  
  Westwood has more of less made the same game, but with improved graphics and AI. The graphics are 
 certainly a big improvement, but are pretty weak by todays standards. All the maps in the game 
 look identical, with a different layout. There is a large quantity of maps, but thats probably 
 because all the developers needed to do was lay down a bunch of orange rock all over the place 
 with sand and spice mixed in-between. The levels are very uninteresting and are lacking in any 
 sense of atmosphere. The level design is generally poor and careless. You will be mostly wondering 
 flat orange and white lands with hardly anything to affect your stragety on the map, other than 
 to rush into the enemy's base. There are the few cliffs that make you a tad higher, but are generally 
 randomly scattered around the place. Each map might aswell of been made with a random map generator, 
 because that's how uninspired the maps are.
  
  Maps aside, the game looks pretty decent. The buildings look sharp with alot of detail in them, 
 tough they are mostly static. Each vehicle is distinguishable, but lack depth as most vehicle look 
 like they are the same height as each other. Some vehicles don't appear to have any turrets or 
 source for weaponry, which makes it look like rockets and shells are popping up mysteriously above 
 the vehicle. Aside from the eight directional movement, vehicles remain unanimated and nothing 
 more than static moving boxes on wheels. Most of the games affects are weak aswell, which makes 
 for unspectacular battles - save for a few explosions from airstrikes and buildings getting destroyed.
 
  
  If your looking for a really exciting, and innovative stragety game, then Dune 2000 will not cut 
 the cake for you. Dune 2000 is essentially Dune II, this includes the same houses with the same 
 units and buildings. The only real differences between the factions is slightly different building 
 skins and a few unique units. The factions share many of the same units and buildings which leads 
 to stale and predictable action. There isn't much stragety to the game other than to build as many 
 units as possible and charge at your enemy. Once you get to the heavier tanks, just keep on spamming 
 because they're not too expensive and can easily run over infantry since they all stand closely 
 together packed in squads of five. Aircraft is almost non existent in the game, apart from an airstrike 
 support power and carryalls which can move your units around the battlefield and bring in reinforcements. 
 Engineers are almost pointless, since most buildings can be destroyed in seconds. Your engineers 
 cost up to eight times more than basic infantry units and even cost more than some buildings. However, 
 when up against the computer, they like to send in an engineer or two with every attack squad and 
 take over your entire base.
  
  The AI is unforgiving in this game, even when using the easy difficultly, the AI can build units 
 much faster than you can. This is probably due to the fact that for some strange reason, you cannot 
 queue units. Instead, if you want an army of light infantry, you got to keep clicking the button 
 whilst managing your buildings and tanks. You also have to take into account you have to place 
 building on concrete, otherwise they loose health over time. This takes more time to build an additional 
 building, find an place you can build the concrete and then build the building you want. Should 
 one square of the building be off the concrete however, and that building will loose health. It 
 would also be much easier if your build radius wasn't very limited, coupled with the fact you have 
 very limited build space since you can't build on sand and it becomes a big annoyance. 
  
  Facing off against one AI opponent isn't too much of a problem, but more than one and it becomes 
 a frustrating nightmare. You will be getting waves from each AI opponent every opportunity they 
 have, and you will have engineers all over you along with their force to cruse your own units. 
 Because of the hassle it is to build buildings, it can take a long time to get base defenses, especially 
 considering you need to keep building power plants... er I mean wind traps (And the fact there 
 is enough wind on a completely deserted planet to power all thoose refineries and vehicle factories 
 is ludicrous) . Infantry is pretty useless. Although very cheap, they do little damage and have 
 a very short range and are easily crushed by the huge number of tanks you will likely be facing. 
 Should you try and attack the AI, they will most likely pummel your attack force with a ready force 
 of their own, all of course whilst pumping out units the moment they are available.
  
  There are so many features missing in Dune 2000 found in a typical RTS, despite the fact Westwood 
 themselves have incorporated such features in the past. There is no garrisoning units of any means, 
 not even APC's. There are no hotkeys to speak off, so everything must be done by hand. Because 
 their are no way-points, you have to micro-manage every single aspect of your units to make sure 
 they don't suddenly stop in the middle of an army doing nothing but getting obliterated. Infact, 
 you can't choose any stances for your units other than guard mode, which selected units will all 
 attack a threat within line of site, instead of them all sitting there only attacking when enemy 
 is within firing radius. There is one support power for each faction, but all of which barely reduce 
 a building to half it's health which makes using them almost pointless.
  
  The sound in the game is hardly anything remarkable either. Each automatic weapon uses similiar 
 washed out beats and rockets sound very unbelievable; it sounds like you dropped a tin cased selection 
 box. The music tries to mimic that of in the film, but uses similiar tones around a narrow pitch 
 that hardly raises the mood in atmosphere in anyway, other than to remind you that you are indeed 
 on the most deserted planet that could ever be found in a video game. The game even rips a monster 
 sound from the game Doom used for the worm, which was made seven years earlier. Does Westwood not 
 think that sound technology may of advanced onwards from then?
  
  If you were a fan of Dune II, and are looking for another great RTS game set in the Dune universe, 
 then don't bother looking here. The game can be fun, but dated graphics, bland map design and very 
 uninteresting combat really tone the game down. It's hard to think that in the era of Command and 
 Conquer, Starcraft and Total Annihilation, that Dune 2000 even exists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 80 % This Game is well made you get to choose a team and attack the other ones. Its all 
 about srategy fun and war. This Game is surprising there's allot of weapons and allot of different 
 ways to attack. This game as 10 thrilling missions that can change the way of playing a sci-fi 
 ga me.
  
  Graphics 75 % This game is not really about the graphics its more about the gameplay and storyline. 
 But this game has good graphics for a 1998 game im surprised.
  
  Sound 90 % The music is what makes the game even better and there's allot of action. It sounds 
 like a real war when you play it.
  
  Value This game is for every one i like allot of games and i got into this game pretty easily.
 
  
  I reccomend this game for everyone who likes games about strategy and that likes war.
  
  Written by :DGDFDGFBBYT :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Dune 2000 was a remake of the grand daddy of the RTS genre, Dune 2, its set in Frank Herberts famous 
 Dune universe which is set in the far future easiest way for me to describe it is, highly advanced 
 civilization (s) spread all over the galaxy with humans making up the bulk of the population within 
 the empire, with a feudal society, theres an emperor but he doesnt have absolute control - there 
 are nobles - Duke Atredies and the Harkonnen Baron for example being of the two great houses (and 
 for the game sakes theres a third the insidious Ordos) and the entire way of life is dependant 
 on a resource known as 'spice melange' which is only found on one world in the known universe - 
 Arrakis better known to us as Dune, which is also home to equally famous giant sandworms!
  Anyway the spice is what powers the ships to travel faster than light (i think its actually more 
 complicated than that relying on alien navigators but im just giving basic overview here of the 
 dune universe) and it enables people to live longer (and make their eyes turn blue) a valuable 
 fuel resource abit like oil to us.
  
  Anyway the emperor is worried that house atredies is getting too powerful and constitutes a long 
 term threat to his own power base because the atreides are making a elite fighting force to match 
 his own but aren't quite as numerous to pose a threat in the near future but it has him worried, 
 so he proposes to allow the Atredies to take over Dune so long as they can keep the spice trade 
 going and Atredies cant help but accept because after all this would mean they would be making 
 much money and increase further in power. However its a trick to allow Harokonnen to attack and 
 destroy them, in the game Dune 2000 its a little different the emperor proposes a challenge for 
 the houses to compete just so the supply of spice is maintained and the houses fighting each other 
 stops them from being a threat to the Emperor although he still wants to see Atreides stopped.
 
  
  The game is much like your typical RTS, theres the three factions with their own look and feel, 
 own units and supposedly unique strategies but you'll be forgiven for just thinking theyre samey.
 
  You have basic infantry types, engineers , light vehicles, heavy vehicles and a couple of unique 
 units to each faction - harokonnen has a long range missile and longer ranged artillery, atreides 
 has ability to call in air strikes and powerful sonic tanks and ordos has a saboteur which is invisible 
 infantryman that's well, a suicide bomber and they also have deviator longer range tank which takes 
 control of enemy vehicles for a while.
  
  The units function like a paper rock scissors system were light infantry can kill heavier infantry 
 such as rocket troops and engineers no problem but will in turn be destroyed by light vehicles, 
 heavy vehicles will have difficulty killing infantry with primary weapons unless they run them 
 over, special infantry like sardoukar and fremen will decimate any infantry, heavy tanks will destroy 
 light vehicles etc the only way to get round a paper rock scissors system is to have massive amounts 
 of troops/vehicles which means its just a numbers game or careful balanced armies.
  
  Its not particularly involving in terms of tactics because its real time you'll tend to group units 
 together and have them all attack the same enemy at once to quickly kill it and move onto the next 
 were as in turn based games you would delegate targets and have to plan more carefully, were the 
 strategy comes into most RTS's and this one is what you build and in what order you build and when 
 to decide to attack, in this sense its classic RTS game, and it can be quite fun at times but its 
 nothing original its all be done before even back in these days following on the successes of command 
 and conquer a whole host of copy cats came about.
  
  Some interesting points are also that you need to build foundations for buildings otherwise due 
 to the relatively harsh conditions on the desert planet arrakis you're buildings will decay and 
 eventually be destroyed were as with foundations they are secured, also as you progress throughout 
 the game there are some nonplayable subfactions which can give extra units for you dependant on 
 your faction these being the likes of the Fremen and sardaukar, furthermore theres wild life in 
 the form of the indgenous Sand Worms which get attracted to vibrations through the sand which means 
 they'll be attracted to heavy vehicles such as your spice harvesters and eat them.
  
  Thats the core gameplay, but it wouldn't be fair to comment on the single player campaign, its 
 pretty good, I like the dune universe its a blend of the past with the far future (a more sophisticated 
 universe than say warhammer 40k although it shares some similarities in that theyre both far in 
 the future yet rooted in the past - fundamentalist government , emperor figurehead, aristocracy 
 , distrust of some technologies very violent etc) and this game goes some way to reflect this although 
 it is much more about the action, the campaign is structured in such a way that you can select 
 a mission from the map and after a mission that territory will change colour to you're own chosen 
 faction and you can watch the progress of conquering the world and choose what to do next, each 
 mission is unfortunately quite similar in objectives, but out of the choices theres usually a difference 
 in the difficulty.
  
  Each mission will have a briefing and in classic westwood command and conquer style these are a 
 mixture of actors (some good some bad done in a deliberately cheesy way) and computer animations, 
 I prefer mission briefings to be like this, it helps bring the story to life and inject abit more 
 fun into the singleplayer campaign.
  As you proceed throughout the campaign the difficulty will obviously increase and you also get 
 access to better units and more advanced structures to build with a few missions requiring the 
 aid of the fremen or to destroy them and a showdown with the Emperor himself!
  
  The story is quite good (it is based on the dune universe afterall) and well explained to the player 
 throughout - the actors refer to you look at you which helps to engross the player in the game, 
 this is typical of westwood I find , an example of a fun yet incredibly weak story in regards to 
 a RTS would be the more recent Dawn of War games which likewise take very solid products which 
 have a wealth of ideas stories etc - this being the warhammer 40k universe yet deliver a fun RTS 
 in terms of skirmish and a lesser extent multiplayer yet the singleplayer campaign is sorely lacking.
 
  
  Graphically this game still looks quite good, its 2d graphics with small sprites representing troops 
 and vehicles, the terrain looks good its still sharp and vividly coloured - although the terrain 
 is exclusively desert like with some mountains and rocks jutting out from the sand so its fairly 
 basic , the units as I've mentioned are quite small and as a result cant be as detailed as one 
 would hope, the death animations are short but pretty neat as is typical of westwood the infantry 
 collapse/briefly explode with a little bit of gore here and there before disappearing.
  
  Soundwise, the music is pretty good it seems quite fitting for the Dune universe, some soft ambient 
 tracks with a steady beat to the more heavy rock like tunes for the militant Harokonnen the ordos 
 tracks are however the weakest - that faction in particular not belonging traditionally to the 
 Frank Herbert Dune universe but added to bring a little more variety to the games proceedings. 
 -the music overall is great its what you would expect from Frank Klepacki.
  The unit sounds are pretty decent, Fremen sound like Fremen from the movie shouting Bi La Kaifa! 
 and the harokonnen sounding very angry all the time and the orods sounding more like the professional 
 soldiers ala GDI from command and conquer.
  
  Overall id say Dune 2000 was a fun game if devoid of much originality, it was a faithful remake 
 of the original Dune 2 game which was its intention but because it was not original the gameplay 
 can feel stale and give you the 'its been done before' feeling, but it plays fine and gameplay 
 is fairly solid so i would recommend picking it up if you liked the original command and conquer 
 and want to play something fairly similar and to people who are a fan of the Dune universe but 
 only because its now at a budget price (albeit quite difficult to find sometimes even on ebay)
 
  
  Pros:
  .Solid RTS gameplay
  .Graphically still looks pretty decent
  .Story is quite good presented with actors/fmv
  .Music is great and sounds in general good
 
  .Campaign structure is quite good
  
  Cons:
  .Derivative gameplay whats original?
  .The factions play similarly so not much variation in strategy from one faction to the next - this 
 damages longevity
  .Too few units to build from, most are basic units shared by all other factions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  First off, once again, many gaming reviewers don't seem to think too highly about this game. What 
 they need to understand is that WESTWOOD STUDIOS was the original creators of todays RTS games. 
 Plus, this game WAS the original RTS and is what started the rest of the other RTS wannabes. Okay, 
 so it's a remake, at least they made this game for Windows Users rather than trying to get this 
 to work for DOS mode.
  
  Anyways, this is my all time fav game ever since the original. What's more interesting is that 
 the remake is much tougher than the original. Even though it's really a mock up of the Command 
 &amp; Conquer, this is still my fav that I like to play all the time.
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  Fantastic! The graphics are as good, if not better, than Command &amp; Conquer. The 
 video cinematics are very well detailed and they picked very good actors to play the parts. They 
 even explain what's expected for each map with clear detail. You will love how the graphics and 
 detail is mixed together. All the art work has been put to the limits
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  Controls couldn't be more simple. The game is all controlled with the use of a mouse. 
 Just about everything is either clicking a button or controlling a military vehicle or soldier. 
 Not much more to say on the controls. You can't get more simple than that.
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  This is an excellent game to get for a young one or someone who wants to learn about 
 RTS games such as War Craft, Command &amp; Conquer, Star Craft, Total Annihilation, and many others 
 that are being made.
  
  If you are interested, they did make this game for a console. This game came out for the Genesis 
 game system. Regardless if it's the DOS, Win 95/98 or the Genesis version, they all play very well 
 and you will love the ide of RTS games to come once you are done with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehrdad1987
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  this is a game about three groups: 1-Ordos 2-Atreides 3-Harkonen.
  i want to tell something about The power of these groups.
  1. Ordos: this power has the online 
 Information, with this power you can capture the enemy's units ( - soldiers) for some minutes. and 
 it's power tank's name is Daviator.
  2-Atreides: this power has the alies power, because the Fremen are their alies. The Fremen are Powerfull, they 
 can destroy everything.
  3-Harkonen: The Harkonens have Devastators, these tanks are Very Powerfull. they can destroy tanks 
 , soldiers , and Buildings. when they are injured they can explain there.
  Harkonen Has the Power Of :Power.
  Atreides Has the Power Of: Alies.
  Ordos Has the Power Of 
 :Informations.
  It was my first game at 1998, and its perfect because when you are playing this game you Will have 
 this feeling: Flying In The SKIES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Dune 2000 is a RTS game for the hardcore player, but also for the simple player who just wants 
 a good action strategy game.
  
  Dune 2000 does everything it can to keep you entertained, either playing as the Ordos, Harkonnen, 
 or the Atriedes. Each race is a little different, and each has their own ultimate weapon.
  
  The best feature of this game is the simplicity. It's really easy to play, whoever you are, 
 but yet gets challenging to a certain point.
  
  The in game videos are awesome. It's very sad that this was a thing of the past . Real-live in 
 game videos just add meaning to any game. Why did this have to go away?
  
  I played countless hours playing multiplayer. The game needs it's patch, otherwise it could be 
 proven a little buggy. Even then, there are still some issues.
  
  Overall, Dune 2000 is one of the greatest RTS games to come to the PC. It's simplicity, multiplaying, 
 and in-game videos add to it's hours upon hours of unique fun.
  
  Dune 2000 is NOT a remake. I have the Genesis game, and it only a little like it.
  
  This is 
 where the Dune gaming is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonytehtiger
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 1, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Dune 2000 is basically a remake of Dune 2. The graphics and sound are improved along with the controls 
 and AI.
  
  However the gameplay is pretty much the same. This is probably the main reason why reviewers are 
 giving it low scores, because it plays almost EXACTLY like Dune 2 so many years ago. Really, the 
 developers could have expanded on the RTS formula instead of just copying it. This is also why 
 i scored gameplay so low, because it is just rehashing an old game in a new package. Still, its 
 a fun game.
  
  Graphics: Back when I first got this game I was amazed at the graphics. They were smooth and detailed. 
 I don't remember how it would hold up to today's graphics, but for its time they were impressive.
 
  
  Sound: The music is well done. The unit responses are nothing spectacular, and the sounds are average.
 
  
  For some nostalgic fun, this is an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer_cop
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  The most beloved games of mine. It was fun, and beautiful in it's own way. A shame it's literally 
 dead now...
  
  It just have the word, nostalgic, attached to it. It was definatly the best RTS of all time. I 
 wish it was still alive today. Because it had a good story, and a good singleplayer experience. 
 But the multiplayer part was the best. Damn, me and my friends have had so many great hours playing 
 this, at our old IT course in the tuedays. Ah yes, i love you Dune 2000.
  
  Dune 2000, you are the best all time RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Dune 2000 is made by Westwood, the same developers of Command &amp; Conquer, so it plays exactly 
 the same (not that that's a bad thing because C&amp; C rules!) . It is apparently a remake of the 
 1992 original, Dune 2 which I never played because I that was the year I was born! Dune 2000 has 
 a long life-span because of it's skirmish, and there are 3 armies to choose from so there are 3 
 campaigns which is cool. I guess the worst thing about Dune 2000 are the graphics which were crappy 
 even when the game was released! Also, the maps all feel the same. But well done to Westwood with 
 the videos because like C&amp; C games, they are quality with real actors. Also, they have been 
 made to look like the film. So overall Dune 2000, though it feels like any other Westwood game, 
 deserves a higher score than Gamespot gave it in my opinion because it's got great gameplay and 
 give it a try if your looking for a simple 2D RTS. It's just a bit dull at times because the maps 
 all feel the same, but this is Dune we're talkin' about! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caladan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  People should not expect a brand new volume in a saga. Rather it is a luxury hardback edition of 
 the original paperback, which in time has somewhat lost it's glossy cover and probably a few of 
 its pages.
  
  The atmosphere resounds the old game, though the music is more rich the old tunes ring true. The 
 old drawings are replaced for ones that allow more detail and only add to the dirty, grainy and 
 sandy feel of the world.
  
  The biggest let down for those expecting a fresh version by an old recipe are only let down by 
 the mentats.
  
  All in all it is worth a buy if you miss the feel, the nostalgia, but can't stand the tedious time 
 it takes to get it to work on your machine. Then again, with vista around today we'll probably 
 need to beg for a new version once more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barcapuyol5
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The houses have very little difference from one to another and the super weapons are not that big 
 thing, but still because of the resemblance between each house is what makes this game difficult 
 in campaign missions.
  I also enjoy very much the skirmish mission and soe new changes about the spice (economy) might 
 just make it better.
  The worms are really good at this game, more mobility, comparing to the others from the past games.
 
  The only big problem you can get is the IA can become a little boring once you dominate the game 
 and it won't impress you with new tactics, but it's a problem most games from that time have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bambo_the_corn3
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing this game a LOOOONNNNGGGGGGG time ago with my dad for hours, and it was the funnest 
 thing to do in the house for some time (until I bought Halo, which my dad loves) so it really brings 
 back memories. But I just can't find another copy of this game anywhere else since I bought it in 
 a pack. Also, I was a kid (13) when I played it back in 1999. I mean, the graphics are decent for an 
 RTS, the sound is good, the gameplay is EXTREMELY addictive, and I just love it but that opinion might 
 change because it has been so long since I EVER played this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  There's this problem with games where the FMVs tend to be sixty times better than the actual game. 
 In the case of Dune 2000, this is very very true. (The only game so far that Ive played fully that 
 has managed to abolish that theory is RE4.) The graphics are worse than my cat's drawing skills 
 BUT considering when it was made, they are not that bad. In that day and age, the graphics of Dune 
 were only a bit worse than the original GTA's graphics. Put them side by side and you'll see that 
 really, for the years they were both made, they aren't really terrible.
  Dune 2000 is a fun, yet somewhat misleading, under rated game. Having been playing it for only 
 a few months, I've realised fully how hard it really is, and the way the game keeps pushing you 
 makes up for it's lack of modern day mint graphics. Admittedly, your group of trikes could be the 
 most lethargic bunch of idiots you could hope to find compared to the almighty AI of the enemy. 
 But proper tactics and extra carefully planned strategies can and generally will pay off (for example, 
 I was so desperate to finish this one particular level that I spent my whole day at school working 
 on a strategy (I had made a point of etching the map into my head) , and it worked) . Of course, 
 people who are all about today's games will dismiss this with a wave of their hand, but other veteran 
 gamers will find this enjoyable until the last level (which I haven't actually got onto yet-the 
 game's rock solid and I still haven't given up) . 
  A game that should not be left to rot on Gamestation's shelves (or wherever you get your games 
 from) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian8
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  this game in general is fairly good and i could've however lived with out it, but at the time i 
 got it (which was long ago) it was potentualy awsome.
  
  the graphics suck but what are you going to do with a game called dune 2000 when 2000 is in the 
 future compared to when it was made and released.
  
  what can you say about the gameplay. it has the typical strategy game setup and it did well with 
 it. however it did miss things from Age of Empire games that could have saved it.
  
  the sound on the game is well crap meaning the graphical sounds. but the music was great and had 
 a nice selection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  Dune 2000 is a nice game thats a clone of the C&C games.
  Here are the good and bad points.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is good, with the look of C&C Tiberian 
 Sun the game looks good.
  Lots of vehicles and buildings you can create.
  Skirmish, which is always good.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics look a bit oldish, but still average 
 for such an old game.
  
  Sounds:
  I love the music of the game, it brings the atmosphere of the game.
  Sounds are a bit average, 
 but not bad.
  
  Online:
  Skirmish, which is good (against AI)
  
  Value:
  There is skirmish, which is really nice.
  
  Variety:
  Enough vehicles and units, enough maps.
 
  Large campaign.
  
  Well Dune 2000 is a good game.
  cya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenton
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  So dune 2000. It plays exactly like C&C red alert. its pretty much the same game with a frank herbert 
 skin. But thats a good thing. If given a choice i would play this before i would play redalert. 
 It provides more varied units and buildings. Instead of 2 semi-diffrent nations there are 3 semi-diffrent 
 nations. This adds alot more fun to the gameplay. The game is also xp friendly, redalert is a windows 
 xp nightmare. The main problems with the game are pretty much genre problems, or atleast comand 
 and conquer problems. They lack the balance of a game such as say starcraft. And multiplay requires 
 westwoods terrible online service. This game is a better buy than Redalert 1and c&c 1. Starcraft, 
 redalert2, and Teberium sun. This game is suprisingly cheap and included in the New Westwood first 
 decade compolation pack for around 35 dollars. You cant beat that.
  Disclaimer- this games production values are lower than courtney loves reputation. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
