-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dunes of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/panzereliteactiondunesofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Quick pace and lots of stuff to shoot.
 Good music and great bombastic battle sound effects.
 Serviceable, yet still atmospheric, visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Relentless shooting and repetitiveness soon get the better of you.
 Pretty short.
 Nobody playing the multiplayer game online.
 Some audio loops that lead to lockups.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 5.8, 6.8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 72 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Dreamcatcher
Developer: ZootFly
Genre: Tank Sim
Date:     Apr 24, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This arcade tank shooter delivers lots of explosions, but proves that you can have too much of a 
 good thing even when you're blowing stuff up. 

  A sandy sequel to last year's First Battalion, arcade tank shooter Dunes of War is one of those 
 action games that's as forgettable as breakfast. Its routine, shoot-everything-that-moves gameplay 
 gets you going and keeps you going for the six hours or so you roll around the desert sands of 
 WWII blasting Panzers, Shermans, and assorted troops, trucks, and antitank guns, but you won't 
 remember anything about it a few hours after taking it off your hard drive. Even though the action 
 is agreeably fast paced and everything blows up real good, this is a short, by-the-numbers shooter 
 that alternately gets the adrenaline going and gets a little mind-numbing at times.  

          All kabooms, all the time.     

  Developer ZootFly is unabashedly retro with its approach 
 to designing these tank games. Like its 2006 predecessor, Dunes of War resembles an old-time console 
 actioner, with the only difference between it and the usual third-person shoot-'em-up being the 
 fact that you're driving a tank instead of the stereotypical supercommando with a bunch of big 
 guns and an attitude. Even being in command of a heavy armored vehicle doesn't change things much, 
 as the tanks that you command handle about as nimbly as said soldier, or a car in an arcade driving 
 game. That's not a big deal, though, as the focus is on action, not accurately depicting how a 
 Panzer II tank handled in the dusty terrain of Egypt.  

  Levels reflect this straightforward design philosophy as well. The six missions in the game's two 
 German and Allied campaigns are simplistic affairs where you race from point A to point B destroying 
 everything you see and occasionally pulling alongside auto-repairing garages and armories to heal 
 up and reload on shells. At first, this is all pretty captivating. Waves of enemy tanks and troops 
 attack you constantly. Loads of antitank guns flank every route forward. Planes soar past and carpet 
 the desert floor with bombs. Challenge is there, too. The difficulty is high even on the easy setting, 
 as you need to balance the need to always keep moving ahead with caution over going too far and 
 winding up surrounded by hostile armor. Most of the time you've got to choose between slowing down 
 and maybe getting shredded by gun emplacements and speeding up to hit advancing tanks head-on. 

  But even such intensity can get tedious. Missions drag on for upward of an hour or more apiece, 
 and there is no real variety in your actions and objectives. Crest a hill and get ready for yet 
 another enemy armored column. Approach a hill and prepare to take out yet another line of a dozen 
 or so antitank guns. Cruise into a village and gun down yet another succession of machine gun nests 
 and sitting duck trucks. Sit back and hold the line against yet another enemy counterattack. Are 
 you yawning yet?  

  You occasionally get tossed a curveball like a convoy escort or sinking ships in a port, but generally 
 Dunes of War hits you with the same enemies and goals ad nauseam. So for the first 20 or 30 minutes 
 of each level, you have a blast just roaring through the Egyptian shooting galleries. Beyond that, 
 you have to push yourself to keep playing, as you're worn down by the constant repetition. There 
 is never any sense of building toward a climax, either. ZootFly just piles one ambush atop of another 
 in each mission before bringing things to a close with an assault on a town or some sort of base 
 that is virtually identical to the towns and bases you've already blitzed a half-dozen times in 
 the preceding half hour or so.  

  You're stuck with the campaigns, too. Even though the game has a multiplayer feature with conquest 
 and capture the flag modes of play, either it doesn't work right out of the box or absolutely nobody 
 is playing online. At any rate, numerous attempts to hook up with other players for a match online 
 were unsuccessful, as the server was always deserted. Multiplayer is supported via LAN as well, 
 though, so you can go up against other human tank commanders in the privacy of your own home if 
 so inclined.  

  Look and sound range from serviceable to pretty good. Vehicles and buildings are nicely destructible, 
 but the terrain is dominated by scrubby desert and generic Arabian architecture. Explosion and 
 smoke effects look great, at least, and some missions have loads of atmosphere, like the El Alamein 
 one that takes place under a bright desert moon. Only the motion blur effect is a problem, as it's 
 so overdone that it's really more of a motion sickness blur. Thankfully, you can turn it off.  
 

          It's a magical night for a moon dance.     

  Sound is quite impressive. The musical score has a nifty Middle Eastern beat and is accompanied 
 by evocative ululations similar to the Muslim call to prayer. Soldiers under your command repeat 
 mundane battle commentary like "Goodbye!" and "Pow, right in the kisser!" far too often (many lines 
 seem to have been recycled from the original First Battalion) , although sprinkled-in random comments 
 give the troops personality. Every now and again you'll get an interesting segue apropos of nothing, 
 like one German conversation about ancient ruins left in Northern Africa by the Carthaginians. 
 Battle sound effects are also great, although it seems as if they can overload the game and cause 
 sound loops; get too many machine guns firing in heated battles and the game occasionally does 
 a staccato seizure and locks up.  

  In limited doses, Dunes of War can be a mildly entertaining shooter. So if you're looking for an 
 WWII action game to haul out for half hour stretches every now and again, you could do a lot worse. 
 Unfortunately, the repetition that takes over after the initial thrill fades means that you could 
 also do a fair bit better.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: supervega9000
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 4, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  No doubt that Dunes of war is like first battalion (or call it panzer elite action whatever) the 
 best tank game so far.
  It just feels like war .
  only the major disappointment that somehow the developers made so fantastic maps and tanks but 
 yet we can't use most of them !!!
  in single player mode Al Alamian battle is not there but it exists in multiplayer!!!! in multiplayer 
 mode still the same old tanks that we all got bored from .
  i see so many tank models in single player but they're not in multiplayer mode like 
 
  more tanks with more choices , there could have been an option to choose either Tiger or Kingtiger 
 under the heavy tank section and so on.
  Also the missions in single player mode are too short 3 axis missions and 3 allied missions .
 
  Sadly the developers spent so much time making this good game but looks like they don't want us 
 to enjoy it to the most.
  What i noticed also in first axis single mission that the briefing tells you that your tank you're 
 about to play with is panzer II but suddenly i found my self using a panzer III , someone was not 
 paying attention!!!
  But still it's a very good game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flaviomk
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 30, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  Its a arcade style game and you have to kill a thousand of tanks and the most of time you will 
 have to do it alone cause your team mate tanks will be easly destroyed by enemy tanks. it means 
 all you have to win a war is a tank!! if you are looking for a realist tank simulator game its 
 not the way. The graphics and some effects like wheels and suspension system are good... but its 
 still a arcade game.. = ( . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal6666
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 5, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Despite what everybody thinks and lots of negative review the panzer elite action games are really 
 fun to play and showcase tank war in a different way then we are used too.
  
  The idea behind the game is that you play as a tank but from a third person perspective. Most tank 
 game i have played are rts and you can only zoom so much to the tank.. there is no real interaction 
 with the tank.
  
  Panzer Elite changes that as you become the tank and set out to shoot targets in front of you and 
 accomplish mission much like a third person shooter.
  
  I guess people say that it lacks realism probably because of this way to play the game but i truly 
 absolutely love it. Also people probably felt that it would be a real tank sim and it is not.
 
  
  You have to shoot target real far and you have to postition your tank and take into account the 
 ballistics of the round you are shooting to hit your targets.
  
  All of this is done in full 3d and not at a 45% view that 90% tank games i know of.
  
  What 
 is fun is that elements are destructible.. you can blow stuff up. You can make building crumble 
 with a few well placed shells.
  
  The original game is fairly long and full of fun missions to do.
  
  If you want something different 
 in a tank game you owe it to yourself to at least try the panzer alite demos that are out there 
 on the net.
  
  Awesome game. A change of pace for the tank lover in you.
  
  The reviewer complains that it is repetitive, well frankly there is not much you can do with a 
 tank but to ride in fields and shoot stuff....
  
  its' not like a first person shooter where you get the change of pace by going inside buildings 
 where it changes the scenery of the game.
  
  Dunes of war adds to the original fun and is the same but in different locations.
  
  The reviewer 
 hates the game obviously and the genre and the game should have been reviewed at least by another 
 person before his comments went on the site but for myself have yet to see a tank sim that is not 
 complicated and enjoyable....
  
  First battalion and dune of wars delivers tank gaming the way i like it! At least try the demos 
 and see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PET_
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  Wehen I saw the game I sayd... WOW A WW2 tank game! I remember the Call Of Duty tank missions witch 
 weare very very nice, but this game is an arcade one. You fire a bullet per seccond, I havn't noticed 
 if it mathers where you get hit. Also if you want to kill something you must do it fast, other 
 wise the other thanks will do it. On normal dificulty you hit a tank 1-2 times and it's gone. Also 
 even the menu of the game seems very unproffesional. I hope that on the next game they will improve 
 also the graphics but most improtant the game engine to do it more realitic. Totaly dissapointed 
 about this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
