-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dungeon Siege II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/dungeonsiege2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Skill system gives more control over character development.
 Detailed and immersive environments.
 Great sound effects and music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game lacks challenge and depth.
 Combat gets repetitive.
 Item collection feels unnecessary after awhile.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 12, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.1, 64 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 5,149 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Gas Powered Games
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 16, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dungeon Siege II is a solid effort that manages to improve on the first game to deliver a lengthy, 
 combat-heavy dungeon hack that will certainly please fans of the genre. 

  When Dungeon Siege came out in early 2002, it was praised for having amazing graphics and a fast-paced, 
 accessible combat system. However, for a role-playing game it was a bit shallow in terms of character 
 development and story. Also, the game lacked the challenge to appeal to veterans of the point-and-click 
 dungeon crawler. Developer Gas Powered Games took the criticism to heart, and set out to fine-tune 
 the gameplay, as well as make the game a bit more challenging and involved for experienced players. 
 The result is Dungeon Siege II, a solid effort that manages to improve on the first game to deliver 
 a lengthy, combat-heavy dungeon hack that will certainly please fans of the genre.  

          Dungeon Siege II is all about killing hordes of evil monsters and collecting tons of loot. 
     

  Dungeon Siege II plays pretty much like your average action RPG, except instead of controlling 
 a single character, you control a party of up to six characters. Don't get too excited though, 
 as it takes a lot of work to get six characters in your party. You start the game with the ability 
 to create a two-person party, but you can buy extra "slots" from an innkeeper to increase the size 
 of your group. On your first run through the game, you can have a maximum of four characters in 
 battle at a time. By the time you start on your third run through the story, you're finally able 
 to get that sixth party member. It's a bit of a chore, though, since the story takes between 40 
 and 60 hours to complete. There are only a handful of characters in the game that you can recruit 
 to join your party, but you can also purchase pets in any of the three major towns. The pets can 
 be fed items to increase their maturity and to make them stronger. There are more than half a dozen 
 different kinds of pets, including pack mules, lap dragons, and elementals. They aren't as immediately 
 effective as human characters, but pets can be useful as a kind of living garbage disposal, since 
 they'll gladly eat any extra items you might have.  

  Once you have your party assembled, you're ready for combat. You only directly control one character 
 at a time, but you can give your party orders with a quick press of a button. For example, you 
 can tap the F key to put your party into mirror mode, which will make them mimic your main character. 
 Or, you can put your party into rampage mode and they'll kill anything that moves. It's easy to 
 switch characters on the fly as well. You can hit the F2 key to take control of your mage and fire 
 off a quick healing spell, or you can press F3 to switch to your fighter and go pound on some enemies 
 for awhile. You can also set magic spells to auto-cast, which can be handy. It's easy to set up 
 the artificial intelligence-controlled characters to be self-sufficient enough that you don't have 
 to do anything but tell them where to go. In fact, if you have healing spells set to auto-cast, 
 your mages can easily heal your party faster than enemies can inflict damage, so the only thing 
 you have to do to stay alive is keep your mages' mana up.  

  Unlike the first game in the series, Dungeon Siege II gives you complete control over how the characters 
 in your party develop by letting you allocate skill points to make your characters more specialized. 
 There are four classes in the game: ranger, fighter, combat mage, and nature mage. You choose your 
 class by simply using the character in a certain way. A character that uses primarily physical 
 attacks will level up in melee skill and will effectively become a fighter. Any character can learn 
 the skills of any class, but if you try to make a jack-of-all-trades-type of character, it'll end 
 up being fairly weak and useless. It's best to choose a class early on and spend all of your skill 
 points on the skills that pertain to that specific class. The skill tree for each class contains 
 12 different skills, but some of the more-advanced skills require you to reach a certain level 
 with some of the more basic ones first. For example, if you want to learn the deadly strike skill -- which 
 increases the damage of a critical hit -- you have to have a level-36 melee skill and a level-one 
 critical strike skill. The skills system does help to make the character development feel more 
 dynamic than in the first Dungeon Siege game, but some of the skills are fairly useless, so you're 
 better off just focusing on a few of the more-versatile ones.  

          The combat is simple and easy, but it's satisfying for awhile.     

  In addition to 
 skills, you can now learn special powers based on how you decide to develop your characters. A 
 fighter can learn the brutal attack power, which, when activated will make his or her next strike 
 about 20 times more powerful than a regular attack. These special powers are set to the 1 through 
 4 keys, so it's easy to activate any of your characters' powers in the midst of combat. You'll 
 be using these powers often, because they're extremely powerful and will let you take out a group 
 of half a dozen enemies in a single blow. The only penalty for using these powers is that once 
 used, you can't use the power again until it recharges, but that usually takes less than a minute. 

  Combat in Dungeon Siege II is about as simple as they come, but it can be pretty satisfying for 
 awhile. You simply right-click on an enemy you want to attack, and if you hold the button you'll 
 keep attacking the enemy until it dies. If you take too much damage, you'll get knocked unconscious, 
 but as long as one of your characters is still coherent you can continue fighting. Eventually an 
 unconscious character will wake up and be ready to fight again. However, if a character takes too 
 much damage while unconscious, he or she will die.     

  As you fight, enemies will drop all kinds of loot for you to pick up -- too much loot in fact. You'll 
 find so much gold, armor, weapons, and spells that the notion of collecting items becomes almost 
 trivial. Luckily there are teleporters located throughout the world so you can simply teleport 
 back to town, sell off everything you don't want, and teleport back to continue your quest. Toward 
 the end of the game the only use you'll have for all the items you get is to sell them for gold, 
 but gold is useless since store-bought items are a lot weaker than the items you get from enemies. 
 You can spend gold to enchant weapons and armor, but that isn't necessary since your characters 
 will overpower enemies even when using mediocre equipment.  

          The pack mule isn't necessary anymore, since you can just teleport back to town to sell 
 your loot.     

  For those who enjoy simple, automated combat, there's plenty of it here. There are often dozens 
 of enemies onscreen at a time. Actually, sometimes there's too much going on and it gets difficult 
 to tell which characters are allies and which ones are enemies. The combat in Dungeon Siege II 
 doesn't require any sort of skill or strategy, but there's still something to be said for tearing 
 through mobs of undead soldiers and leaving piles of bloody corpses in your wake. Unfortunately, 
 cutting down evildoers gets stale after a while, since enemies don't really become more challenging 
 as you progress through the story; they just have more hit points so they take a bit longer to 
 kill. There are a few cool boss fights in the game, but even those can get dull at times. There's 
 one particular battle with a dark mage who has about 90,000 hit points but can barely inflict any 
 damage on your party. Essentially, you just end up hacking away for a few minutes while the mage 
 stands there casting useless spells. To make things even easier, you can consult your journal for 
 step-by-step instructions on how to complete each quest. If you're too lazy for that though, there's 
 a small map in the corner of your screen that has a little arrow to direct you to where you need 
 to go. There are multiple difficulty settings, but unfortunately you can't access them until after 
 you beat the game on the easiest setting.  

  To make things slightly more interesting, you can play through the story cooperatively with a friend 
 via LAN or online play. You can import a party from your single-player campaign, but when you start 
 a multiplayer game you have to start at the beginning of the story, which isn't much fun if you 
 already know all the ins and outs of every quest. Although you can use parties in multiplayer, 
 each player can only use a few characters, so there are never more than six allies in the game 
 at a time.  

  Dungeon Siege II does a good job with its setting and maintaining the fantasy atmosphere. The environments 
 are detailed, and although some of the textures look a bit blurry and faded, the assorted areas 
 are varied enough to be interesting while still feeling like they belong in a cohesive fantasy 
 universe. From shadowy forests to dark dungeons and barren deserts, it all looks natural, even 
 down to the enemies and interactive objects that appear in each area. The character animations 
 are a bit awkward, but the characters themselves are high quality, and all the equipment is represented 
 cosmetically. The spell effects are hit or miss. Some of the status effects add a nice glow to 
 your characters, but the elemental spells look rather weak.  

          You can import a party into an online multiplayer game and play through the story cooperatively 
 with a friend.     

  In addition to the scenery, the sound goes a long way in enhancing the atmosphere in Dungeon Siege 
 II. The fully orchestrated soundtrack from Jeremy Soule helps set the mood for each area, whether 
 you're exploring a dungeon or just chatting with people in town. The sound effects are consistently 
 enjoyable as well, and although you hear battle noise almost constantly in the game, it manages 
 to avoid sounding canned. The only weak spot in the sound is the voice work. Just about all of 
 the characters in the game have speaking lines, and although a few characters are done well, most 
 of the acting is pretty bad. To give the voice actors credit, though, they didn't have the best 
 dialogue to work with.  

  Dungeon Siege II is a solid game with plenty to keep you busy for hours. The biggest problem is 
 that the game is just too easy, and even though there are increased difficulty settings, you have 
 to put in a good 40 hours just to unlock the veteran setting, and another 40 hours to reach elite. 
 Unfortunately, the story and gameplay really aren't deep enough to warrant that many trips through 
 the game. But, there haven't been a lot of good dungeon crawlers lately, and Dungeon Siege II does 
 a respectable job of filling that void.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (180 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: killer978452
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:35 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege 2 has everything you would like in a RPG. It is a very long single player witch would 
 last at least 40 hours. It has tons of quests and has 3 difficulties. You can only play each difficulty 
 if you have beaten the one previous to it. What is cool about this is that you are continuing your 
 character he/she is exactly the way they were when you played the last difficulty. Another thing 
 is the item collection, there are literally thousands of different items. I have been playing for 
 quite some time and I am still finding items I've never seen before.
  
  The game play is actually quite good. There are 4 different classes: Ranged, Melee, Combat Magic, 
 and Nature Magic. The ranged class contains weapons like bows, crossbows, throwing knives, etc. 
 The melee are swords, axes clubs, daggers, etc. The Magic classes are similar in the way that they 
 function the same way: You have a mana bar and each spell is a different type and costs a different 
 amount of mana. The only big difference is that the Combat uses spells like fire and lightning, 
 where the Nature uses ice or water. There are actually quite a bit of spells ranging from embers 
 or death to rocks being thrown and ice freezing enemies. There are a lot of skills in this game 
 like strength, intelligence , and dexterity. The hard part is that each item has some sort of special 
 effect that boosts these skills. They can also boost you armor, health, mana, chances to find magical 
 items, max damage, min damage, and much more.
  
  The storyline is descent in the way that there is a plot and a fairly good story being told. Basically 
 there is this guy who got ultimate power by obtaining this special sword. You have to find the 
 4 pieces of some sort of shield (only thing that can stop him) and bring it to these special people 
 who can reforge it. In this huge period of time while you are doing this you will fight thousands 
 of enemies and hundreds of species.
  
  Overall this is an awesome game that will last a very long time. Even when you've beaten it there 
 are still thousands of things to do. You might want to complete all of the side missions? Or level 
 you character to level 100 in every category (that will take a very long time) ? Whatever it may 
 be you will enjoy this game whether you like RPGs or games in general, this is a great game. TWO 
 THUMBS UP!! I'm giving it a 9.0. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorlau
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This game was sitting on my bookshelf for a number of years. I finally found some time to give 
 it another try. First of all, this game has really nice graphics. However, trees and buildings 
 often obstruct your view. The conversation text is tiny and is hard on the eyes. The plot is almost 
 non-existent. Most of the quests are simply to search and retrieve an item. On a more positive 
 note, there are lots of random dropped weapons and armor. The leveling up of the characters works 
 well. Overall, this game resembles Diablo, which was a great game when it first came out. Many 
 years later, these types of games just seem pointless. After about 15 hours and completing 50% 
 of Act I (of III) I am uninstalling the game and donating it to charity/library. I just don't have 
 time to waste on boring games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retrofix
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I really like the original Dungeon Siege back in the day when it first hit the scene. While some 
 of it was a little monotonous, it kept me entertained for the most part enough to play the game 
 through the end. Flash forward to 2009 and while the DS2 is almost 4 years old I thought I'd give 
 it a shot. Good games stand the test of time right?
  
  No Sir, I don't like it. It's not that it's a bad game, I think a first timer to hack and slash 
 games would like it. But for an older gamer like myself, it's not happening.
  
  First, the graphics seem dated, looks like DX7 tech. At 1600x1200 the game looks much better and 
 the textures don't seem so washed out but now the text is so small it is a pain to try to read. 
 Graphics don't make the game, but it's hurting it here.
  
  The story is blah-blah-blah, just want to click through. 
  
  Now the worst part is the game 
 is way to linear, one path that's it. Zap bad guys till you hit the next check point, rinse and 
 repeat. Combat is lame, just hold your mouse down till your enemy fall. If your hurting, fall back 
 and heal yourself, the enemy will turn and go back to where they were.
  
  Maybe it was better a few years ago when it came out, or maybe I'm just jaded.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coco_nutz18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  indeed diablo made a great impact on the rpg scale even up to today.
  
  almost all of the rpg games has made diablo as it's point of reference, including this game.
 
  
  i could almost say that diablo is the golden age of action rpg.
  
  as for this game, as i was saying (repeatedly) its a diablo-type rpg. it has some improvements 
 though, a diablo game in 3d, imagine that. its more exiciting as you have you're RIGHT of choosing 
 the angle of you camera.
  
  quest and side quest is there, variety of skills and weapons and of course the leveling up which 
 should always be there since it's one of the most exciting feature in an action rpg.
  
  just like diablo, once you've done all the quest (finished the game, technically)
  you can still 
 play your saved character roaming around anywhere you want, and exploring things you never encountered 
 while doing some quest.
  
  for beginners (hey, no offense meant, dude) try a melee character and concentrate on acquiring 
 a life-steal weapon/buff/skill.
  
  if you've got nothin' on your mind right now, go on and try this one.
  
  keep in mind, a game, 
 no matte how good or bad it is, is always a masterpiece. =   
::::::

::::::
UserName: hpate007
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Overall okay grows on you not the same as the first but okay. Like a lot of the new features but 
 environment of first was better. If they would have left the environment and player views the same 
 as first it would have been a 10 but thus I only rate it a 9 pretty good though. I would be good 
 to have a third down the road. There is a lot that can be approved upon especially the map it would 
 have a detailed map other than the mini map. I need a hundred words so I write this sentence and 
 all of these caracters to allow me to submit it a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dallercoder
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2009 6:18 am PT
Review:  Anyone who is a dungeon siege 1 fan is sure to pick up Dungeon Siege 2. I have the deluxe edition 
 but I want to review the expansion pack separately, because I have not played Broken World. You 
 create a hero. You can be a human, elf, dryad or a half giant. These races have different skills 
 in combat, but I am going to skip this part and talk about the story. You and your elven friend 
 Drevin are soldiers to Valdis, a brutal marauder . But soon after, you are captured by Dryads, 
 but they will let you free if you complete a series of tasks for them. It is better to explore 
 with other NPC's for backup. On easy difficulty you can have 4 people in your party, medium you 
 can 5 and hard you can have 6. pretty lame isn't it? In the first game you could have 8 on all 
 difficulty levels.
  But that's not the problem, the problem is that it is intense in some areas! On easy difficulty! 
 I would understand if it was on medium but it is hard on easy difficulty! That's enough of me whining, 
 the good thing is that the cut scenes are beautiful, it's like watching a movie on your computer. 
 Plus, you have powerups, which will kill weaker enemies in one hit, Dungeon Siege 2 has advanced 
 much more than it's big brother.
  Gameplay 8/10
  Sound 9/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Difficulty 4/10 (including the Ganth fight, can somebody defeat him?) Horrible difficulty but it 
 is still a great game to play! 
  Duration 10/10. What an excellent game. 9.5 out of 10. Buy it now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkind2me
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  well where it starts off AS ur character is in a morden boot camp (enemy) and ur goin through the 
 level learning the basics and ur best frend drevin gives u this amulet that is very speacial and 
 well there u are goin therough the level and u come 2 the end where ur soppust retrieve this artifact 
 and well there was this leader called veldin who was suppost give u each money for helping him 
 retreive the artifact but then ends up killing ur best frend drevin and knocking u out then u wake 
 up in this prison with the (good) guys caause u where working for the bad guys but then u get owned 
 by the leader soo ur dont like them anymore.2 the point ur captured in this prison and the jail 
 gaurd has a good feeling bout u and then lets u kinda free but with less privledges and a quest 
 to set out and frre these good guys that are in prisoned by the dreadful morden anyways yer u go 
 through a couple of quests and u finnally get free frm all and u leave this part of the story cause 
 there are 3 parts in the story act 1,2,3. i wont spoil 2 much soo i wont say further bout the story. 
 
  
  the online multiplayer is pretty average just ur noraml stuff u can do lan sessions and do quests 
 with ur frends andu can play pvp.
  
  the graphics are pretty average aswell but pretty good. 
  
  well this is the end of my reveiw 
 and i hoped u enjoyed reading as much as i where writing it have a good day and comment plzz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Procrastin
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  This game is very similar to the Diablo series of games in that you use your mouse to move the 
 characters, attack etc. I found that the gameplay was quite good and very intuitive. I especially 
 liked that the mini-map would have an arrow pointing you towards your goal. I know it's a bit of 
 a cop-out for an RPG to have such an arrow, but I often can't play my game for several days at 
 a time, and a reminder of where I'm supposed to be going is well appreciated
  
  I'd say that the main downside of the game are the camera angle control, as you often have to keep 
 adjusting it in the middle of a battle.
  
  The sound and graphics are pretty middle of the road and even though the game is now several years 
 old I still found it good to play.
  
  And since gamespot is not allowing me to submit a review which is only 743 characters, I'm still 
 typing here. Great job GS,, sheeesh! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbishop
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  Action packed rpg which sucked me in from the very start with non-stop thrills. Voice acting is 
 top notch with plenty of funny moments as wisecracks fly usually in your direction. Races are done 
 well with each feeling just as they should. Graphics are excellent adding alot of visual fireworks 
 flair with spells, swordplay, landscape damage etc while immersing you in the game world and your 
 character. Sound is top notch and one of the best in any game. The same goes for the buetiful epic 
 music. 
  
  Amazing variety in monsters and enemies keeping this long game exciting to the end. Have not had 
 this much fun since the old days in the 1990s when rpgs were chockful of different enemy types 
 one would encounter as a visual reward of sorts for surviving so long. Loot is plentiful along 
 with different weapons and armor which will fill you with the urge to yell out I AM THE GREAT ANNIHILATOR! 
 TREMBLE IN AWE AND DESPAIR! as you send your sword crashing down on an enemy's skull.
  
  For a rpg which came out in 2005 it holds up very well and will play flawlessly with all graphic 
 settings maxed out on any pc built within the last two years.
  
  Replay value is good with an interesting difficulty unlocking method where you have to finish the 
 game at a previous easier level before playing on a harder level.
  Interface is very intuitive and the ingame tutorials are well done.
  
  If your looking for 
 something tried and true you cant miss with this Dungeon Siege 2. For shame on those who snub their 
 noses at it as only hack n slash when their own favorites such as Oblivion and Neverwinter Nights 
 are of the same ilk. In the end its all about fun and their is plenty to be had here in a very 
 complete package which wont have you feeling like something is missing somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hinsides5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Though i've not completed the first "chapter/part" of the game but here are my reactions.
  
  Customization:
  Much to variate about IMO. you start choosing a race and you can choose about 
 different starting looks. Armour/weapons is more than enough to choose about, but i find many of 
 the weapons look alike, at least magic items is glowing. Which makes some more impression to the 
 look.
  The areas do look good, but not the best i've seen to date.
  
  Gameplay:
  The same as always. click to attack (or hack and slash as we call it) Even that simple you won't 
 get very fast tired of it. the skills are just cool. crush your enemies with some certain skills 
 and their DEAD. Recharging of melee skills are as simple as you need to fight for recharging.
 
  
  Not much to complain with. they are responsive and shouldn't be a problem "H" for Health potions 
 and "M" for Mana potions. though one thing can be frustrating with the controls. this is the egdes 
 of the screens which turns the camera. or else use the "f" buttons to change party members without 
 clicking their pictures.
  and also click to move. no prob'.
  
  Overall:
  A very good game that i really recommend for you. i never played online so i can't tell anything 
 from that.
  It's also not very expensive to date.
  
  Thanks for reading, Hinsides5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamefreak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege 2 is simply one of the games that are highly addicting it has great replay value 
 and I consider it a great game it so many quests and secrets and items and enemies and many classes 
 wich all combine to make it a great game finishing the game does not mean it should not be replayed 
 im sure many players have replayed it after finishing it and they must have had as much fun as 
 they had when they firs played it sure the game has many problems with graphics and the like but 
 still in its time its graphics performance was not bad anyway the game is fun with great game play 
 and great replay value wich makes it a great rpg and should really be played and replayed a lot 
 my say is that the game is fun the multiplayer is fun and it is simply one of the best Role playing 
 games I have played yet and im sure that Dungeon Siege 3 will be even greater than it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoldaire
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  The Dungeon Siege series has always been know for it's massive enemies and it's Diablo like customization 
 for characters. You can make any character learn any skill by just enough training in it. In Dungeon 
 Siege 2, you start of as a veteran mercenary in the army of Valdis, the big bag guy who is trying 
 to make the world fall under his mighty power by using the Sword of Zaramoth. Your job at first 
 is simple. You start out as the mercenary, trying to make a living for yourself by following the 
 orders of the Morden, the army which is under the command of Valdis. But by doing so, your childhood 
 friend Drewin discovers that Valdis is actually going to kill you when the job is done, which actually 
 happens, but not the part about you being killed. You are betrayed by Valdis but the life taken 
 is not yours, it was Drewin. After that, you are a prisoner to the Dryads, who found you at the 
 Temple, which held a piece of the Shield of Azunai, the only object which held enough power to 
 withstand the Sword of Zaramoth. All in all, I don't want to spoil the story anymore, but to that 
 point really, you have only played for about 30 minutes so not much spoiled.
  
  The graphics in Dungeon Siege 2 are what you can expect from a game done in the mid 2005. It's 
 not as polished as it could have been, but the story and gameplay will make you forget about the 
 graphics. Atleast I don't care how it looks, I just want a nice story and a good gameplay.
  
  The music and sounds, well, they are what you would expect from Dungeon Siege and from Chris 
 Tailor. They are quite the same they were in Dungeon Siege and Legends of Aranna, but some pieces 
 are made better, which I absolutely loved.
  
  Gameplay is absolutely fantastic. You are given the choice to make your character either a spell 
 caster, ranger or a close-up fighter OR you can make your character do all of that, but in doing 
 so, you will make your character weak, since he can't perform one of these superbly, but he can 
 do all of em weakly.
  
  The story all in all is catchy. Saving the world from Valdis and gathering to pieces of the Shield 
 of Azunai. You will meet many people who are willing to join you in this adventure and they are 
 proficient to do one art better then others. Dryads, Half-Giants, Elves and Humans.
  
  All in all, Dungeon Siege 2 is a succesful game that delivers what it was meant to deliver, a great 
 story and a great gameplay with a few twists on the way. If you are a fan of the Dungeon Siege 
 series, you deffinently want to get this one. This is the best installation in the series and a 
 real success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_gw
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege 2 in my opinion the best RPG ever made. First the story is just awesome. I have played 
 many other RPG games but none of their stories were as good as the story of Dungeon Siege 2. I 
 was eager to see what happens next so I played at least 6 hours a day. I just love the game-play. 
 I like that heroes have 4 slots for spells plus 4 more for special skills and you just have to 
 make your spells deal more and more dmg. It is not easy with mages but as you level up you start 
 to get the hang of it. I have to say that the melee hero with two weapons (this is my favourite 
 type) is overpowered without the expansion of the game. When you level up the ELEMENTAL RAGE and 
 you have life steal you can go and kill everything in your way. I was killing the bosses in seconds 
 which is not good for the game though but it's a lot of fun. My record as far as I can remember 
 is 2500 dmg with each hand and when we add the life steal the whole thing equals to immortality. 
 That's why I recommend that you should play the game with the expansion installed. Without the 
 expansion the game is great too but with BW installed the game is more balanced. The melee is not 
 so "bugged" as we like the say in Bulgaria but there is strategy that is as good as the Elemental 
 Rage thing. As a matter of fact it is even more fun watching your hero swinging with his swords 
 like hell. There are heroes with whom you can make a party and this is very amusing but there is 
 something even better. PETS! Yes they are stronger and when they are around the game is even more 
 interesting. The pack-ram is very helpful because you can carry many items. The skills of the heroes 
 and the pets are very good and I don't have anything against them. There aren't spells that deal 
 only damage. There are curses, summoning spells, spells that increase your dmg, health and so much 
 more. The special attacks help a lot and they are very impressive (Elemental Rage is one of those 
 special attacks) . Fighting with the beasts in DS 2 is just awesome. Another thing that kept me 
 in the game was the quests. The main quests are something I will never forget but the optional 
 quests are impressive as well. The other thing I like about this game is that the quests are not 
 only like some other games "go kill this and that". In DS 2 there are many puzzles with all kind 
 of lights, pushing here and there and so much more. I had a really great time solving every quest 
 in the game. Playing this games is something I will never regret. The graphics is on a good level. 
 You can zoom in and out, rotate the camera. This helps a lot when you are in a big battle and you 
 are like "lol where is my hero? I cant' see him." The sound of the game is excellent as well. The 
 first I played the game was in a Internet cafe and I beat the game with a mage in combat magic 
 (lightning rules) . After that I played it again at home with the same type of hero and I did all 
 the quest in the game and collected everything that can be collected but unfortunately I don't 
 know how but I lost my save. This is the tragedy of my life. Then I made a melee and did pretty 
 much everything again (but less compared to the mage) . My favourite genre is RPG and I have to 
 say that DS 2 is something that every RPG fan must play. I will say just one more thing. The best 
 RPG of 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nagol726
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon diege 2 is an outstanding upgrade to its brother dungeon siege. the game gives you a fast 
 paced hack and slash gameplay with various quests to keep you on your feet. suprisingly the game 
 offers a desent story unlike most hack and slash games. sure it may sound, look and feel like the 
 rest of the games like this. "games like this" there arnt many that really stand out. Diablo 2 
 was the best hack and slash game i have ever played. there was nothing more satisfying then killing 
 diablo or better yet his brother baal. the games isnt all streight forward. there are many secret 
 and unseen things that you may find while playing the game over again. the first time i played 
 the game threw i liked it. but when i went back and played it again i realized how much i had missed. 
 
  
  
  Like diablo 2 once you beat the game you can go back and play on a harder difficulty alowing you 
 to get new weapons, armour, and companions. 
  
  The one downside to the games is the skill tree. once you have got to level 39 there is knowhere 
 else to go. no more skills, spells, or wepon requirnments untill you get to the next diffculty. 
 still no more skills. other than that the game is great and fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: owen_2
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 9, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  Summary: A game in the true tradition of the action-rpg genre which means mindless monster bashing 
 with a simple story line, with no specific characteristics, no interesting music to speak off and 
 simplistic character customization.
  
  From time to time I try games I actually have the gut-feeling I don't like, in the forlorn hope 
 that I was wrong. Game I thus end up liking after rejecting them first are fallout (yes I thought 
 it was a shooter) and Bloodlines ( I thought it was an action game) . However in the case of some 
 other games, like diablo II and dungeon siege I, my gut-feeling was right. Not that the games are 
 bad, mind you: they are just part of a genre I just don't like, the hardcore action rpg game. It 
 is interesting to note how misnamed this genre is. In the days that rpg was still pen and paper 
 every core book of about every game system repeated that rpg was about a well developed storyline 
 in a believable game world and not about spawning unending streams of monsters for the players 
 to chop to bits. Since computers intruded into the rpg world a complete genre has been born that 
 exactly does what is forbidden by these game systems. 
  
  So basically this kind of game is a revolving door spawning monsters for the player to cut down 
 until either the game or the player gives up. The idea is that the former happens, in my case it 
 is usual the latter. Remarkably these games try to shun a good story, in-depth character development, 
 good music or simply some tongue-in-cheek humor. Such a game usual tries to score points on visuals 
 and sounds. 
  
  At the core Dungeon Siege II is not break from it's predecessor and from others in it's genre like 
 Diablo II. It's predecessor I played once trough and determined never to play it again. Diablo 
 II I tried thrice but never got pas the third level because of it's sheer boring repetitiveness. 
 The same applies to dungeon siege II. In this it is therefore a job well done.
  
  About the visual I can say that you shouldn't let the adds and box covers of the game entice you 
 in thinking you get to play that good-looking redhead. Well, you might get to play her, but she 
 doesn't look half as good in-game as she looks on the cover. And this overall applies to all the 
 visuals from the game. The graphics of DSII are remarkable as little has been improved in comparison 
 with, say, Diablo II. So actually in the area you expect something remarkable the game actually 
 is rather conventional.
  
  About the sounds one can nothing more than that they are adequate.
  
  There is little else 
 to add some spice to this game. As said there is a trivial story-line and music is almost nowhere 
 in evidence. All of all therefore a conventional implementation of the hardcore action rpg game 
 that hardly tries to raise the bar and basically offers the same boring repetitive experience as 
 it's predecessors.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kathrynloch
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  Overall, I enjoyed DS2 and I recommend it as a pretty good game to add to the RPG fan's library.
 
  
  A friend let me borrow it and I beat it in about two weeks. The extended time frame was only because 
 of my limited play time and because of the fact at one point, I did get seriously disgusted with 
 it for a day or two. Because of this, I'm not recommending someone go out and pay full price for 
 the bloody thing, but if you have a friend you can trade with, get on the cheap, or a place where 
 you can find it used, then definitely add it to your collection.
  
  The overall story is interesting but extremely under-developed. As a published author, I really 
 enjoy games that are story-driven. In a good book, characters have a story arc in which they learn 
 and grow. In a good game, the idea is the same and you actually take part of the growth by improving 
 the character's skills. But in a really good game, the story line reflects this growth as well. 
 I didn't see the latter as much in DS2... and the dialogue is lame at times. It's also irritating 
 to have the dialogue start, but half way through a distant enemy sees you and attacks. The dialogue 
 is interrupted as you hack your way through a swarm. By the time it's over, you are so far away 
 from where the dialog triggered, why bother to go back?
  
  When my friend let me borrow it, he told me it was extremely difficult and he couldn't even get 
 through the first level. I managed to get to about level 14 before I ran into to some nasty critters 
 that would kill my toughest warriors in two hits. Multiply that by 10 attacking at the same time 
 and there were points where I wouldn't even get the death scream out of the members, they were 
 dead before they could utter it. That got irritating until I found the patch which seemed to fix 
 the problem.
  
  Other than that - the game was stable on my system. I didn't have any lock-ups or crashes.
  
 
  The combat got downright overwhelming at times with hordes of bad things swarming in. This resulted 
 in keeping one hand on the mouse, holding down the right mouse button to keep the attacks going, 
 and the left hand on the keyboard pressing hot-keys for healing, manna, the power attacks, and 
 solely watching the health of the party instead of the combat. 
  
  I ended up booting my ranger in favor of another fighter. But this didn't help much as the attackers 
 can pretty much pass through the big boys and go straight for your mages. What's the point of having 
 a marching order if the bad guys can literally walk through occupied space? The fighters also prefer 
 to attack from behind, so if you do manage to stop the bad guys in front of you, the fighters will 
 step around, allowing the bad guy to charge the mage while the fighter attacks from behind. This 
 might work if there wasn't swarms because in doing this, your fighter also exposes his back and 
 has to stop to protect it allowing the first bad guy to continue his charge at the mage.
  
  In this game, death and resurrection get irritating too. If your entire party dies in combat, you 
 are resurrected less 25% of your gold at the nearest town - without most of your equipment. You 
 still possess what you had in inventory for the most part (at least the first time you die - if 
 you die again it falls to the ground) but whatever you were wearing is back where you died. So 
 you have to trek all the way back in your skivvies - and the areas you just cleared have regenerated 
 monsters of course - and try to get close enough to your stuff so it automatically comes back to 
 you. This can be practically impossible if you died in a swarm of enemies.
  
  I discovered if I used the teleport spell right before I entered a place that looked pretty bad, 
 it would remain open if I died, allowing me to teleport back to that same spot. At least I could 
 grab my equipment fast without wading through tons of enemies. There is also a storage locker in 
 each town. At first I tried keeping back-up armor and weapons in it. This worked for a time but 
 later in the game, as the party increases in size, this becomes almost impossible to do.
  
  As the game progressed, my storage locker had the sole purpose of holding enchantable items and 
 "reagents". The game like many in the genre has items which can be upgraded with various trinkets 
 to improve them. Unfortunately this system is unwieldy and time consuming. You don't save any money 
 creating stuff, and most of the stuff you loot off of dead enemies is going to be better anyway. 
 Plus you can't break things down - a feature that would have been really cool. Basically, I used 
 my storage locker to hold everything until I collected enough to be worth my while. Then spent 
 quite a bit of time juggling inventory to get all of this crap to the person in town who could 
 enchant the stuff. Then spent more time mixing and matching, adding armor points and resistance 
 percentages, spending a ton of money, only to give up because I couldn't match or improve what 
 I already had on. I managed to create a couple of decent pieces, which were promptly rendered obsolete 
 on the next level.
  
  The last irritation was saving, then quitting the game. If you saved in the middle of the level, 
 even at a town. It would treat you as if you were trying to cheat the resurrection (if you roll 
 back to a saved game, instead of dying, it resets you to several stages back on the previous level 
 so you have to do it all over again) . Okay, if the designers want to do this so you can't cheat 
 death fine, but if I'm in the middle of something and have to quit while I'm still alive, I shouldn't 
 have to replay levels... grrrr!
  
  The powers and magic your party members can develop are a lot of fun and are one of the high points 
 of the game. There's nothing quite as satisfying as pulling of a power move in swarms of enemies 
 and watching the hit points drain away. When all is said and done, your party steps out of a giant 
 pile of enemy bodies - I highly recommend the "pick up all" button and sorting the loot later.
 
  
  Toward the end of the game, it does get a bit repetitious as you are slogging through tough bad 
 guys for a major boss fight. But once you get there, you figure the ultimate boss fight is around 
 the corner - it's not. Hey, I just stomped these "sub-bosses" and now you're throwing grunts at 
 me again? Sheesh! It has a definite feel of the Rodney Dangerfield of RPG - no respect!
  
  Overall though, the game is enjoyable and if you are a fan of the genre it is a good addition to 
 your library. Good luck and have fun! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalinmoor
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - / B - \
  At the time of its release, Dungeon Siege 2 was, at the very best, passable in the graphics department, 
 and did not age very well. The game sports a large amount of low-res textures and poorly modeled 
 characters, the particle effects are reasonably well done but there are way too many of them at 
 times making them only a nuisance by blocking out everything on screen with brightly colored fireworks. 
 Its overall look will by no means make your eyes bleed, but if you have been playing more recently 
 released games it may be hard to keep from nitpicking everything on screen.
  
  Gameplay - / D \
  There is no nice way to say it, the gameplay is wretched. Just like its predecessor, 
 Dungeon Siege 2 tries to emulate Diablo 2 in many ways and falls flat on its face, the point and 
 click thing gets really old, really fast, and the endless hordes of NPCs with huge health pools 
 (presumably to make it more difficult) only manage to make combat incredibly dull after 10 minutes. 
 Combat in short, involves you highlighting an enemy and then holding down the left mouse button 
 until one of you is lying in a pool of blood.
  
  Sound - / B - \
  The sound effects are nothing amazing, in fact it sounds almost exactly like dungeon siege one, 
 complete with its poorly done voice acting, 3 combat sounds, and the sound, you as the player make 
 when you are diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome. Jeremy Soule's music is the only redeeming 
 factor in the sound department to be honest and even that does little to help on the whole.
  
  Story - / D - \
  There is a saying, that if you put enough monkeys in a room with typewriters, 
 eventually you will get the complete works of Shakespeare, unfortunately it would appear this is 
 what gas powered games tried to do, and well, they didn't get Shakespeare. The story begins as 
 you and your best friend Drevin, a cocky blue haired elf who only criticizes you the entire time, 
 are dropped off by a dragon like creature into a battlefield as part of a mercenary army working 
 for the dark prince Valdis, which I feel the need to point out is an Ancient Scandinavian girl's 
 name. As you fight your way through the endless waves of bloodthirsty woodland critters, Drevin 
 mentions he has an ominous feeling and gives you his medallion. After you do a little more pointless 
 killing you reach your destination and watch a really dull cut-scene in which Drevin gets himself 
 killed and you blackout from, well, something. The game continues along an increasingly predictable 
 story arc until a vary anti-climactic ending at which point you will find yourself asking "why 
 on earth did I just play this?"
  
  Overall - / D \
  All said and done, dungeon siege 2 is a dull, predictable ride down been there lane. That's not 
 to say it doesn't have its small group of people who love it but I am not one of them. I would 
 personally recommend skipping it altogether.
  
  Final Score - / D \ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Now i never got a chance to play the first dungeon siege but DS 2 more then make's up for that. 
 Dungeon siege 2 is a great rpg that is long and though not very hard has some nice depth to it. 
 you start of by creating a character it's a pretty basic system here you get to choose a race ( 
 human, troll, elf or dryad) and then some hair and your look. then your ready to begin you adventure 
 the plot in DS2 is also pretty basic there an evil guy named valdis who has an ancient dark sword 
 and you get caught in the fray and end up trying to save the world. aside from the basic mechanic's 
 dugeon sieage 2 is a long game ( roughly 30-40 hour's) and is great fun. i alway's say you can't 
 beat a good rpg and dungeon siege 2 fit's that criteria in the best way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostownguru
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  I have been looking for a game for a long time to make me forget about Diablo 2. Well Dungeon Siege 
 2 did the trick for me. I like the single play and the multi play. I like the different multi play 
 modes, like classic and couples. The story was great too. The only thing I would have liked to 
 see improvement on is the tech support. The web support was very bad. I started having connection 
 problems with the multiplay games and support was hard to come by. Other than that this game was 
 a winner for me and would definitely consider recommending it to others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adam_the_Nerd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is a dungeon crawler. But don't let that turn you away. If you've ever played or heard 
 of Diablo or Fallout, this game is in a similar vein. It rolls some great components into a well-polished 
 package. I have 4 parts to my reviews: Graphics (7/10) , Sound (7/10) , Gameplay (10/10) , and Value 
 (10/10) .
  
  ---Graphics --- 7/10
  The graphics are not fantastic. Considering this game came out in 2005, the game should have had 
 better graphics than other RPGs KOTOR or Morrowind, which looked very pretty. That being said, 
 although the graphics aren't breathtaking, they aren't ugly either, and they get the job done. 
 The effects are nice and the textures, even when cranked to full can run smoothly on 2-3 year old 
 systems (All except mine) . ---Sound --- 8/10
  There is an astonishing amount voice acting in this game and even though it won't win any Oscars, 
 it isn't terrible and you can skip the voice over if it becomes too unbearable. The ambiance was 
 done really well and from caves to jungles, it really immerses you into the game, aurally at least. 
 The music isn't movie-epic style or abnormally catchy like McDonald's I'm Lovin' It jingle, but 
 it's original, good quality and varied enough as to avoid getting stale. This also aids in the 
 aural immersion factor. Now for Sound FX, which there are a lot of. Yet despite this large amount 
 of SFX, the ones used most often (like explosions) are the most repetitive. Bosses/monsters can 
 have a large repertoire of sound effects, while you are left with a measly three whooshes for your 
 sword.
  
  ---Gameplay --- 9/10 This is where the game shines. Being an RPG, you create a character, choosing 
 from male or female, and four races (humans, half-giants, dryads or elves) . Customization is not 
 detailed; youre left to choose a face, hair style, hair color, skin color and a name. You dont 
 get to pick a class; instead you make your own, which can be a double-edged sword. While youre 
 free to customize your characters path of advancement; an inexperienced player can make bad choices 
 early on, which make the game frustrating. RPG players, you should feel right at home. You choose 
 from Melee, Ranged, Combat Magic and Nature Magic. There are three attributes: Strength, Dexterity 
 and Intelligence. Heres how it works: the more you swing your sword around, the higher your Melee 
 and Strength will go; practice makes perfect. Also, powers from a skill tree can be picked that 
 grow in power as you level up. The only negatives are the story, which is a bit linear, and the 
 combat which is repetitive. However, the games story and combat system has enough choice to keep 
 it from feeling too restrictive or stale. Theres quite a bit of depth
  
  ---Value --- 10/10
  Though the games story is linear, youll have a lot of fun replaying with 
 different choices. Playing the game once through is enough to last you about 60 hours. Theres 
 also the whole play online with friends thing. The base game is about $30 US/CDN so you wont 
 bust your wallet on it. Overall, a great deal. The expansion, Broken World (which I dont own) 
 will cost another $30 US/CDN and adds two new classes. Comes with more spells, monsters, sidequests 
 and another 20 hours of gameplay after the main campaign. Not a good deal. Better to buy the bundle 
 in October, which combines game and expansion for $40-50 US/CDN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kane2929
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  this game is ok game there is a couple problem i have found like glitchs and other things like 
 if u run in to some where to fast and it wount read it just right and then u have to restart your 
 game and go througth it all again i would say it has good sound an d awsome graphics i would recommend 
 the game as long as u can get past the glitchs and other mess ups in the game but i would say it 
 is a good game to have compard to some of the others if u like rpgs then go for this game but if 
 u dont then i guess u are fobard well go try it it has some great story line some great missions 
 and some great music so i got R done u should to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dana733
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  This is a great RPG. I love the leveling system that allows you to customize your character in 
 almost infinite ways. Also, the tracking of quests in the journal is not to be beat anywhere. Every 
 step is laid out with little radio buttons that don't show up until it's available (and not a spoiler) , 
 then checked off when complete. Side quests are separated on different book pages from the main 
 quests, so you always know what you need to be working on.
  
  My only complaint is that it isn't much for repeat play. There are 3 difficulty levels but you 
 aren't allowed to choose a tougher level until you've been through the game on the easiest level. 
 Then when you do, there's nothing new; no different quests, no higher character levels past the 
 max in the easy game, just more monster spawning.
  
  But just the same, I'm playing it again after having put it down for over a couple of years and 
 am enjoying it.
  
  Oh, and it's a solid game, hardly any bugs right out of the box and only two patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I quite liked the original Dungeon Siege, though it did have its flaws. Fortunately, Gas Powered 
 Games realized this too. Rarely do you see a sequel improve this much over it's previous incarnation 
 but Dungeon Siege II is one of them.
  
  The very first thing you'll notice is the detail in the Graphics. It is simply an amazing change 
 from Dungeon Siege I. The game world is almost crowded with bushes and trees and whatever else 
 you'd expect to see in the varying locations (desert, forests, mountains, snow) . The terrain is 
 also much more interesting and, for the most part, lacks the 'tile' feel of it's predecessor (though 
 at some points you can indeed see where a tile didn't match with adjacent tiles.) Weapons and armor 
 all are presented very well. Armors look like what their 2d icons represent, though that's about 
 as much as one can say about them. Weapons, on the other hand, also have nice glow effects and 
 hit effects depending on their properties. For instance, a pair of Mage fist weapons I found made 
 my character's hands glow with fire. A sword with lightning damage will have sparks all a long 
 the blade and will also spark upon hitting an enemy.
  
  Battles do look great in this game, if you can even understand what's going on. Often there will 
 be so many effects on characters and spells going off not to mention characters on screen, it's 
 impossible to tell what's going on. But when some of that dust clears, and you can see your dual 
 wielder spinning and striking with both weapons, it just looks fantastic. Animations are not perfect, 
 but are at least interesting. More importantly, they're varied. There isn't just one death animation 
 for enemies, for instance, which helps greatly to keep the game from getting boring graphically.
 
  
  On to the actual gameplay. As with the former, your overall goal is to form a party, kill everything 
 in your path, and pick up the loot. For the most part the game is linear and you'll only have one 
 real path to follow. However, you will find a few side paths and caves that are either there for 
 a little extra experience and loot, or one of the numerous side quests. There isn't a staggering 
 amount, but enough to give you a break from the main quest, as well as just adding a bit more depth 
 and entertainment to the game. While there's certainly many "Go fetch me this item!" quests, there's 
 a fair amount that will take you a fair amount of time to complete and often span across all three 
 acts.
  
  Another nice addition is a few puzzles in both side quests and the main quest. This adds a nice 
 break from fighting the hordes of enemies in Dungeon Siege II. The puzzles really are not to hard 
 and you can usually solve them by just stumbling around and clicking on anything you can interact 
 with. Some do require a bit more thought but the point is it's something other than just killing 
 which is a welcome change.
  
  Bosses are almost puzzles as well, as generally there will be some gimmick you must figure out 
 how to beat. For instance, one boss might be invincible from normal attacks and you must lead him 
 in the way of a certain object to actually kill him. To be honest, I don't really care for these 
 gimmick fights, but I suppose it does keep bosses from simply being tougher normal enemies.
  
  Leveling has also improved with new 'talents trees' just like Diablo II, though much reduced. 
 Classes (Melee, Ranged, Combat Mage, Nature Mage) only have one 'tree', though generally these 
 trees have two or three different paths to follow. For instance, a Melee character may choose to 
 be a tank, a dual wielder, or a two handed specialist. However, with only one tree for all of those 
 specializations, there's not really that many skills you'll care to get for each character. Still, 
 this makes leveling your characters far more interesting than in the first Dungeon Siege. You'll 
 still want to pick one class for your character and stick with it, multi class characters simply 
 do not work.
  
  An interesting addition for magic users is auto cast spell slots, of which there's four. By placing 
 a spell in one of these, the AI will attempt to cast it when appropriate. This can be extremely 
 useful for Nature mages, especially, since you can place heal spells here and your mage will heal 
 any damage character very shortly after they take damage. It also takes the tediousness off of 
 re casting buffs and summons.
  
  Possibly the biggest complaint about Dungeon Siege was that the game just about played itself. 
 Gas Powered Games attempts to address this issue with the addition of party commands. Though they're 
 few they do come in handy. For instance there's 'Rampage', which tells your party to attack whichever 
 enemy they want, which is good for numerous weak enemies. 'Mirror', which will be your most used, 
 is good for when you want your party to focus fire a certain enemy. There is also 'Wait' which 
 is very useful if you have a tank in your party to allow him or her to go ahead of the party and 
 allow enemies to focus their attacks on him.
  
  While all these commands are useful, fighting still comes down to holding the right mouse button 
 down on an enemy until it dies. This is a fairly large drawback since when you'll be facing off 
 against hordes of enemies at a time, it gets rather boring if all you get to do is right click 
 enemies. Dungeon Siege II is a hack and slash game, but as far as hack and slash games go, it's 
 still not as interactive as it could be.
  
  There is one redeeming factor to this, though, which is powers. As you spend your skill points, 
 you'll gain and upgrade certain devastating powers. These will do heinous damage and often to more 
 than one enemy. Some will down a wave of enemies in mere seconds while others may even one shot 
 some mini bosses. Dungeon Siege II encourages you to use them often as they recharge fairly fast, 
 and many items and skills increase the speed they recharge. That means don't just save them for 
 mini bosses! Use them so killing normal mob waves isn't as dull.
  
  As I said at the beginning, Dungeon Siege II is a great improvement over its predecessor and is 
 one of the best Hack and Slash games I've played. While I'd still like to see more in the ways 
 of controlling the combat, character powers do add an interesting element to the gameplay. My greatest 
 complaint would be that many sections of the game are just too long. There's already a great amount 
 of content to invest time into (many sidequests, leveling characters, getting better equipment) 
 yet there's many sections in the game where it will be non stop killing anywhere from 30 minutes 
 to an hour, which gets tiresome. Even still, I highly recommend Dungeon Siege II to anyone who 
 likes Hack and Slash games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_bummer_09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege 2 delivers a true RPG experience. If youre bored of the same old RPG with just non-stop 
 killing with no real story, than Dungeon Siege 2 is the game for you!
  With over 15 hours of game play, heaps of spells, just over a hundred items, many skills, amazing 
 monsters and so much more - Dungeon Siege 2 is the top of the class RPG of 2004-today. This game 
 will last you ages due to the massive lands of Aranna and tons of Primary and Secondary quests 
 - everything an RPG needs.
  
  Some gamers just love to kill, so Dungeon Siege is here to support your needs. Not your thing? 
 Well there's plenty of exploring to do and mysteries to solve so don't leave now. There's reasonably 
 good graphics and sound, to keep the player in the mood and to want to keep playing - so don't 
 get cranky. The environment to run around and go absolutely mad in doesn't lack much aspects, so 
 enjoy the view while you hack your way through to the next cave or desert.
  
  The lastability for this game goes so far it's not funny! You'll be unfolding the mysteries, killing 
 crazy monsters and bosses, running through luscious environments and getting through the storyline 
 for hours on end. If you are a complete skits, and think it's too short, try Dungeon Siege 2: Broken 
 World for size!
  
  The amount of features in this game will turn you into a feature yourself - no really, you will. 
 Since every gamer loves to play as himself, Dungeon Siege has taken this into the heart of the 
 game and given the player to create his own character - it's simple, but you won't notice yourself 
 under that huge layer of armor and weapons you'll be carrying, if you don't believe me ask that 
 poor pack mule of yours that has to carry your luggage for you! Pack mule? You say. Indeed, you 
 have a range of pets to choose from including pack mules, dire wolfs, elemental mages, scorpions 
 and more, on top of the wide range of summoning spells! And what's a hero who walks around in the 
 nude and fighting monsters with their bare hands? - A nobody, that's why Dungeon Siege 2 has included 
 a massive selection of weapons and armour to support you through your journey as either a Combat 
 Mage, Nature Mage, Ranger or the traditional Melee warrior, all of which have access to other miscellaneous 
 items including health potions and mana potions.
  
  So Dungeon Siege 2 delivers what is expected of a superb RPG... or experience. Get out there and 
 see your local gaming shop and hope Dungeon Siege 2 is on the rack! Obviously, Dungeon Siege is 
 truly amazing... it's an adventure you cannot afford to miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Yes, now I'm really satisfied with what Dungeon Siege II has to offer! It made several improvements 
 such as more interesting side quests (a fundamental component in any RPG) , and better character 
 skill development.
  
  For those of you who loved the original Dungeon Siege, you won't be disappointed with its successor. 
 For those of you who prefer Diablo II over DS, then you might want to try DSII for one of the same 
 reasons you love Diablo II, and that is leveling up. This time round, you get to be much involved 
 in the development of your characters by allocating points to their specific skillsets depending 
 on their class (like the Diablo II skill tree) , and these skills are varied enough for various 
 combos, thus providing the motivation to keep on playing and leveling up. However, in my opinion, 
 it still lacks the pacing and intensity that Diablo II provides, since you still need a bit of 
 micromanagement on the party-based system.
  
  The visuals are much more interesting than the first DS, with a richer color palette and much more 
 complex environment design. Sound effects are cool especially of the many dungeon trapdoors and 
 gates that you will so often activate throughout the game where they are richly enhanced to give 
 you that Dungeon Siege experience.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 19, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7/10
  The first thing that leapt into my head when I started playing this was, Hey, it's Diablo II but 
 pretty! Superficially, yes, it's very similar. An action-RPG with the emphasis very much on the 
 action, with plenty of skill-tree climbing and item hoarding to be had. It's not Diablo, though. 
 After a while the repetitive hack 'n' slash combat wears thin, mainly because of the total lack 
 of challenge. This is a pretty easy game: just click on the monster you want to bash, keep another 
 finger poised over the health potion key, and eventually your foe will go down along with his waves 
 and waves of minions. The skill system and the vast numbers of items to be found allow for the 
 vague RPG aspect of the game, and to be fair it does add a further dimension to the gameplay despite 
 it's simplicity. All in all, Dungeon Siege II is good at what it does and doesn't try to be fancy.
 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  The graphics are reasonable. The world and it's characters are fully 3D, and there are enough graphics 
 options that can be bumped up to make it fairly pretty. There's nothing that makes this game sit 
 atop the shiny pile though; even when it was released a couple of years back there were much better 
 graphics available. But it does the job.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  Oooh, nasty. Well, to be specific: the voice acting is nasty. Terrible, even. Nay, it is abysmal. 
 I've heard some bad readings in my time but this may just take the prize. Not that the lines spoken 
 are any Shakespeare, but hiring a group of bored-sounding daytime soap rejects would drag even 
 Hamlet into the murky depths of mediocrity found here. On the other hand, the music isn't bad: 
 a nice orchestrated epic score that is certainly better than average.
  
  Value: 7/10
  There's nothing here that can't be found elsewhere, whether in the first Dungeon Siege game or 
 in any number of Diablo-clone hack 'n' slashers. It does everything well, though, and it's fun 
 enough to play through once. The campaign is fairly lengthy, which makes up for it's lack of difficulty.
 
  
  Tilt: 7/10
  Good.
  
  Pros:
  Dungeon Siege II is an enjoyable action-RPG that gets the job done, looks good and will keep at 
 least two of your fingers occupied if not your brain.
  
  Cons:
  The repetitive combat gets old after a while and there isn't really much of a challenge to be found 
 anywhere - you have to play through the campaign at least once on the default cakewalk setting 
 to even access the higher difficulties. Also, the voice acting is simply poor.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you've played Diablo II to death or if you absolutely have to have another hack 
 'n' slash action RPG, this is probably the best of the current crop, but it's no classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raze35
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 13, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  its not much to go by but in a world full of WoW players and 12 years olds abusing people you get 
 pretty sick of MMORPG gaming, its relieving to sit back and play a casual RPG that WoW and other 
 similar titles took the idea from...
  
  in a diablo esque dungeon romping RPG, the Sequel to the gas powered games smash hit by Chris Taylor, 
 dungeon siege 2 throws you back into the world of Arrana for one last round against a new foe, 
 and new worlds!
  
  the game starts of pretty action packed for your average RPG, while you invade a Dryad beachhead 
 as a mecenary party you will develop some amature skills and learn the tricks and trades to dungeon 
 siege II, right now would be the best time to open up the options and enable features that Dungeon 
 Siege I had as TACTICAL AI, this would be auto attack and auto defend...
  
  the game sprawls across many diverese landscapes starting on a dryad beachfront, to the dryad city 
 and forest then a barren wasteland and so forth you get to experience the best of Party Based RPGS...
 
  
  The game is great and the multiplayer is good too it has decent replayability especially if you 
 want to max out your uber character at the highest level possible!
  
  was well worth the money and worth the wait too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasoneboyd
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  I could not believe that the producers of DS2 turned such a playable (but repetitive) game like 
 Dungeon Seige into this! Gone is the simple gameplay and quick switching of attach/spell actions, 
 replaced by an awkward interface and a much too close third person review. The graphics are far 
 behind those of DS1 in my opinion, and present a chunky view of the gameworld. The only new element 
 are the additional skills laid out in a tree such as for Diablo or Titan Quest
  
  I wish I'd not paid for this game, check a demo before you poor your money down the sink. Better 
 yet - just buy DS1 for less and get much more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicare
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege 2 is an action styled rpg that takes place in the mythical world of Aranna. Built 
 around the sword and sorcerer lore and legends of the first Dungeon Siege, this game takes place 
 in another region of the same game world. Anyone who has played Diablo or Diablo 2, will be immediately 
 familiar with both the gameplay and style of this game. While it improves upon diablo graphically, 
 this game is in essence a diablo clone. The gameplay is fairly straight forward. There are four 
 main class types in the game - warrior, ranger (archer) , combat mage, and nature mage. Warriors 
 specialize in physical combat and damage resistance. Rangers excel at using bows/crossbows and 
 thrown weapons. Combat mages, on the other hand, rely mainly on elemental or death damage magic 
 to do their bidding. Nature mages are the healers but also have some summoning and elemental magic 
 to assist them.
  
  In line with the 4 major classes, are 4 character skills: archery, melee, combat magic, and nature 
 magic. These skills slowly improve the more you use them. Want your characters melee skill to improve 
 - use a melee weapon. While it is possible to develop a character that is well balanced in all 
 4 skills, there is no benefit in doing so. You end up having a severely underpowered jack of all 
 trades, master of none. It is much better to have a highly specialized character in one class.
 
  
  Each class also has a sub skill tree associated with it. As you level up in your respective class, 
 you gain skill points that can be assigned. Depending on your preferences, there are many different 
 paths to take. For example, you could make a warrior who specializes in 2 handed weapon attacks, 
 one that specializes in shield defences, or one that dual wields weapons. Again, it genereally 
 benefits your character to pick a specific path and specialize.
  
  Combat is fairly easy. On the default difficulty level - and consequently the only one you can 
 access at the start - you control a party of up to 4 characters. You can only control one character 
 directly at a time, but you can set the AI to have the other companions mirror your actions or 
 simply attack any enemy on screen. To attack an enemy, simply point and click on them. Your character 
 will attack them with whatever weapon or spell is equipped. As your characters progress in levels 
 and subskills, they gain access to certain power skills then can be used. These typically involve 
 very powerful attacks that can be used once, and then have to recharge by attacking more monsters. 
 And that's about it. Point, click, and repeat.
  
  You start in each main area in a town and then journey out from there to progress the story. As 
 you travel around, you will uncover teleporters that let you either warp back to town or teleport 
 to a previously discovered teleporter. This helps to cut down on some of the backtracking that 
 you will be required to do. The first Dungeon Siege was very linear - you never had any incentive 
 to return to town or a prior explored area. The developers have made some changes, added some side 
 quests, and improved upon this shortcoming. Many of the sidequests will have you returning to town 
 or searching out old areas to gain access to previously restricted parts.
  
  The story is mostly underwhelming. It's nothing bad, just nothing that novel and fairly cliche. 
 Stop the evil villain from destroying/enslaving the world and avenge your fallen friend.
  
  Sound wise, the game plays well. The underlying musical scores are done by Jeremy Soule - who many 
 of you may be familiar with - and his haunting scores permeate the game. The only downside is that 
 the music seems to be too much in the background and hard to hear.
  
  Graphic wise the game is decent, but a little dated. It's certainly an upgrade over the prior dungeon 
 siege and other diablo clones, but doesn't offer anything that breathtaking or notable.
  
  All in all, this was a solid and fun action rpg, but nothing spectacular. Not a lot of deep strategy 
 involved in the game - it's a game where you can just jump in and start playing. The first time 
 through it should take a thorough player about 45-60 hours to finish. Once completed, you can unlock 
 higher difficulty levels, but there is not a lot of incentive to replay the game. Diablo fans will 
 likely enjoy this game, but hardcore jrpg fans may not like the lack of an engrossing story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2048
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Wow, there are a lot of things that make this game great, but the one thing that stands out the 
 most is that it is just plain FUN! This game is not technical, doesn't boggle your brain, or get 
 you bord. The gameplay is just outstanding and very straight forward and self-explanatory. Since 
 the first game, the graphics have improved a lot and makes the game seem more atmospherical. The 
 simplicity and the well thought through idea just makes it plain fun. I do have to say the first 
 levels of the game are brutally hard, but later on it just becomes brutally easy after your character 
 hits level 17 or so. So, if you're a fan of RPGs this is the hack and slash game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Illscrewyoubig
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon siege 2 is a solid role playing game, with a hint of multiplayer.
  
  First off, ther eis the actual rpg upgrading system. Sure, its not great, and took me a couple 
 of hours to get what it meant, but it branches out on everything so that no matter how strong, 
 you can't just do everything.
  
  Secondly is the fparty style group, which makes it a bit more flexible, but insensible in that 
 pets and other characters will just sit around all day doing nothing.
  
  This leads to pets. I haven't had much experience witht hem yet, but I know its kinda strange. 
 Why is a newborn pet like level 48 if you're that level when you get it? And why do you feed it 
 stuff so it gains abilities. Also, the fact it levels even if inactive makes it seem like an ultimate 
 creature, ready to swap on at any time to unleash crazy attacks.
  
  But the Multip [layer is really great. There is absolutely no transition problems, but though lag 
 and delay kinda ruin the experience, not too much. Any skilled player can handle it easily.
  
  So, if you're looki8ng for a goodgame with a great story line this the game for you. However, 
 it has many unrealistic aspects, so not for those who need everything to make sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I just finished up Dungeon Siege II yesterday. This game is a good action RPG/dungeon hack - whatever 
 you want to call it. I played the first Dungeon Siege a few years back and was just wowed by the 
 graphics. I thought the gameplay became a little taxing in the latter half, but overall it was 
 a great game. Dungeon Siege II lives up to its predecessor in many ways. However, I felt the combat 
 in DSII to be a little more balanced than the first game. This doesn't necessarily make it a better 
 game though. DSII is good but not great. I will proceed to a more systematic breakdown of what 
 I liked and didn't like about the game.
  
  Pluses:
  1) Fairly epic game - should take most gamers at least 50 hours or more to complete - longer with 
 the so-so expansion pack
  2) Decent story the pulls everything together - not a fantastic story, but enough to keep you mildly 
 immersed. At it's heart, DS is a combat driven rpg
  3) Cool items, weapons armor, etc. - You can even enchant armor with various items - I didn't spend 
 a lot of time on the enchantment stuff though.
  4) Great combat - best part of the game is just plowing through a bunch of baddies. In addition, 
 and a related plus factor, is the special powers developed through role play. Very fun to use these 
 in battle.. they are effective
  5) Decent bossies - they get some stellar hitpoints towards the end, but note that you have some 
 options available, not including your own weapons, that allow you to quickly dispense with what 
 appears to be the most challenging of bosses, including Valdis
  6) Very good sidequests - I enjoyed some of the sidequests more than the primary quest - some quests 
 earned earlier in the game won't be finished until much later
  7) Decent if not overly challenging puzzles - helps break the monotony of combat - could use more 
 of these
  8) Sound and music is superb - no question that the developers have this factor nailed. Music used 
 as a great tool to set mood
  
  Minuses:
  1) Story could be more immersive. It kept me going but I always feel this is something the DS series 
 could do better which leads me to...
  2) Characters - I never really feel engaged with the primary character - who is he/she? why are 
 they here? I don't think one gets enough answers even at the end. The other playable characters 
 are alright but nothing really brings them all together. There's some intermittent dialogue a la 
 Baldurs but the other characters are pretty much just there to fill out your party and add a sidequest 
 or two. I would have liked to see my knight get a little lovin' from the nature mage or princess... tee 
 hee
  3) Equipment sets - Although I would otherwise classify these as a plus, because they are sooo 
 cool, the game makes it very difficult to get all these a items together. Not until close to the 
 end was I able to put even one set together - maybe i was doing something wrong ... i don't know. 
 It appears that there were different levels of a given type of set, but I couldn't even get the 
 lower level sets together. Note: As you put weapons, armor, jewelry together from a set you gain 
 additional powers/enhancements offered by the set. The concept is great and the sets are designed 
 to match not only the classes, but also the specific skills you master. For instance there's a 
 set for the dual wielding knight or a different sets for the shield bearer knight or two-handed 
 knight. All fine and dandy, but I just never really got to put it all together. The only set I 
 was able to put together was one for a crossbow wielding ranger - the set was actually pretty awesome 
 and powerful, although limited to just 3 items- should have had a helmet/hood with it too. Anway, 
 as you can see, I written quite a bit on this one point. I feel it's a potentially awesome aspect 
 of the game that should be a little easier to put into effect. This leads to my next point...
 
  4) Stores/loot - I amassed a great deal of wealth by the end of the game. There is much gold to 
 be had and you can max out of gold by using the chants and jewelry to increase your payouts. This 
 is good, but there is not much to buy from the stores except the usually potion or spell. The weapons 
 and armor in the stores are pretty much junk compared to what you find in battle or searches. There 
 are some decent amulets and rings in the store, but otherwise you will be very rich with nothing 
 to buy. I would have recommend that the stores at least have a piece from one of the sets available 
 so that you can complete the set after finding the other pieces. Also, note that the stores in 
 the last town of the game are surprisingly the worst - very sparse until you complete a certain 
 side quests, but even then you're almost done with the game.
  5) Voice Acting - in short it's just a mixed bag - some good some very bad to downright annoying. 
 Minor beef though in my view.
  6) Graphics - They are certainly okay , but not the wow factor of the first game. There you have 
 it. I know I dwell on some of the perceived negatives in DSII, but these are just things that I 
 would like to see done better in the series. Overall, DSII is a very enjoyable game that every 
 rpg fan should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepper8
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 16, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege 2 is a great game. It has goods and bads like most games. Lets start off with the 
 gameplay. The gameplay and controls are quite simple. The controls are mainly point and click. 
 One of the things I like in DS2 is the pet growing system. You can it to make it grow and get stronger. 
 The character building is good also. It gives you a variety of different things to use. Now we 
 go to the music. The music in this is great and well put together. Another good point is the variety 
 of enemies which are spread across the land of DS2.
  
  Now to the bad or not that great points. The graphics in this game actually are about in between. 
 They sometimes look dated but they are alright. Next, the voice acting. It sounds like they got 
 the same people playing many different characters. No we get to the main set back, it's to easy! 
 The game difficulty can be set higher after you beat the game though. Overall I think this games 
 is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  I bought this game after enjoying the first in the series. Although I was not disappointed in my 
 purchase, I wasnt that thrilled either. I guess I was expecting to get blow away with something. 
 Part two is just more of the same, there was anything major in improvements. Graphically its still 
 looks great then again it didnt need improvement there. I found that in single player mode, its 
 way too linear. The path is pretty much set for you, All one has to do is walk and fight and along 
 the way you level. I guess I am used to leveling a character by killing monsters over and over 
 in the same place, I know that tedious but thats my preference. As a RPG it a much longer than 
 the first in single player campaign mode. In multi player mode, I think most people would rather 
 play a MMO than this. Still for me it was a great buy and a nice addition to my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  Ok i love Dungeon Siege 1 and Legends of Arrana but this.... this is a faliure
  
  Pluses: well.... it's sometimes fun to play.... sometimes and it's pretty long....
  
  Minuses: 
 the story Sucks with a capital S; the graphics are horrible even dungeon siege 1's graphics are 
 much better than this; the sounds are lame and stupid; NO multiplayer unlike it's predecessor; the 
 game is too long for it's own good; even the great hack and slash formula does not work in this 
 game; simply ugly looking menues
  
  Sooo this game is a flat-out disaster the story sucks the characters are lame and the game is overall 
 stupid and should not be played by anyone EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panush
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  Okay, i was to fascinated by the first one, i just HAD to play the sequel. We are lucky that games 
 are not like movies, where the follow-ups totally blows. This one is actually better than the first 
 one, more options, more oppurtunitys, more gameplay, more fun :D At first, i didnt think that this 
 one would be as good as the first one, but i was totally shocked when i put this one on. Already 
 from the start, there is action and everything. I noticed that EVERYTHING had been improved since 
 the release of Legends of Aranna, which by the way ALSO kicked ass. Everything was improved, completely 
 everything, the graphics, the fighting system, more spells, more weapons, you can get skills, there 
 is teleporters, loads of cities and villages, bigger and meaner monsters, everything rocks about 
 this game. Graphics are wonderful, representing a near real world, making this game probably the 
 best rpg game ever made. But i havnt quite finished this game yet, but still, the rest looks indeed 
 promising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tzpb8
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege II continues the franchise and is a great playing experience.
  
  I have played the game for about a day or so and can tell that this game is fun to play and has 
 the greatest leveling system.
  
  Game play: Superb!
  
  Whether you play single player or multi play (lan, not on-line (haven't tested on-line yet) ) it 
 plays out well and it keeps you playing for hours possible killing some of your sleep time if your 
 not watchful.
  
  You start the game in a tutorial that blends in somewhat with the story somewhat (except for the 
 handbook entries in your journal that is very useful, that keeps you reading for awhile but you 
 will get a hang of the game well there) .
  
  The starting story is a bit unexpected so + points for originality.
  But as you proceed in the 
 story it starting to look like it is the normal you vs giant bad guy plot (keep in mind i haven't 
 even finished the game and have come to level 25 in single player) .
  Its good vs evil bar is twisted a bit in the beginning which is a bit fun :)
  and keeps me wondering 
 what will happen now in the story, not so predictable except only to the point of defeating the 
 main villain maybe.
  
  The interface is a bit clunky though and wonder why they decide to put powers on the number keys 
 instead of switching between weapon and the different spells, could have been made more powerful 
 this way and even more so if you could add more slots in the interface (like, better spell books 
 have more slots for active spells) and also support for more than 1 weapon to choose from so you 
 can quicker change your weapon from bow to hammer in a simple key press, the frustration of this 
 cools down a bit as you become more experienced with the game but its still there and i hope it 
 can be fixed completely by at least adding key shortcut support for it in a patch later on (i haven't 
 tried to patch it yet) , but its bad enough that it was like this in the original version, why? 
 why? why?.
  
  Can't rate on-line play cause i haven't played it.
  
  Dungeon Siege II features a really cool death system.
  When your entire party dies you drop all 
 your equipment and 25% of your gold on your corpse, you might say so what? i will just load my 
 saved game to the point i was before i died and i lose nothing.
  Na-ah doesn't work that way in Dungeon Siege II, cause if you load your game, when you don't have 
 your corpse it will count that as you have asked for a service from a necromancer that brings your 
 equipment back but not your gold, so you will lose that 25% if you try to load, instead of going 
 to your corpses and pick it all up.
  
  When you create your character you don't have to ponder over what class you want to choose (which 
 is not true for most rpg's) , you just select your race, gender and appearance and can say you should 
 decide what race to play by waging the role play factor high.
  I'm a bit disappointed at the number of hairstyles there is and such, but since you will probably 
 wear a helmet anyway it isn't too severe.
  
  Speaking about helmets, there is a nice number (without being too much (eq2 for example) ) of slots 
 to equip stuff, there is
  1 helmet slot.
  4 ring slots.
  1 amulet.
  1 body armor.
  1 glove.
  1 spell book slot (which you keep your spells in that you want to cast) .
  1 boots..
 
  2 weapon slots where you can wield a 1 handed or 2 handed weapon, with a single handed weapon 
 you can also wield a shield in your off-hand or another weapon if you got the dual weapon skill 
 for it, same for the shield -you need to get that skill but it is a pretty low-level skill so it 
 is no biggie.
  
  Leveling System: Superb!
  
  There are 4 groups you might get experience in and they are:
  Melee, Ranged, Combat Magic, and 
 Nature Magic.
  
  Melee is everything you use to hit your enemies with physically, such as swords and hammers.
 
  
  Ranged is bows/crossbows and also throw-ables like throwing stars and throw-able axes (don't know 
 if you can dual wield throw-ables, though it would be cool :)
  
  Combat Magic is your wizard-like spells like nukes and de-buffs.
  
  Nature Magic is as you 
 might expect your priest like spells such as healing, buffing, and also nukes which i think is 
 on-par with the combat magic's, but nature has no de-buffs so ultimately combat magic beats nature 
 magic in dmg / sec but nature can buffs affect your entire party at once, the down side is characters 
 can only have 2 active buffs on them at a time, same with de-buffs, only 2 de-buffs per head friend 
 and foe alike, but i have come across a bug here.. i try to curse my enemy with 2 de-buffs and 
 only 1 works.. weird, maybe i were cursed or something, or something where restricting me, or the 
 monster were extra strong and can only have 1 active curse on him??, so i'm not entirely sure if 
 it is a bug.
  
  You gain experience anytime you deal damage or one in your party deals damage, the experience is 
 shared between party members, so if your a dedicated healer then you can still level without using 
 a bow or something.
  
  You also only gain experience in the weapon or spell group that you have selected, so if you select 
 your nature spell, you will gain nature experience or if you select your sword you get melee experience.
 
  
  So if you hit with your sword (melee) on your mobs face for example, then you gain melee experience, 
 after you level your melee you can gain new skills and when you level you also get a skill point 
 that you can spend to increase your skills further. Quests is another source for skill points except 
 leveling.
  
  In a short version, you level in that which you use (sword == melee i. e) , and when you level you 
 will get skill points to spend to increase your skills to become stronger, which can give you a 
 new power (or just upgrading an existing power (power's max level is 3) ) if you got the skills 
 for it without spending any skill points on the power itself, so you can say that the powers is 
 unlocked , which i think i nice :)
  
  There are powers that are pretty fun to use and all skill groups have (melee, ranged, combat, nature) 
 that can be used to hurt your opponent (s) in more than 1 way or just buff / de-buff someone, this 
 means that your melee fighter or range bowman is not just attacking your opponent and you can deal 
 massive damage with your melee powers.
  These powers are 1 shots and after you use them you will have to charge your power bar by hurting 
 more enemies (pretty cool) . So i can assure you that all skill groups (or classes ) are fun to 
 play and balanced somewhat.
  
  
  
  Graphics: mediocre
  
  Its a 3rd person perspective game and the graphics look just so-so, but 3rd person games usually 
 don't look as good compared to first person games such as fps for example, so some + points in 
 graphics for being a third person rpg.
  
  
  Sound: good
  
  It blends in nicely and all npc's have speeches reeks of quality except for the missing facial 
 expressions which appears to be missing??, i didn't notice that it was missing when i played but 
 when i watched someone else play i noticed that the lips weren't moving... He played in 1280x1024 
 and i in 1024x768 so maybe thats why?, since this game requires you to use your mouse frequently 
 because you want to switch spells to cast, for example then you have to move your mouse across 
 the screen to select the spell you want to use with a simple left click then if it is a nuke spell 
 you just right click your monster and the spell fires, this is a BIG minus for game play, else 
 i might have given it a 10 in it instead (i would love to exchange the power shortcut for weapon 
 / spell shortcut) .
  
  Haven't noticed a piece of music miss-match yet when i think about it i don't even remember what 
 it sounded like, except for the npc's they all are voiced and it fits, not half-assed job that 
 some other games have.
  
  Don't know if it is recycled music / voice-overs cause i played dungeon siege I an age ago (sry) .
 
  
  
  Value: good (not really qualified to voice an opinion here cause of my low time playing the game 
 but i'll say it anyway)
  
  I played it single player first for about half a day and it rocked, then i played it another half 
 day with my brother over land and even through i started over, it was still fun to play so the 
 gaming value is good.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt???: what?
  
  Tilting means to rotate some degrees so i'm clueless to what this might mean so i just voted 8 
 on it.
  
  All in all its a great game that will keep you happy for many hours
  (recommend playing at 1024x768 resolution to make it easier to switch between your spells and weapons 
 to use) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  If Dungeon Siege is Diablo, then this game is Diablo II. It is the game the first one should have 
 been. They add a skill system. Character advancement is actually interesting this time around. 
 The world is bigger and much more interesting, although still very linear. The story is better. 
 In every way I can think of, this game is just like the first one, but better.
  
  It still gets tedious at times. It's also a lot harder if you ask me. There are some fights at 
 the end that feel pretty unfair. There were too many frustrating moments, but challenge isn't a 
 bad thing. The payoff was good. The character system and better plot made you feel like you were 
 working towards something much better than the first game did.
  
  This doesn't connect much to the first game. Don't bother with Dungeon Siege, just play this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oroeovo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  I had been itching recently to play a game like Diablo 2 but updated for a modern graphics engine. 
 I installed Diablo 2 and found the 800x600 resolution on my 26 inch widescreen LCD monitor to be 
 well, horrible. The pixels were really really big. I played it windowed for about half and hour 
 and quit. I downloaded the demo and played for hours and hours. BTW, if you play the demo and then 
 go buy the game don't expect your saves to work b/c they won't!
  
  The graphics are great actually, lush backgrounds and drastically different locals. There are a 
 great deal of different weapon, armor, and magic effects. My only graphical complaint is that resolution 
 only goes up to 1280x1024. A nice 3-D manually controlled camera, with either your mouse (mouse 
 wheel zooms) or the w, a, s, d keys (my preference) . Like Diablo this is a point and click adventure. 
 Unlike Diablo, you'll have to click every time for your character to move. You can't hold the mouse 
 button down to do so. This is a little frustrating but I got over it pretty quickly. There are 
 several different races, no so many that you spend 4 hours setting up your character's appearance 
 like you might in any of the Neverwinter Nights games. When it comes down to it you can pick your 
 character on appearance alone, all of your other base skills will catch up pretty quickly depending 
 on what magic and/or weapon types you choose to use. So you can really just jump right in.
  
  You'll also find a skill tree for leveling up your character. Most skills are passive. When 
 combinations of skills in the tree are leveled up special attacks are unlocked. You'll meet many 
 companion characters along the way to help you in your fight. You control what skills, weapons 
 and armor they use as well. If you'd like you can even control them directly, you can also give 
 your teammates simple attack and wait commands ( you have to bind that wait hotkey) . Dont' worry 
 though, if you don't want any companions you probably can get by without them. I'd bring along 
 at least one character that's good at healing though. The game actually does seem a little tough 
 at first but once you get in and get a helper character or pet it gets more reasonable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razzavatar
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  I was wondering why this sequel got lower rating than the first one. If you liked the original, 
 you'll like this game more. It improves what worked in the first one and add more. Amazing sound/graphic, 
 fast paced game play, just pure fun.
  
  Even if you haven't played any role playing games, you'll learn to play this game easily. I was 
 wondering why this sequel got lower rating than the first one. If you liked the original, you'll 
 like this game more. It improves what worked in the first one and add more. Amazing sound/graphic, 
 fast paced game play, just pure fun.
  
  Even if you haven't played any role playing games, you'll learn to play this game easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hackerdork
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Like the deck shows, this game looks much better than the frist DS, but the game play is just the 
 same stuff over and over. I found myself wanted to put the mouse down and go watch plan 9 from 
 outerspace (voted worse movie ever) .
  
  The game itself, you walk around, explore, and blow stuff up. Then y ou walk around explore and 
 blow stuff up, then you walk around, explore and blose stuff up.
  
  There are some rooms that offer a bit of a challange, more-so for how fast you can click the mouse 
 button or if your mouse will hold up to hitting the fire buttong 15,000,000 time to take down some 
 of the monsters.
  
  I did like that way this game looked , but when the game play was just the same ole DS as before 
 it kinda put me back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buzzylox
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 23, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a typical RPG, nothing special. Although I like the game over all, I liked the game-play 
 and the ability to have a team of fighters to join in, there's too many flaws to make this a really 
 great game. The flaws aren't major enough to quit it or be able to finish the game, just annoying. 
 Such as, some of the party members just stand there and don't fight at times, and too much wild 
 goose chases with the side quests that drag out the game and keep you from the main quest. I still 
 prefer Champions of Norrath, and Dark Alliance 2 for the PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  The main problem i see is just i love hack and slash games but they need to bump up your skills. 
 Common i want to use alot more skills not just sit here watching my guy hack at it then wam dead 
 wait another 20 kills. Its really fun and your like this is awesome. But later it can get repeatative 
 and boring. Sure you see new monsters and stuff. But i still think needs more skills. Graphics 
 are not that great for our standards of todays games. But then again its older and i can't really 
 blame it for having not so great. For the 30$ i think mabye 20$ cost it has now its definantly 
 worth it. You will be entertained for awhile.
  
  I think it really comes down to 2 things.
  
  Can you stand hacking monsters with same old skills 
 for hours and hours and not doing a super lot but hitting the H button for health. Thats another 
 problem you stock up on like 60 potions and since you need to beat normal to get to hard difficulty 
 its just plain easy. And most monsters won't slay you you just sit there. Get conciousness then 
 get up die get conciousness. It just seems plain easy and like walks you through. Sound is great. 
 But the gameplay can get very repetative and boring.
  
  But if you want more immersive fighting than **** this game go with like neverwinter nights more 
 immersive and fight you actually do something but hold the right mouse button down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege II seems to have taken its inspiration from Diablo II, with its archaicish looking 
 graphics and a music score that seems to fit better for Final Fantasy XII than the grittiness that 
 is the Dungeon Siege world. In this sequel, you get hosed by your leader and start out as a captive 
 for the enemy. It is your task to stop him from putting back together a stinking sword and shield 
 before he can remake the world in his own image. Also, you get a background on the whole Azunai 
 religion that is front and center in this world.
  
  Listen, if you're looking for a sequel that absolutely knocks your socks off, this isn't it. The 
 slash and hack world is more hands on than usual in this iteration. What new tweaks that this game 
 adds to is impressive, but it doesn't overwhelm you either. The changes are pretty moderate.
  
  There are still four basic classes in DS2. Fighters, Rangers, and your Combat and Nature mages. 
 The tweaks are that you have skills that you can put points into to improve certain skills. For 
 example, the ranger and nature mages have these survival skills that allows you to turn glowing 
 blue and red plants into healing and mana potions. The more points you put into this (up to 20) , 
 the larger the potion bottles become. A combination of these skills allows you to develop special 
 abilities that helps you even the odds against a particularly tough opponent.
  
  Magic is revamped as well. You have a wider variety of spells that a lot of different effects from 
 healing, resisting types of energies and damages, to of course damaging opponents. You have four 
 direct spell slots, two slots for spells that you can automatically cast (i. e. healing spells and 
 summoning monsters to fight for you) . There are also four reserve spells that you can swap out. 
 This makes the interface a little more bulky, and you can't switch between your weapons and spells 
 as easily as you could in the past. This is complicated by the attacking system which is so heavily 
 dependent on your mouse. I don't think that was really necessary.
  
  There are several new kinds of collections of clothing, armor, weapons, etc. One new aspect is 
 that if a particular item is of really good quality, you can enchant it and choose among various 
 raw materials which traits you wish to add to a particular item. You could develop a pretty good 
 series of select items all on your own. Pets not only carry items, but can attack in battle as 
 well.
  
  The two biggest changes to the game is the way you add people to your party and level up. You start 
 out with a party size of two, and at an inn, it is the difficulty of the game and the amount of 
 gold you have on hand to determine how many players you can recruit in this game. You can finish 
 a game with two people, but at the lowest game levels you can recruit four people, and up to six 
 on the most difficult level. I like this because it forces you to choose your competitors wisely. 
 Some of them come with very interesting secondary attributes. For example, one of your potential 
 party members can fix broken down areas of the game that will allow you to explore more of the 
 area.
  
  Quests are the second thing they changed in this game. There are a lot of quests, and each Act 
 is broken down into a series of chapters, with sidequests that you don't have to complete along 
 the way. You are more likely to advance quicker if you stick with foes who are just slightly tougher 
 than you are, so you are not very likely, unless the first version, to master several levels of 
 a particular class in a few short minutes. The other thing is that Dungeon Siege 2 goes out of 
 its way to discourage you from multiclassing. You level only in areas that you are actively level. 
 Also, your strength, dexerity, and intelligence scores are really nerfed. Do not be surprised if 
 by your 15 level you're already have a score in the triple digits. This is why the interface is 
 a little more cumbersome than in the past. I'm not sure all of this is really necessary.
  
  Eyecandy is a mixed bag. The environment graphics and general overall music score and sounds are 
 fabulous. If nothing else, they nailed how should water react and look. Stop and pause when you 
 enter into an area where there's water rushing or a waterfall. I know, it sounds silly, but that 
 is the jaw-dropping aspect of this game. The movies are very well done as well, particularly the 
 intro movie. If it wasn't for your map and your mouse, you will miss the chance to pick up hidden 
 loot and secret doors. The characters are alright, but they are really small and they look a bit 
 weak on their own. I think this is a homage to the Diablo or Balder's Gate games of yore. In fact, 
 when you start up a new character, your character is not going to look very flattering. Interestingly 
 enough, you can play as one of four races: humans, elves, dryads (female only) and half-giants 
 (male only) . The voice-overs for these games are the same ones you hear for the original one. They 
 don't sound as good. 
  
  Dungeon Seige II is a bit tougher than the original. You still can't get away from the fact that 
 you will fall asleep hacking and slashing your way to victory in this quest. And I do wish they 
 were a bit bolder in making this a distinctly different feel than the last time. It is distinctive 
 graphics wise, but it is still keeps fairly familiar parts of the game that links it to its past 
 game. And yet, this mixed bag does not seem to attract me as well as before. Maybe the game should 
 have tried to be more innovative? Maybe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HUSS06
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 5, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Those of you who enjoy the play styles of Diablo won't be disappointed but in this gamer's opinion, 
 if this game was released when games like Diablo were considered state of the art it would've been 
 an amazing success. The music tracks are so similar you could swear it's the same song playong 
 over and opver again! I mean for a game released in 2005! The year of Fable, X Men 2: Legend of 
 Apocalypse, Star Wars: KotOR 2! Need I go on? This game, [which was in development for 2 years 
 before it's release] doesn't show it's full potential! Again no offense to those of you who enjoy 
 the clicking RPGs or to Gas Powered Games... Hopefully you end up enjoying it more than I do and 
 don't make the mistake of buying it right away... Make your friends buy it instead and try it out... 
 So that way, no loss! ; ) Just kidding... But DO get a clear idea before making rash decisions 
 and buying because it ain't cheap! All I can say is WAY overrated and in my opinion just not worth 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huevo_Feo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  This game is great for rpg lovers. If you have had any experiance with diablo 2 and liked it, you 
 will probably love this game. The graphics are great, hundreds of different weapons, huge enviroments, 
 and enough side quests to get hooked into playing this game for days at a time. When you do finally 
 complete it of course, you have the option to continue into a harder mode of play with the same 
 character which obviously increases the length and enjoyability of this game. You will also find 
 yourself creating new characters try going through the game with a diffenetly skills. And beating 
 the whole game through on all difficulties with 2-3 characters (or more) is several hundred hours 
 of gameplay. really I could go on and on about how great of a game this is, so i'll try to point 
 out where i felt it could have been improved. The tech tree was probably my biggest concern, not 
 that its set up bad or anything, but when you reach level 20 in any skill you cannot get any higher, 
 which didn't bother me, it was the fact that if your level 18 in a skill, and you have a set that 
 has +5 to skills, your level will still only be at 20. It would have been nice if you could go 
 past the 20 make with equipment bonuses. especialy scine early in the game you wont have many and 
 you'll have to get most of your skills to level 18 (early in the game you'll usually find +2 skill 
 equipment) but then when you get +6 skill equipment later in the game, well that was a waste of 
 4 skill points in each area, because now you would only need it at level 14 to have the acctual 
 max level of 20... wow sorry If I've confused anyone... Thats really my only complaint... So, I'd 
 recomend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WindowlessHouse
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  At first glance, Dungeon Siege II has a very contrived story and pretty generic dungeon hack game 
 play. The meeting of a sword and a shield cause the end of an age, shattering the shield in the 
 process. A thousand years later the ultimate bad guy, Valdis, locates the sword, bringing about 
 a new era of strife. Not only this, but the shields pieces are conveniently scattered across the 
 lands of Aranna for you the player to find in order to stop him. From this basic premise, a complex 
 and deep action role-playing game evolves.
  
  DS2s character customization looks similar to the genres predecessors, however it handles completely 
 differently. There are only four archetypes from which to choose, but each of them has several 
 different subsets to pick from. The classes are: melee, ranged, combat magic, and nature magic. 
 For example, a melee character can either be a tank with a shield, a two-handed sword-swinging 
 barbarian, or a duel-wielding wave of destruction. You level up your skills by using the proper 
 weapon types. When characters level they earn skill points to place into skill trees, which are 
 a set of passive abilities that make the character stronger automatically. By choosing certain 
 sets of skills (the game tells you which ones) your character acquires powers, which can do large 
 chunks of damage in a single blast. Powers can also buff the party for a short duration, or focus 
 monsters attention on characters that can absorb damage. 
  
  In the game, you can acquire up to six characters at the highest difficulty setting, but limited 
 to four at the beginning. Complexity arises when deciding which archetypes and subsets you want 
 to mix and match for each of the characters to create the ultimate party. On top of all this, instead 
 of running around with people, the party can be composed of pets. Pets take up character slots 
 and have their own unique powers. The types of items they are fed fuel their development. Feeding 
 them shields will raise their strength and armor ratings.
  
  There is a ton of loot in DS2 and it needs attention, because poor itemization can lead to a weak 
 party of characters. The game has unique items, set items, rare items, magic items, and regular 
 items. It is a very familiar system. There is also a reagent system that allows players to enchant 
 items with stats they wish. The most useful of these enchants raises the chance to find magic items.
 
  
  Where the overarching quest story fails, there is an enormous and highly developed back-story to 
 be found in the lore of the game. This can be found in books, or explained by historians located 
 in each of the games three cities. There is no questioning as to where a group of monsters come 
 from, or why certain actions in the past affect the present. There are also many side quests you 
 can choose to do beyond the main story that further add value to the game. Some of them are very 
 well written and held my interest due to their own merit, especially one that involves the ghost 
 of a servant exploring why he was murdered. Side quests are also some of the best places for acquiring 
 the best loot. 
  
  The music is wonderfully composed and every piece represents its respective location or situation. 
 The overall level design is highly detailed and is one of the best features of the game. Boss battles 
 are tactical, fun, and have good lead-ins with some cool, deep voices for the baddies. The way 
 the battles are spaced out is expertly designed to give a sense of progression. At one point the 
 party faces off against one powerful boss that takes forever to kill. Later on when the party is 
 stronger, it gets to face three of those same bosses simultaneously and it is satisfying to crush 
 the three easier than the one.
  
  One of the main problems with this game, just as the GameSpot review pointed out, is that after 
 one figures out the various game mechanics it becomes too easy. The higher difficulty levels add 
 more health and damage to the monsters, but since they scale up disproportionately with your characters, 
 the worst thing they can do us take another minute to kill. Another problem is some horrid voice 
 acting by some of the supporting cast. Some of the features are not as powerful as they sound on 
 paper, such as the pet system described earlier and the limited usefulness of the reagent system.
 
  
  DS2 has a mature rating because of gore. When characters apply a percentage of damage over an enemys 
 health the creature explodes into a million satisfying chunks, leaving trails of blood and body 
 parts on the ground. There are also many locales populated with casualties as part of the backdrop. 
 There is no cursing or sexual themes to be found.
  
  I have not played the online component of DS2. However, the single player is good enough to recommend 
 playing a few times and more-so if you want to be prepared for the expansion coming out soon. For 
 those that enjoy online, there is even more value to be found here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomi_Nakamoto
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  This is the sequel from the first Dungeon Siege! I was hoping so much from this sequel,  
 was disappointed at last! Why? The gameplay is still the same, from the first one although this 
 sequel is more complicated, not too different from the first one!
  
  OK, for the graphics is real amazing, but the graphics is too detail and make the character itselh 
 hardly to explore the world. U'll found ur character is hard to move to the edge of every path, 
 u also can really obvious abot the path in this game. U must lok carefully to choose where is the 
 right path u can across.
  
  Salute for the Graphic! Not the gameplay!
  
  The Story is too linear, u accept quest finnish it and receive award, what u have to do is finish 
 the main quest and u'll clear the game! But u can also finish the second quest and receive award 
 from it!
  
  Well......... If u looking for RPG with good graphic not the gameplay just try Dungeon Siege 2! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnoel809
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 4, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a huge RPG fan, though I've played some of the more well-known ones (Diablo, Diablo 2, 
 the first Dungeon Siege and the expansion) .
  
  I enjoyed the first Dungeon Siege, though it did seem to play itself at times. When I read about 
 the improvements to DS2, I figured I should try it. I've been addicted to it for the last couple 
 of weeks, playing it every spare minute (when I really should have been doing work for school) .
 
  
  The quests (and sub-quests) and varied and interesting. Some are long and drawn-out, others are 
 finished rather quickly and simply. Even after I finished the main quest (so basically the game 
 was over) , I found myself still wanting to go back and tie up loose ends with some of the secondary 
 quests.
  
  While I was killed a few times early on (and then again right towards the end) , the system they 
 have worked out for respawining doesn't penalize you all that much. You've got a couple of choices 
 in that area.
  
  Now I can eagerly await DS3 (though I think I've already read about an expansion for DS2 that's 
 in the works) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RanXer0x
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 1, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Imagine for a second that you are playing the original Dungeon Siege.. Lounging back in your computer 
 chair, not really caring about much of anything except having a good time and enjoying the nice 
 graphical surroundings.
  
  Imagine now, that this world has just become complicated in it's quest objectives, stopped you 
 from hiring all of your party until going through the game 2 times, and crashed more times than 
 when you turned around to grab a nice cool one from that ice box beside you. Add on to the fact 
 that the surroundings are starting to seem a little less inspired..
  
  This is how you will feel marching from Dungeon Siege to the sequel, DS2.
  
  My advise? Save 
 your money, buy something like WOW and move on. Your once loved bundle of joy has now become a 
 crack addict with the desire of killing any love you have had for it, before this change. It's 
 grueling, and it's just about as horrible as a movie created by Uwe Boll. 
  
  Except that the game meant well, and wasn't made by some Doctor out to make a quick buck. Well, 
 maybe the former. Well,. Eh, whatever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KycooGhost
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  It was well put together but still has that non realistic quality about it. It may one day compete 
 with WoW but not yet. If Gas Powered Games keeps coming out with these than they will eventually 
 get to be what Blizzard is now. It does have good potential for the future. Other than that I think 
 that it is a really good game. Just like Dungeon Siege 1 and Legends of Arana. I don't think that 
 it was really worth the wait though. Slightly over ratted when it came out but not too bad. Give 
 feed back on what is posted guys/girls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  The addition of the skill tree is bliss for the RPG gamer. It was something I didn't miss in Dungeon 
 Siege, but when I got my hands on Dungeon Siege 2 and aw the skill tree much like Diablo 2's (but 
 better) makes me wonder how I played a trillion hours of DS original.
  Running through the game collecting the best of the best rare items. It's a game that is as fun 
 as Diablo 2 to run through.
  The story is more intense than the orginal for sure and has a cool set of amazing bosses.
  
 
  :Bad Idea:
  This was a big fat issue that really messed up a lot of people's characters (including mine) . 
 Before the patch (and in some cases, after) , the game would crash your character and you couldn't 
 play him online or over LAN. Really, really annoying.
   The graphics aren't bad at all but they don't seem to be a huge improvement. The mouths on the 
 characters don't move and the main menu will not go in a resolution higher than 640x480 or 800x600 
 with low resolution textures.
  Not enough (if any) mods out there, even after a year of release.
  
  :Overall:
  Just a 
 plain great game. It's addicting and fun. Minus the few bugs, it's a perfect game for any fan of 
 Diablo or the hack-n-slash games. My recommendation if you're slowly waiting for Diablo III to 
 be released. You may even like this more, like I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  diablo template? thats right, this game is diablo except with more people in your party... dont 
 believe me? oh you got *waypoints* where you can go back to town anytime you want.... first parts 
 of the game... jungle/desert... to all you diablo 2 fanboys, sound familiar? but because it does 
 copy from diablo thats where its so fun I guess... BUT with a crap story, and crap graphics (they 
 look 4 years old, when its not even a year old) really crap out the graphics, diablo 2 wasnt great, 
 but anyone could play it, on a crap PC or on dial-up, my 3 year old PC cant run it at medium graphics, 
 and that PC is good, when this game looks like it could run on a Pentium 1, if you MUST have a 
 clicker, then get this, but stick with Diablo 2... this game COULD get recommended IF it was say... 
 15$.... because it looks like one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilmc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a good diablo clone that will satisfy you until the next revolutionary "Diablo" 
 look no further than Dungeon Siege 2! Dungeon Siege 2 is the sequal to the awe-inspiring dungeon 
 siege, which is what many would say a clone of the famous diablo series, which is what Dungeon 
 Siege really is; its just a clone. But its a clone done right and well. Dungeon Siege offers plenty 
 of loot and may require several hours of grinding. There are plenty of creatures to kill and a 
 satisfying storyline that can entertain you. The voice acting is mediocore, but the music and sound 
 effects create a realiztic world full of fantasy. Jeremy Soule, who also composed the music to 
 Neverwinter nights and Guild Wars does a terrific job creating a medieval/fantasy theme to the 
 Dungeon Siege series. The graphics in Dungeon Siege can't compare to some of the newer games such 
 as Oblivion and Guild Wars, but it does look quite good for a game which is almost a year old. 
 Dungeon Siege 2 (DS 2) is a subgenre which many people have forgotten, very few are playing now 
 but i can see a rise in Action RPG's now. Titan Quest is another game i look forward too. if you 
 need a different kind of RPG this is the one for you, with all those MMO's and Turn based RPG's 
 out there its nice to pick a simple to play RPG which it a nice change of pace. If you love Diablo 
 this game is satisfying until Diablo 3 comes out... if it ever comes out. 
  This is my first hack and slash RPG since diablo, the genre died for me after Diablo 2 and i never 
 touched it since. With so many new MMORPG's and Final Fantasy turn based clone RPG's, Dungeon Siege 
 2 offers an incredible experience, one that i personally haven't touched in a long time. Dungeon 
 Siege is an overall good game that i highly recommend to all those hardcore RPG fans. Dungeon Siege 
 overall is one of the best Diablo clone i've played in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawkeye2272
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I played the original Dungeon Siege and it was good, but it held some major gameplay issues. I'm 
 pleased to say that most if not all of these were addressed in some way in Dungeon Siege 2 and 
 it shows. The game begins with a cleverly placed tutorial and even a helpful sidekick to help you 
 understand the main aspects of the game. It leads you through the different party formations, combat 
 skills, and creature types. When you get into the main game, you are restricted some at first (because 
 of the story) but soon you will have free reign to game pretty much anywhere up to the point you're 
 at in the storyline. This means you can easily backtrack to finish some sidequests if that one 
 dungeon is just a little too hard. Travel is also made easy by spreadout teleporters. All you have 
 to do is walk near them to activate for later use. The graphics, while not phenominal, are a great 
 step up from the original and since you won't be playing at eye level with the characters, they 
 don't really need to be amazing. The gameplay itself makes up for it. I only have two complaints 
 with Dungeon Siege 2. One is the story. While I enjoyed the story and was really drawn in, they 
 left it hanging in a big way and instead brought that last section of the story in as the soon 
 to-be-here Dungeon Siege 2: Broken World expansion. They should have added this to the original 
 or atleast tied it up a little better. The other complaint is with the characters. The original 
 8 character party has been cut to 4. I know that everywhere else it says 6, but that's only in 
 Elite difficulty. The first time you play through you may only have 4, then 5 on the next difficulty, 
 and finally 6 at the hardest and highest level difficulty. I would have liked to tried out more 
 of the characters without having to play through it several times, especially with the same character. 
 Other than that it is an amazing game. I recommend it to anyone who liked the previous DS game, 
 or really to any fan of RPGs. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MALDRICH-7719
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  For the most part, the graphics work well, although there are a few camera glitches. Deal with 
 it. Relax and have some fun with this one.
  
  The story isnt anything grandiose or ground-breaking, but they at least bothered to write a script 
 and to try to tell a fun, mystical story from another world. The acting is good, and the day/night 
 system adds some fun dynamics.
  
  The graphics are cool, and the music never gets in the way of the story. As a softy, I have to 
 admit that there were a few misty-eyed moments with all that dramatic music and poignant subplots. 
 Hey, its way you plunk down your bucks in order to buy this kind of game to begin with  you WANT 
 to feel something during and after the story.
  
  The dynamics are fine, but very traditional. Personally, I love a good dungeon crawl, and cannot 
 stand that Jak and Daxter crap. As someone with MS, I want to envelope myself in the story, not 
 the speed of the twitch sequences. For those of us with disabilities, we cant play twitch games, 
 which is why we love RPGs where the authors actually bothered to write a story for us. We may 
 not be the fastest fingers on the controller pad, but were damn good at those logic puzzles.
 
  
  I hope that everyone has a good romp at Dungeorn Seize, and that there will be more to come. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo431
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Anyone who is familiar with the game Diablo 2, which i'm sure is pretty much everyone, should try 
 this game out for a while. This game is very addicting. There are different races, male or female, 
 you can customize your character a little bit, and then you choose how you want your character 
 to develop.
  
  This game is surprisingly like an updated Diablo 2 game. The graphics are 3D though, which brings 
 it closer to the fururistic version. Amazing graphics, and of course, glowing weapons. If you've 
 played those MMORPG games, you know how long and hard you have to work to get through and finally 
 find a glowy weapon. Well, in this game you can get them pretty early. Almost any magical in this 
 game glows.
  
  So you have your choice of classes for this game. You can mix it up a little and have multiple 
 classes, or one specific class. So.. You're able to be a primary warrior, and have a little bit 
 of combat magic (which shoots flames and fireballs and summons some pets) and make yourself a customized 
 class. Or you can just go through the whole thing hacking and slashing with a sword or firing with 
 a bow. 
  
  Of course, for everyone who has played Dungeon Siege one, you will feel right at home. This game 
 is a lot like it, except for a few changes, most of them are good in my opinion. The updated graphics 
 of course would be a positive thing. But then there's the new way to fight combat. In Dungeon Siege 
 1, you used to just click on an enemy and attack away. In this game, you have to keep right clicking 
 or hold down the right mouse button to attack, just like diablo. You can change the setting to 
 be like the old dungeon siege combat, but I prefer this way more.
  
  Also, another unique feature will be the exploring in this game. Instead of just walking around 
 all over the place searching for where to go next, this game has specific paths that you follow, 
 and sometimes signs that point you to where you're travelling to next. You can always veer off 
 the path and find new caves to explore, sometimes you'll find magic items in them too.
  
  Well, what I think about the game... It beats Diablo 2. I have been addicted to it for a long time, 
 and I think something finally comes out and takes it's place. The game is more fun when travelling 
 around with a friend, but what game isn't? Free online play too, just like Diablo. I recommend 
 this game for anyone that likes RPG games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: protossdragoon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  this is the first time i played this kind of game and i loved it! the game starts out when u are 
 a mercenary for Vladas who is the Evil Prince that took the Sword (which i forgot the "special" 
 name for it) and now seeks to end the current age and make a new age of his own. the shield (which 
 is um... i guess the Light side's weapon has been shattered into four peices and guess what, its 
 your job to find them. storyline aside, the gameplay is preety good considering this is the first 
 time i played this type of click to attack combat system. stil it dosen't detract from the action. 
 it may be repetative but as u get new weapons and powers, gameplay becomes more exciting. graphics 
 are also very impressive in all detailed and u can zoom to your character and see every item u 
 have equipped to him/her. sound is also impressive and even though the mouth dosen't move, when 
 u *get* the plague, all the people in town have their own reaction to u. even the shop keepers!! 
 overall, i liked this game and i am looking forward to the expansion. i find myself loading each 
 save again when all my characters die and i want to keep playing. the quest are also quite reasonable 
 and u can explore more of the world. overall, i liked this game and i am looking forward to the 
 expansion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bytesponge
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  One of the best games I have played lately!!! When will MS release the next version? The game is 
 very linear! I think you would miss a lot of the harder to find passages and also other gameplay 
 without some kind of game guide!
  You build attributes as you progress thru the game and can gain additional qualities by replaying 
 some of the completed segments! Great game! I think some of the weapons you pick up along the way 
 are pretty worthless in some cases, but if you look everywhere you may be surprised by what you 
 find as far as weapons, health, treasures, and monsters! You have the tendency to keep playing 
 to all hours so you don't miss anything, or catch up on where you were when you get back to playing 
 again! It'a a herd one to put down and walk away from!
  Bytesponge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixan_akrau
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I just recently picked up this game for about $30, and here's generally what I thought about it.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Okay, I install the game, and I'm greeted by a very ugly menu. I was expecting to see something 
 spectacular and eye-dazzling like in the original game (Hey! Those metal doors and revolving buttons 
 with the sparks flying everywhere were cool!) , but instead, you're greated by a red flaming battlefield 
 with a few ugly buttons and your save game marker on the right. Not too impressive this time. I 
 was basically thinking, "What the hell are you people doing? You had the menus down last time!"
 
  
  But then, you actually play the game, and it's by far improved from the original! The characters 
 look so much better now, and the running animations aren't as awkward anymore, which was actually 
 something that really bugged me about the original game. Also, they added in some more details 
 with the spells, and all of the weapons are so much like "the same thing only stronger." I'm not 
 saying there's not entirely that anymore, it's just not so apparent in this game.
  
  Sound:
  The music is great as usual, but some of the things have been recycled from the original, 
 which I found a little strange. I was hoping to hear new tracks to go with this game. Here's an 
 example: in one of the first missions you go on, the song from the final boss fight for the Seck 
 Leader Gom in the original Dungeon Siege plays. The sound effects are actually better than the 
 original and they add so much more to the atmosphere.
  
  Gameplay:
  Your basic hack-and-slash elements are still there, which have gotten boring in the original; however, 
 there's some more puzzle and memorization elements around the game, which improves things by far. 
 In the original, there actually weren't that many puzzle elements in the game, and it was mostly 
 fighting. Very big improvement. There also aren't so many issues with getting the other characters 
 to do things you want to do, and there's so much more control over leveling up your character. 
 You also have more than just the original four classes involved, which allows for varying types 
 of archers, mages, warriors, etc.
  
  Story:
  There's a little bit more depth and tid-bits in this story, and OH, MY GOD! Your character has 
 just learned how to talk! That's one thing that was missing from the original that needed to be 
 implemented slightly into places. Anyways, it's like the original where the story will develop 
 more as you play, and it has your usual, "someone's trying to destroy towns and take over the world 
 with a weapon/spell" set-up, but it's not that bad.
  
  Overall:
  If you've played and liked the original, you'll like this game even more in some aspects. They 
 cleaned up a lot of the issues and annoyances in the first game and made it not as bland. Though 
 there are some things I've missed from the original's LOA expansion, such as the one-click arrangement 
 of potions among all your party members and the downloadable level editor. Maybe those will come 
 in the future at some point for this game though when it's expansion comes along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 30, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Well i was in question when i got this game. I had no idea if it was going to be good or not. I 
 had heard really mixed reviews about it. So i installed and loaded it up and immediatly i thought 
 "O crap, this is going to suck." Why? Because the menu looks horrible. Like a pile of demon poo. 
 Not kidding. However, i loaded up a singleplayer and started out in the tree top village. didnt 
 seem too bad. but this was before we lanned it. when we all installed it, and started a multiplay 
 game, wow. it was a blast. image diablo 2 in 3D! they have tons of weird items and a butt load 
 of mosters to kill. its deifntly not a dissapointment.
  the only real downer is that its quite linear. you cant just go out exploring, but they slightly 
 compensated with mutiple paths and side areas. The quest system, is ok, there arent a ton of secondary 
 quests, but luckily the main quest is long and difficult.
  the interface is nice and once u get used to it, can be a good system to work with. overall, a 
 good RPG for the moeny (or time) and a recommendation by me. have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fred6655
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  The problem with the monsters in dungeon siege 2 is that there are way to many. When you are going 
 through a cave there might be 20 monsters in there and some are quite powerful. Most of time you 
 would die and then have to fight the with your other stuff that you had in your inventory. This 
 means that you will have bad stuff to fight the monsters that killed you with your best stuff. 
 They are also usually a teleporter, so if you die you have to go through the entire level again 
 which is incredibly annoying. it also means that you have to fight all the monsters that have respawned. 
 That is one of the only problems with dungeon siege. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidi1234
Rating: 5
Date: May 21, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  I don't know who they have for game designers down at Gas Powered games, but it might as well be 
 my grandma. I can sincerely say that i have not found one item to like in this game... ugly ugly 
 and ugly again. From the huge zig-zag ice swords, to the robes that look more like drag queen outfits 
 the better an item gets, the worse it looks.
  
  I was expecting a lot more when they promised a more complex class system, more than 2 or 3 powers 
 and some skills that don't really do anything spectacular. It's still the boring hack and zap that 
 the first one was, with the same unending swarms of monsters that get really aggravating further 
 on in the game when you have to fight for every inch of road in order to advance.
  
  To tell you the truth, the only thing that saves the game is the coop multi player. I would not 
 even go close to this game in SP.
  
  The party system is stupid, the AI inexistent ( they just stay and die like dummies) so you just 
 end up playing on your own, which in coop mode with 2 people makes the game extremely easy.
  
  Really guys don't try this at home... no really, don't! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege 2 is a worth sequel to Dungeon Siege and it's expansion Legends of Aranna. I found 
 it to be as fun and enjoyable as the previous games.
  
  Notable new features include chants, skills (as well as stats which ioncrease on leveling you get 
 a skill point too to spend) , pets (a good variety of them) and expanded weapons (such as the ability 
 to dual wield) .
  
  Graphically it looks better and the plot is much improved over Dungeon Siege (there is now a reasonable 
 plot!) . Quests and sides quests are tracking in your journal (as are many things, such as quest 
 items and chants) .
  
  All in all a great game, I'm looking forward to the expansion pack that will be released shortly!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamekittn
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 17, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  i REALLY LIKED this game.. Im a huge RPG fan i started with EVERQUEST and got into more and more 
 RPG. S .. So all and all its a great game it sometimes can be annoying to have to back track and 
 wait to finish a quest to be able to finish another quest .. Kinda like a chain.... I have been playing 
 here and there for about 2 months now and i am almost done the Game I am at Zaramoths Horns but 
 instead of just finishing the Game half asse* i am back tracking making sure i do all the secondary 
 Quests.. As for armor i Hope they do a better Jobe in BROKEN WORLD because all the armor kinda sucks 
 it doesnt work together very well and they are so scatterted u have to kill eveything you come 
 across and hope it drops a piece to the set u want.. I think you should get pieces from bosses 
 but thats just me.... In conclusion D2 is GREAT if u like RPG'S pick thisone up... ANY QUESTIONS 
 E MAIL ME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comptrex
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 13, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  As graphics improve, and new skills are set, your character becomes a wrecking machine just as 
 in the first one. Inventory management for all party members remains, AI is slightly improved and 
 the gang up on team members seems to focus on the weaker members as well as ranged members. Overall 
 it is still a decent game that could have been so much better. The story starts out encouraging 
 and quickly digresses into the normal go kill and come back quests. Still a good introduction into 
 the RPG genre, but for a more engrossing experience stick to the NWN series.
  
  Character development ---don't balance things out, pick your poison and go for it.
  
  Team AI ---mirror 
 and rampage modes can be a mixed blessing. Use mirror for unique or boss types. Rampage to quickly 
 clear screen.
  
  Loot ---same fanfare. A few more unique and set items, but quirky attributes.
  
  Overall ---DS2 
 is still a good game, especially if you can find it for $30 or less. With new graphics, some new 
 skills, and new effect damage in some areas, it continues to add to the DS series overall without 
 being evolutionary. Depending upon whom takes over the series will determine where it will move 
 too, but for quick and fun hackfest with a hint of RPG elements, like character development, this 
 is a fun introduction for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShotGunBunny
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 1, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about DS 2, the special powers, the improved AI, and especially, the fact that 
 you had to keep clicking/hold down the mouse button while attacking, it may sound stupid, but read 
 on.
  
  My main problem with DS1 was simply that you didn't really do anything, you just clicked the enemy 
 and your char would engage and slaughter him and any other enemies around without you ever having 
 to do anything besides drink a potion now and them. Besides that, the enemies had WAY too much 
 HP but at the same time they were so weak they couldn't really damage you much.
  Combine that with a lots of blank, dark and boring dungeons, and that's DS.
  
  I always thought 
 "How on earth could they be so stupid, this game is supposed to be a Diablo clone but it lacks 
 exactly what made Diablo so great. Which is super fast and super simple action while still being 
 busy all the time, even though it was just clicking and switching skills."
  
  So now DS2 promised to bring both the endless clickfest/holdfest and the skills back into the scene. 
 Now that i've played the game, i can only say that it's gotten worse. The clicking/holding is just 
 as boring as doing nothing, because it's so boring it can also be very annoying to keep holding 
 the mousebuttom while you're trying to stay awake, the powers don't make any difference either, 
 you can only use them every 60 seconds of so, and they're not really that powerful or important.
 
  The real reason why it's worse is not necesarily because of the combat, but because of the small 
 details about DS that still gave it some value.
  
  Those details were, quickly put, bright and colorful outside areas with grand views and a sense 
 of a real journey. DS2 had outside areas, sure, but it didn't exactly have the colorful and beautiful 
 from DS1 and it certainly didn't have the sense of a journey.
  
  So in the end, DS2 is all DS1 was, the boring endless grind through boring endless hordes of monsters 
 in boring endless expanses of dark and lame areas, but minus the occasional good looking outside 
 area which gave DS1 at least something good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brisa22
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 24, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege 2 is a good game. It doesn't really bring anything new to the series.
  
  In the first game you could start over and try something different if you wanted to, but could 
 still go back and play your old game if you felt like it. You could not do this at first in Dungeon 
 Siege 2, though they have fixed that in a patch, so it seems to be alright.
  
  There are new spells, and weapons, and such. These things are always a welcome thing in a new game, 
 and add more to it. Combat is pretty much handled the same was as in the original DS, though the 
 abilities you can learn make it a little different, and even a little harder to get used to, especially 
 when trying to handle more than one character's skill.
  
  Overall Dungeon Siege 2 adds a little to what the original DS did, and makes for a good game to 
 waste some time on.
  
  The new graphics are good, but a fast computer is really needed to make them worthwhile.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormri
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  wooh! take that! no!!! yes! noo! yes, the mana and health potion! take it hive queen!
  oh dear oh dear! yes! that's mine! the third part in lothars legacy set! hooyah!
  
  oh right, 
 sorry about this... well the game is about the evil valdis who is plannnig to conquer erana (the 
 land where you play..) with his mighty sword which destroys all. he is now on a quest to find the 
 mighty shield which he himself shatterd while fighting the chosen one of the good guys..
  
  your job, is to find the four spreaded pieces before valdis does!
  
  the game is a bit revoulutionery 
 in the rpg games, it offers some cool things that are really cool and fun.
  
  like a lot of games there are many side quests, and some of them only grant you a little gols piece, 
 not in dungeon siege!
  for killing a hak'u you may get a wonderful item! (hak'u is one of the most weak monsters in the 
 game) you can find a lot of items (rare ones) everywhere!
  killing a "boss" monster (often called elder and have a glowing circle surrounding it) will grant 
 you a lot of items that later can be sold and make you rich!
  
  you don't choose the class, you become one of this class because of your actions, using a sword 
 most of the time will make ya a squire and later on a soldier and a warior!
  
  there are so many to tell and so little time i've got so the rating wil tell it's own.
  
  bye 
 bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_janus_ex
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  las caracteristicas de los juegos de rol como diablo I Y II o digamos WOW solo permiten el manejo 
 de un solo heroe, lo cual no caracterisa este juego lo interesante de este juego es la opcion de 
 manejar 6 heroes en 
  moo dificil o elite, haciendo que se convierta en una nueva expectativa en los juegos de esta forma, 
 trae varios modelos para los heroes y diferentes armaduras haciendolo entretenido pero muy corto 
 en el momento de jugarlo.
  
  no he intentado el modo multiplayer pero me gusto en single falta no obstante pudieron amplar un 
 poco mas el mapa aunmentar la dificultad es una lastima pudo haber dado mas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neatfeatguy
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Too much hype had built this game up for me. I was expecting the same, if not better, experience 
 for the second installment as the first one provided. I was sadly mistaken on my assumption.
  
  Only difference between the second and first game was the slightly better graphics, even though 
 both games worked off the same graphics engine. And the different story lines.
  
  Trying to target enemies is, not terribly difficult, but annoying at times. Mostly this is due 
 to the camera angles that are provided throughout the game. You will find yourself fighting a little 
 here and there, trying to make things easier to see and manipulate.
  
  The controls are mostly setup as the origianl Dungeon Siege had them mapped out, which makes your 
 transition between the first game and the second one fairly painless.
  
  Voice acting is boring and not entertaining. There really anything worse than having to listen 
 to monotone voices speak off of scripts, other then having to sit in a classroom trying not to 
 fall asleep as your monotone teacher lectures. Also the fact that they story line is not very interesting 
 does not help the poor voice acting.
  
  There was no improvement on how the skill tree works in Dungeon Siege II, over Dungeon Siege. You 
 are still very much limited to having to train in either melee, ranged or magic. If you do not 
 heavily train in any single class, you will have troubles advancing your character enough to wear 
 better armor and use better weapons. This very aspect was the only downfall to the first Dungeon 
 Siege and it should have been corrected in the second one.
  
  If you are a true diehard fan of the origianl Dungeon Siege, I do suggest that you pick up the 
 second installment and play through. Also, if you are a diehard hack'n'slash fan, pick this game 
 up as well. For anyone else, I strongly suggest that you find a demo or a cheap copy (which might 
 not be a problem, since the game has been out a while) . Or you may just end up feeling the way 
 that I did after I spent way more then I should have on this game.... disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy27
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Good Idea:
  Awesome Diablo 2 style setup with a very well-done skill tree.
  Great looking game and equally sound.
  No load times (almost) .
  
  Bad Idea:
  Some of 
 the original Dungeon Siege features are excluded, including PVP and a very high level cap.
  High system requirments to run smooth.
  A few bugs with the multiplayer coding.
  
  Overall:
 
  A really addicting and well-done game. Bravo to Gas Powered games for another terrific action-RPG. 
 If you're a fan of Diablo, this is your alternative fan.
  
  --------------------------------------------
  
  I got the original Dungeon Siege, and although 
 it wasn't a perfect game, it came close to the addictive action-RPG, Diablo. In ways, it blew it 
 away and was a very deep game. Also, it was more than a basic dungeon crawler. It was huge! As 
 a matter of fact, Diablo 2 didn't look good after I played this. Not at all. Dungeon Siege 2 actually 
 makes me think that Microsoft/Gas Powered Games are after the throne for the action-RPG throne 
 currently held by Diablo 2.
  
  In Dungeon Siege 2, you begin a short tutorial on how to actually play the game. It's pretty nice 
 and easy to run through to get some decent XP, although all the weapons you'll collect will be 
 useless since you lose them after the tutorial. Afterwards, you have to break free out of prison 
 by doing quests given by the guards of the elf town you're in. The game's story is very cool and 
 leads you on a very open linear game to Act boss to Act boss. The graphics are awesome, but with 
 total awesomeness comes total lagness. I have a pretty pimp system (see my profile) and I get pretty 
 good frames, never going below 30fps but before, when I had a really pimp yesterday system, it 
 ran pretty bad at times. Mainly when a ton of enemies and magic was going on in a scene. The graphics, 
 if you can handle it, are done really well for this type of genre. The only other thing that bugged 
 me about the graphics are the chracter models (not the monsters) . When watching cinemas, it's obvious 
 that the mouths are not animatd to move with the words. Not even a little. It's a textured body, 
 which kind of sucked when I first saw it. Speaking of, the sounds and voice work is really good. 
 The sounds of body parts hitting walls is just pure magic to a graphic gamer's ears. I really like 
 how the sounds come alive with the visuals. The blend perfectly to make a harmony of visual/audio 
 gameplay.
  
  The gameplay is very simple. It's set up just like any other action-RPG. You have a quick bar; 
 you have your backpack; you hold right click to attack. It's easy. If you've never played an action-RPG, 
 it's just easy to jump right into it and figure everything out. The thing you may be confused over 
 is your power attacks/spells. When you charge a move, you hit the number key that flashes and bam, 
 you have a mighty, mighty attack or powerup. It's great and helps add onto the depth of the game. 
 The skill tree addition is very nice too, which basically means you can create a warrior totally 
 different from any other warrior out there. So the character class is a ton more impressive. The 
 drawbacks are there, but few. For one, the multiplayer coding seems to be a bit flawed. After working 
 my way up to a level 80 warrior, my character became corrupted and wouldn't play online anymore. 
 It sucks because I had went through the game a few times and collected an impressive aresnal of 
 swords and axes. They have a patch for this but I played after patching. Maybe the GameSpy network 
 is better to prevent corruption? I won't know until I play again. The game is long but not near 
 as long as the original Dungeon Siege. It's about as long as Diablo 2 though. Some people really 
 don't care about how long a game like that is because the real addiction is rushing through the 
 game and collecting rare items. I rather liked having a long multi-pathed Dungeon Siege and was 
 a tad disappointed in that. The only other thing that sucks is the lack of Player Vs. Player. My 
 big thing was getting in a group and killing off the smartellic kids and taking their items. So 
 it was more of a "protect your own" type co-op gameplay. You would have to pick your allies wisely.
 
  
  Overall, I think anyone that likes action or leveling up should get this game. It's a very addicting 
 game and easy to jump into and with a expansion on the horizon, you'll sure to have more fun coming 
 your way.
  
  --------------------------------------------
  
  Violence:
  Loads of blood and gore. You can filter this off.
  
  Sexuality:
  None.
  
  Language:
 
  Very minor words.
  
  Substance Use:
  Drinking mana might be offensive to some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  GAME STATS
  RELEASE DATE : August 16 2005
  COMPANY : Microsoft Game Studios, Gas Powered Games
  LEARNING CURVE : Beginner ~ Novice ~ Expert
 
  
  Dungeon Siege 2, another product from the Microsoft stables, is exactly the kind of game that you'd 
 expect from the biggest computer name in history. Microsoft Game Studios, with Gas Powered Games, 
 released this Action RPG on August 16, 2005, and let me tell you, this game is worth your resources...
 
  
  The game, in effect, is pretty similar to Diablo and Neverwinter Nights. There is the standard 
 save-the-world-from-all-evil storyline, there is a "plague" that you have to save the people from, 
 and there are the myriad weapons and spells and potions, and even the combat classes are pretty 
 much the same, but the similarity ends there...
  
  Unlike pervious RPGs, DS2 offers you something different: character class flexibility. Normally, 
 you would choose from the four standard classes - Fighter, Ranger, Combat Magic, Nature Magic - 
 and stick to those throughout the game. Meaning that if you were a Fighter, you couldn't know what 
 the other classes are all about. DS2 ends this insane injustice...
  You don't even have to select a primary class. Throughout the game, you can use the basic Melee 
 and Ranger weapons, and the basic Combat or Nature spells. But as you choose one discipline over 
 the other, you eventually get better at it. This is very practical; Microsoft is very smart like 
 that. Eventually, if you become a Level 40 Fighter, then you can still start using spells and take 
 your character to a, say, a Level 10 Combat Mage. This is really interesting. You don't have to 
 stick to a class and follow it, but you can change your class dynamically during the course of 
 the game. DS2 provides many opportunities for you to do this. Obviously, as you get better at a 
 particular character class, you can upgrade your character and use better weapons/spells. But, 
 again, it's not advised to choose multiple disciplines unless you want an "average" character that's 
 good enough at everything, but "the best" at nothing...
  
  One more thing that DS2 brings for your gaming pleasure: pets! You can choose from around 8 to 
 10 pets, from a Lap Dragon to a Dire Wolf, and various others, and these pets upgrade with your 
 main character! And get this: if you feed your pet lots of fighter weapons and shields, it's strength 
 and hit points increase. When you first buy a pet, it's character level is the same as yours, and 
 whatever you feed it, it will benefit from that. Different pets have different disciplines. For 
 example, the Scorpian Queen is good at Ranged attacks, the Dire Wolf is good at Melee fighting. 
 Here's a list of pets:
  
  Dark Naiad (Nature Mage)
  Dire Wolf (Fighter)
  Fire Elemental (Combat Mage)
  Ice Elemental (Nature Mage)
  Lap Dragon (Nature Mage)
  Light 
 Naiad (Nature Mage)
  Mythrilhorn (Fighter)
  Necrolithid (Combat Mage)
  Pack Mule (Fighter)
  Scorpion Queen (Ranger)
  A review of this game won't be complete without 
 mentioning... the cut-scenes! They're exquisite. They will slow your game down if you have a PC 
 that just meets the system requirements, but not that much. The graphics are astonishing, the game 
 play is smooth, the interface is unbelievably convenient. The only down side of this game is the 
 voice acting, which could have been better. All through the game, you think that a character with 
 such and such capabilities will have a voice like this or like that, and in the end, you're terribly 
 disappointed. The worst voice actings were for, unfortunately, the most important characters of 
 the game, namely, the Archmage of Valdis, and Valdis himself.
  
  Here's an overall rating, just to help you out:
  GAME PLAY : 9/10
  VOICE ACTING : 9/10
  CUT 
 SCENES : 9/10
  INTERFACE : 8/10
  
  One warning: Fighters will be disappointed as far as the weapons go. They're all really good, but 
 I still haven't found a weapon that can match Neverwinter Nights' Dagger of Chaos. The only weapons 
 that does beat the Dagger is the Sword of Zaramoth in DS2, but you don't get to use it.
  
  What's my overall advice? Play this game at least once. Microsoft doesn't leave much scope for 
 Multiplayer because, as far as I've heard, DS2 doesn't have any new maps for Multiplayer, but there 
 are a lot of good mods out there that are really good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necrovian
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege 2, is a decent game, even though it doesn't really bring anything new to the series. 
 It pretty much plays like the original Dungeon Siege, but with a couple things that are rather 
 annoying. 
  
  First of all, when the game originally came out, you could not have more than one game saved, and 
 that is what was so great about the original Dungeon Siege. You could start over and try something 
 different if you wanted to, but could still go back and play your old game if you felt like it. 
 You could not do this at first in Dungeon Siege 2, though they have fixed that in a patch, so it 
 seems to be alright.
  
  Good things about the game, include that there are new spells, and weapons, and such. These things 
 are always a welcome thing in a new game, and add more to it. Combat is pretty much handled the 
 same was as in the original DS, though the abilities you can learn make it a little different, 
 and even a little harder to get used to, especially when trying to handle more than one character's 
 skill. 
  
  Overall DS 2 adds to what the original DS did, and makes for a decent game to waste some time on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  DS2... ill just put down the good and bad.
  
  good: improved on graphics and on the world... character graphics also a tad-bit improved along 
 with secondary (quests) and then your primary... more treasure and secrets... and ok gameplay... 
 and you choose what to say to others around you.
  
  bad: now for the bad... could have improved on the voice speaking... and a few others things aswell... 
 for example more races to acess like in DS: where there was humans skeleton dwarf ... and on: in 
 this one doesint matter online or not... only human dryad elves half-giant... maybe its to the 
 whole story of DS2: but i think they should have added 2 more for online play
  
  there may be alot more of the GOOD or BAD to DS2: but this what i have come across so far
  
 
  but wait: the exspansion is coming... and it seems they added a bit more to it... hope-fully they 
 fix up a few things like most of us have put down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  As a hack &amp; slash RPG, Dungeon Siege 2 holds up well enough. But the storyline is pretty weak., 
 nothing like the excellent storyline in Diablo 1 &amp; 2. I like that fact that u can have up to 
 6 party members, but to play thru the game 3 time to get those 6 members....... I'm still considering 
 it. The pets are an interesting addition to your party as u can feed them items and they will grow 
 according to the stuff that u feed them. I like the skill development tree, which levels u based 
 on the skills u use. Graphics is par for the course, its nothing to shout at, just acceptable. 
 And killing enemies gets boring fast as they dnt offer out much of a challenge, even on harder 
 difficulty levels. The game will probably give u a few hrs of enjoyment, then makes u bored as 
 u slash &amp; blast thru endless waves of baddies. A good game? Yes. Dethrone Diablo? No Freaking 
 way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippythezip
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  wanted to like this game as i loved the first games. DS1 had prettier graphics. At times i thought 
 i was playing a game from 5 or 6 years ago, they seem to have a washed out look to them. But what 
 really kills it for me is no way to save and load games like before. i like to save before i enter 
 new places and now you cant. you can die and end up back at a teleportal with no weapons or loot 
 and have to go back and fight barehanded or restart the game. DS1 aslo had a better interface and 
 your party was easier to controll.
  Sorry guys i just uninstalled and gave the game away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  After playing the first Dungeon Siege game, i felt it was time to move on to the next world.
  
  The second game brought out a new adventure with alot more tasks to fulfill.
  The game dynamics 
 was pretty similar to the first one, but with added animations and sharper details to the characters.
 
  
  The game play was more intresting and i found it slighter harder then the first one, this took 
 me a little longer to get into. But also kept me glueded to the game as there was alot more features 
 and items to find.
  
  I found the games at time more annoying especialy when there were areas i could do, due to heaving 
 not that much health, and i had to keep running away from battles just to keep my life going.
 
  Pretty much attack, then flee, attack some more, then flee, fill up everyones life, and then go 
 in for the final fight and then destroy them all.
  And not long after have you killed them, another group might ambush you and then you dont stand 
 a chance in fighting, as if you try to leave, half you men die in battle or whilst your fleeing 
 from battle.
  
  It is a really good game, very addictitive, just some areas in the game are more harder which is 
 good if your up for more of a harder challenge, but there is times when i had to stop the game.
 
  I dont normaly give up, but this game beat me.
  Ive not played it since, but dont get me wrong, its a good game, but just i had to quite while 
 the game was good.
  if you know what i mean.
  
  The first when i found alot easyer, and this second game wakes you up.
  
  The storyline is 
 just as intresting, nice evil demons to keep you fighting for more, but they do carry some good 
 items on them. Once killed be sure to check there bodys out, as they might be carrying gold and 
 jewles.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PregnantDave
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Story: I have to admit at first the story has an interesting premise at first, since start a game 
 off on the other side, but then Dungeon Siege 2s story, like most stacks of cards, and Sony 
 appliances made in the Far East, it begins to fall apart quite rapidly. Mainly to start off, the 
 game seriously drags it heels in story telling mainly because of the sucky pace of the game which 
 explains itself quite clearly by the very nature of the game. Secondly, the game exposes itself 
 to much early on storywise, so you know what you have to do, but you just go why? This is probably 
 compounded with the fact that there are numerous side quests which you could complete, with each 
 individual giving their sob story. Man, do all these people just whine and moan and complain all 
 the time? Cant they sort out something for themselves? Then you crack and dont seem to care anymore. 
 Honestly. I tried to care. In rpgs I pretend to care about someone so I could get some juicy item 
 or reward from it. When you do it in this game, and get extremely paltry rewards, you just shut 
 off. And then the story tries to go somewhere and you just shut your brain off again. Oh wait, 
 its the gameplay seeping in
  
  The story is annoying average. I swear in dialogue the game seems to takes the cow out of itself 
 but in a very imperceptible way. I dont know if it is intentional, but the fact that I saw it, 
 I felt the script writers were sending subliminal messages to me to stop playing the game because 
 I am more intelligent than the average population.
  
  Gameplay: this is the ball-breaker here. This seems like a quite average hack n slash adventure 
 game when you start out. But then its quite different as in its strange, as in its damn awkward. 
 You start of selecting you the class of you character and physical appearance (makes no difference, 
 but it was one of the things that was majorly different from DS1 at first glace) . You can have 
 a character that specialises in particular skills and abilities, be it combat magic, nature magic, 
 which are healing and buff spells mainly, and ranged character or a melee character. Each class 
 has specific bonuses to further increase the skills in your own chosen profession (which isnt 
 predetermined) , causing making your character more effect in battle, but in reality your character 
 can be levelled up anyway you like. You just have to use weapons or spells to gain experience with 
 them, just like the first Dungeon Siege.
  
  To add flavour, there are Abilities, which in turn further specialised your character. For instance, 
 activating a particular Ability allows the use of shields, two handed weapons, or the possibility 
 for dual-wielding. By selecting Ability specials or Skills unlocked allow devastating moves to 
 be performed on your opponents, or exception defensive techniques easing battles, but these take 
 time to recharge after use. This however this doesnt and any intrinsic depth into the game. You 
 run around and kill stuff mainly. Got a quest? Kill some stuff, probably find stuff. Then go back 
 and get some crap reward. You will get bored. The skills are there to make killing quicker and 
 not make the game a drag by giving you pretty screen splashes of colour and bloodied kibble. 
 
  
  The game could be only challenging if you compose your party of all Nature mages with incompatible 
 skills with that class. The main difficultly of the game stems with not the individual characters, 
 but which characters you choose to join your party which makes fights easier, and from those character 
 pick the best skills/abilities. Now, people wouldnt be foolish enough to pick crap skills or skills 
 that dont have synergistic effect with your class. They would pick good ones, but they might miss 
 ones which are so amazing that if they had it, they could breeze through the game.
  
  *cough big geezer, with shield and Provoke ability cough*
  
  As an adventure game, it pretty 
 crap since its a relatively easy game. I played through on single player a bit and it possible 
 to kill some monsters 4 levels higher than you reasonable well to start off with, and even more 
 level difference when you are a higher level. But of course thats by using skill. You want to 
 do it the easy way? Level up. Thats what this game is mainly about really, and collecting rare 
 items. Since this plays a bit like Diablo 2, Im going to say the rare drops in this are far more 
 rewarding than in Diablo 2 because they are realistic when they happen (meaning they happen more 
 often than D2) , and they are more diverse than D2. This is the only good thing about DS2 gameplay. 
 Lovely items. Possible too much as there is all this crap on the ground, you sell it for cash because 
 the items, although special in some way, arent that great, but there is not point of money in 
 the game because the best items are found, and the shops sell mainly crap.
  
  Veritably, the game is far from complex, but were you expecting much from a hack n slash? I dunno, 
 but the puzzles in this game would insult most peoples intelligence. I tried to over complicate 
 things, like strategically forgetting to pick up an item and going back for it, or thinking they 
 were using colours in a metaphorical sense. The puzzle are so bad that they would only challenge 
 the under 5s, and people who are colour blind. I never knew endless backtracking and clicking 
 on hidden poo were puzzle elements. 
  
  They outdid themselves.
  
  The enemies are far too abundant in this game. I go to a new area and all I see are bloody red 
 dots, like my eyes are haemorrhaging. The amount of enemies adds to challenge to the game, and 
 only. This slows the game to a crawl, since you are literally hacking your way to area to area. 
 Maybe Im exaggerating, but the number of monsters was disturbing enough to make me think about 
 the size of their population is too big that it would negatively affect the population due to lack 
 of prey, assuming that they predate animals (they are in the game) and the non monstanious humanoids.
 
  
  Now Im not quite finished. The game gives nice keyboard shortcuts like Z to pick up all stuff 
 on the ground, and your characters will pick up gold and items. There is an auto arrange inventory 
 button (K) which allows you get the extra squeeze into your inventory. But yet, the controls are 
 have little semblance from games of this modicum mediocrity. Right click is attack? There is no 
 hold the button for direction movement, and I have to click everywhere? The AI has gone nuts, and 
 I have only two commands I can issue; Do as I do, or do as you please? Well, I have to say 
 the controls, which are practically petty thought at first, fatigues you quicker than youd think 
 with incessant clicking, and AI not doing anything on odd occasions and you have to run back and 
 get them to do anything, you would think there would be something more substantial than well that?
 
  
  Nope.
  
  The final kick in the nuts, and I wish I thought of it first, is that you could be a Nature mage, 
 have decent combat characters in your party (like melee fighters) , have auto casting healing spells 
 for yourself, and you could practically watch the game. I kid you not, good sir. That is the joke. 
 Now, why did the chicken cross the road?
  
  Music/Sound: The music is quite atmospheric although forgettable, but I noticed most of the sound 
 effects like the rushing waterfalls etc which were quite nicely put and sounded quite right in 
 my headphones in terms of volume, direction, and was crisp sounding. The general sound effects 
 are good, but the voice acting is so wooden that Keanu Reeves *whiplash*
  
  The voices are average, and seem at times lifeless. Some are good in the sense of exceptionally 
 below average, but they started to pain me to listen to them, and I started to skip voices and 
 read the text, which is a habit I dont normally do. Then I skipped dialogues all together because 
 I couldnt give a toss about the game.
  
  I wish the voices were wooden enough so it could get the Wing Chun Wooden Dummy Approval, but there 
 are a few good voices that pull it up from that. Unlucky. Dungeon Siege 2 could have won something, 
 and receive a nice beating too
  
  Graphics: They are very solid. Its nice and very colourful at times, but not too colourful that 
 its overpowering, like strong perfume. Its more subtle than that really. The interface is pretty 
 good, and there are a few camera issues but it all to do with terrain or you character standing 
 to close to a wall that it doesnt make it go transparent, but zooms to your character, and you 
 find it difficult to move out, but that rarely happens.
  
  Hey, it gets a good score in something I suppose.
  
  Conclusion: In conclusion this game is 
 very bad and it confirmed my hate for hack n slash adventure games that go under the pretence 
 of rpg or entertainment for that matter. 
  
  Im extremely disappointed with this game because it is presented very well, and with the time 
 and effort I can visibly see in this title, I cant seem to appreciate anything worth noting. Its 
 nice to look at, and that about it. Gameplay is too bad, and I never finish this game because of 
 the horrible, horrible multiplayer bugs (which are now fixed) that cause you to redo many a quest 
 even though they are marked completed, you need to unlock them again to progress, and its painful 
 to play on your own.
  
  On that note, if this is the type of game you've been looking for, forget it. Get Diablo 2; the 
 much better game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Its a shame that so few hacknslash RPGs are made these days. (MMORPGs are, of course, to blame, 
 but that subject deserves its own article.) Its easy to compare Dungeon Siege 2 to games like 
 World of Warcraft and Everquest 2 in terms of graphics, quests, storylines, and more, but almost 
 immediately after starting youll realize that this is a much more oldschool gameand its a 
 nice change.
  
  The storyline takes place in Aranna, a fictional world, filled with turmoil, war, monsters, and 
 everything else you need in a proper RPG universe. You play as a quiet hero, a mercenary of sorts, 
 selling your service to a mysterious man, whose motives you arent certain of. You see, some time 
 ago an age was ended when two legendary weapons met in battlea sword and a shield. This meeting 
 between good and evil resulted in the shield breaking, and the sword losing its power. However, 
 Mr. Super Villain somehow managed to acquire the sword, and to eliminate any risk, hes doing 
 his best to locate the lost pieces of the shield so that any risk of defeat is avoided. Unless 
 someone interferes, Aranna will face the end of another age and the start of a considerably more 
 twisted and painful one.
  
  As the hero, youll traverse the many jungles, dungeons, towns, temples and more. Theres a lot 
 to do in Dungeon Siege 2its just a shame you do pretty much the same thing from beginning to 
 end. This is the anticipated sequel to Gas Powered Games 2002 hit, and fans should be happy to 
 note that most of the core mechanics are left untouched, but the more annoying bits have been fixed, 
 some neat features have been added, and the presentation has been upped a notch.
  
  You start the game as a group of two soldiersthe character you define at the very beginning, and 
 a good friend of yours. Each person in your party should specialize in a certain class, be it melee, 
 ranged, combat magic, or nature magic. One could of course go for versatility and train in multiple 
 classes, but itd weaken the party substantially. Throughout the game, youre given primary and 
 secondary quests. Secondary quests are useful because they give you extra funds and typically some 
 good items. During the first hours, youll want all the money you can find, because health and 
 mana potions are incredibly important. Most quests involve going from point A to point B, killing 
 one or more extra strong monsters, perhaps picking up an item or two, and maybe bringing it to 
 an NPC. There are more than just FedEx missions, however; and some of the exceptions are a lot 
 of fun.
  
  In the days of MMORPGs, its easy to compare any game to the likes of World of Warcraft and Everquest 
 2. These two giants have done many things the right way, and while DS2 does borrow a few things, 
 such as using ! and ? to point out quest NPCs, the game itself feels much more like Diablo 
 2, only with a full party to keep track of. To simplify this, the developers have added some pretty 
 decent AI and excellent path finding from back in the days with the original Dungeon Siege. Party 
 AI has been made different this time because now you have to take a more active role during combat. 
 This is nice because earlier your main role was pressing the mana/health potion buttons. With a 
 well-made party, youll have very little downtime, so once you sit down and start playing youll 
 probably be glued for hours on end if you enjoy this specific genre. Make no mistake. This isnt 
 a very complicated RPG. As long as you manage your party, pick up and sell whatever you see, and 
 keep your heroes stocked with potions, you shouldnt have too many problems during most of the 
 single-player campaign. There are a few snags and problems, but you learn to accept and overcome 
 these quite fast.
  
  Formations are handled quite easily. By pressing a hotkey, you can have your group focus on a single 
 target or spread out in certain ways. It can be annoying when they refuse to automatically defend 
 themselves because its not always easy to spot the smaller creatures that attack you, but againyou 
 learn to get by.
  
  As you level up, youll distribute skill points into a branching ladder system that lets you specialize 
 within a class. A ranged fighter may specialize in bows and crossbows, or maybe throwing weapons 
 if that sounds more appealing. Each character also has a series of special powersusually up to 
 threethat require a certain amount of skill points. These powers are typically very damaging. 
 Sometimes their range is a small circle; other times its a larger area. Using these powers, you 
 can often turn the tide in an otherwise tough fight or when you just want to remove a group of 
 pests.
  
  The storyline consists of three acts, each with something around seven to nine chapters. These 
 vary in length, and normally end with a particularly important and enjoyable fight. Secondary quests 
 are great if you just want to explore more of the game, but it can be hard to figure out where 
 it is youre supposed to go. The quest descriptions are decent, and youll sometimes have an arrow 
 on your mini-map to help you out, but if youre used to sites like thottbot. com giving you quest 
 coordinates youll be in for a wake-up call.
  
  Next up are the items and monsters youll encounter. In DS2, the drop-rate is far more random than 
 it was the last time, and the sheer amount of loot has been improved enormously. There are set 
 items, uniques, rares of various kinds, enchantable items, and of course the normal magical items. 
 The enchantable items can be brought to an enchanter, who brings up a menu. Here you place the 
 item, and put charm-like items to define the magical properties. You only have a limited number 
 of slots, so most items wont be incredible, but it can be an alternative if, for instance, you 
 havent found a very good spell book for a caster.
  
  The monsters are certainly plentiful and come in many shapes and forms, but they lack the charm 
 of those found in Blizzards games. This is actually the biggest fault of the presentationit just 
 doesnt look all that interesting. For instance, the environments are quite detailed and heavily 
 populated, characters are more detailed, and there are numerous cool shader effects, but they dont 
 make you smile the way you might when seeing a beautiful vista in Guild Wars or exploring a city 
 for the first time in World of Warcraft or Everquest 2. For the most part, the game looks quite 
 okay though, and the sounds are definitely good as well. Hours of NPC dialogue have been recorded, 
 and the voice talents did pretty well. Jeremy Soule, who every RPG gamer should know of, put together 
 a great musical score that works extremely well with the environment youre in. Also, the sound 
 effects leave little to be wanted, but the monsters shouldve been much more vocalsomething Diablo 
 2 did much, much better.
  
  Another very interesting part of the game is the ability to play co-op over the Internet. You can 
 play with several of your friends, yell at them for looting something you need, and just have a 
 good time. The difficulty is changed according to the number of players, making the game just about 
 as challenging as it should be. Additionally, since there are three difficulty settings in the 
 single-player campaign you can replay the game in order to get even more powerful, acquire phatter 
 loot, and fight increasingly devious monsters. There are three modes that define the number of 
 players and how many characters they may import from a party (two players with two characters, 
 four players with one character, and so on) . I dont know if itll turn out to be as popular as 
 Diablo 2, but I hope people give it a fair try. 
  
  Conclusion:
  Dungeon Siege 2 does what sequels should dofix the things that didnt work, improve the things 
 that did, and add the content that fans of the first will enjoy. This time theres less downtime, 
 pathing problems have, for the most part, been fixed, things are prettier and sound better, and 
 theres a lot more to dothough its usually the same thing in various forms.
  
  Those who didnt like the first one will probably want to avoid this one as well, but those who 
 spent hours grinding away or doing countless magic-find runs in Diablo 2 will probably have fun 
 with this game. You will of course not find many of the awesome things that a MMORPG can offer, 
 but if youre looking for a changesomething not very complicated and a little differentthen look 
 up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Coming off the success of Dungeon Siege and its expansion, Dungeon Siege II, developed by Gas Powered 
 Games, brings players back to what made Dungeon Siege a great game and only builds upon it. Taking 
 a lot of pointers from the previous installment gave Dungeon Siege II many fine qualities, but 
 also plagued some of its gameplay. Being released on August 16th of 2005 starting the end of the 
 year rush for both developers and publishers, Dungeon Siege II was received with some open praises, 
 but also some angry fists. 
  
  The storyline within Dungeon Siege II is a little more developed than the first game with the fate 
 of the world once again resting on your shoulders, but this time around, youre more than just 
 a farmer. The storyline itself is interesting enough to make you progress throughout the game, 
 but its not what youd expect from Gas Powered Games the second time around after not giving the 
 first Dungeon Siege too interesting of a story. Maybe Im just expecting too much from role-playing 
 games nowadays with storylines, but I really do feel that Dungeon Siege IIs storyline is really 
 lacking any sort of depth. Youre given few choices throughout the game, but those choices dont 
 really influence any outcome during the game and any side quest youre sent upon really isnt remembered 
 after you receive the next side quests. There just isnt a lot of memorable points throughout the 
 game to justify remembering this game when youre finished.
  
  The graphics have been updated since the previous installment which is a nice touch and like Dungeon 
 Siege, the entire world is seamless, both above and below ground so there are no loading sequences 
 when playing throughout the huge world. One nice feature of the game is all the different types 
 of weapons and armors throughout the entire game look different and unique from one another and 
 this is nice seeing your character change throughout the campaign and the different armors and 
 weapons, not to mention the different magic spells look great in this game. Although the graphics 
 engine has been enhanced since the Dungeon Siege one, its showing its age with jagged edges and 
 boxy looking characters, but the environments do look nice and different from each other. The gameworld 
 is quite fleshed out and detailed whether youre in an ancient desert tower or roaming through 
 dense forest foliage.
  
  Gameplay in Dungeon Siege is more expanded than the first game where youre able to level up your 
 accompanying characters you take with you on your travels. The mule doesnt seem as useful as the 
 first game, because with all the enemies youll face this time around; youll need as many weapons 
 and spells as you can get while fighting what seems to be endless monsters from the beginning cinematic 
 till the last. To say the least, theres combat in Dungeon Siege II. To be brutally honest, theres 
 so much combat in Dungeon Siege II that youll become bored with the slow progression of the game 
 because of thousands and thousands of monsters youll have to defeat just to get through the many 
 different chapters of the storyline. Its not just the repetitive combat that seems unending during 
 the last few hours of the game, but the fact that youll be facing the same monster time and again 
 room after room of each building. And also the fact that the enemies wont necessarily get tougher 
 throughout the many hours of the game, but theyll just have more hitpoints than they used to. 
 No, not better artificial intelligence along with the more hitpoints, just more hitpoints. So, 
 youll just be waiting till your characters finally expend them of their hundreds of hitpoints 
 until youre able to move on.
  
  But there is quite a bit of gameplay within Dungeon Siege II because the single player campaign 
 is long. If you were to complete every single side mission and the main quest altogether, you could 
 easily spend over fifty hours on this game and thats extremely good for a role-playing game nowadays, 
 but the only detriment about this is the fact that youll constantly be battling the same foe time 
 after time. And like the first game, youre able to control a group of people, but the only bad 
 thing about this is that the size of your group depends on how many times youve completed the 
 single player campaign.
  
  The actual soundtrack of the game is pretty decent and doesnt really get too repetitive while 
 playing this long campaign, but the voice acting of the characters is just atrocious to say the 
 least. I dont know what happened during the development stage of Dungeon Siege II, but it just 
 seems like Gas Powered Games ran out of money before they did the voice acting in the game and 
 decided to do it in-house. I guess its just with how much youre forced to listen to the voices 
 of your companions, I wouldve expected better.
  
  There is a multiplayer portion to Dungeon Siege II, but unlike the previous installment where Gas 
 Powered Games gave the players an alternate world to explore, youre only able to replay the original 
 campaign with your friends. Not a terrible aspect, but with how long the campaign is, one might 
 get bored after the first ten or so hours of the same thing theyre already completed a few times 
 already trying to gain more npc companions along the way.
  
  Overall, Dungeon Siege II is a good enhancement since the first game and does add many features 
 just touched upon by Gas Powered Games first try out. The idea of the gameworld again being seamless, 
 even though its so huge, is nice and the ability to have total control over your companions is 
 a welcome addition. The repetitive gameplay and the lack of depth in your foes is disheartening 
 with such a big title release, and the terrible voice acting really take away from the amount of 
 time truly invested in Dungeon Siege II.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neverbeenhit
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  Typical RPG game, nice gameplay and the movies rocks. Just like what I have said the game menu 
 don't seem to be that good still diablo II rules. I play for 5 hours a day with DSII and its worth 
 it. I left my Online Characters for a while to play this. I would go for DSII than Sacred, not 
 only with the graphics but also the characters. . . . . . . . . . . well, many still don't like 
 rpg games. . . . . . . . . . i suggest you play this game, its worth it. experience like lineage, 
 ragnarok or everquest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Severisth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege II has a great balance of storyline, character development, and just plain old hack-n-slash 
 action. You can play it when you want to just kill mindlessly, you can play it when you want to 
 spend time buffing up your characters, and you can play it when you want to follow a good, thick 
 storyline. It has great replay value - once you finish the game you can play it again on the harder 
 level, starting out with all of the gear you earned during your first go-through. After you finish 
 that, you can hop online and play with friends or strangers. Overall, Dungeon Siege II is WELL 
 worth the investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  This game is totally amazing. The learning curve is kind a hard but once you get all the controls 
 tweaked down you are unstoppable. 
  
  1st: The storyline is really good.
  2nd: The combat mode and gameplay is sharp, reactive and really quick.
  3rd: The graphics and 
 sounds are state of the art. A good machine will be required to run this game to his full potential.
 
  4th: The bosses are totally challenging and not just formalities. Those combats can last tens 
 and tens of minutes, especially at the end. 
  5th: The level-up process is good, but could be a little bit improved. They kept it simple and 
 linear, but still, when your characters levels up, you really see a change. 
  6th: I was missing a good hack-and-slash RPG since DiabloII: LoD and this game did the job really 
 well. This game finally answered to my lust for adventure.
  
  I recommend this game to everyone, especially if you are an RFG fan practice yourself with your 
 mouse before you start playing Dungeon Siege II, youll need it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Well, at first I'll admit, I was kinda disappointed in the graphics of the game. But the more I 
 played, the more I really got into this game. Incredibly long game (depending what party member 
 joins you) gives you plenty of quests to accomplish. I also enjoyed the various different magical 
 items you can find! I seem to keep coming back to this game and playing with a different party 
 member/pets for new quests to do. I give this game a thumbs up, and well worth the money. So if 
 you are looking for a great fast paced RPG game to play, make sure you grab yourself a copy now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunder_Wolf_X
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely better than dungeon siege 1: the number of characters u play with has been decreased, 
 so finally it feels more like an RPG instead of a strategy-like RPG.
  
  Also, LOTS of different monsters and quests to go for! Too bad that the items that are dropped 
 have a big chance of sucking hard if u get far in the game.
  
  BUT still! I've completed the game now on the hardest difficulty (meaning i completed the game 
 3 times, shouldn't that say enough :) and i'm still gaming occasionally with it to unlock the mysterious 
 quest (providing off course a greater challenge than the final "official" battle) .
  
  The graphics aren't elder scrolls 4 off course, but far from outdated, also the sound is very good, 
 good voice acting, nice music, nothing bad in that department.
  
  The only other minus that i can think of is : if you're very familiar with RPG's (like me) , you'll 
 see that the first time you complete the game you will really have NO challenge, it's really easy 
 (probably to get non RPG-players warmed up a little)
  
  So, if you're an RPG / Hack'n slash lover, just go out and buy this game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimandose1422
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege II has gone further than that of Diablo II. There aren't as many variations of characters 
 and attributes, but the quality of the game gives it the boost. The majority of the game is the 
 same every time you play, but there is always a small variation of gameplay throughout. There's 
 a large variation of weapons and armor and other many skills mixed together for better characters. 
 The graphics are pretty good for an Action Role-playing game. The game is fast paced battes, but 
 also fast paced adventuring. The sound is pretty good also. Different sounds for different actions. 
 And even when finding special items there are different sound used. Other fun parts of the game 
 are Mods. You can find mods for it in many places, but I think Guru has made the best and funnest. 
 I suggest that you use mods after completing the game once, so you can experience gameplay through 
 without god-like powers, then see how easy it is to slaughter enemies with power beyond expectations. 
 Though I'm not sure how to get the mods to work in games that are already saved. But the Game is 
 fun and I do think it's a better choice in Action-RPG, until the better games come later... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanBo46
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  Great game with a lot of things to do! I enjoyed a lot the first game and even the expansion pack. 
 Graphics are very good and controls are simple. Repetitive some time. Long game overall. I am not 
 a regular gamer but this title is always on my Desktop. I would suggest to add more strong special 
 items after a while playing you cannot find really something interesting. The dragon is impressive. 
 I would have like also to add more comrades to my party like in the first game. I am not finished 
 yet with that game and I am anxious to see the end of the story. I will definitly buy any sequel 
 of that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I never paid attention to the story. I don't have any idea whats going on besides the fact that 
 I kill lots of things. And it's dang addicting. My friends and I got this and we instantly fell 
 in love with it. The hacking... The slashing... The beating of thine game! It was great. Then we 
 get halfway through the game and our characters are corrupted when we try to play online again. 
 Oh well, we'll just wait for a patch. That was months ago... We're trying to get through Elite 
 mode but we can't because the game no longer lets us play our characters. They really need to patch 
 it. I put many hours into that.
  
  Anyways, less complaining. If you took Diablo II and made it fully 3D with better weapons and the 
 crafting tool for new weapons, you get Dungeon Siege II. The thing that stands out is the multiplayer 
 and the amount of detail they put into the game (besides the mouths moving on the characters) . 
 The sounds are beautiful on a good sound card and speaker set up. The mutliplayer (if playable 
 all the time without corruption) is just terrific. If you're a fan of hacking and slashing, pick 
 this up. It's worth the purchase. Plus, and expansion is on it's way.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------
  
  Pros:
  Hack-n-slash done oh-so-well; 
 Graphics are great with terrific shaders; Sounds are near perfect; controls are simple; The addition 
 of the skill ladder; co-op multiplayer mode.
  
  Cons:
  No PVP servers; No mods out yet (not their fault though) ; Game is kinda short; Bad networking errors 
 before patch and even after; Not as stable as Diablo II; Should be able to level past 100 like 
 in the previous Dungeon Siege.
  
  Overall:
  A terrific game despite the networking errors. It's a very great game and worth every penny. Most 
 of the mistakes will be improved over the course of a nice expansion, I'm sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_werry_man
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  This game sucks.
  
  I was anticipating this game from 2003, because i liked the original dungeon siege alot. This game 
 has like yr 1999-2000 graphics, and the way its organized stinks. They dont give you alot of potions, 
 and its way too much of the same thing. 50 hours of walking, fighting a monster, losing health, 
 and having nothing to replenish it. It also has a town portal spell where you can go back to town. 
 Also it has "waypoints". Making it feel like a diablo 2 clone, which i hate, because its nothing 
 like diablo 2.
  
  This game sucks, and it isnt worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Vampire
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  First of all, this game got really nice graphics and environment. Every corner u see many things. 
 Grass, tree, river, waterfall all perfect. The graphics more like the first game, but prettier. 
 Its really feast on the eye. The sounds also really good, when you slash enemies or beat them using 
 blunt weapons, all got different sounds. The sounds really entertaining. Right click on that monster 
 and listen to the sounds of carnage! But its try to be more like Diablo style of gameplay, rather 
 than the original one that more like Icewind Dale. Its really not a good idea. Many games try to 
 beat Diablo style of gameplay and failed. But I think that the game can beat Diablo II if it got 
 random dungeon and places. It'll be a good game if it using style of gameplay like the first game. 
 Long journey to Castle Ehb. However i'd say that this game is a lot better than Diablo II. When 
 the game's hit the store, i do hope for something like the original but better graphics, sounds 
 and Story. Yet the gameplay change a bit disappointed. Its not really dissapointing becuz the game 
 is really good for every aspects!! Anyway, the games got full voice acting, its really good.
  
  A must play game, for Diablo II lovers!!! Own it cuz it will own you. haha!
  And this is 
 a must play game for RPG hack and slash hardcore!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  When the first Dungeon Siege came out several years ago, I was really impressed with it. The graphics 
 were amazing, the ability to play above or below ground was cool, and the endless Diablo-like loot 
 was great. Probably the coolest thing about DS were the missions. Sure they were linear, but so 
 were the quests in Baldur's Gate and Neverwinter Nights, and this game looked better. I guess my 
 only beef with the game was that it was so short. I was ready for the game to keep going and it 
 didn't. But it was a fun little adventure and overall a really great RPG. 
  
  Fast-forward to today. Some of the things that made the original Dungeon Siege so compelling are 
 just no longer viable. The "awesome graphics" are absolute crap compared to recent games like Guild 
 Wars. In fact my main gripe about this game are the character models. They suck. It's like going 
 back to 1999 or something. And when you see these Pong graphics interacting with a beautiful, lush 
 and vibrant environment using the latest shaders and whatnot ... it's just awkward to even look 
 at. The sound is vastly improved though. Now there's a difference in the sound of a fallen adversary 
 dropping 25 gold versus 250 gold. The 250 gold makes a louder  clink 
::::::

::::::
UserName: langrisser2005
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege II brings to the table a quality bash n' kill RPG. It appealed me by its colorful 
 graphics so I decided to get and try it out to see if this was just another standard RPG, or something 
 special, in a way it is both.
  
  At the beginning you must choose a race to start your journey. There are 4 different ones to choose 
 from each with flaws and weaknesses. Dryads, Elfs, Half-Giants and Humans. Once you've chosen, 
 the introduction will begin. A thousand years ago, the crusaders of Azunai crossed swords with 
 the legions of Zaramoth in the final battle of a century-long rebellion. Once you've seen the past 
 history you will begin with the present.
  
  You start off as a mercenary working for the evil warlord Valdis. The plot starts with the player 
 invading the beach on the coast on the continent of Aranna. You and your long-time companion must 
 go to war against the azunai and assist the army of Valdis. The style of Gameplay is much like 
 Diablo II. The game's combat automation system requires players to click once for each individual 
 attack of their selected character. Clicking on a monster and holding the right mouse key makes 
 the character continuously attack until the monster dies. Also once a character has killed a monster 
 if another is close enough they will automatically attack them however there are options that can 
 change this.
  
  There are Four different classes to upgrade with character, Melee, Ranged, Nature Magic, and Combat 
 Magic which all have their own unique set of skills, arranged in a skill tree just like in Diablo 
 II, that determines a character's particular strengths. Such as melee characters can get better 
 at using a shield to defend their allies or they can improve their two-handed weapon skills to 
 more effectively attack opponents. You can distribute skills points to all of these classes but 
 it's not recommended as you don't strengthen well so it's best to keep skills points on one to 
 two classes.
  
  Another addition in Dungeon Siege II is the Hero Powers system. Powers are special abilities that 
 characters can use when normal attacks do not suffice; they include abilities like invincibility 
 for the entire party and the power to summon a lightning strike that damages all enemies in the 
 area. They are acquired when certain skills are trained to a certain level. Each power has 3 levels, 
 which require more skill points to be invested to get.
  Like the skills in the skill trees, Powers increase in potency as characters level.
  
  Dungeon 
 Siege II is a party-based RPG. Players can have up to 4 characters in a party under the first difficulty 
 setting Mercenary, 5 characters in Veteran difficulty, and 6 in Elite difficulty. Aside from being 
 able to recruit NPCs that function much like the player's own character, players can also buy pets 
 that grow after being fed items.
  
  Pets begin off with a basic attack and also a decent spell. Also they gain a Power upon reaching 
 the 3rd level of growth, and finally gain an emanation upon becoming Mature. Emanations are special 
 pet-only auras that emanate outwards from the pet; they provide beneficial effects to friendly 
 characters within range such as increased mana regeneration or increased attack/defense.
  
  If a character loses enough life, you fall into a state of unconsciousness. The character falls 
 to the ground, unable to move, and must wait for his or her health to slowly regenerate itself 
 or ask for magical healing from another character. If a character is hit hard enough by an enemy, 
 or if an enemy is persistent in attacking an unconscious character, the character may eventually 
 be killed. Once death occurs, the character can no longer be healed and must be resurrected by 
 another character or by a special NPC in town. If the entire party is slain, it can respawn back 
 in town, but all equipment is left at their corpses. The party must then find a way to retrieve 
 its fallen equipment, either by adventuring back to the characters corpses or by having them summoned 
 to town by a NPC for a small fee.
  
  Dungeon Siege 2 supports multiplayer cooperative gaming over LAN, the Internet, and a GameSpy network. 
 Multiple people can play together in allied parties. The total limit is 6 characters, regardless 
 of whether they're player-controlled or NPCs. Purchased pets count towards this limit but summoned 
 creatures from spells do not. Throughout exploring the lands of Aranna you see amazing detail of 
 several different environment such as forests, deserts, castles, towns, and of course many dungeons. 
 Some looks better or worse than others however the amount of color and special effects make them 
 amazing and worthy to explore. Characters, spells, summons all look very good with small margin 
 of errors and room for detail.
  
  Gameplay is important for RPGs and there is much to be done in Dungeon Siege II. Choosing a race, 
 choosing a class, choosing your party members, choosing your skills and powers and a lot of different 
 types of monsters awaiting.
  
  The Music pieces fit well in each different area you explore and makes you want to venture further 
 deep in the lands Aranna. Sound is also very good, the sounds of spells, summons, and the environment 
 and monster noises fit great. The voice-overs are not bad but not great either. They are good enough 
 in standard but at times they can be quite bad, then again there is a lot of dialogue and at least 
 most of the available playing characters don't sound too bad.
  
  In Value a good length of time can be spent in Dungeon Siege II. The length of the game is decent 
 with many side quests to take upon besides just the main quests which should consume you well. 
 Roughly with all quests completed the game should somewhat last a good 50 hours of gameplay which 
 is a decent standard of length in a RPG. Also once you have completed the first difficulty the 
 next opens for availability. So in total you could easy get 100+ hours if you wish to play all 
 three difficulty modes.
  
  Pros: Great environments and atmosphere to explore. Colorful characters and detail on monsters 
 and the lands. Good standard length to complete. Quite addictive, random items drops each time 
 you revisit an area, nice D&amp; D action fighting with party members and others. Great music and 
 sound.
  
  Cons: Bashing monster after monster (and there are heaps) clicking with the mouse it can get some 
 tiresome and might require several rest and breaks, character voices could be better, more races 
 and choices should've be implemented, more interaction with playable characters could've led to 
 a greater story.
  
  In Overall a very good RPG which should suit fans who do enjoy these types of games. If you've 
 played Diablo II or other similar games and are looking for something alike then Dungeon Siege 
 II is what youre after. It's very fun and addictive and should be worth playing. A Great RPG for 
 the PC so don't delay, get it right away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilso326
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  First of all, anyone who says these graphics are good is stoned. If you set everything to its highest, 
 it still looks like some game from 1998 or 1999. I've seen better looking dreamcast games. The 
 character models are extremely low-poly, like the models from a really old game like half life 
 1. The texturing is not as bad as the poly-count, but they look really lame and dull since they 
 only like to use a palette of blues, pale yellows an some greens and browns. There are hardly any 
 animations at all, you see a lot of the same death animations over and over again for your enemies. 
 The characters and NPCs look better than they did in DS1, the NPCs can walk on their own, but that's 
 about it. Your characters have more lively looking walk animations and attack animations. The particle 
 effects are pretty good though, though the fire and blood looks really cartoony. The cinematics 
 are the worst. There are some pre-recorded cinematics, but they don't have your character and are 
 recorded in low-res but still use the in-game models. The cinematics using the game engine SUCK. 
 They only use the in-game animations, so its limited to stuff like a guy walking up to another 
 guy, attacking, and then the other guy dying. There is some dialogue, but they shouldn't have put 
 any in the cinematics because you can see that there is no animation at all when they talk. It 
 simply zooms in on their face, and you hear some dialogue. Their head doesn't even wobble like 
 those old ps1 games.
  
  The gameplay is simple and not original. When Diablo first came out, dozens and dozens of these 
 hack and slash clones came out. Dungeon siege came out after Diablo 2, but it was a lot of fun 
 and was a huge success because it featured a lot of multiplayer modes, and it was true 3d. Now 
 in dungeon siege 2, it's basically the same thing. Wow, you have to hold your mouse to keep attacking 
 your enemy with a melee weapon. Using a ranged weapon is stupid, because even though it says the 
 weapon can fire 10-15 meters or so, it only fires about 3 feet. If you specialize your character 
 in ranged, you become extremely weak but fast and fighting just becomes a hit-and-run, as you hit 
 your target, run back and hit them again and repeat. This game is hardly an improvement over dungeon 
 siege 1 and now it just feels like the using your mouse only RPG is getting old. 
  
  The multiplayer is a bit improved, you can talk to people online while you play single player. 
 But that's about it.
  
  The sound is pretty good when compared to the rest of the game. The weapons all have powerful impact 
 sounds, your enemies have battle cries and roars. Most of the music is good, but it sounds like 
 its just been remixed versions of the dungeon siege 1 music. The voice acting is mostly good, though 
 some actors sound like they're bored and not interested in acting for this game. There is a lot 
 more dialogue though, everything that is said by characters is said out loud, so you don't have 
 to do so much reading if you hate reading so much.
  
  The plot isn't that good and not very exciting, since you create your own character and a lot of 
 the characters you meet can die, there isn't much involvement with the characters. The plot seems 
 like it's just your generic RPG or adventure movie content, with a pretty straight forward plot 
 and characters that you don't learn much about.
  
  Dungeon Siege 2 is not any better than the previous DS, but if you still love the first one you 
 may want to get this one. Though after all these Diablo clones, Dungeon Siege 2 doesn't make itself 
 any different from the others and isn't a lot of fun unless you are a hardcore fan of this genre. 
 I recommend this only to those hardcore people, for anyone else, this is garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RonShahar
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is just ok. The graphics are good, but gameplay gets very boring. Gaining levels isn't 
 that exciting either. I always recommend to play the demo before you buy. Different people like 
 different games. Altough great games like Ultima IV, Neverwinter Nights and Heroes of Might and 
 Magic III are just plain great.
  
  The story line just didn't grab me! I found myself just no caring about my character, and skipping 
 over the dialogue. I also didn't care too much for the sound. It wasn't bad, it just didn't add 
 anthing.
  
  The game was also too easy. I mean, you can die, but that doesn't mean much, you just go right 
 back out there.
  
  I have to admit that part of the problem is that maybe I had high expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xslayerxpac
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Microsoft did a good job in re-creating a more graphically demanding version of Diablo 2 when they 
 came out with Dungeon Siege 2. The interface is solid and provides a lot of nice features such 
 as the 'pick up all items' button and an inventory organizer button, this comes in handy if you're 
 one of those anal-retentive people like me who has to have healing potions separated from items 
 you're going to sell and whatnot. The gameplay offers mainly hack and slash style combat, and can 
 be addictive. If you like a game with a lot of blood and gore, this one has it. Throughout the 
 game you'll start finding "rare" items, "unique" items, and yes, even "set" items that add more 
 bonuses to your character's stats when you have different items of the same set equipped. The game 
 features an average character development system, with a skill tree for four different types of 
 characters which you can effectively multi-class in; Archery, Melee, Nature Magic, and Combat Magic. 
 Melee and Archery are self-explanatory, Nature Magic offers spells using ice and other forces of 
 nature, and includes a lot of different healing and summoning spells, and Combat Magic focuses 
 mainly on deadly and destructive magics such as fire, lightning, and death magic. Each class has 
 it's own skillset with powerful skills that can be used once and again after the skill recharges 
 itself. The skill trees for each class are all passive skills, meaning you cant 'use' any of them 
 in combat, they're added to your characters stats once you add them. It is, like I said, an average 
 method of character development that could have used a bit more along the line of skills and spells. 
 Overall, its a fun game to play and you'll enjoy pillaging through merciless hoards of foes to 
 find and re-unite the four pieces of an ancient shield used to defeat the end boss. I recommend 
 this game if you're looking for something to occupy your time until TES: Oblivion comes out in 
 March :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalgator
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Taking little to run, and still look stealer, this game is really amazing. Offering an addictive 
 and immerseive interface, that surpasses all other adventure role playing games of the era. It 
 is not uncommon to play for 5 hours or more, this game allows for more customization of your characters, 
 down to what to feed your pet, in order to control its growth, and thus its stats. With plenty 
 of characters to chose from, your party can be diverse in all aspects of skills, allowing for a 
 well balanced party, that can be customized to fit the controllers preferences. This game is a 
 good play, with a rich story, with many great aspects that make up the overall pleasant experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindstormpt
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I was looking for a RPG to play over a LAN when I found Dungeon Siege 2. After the first few minutes 
 of playing, I already knew it had been a great choice.
  
  The game seems a tad complex at first, but you'll get used to it quickly, and it will fill completely 
 natural. The graphics are good, though not outstanding, and the sound is what you'd expect. What 
 I've never found before was a game which so adequate to play with a small group of friends. The 
 cooperative campaign just works, doesn't get boring and is fun. Plus, it's not as hardcore as some 
 of the other games in the genre, which makes it perfect for semi-casual playing.
  
  I guess the single thing I didn't like about the game was the lack of attack shortcuts. The combat 
 system isn't as dynamic as it could, but other features such as "free classes" and pets make up 
 for it.
  
  It earns it's spot next to Revenant and the Diablo series in my best RPG's ever list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyr0m4ni4c
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  DS2 Is an amazing sequel to Dungeon Siege 1 because it contains so many new extra features. For 
 example, Dungeon Siege 2 has pets, and Dungeon Siege 1 doesn't. 
  There are so many examples, like the teleporters, powers, 
  I could go on...
  
  Overall I 
 think that its value is amazing, since it is now around 29.99,
  when it's starting price was 59.99.
  
  The sound is amazing, and effects make the game much 
 better.
  The graphics revolutionized Dungeon Siege 1, and its gameplay is great.
  
  If you're strolling in a Future shop or EB Games, check out this game, its worth the watch.
  
 
  BUY THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macetein
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 19, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  In theory this game is like Diablo II in some ways, superior, rare and uniques items make their 
 appearence. Nice lovely skills trees also make their appearence... but, what's soo cool about this 
 game (and also Dungeon Siege 1) , is that it lets u create a free style character.
  U want a wizard, start sending fireballs to ur enemies, want to be an archer, start using bows, 
 and so on, THATS THE GREATNESS OF THE GAME !!!
  
  I might add that my character is only lvl 15, so I haven't seen much about this game, but... it 
 can only get better! :D
  
  Have fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabiogarcia
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 19, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  I tried to steer clear from Dungeon Siege II because of the horrible experiences I had with its 
 predecessor. Unfortunately, since the RPG genre is experiencing a dry spell, Dungeon Siege II has 
 forced my hand to buy it. To my surprise, Gas Powered Games improved their craft on Dungeon Siege 
 II by improving the combat system and giving it a better storyline. 
  
  The combat system is much more fun because of the "skill tree", which allows your character to 
 specialize. In melee combat, you can either fight by dual-wielding weapons, use a sword and shield, 
 or carry two-handed weapons. As a nature mage, you can focus on healing, ice magic, summoning, 
 or enchanting. As a combat mage, death, lightning, and fire magic are at your command. The ranger 
 can also choose between thrown weapons, crossbows and bows. 
  
  What separates Dungeon Siege II from its predecessor is the better story and a richer game world. 
 Albeit the story is mediocre at best, a typical fantasy type, in which a hero is destined to single 
 handedly defeat an evil of great renown, it is better than none. The plot has a lot of unexpected, 
 and yet shallow, twists and turns. The game also contains more than a handful of books, which are 
 interesting to read, and casts a deeper hue to the world of Aranna. 
  
  In the rarity of RPG these days, I admit that I gambled when I bought Dungeon Siege II, like when 
 food is scarce and you don't have much choice but to eat what you have. I admit that I didn't expect 
 to enjoy this game. Although, I must say, the improvement wasn't enough to meet my needs as an RPGamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikepearson85
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  decent game, not much substance for a microsoft product. When you consider the expense of creating 
 a quality game one would think that developers would dedicate more time and effort to creating 
 a system at least slightly different to Diablo. For god's sake all blizzard need to do is develop 
 an operating system and it'll be all over for microsoft. In fact if they team up with bioware they 
 could well rule the world... mwoo ha ha.
  
  Seriously though, the game was fun and engrossing but broke no new ground in terms of game dynamics, 
 character generation or general visual topography.
  Still a vast improvement on the first game - no guns! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinGerry
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  I particularly liked the elaborate detail given to each scene in the game. And completing each 
 complex quest gives the game more reason to be played. It is intended for mature gamers, and I 
 believe it fits the profile perfectly. Its the best RPG game I've played for a long time now. There 
 are so many aspects of the game you must consider, not just to kill and loot. Eversince I played 
 this game, other games seems pretty boring. 
  
  I hope it will have another sequel. I'm still in the middle of completing the game but I am eager 
 to have another Dungeon Siege in my games collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkinc9
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I was on the edge of my seat waiting. The first was very good 
 in many ways but the second should have been better. I ran out to get this game the morning the 
 store opened and I play ed it as soon as I got home. Right off the bat the game was slow to load 
 and the graphics where the same for the most part. The char were the same in almost every detail. 
 The game controled the same way as the first. So what I think I am saying is the game is a rip 
 from the first. I liked the pets and the different char stories but it just was not worth the money 
 I paid for it. I played it for a week and put it away and I havent even tried it again. I think 
 I may just sell it. Dont buy it wait for the bargan bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floering
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege II was fun to play at first, but the perodic crashes were an annoyance and infrequent, 
 happening maybe only once in every five hours if gameplay. However, as I got deeper into the game, 
 the frequency of crashes increased and eventually made the game unplayable. I have many other games 
 that I play on my game PC (Guild Wars, Battlefield 2, and others) and not one have ever crashed 
 nearly as often. After many calls to the Microsoft help in India, a few reinstalls, driver updates, 
 re-patching, and I even re-installed Windows on my PC, they eventually decided that they couldn't 
 fix the game and offered a full refund.
  
  If you like games to crash or sieze up on you right as you are getting to interesting parts, and 
 having to re-play from your last save, then this game is for you. Otherwise, go play some other 
 game, ANY other game. I feel that the time I spent playing this game was utterly wasted, and I 
 will never get that time back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linexip
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  First... i played old Dungeons Siege... it was best RPG i ever played ...
  Now i have DS 2 .. wat can i say... New battle/lvl up system, much more weapons/armors/items . Its 
 very long game ( i spent about ~40 to finish all quests) But Easy/Hard/Very hard system makes it 
 even more long... so you need more then 100 h to finish ALL game . 
  
  Graphic.. for RPG its perfect but i think it can be better.
  
  Story... Interesting but dont 
 have End... maybe there will be DS 3 ? :)
  
  interface... very good after DS 1 ,now its easy to collect items/teleport and etc.
  
  Characters... 
 there is many races, like Elves and humans.. and ya... in game you can buy PET to help you.
  
  Magic/Battle... its a little unbalanced... couse i think Fighters are too strong (or stronger 
 then mages) .
  
  Lvl... as in DS 2 you gain lvl, but stats is based on item you use (like sword- you will gain strenght...) 
 and new thingy, abilities and others thingies.
  
  I can write and write... its to hard to show my emotions...
  
  Wat can i say more... this game 
 full of action... interesting... yes its "Best RPGfor me. And if you like RPG or even played DS 
 1 you MUST buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobra_Star
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege 2 builds upon its predecessor by offering even more exotic monsters to fight, and 
 action, and loads of items. The hack-and-slash action is also back, with nothing but constant monster 
 slashing throughout the entire game. And that may be the problem, at least it was for me, there 
 is too much Diablo-style hack-and-slash which makes the monsters rather meaningless and shallow. 
 By the time you reach half way into the game, monsters fade into the background and all you want 
 is to get to the next point into the story as fast as possible. 
  
  But this is not to say that Dungeon Siege 2 is a bad game. The graphics are great (although excessively 
 colorful) , the item system is vast (though closely modeled after Diablo II's) , and the character 
 development is thorough. Otherwise DS2 is very similar to Diablo, and is even broken up into 3 
 Acts. 
  
  Essentially you should buy this game if you must slash to pieces every monster in sight in and 
 RPG, but if instead you want an ingenious, original, thinking man's RPG then look elsewhere. Perhaps 
 at Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikid-willy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  The game is great when your on your first time beating it.. The story keeps you in, graphics are 
 pretty nice (environment looks great) and the sound f-x are alrite. Anyways like i said, when you 
 first play it, and beat it its a great game, but when you go around on your second time, it kinda 
 gets boring because its the exact same thing, but higher level monsters (not really difficult because 
 your higher level also) . The multi player isnt that great though, which is a disapointment because 
 if it was like the D2 servers it woulda been an awesome game. there is no pvp eather..
  
  If you liked playing D2 and into the RPG clicking type of thing, then youd like this game alot, 
 but if your into more traditional RPGs like FF, or MMO than this games not really for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4_majin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:33 am PT
Review:  It's hard to be original in a world where most ideas have been used, so you have to do the next 
 best thing... take the best from everything and mix them up in one. This is what the guys from 
 Gas Powered Games did with Dungeon siege 2: theyve created a hybrid between a lot of successful 
 games. Of course, for creating a hybrid, you need a starting point with a small amount of originality. 
 In the past Diablo ruled the market without a contender, for the simple fact that the game was 
 very accessible. The first contender was Dungeon siege 1. It failed because of the small amount 
 of quests and items. The idea of the party was fantastic but you did not have enough control over 
 it and it became frustrating sometimes. The skill tree was to similar to Diablo so nothing came 
 as a surprise.
  Personally DS2 will fail as its predecessor (what can I say, I loved Diablo) but is definitely 
 the closest any game will ever get to dethroning Diablo. 
  First of all, the story: based a little on Heroes 3 (I think) the story revolves around a Sword 
 and a Shield, both with great powers. Of course the two met and a great cataclysm destroyed the 
 first age of men as a result of the conflict. In the second age a big dude called Valdis manages 
 to get the Sword, becoming almost invincible, and starts looking for the Shield. Enter a mercenary 
 on his side: you. Start on the bad-guy side, **** hits the fan; he tries to kill you, believes 
 he did, you get captured by good guys, you convert and so on.
  The races are very few they could of done a lot better. There are only four races: humans, elfs 
 and dryads. Also only four Classes of development: Fighter, Ranger, Battle mage and Nature mage. 
 I guess they wanted to keep things as simple as possible. Im not going to tell you more because 
 the game elaborates more in the beginning.
  The party is finally under your full control. To be successful you will need a tank, a healer and 
 a damage dealer. A little tip from me: damage dealer=battle mage, but make sure to get at least 
 1 level of nature magic on him so you benefit a skill of mana-cost reduction.
  The game, believe it or not, is much more chaotic than Diablo. You MUST use pause game if you want 
 to stand a chance (in pause you can give orders like cast a strong magic or take a potion) .
  The Game-play is, well, hard. In the beginning you manage, but the game overwhelms you very fast. 
 You have to stay in control and use every advantage you can get. Tip Number 2: ranged attacks dont 
 go up a hill (BUG) . The skill-tree is a combination of Diablo and World of Warcraft, using the best 
 of both worlds. Skill points are used in passive powers that combined create active special hits 
 than can be used.
  The spell-book contains three types of slots: active spell, spells that you can use in combat and 
 switch between, reserve spells that are just slots used to free space in the inventory and Auto-cast 
 spells : two spells that are casted automatically no matter what you are doing. The auto-cast spells 
 are great for healers and for curses. The spell is cast only when needed.
  
  Remember that this: the game is a RPG not a hack-and-slash. Use your skills in winning a battle. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minhhieu1989
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:26 pm PT
Review:  1000 years ago, at the end of the First Age, Zaramoth the Unmaker and his sword forged out of the 
 raw power to dominate fought a climactic duel against Azunai the Defender and his shield. When 
 the sword of Zaramoth struck against Azunai's shield, which was itself forged with the raw power 
 to protect, it evoked a terrible cataclysm that altered the shape of the world and shifted the 
 stars in the sky. Dungeon Siege II picks up the tale in the present day, at the end of the Second 
 Age, where the sword and the shield have it in their destiny to meet once more.
  
  In addition to having a riveting opening for practically any game, the opening scene of Dungeon 
 Siege II has the benefit of sitting directly on top of the story and mythos of its predecessor. 
 Although the Kingdom of Ehb is far away from the central action, the hero worshipping of the Azunites, 
 the legends of the dwarves, the history of the elves, and the mystical flow of energies that run 
 beneath it are all present in the greater continent of Aranna. The wide array of story arcs and 
 sidequests that the game offers based on these preexisting elements are an excellent source of 
 entertainment to divert you from the fifty plus hours of the central plot around which the game 
 quests revolve. Sadly the very reliance upon a continuous storyline that gives the game its robust 
 nature also prevents the game from venturing too far off the beaten path. This relative lack of 
 originality does less to hurt the game than to help it, but it does make for easy comparisons, 
 on a number of issues, between both titles in the series.
  
  Greilyn Isle 
  
  The quality of the graphics that guide you through your journey is quite excellent, including the 
 extremely colorful and encroaching jungle of Greilyn Isle or the dusty, brown bleakness of the 
 Azunite Desert. Not quite so detailed or fantastic are the character models, which suffer primarily 
 from the comparison that has to be made between them and the backgrounds and environments in the 
 game. Albeit not bad, the level of detail is simply not what a great many other games have recently 
 begun to give their characters and NPCs.
  
  Quite unfortunately the musical score of the game tends to be more ambient than Jeremy Soule's 
 usual work. This is not to say that the music is bad or that none of it stands out to engage the 
 player through moments of story exposition, but on the whole it essentially boils down to well 
 arranged filler. Character voices exist and are generally good for all of the playable characters 
 and a great deal of the NPCs that you'll encounter throughout the game. In many cases, similar 
 to Private Actions in Star Ocean: The Second Story, these voices carry the character development 
 aspect of the plot by helping to express the emotional relationships between the myriad playable 
 characters that would otherwise never become apparent.
  
  Despite the massive improvements over the menus and equipment system of the original Dungeon Siege, 
 the interfaces leave a bit to be desired. There still exists no way to quickly and easily transfer 
 more than one item at a time between characters, the massive number of "must use" quick keys is 
 even more of an issue than in Dugeon Siege II's predecessor, and although it is much easier to 
 transfer spells between books than before, an option to transfer more than one spell from one book 
 to another would have been an excellent addition to the game. One aspect of character growth that 
 is new and greatly appreciated over the original is the addition of skill trees. Every time a character 
 levels up they are given a single point to put toward things like enhanced armor skill, increased 
 spell casting speed, damage resistance, the ability to ricochet attacks from one enemy to another, 
 and so on. By putting points into these skills you power up and unlock your Special Attacks and 
 other latent combat abilities.
  
  A Dungeon Under Siege 
  
  In what is fast becoming an RPG standard, Dungeon Siege II features the ability to play the game 
 a second and even a third time with the same levels, skills, and equipment that you complete the 
 game with the first time. Unlike a good portion of the games that offer similar features, the difficulty 
 leaps enormously from one difficulty setting to the next with your main counterbalance being the 
 ability to purchase more character positions within your party. With each character you add to 
 your roster however, the number and relative intelligence of your enemies also increases. It should 
 be noted that it might be possible to complete the game without ever adding anyone to your party 
 beyond the hero character, but such a task would not be at all easy or even very rewarding except 
 for people who really want to have "done it all" to get their money's worth. In much the same fashion, 
 it is possible to use the built-in GameSpy software to play the game over the internet with any 
 number of your friends in a private instance of the game world where you can run rampant to your 
 hearts' content.
  
  That brings us to the aspect of the game, and practically every other action RPG in existence, 
 that you will be devoting your fifty hours of play time to: combat. Although generally the same 
 as any dungeon crawler in the vein of Diablo, Dungeon Siege II is just different, fast paced, and 
 customizable enough to catapult itself directly into the top five list of battle engines in games 
 like it. By right clicking on an enemy just once, you will attack that creature one time, whereas 
 if you hold the right mouse button down and track with a creature you will attack it until it lies 
 dead at your feet. You and your enemies can all use Combat Magic - such as lightning and fire, 
 Nature Magic - primarily useful for stat augmentation and healing, and Melee or Ranged attacks 
 depending on their weapon of choice. One bonus that your party receives that your foes do not is 
 the ability to use Special Attacks. These range from projecting an aura of invulnerability to spinning 
 your sword in a massive circle to throwing dozens of ranged weapons at once, and nearly every one 
 of these special skills does in the range of 1000% of your typical attack damage for a short period 
 of time. Obviously these abilities would make the game exceedingly easy if you could use them all 
 of the time, and so their power is compensated for in your having to charge them through dealing 
 regular attack damage.
  
  When it all comes right down to it Dungeon Siege II is very fun. It's not as challenging as some 
 games or as extravagant as others, but it's fun. It's not as sweeping and epic as some games or 
 as long as others, but it's fun. And playing games is all about fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:37 am PT
Review:  The game is great but has some problems. Sometimes the game does crash or ends up restarting your 
 computer if you have a computer that reachs the min requirements. 
  
  But pass that its fun. The game graphics are sort of the same as part one but alittle different. 
 Story is nicely made and gives you a reason to kick butt. No loading screens *well sort of now 
 and then* and alot of stuff to do well sort of again lol.
  
  The game has problems such as your party npcs sometimes dont follow the orders given and sometimes 
 they die too fast because they dont attack the same target as you even when you make them do it (NOW 
 AND THEN) . Quests are nicely done but saves are badly made, they force you to start back at town 
 ever time you get back into the game after you quit and leave. Spawning seems to be unfair in away 
 due to if you die you start at town and have to go back and find only the creatures you killed 
 2 secs ago are back and you cant fight without your gear which is on your dead body. 
  
  Overall ok game for those that love the DS series and ok for those looking for a long game to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aletof2000
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 15, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  DSII, the expected sequel to Gas Powered Games Dungeon Siege didn't turn out quite as good as I 
 expected. Overall Dungeon Siege II is a good game, I didn't have any problems or bugs. When I bought 
 my $50 copy, I thought the game was worth the price, to my surprise the combination of poor character 
 graphics, the monotonous repeating sounds of weapons and the storyline turned the game not as good 
 as I expected. DSII has an "interesting" story, maybe kind of a copy from a LOTR epic books, but 
 it was acceptable, the game is very long and sometimes boring, as you almost never die all you 
 have to do is kill some wild creatures even though there are some mini puzzles and extra optional 
 tasks that you can do. The fact that you need to pass the game two times before having the announced 
 six members and a challenging difficulty is definitely a turn down for the game. The last boss 
 Valdis is extremely easy to kill , representing not a threat and concluding the game in an abrupt 
 ending after hours of long walking and killing expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately there were way too many bugs in this game, one especially that did not allow me to 
 go any further in the game. ONce I finally reached the Vai-kesh Prophet, BUG TIME! A cinematic 
 was supposed trigger a boss battle between my party and the prophet, but no cinematic ever came. 
 After countless calls to Microsoft and speaking to people I could barely understand, and to one 
 who claimed he had not yet played the game but was more than willing to help me with my question!!! 
 After I installed the patches twice and retried the missions countless times, I got fed up, yelled 
 at the Indian speaking operators and hounded them so bad that eventually they just offered me a 
 full rebate. It took about a month, but I got a full refund and my shipping charge back. Hey, Bill, 
 can't win them all, huh guy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanthelion
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 9, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  I havn't taken a break from online gaming for about a year. I have been playing WoW and currently 
 am playing BF2. DS2 has provided some great fun without the pressure/competition/intensity that 
 online games seem to promote.
  
  The pacing of the game is just right. Toward the middle of act 2 you start to get an idea of how 
 long the game really is; you won't be dissappointed.
  
  Turned all the way up, the environments are very nice and colorful as well. The lighting in the 
 dungeons are very pleasing. In short, the game just looks goods. I do, however, wish that the developers 
 would have spent a bit more time on the character models. They look a bit out of date. On that 
 note, the main menu screen looks like it belongs in a mid 1990's game and not in a current RPG.
 
  
  At first glance the skill system (the core of any RPG) seems trivial and unimportant at best. Once 
 you explore it, however, you begin to appreciate its subtle depth. Let me explain. There are 4 
 basic classes that you can choose from; Combat Mage, Nature Mage, Fighter and Ranger. As you gain 
 levels you can allocate points to "talents" for each class. This acts like a simpler version of 
 the Talent system in World of Warcraft. Where you decide to allocate your points has a much larger 
 impact on your character than you would think, essentially making a game with 8 classes. Let me 
 explain.
  
  Combat Mage:
  You have the option to focus on direct damage spells such as fireball and electricity or you have 
 the option to focus on death magic and curses. Thus, the combat mage class represents your classic 
 "mage" as well as something that rings of a "warlock" class.
  
  Nature Mage:
  The nature mage can take 3 paths: One focuses on enhancing the strength of summoned beasts and 
 pets, another focuses on ice damage spells and the last focuses on healing and buffing the party. 
 Thus you have the option to play a "beastmaster" a "druid" a "priest" or a combination of the 3.
 
  
  Fighter:
  You can take the fighter down 3 different paths as well. One focuses on dual wielding fast attacks 
 and echoes of the rogue class in WOW. You can also wield a shield and learn a Taunt ability the 
 focuses all of the mobs in the area on your fighter. This, obviously is the Main Tank tree and 
 is possibly the most useful for the fighter. Finally, you can skill up in 2 handed weapons and 
 play that "barbarian" swinging the huge battleaxe for slow but massive damage.
  
  The Ranger:
  The range can specialize in bows and crossbows or throwing weapons and can build 
 up some insane resistances to different types of damage. This is the character I play and I can 
 do some insane DPS.
  
  There is so much more to the game that I won't go into now. For a hack and slash game, there is 
 a surprising amount of depth and story. If you are a veteran of WoW you will feel right at home 
 with the color coded loot (blue is for superior items and purple is for unique powerful items... there 
 are also item sets that give you bonuses.. can anyone say WOW?) and the yellow "?" above the heads 
 of quest givers. You will find yourself enjoying the side quests and not hacking through them out 
 of duty.
  
  This is a great game and a great way to relax. I especially reccomend it to the burned out WoW 
 player. I mean hell, you get to play a priest, a main tank, a mage, and a hunter at the same time 
 without losing all your friends and family for 15 hour weekend raids of MC and BWL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levoth
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Gas Powered RPG Dungeon Siege is an execellent game, although its sequel doesn't followed its footsteps 
 it is a good RPG to play. Dungeon Siege has the same engine and almost the same gameplay. The graphics 
 is really more interesting and more detailed. DS1 graphics were great because of its bright colors 
 and great versatility towards a wonderfull gameplay , in DS2 the graphics are great because of 
 its high details , but they don't work well with the gameplay anymore. The sound is good, many 
 musics remember Lord of The Rings sound track. And many other remember great movies of action. 
 The sound is the most enjoyable part of the game. The gameplay remains the same , but with a little 
 diference , the powers. Dungeon Siege 2 characters can learn powers that can help them in battle. 
 Each class has its own powers that can be used with expecified weapons or used freely. The camera 
 remains the same, it rotates in 360 and have a powerfull zoom. The storyline isn't anything that 
 it seens to be in the beginning of the game. But it is an enjoyable story because of many optional 
 quests and diferents paths that you can find along the map. The map of the game have become more 
 complex , there are many secret paths everywhere and many treasures everywhere. The game focus 
 on magic so along the scenario you're going to see many magical building such as shrines and temples.
 
  Even with its problems Dungeon Siege 2 is still a great game. Worth Playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalheadben04
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I have in the past not been a big fan of RPG's. But latly as the graphics have gotten better and 
 the story lines more immersive, I must admit I have become quite the avid RPG player. Now with 
 that being said, Dungeon Siege two launchs you into a world of magic, bloodshed and mystery.
  
  Which is everything anyone could ever hope for in a game, movie, book, etc. This game covers 
 it all, From main and secondary Quests, to Conversations with people and getting to know the people 
 in your party well. It puts you in the game and makes you feel at home.
  
  So if you want a game thats going to captivate you in more ways then one, play
  
  DUNGEON SIEGE 
 II
  
  ScOrPiO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antraxspore
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 12:06 pm PT
Review:  DS2, is until now the best RPG game i've aver played after Diablo 2.
  
  The Graphics are just great and the world is well designet, i mean that for example when you play 
 you see bridges crossing over your head or rivers and watterfalls you can walk throught watterfalls 
 a encounter secret caves, the spell efects are impressive, you can sit hours in front of your PC 
 and won't become bored.!!!
  
  When I became the game in athe hollidays I ended the game in the first difficulty un about 16 hours, 
 after that I started playing in veteran difficulty and ended the game in about 13 hours at level 
 76, after that I started to play other games and forgot completly that I had DS2 installed in my 
 PC, when I noticed that I just had to end the Elit difficulty I didn't sleep that night and ended 
 the game in about 12 hours next day a sunday I sleept untill 12 am 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:11 am PT
Review:  Ok, for the most part, the game hasn't changed much, graphics are close to the same, environments 
 and player models are slightly improved, and the gameplay tweaked slightly. A lot of the creatures 
 are revisited, and tend to repeat through the levels as well. But I still have to navigate completely 
 with the mouse! Why can't I bind some keys for forward, back, etc? 
  
  The best additions of this new game are the super powers your characters can learn from investing 
 level up points in your talent tree. All characters get some kick a$$ smash 'em up powers with 
 devastating area effects or completely dominating single-target effects. One of my favorites is 
 the Shrapnel blast from a ranged fighter that uses thrown weapons, or the Lightning blast from 
 a combat mage. The talent tree (think Diablo II) really makes specializing a key to becoming a 
 really dominant force.
  
  I find the only really fun way to play is with my friends online or on LAN game nights, since the 
 single player is exactly the same, only you have to control all your party members. We have had 
 a blast playing through some of the better set pieces, like the fortress where you have to take 
 on a dragon with a mounted ballista, or the mulit-headed hydra that needs to have heads killed 
 in certain orders to be effective. The boss encounters are a lot of fun, and the mega boss monsters 
 are even better. However, I didn't find any of these encounters too difficult. There is lots of 
 fun to be had here, if you'll give it a shot!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurtus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Yeah DS2 was like just OK for me its not really up with the standard of NWN and Diablo 2 of yester 
 year and fable etc. There are some inthralling parts of the gaming like when you vs. Valdus at 
 the end of act3 and when you vs the two dragons later on in the 2nd act. However the storyline 
 gets a bit borring at parts, repetative and boring. And whats with the friggon coloured cubes?? 
 the only puzzles in the entire game are linked to placing the right combination of coloured cubes 
 on pedistals. *pfffff* It clearly lacks good programers with new and inititive ideas about quests 
 and story line etc. 
  The people who 'thinks this game is ausome and sik and that its great for a sequal' clearly have 
 issues and\or they are fuked up. Another thing is the lack of options when moddling your hero at 
 the start. 4 classes half a dosen faces a couple of hair types, and the list gose on. Couldnt the 
 produces have taken a leaf out of the NWN book and given us better hero selections? mmm kk now 
 for some good points. Like all RPG's it is satisfying after finally finishing the game and becoming 
 truly powerful through concentrating all your skill points into lightning abilities as a combat 
 mage. I also enjoyed the magic abilities and the 'families' of hero items, that if you collected 
 more then one item in a set it would give you bonuses. And also the fact that you could have a 
 party of heros and pets. These few defining features of the game is what as prevented it from being 
 a total flop.
  My advice to other RPG fanatics is dont buy this game unless your toatlly puss e wipped by the 
 first Dugeon siege game. There are plenty of others much better then this one. 
  
  - Tor'Truk
  
  And again there is no comparison to NWN and this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liger74
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  I play my games either at home, on my home PC or in an internet/ game caf in Amsterdam. At the 
 Mad Processor in Amsterdam they keep track of the latest games (SPAM!!) , look after their computers 
 and network in a very good manner and install the latest games. A great opportunity to check out 
 and play games and if I am 'hooked' I buy it myself.
  
  Since november 2004 I am an EvE player and loving it. But once in a while I feel the urge to try 
 something else. ATM Battlefield II and WoW are very popular in the Mad Processor (MP) but it isnt 
 really my thing. In the long list of games I opened Dungeon Siege II, just to see what it was. 
 
  
  The game starts with a long, yet styleful introduction movie, which I, with every new game always 
 look at once... took quite some time. You have to create your character, and start the first part 
 of the game, equal to your level, which is nothing when you start. You start with your character 
 in an introduction trench to learn about different ways of attacking and getting used to short 
 keys and dividing preferences; a good way to get started. The introduction 'run' ends with a movie 
 where you are captured and then the game actually starts.
  
  Now I wont describe the whole game with all its aspects, but what I do want to share is why I find 
 this game so fascinating. 
  
  You have a main storyline to follow, well described and in combination with the map you can perform 
 the tasks given to you pretty good. In the 'homeworld' (you start in a sort of town up in the trees) 
 you can also find NPC's giving you additional tasks with rewards. And its the rewards you find 
 in the game killing characters or fulfilling tasks that make you better and stronger. Works the 
 same as with Diablo II where you can fill the slots for your character, collect things, drop things 
 in a box for later -when you have the right skills- but in a a smooth running, great looking 3D 
 environment. 
  
  Also you can direct a second person alongside. The idea is that you choose one or maybe 2 classes 
 to develop your skills, and since I chose to be a bowman with nature magical skills I invided a 
 sort of barbarian warrior with great melee skills and combat magic skills. He develops as well 
 as my main character and thus we make a great team.
  
  There is more challenge in the game than the hack and slash of Diablo II, a better influantial 
 storyline and great graphics. If you have some time on your hand to play a game and want to get 
 sucked into a game and be challenged a bit, this is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabretooth11
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:58 am PT
Review:  Having only heard about Dungeon Siege I, I was curious to see if or not the series was as good 
 as I had heard. The screenshots seen suggested it was a good roleplay game on the PC and tempted 
 me to buy it.
  
  The single player begins where you are with another member of your party and are learning how to 
 play the game and to get a feel of it. Towards the end of the level you are both capture by your 
 enemies and have to do deeds to be freed. After being freed you turn to become allies with Aranna 
 and side with them to fight Valdis. This is where the the single player quest begins. The chapters 
 can be as simple or as complex depending on factors such as character level, weapons, party size 
 and others. They'll keep you going for a long time with over thirty to play and all of them being 
 around half an hour to an hours playing. There are also secondary tasks which you can play to gain 
 more gold and to have them ticked off in your quest journal.
  
  With you there are five other possible players in your party. These can be five pets, five partners 
 or a mix of the two. They help you by accompanying your main character in the chapters of the unfolding 
 game. To get the best party you need someone who specializes in each of the skills - melee, ranged, 
 combat magic and nature magic. When there are other players who specialize in each of those skills 
 with high levels it's soon realized how helpful it can be with some being offensive to some enemies 
 and others being offensive to others. The enemies on Dungeon Siege II are widely varied and for 
 every different area you and your party come across you can expect different enemies to face.
 
  
  The online element of Dungeon Siege was greatly praised and this one fails to disappoint. There 
 are three main ways of playing online. One of them is where you and three other players use only 
 your character to get through the chapters of the game. Another is where you have either a pet 
 or teammate with you and are fighting with two other players. The final one is where you can have 
 up to six (the maximum) people in your party and are fighting alongside one other player. They are 
 all equally beneficial but beneficial in completely different ways. The first one puts minds together 
 to work out how to accomplish the next part of the game, the final type helps increase the levels 
 of your whole party not just one character and the second one is a compromise of the two. The objective 
 of playing Dungeon Siege II online is exactly the same as single player and although it sounds 
 bad it isn't if you have people adding ideas to yours and you adding to their's.
  
  The graphics of the game are not what you would call the best on the computer but this proves to 
 be beneficial. Many games with good graphics seem to work slowly and have high requirements that 
 not all can meet. The people at Gas Powered Games realized this and decided to opt for a slightly 
 worse graphics engine. The sound however is perfect, you know exactly what's happening in the game 
 just by listening to it and adds to the gaming experience. Although the graphics aren't the best, 
 this doesn't mean they can take visual effects to another level. They are crisp and take full advantage 
 of the heroes special powers which range depending on the type of character you have.
  
  To conclude, Dungeon Siege II is a brilliant roleplay game that will have anyone addicted to whether 
 on or offline. The cinematic story takes you through the whole game and the online play will make 
 you want to help others achieve what you have achieved and also become the best Dungeon Siege player 
 around. This is also a change from your typical MMORPG these days and goes back to a more fast 
 paced game. However, whenever you play this game you're playing story mode all the time and there 
 is no change in that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryanxie
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:18 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, i like to say that if you're a big fan of the Diablo Series (such as myself) 
 then you would most probably love DSII. The skill tree and availabity of skills as at different 
 character levels are the same. 
  
  However, i felt that DSII improved on many aspects of D2 skill tree system. For e. g., ALL the skills 
 in the skill tree are only passive skills, such as inc. chance of critical hit, longer bow range, 
 or stronger combat/healing magic. This can avoid certain low level skills having only one measly 
 skill pt and the long wait to 'pump' on the high level skills, commonly seen in D2. These passive 
 skills, once having accumulated enough skill points, can lead to learning of a power, which i feel 
 is more user friendly to melee chars as powers dont use mana (thus, no need for mana steal) . Fighters 
 can conc on increasing their max hp and mages, their max mp.
  
  Also, as compared to using only one char, now you can control up to SIX different characters, so 
 you can imagine how much time i spent on devising the perfect mix of warriors, rangers, nature 
 and combat mages. Addition to that you have the OPTION to pause. For the slow thinkers like myself, 
 i like to pause, issue commands, sit back and watch my arsenal wreak havoc. Or you would prefer 
 fast pace, non-stop action. Which isn't extremely difficult with commands such as Rampage or Defend, 
 all at a press of a hotkey.
  
  Let's not forget the camera panning and zooming ability otherwise not seen in D2, which allows 
 players to enjoy e breathtaking scenery whilst chopping up some Morden. Health and mana potions 
 can be conveniently drunk by pressing H and M respectively, and only the amount used is reduced 
 from the potion.
  
  But enough about D2, let's move on to what i think are improvements over the original Dungeon Siege. 
 To confess, i didnt even complete DS, heck not even half. I was so hyped up about the release of 
 DS, only to be BORED by endless fighting and an almost zero storyline. DSII has shown improvements 
 to that field, providing a much better storyline with more characters and more familiarity to fantasy 
 RPG. There're also endless side quests with somewhat interesting and diverse stories, some with 
 even part two.
  
  One interesting aspect that i view as a good thing is e clever avoidance of power leveling by the 
 producers of DSII. This means that the further your level is away from the level of the monster 
 you defeated, the lower % xp you will receive. Meaning even if some dumbass lvl2 kiddo were to 
 have lvl 20 party members, watch his party members kill lvl20 monsters, e lvl2 kiddo will get what, 
 20% or less of experience? More realistic eh? ;)
  
  Overall, i think DSII sums up to be one of the most USER-FRIENDLY fantasy games i have always dreamed 
 of. Sure, it ain't that difficult to complete but hey, there's always veteran levels of difficulty 
 right?
  
  Enjoy the game,
  Bryan Xie (Singapore) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogerro
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 6:46 am PT
Review:  best game ever play  but too short. i cant wait add-on. 
 Like Diablo, Buldurs Gate Tales of the Sword Cooast or Neverwinter Nights. For those who enjoy 
 simple, automated combat, there's plenty of it here. There are often dozens of enemies onscreen 
 at a time. Solid game with plenty to keep you busy for hours. Dungeon Siege II does a good job with 
 its setting and maintaining the fantasy atmosphere. Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best 
 Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best 
 Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best Best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duduhbs
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is wonderful.
  
  i played the first Dungeon Siege and i liked it but this one tops it by a lot!!
  
  Eventhou 
 the gameplay remained pretty much the same, i like this kind of games , and the graphics improved 
 also. i also liked the fact that the game takes much more time to play, and the fact that you can 
 play in several ways and not just in one similar way to finish your quests or leveling up your 
 character.
  
  Anyway im still playing the game (only just began chapter III) and im hoping to finish the begginers 
 level soon.
  
  I havnt played the multiplayer version yet, but if it is the same as the first, then it shall be 
 good enough.
  
  Great game, keep the, coming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  I played this game a lot. The main fun for me was to play around with the different combinations 
 of characters I could create. The visuals are great. Whether it's the armour design, the swing 
 of a sword or thr flash of a fireball it's all top notch. With that being said I spent most of 
 my time in act 1. There is so much variety in act 1 to keep anyone busy for many hours. When I 
 had seen all I could of that I moved on to the story. 
  
  That's where I believe this game has problems. The second and third act were seemingly just like 
 the first. The gameplay got very stale and the options that were fun in act 1 just didn't seem 
 interesting anymore. The spells were disappointinging. They didn't have much variety. They have 
 loads of spells to offer but most are just higher levels of an old spell. 
  
  The ending to was pretty hollow. I beat the game hoping for some resolve but it threw me a loop. 
 I won't spoil anything here but the game is over without really defeating the antagonist. I suppose 
 they did that on purpose to make a third game. But in doing this they left DS2 with a hollow feeling. 
 I played all that time and didn't really acomplish anything.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesarjose1979
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:21 am PT
Review:  I played the original Dugeon Siege being a fan of RPGs I thought I would give a fair chance. I 
 just couldn't seem to get into the game now sits in my closet collecting dust. Now Dungeon Siege 
 II is an entirely different story. From the begining story I was hooked. I played this game all 
 the way thru in easy setting in a few days... I just coudln't get enough till I saw the ending...
 
  
  I was a little dissabpointed at that point but you know what I its a very entertaining game... 
 even thought apparently you have to play it thru to the end in all 3 difficulty settings... its 
 still fun to see just how powerful you can make your crew... :- 
  
  The fights are a lot of fun seem so fast you are usually outnumbered wish adds to the excitment. 
 
  
  Another great part of this game its player modifications. They really extend the replayability 
 of this game. 
  
  I probably spent a few weeks of playing time on this game already as long as more modifications 
 keep coming out for it I will probably continue to play it. 
  
  I recommended if you enjoy fast, hack slash style rpgs. It has a decent story you want to see thru 
 to completion.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilum450
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2005 10:13 pm PT
Review:  My overall feeling for this game is that it is a good game all the way around. There is good graphics, 
 easy conrols, and fun gameplay. Well it is fun due its close resemblence to Diablo II. It is a 
 true and tried system. New games like Titain Quest or Mage Warriors have the same look and will 
 probably the same game mechanics. The only way to differentate the games is the storyline, marvelous 
 graphics ie. visual candy, and something to make replay that much more exciting. 
  
  Unfortunately the storyline ofr Dungeon Siege II is fair as well as replay. The only reason that 
 I kept playing after the first run through is to finish collecting the treasure sets but hat quickly 
 got boring and tedious. (Someone please explain to the game designers that we the players like 
 the special sets and would like to get them with out grinding through all the levels. 
  
  The graphics are good but not as solid as the new real time rpg that will be coming out 3-6 months 
 after this game came out. 
  
  The game hook of having mulitple NPC's that I could control and control there skill path was the 
 biggest plus for me. I really enjoyed this ability. 
  
  The game is good but I think that the expansion if there is one will have to address the weakstoryline. 
 I know that they tried to add a new history to change the flavor of the game away from the typical 
 lord of the rings storyline. However they did not transfer the originality of their background 
 to the plotline. 
  
  Still I enjoyed this game. It helped me relax after work and that is why I will buy the expansion 
 and Dungeon Siege III when that comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdre
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I've spent more than two months playing Dungeon Siege II from start to finish and I've gotta say 
 ... it is a hoot. If you are familiar with the original Dungeon Siege, you will get a rush from 
 the apparent improvements of this one. There's more character interaction, a more detailed skills 
 tree, more detailed story line.
  
  But ... that all becomes old very fast. Really, there sill is no story, still is no real finesse 
 in the skill trees. This is team hack n slash, against hordes and hordes of enemies, and then infrequently 
 against tough boss monsters. 
  
  I love both Dungeon Sieges though, because of the flow of the game. In Dungeon Siege II, in the 
 first run-through, you are commanding a team of four -- I had the requisite warrior, archer, combat 
 mage and nature mage. I stuck with the same character throughout.
  
  This game is more about battle strategy than about actual combat. You draw the hordes, stretch 
 them out, and then kill them one by one if you can. Each battle can be a lot of fun, surprisingly. 
 
  
  The boss characters offer special challenges, but even the toughest aren't all the tough once you 
 figure out the 'secret' to defeating them. 
  
  Graphically, Dungeon Siege II is an improvement over the original, but only in resolution. Still, 
 it is an awesome game design, in my opinion, with full 360-degree movement and zooming.
  
  Dungeon Siege II is a bit mindless fun. Pure zen for clearing the brain. It won't challenge you 
 intellectually, or wear out your keyboard with fast attacks. It is a fun RPG game with bits of 
 strategy, with a nice pace and enough challenge to keep you going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devonnor
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  Game play is the same as the others DS & DS LOA. Overall, it is a great game. Great graphics, cool 
 monsters (but sometimes too easy to kill) . The surrounding world is amazing to look at. I love 
 the chunks after killing the monster. Some of the quests did get a little tedious but a little 
 hard work you are usually well rewarded. The finally boss battle was a easier than other bosses 
 earlier in the game. After completing the game the first time I really lost interest in playing 
 it again with harder monster, maybe because of my ADHD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CerpinTaxt85
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 1:34 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. However, i did not have the luxury of playing the first Dungeon Siege.. my 
 friends tell me this game is far better. The graphics are fairly good for this genre and the sound/magic 
 effects are stunning. Once i began playing, i couldn't stop. It took an hour or so to get the hang 
 of it but was well worth it. 
  
  The looting system could be a little better though. And battle's get somewhat monotonous after 
 awhile. Overall, it's an excellent game that is certainly worth investing your time and money into. 
 This is probably one of the best action adventure RPG i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 10, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  The closest thing I've played that reminds me of Diablo, the greatest game series yet, IMHO. I 
 never played Dungeon Siege (I) so I can't compare against it. I liked the story and the charaters 
 in Dungeon Siege II and overall, the missions as well. There were a few too many side quests for 
 me, and I would have like more time spent on the main plot. I would have been happier if the view 
 could have been zoomed out a little more as well so you could see more ground but that is a small 
 point. I really enjoyed playing the game, first as a Dryad archer and then as an Elf mage. The 
 sound and graphics were fine. All in all a good value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gackt_2305
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  man i love this game!
  the opening scene nearly kill me, gas powered realy know how to make a good rts game.
  
  review:
 
  1. graphic : quite impressing, the full 3d make the eyes dont get tire even if you playing this 
 game for more then 10 hours
  2 sound : blaster!!! but i got to admit that sometime the background sound suck
  3. story : the 
 story really make sense 
  
  there is some feature that you might not find in other game such as:
  1. the pet with power
 
  2. chants that you can use in temple
  3. lots of party member
  4. bunch of enemy
  5. lots of job that we can take (4 job, 11 variations)
  
  but the game is easy, with the proper 
 armor we can fight the boss only with 1 potion (colossal potion) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andre23
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 8, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  Companies try to make a game better than Diablo 2 type of game but for some reason, they always 
 fail. I have played both Dungeon Siege 1 and 2 and I can say that this one is a bit better. This 
 one probably has the same number of spells from what I saw. The game is easy and can be done in 
 about 24 hours of gameplay. From there you have two options, to play online with a bunch of 12 
 years old kids or start over the single player game to get new spells (with the same graphics) 
 and equipment. 
  
  For me I just unistalled it and decided to play Diablo 2 Lords of Destruction. I had much more 
 fun doing so, even checking that the graphics were worse.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OniReaver
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 7, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  I liked the game personally, it's nice to have a game you haven't played yet, and it's will grow 
 on ya. It keep you busy for at least a good 30 to 40 hours... if you actually take your time that 
 is... if now, well, that's your problem I guess. The sound quality was excellent, graphics are decent 
 given the time of release, it's a fun game to play and doesn't take too long to learn the basics 
 of, has decent replay value... and won't bore you too terribly... hopefully. If you're looking for 
 a game to tide you over for awhile, or have extra money laying about, go pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heath71
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:16 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege II is a great follow up and improvement to its predecessor. It is definitely less 
 linear and has several side quests that will have you running all over the place if you so choose. 
 The side quests do not interfere with the main quests and a lot of times coincide. Game play is 
 not the best but is manageable. One annoying thing is the fact that when you save and log off it 
 puts you in the nearest town and you have to teleport back to where you were, which is limited 
 to the teleport spots you have found. Spell management is kind of a hassle too but I do not necessarily 
 consider this a flaw. The variety of characters and environments is a big plus, and the secret 
 filled dungeons will keep you searching for hours. It is definitely an immersive game that you 
 will find hard to stop playing. I have seen better graphics, but they arent terrible. Sound quality 
 if great and there is lots of audio interaction with the npcs and environment. Overall value is 
 a ten for me, just because I love and good RPG and I think this one is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SixSigma1978
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 7, 2005 12:55 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing DS1, I was blown away by the graphics and the undulating battles (which 
 sometimes got monotonous.. but it IS hack 'n' slash) .
  However, being an experienced RPG fan, I was totally disappointed with the lack of character development 
 and customization. But MOST IMPORTANTLY, lack of RPG surroundings. Come on, 6 players battling 
 for 50 hours and not speaking a word to each other. Quests were sidelined and very rare.. You had 
 to hack your way through ONE BIG primary quest and collect loot. 
  
  DS2 was supposed to over come these black holes to give a more deeper RPG experience. Admittedly, 
 the game has some elements that differentiate it from the blandness of DS1. However, its way to 
 dated for satisfaction. For starters, the character pixelization even @ the highest setting (they 
 look like rag voodoo dolls rather than a stereotypic battle hungry RPG mootchak) . is a big disappointment. 
 Even the object details seem dated, which makes me wonder whether the graphics engine was really 
 worthy for release in 2005. 
  Heck, there's nothing that wants me to "go back" and start playing it once Ive switched it off 
 and closed the desktop. (Remember Gothic 2?? God that was a PULLER!!!)
  
  Finally, the developers thought making random tidbits of conversation between party members mite 
 spice things up. It doesn't work. It looks like the "missing aspects" of DS1 were clobbered by 
 adding small conversations like "MOVE it .. ur too slow" et al!!!! The clobbering doesnt work. It 
 seems forced and not part of the playing experience. Sounds seems quite good. The crackling CRASH 
 of a power up on boss seems to give the right OOMPH to the whole thing.
  
  The good parts aer the PETS and the easier party mechanics. With a quick click, you can aggregate 
 ur party for a combined slaughter on 1 big mob or rampage them (scatter) across to take out the 
 litte minions. Its a small but interesting addition.. I love this ...
  
  Still, much more could've been done to make this truly a worthy sequel. Lets hope and wait for 
 DS3!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  This game was really cool. I never played the first one other than a thirty minute demo, but this 
 game seemed to play very similarly.
  
  The story is well done. Some powerhungery dude finds a powerhungery sword and together start an 
 evil war because of it. You begin as a mercinary guy or girl in this evil guy's army and are betrayed. 
 As a result you wake up in a druid prison for the side of good, your best freind is dead, nobody 
 trusts you and you have almost no equipment. From there you have to earn your way onto the path 
 of good to correct your mistakes and bring down Mr. powerhungery. Obviously the story gets a little 
 deeper than that, but that's the jist of it. Pretty predictable huh?
  
  The real meat of this game is in the gameplay. You create your own main character from four races: Druid, 
 Human, Elf, and Giant, then you beef yourself up by using weapons and spells you pick up and equip 
 to grow your character into a powerhouse and plow through thousands of enemies. Same goes for your 
 team that you can gather througout the story. It's also a simple concept, but it's very well done 
 in this game. A lot of customized fighting styles can be created and you can even train pets to 
 do your bidding. 
  
  Fun for anyone who likes a good dungeon crawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flishkin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 4, 2005 10:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is rather addictive and has seen me spend many hours playing. The graphics are great 
 (could have been better considering the capabilities of modern graphic cards) , but the level design 
 and layout is superb! Everything in the game works well, from spells to inventory management, movement 
 and controls. 
  
  From the beginning youre thrown into a world of fantasy and the quests are rather fast paced with 
 tons of various interesting creatures. The Quest Log works extremely well  you always know what 
 to do next, where to go next etc. The other new RPG elements (such as chants) are great additions.
 
  
  My only grip is the little "help text" floating window that appears at the top of the screen - 
 other than that, if you played Diablo or the previous Dungeon Siege, then this is a must! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beelzebub_CA
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:51 am PT
Review:  What's there to say? This game is Dungeon Siege with upgraded graphics, some minor tweaks to gameplay, 
 and a new 'epic' storyline.
  
  If you like point-n-click dungeon crawls that require as little mental engagement as an episode 
 of The Real Life, then you'll love this game. It's a well-constructed and fairly polished visit 
 to the genre pioneered by Diablo, and the designers didn't stray far from the tried-and-true formula 
 that have made the hack-and-slash RPG so popular.
  
  There's nothing about Dungeon Siege II that really sets it apart from all of its predecessors, 
 but that's truly not a negative if you're a fan of this genre.
  
  However, if you're looking for a title with some depth, a little more flash, and some character 
 and plot development, you're better off waiting for the much-anticipated release of Elder Scrolls 
 IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:14 am PT
Review:  I have played through about hald of this game now, I bought it as I was bored and trying to burn 
 the time during the last 2-3 weeks before the launch of the Xbox 360. It helped to pass the time, 
 but after playing games like Guild Wars, Morrowind and World of Warcraft I can't see what reason 
 you would choose this game over any of them. All the above offer much greater value and replayability. 
 Especially the MMO's! And Guild Wars has no monthly fee so there's no additional costs.
  
  Dungeon siege, in my opinion, is like a stripped down arcadey morrowind. Instead of 1st person 
 or 3rd person view, you are always looking from a top down perspective. Instead of having tons 
 of customizable skills and classes, you have a very limited amount of skills to customize, only 
 4 races and few customization options in terms of appearance. Itemization is quite decent in the 
 game, but as it's an offline game and the top down view makes your items relatively small and hard 
 to appreciate, it's not quite as fulfilling to get the "epic" items in this game.
  
  The combat is mostly what you'd expect, very similar to it's predecessor in that it's a simple 
 point click combat system. I personally don't like the heavy reliance on the mouse for so much 
 of the gameplay. I woudl like to see more accessible hotkey options and the ability to walk with 
 the WASD or arrow keys so I don't always have to click to move.
  
  If you're looking to get into an Action/RPG-arcade type game and haven't already played the three 
 games I mentioned further up, then you should give Dungeon siege a shot. There is, however, a lot 
 of other options that would be more worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shervinv
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 31, 2005 10:08 am PT
Review:  I'm usually not a fan of this type of game, especially since this is very much a console game, 
 complete with "bosses" and "powers". However, I actually enjoyed it quite a bit. Character development 
 is good, except having access to only 4 of your spells at a time is stupid. One thing I really 
 don't like is that while you're shooting, you can't move, so it takes much out of strategic fighting 
 and basically comes down to a click-fest and running away combos in all fights. I'm not done the 
 game yet, but another problem seems to be a huge difference in the powers of various characters... 
 lets just say I'm sorry I decided to be a ranger, when my mages are so much more powerful and versatile. 
 On the good side, the environments are wonderfully done, the quests and side quests are fun, and 
 I find it enjoyable enough to play it again with a different character when I'm done, which is 
 high praise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miloandrew
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 1:32 am PT
Review:  DS 2 is just like an update to DS 1, with a few improvements - pets, character powers, etc. Read 
 the other reviews, you'll see what I mean.
  
  I'll just jump to a bottom line with my "review":
  
  If you like collecting loot, and finding 
 that 1 piece of equipment that tricks out yer character, etc then you will love this game. There 
 are so many pieces and unique sets, etc. that your head will spin about do you want this one or 
 that one. Gold is basically useless in this game - except at the beginning for buying potions. 
 But half way through the game, you'll have more of it than you know what to do with - because the 
 items in the shops are WEAK compared to what you find stuffed up some zombies rear.
  
  Voice acting is horrible - what is up with Lothar the half-giant!???
  
  Combat is fun, though 
 your characters usually just kick-tush regardless of how many baddies are thrown at you. Usually 
 1 or 2 memebers of your team will be the ones to do most of the dieing - usually your mages. Whole 
 swarms of mosters will single them out. Just make sure one of your tanks has a resurrect spell. 
 :D
  
  This game is fun and makes some marked improvements over the first or LOA. If you liked those, 
 which I did, then you'll like DS 2. It's Dungeon Siege-ier! :) )
  
  Only thing I miss from the earlier games is "force cast", when you could cast projectile spells 
 wherever you wanted, allowing things like plasma balls to bounce around corners, etc. : ( I miss 
 that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit25
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  
  I started playing this game for a few days nw. This is a decent game with a decent storyline and 
 smooth graphics. I believe it has quite a considerably long game, maybe 20 - 40hrs, until now only 
 played thru a quarter. haha :P. I encountered some problems during the battle phase of the game 
 which when my characters attacks the enemies, the characters and enemies stayed very close till 
 u cant differentiate friend from foe. This may hurt the gaming experience a bit. Other than that, 
 everything else seems ok. Worth playing even though not game of the year material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkviperflame
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game and i was so happy. At last the second part of the popular game. The second part 
 is the same as the first. Ok, they putted two or three new things and thats it. It has the same 
 engine as the first part and thats bad. That means that the second part have the same graphic as 
 the first.
  The realy BIG miss it that you can controle only 4 caracters.
  Ok, that was the bad thing. 
  The good thing is the story. The sword, the sheeld and Valdis. And 
 autocast spels are the good things. Other things are the same.
  Dark Nemos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:20 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first Dungeon Siege and it is one of the few games that I have actually totally 
 completed from start to finish.
  
  So it was with great excitement I bought the next installment, took it home and loaded it up.
 
  
  At first I did think that I had the wrong game, the graphics looked like they were from 3 years 
 ago, all blocky and not very polished. But I persevered and created a profile and started the game 
 up. I have to say that once I was in game it started to look up.
  
  I went through the tutorial stuff, getting used to the controls etc and then eventually got into 
 the main part of the game and the old addictiveness (for me anyway) started to surface. The game 
 really is quite simple, pick up a quest, get some friends from the Inn and then go out into the 
 world and kill stuff.
  
  I like the huge amount of customisation that is available, from choosing skills to equiping items 
 etc. There really is a lot of stuff to find and collect. The information panels are a delight to 
 use, you can get to any piece of information quickly and easily and there is a lot of information 
 I can tell you.
  
  I have only put about 10 hours into it at the moment and I am trying to do everything and explore 
 everywhere before moving onto the next part so I will update this soon with how I am getting on 
 and my thoughts after playing for longer. I have also not tried the online stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dincerhocaoglu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  When I surfing in Gamespot, I saw Dungeon Siege. I take look at game and started to search it. I read 
 the games magazines, games rewievs in the internet. When you first time look the game its look 
 like Diablo II but its different. First of all you can choose your hero between people, elves, dryad 
 or half giant. You can choose your heros face type, gender, hair type and colour. When I started the 
 game, I loved it. I always interested in RPG games. Games story is very long. When you started to 
 play, you cant give up it. Its like bonded with you. During your game you face with very different 
 creatures. In game you can improve your character in four classes. You can be a ranger or fighter 
 or nature mage or combat mage. Every class has 12 skill. when you take skill points, you can spend 
 them in you special class. During the game you can hire (max to 5) another characters or animals. As 
 I said the story takes very long time. Its about 10 or 12 hours and it isnt repeating same things. So 
 that you dont get bored. Finally graphics are very good but it could be better. Sounds are not very 
 good. Maybe the sound could dub better. But you cant take yourself from Dungeon Sieges world. Everytime 
 story is getting long and interesting. If you searching a good RPG like diablo or something else, you 
 must try Dungeon Siege II... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonoid42
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 3:24 am PT
Review:  DSII is a game that focuses on a few points and absolutely nails them. It has decent graphics, 
 decent gameplay, and a good story. Some of the improvements over its predecessor are quite obvious 
 after you've played them both: the interface, and flow/pacing of the game.
  
  One thing about the game that drove me nuts was the ???/mysterious quest. I managed to find two 
 of the items on my own (spoiler: the helm and the book) , and used gamespot to find the third and 
 what to do with them all, but I left the rest to discovery... and man was I annoyed when I did. 
 This plays in part to the next thing I have to say about the game...
  
  I really enjoyed this game for the 98 hours that I played it, but I was rather disappointed with 
 the fact that I had to replay the entire game twice with absolutely no change to anything in order 
 to get more than four party members. I know they were trying to expand the game for item grabbing 
 and leveling purposes, but I really didn't like that method of doing it. It also drove me nuts 
 that the mysterious quest (mild spoiler) required me to have a party with characters at least in 
 their 60s to take out the enemies that lie ahead. 
  
  Overall I'd say it's a good game, worth a play if you like HnS. Nothing revolutionary by any means, 
 but still has the potential to keep you at your computer for a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashultis
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the Dungeon Siege series since it's first release and it's expansion back. 
 So since I first heard of Dungeon Siege 2, I knew it was on my wish list. There's a lot to like 
 about Dungeon Siege and there's even more to love about Dungeon Siege 2.
  
  Improvements from the Original
  - All new power system that inflicts a ton of damage at your 
 enemies or a group of enemies. Excellent for clearing rooms in record time.
  - Skill-tree system to improve your character's attack by increasing characteristics like attack 
 speed, hp recovery rate, ability to freeze enemies in place
  - Teleporters that allow you to easily transport from one area to another to easily get to and 
 from shops (even teleport spells that go directly back to the shop and back to the area you left 
 from)
  - Shops now actually upgrade as you progress through the game (i. e. no need to find another town 
 to find improved items)
  - Secondary Quests that involve going back to areas you have cleared to get new items (some quests 
 only unlockable by certain key characters)
  - Pets, which are different in each area you go. Some pets actually require getting unlocked through 
 secondary quests.
  - Graphics are pretty detailed, ability to zoom in and rotate around your character for any type 
 of view. Enchanted weapons glow and reflect the type of enchantment given.
  - You can now enchant certain items with reagents of your choice.
  - More loot, items, and gold 
 - Rare items galore, even item sets you will see duplicated
  - End bosses are HUGE and require a bit of strategy to defeat
  - There are a few secondary quests 
 that require you to solve a puzzle or complete a riddle (proving it's not just a hack/slash game)
 
  - 3 levels of difficulty, each one unlocked after you complete the previous one (Mercenary, Veteran, 
 Elite)
  - 4 same classes - Fighter, Ranged, Nature Mage, Combat Mage - but now you can specialize within 
 the class. A fighter, for example, can either choose to equip a shield, a two-handed weapon, or 
 dual wield. Each with it's own unique powers for that class.
  - Everybody FINALLY has a voice, not just important quest NPCs
  - You can't just save wherever 
 you are and get back to that area if you die. When you die, you either have to pay the Necormancer 
 to get back your gear for you and lose 25% of your gold on hand or walk back there with only the 
 stuff in your backpack and retrieve it manually by getting near your tombstone. You actually have 
 to watch your team carefully so you don't get wiped out.
  
  What needs to be improved
  - Characters (like the original) can get stuck on small bits of terrain and may require some clicking 
 to get them out
  - Some may argue graphics are not innovative but it wouldn't have the same feel of a Dungeon Siege 
 game if it was rebuilt. 
  - In Veteran/Elite mode the game is replayed from the beginning, but the story no longer makes 
 sense. Good though for loot finding to increase your character long after the game is done.
  - You can't remove lower level characters stored in the Inn in Veteran mode (but balanced by increasing 
 their level after being 20 levels above them)
  
  All in all, this is an excellent game. Completely recommended for the RPG for the advanced and 
 beginner RPG gamer. It's addictive and satisfying all in one. It has lots of replayability because 
 you can do this game multiple times and each time choose a different set of characters to join 
 in your battle. You can even go alone with a party of pets. The party will even talk throughout 
 the game about what is happening to the world around them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riviereflo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game to me is great, and i had this thought from only watching it on videos. But now that 
 i haved played i have realised its better than i thought, i think its mostly to do with the AI 
 and gameplay but the grpahics make it a great game too. Its just really fun and that u can concentrate 
 on a certai amount of players and have a wide range of skills and shiny weapns and equipment to 
 use. :D
  
  Well i not really too sure on what the first one was like but any improvements they may have made 
 is great and it they came out with a great result too. i'm hoping that the developers of this game 
 will come out with more games just like this and make any improvements to the game that i don't 
 see is necessary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SevenOf_9
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 19, 2005 11:33 am PT
Review:  Immersing in the World of Dungeon Siege 2... the plot takes you from places to places... trying 
 to catch up with a 'runaway wagon'. It has a normal story line where the Big Boss will be waiting 
 for you right at the end of the game giving to that chance to defeat him. The plot definitely sounds 
 very generic and common... but the fact that you have the ability to recruit party members of different 
 skills mastery and let them evolve really gives you options and excitement in strategizing a scheme 
 to defeat your enemies.
  
  In some parts of the game, the bosses will have certain weakness towards some form of attack. Therefore 
 having party members with different ability inclination is a good way to go about the game. Moreover, 
 you can have control over them anytime. 
  
  In any case, along the line of defeating the smaller minions which always mobs up against your 
 party, having a breather pause time will allow you to select between characters and equiping them 
 with the correct spells or weapons to 'clean up the area'. 
  
  Its also a pleasure to see your characters grow into formidable and reliable fighters or caster. 
 Some being defenders and some doing the actual offensive destructive moves that comes along your 
 way. Plus having them around really feels as if they are your companions with some funny conversations 
 poping up here and there. Kind of reminding you that they are not just AIs dummies but really strategic 
 and there for a purpose
  
  The main plot itself is exciting. Going after a mad power evil "Demon" who thinks he is the incarnation 
 of another Ultimate Evil doer. There are side plots that needs to be completed before the main 
 plot starts resuming again. Addictive as it is, it can be quite tiring running around the detailed 
 3D world and some times even dizzy as after a fight, you can be misoriented with the direction. 
 Thanks to that map and its arrow, you will have no problem getting around anyway. The interface 
 is also simple and easy enough to use along with the usual hotkeys.
  
  I would say that this game is by far one of the best Slash and Hack RPG game that has come since 
 Diablo. With its active story plot being frequently reminded (narrated) throughout the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docturok
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Not having played the original Dungeon Siege release I was keeping an open mind about what I would 
 find. So far I have played for about 20 hours and I am ready to call it quits. My first thought 
 was that this was Diablo II with a different name. Then I thought, no, it's actually Neverwinter 
 Nights. But in truth it is neither.
  
  Dungeon Siege II has superior graphics and camera positioning to Diablo II but this is no surprise 
 since it has been over five years since Diablo II made it's appearance. The quest system of Dungeon 
 Siege II is similar to that of Diablo II with you being able to take multiple quests at a time; 
 solving them in either case is merely a matter of coming close enough to the goal. Also amusingly 
 similar are the "enchantable" items so like the socketed items of Diablo II. The dialog options 
 are quite limited as are the "Diablo II-like" skill trees. Dungeon Siege II does get extra points 
 though for being able to form up a party of useful size.
  
  To look at Dungeon Siege II after playing Neverwinter Nights I find the graphics and cameras sadly 
 lacking. Also missing are the breadth of dialog options and consequences of some of those options. 
 The quest system is similar again with simple, sequential tasks. Dungeon Siege II at least has 
 a journal that spells out, step-by-step, what you need to do all on the same page. Dungeon Siege 
 II does also have a more seamless transition from area-to-area. It is not made of big geographical 
 "blocks" as is Neverwinter. The party system of Neverwinter I find more convenient as I don't really 
 have to do anything to my companion. They level-up without me having to babysit and automatically 
 attack/open doors/remove traps... and so on. Again the party size available in Dungeon Siege II 
 is an advantage as far a having enough people to cover the needed skill sets.
  
  To finish I would not trade my Neverwinter Nights for Dungeon Siege II. The smooth transition from 
 area to area is not enough to offset the inferior graphics and camera controls. The larger sized 
 party is not enough to offset the need to frequently fuss with their arms, armor, and statistics. 
 On the whole; save your pennies for Neverwinter Nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aardmeow
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 14, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  It's kind of disappointing to get a 'dangling' conclusion to this episode.. 
  
  You were guided into expecting the knight-in-shining-armor to save the day, after having been kicked 
 around by those hordes of evil minions. The ending itself seems not to appreciate your effort though. 
 However, it does indicate a better and 'new beginning' theme.
  
  Gameplay's good, if you have played d2 before, learning this game is easy. But it'll just be passed 
 off as d2 lesser-alternatives as time goes by.
  
  Hope that those mods to be release in the future would be able to salvage its reputation/legacy. 
 In summary, you should try it if you really do have the time, isn't really worth the effort to 
 make time for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aedelas
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 12, 2005 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege II
  
  Since the first instalment of Dungeon Siege there has been little in high quality point and click 
 RPGs, Dungeon Siege II looks to rectify that.
  
  From the very beginning you are thrown into battle as you progress through the early stages of 
 the game. What this means is that from the start you should have a good idea what class your character 
 will be, either, a Ranger, Mage, Fighter or a Nature Mage. Its no use mixing and matching skills 
 as youll end up with a semi decent character which doesnt really excel at anything apart from 
 being average.
  
  Players of the first game will be pleased to know the skill system has got an overhaul, which now 
 allows you to customize your character to the way you desire. As your character progresses and 
 becomes more proficient in his or her field of expertise, you can choose from a selection of skills, 
 thus allowing you to wield what skills you want and if you meet the requirements, when you want. 
 Theres nothing to say you cant keep putting all your skill points in one skill for your first 
 ten points then your next five points into another skill. Youre not just limited to one field 
 either, as mentioned above if you wish you can spend your skill points in different class sections 
 allowing you to have a mix and match, of two, three and even four different classes, but I dont 
 recommend this at all.
  
  Apart from the standard skills available there is also a series of special powers available to 
 each class which as youd come to expect offer you abilities and stat increases for a set amount 
 of time. Each power is on a timer so you wont have constant access to them all, but with the amount 
 of players available in your party, should the situation change for the bad, odds are youll have 
 a special power or two to call upon to aid you in your struggle against evil.
  
  Those of you that have not played Dungeon Siege before will notice that you have the ability to 
 create a party with computer controlled characters. Up to six characters can be in your party allowing 
 you to have a good balance in offence and defence so youre always covered should the situation 
 change.
  
  Apart from computer characters you can also have a variety of pets join you on your journey, some 
 including Lap Dragons and everyones favourite, the Pack Mule. As your progress through the game 
 with your pet you can feed it items to boost its stats, making it that more effective and keeping 
 it up to date with your parties abilities. Over all though, Pets arent really as effective as 
 computer controlled characters and many of you wont find much use for them, except for being an 
 item vacuum for all those items you find that you dont want.
  
  The combat system is great fun to start with but as you get towards the end of the game youll 
 probably be quite bored of it, but then again with each game lasting up to and not including forty 
 hours, thats still a fair whack for a game of this genre.
  
  As youd expect, the combat system is your standard point, click, and attack system where all you 
 have to do is right click on an enemy and your party will attack. Its worth mentioning that you 
 can hold the button down so as to stop you doing your fingers some injury from the constant clicking 
 (and you will be doing a lot.) You can also change a setting in the options menu which will see 
 your party continue attacking an enemy automatically after just one click.
  
  Some good news is that the artificial intelligent characters in your party are not that hollow 
 in the head and can actually do something without you having to cycle through them all every five 
 seconds. You can direct all the party with a variety of settings such as Mirror, which will see 
 everyone copy your attacks and movement, or Rampage, which as the name suggests will see everyone 
 do their own thing and attack anything that so much as moves an inch.
  
  You can also set each party members to have some skills cast automatically, which is very useful, 
 especially if you have a few mages with the heal ability.
  
  As with any sequel, you would expect the graphics to improve and they have, and although they do 
 look a bit rushed in some areas, the overall graphic look is very impressive and does enough to 
 ensure Dungeon Siege II keeps up with the competition. The skill effects are quite nice and the 
 character animation is very good, especially in combat. With each character moving smoothly and 
 stutter free you can expect your battles to look very eye pleasing.
  
  There are a few things that let the game down, but once again they are all the small things, but 
 sadly they mount up enough to stop the game from getting a higher score and being almost complete.
 
  
  The difficulty is one of these areas as many of the experienced players will find it far to easy 
 to plough through and despite having three difficulty settings, you have to complete the predecessors 
 before each one before playing the harder settings.
  
  The game also offers the standard Co Operative multiplayer mode which is good fun if youre just 
 starting the game for the first time and happen to have a friend on standby, otherwise you may 
 both find it a tad boring as you play through the game with the knowledge of each and every quest 
 stored away in your fountains of gaming knowledge.
  
  Id easily recommend the game to any fan of the genre as you wont be disappointed, the game is 
 good fun and although it lacks a little depth is worth picking up to hold you going until the next 
 big release.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspadeaspade
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Taken on its own, this would be a mediocre Diablo clone . Mostly bug free, acceptable graphics, 
 straight forward interface, click click click through the night to get one more level or find one 
 more rare piece of magic loot. 
  
  There's only one fly in the ointment, but it's a egregious one - the combat is so easy as to be 
 better categorized as harvesting. Not only do you never die, you never even come close to dying. 
 The enemies can barely hurt you, have 3 gajillion health, and you bash at them uneventfully for 
 minutes on end.
  
  The significant innovation in this game is you get a whole party of sycophants to tag along with 
 you. This doesn't work out as well as it could, because their pathfinding AI doesn't work very 
 well. One or more of them are inevitably left behind when you go down a lift, or standing behind 
 a pillar dumbly shooting arrows into it. Of course this doesn't matter, because the monsters won't 
 kill you either way, but it's not encouraging.
  
  Put up against the original Dungeon Siege, not only is it not a worthy successor, it isn't even 
 close to as good as the original - or even close to good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RX220
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 11, 2005 9:23 am PT
Review:  I finished all the main quests up through ELITE difficulty!
  
  The best bow for MY GUY is still an enchanted one with 4 +22 min damage ingredients, this doesn't 
 seem right, at all, but it's far superior damage wise to any I have found with FASTER speed.
  
  Anyhow, I did enjoy the game a lot, which is important! 8)
  
  I got a party of 6, my final 
 layout is such:
  
  2 Melee fighters
  2 archers including, MY GUY
  1 Natural Magician
  1 Combat Magician
  
  Pets just didn't cut it for me after some point in Veteran, I forgot when 
 I made the switch, but never looked back after dumping them, except to use as MULES left in the 
 INN.
  
  OK, so I have a 6 member party of level 81-85s and there is basically nothing left to really do 
 but item hunt, sure I could knock off every secondary quest in all 3 difficulties, but it's just 
 tedious and not that much fun.
  
  So in closing, I enjoyed it, and the plot leaves expansion EXPECTED! 
  Problem is, I bet it takes 
 too long to come out.
  
  If you didn't like Dungeon Siege 1, definitely skip this.
  
  -R
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertkill
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:42 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege 2 is a very good game however it sins in the graphs. Its jogabilidade is equal to 
 the Dungeon Siege and Dungeon Sige Legend of Arrana but it is a little more easy than they. 
  Dungeon Siege 2 needs new rightnesss as in the graph. The system of abilities is very interesting 
 but the times a little exaggerated.
  When playing Dungeon Siege 2 I liked them new features as the individual races and its specialties. 
 Magics news and stronger, good jogabilidade, different monsters. Excellent game but many waited 
 more as rpg more interesting as the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 27, 2005 11:06 am PT
Review:  If you like Dungeon Siege and Legends of Aranna, then you already know what to expect from this 
 game. The single player game is not bad, something entertaining for a little while, much like the 
 first games, but it is still all about the multiplayer. Becoming immersed in a session of several 
 hours online is nothing out of the ordinary for this game with a few people to jam with. The new 
 online setting to share gold means there is no more treasure hording, or at least, not to the extreme 
 it was before.
  
  The game is still essentially the same as the last ones, with a new story and some new items and 
 small things. This would normally be something a person could complain about in a game series, 
 but this game stays true to its roots and adds just enough to make all over captivating again. 
 Not everyone will like this game and will draw some comparisons to other games, but if you simply 
 want to be into a game for a few weeks and be entertained, look no further, it is as simple as 
 that.
  
  If your score even falls into the 8 range, then it is still a good investment, and the fact there 
 is no fee to play online is a nice attractor for this game. Give it a try, if you don't like it, 
 don't read my reviews anymore. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swervyn
Rating: 6.1
Date: Sep 22, 2005 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok, welcome to a ramble/rant on dungeon siege 2. There are whole things Im not interested in games. 
 You may notice that I barely, if at all, mention them! If you didnt notice then you too may actually 
 be a casual gamer.
  
  Dungeon Siege 2 is no exception. There are whole elements to this game that I really don't have 
 the time of day for. Yet I still played it for countless hours on end.
  
  Basic premise of the story is this - You are a mercenary, you've signed on in an army for the usual 
 reasons, loot and adventure. It quickly becomes apparent that your employers are somewhat bent. 
 When I say quickly, I may have just ruined the twist that occurs in the first 5 minutes of play 
 time. They are here in search of some fabled artefact that will give power and dominion and yada 
 yada yada. So its not long before you are betrayed by your boss and are soon out and about helping 
 the people that not so long ago you were chopping down.
  
  What follows is an almost mindless extravaganza of hack and slash! There is a story there somewhere 
 but Im sure I really have no idea what the whole point of some of this is. Anyways, I digress. 
 Your corridors of dungeon siege 1 are gone! Thats right! you have freedom of movement and total 
 control of your character... so now, knowing the hack and slash fans we are they give us the most 
 ridiculous map function I have ever seen, extremely vague quest directions and an apparent freedom 
 of movement! 
  
  I have however exaggerated a touch. Your corridors are now corridors with big rooms on the end. 
 They are joined to other rooms by more corridors. If you ever get lost on your quest never fear, 
 there is a great big yellow arrow pointing where your next main objective is on your mini map! 
 Unfortunately, knowing this, our quest writers have not put to much effort into describing how 
 to get to some of their side quests (which the arrow doesnt point at... mores the pity, so trying 
 to find that bone filled cave which is north of some ruins, is not actually that easy. It involves 
 going to the ruins, finding that North is blocked by a big cliff, we walk east and yes its a cave! 
 Unfortunately its the wrong cave. We check the map, I can see the bone filled cave and is just 
 near where I am right now... After about 20 minutes of absolute boredom and running around cliffs 
 we discover that the little man on the map that looks like it represents our party is not actually 
 representing where we stand!! Awesome! 
  
  Anyways, the story moves on and funnily enough for an RPG your character and his mates begin to 
 develop. There are four types of character you can create. Melee, ranged, nature mage and combat 
 mage. As in the other dungeon siege titles, the more you use a particular skill the better you 
 will get at it. It is important to specialise in a chosen field as a party of jack of all trades 
 will soon find that their behinds are being handed to them on a plate. You can invest in a range 
 of skills that are related to what your little buddy does most. If you are a melee focused character 
 then you can have a whole bunch of skills that improve your damage output and so on and so forth. 
 Archers have ranged skill boosts and Im sure you get the picture for nature and fire mages.
  
  Coming down to actual game play. It really is not that hard and everyone will quickly find 
 that nothing they come across will be very difficult. For your Mobs that are wandering around absolutely 
 everywhere you really wont need too much thought put in. Your party runs up, you hold down the 
 right mouse button and your party begins to go at it with whatever spell or weapon they have ready. 
 You will be fighting heaps of angry looking things. And eventually, whether through poor aiming 
 while you hold down right click, having the wrong spell/weapon equipped you may start to get over 
 run. Very rare. Fortunately each character gets these super power like abilities that really only 
 need to be saved for rainy days and bosses. Some do massive damage, others are like Area Effect 
 spells, but they are based on the skills you have chosen for your character. So upgrading particular 
 skills will automatically upgrade your super powers (or critical shots) . What tends to happen if 
 you are paying attention is they sit their unused until you find that bad guy that has a big glowing 
 yellow ring around him. The big bad guys in dungeon siege like to let people know they are the 
 bad guys. There are absolute bucket loads of little bosses. They too present little to no challenge 
 as once your characters have levelled up a bit they can unleash some awesome amounts of damage. 
 First time around you can only have four characters in your party. That, for the mathematically 
 challenged means you can pop off four super powers almost instantly and they will have recharged 
 by the time you get to the next boss. This onslaught quickly ends any threat that was there...
 
  
  The big bosses are more interesting... when I say interesting; there really isnt much about this 
 game that is interesting. The big bosses have zillions oh HP and do massive damage. Your healer 
 (nature mage) can auto cast enough heals to keep your party going but against these guys it comes 
 down to an almost attrition like battle. Your party gets slaughtered, your last guy runs away, 
 and just like other games your characters that are down are only unconscious and will soon get 
 up and rejoin the fight. When your party is back on its feet you charge back in and repeat until 
 the problem is solved.
  
  Im thinking that while the game looks pretty enough, there is some interesting animations (although 
 very few) , more often than not though, there is so much crap on screen you really cant see much 
 of whats going on anyway. What tends to be the norm for me is charge in, hold down right mouse 
 button until everything is dead. Then hit Z to automatically pick up all treasure and away you 
 go. You are going to pick up a lot of treasure, there is no real need to buy anything from a shop, 
 and you are going to be overloaded with stuff that can all be sold. So while you may find an item 
 that is a bit better than your current one, it wont be long before some angry 2-bit critter is 
 going to drop one better!
  
  So... winding up... we'll look at Swervyns' table of dodgyness
  
  Your game play? Its got 
 a story somewhere, and there isnt much choice but to follow it.
  
  Graphics? I've seen worse but it does the job and I still will play games whose graphics are out 
 dated.
  
  Sound - Voice acting? Well there are voices there... but I think they got the rehearsal tapes mixed 
 up with the final ones because it is so dodgy I chuckled like a midget Santa Claus. Poor! Insert 
 generic sounds for everything else in the game and we have? Nyeah its ok.
  
  Value? At $100 bucks a pop you are going to get hundreds of hours of game play! Replayability is 
 like Diablo of ages back, finish it on easy level, go to the next level and then onto the super 
 tough level! Ooh yeah! I couldnt drink that much and be here today! So it must be good!
  
  Reviewers Tilt - You can play this game drunk! You have absolutely no need to use whats on your 
 head other than to stare at the monitor! I cant rate it highly enough in this regard.
  
  Alright there we have it. We finish up on fair. And that is as good a word as I am ever going to 
 have something else come up with for me. It will kill some time, but at the same time so does a 
 six pack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowmutt
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 17, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Oh.... and did I mention the combat is 95% of the game?
  
  Pros:
  - Presentation
  - Interface
  - Graphics (not bad, not bad)
  - Music (although hardly noticeable, it does its 
 job)
  - Lots of voice acting (although some of it's lame, especially right at the very beginning... but 
 I'll take lame over none at all. Some of it's quite good though)
  - Polish
  - Automap (I like the stars on the map that help remind you to where you need to go)
  - No bugs 
 on my play through
  - Length of game is good; Pretty decent ending.
  - Different atmospheres (we have woods, desert, snow, caverns, etc.)
  - Can take screenshots
 
  
  Cons
  - Combat is extremely boring, repetitive, tedious, and just plain NOT FUN.
  - Not fluid when lots of enemies on screen
  - Unoriginal 'mirror puzzles' copied from other games
 
  - Can't save anywhere you want.... this of course leads to more unnecessary repetition.
  - Manual doesn't cover everything. For instance, nowhere in the manual does it say, press TAB to 
 bring up the automap. Be sure to read over the in-game manual because it includes many things left 
 out of the hard copy manual. By the way, the in-game manual isn't clear as to how you move your 
 character portraits in the order you want them. You don't just drag and drop... you have to hold 
 the mouse button down for a FEW SECONDS, THEN drag. Took me quite a while to figure this out.
 
  
  Indifferent
  - Tons of little extras that you really never need to use but they're there if you want them.... like 
 the incantation shrines. Tons of spells.... I think I used 3 or 4 the entire game. I never even 
 enchanted an item with all those thousands of reagents I kept finding. Why bother?
  
  Conclusion
  - Although I enjoyed Dungeon Siege 1 fairly much cuz it was a new and different experience 
 for me at the time, Dungeon Siege 2 is just more of the same.... and I'm just getting tired of all 
 this clicking on bad guys. More exploration & puzzles and less combat would have made this game 
 much better. The combat is just not fun.... creep 2 inches forward, click on bad guys for 60 seconds, 
 creep 2 more inches, repeat, repeat, repeat. And the game is 95% combat. They spent too much time 
 on the extras and fluff instead of concentrating on the main issue: the boring, repetitive, tedious 
 combat. But, I don't want to sound too harsh. If you like RPG's, go ahead and buy it. It's worth 
 the money I guess, but just barely.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: subyman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 6, 2005 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game combines the gameplay of the first DS with many new features. From being able to pick 
 from 4 different races to an actual good story this game is much more immersive then the last installment. 
 If you liked the first you will love this one, but if you are just getting started it may be hit 
 or miss.
  
  Graphics: The game runs with the same engine as the first, but with a few tweaks. First off you 
 will notice the spells look much more powerful and imaginative then in the first. Second the armor 
 and weapons look great. Any weapon that is enchanted will have a unique glow to it. The armor is 
 much more details this time around too. Armor types range from skin tight face masks (looks like 
 something out of Slipknot) to brightly colored mythril armor. The environments look pretty much 
 the same with new textures.
  
  Sound: Much better then the first. You can hear wild life while in the forests and the sound for 
 the spells gives it that extra effect. The voice acting is still pretty cheap, but it is better 
 then most rpgs. Also I noticed in a few situations the things they said made no sense. For instance, 
 I was playing a half-giant and my character asked Lothar (half-giant) what it feels like to be 
 so big...
  
  Gameplay: The actual fighting is much like the first. You can make it more involved, but its easy 
 for them to just fight by themselves. The added skill trees brings a lot to the table and it really 
 effects the way your guys/gals will turn out. I had a duel wield half-giant and a shield half-gaint. 
 The duel wield guy put out 3x more damage but got killed very quickly, and the shield guy didn't 
 put much damage out but he could take a beating.
  
  A great change in the gameplay is the dungeon layout. There are many more varied conditions to 
 fight in. In the first one it would take many hours to go through a dungeon, in this one you move 
 through them fast (there are just many more.)
  
  Story: There is actually a good story in the game. It may seem cheap at times, but I would lose 
 track of time trying to advance a little further to unlock the next part of the story. I won't 
 give away the ending, but it is satisfactory and open ended for a sequel.
  
  Overall: This is a game that you shouldn't miss if you are a fan of the series or of Diablo style 
 games. If you are a first timer it may seem a little long and drawn out. Worth the 50 bucks for 
 me, wait for the bargain bin if not a fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomslayer
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 4, 2005 2:03 am PT
Review:  I hate to say it but this game really disappointed me in the multi-player portion of the game. 
 As far as I am concerned DS1 had and has a better multi-player interface, it also had an exclusive 
 multi-player world that made it easy to join in with games that were long underway. DS2 seems to 
 have taken a step backward. Call me jaded if you want but I am going back to playing Guild Wars 
 which has a much more satisfying system for multi-player interaction. I really hated to give this 
 game a less then glowing review but untilll there are decent mods for it I will have another game 
 that is just gathering dust waiting for a rebirth MODERS HO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoeKob
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2005 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun and I was getting inot it but it just blew up in my face. The voice acting is 
 terrible and so is the story. There's nothing really to motivate you to keep playing. Its so pointless 
 and when you have to talk to people, you'll probably have yourself just skipping through the dialogue 
 because its usually unimportant information you could view in your journal. This game is fun for 
 a while but it gets boring and repetetive fast. I know its a hack and slash and all, but still 
 this was no good. Diablo 2 is still a lot better. Also, the outfits in this game are bad. They 
 make your character look like a real dork. There is fun in this game, just not enough to get through 
 to the end. Rent it, you'll have fun for sure. For a few days anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csm101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 24, 2005 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the DS games, DS1, DS-LoA, and now DS2. The first two games were very good, and 
 I greatly enjoyed them, but I have to say that DS2 is worlds above them, with a few small exceptions.
 
  DS2's graphics, cut-scenes and sound quality are all outstanding. Graphics aren't cutting edge 
 World of Warcraft, but still quite good, and the game plays well on my mid-range P4 system, and 
 even my much older P3.
  Gameplay is as simple and easy to pick up as the first two games; you'll never even need to crack 
 open the manual (although I always read them anyway) . I do miss the backpacks and potion redistribution 
 from DS-LoA; I don't understand why they left those out.
  But they are minor things, and I can live without them. Jeremy Soule's music is, as always incredible. 
 Sound is very good, and virtually every game character's lines are spoken.
  Here though, is the game's only real flaw. While some of the voices are very well done, many others 
 are cheesy and well, just plain bad! With Microsoft's money, why do they continue to just grab 
 people at random from office cubicles to read lines? If they would've ponied up for some quality 
 voice acting, this game would be truly great.
  Even so, DS2 is a wonderful game, and I highly recommend it. Run, don't walk to the store and grab 
 your copy today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 22, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege II (DS2) is a lot of things. It's fun, it's compelling, and it's a great way to get 
 a few hours of relaxation in. It is not, however, groundbreaking. It takes a lot of tried and true 
 "action-RPG" (the hack n' slash genre) stand-bys and improves upon them. In other areas, it tries 
 hard but doesn't quite make the grade.
  
  Gameplay shines. The interface is intuitive, thus lessening the learning curve. Additionally, there's 
 an in-game "handbook" that is a wonderful in-game reference. This "handbook" is full color, complete 
 with screen-shots, and is also broken down into well-defined subjects. This makes it very easy 
 to find what you're looking for. The tutorial is also well-constructed. It's built into the game 
 and is very straightforward so that it doesn't take much time to blow past it if you want to start 
 over with a new character. Between the handbook and tutorial, it's possible to start the game immediately 
 without even looking at the manual. The manual itself is good, with the main attractions being 
 the bestiary, background information on the land, the NPC's, and playable races.
  
  The developers have incorporated skill trees for each of the classes, along with "powers" which 
 can be activated. After activation, powers need to recharge, but they're worth it. Selective use 
 of powers can definitely turn the tide of battle. Another innovation is the concept of pets. For 
 those who played DS1, you'll remember the friendly pack mule. DS2 has taken it a step further and 
 given us a whole line of pets to choose from - pack mules, dire wolves, scorpions, elementals, 
 lap dragons and other fanciful creatures. A pet takes the place of a humanoid party member, but 
 they're fun. They start out as babies and grow into maturity as you feed them items. Their "growth 
 attributes" are determined by their primary diets (melee weapons for strength, ranged weapons for 
 dexterity, etc.) . Additionally, pets will earn spells, special powers and auras as they get bigger.
 
  
  Another nice gameplay aspect is the way the Journal is laid out. There are separate tabs for quests 
 (sub-divided into primary and secondary) , lore, and the handbook. Lore is also further split into 
 categories such as chants (temporary enchantments activated at incantation shrines) , quest items, 
 books, etc. Each category already has a box set up to show the relevant item once you discover 
 it. This makes it fairly easy (and fun) to make sure you haven't missed anything, since the boxes 
 are set up in order. If you have an empty box in the midst of full ones you know you've got a missing 
 item or tidbit.
  
  The graphics of the game are pretty. They aren't cutting edge by any stretch, but they're serviceable. 
 The cut-scenes are nicely done, and the amount of detail on armor and weapons as you zoom in is 
 remarkable. The interface and handbook graphics are nice and crisp. The place where the graphics 
 fall is in the world environments. Some are nicely done, others are muddy. 
  
  Sound is a mixed bag. Some of the voice acting is very well done, and other bits are awful. Most 
 of it falls somewhere in the middle. Some of the music they carried over from the first game, but 
 it's still beautiful.
  
  The story, so far, isn't anything wholly original. I dare say that there are very few original 
 stories out there, though, in any genre. It is, however, an interesting story, and it does the 
 job of holding the game together and giving you a reason to complete the game aside from item collection 
 and leveling. The cut scenes have been well implemented. They're a mix between cinematics and in-game 
 cut-scenes and really draw you into the game. There was one quest near the beginning that when 
 you return to the quest giver, he tells you that these creatures jumped out of the wall and stole 
 something from him. Well, as soon as you click on him, the cut-scene of the creatures breaking 
 through the wall starts. I literally jumped. Not too shabby for immersion.
  
  
  Overall, Dungeon Siege II is a great game. Sure, the graphics could be better. The same goes for 
 sound. It's got way more bright spots than shortcomings, though. It's really an enjoyable game. 
 If you're a fan of the action RPG genre, DS2 is a worthy addition to your game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scape
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 22, 2005 7:17 am PT
Review:  Its a fun dungeon crawler. This time it is more rgp friendly (If you know what I mean) and gets 
 you more involved then DS1. Its a lot longer and has better coop then DS1 expansion. If you don't 
 like DS1, then obviously your not going to like 2. I would have to agree with GS review though. 
 The way they did the game difficulty is lame. The story isn't that great and to go through it again 
 just to get the hardest difficulty would be annoying. I do think it was a good game though and 
 is one to buy once the price drops a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcguy
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 22, 2005 4:28 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed DS1 and feel this is a reasonable sequel so far. The issue I have is with stability. 
 It continually crashes on my system which has just been reconstructed from scratch with new hard-drive 
 and install of WinXP and all the drivers. Runs everything else well, but not this one so far. I 
 too agree with other comments that the graphics seem a bit outdated and "muddy" for a release in 
 2005. I still do look forward to playing it further if I can get it stable. The 2.1 patch didn't 
 seem to help with my stability. The game interface is still quite easy to learn as with DS1 and 
 should be a low barrier for newcomers - no need to have played the first to enjoy this one. Still 
 as others have said, if you didn't enjoy the first, then you probably will not like DS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolksWagen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 22, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  The original Dungeon Siege was meant to be a huge innovation in the dungeon crawler genre (or "action 
 RPG" in modern idiom) . Indeed, the seamless 3D world was a huge innovation in the game engine; 
 unfortunately, it was such a huge task creating the engine, the actual game was left behind. Dungeon 
 Siege II is not so much a sequel, or even an expansion, it is more in the nature of the original 
 Dungeon Siege remade with all the good stuff put in on top of the fabulous world engine.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  If DS2's graphics have been improved from DS1, I can't tell on my mid-range PC. 
 But, that doesn't really matter. The original looked good and the new game looks good. The seamless 
 world is still a marvel of the modern world and helps a great deal with the immersion factor. The 
 character models could use some work -- you won't want to zoom in too close. And there's no facial 
 animation in use during cutscenes; imagine mannequins talking to each other.
  
  But, this is a combat-oriented game and you'll spend most of your time with the camera pulled out 
 so you can see the mobs closing in on you. When the camera is pulled out, the full, lush nature 
 of the environment around you makes you feel you are really there.
  
  SOUND
  
  The music is from Jeremy Soule, one of the top composers in the video game industry. What more 
 needs be said?
  
  The voice acting, on the other hand, seems to have been performed by Miss Michelson's 9th grade 
 junior drama club from the local high school. Seriously, is voice talent so lacking that, once 
 Bioware and Obsidian Entertainment (KotOR, Jade Empire, KotOR2) have cast their superb games there's 
 no one left to do any other work? One of the good things about DS2 is the increased interaction 
 with NPCs (see below) , but the voice acting is so awful you'll wonder how much interaction you 
 really need. Turn the vocal volume down and click-through the dialogue as quickly as you can.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  This is the area where DS2 really shines. The interface has been generally improved. The four base 
 "classes" from DS1 return, but new player-selectable skill trees allow much greater derivations 
 from those four classes.
  
  Instead of just a combat mage, you can have a fire mage, death mage or lightning mage. Your nature 
 mages can follow healing/buffing, summoning or ice skill paths. Rangers can specialize in bows/crossbows 
 or thrown weapons. And fighters get dual-wielding skills. (Can we all say "Woot! Uber 1337 dual-katana 
 roxors!1111!!")
  
  The generic pack mule has been replaced with a variety of pets that actually fight along side you 
 and mix up tactics even more. There are more side quests and more talkative NPCs. You can actually 
 spend an hour or two wandering around town talking to people -- almost unheard of in a dungeon crawler. 
 (As noted, though, you may not actually want to listen to the NPCs, just "talk" to them.)
  
  Finally, the story, while a cliche adopted from the standard book of dungeon crawler plots, 
 is as serviceable as most other RPGs and actually provides you, the player, with some motivation 
 for the little 30+ hour slaughter-fest on which you must embark.
  
  Which brings us to the final bit of praise: DS2 is huge. And, once you finish it one time, you 
 can play it on successively harder difficulties (three difficulty levels in all) . And, since who 
 you have in your party determines some of the quests you can obtain and what kinds of conversations 
 you will "hear", each playthrough can be different in more ways than just new uber-leet gear to 
 destroy even more dangerous monsters.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Dungeon Siege II isn't going to blow your socks off. The WOW-factor of the seamless world is gone, 
 though certainly still appreciated. The story won't make your jaw drop (as KotOR did) , nor will 
 it make you question basic assumptions about good and evil (as many of the best RPGs do) -- you can't 
 even play the bad guy here, you're the hero, not the anti-hero. At the end of the day, DS2 is just 
 another in a long line of dungeon crawlers. But it's a very good one and will, at the end of that 
 day, leave you satisfied with your gaming experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamer13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2005 6:04 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the Diablo-style games. I really liked the original Dungeon Siege, it was no 
 Diablo, but was still very fun for me. This game, albeit not a bad game, disappoints compared to 
 the original and the genre as a whole.
  
  For starters, the graphics seem less refined than the original. Now I don't know if the graphics 
 are worse than the original or just that my expectations over the years have increased, but either 
 way, it was less than I would have expected for a game by Microsoft and a game released in 2005.
 
  
  The gameplay is fun, but nothing superb either. The game is very linear, maybe not as linear as 
 the first game, but still pretty much focuses you on one path. That being said, it's not very exciting 
 looking forward to play every day. It's a game I enjoy playing when I have an hour to spare. Anymore 
 time, than I play World of Warcraft.
  
  Overall I enjoy the game. It definately has flaws, but I yearn for a Diablo 3 release. Whether 
 this happens or not, this game should at least satifsfy any urges for the wait.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaBestEver
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2005 3:24 am PT
Review:  Diablo has reigned supreme as the Hack and Slash RPG king for the PC, until now. You start off 
 the game by creating your hero's character. There are 4 different races to pick from: Human, Elf, 
 Dryad, and Half-Giant, each with their own benefits (such as bonuses to dexterity, bonus to strength, 
 etc.) The customization options are not the most "detailed" I have seen in an RPG before, but it 
 does offer a nice variety. The thing I like about this game is that it doesn't make you pick a 
 class that you have to stick with. Instead they have a skill tree system, where after you have 
 used a skill for a certain length of time (melee attack, ranged attack, combat magic, or nature 
 magic) you can than use the skill point in that category and pick a sub-field to strengthen in. 
 The possibilities are endless when it comes to creating that ultimate killing machine, so have 
 fun with it but don't get too careless with the skill points and make an all around hero, because 
 in the end he/she won't be as useful. At this point and time I've only played this game for about 
 10 hours, but it's been a blast. I can't wait to play through the normal difficulty so I can go 
 on and play veteran difficulty after that. Also, you can find cool rare items in the game that 
 have glowing auras when equipped, another cool feature. All in all I give this game a 9 out of 10, 
 and recommend it to the hardcore RPG fan and the Noob alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 21, 2005 2:05 am PT
Review:  First of all, I must say.. compared to the first dungeon seige, the developers did a pretty "craker 
 jack job" of this release. I purchased the first dungeon seige, played about 10+ hours or so and 
 got a little bored. This was primarily because I was accustomed to playing the Diablo Series, Neverwinter 
 NIghts and Icewind dale II. But when I downloaded the "1.6 gig" demo of DS2, I must say "they definitely 
 improved the game's interface quite nicely". I was a little disappointed by the "7.9" rating that 
 gamespot gave it. The only flaw that I can see is that the game is a little easy (but that's not 
 always a bad thing) because the game has a very addictive amount of gameplay because of all the 
 improvements made in developing your character; from the Skill Tree, Ability to autocast spells, 
 and the "must so needed" impoved AI. The music score is done very well. The voice over acting is 
 "average" but who cares. Graphics wise, the engine is probrably a tad bid dated, but that was probrably 
 a good thing because it allows consumer's with lower end machines to be able to play the game without 
 having to upgrade their hardware. Overall the spell effects, blood and gore look rather impressive 
 compared to the first release. 
  
  All in all the game is good, Kudo's to the Developer's
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 19, 2005 3:57 am PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of DS 1. Let me tell you when that came out I thought it was breathe taking and 
 innovative. I heard all the critism about it being a slasher and clicker game. People said it was 
 another Daiblo but I wasn't worried. I played that game with my friends from start to finish and 
 never got bored. 
  
  Thankfully they didn't stray too far away from the original. I don't think its a better game only 
 because we have a couple new games out there that top this. World of Warcraft is a much better 
 game then Dungeon Siege II, but its different. What you'll get out of this game is more of the 
 good old sweetness you got from DS 1 just improved.
  
  Gameplay: The game is more indepth. With a bunch of different specialties and techniques you can 
 develope a character into whatever you want. And you can specialize in certain areas to make the 
 most efficient warrior. Attacking is more fun and you have to pay attention and control your main 
 character. I like it more then the original because it puts more pressure and focus on the player. 
 I give it an 8.
  
  Graphics: Basically they are sweet. Not ground breaking but a notch up from the original. I can't 
 complain because you can increase the resolution to 1200 x 1000 etc. So the game looks nice. Good 
 score of 8.
  
  Sound: I think they did a fantastic job on the music and sound effects. Same composser as the original 
 i'm presuming so you know they did a good job. Score of 9.
  
  Value: This sequal has a better replay value then the first only because it makes you focus on 
 one technique, one specialized character. So in the end you are going to want to stay another game 
 and try out different kinds of races and characters. Plus in order to get to harder settings you 
 must beat the easiest and move your way up. Makes for a fun game to keep playing. 9 for sure.
 
  
  Tilt: Bottom line this game is great. I give it a score of 8.6. I was a little dissapointed with 
 GS review but I didn't give it as high as the original because i don't see this game breaking any 
 new grounds. What it adds up to is a kick a$$ game that lives up to the name and will give you 
 many hours of fun. The integration of a story is nice but better yet is the transition from fighting 
 and playing to the cut scenes. Best part of the game is that you can play it COOP with 3 others. 
 COOP games are the most fun I have had playing the PC and the Dungeon Siege series now ranks as 
 one of my favorite COOP games. I think if you are a fan of the original pay the 50 dollars. If 
 you didn't think it was that fun wait till this game goes on sale. But if you don't play WOW and 
 you want an adventure game to play with your friends then this is the one for you! 2 thumbs way 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonhawk
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 19, 2005 12:20 am PT
Review:  
  INTRODUCTION
  
  The first Dungeon Siege, for those that don't know, was a party-based, Diablo-style hack-n-slash 
 where your main character would recruit various other NPC's to save the world in your typical fantasy 
 RPG style. The game was a success in many respects, but was harshly criticized for literally "playing 
 itself" and offering a somewhat shallow role-playing experience overall. Dungeon Siege II definitely 
 grows upon its predecessor and offers not only some nice enhancements to the series, but is a respectable 
 title among its RPG peers. Though grizzled RPG veterans expecting it to be the next "Baulder's 
 Gate" or "Ultima VII "will most likely be disappointed. If you can keep your expectations in check, 
 Dungeon Siege II is a lengthy, fun ride that does a good job of filling the void of RPG titles 
 that are lacking right now. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  DS2 definitely does things better than the first. Added in DS2 is the skill tree, which allows 
 you to allocate skill points to various feats among your fighting preferences. So for instance, 
 melee characters can add the ability to dual-wield, or nature mages can add bonuses to their healing 
 spells, and so forth. The skill tree system is very similar to Diablo II and certainly adds a nice 
 dose of depth compared to the first game. Also in addition to the skills, are powers that your 
 character can evoke to accomplish supernational feats such as enormous damage bonuses or invincibility. 
 The powers last for only a short period and need to recharge, so it's pretty obvious they were 
 meant to be used for the many boss and mini-boss fights you'll encounter throughout the game. Other 
 notable new features include the ability to enchant your equipment, a more robust NPC dialogue 
 interface, a revised UI, more granual character control (including the ability to pause and issue 
 commands ala Baulder's Gate,) and many more. You definitely feel that this is a real honest-to-goodness 
 sequel and not just a glorified expansion pack masked as a sequel. The developers deserve kudos 
 for listening to their fans and implementing many of the features they asked for. It's also very 
 accessable to new fans of the series, so no prior DS experience is required. 
  
  The gameplay will be instantly familiar to any fan of the first game or of the Diablo series. You'll 
 click-n-kill lots of monsters, complete quests (which mostly involve killing monsters,) collect 
 LOTS of loot, level up your skills, upgrade your equipment everso frequently, repeat repeat repeat. 
 If this formula appeals to you, DS2 is right up your alley. 
  
  The designers put a lot of work into infusing a good quantity of history and lore into the gameworld, 
 both within the game, and within the well-written manual. This adds a refreshing amount of depth 
 to the game, and makes you feel that you are a part of a rich fantasy world. The story, though 
 pretty standard RPG fare, is good and definitely becomes better as the game progresses. Speaking 
 of which, DS2 does not cheat the player in terms of gameplay length. Expect to sink a good 40-50+ 
 hours into the game, which is sizeable by today's standards. Though there are many side quests, 
 the game does feel somewhat constricted and linear, so this might be a turn-off to those spoiled 
 by more open-ended RPG's like Morrowind. The flipside of this though is that the game does a great 
 job at keeping the player from getting lost and allowing the player to power through the main quest, 
 if that is their desire. There's some replay value after finishing the game with the unlocked difficulty 
 levels and the chance to try a new character style and/or NPC's, but chances are it'll feel like 
 yesterdays news. Had DS2 offered randomized dungeons, environments, and perhaps randomized side 
 quests, this would have gone a long way towards extending the replay value of this otherwise notable 
 game. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The gameplay visuals in DS2 are respectable, but certainly not a mind-blowing improvement from 
 DS1, which wasn't bad to begin with. In many ways, DS2 looks a lot like DS1 with a little extra 
 lipstick and makeup put on the old girl. With all the graphic detail settings maxed out, including 
 maxing out your video cards own anti-aliasing and anisoptric filtering settings, the game looks 
 sharp and crisp. You get a wide variety of environmnts to explore including lush jungles, a variety 
 of cities and towns (including a really cool Ewok-style tree city early in the game,) barren deserts, 
 icy regions, and, of course, dungeons dungeons dungeons galore. Most of the landscape textures 
 are good, and the designers did a great job of including a wide variety of environments and monsters 
 in the game. Some of the textures though look and feel a bit blurry and dated, what looked good 
 in 2002 doesn't hold up to today's standards. The creature animations are mostly excellent, such 
 as watching a duel-wielding warrior slash and dash through opponents. The Gamespot reviewer was 
 right that the spell effects are hit and miss. Many of the fire effects in particular look a bit 
 blocky and dated by today's standards. Overall, the graphics do the job just fine for an RPG and 
 will be more than sufficient to those not expecting bleeding edge graphics in their role-playing 
 games. And it's also worth noting that the game plays very smoothly on even a modest system, and 
 is graphically scalable. 
  
  SOUND
  
  The good... the music, the sound effects. The game music was composed by Jeremy Soule who has written 
 musical scores for games like Neverwinter Nights. In fact, if you've played Neverwinter Nights 
 before, you'll notice many similarities in the music as far as style and sound in DS II compared 
 to Neverwinter Nights. This is a good thing, though there aren't many memorable hooks such as the 
 themes in Baulders Gate or Dialbo, the music definitely helps set the mood of the game and creates 
 a subtle ambiance that adds to the overall vibe and fantasy game experience. The sounds effects 
 are also very good, though most are stock sounds of slashing swords, exploding fireballs, whining 
 gremlins, crackling evil wizards, moaning zombies, thumping bows and crossbows, you get the idea. 
 Just like in the first DS, the sound effects change when you migrate from the outside world down 
 into the hollow, echoing depths of a dungeon. This is a really nice touch that certainly adds to 
 the immersion factor within the game.
  
  The bad... the voice acting. And it's bad! It's dry, off-kilter, and pretty much sounds like an 
 intern with zero acting experience reading a script verbatum, versus the professional voice acting 
 we've grown accustomed to in other titles. Some may find charm in the cheesy lines and their even 
 cheesier delivery, others will promptly turn off the character voices and settle for the subtitles. 
 The voice acting is definitely the weak link in the overall great presentation of DS2.
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS
  
  Dungeon Siege II is a great offering for those seeking a fun Action/RPG 
 game with a surprising dose of depth, a lengthy story, and a familiar style of play. Hardcore RPG 
 fans expecting the next in-depth "big thing" will get bored quickly and write the game off as too 
 lightweight. The game does grow on you, and give it time. The game starts off a bit slow, but certainly 
 gets better a couple of hours into the game. The new character development system and randomized 
 treasure add to that addictive "dangling carrot" and slot machine effect so evident in great games 
 like this. As there's been few quality RPG releases in the past several months (besides MMORPGs 
 such as Guild Wars and World of Warcraft,) Dungeon Siege II is a worthy offering. Happy Siege'ing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdedi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 18, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I played through the first one and enjoyed it. Just turned my son and his friend on to the first 
 version and got curious about the new version. Next thing I knew I had level 12 characters in the 
 DEMO. Now I have the program installed and my son and I are doing the quests together. The great 
 thing is there is no real LAG when you play online. I haven't tried using GAMESPY yet. The graphics 
 are great even on a 64mb video card (ATI 8500DV) . I do know that it loads faster on a 128mb video 
 card, but I suffer no performance issues. I know it says 'M' for MATURE, but it is FANTASY GORE 
 for god's sake. My son is eight and he has no problem with the violence nor do I. Overall GRADE 
 A! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lescale
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  I will make it short because the only thing what I'm thinking off is to go back to the game. The 
 first thing where I raised my head while listening to the review was when I heard: the graphics 
 look nice" on a detached tone. I must admit, they didn't improve that much from the first one, 
 but hey, there are not that many games where I sometimes stop to zoom in the details or stare at 
 the screen to get a good feeling of the environment. But what if the graphics of the first games 
 were already amazing? Everything looks more realistic and the magic spells, summons of special 
 attacks look great. The developers put a great effort in making the world alive.
  
  The other thing was:"gameplay is super simple ...". Ok, this is true if you are a bashing machine 
 with no feeling for the lore, the rpg experience, the magic possibilities, the special move combos 
 you can inflict on your enemies, your pet development or your item customization system (Just to 
 name a few by the way) . I think you can make the game as simple or as detailed as you which. Create 
 a standard party of melee, ranged, caster and healer or go the crazy way by soloing it as a Beast 
 master with your 5 pets your raised yourself. Just check the forums and you'll see that people 
 are discovering new stuff as I write this (if you read this on the 05-03-2007, stop it and go get 
 Dungeon siege 3) .
  
  The sound is great. I love the music and even if you turn it off, you can hear the forest/dungeon/city 
 live. The voice acting is not always that great, but some characters have very good voice casting. 
 The lesser ones can still be categorized as nice or funny voices. Until now I never wanted to skip 
 a conversation.
  
  The AI of your party is better then in the first DS, but could need a small fix here and there. 
 All in all, they are very responsive to your orders and are smart enough to attack the enemies 
 that oppose the most resistance first. The auto cast fields in your spell book are really nice 
 and gives you a thing less to worry about. Let those guys cure, buff or debuff themselves. The 
 potion distribution and usage is still the same and even if you just need to push one button to 
 ask your team members to use it, I find myself easily forgetting it in the heat of the battle.
 
  
  I could go on for pages and pages about this game. How it will occupy you for hours and hours. 
 Finish it and replay it in a harder difficulty setting, or join your friends on the internet for 
 a great monster bashing. Restart with a group composed of pets, or try to solo it ... The choices 
 are yours.
  
  One thing I love to use also is the Lore book. Want a break, open your journal. From detailed descriptions 
 of quests, to a complete list of your opponents (with description, 3D model, weaknesses, etc) and 
 pets, through all the books, magic songs and spells you will find... Well, I know what you'll read 
 this summer..
  
  Not a fan, big fan, occasional gamer, mother in law, dragon whelp or whatever... Go rent it first. 
 But I guarantee you that a lot of you will go from store to store in hope to find that last copy 
 that will be available ... Good hunting.
  
  It has is little flaws, but I loved it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretg80
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 18, 2005 4:16 am PT
Review:  I'm going to buy the game because I liked playing the demo. I enjoyed playing DS1 and found myself 
 addicted to it and the expansion pack. No, there isn't a great story or wonderful voice overs, 
 but the game does seem to pull you into the storyline and there was a lot of thought put into the 
 story. The story is simple, but deep enough to keep most people interested and running around hacking 
 and slashing is a blast in the game. 
  
  I'm an avid gamer and have been for many years. I've burned more time on the keyboard than I care 
 to admit. Unlike a lot of you, I never really got into Diablo. My kids did and they played it for 
 several years. The thing I like about DS2 is that it is easy to get into and fun to play. I was 
 able to jump in and start playing without ever having to open the manual and the interface is intuitive 
 enough that I could figure out almost all aspects of the game easily. The online help is way better 
 than most other RPGs I have played.
  
  From a graphics perspective, it looks to me like they just turned on more of the graphic power 
 from the first engine. I read that when they released DS1 they had to turn down the graphic resolution 
 because the average machine couldn't keep up. Well, the improvements are pleasing to the eye and 
 I really enjoy the water and spell effects.
  
  The music is great and adds a lot to the game. I never find myself tiring of the scores. 
  
 
  The AI in the demo left a lot to be desired, but I heard that it is much better in the actual 
 game (I hope so) . Chris Taylor said they had spent a lot of time on making the AI more challenging.
 
  
  I have to say that I did spend a fair amount of time running from large groups of enemies, so the 
 AI isn't all that bad. However, there were many situations that I thought the monsters should have 
 run away and regrouped. They do hide and ambush you if you aren't careful.
  
  Pets add a new dimension to the game and there are many improvements to the user interface. They 
 did digress in a few places, but I guess that is to be expected. Making design decisions is difficult 
 and I imagine there were many tradeoffs during development. Overall, I believe they did a great 
 job. I found the interface intuitive and easy to pick up from DS1, which I hadn't played in over 
 a year.
  
  I'm a big fan of Chris Taylor's games and being an old TA veteran, I can say that I'll keep playing 
 his games. DS2 is a fun game that is easy to get started with and I always look forward to playing 
 the next hour I have set aside. The most important thing to me is that I can go away from it for 
 a while and come back and not have to try to remember how to play the game. It is easy to play 
 in short stints.
  
  For all of you hard core Diablo players (I and II) , keep playing WOW or look at the lighter side 
 of gaming and just have some fun playing a little siege. 
  
  Anyone remember the killer chickens from DS1? I wonder what we have in store in DS2? Well, I'm 
 off to pick up my copy from the store.
  
  See ya online in MP.
  
  Bret 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImmerTech
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 18, 2005 3:32 am PT
Review:  This is a great highly addictive game. If you liked DS1 you will love this game. If you didn't 
 like DS1 then stay away because this is a lot more of the same except with better graphics and 
 more in depth game play. 
  
  GamePlay:
  The GamePlay in DS2 is very similar to DS1 except they got rid of a lot of the annoying things 
 in DS1. For example they added a lot of teleport stations plus given you a teleport spell. The 
 teleport spell allows you to go back to the nearest town whenever you want and then return to the 
 place that you cast the spell. This allows you to do away with all that turning Equipment into 
 gold stuff you had to do in DS1. Because you can sell anytime you want. 
  
  For those of you that have not played DS1 this game is basically this is a Hack and Slash Dungeon 
 adventure. You will explore Dungeons, Towns, Forests and even cities in the trees just to name 
 a few. If you like games like Baulders Gate or Diablo you will most likely love this game.
  
  Graphics:
  I can't say enough about the graphics. You will explore some of the most lush 
 3D worlds I have ever seen in a game. I could almost just explore these worlds with out the combat 
 I like the design of the graphics so much. Notice I say 'design' of the graphics. What I mean by 
 that is these may not be the most detailed graphics in the world they are just the most interesting. 
 
  
  Sound:
  Almost every character speaks. I can't even imagine how many hours of Voice Overs there are in 
 this game. Also the music cues are great. I love coming up over the crest of a hill and having 
 the orchestra come up as I get my 1st view of a new city or enemy.
  
  Value:
  This game is long and fun... need I say more.
  
  Bottom line this is a extremely fun game that 
 is well worth the money. I highly recommend it for those of you that want a fun hack and slash 
 game that takes hack and slashing to the extreme... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dapsone
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 17, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege II will likely be compared to other Hack & Slash games such as Diablo. Since I simply 
 never got around to playing Diablo, I would compare it to games like the Baldur's Gate series (aspects 
 from both the PC & Console versions) , Everquest: Champions of Norrath and it's sequal (console 
 game) , and then to some degree Neverwinter Nights = all of which, I'm sure, are compared to Diablo.
 
  
  The game starts out with some very nice CG movies and an introduction to the plot. If you pre-ordered 
 the game, you get a Graphic Novel which elaborates the premise of the plot further. The CG movies 
 are very nice and immediately draw you into the game hopeful of a delightful experience. However, 
 when you initially start playing the game; you realize the the in-game graphics leave something 
 to be desired. The graphical quality could be sufficient, I suppose, but the artistic work on the 
 items, characters, environments, and user interface are not as highly polished as I would expect. 
 Now; I'm currently taking a break from playing World of Warcraft, and so, maybe I'm spoiled? But 
 I expected a little more polish.
  
  Furthermore, the user interface is a little clunky in some areas and maybe not as well thought 
 out as I would hope, but it is simple enough and performs the few actions that you consistently 
 perform. Of help, there are a few keybindings that you can assign which help smooth out gameplay. 
 Of particular note, I currently see no way of chaning the layout of the UI, which would be particularly 
 useful regarding the large character tabs in the upper left hand corner which distract from your 
 viewing area.
  
  Otherwise, you are immediately thrown into a quick tutorial to show you how to use the basic combat 
 commands. This is simple enough as combat in DS2 is fairly simple (at least up to the first few 
 hours) . You basically assign an attack for a character (i. e. melee weapon, ranged weapon, or a 
 particular spell) and that character will spam that attack. You can also assign an Auto-Use slot 
 (i. e. heals) which the character will automatically use in appropriate situations. DS2 implements 
 a feature which forces you to command each attack; I HIGHLY recommend changing this as it is more 
 annoying than aggroing a multitude of Murlocs while trying to gank a lowbie NE druid. With this 
 turned off, you will initiate combat and things will pretty much take care of itself; while you 
 can hit the space bar to pause combat (ala Neverwinter Nights) and then make tactical changes prior 
 to resuming combat.
  
  Your party initially involves you and a second character. There are 4 classes you can choose from 
 and I find that in the beginning, you have to freedom of choosing what you want without suffering 
 any unfair advantage in combat.
  
  So, after getting into the game and receiving a few quests. The GAME IS ADDICTIVE :) If you like 
 Hack & Slash games, you'll like running around spamming firebolts and tanking mobs while collecting 
 loot looking for that extra +whatever ability. Simply fun for those of us who enjoy this sort of 
 (admittedly mindless) gaming.
  
  Real quick: my favorite part of the game = multiple voice overs, though mediocre in some parts, 
 is a very nice inclusion and I would hope for more in future games.
  
  So, in short; if you like this genre of game and you'r itching for something new to play, then 
 DS2 is your game. You'll likely enjoy your time. However, if you can wait until the holiday season 
 for something that will more likely be a hit; you may want to do so as DS2 is anything short of 
 spectacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  I played the BETA version of Dungeon Siege II which for all intents and purposes was the final 
 version considering that the full game came out not long after.
  
  The game graphically is what I would call multi-layer or multi-level 3d. In other words it's a 
 fully 3D environment, but you pretty much play from a 3rd person perspective although less of a 
 birds eye view than say Diablo II. Technically and artistically the game did not impress me, it's 
 a far cry from World Of Warcraft or hell, even Guild Wars.
  
  Where the game failed from my point of view, is I just was never taken in by the game. I never 
 got hooked on it. I suppose I shouldn't have gone in expecting a replacement for Diablo II, but 
 unfortunately that is the benchmark for this genre for gameplay. Diablo II hooks you with it's 
 slot machine style looting system. I'm not sure how Dungeon Siege is trying to hook players, but 
 I imagine it has something to do with the zero loading times.
  
  Actually if players are looking for a replacement to Diablo II the answer can almost be found in 
 World Of Warcraft, although the pace of the game is obviously a lot slower. The great thing about 
 World Of Warcraft is it essentially has no loading times either, except when a player enters a 
 dungeon. Also consider the game "Sacred" on PC, or it's newer version "Sacred Plus". While Sacred 
 Plus is not as good as Diablo II, it's a hell of a lot better than Dungeon Siege II. Now if you 
 own a Playstation 2 you can of course play the Baldur's Gate games which although they don't emulate 
 Diablo II are just as fun and are the same genre.
  
  You would really have to be a hardcore Dungeon Siege fan to buy this game. These are merely my 
 opinions however, so I suggest you consider downloading the demo version and testing that out first. 
 Beware though as the demo is quite a substantial download, read: HUGE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 343TheFlood
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 17, 2005 1:22 am PT
Review:  Insane, Heart Pounding and graphicly inhenced are the 3 first words you think of as yo start dungeon 
 siege 2, it lives it up to it's precedior even with a bit of a hard start off which really doesent 
 explan that much. as the game advances it begins to stand out more and more from it's procedior 
 with the fact that there iss always voice dialagoue and entertaining plot twists. The amont of 
 cut scenes make it feel a lot more story based and not confusing as the first one. The world itself 
 is immense with details and is humongous with lots of side quests which may help you later on in 
 the game. It plays almost as if it was a party based World of Warcraft except the combat always 
 stays fresh since you may be attacked by 5-20 ennemies as you attack. Overall it is one of my favourite 
 games of 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rburnett123
Rating: 5.1
Date: Aug 16, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  If you did not enjoy Dungeon Siege 1, read no further -- you will not like this game! Still reading? 
 Well, Dungeon Siege 2 is literally more of the same -- same engine, gameplay, and interface.
  
  The Bad:
  
  My initial impression of the game was very poor when I found out that, years 
 later, they were still using the same, outdated graphics engine of Dungeon Siege 1. While you can 
 run the game at resolutions of up to 1600x1200, the interface does not scale properly and the graphics 
 look absolutely horrid.
  
  Sound? Well, the voice acting is easily amongst the worst I've seen and the sound is, once again, 
 the same engine as the original Dungeon Siege. Hire professional voice actors and not the programming 
 staff next time!
  
  What's good? Well, it is Dungeon Siege and, if you are like me, there are not many RPG's out to 
 play these days! It is unfortunate that you are limited to a party size of four unless you are 
 willing to play the game over and over. This type of approach by the designers is absolutely retarded!
 
  
  Bottom Line: Only for Dungeon Siege *FANS*. If you thought DS1 was okay or sucked, avoid this like 
 the plague.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
