-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dungeon Runners
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/dungeonrunners/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Witty dialogue and equipment names.
 Combat is enjoyable for a few hours.
 Open-ended class system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some basic features are missing, and others are derivative.
 There's no story or lore to keep you interested.
 The combat and humor get old after a while.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.8, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 574 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NCsoft
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Jul 2, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This online RPG offers some witty humor and short-lived fun, but you'll be ready to move on after 
 a scant few hours. 

  Fantasy is so cliche. At least, that's what the developer of Dungeon Runners would have us believe. 
 In this online role-playing game, genre standards are alternately mocked and embraced, and you'll 
 experience a few snort-out-loud moments thanks to the game's snappy dialogue and humorous approach 
 to item naming. Not only are those Jarring Unclear Crystal Gauntlets of the Unrivaled Beetle useful 
 for absorbing damage, but they're a not-so-subtle parody of RPG mainstays (and by extension, RPG 
 players themselves) . And the merchant that sells you some of those wares? She'll send you off to 
 squeeze mutant puker juice out of the local monsters, which is fortified with electrolytes and, 
 like any good energy drink, is  extreme .  

           This looks a little familiar...      

  So Dungeon Runners has an antiestablishment 
 attitude, but ironically (and knowingly) , it cribs liberally from multiple online games, most notably 
 publisher NCSoft's own Guild Wars. As in that title, dungeons are purely instanced, accessible 
 only to you and members of your party; and like in Guild Wars, small towns function as hubs where 
 you can grab quests and hook up with other players before jumping into combat zones. Yet while 
 that game condensed traditional online RPG gameplay into a tight, action-packed thrill ride, Dungeon 
 Runners takes this simplicity even further, and to its own detriment. There is no real story, so 
 the comical dialogue has no real context and ends up getting old and tired. The minimap doesn't 
 identify skill trainers and most merchants; there are no social emotes; and other features you 
 may be used to (auction houses, complex multilayered quests, guilds, and so on) are either missing 
 or stripped to the barest essentials. You play Dungeon Runners for one reason: to kill mean beasts. 

  Granted, there are some features that make getting into the game nice and easy. The group interface 
 makes joining up with other players a snap, and you can immediately teleport to a group member's 
 location, which cuts out any travel time. Probably the most helpful feature of Dungeon Runners, 
 however, is the bling gnome. This little fellow, named Pope Sweet Geebus, is exclusive to the retail 
 release (there is a free-to-download, free-to-play option as well) , but he's ever so handy. When 
 a defeated monster drops gold, your gnome will scoop it up and the total will be automatically 
 added to your coffers. Even better, you can use him to convert item drops into gold while adventuring. 
 Considering your limited space for items and clunky, old-fashioned inventory interface, it's a 
 convenience you'll grow to appreciate.  

  Combat works a bit differently than in your standard online RPG. You don't target your enemy, at 
 least not in the way you might be familiar with. Rather, you simply click and hold (or repeatedly 
 click, if you like that sort of thing) the left mouse button to swing or fire your main weapon 
 at whatever enemy you hover your pointer over. It's more Diablo than EverQuest, and it can be fairly 
 entertaining for a short time. To deepen the system, you can assign a second attack to your right 
 mouse button, and you also have various abilities and skills you can purchase (or find) and use 
 in battle. This makes for a total of 10 skills, both passive and active, that you can equip at 
 a time. To make things even more interesting, there are no real classes in Dungeon Runners, though 
 the game confusingly makes you choose to be a ranger, mage, or fighter when first creating your 
 character. You essentially create your own class as you go, equipping skills and equipment as you 
 see fit. In turn, the game will assign you an appropriate title based on these choices. So you 
 might be a muscular novice arcane vanquisher one day, and a creative charismatic ice sorcerer the 
 next.  

  Unfortunately, the entertainment value wears off far too quickly. The dungeons have the usual visual 
 themes you'd expect (fire, ice, forest, and the like) , and because there's no real lore or story, 
 you just scour the levels looking for better loot. It's not uncommon for experienced players to 
 invite neophytes to higher-level dungeons in an effort to help them quickly level. In these instances, 
 you can reset the dungeon over and over, which lets you attack the same group of monsters ad nauseam. 
 Of course, you don't need to exploit these possibilities if you don't want to, but even if you 
 level in a more legitimate manner, the end result is the same: slog through endlessly boring caverns 
 while quaffing health potions and clicking. This might entertain most folks for 10 hours or so, 
 but even with a good group, you'll be ready to move on sooner rather than later. The price of the 
 inexpensive retail box includes a six-month premium membership, but the title simply doesn't have 
 enough staying power to keep you involved for half a year. Considering you can download and play 
 a less robust version of Dungeon Runners for free, you're not getting much value with the retail 
 product, even at its low cost.  

           The combat has some appeal, but it isn't enough to hold the entire game together.     

  If you took a quick glance at Dungeon Runners, you might mistake it for World of Warcraft, since 
 it shares many of the same visual attributes: a broad color palette, heavily stylized textures, 
 and an off-kilter steampunk world design. It's certainly not as technically proficient, though 
 its vibrant look masks its shortcomings rather well, at least in player gathering areas. Battle 
 zones, on the other hand, are usually bland and utilitarian, and spell effects are a bit underwhelming. 
 The sound design is quirky. Non-player characters are voiced with jokey enthusiasm, and some of 
 the music flourishes are amusing.  

  There's a player-versus-player server where you can duel other groups and take part in team deathmatches, 
 but this option isn't all that fun, and it doesn't add much value to the package. If you're in 
 the market for a new online RPG, the free-to-play download is at least worth checking out, since 
 you can eke out a dozen hours of enjoyment and get in a few laughs without paying a cent. With 
 the retail box, you get a six-month subscription for the price of four, and the bling gnome. If 
 you're looking for a full-featured retail game to keep you busy, however, better games are available 
 on store shelves. It's just too bad those other options don't let you don the Feverish Tarnished 
 Pop Top Ring of the Extraverted Butterfly.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jbird724
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This is kind-of a hard game to write a true, in-depth review about, but when it comes down to it, 
 only word word really needed to sum it up, and that's FUN! But since these reviews have a 100 word 
 minimum, I'll tell you a little more. I can't tell you though, how many hours my cousin and I would 
 log on this game and dungeon crawl and collect mountains of loot. Amazingly in-depth character 
 skill customization, tons of quests, hilariously funny, AND it's free to play! How can you hate 
 on free?? There is a $5 membership fee however to be able to use some of the most elite gear, but 
 even so, I got more than my 5 bucks a month worth out of it. It does run a slight risk of getting 
 that 'burnt out' feeling rather quickly though in my opinion. Also a pretty cool difficulty setting 
 feature that's a little unique. All-in-all, a must play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheReview
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Runners is a extremely fun MMORPG. The great thing about this game is that it's free to 
 play. You can buy the box for 20 bucks and you get a few extra perks, like the Bling Gnome, which 
 is a gnome that follows you everywhere and picks up all the gold so you don't have to click everywhere 
 to pick it up yourself.
  
  The Good:
  
  - Very similar to Diablo but with better graphics.
  - Lots of different equipment.
  - You should 
 always find someone around your level to help you out with quests.
  - PVP and PVE servers.
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Very few classes, only three - Ranger, Mage, and Warrior.
  
  All in all, 
 Dungeon Runners almost measures up to the great RPG of Diablo. I don't know why GameSpot only gave 
 it a 6/10 but it at least deserves a 8.5/10. Definitely play this MMORPG since it's free.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jumper48
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Runners puts some much needed humor in to a field that has been overloaded with WoW and 
 Guild Wars clones attempting to steal some thunder.
  
  The designers did a great job keeping from following the easy route of cookie cutter MMORPG games. 
 While you do follow the standard steps of selecting a character, making some basic physical appearance 
 changes and then going through a simple tutorial/quest beginning. You will notice the humor right 
 away. When the NPCs tell you things like "Take off, I didn't want you here anyway!" and people 
 are wandering around with giant pizza cutters, you know you are not following the pack here.
  
  Now given, there are the standard "Go here and kill X enemies" style quests, the thing about 
 this game is the humor involved. I would suggest playing this game for the humor alone. 
  
  There are a couple of options with membership: free, monthly membership for $5 or purchasing the 
 retail version for $20. With the retail version, you get 6 months membership and a Bling Gnome. 
 With the paid membership, you have a larger inventory, you can use all of the items and no ads. 
 Honestly, with the free account I still enjoy the game. I don't mind the ads and there are plenty 
 of powerful items that I can still use.
  
  If you are a serious hard-core gamer, either pass on this game or play it as a break from the seriousness. 
 It is more for the casual gamers who want to log on for 30 minutes to kill some uglies and then 
 log off. Though be prepared to become addicted quite easily.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberhamtaro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  After I got tired with lvling in Lord of the Ring Online, I just browsed through random website 
 and found the advertise about Dungeon Runners. "The mother of all RPGs," they said. So I decided 
 to load it and gave a shot.
  
  The graphic of this game reminds me of playing WoW at lowest graphic settings. The game lets players 
 to move around using WASD and QE keys and also allows the left click key to do pathfinder. What 
 I like about this game is that, there's barely any death penalty in this game. I can simply die 
 and then teleport back to fight the boss. To make it even easier, I can just right click on my 
 group member and port right to them without any cost. Therefore, it eliminates **** n' moans when 
 you group with other people. 
  
  The developer tends to make this game as a satire and parody. You can see the rat monster with 
 hiphop music in the its dungeon with his gangsta poster on the back of his room. You can also find 
 the Ratsputin's armies in Kremlin (I'm serious) . The story is close to nothing. It's more like a 
 joke you can laugh at it than the story that pull you into the game.
  
  The quest system is quite worthless. You gets either king's coin (use to trade for items) or gold. 
 That's right, NO XP from QUESTS!??!!? You pretty much can just run all the dungeons without getting 
 any quest to continue your game.
  
  The classes in this game is not fixed at all, you can respec at any time you want. Of course anything 
 comes with price, but you can switch your current class to anything else as long as you have money 
 to do so.
  
  Bottom line, if you're looking for some simple game that you can click click and kill the enemies 
 for fun. But to look for something meaning full or having intrigue stories, try other MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Beastmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  After seeing the GameSpot review, I had to comment...
  This game is more like a combination of Diablo series and Guild Wars, than it is like most other 
 MMORPG. Graphics of the game are exceptional for the games cost, and it's made for hack and slash 
 fun, with a bit of a sense of humor. Character-skill development is purely up to the player, as 
 to create the kind of toon you want to play. 
  The base game is free, and with the box version (bling gnome) you can get all the games goodies 
 for 6 months for only $19.99. 6 months, for only a slight bit more than it costs to play one month 
 of EQ or WoW. 
  After those 6 months, it's only 4.99 per month for premium membership to continue... or you can 
 continue your toons for free and just put up with a banner adv on the top of the screen with some 
 limited high end loot and banking options. 
  
  As for the review listed at GameSpot... when have you ever played a MMORPG game for FREE, that 
 had this much in it that also looked this good. The Gamespot Review does not do this game justice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mailbox2112
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Now, let me get one thing straight..... this is a rip-off of World of Warcraft. But it's a good 
 rip-off. In fact, if you play this before you start playing WoW, you'd think WoW was the rip-off. 
 Now, for the review.
  
  Graphics: Not as pretty as World of Warcraft, but it still looks good. They get a 10.
  
  Gameplay: 
 Take WoW and Diablo and you get the gameplay. The gameplay gets a 10. 
  
  Sound: Nothing beats the sound of talking rats.... 10.
  
  Difficulty: It varies, and everything 
 is soloable, which gets it a 10.
  
  Rip-off'ness: It's a huge rip-off, but it's a good one that you can overlook the ripping-off, so 
 it gets a 10 (Higher numbers are better than lower numbers.)
  
  Overall, it gets a perfect score, a 10... out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tester962
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 13, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I had alot of fun playing this game for a couple weeks. I got very bored of it after that though. 
 The game has 100 levels for your character to go through and I made it to level 35. Its alot of 
 fun but very repetitive... but that is inherent to most hack n' slash style games.
  
  Pretty much my recommendation is to download it and try it out for free and see how it feels. If 
 you enjoy the same dungeon again and again with the occasional different backgrounds than by all 
 means enjoy. The 5 dollars a month price tag is only for the people that want the higher end gear 
 and extra bank space among a few other things.
  
  You really cant go wrong with this game but honestly as said above I could only stand to play it 
 for a couple weeks before I just was far to bored with it to play it anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondPain
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  DR is a good game. Need somethnig to do for 15mins? Tired of waitng in battleground queues? Sick 
 of your "friends" never being online when you need them to be? Well i think i just might have the 
 thing for you to try for the low, low cost of free
  
  The game by all means isnt complex or particularly deep but its still a great experience. Dungeons 
 are tailored to how many people there are in yuor group and the difficulty can be increased if 
 you're looking for a challenge and the dungeons are quite big. 
  
  The gameply is like diablo but it can be done from a WoW point of view. Combat is quite spectacular 
 to watch and good (and most importantly) cool looking gear isnt hard to find. The classes are not 
 defined, as in yuo can learn any ability from any of the three classes meaning that you will be 
 able the find a style of play that suits you. 
  
  The sense of humor in this game is great with NPCs that sound like Monty Python characters (sort 
 of..) and guess what, they actually say stuff thats funny! 
  
  The ads are a bit annoying but barable and if you wanna upgrade by paynig only $5 a month, you 
 can! 
  
  Definatly a must buy, oh wait.. theres no buying involved.... :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ready2freeze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  It is based on WoW (World of Warcraft) with really impressive graphics and very nice gameplay. 
 Oh.. and yes... ITS FREEEE. 
  
  When you start the game, u have three races to choose from: Fighter, Ranger and Mage. Each one 
 of them have advantages and disadvantages.
  
  You start in this small wood called the Dew Forest. Over there, u get your first quest. 
  
 
  After being introduced to the game, u progress to other locations, such as Townstone.
  
  Over there, you get harder dungeons and quests. Now, the main idea of the game is going into dungeons 
 and finding bosses and 'farming' them. (Usually, players team up, 5 a group, and keep on killing 
 the same boss over and over again, rising their levels and points) .
  
  As you go along killing beasts and bosses, if you increase the difficulty, u get more rare items 
 and gold, but, unfortunately, no change in experience points. 
  
  The items u get come in categories, the best, and rarest category is mythic.
  Most of these 'mythic' 
 items are for members only (those who are willing to pay) , but, if you are as lucky as I am, u 
 might stumble upon non-membership-requires mythic items.
  
  There are hundreds of different creatures in this game, and thousands of random dungeons.
  
 
  This game is pretty new on the market (May 29 2007) and is still improving.
  
  It is also EXTREMELY ADDICTIVE. I once myself, have played it for 14 STRAIGHT hours. 
  
  The 
 PC requirements are also very basic, making it playable on almost any computer or laptop. 
  It does not require SUPER-HIGH-SPEED internet too
  
  So, all in all, this is one of the few 
 very good games on the market, with a few more races, it could even overturn WoW.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who doesn't have a credit card or wants to pay monthly for WoW.
 
  
  Cheers Gamelovers
  
  Happy New 2008 Gaming Year To All.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SubtleOne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Runners is an MMORPG strongly based on Warcraft III for the graphics, and Diablo for the 
 action and items, with a twist of RPG, and a strong dose of humor. 
  
  The game could be easily dismissed for a number of reasons, but the truth is it really has quite 
 a bit in its favor, if one is willing to give it the time of day. Interestingly enough, many of 
 its weak points are also its strong points, and vice-versa.
  
  The first thing that drew my attention, I'll be perfectly honest, was the announcement that one 
 could play for FREE. It's worth putting that in capital letters. This is the first point that is 
 both a strength and a weakness. The reason is that when you read that, the first thing that comes 
 to mind is what is the catch. Is it free because it was so bad the company decided it would be 
 bad marketing to try and sell it? Or is it free because it is was developed at the time of the 
 first PC, and is considered abandonware? Well, it's neither, but more on that in a bit.
  
  The action is an unabashed monster bashing romp, set in colorful backgrounds with woods areas, 
 dungeon areas, hell areas, snow/ice areas, etc. The graphics are not cutting edge, nor do they 
 try to be. They are extremely Warcraft IIIish, and while that may not appeal to gamers who put 
 together expensive systems able to crank out playable frame rates in games such as Crysis, it means 
 that people stuck on primitive systems such as mine, an Athlon64 2.2GHz with an nVidia 7300GS, 
 or mid-range laptops, can play it and enjoy a fluid experience along with everyone else even on 
 a 1280x1024 resolution. Before you start complaining, let's remember the cost again. Still, that 
 alone isn't a reason to play, of course.
  
  What separates this game from others, is its strong tongue-in-cheek sense of humor. This game doesn't 
 even begin to take itself seriously. In fact, it goes out of its way to do just the opposite. Expecting 
 to start with a *bronze* dagger and work yourself up to a Massive Demonic Vorpal Sword of Destruction? 
 Not here. Here, at the lower levels, you may find yourself with a cardboard (yes, you read that 
 correctly) junkyard mattock of hysteria in your right-hand, equipped with an intergalactic cereal 
 box ring of the bunny, and at level 100 may find yourself supremely armed with Sissirat's Brother's 
 Cousin's Roommate's Staff of Something Really Awesome. Before you think I'm trying to be funny, 
 know that these are typical, genuine items of the game. 
  
  The missions are often on a similar vein, even if they still amount to typical fetch or kill missions. 
 The humor surrounding it does make a difference in spite of it all, and it does give it a different 
 tone. 
  
  One can play alone perfectly well, or play as a team. The team play brought into evidence a very 
 nice feature that was quite novel to me. I'd played Titan's Quest against my nephews here at home, 
 and inevitably there would be quite a bit of bickering on the division of the loot. Fairplay and 
 good manners about being sure everyone got their due would go straight out the window the minute 
 a powerful item was dropped on the ground. So when a player offered to team up with me, I was a 
 bit skeptical on how this would go. Well, it was clear that problem couldn't occur. After our first 
 big fight, we immediately saw this was a non-issue. One pile of gold was labeled "Belongs to BonkMaster" 
 and the other was labeled as being his. And nothing we could do would change this. To further encourage 
 teams, the monster descriptions changed announcing that some had 38% more hit points, did 15% more 
 damage, but came with 75% more loot! And this included more quality items as well. Getting killed 
 and finding yourself cut off from your partner, stuck in a big battle, was a non-issue as well, 
 Just right-click on his name, select 'Go TO', and you would be instantly teleported back to him. 
 If you were the one left alone, and found yourself outgunned, running is a perfectly acceptable 
 option until your partner returned.
  
  So what about the *free* part? Well, the game does have, and encourages, a $4.99/month subscription 
 rate. Without it, you have an obligatory banner at the top of your screen, and you'll have a few 
 limitations on actual items. Only 25% of the high-range items are available to non-subscribers, 
 and you can't benefit from the larger, stackable, potion sizes. However, if you really can't afford 
 $5 for a full month, you can still play for free and have fun, and if you want the member benefits, 
 $5 it must be said, is really very little. 
  
  All said, I found it was well worth the price of admission, and great value for the shameless simplified 
 fun, good for a bit of escape. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Runners is a fun free game that any one who likes hack and slash rpg's will enjoy. The 
 point if Dungeon Runners is to go around through different dungeons and lands killing monsters. 
 In stead of clicking on the enemy once and watching your character fight the enemy, you know have 
 to keep on clicking to attack. So basically every mouse click equals a swipe with a sword or a 
 cross bow arrow shot, or a spell cast.
  
  You get to pick between 3 different classes. A warrior, archer, and a mage. Each class is fun to 
 play as and the controls work well for each class.
  
  The graphics in Dungeon Runners look good for a free mmorpg.
  
  Dungeon Runners is a great 
 game that you should go to the wed site,
  www. dungeonrunners. com right now and download this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tolkientje
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is an exception in it's genre. It's one of the few mmorpg that are free. For that alone, 
 it shculd already receive a 10. You can download it free on the site and jump in right away. When 
 you start, you can choose between 3 classes. These classes in fact don't matter, because you can 
 learn all skills of every class in the game. This is very good, because you can in fact create 
 your own class. And each litlle difference is described by another class name. You can for example 
 be a lowly fanatical musculed fighter. The graphics resemble to those of world of warcraft. There 
 is an automated party system, which makes it very easy to find friends to party with. This game 
 is as fast-paced as diablo was at it's time. And above all, it's funny!! You only have to look 
 at the names of items and you will know what I mean. If you really like this game you can also 
 subscribe for only 5 dollar a month, which is very low. This is optional, and it is not needed 
 to enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fullair
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  NCsoft has a history of making bold choices when it comes to Massively Multiplayer Online Role 
 Playing Games (MMORPGs) . With the release of Guild Wars, they chose to abandon the typical model 
 of charging a monthly subscription to the game, relying on just the sales of the game and its expansions 
 to fill their coffers. In a similarly bold move, they developed a game that is free to download 
 as well as play, relying on the customer to sign up for a membership at a nominal fee in order 
 to unlock a bit of extra content. Behold, Dungeon Runners!
  
  The point of the game is straightforward: delve into dungeons, fight monsters, and gain loot and 
 cool powers. Thats not to say its boring, though; the game has a fair amount of variety in the 
 dungeons players will wander into, and there are nigh infinite goodies to be found among the monsters. 
 There are many different dungeons, each appropriate for characters of a certain power level, and 
 most of them can only be reached by digging deep enough into the beginning dungeons. Also, the 
 dungeon maps are randomly generated, so youll never play the same thing twice. Of course, there 
 are also quests to complete, though these are mostly simple Fed-Ex type quests that involve taking 
 an item to an NPC or finding a certain number of wolf hides or killing a boss monster.
  
  Characters belong to one of three classes (fighter, ranger, and mage) , but they are not bound to 
 these classes throughout their careers. Rather, the classes simply determine the starting abilities 
 they begin with. As characters level up, they get to increase the four attributes of Strength, 
 Endurance, Agility, and Intellect, each of which helps the character in a different way. The most 
 exciting change that leveling brings, though, is the chance to gain new abilities. In Dungeon Runners, 
 skills (as the special abilities are called) are purchased rather than being gained at level up, 
 but each skill requires the character to be a certain level. The character can learn new skills 
 from trainers located in the main base of Townston, though the more the character develops the 
 skills, the more it costs to upgrade them and the higher the level he must be. Skills can be offensive 
 abilities (such as the rangers Poison Shot) , passive abilities (such as the fighters Gym Freak) , 
 or buffs (such as the mages Shadow Resistance) . While the player can theoretically buy as many 
 skills as he has money to pay for, its good to specialize in a few particular ones, since skills 
 are used by dragging them to a skill tray from which they can be called via hotkeys. Problem is, 
 though, theres only room for eight skills plus a main and secondary attack. Passive skills, which 
 are powerful in that they give you boosts to your main attributes and attack forms (the fighters 
 Way of the Roo passive ability increases his attack speed, for example) , must be placed in the 
 skill bar to apply as well, which means the players options can be quite limited. Since there 
 are a vast number of skills, though, the player has a great selection to choose from to thoroughly 
 customize his character, and can easily shuffle them around to gain tactical advantage.
  
  Dungeon running wouldnt be nearly as fun if you had to do it by yourself. Fortunately, NCsoft 
 has given us a robust player matching system to allow players to find a group of their power level 
 quickly. The game is pretty good about matching players to the correct groups, and this is helped 
 by the fact that levels do not have a massive power gap between them. Of course, you could simply 
 open your own group so that other people can join you through the player matching system. Players 
 who find particular people they like to adventure with can put their adventuring buddies on their 
 Friends List and get an alert every time these people are online, allowing them to find their friends 
 quickly. If youre opening your own group, you can configure it so that only your friends can join; 
 a nice feature for those who dont want to play with people they dont know. One can also view 
 a list of all the players on the server, along with their level, which helps if you want to assemble 
 your own party by issuing invites rather than by waiting for people to come to you.
  
  Dungeon Runners chat system is simple and effective. There are three channels  global, local, 
 and group  on which the player can speak, and global chat (which is broadcast across the whole 
 server) can be ignored if the player doesnt want to hear random conversations flying around. Group 
 chat is good for maintaining contact with ones adventuring buddies even if one is in a different 
 area. Also, theres a handy whisper command, which only displays your chat to one person of your 
 choosing.
  
  Encounters in Dungeon Runners are well-balanced, though players will sometimes run into spawns 
 that are simply too difficult or too easy. Bringing more members into the group ramps up the difficulty 
 of the monsters, though having more people to fight the monsters could also make it easier. The 
 overall difficulty of the monsters seems to be based on the level of the group leader, though, 
 so making the highest level person in the group the leader will increase the difficulty, and making 
 a low-level character the leader will lessen it similarly. The difficulty can be further customized 
 by the group leader, who can set the difficulty of monsters. Of course, the more difficult the 
 monsters, the more XP they give and the more loot they drop, and we found in our dungeon running 
 that many players prefer to have the difficulty turned all the way up to Insane since the rewards 
 definitely outweigh the risks.
  
  Besides experience points, the benefits of which have already been discussed, the adventurous player 
 will gain plenty of loot. Loot comes in several categories, easily distinguished by the color of 
 its name. For example, grey items are mundane equipment, while blue items are magical, and purple 
 items are unique. Grey, green, and blue items are usable by anyone of the proper level, while yellow, 
 purple, and rainbow items are members-only. The members-only items are usually the best items the 
 player will find, though non-member items occasionally meet or exceed their quality, meaning that, 
 while members have a combat advantage, they dont tremendously overshadow the non-member players. 
 Some items become soulbound after a period of time, meaning that only the character it is bound 
 to can use the item. This normally isnt a problem if the player wants to use it or will simply 
 sell it when he is done, but if he wants to trade with another player for a different item, hes 
 out of luck. Fortunately, the player receives alerts when an item starts its timer to become soulbound.
 
  
  Theres a wide variety of items the player can find and use, including both light and heavy armor, 
 various heavy weapons such as giant clubs and swords, lighter weapons like daggers and staves, 
 and ranged weapons like crossbows and shotguns. Each has its own perks, and, with some experimentation, 
 the player will quickly find which equipment best suits his playing style. Some weapons are powerful 
 but slow, like the shotgun, while others, like the dagger, are fast but weak. Fortunately, the 
 player can judge which will amount to more damage by looking at detailed damage-per-second calculations 
 listed on his character info screen. Of course, apart from the general weapon types, particular 
 weapons have their special powers, and may provide ability bonuses, resistance to elemental damage 
 types, attack speed bonuses, and many other attributes. Skillful combinations of weapons and armor 
 result in a powerful character focused on a particular strategy.
  
  Besides equipable items, the player can also amass potions that restore health and mana, as well 
 as waypoint scrolls, which are handy for jumping back to town for a moment to sell off loot to 
 free up inventory space. Inventory space is something players run out of quickly, and without waypoint 
 scrolls to spare, players will have to pass up some wonderful loot because they simply cant carry 
 it. Potions and scrolls take up a large amount of this space, since they dont stack  unless, 
 of course, you become a member.
  
  Members get access to stackable potions, which frees up a massive amount of inventory space. In 
 addition, they can also access a bank (more like a safe deposit box, really) in which they can 
 place items. The bank is useful if the player picks up an item they desperately want to keep to 
 use but are too low a level to utilize. Putting it in the bank frees up that inventory space for 
 use until the player levels up enough to use the item. Its also good for storing many of the quest 
 items the player receives, and when the player gets to the point that he needs the quest item in 
 his inventory, he can simply expend a waypoint scroll to hop back to Townston and get it out of 
 the bank.
  
  Throughout the game, players will also collect Kings Coins. These are useful only to members, 
 as they can be exchanged in Townston for members-only items tailored specifically for the characters 
 class. This is one of the best ways to get the items the player will wear most often, as they tend 
 to be slightly better than what the player will pick up. Since the items are relatively cheap (the 
 most expensive ones we found cost only six coins) and Kings Coins are earned by completing quests 
 (many of which are repeatable) , the more a player plays the more often he can exchange coins for 
 cool gear. Of course, members-only gear is also much more likely to look cool as well as have powerful 
 stats, and looking good is just as important as being good, right?
  
  NCsoft is still working on Dungeon Runners, and many of the additions theyd put in since release 
 were there by the time we played it. Player vs. Player combat (PvP) is an available option for 
 players who like that sort of thing, but this is confined to its own server, which means that players 
 dont have to worry about griefers running around and killing them as soon as they spawn into the 
 game. There are plenty of servers open, meaning the player usually wont have to worry about too 
 many others playing already. If that does happen, though, members have preference and are pushed 
 to the front of the queue, meaning theyll have first access to the server when a slot opens. We 
 bet that server congestion is a rare occurrence, though its good foresight on NCsofts part.
 
  
  Dungeon Runners graphics are not ground-breaking, though they are smooth and pretty. Everything 
 has a look halfway between realism and cartoon graphics, which fits the humor of the setting, and 
 this allows the hardware requirements of the game to be quite low. In fact, the game runs quickly 
 with all of the graphics settings on high (including vertical sync and 4x anti-aliasing, features 
 which make even older games run slowly on our computers) , even during the most intense of battles. 
 Some of the models are constantly recycled, though, whether in tilesets or creatures, and if you 
 play the game long enough, things tend to look repetitive. The ratlings (a common weak enemy) , 
 for instance, are seen all throughout the game, and the art for them is re-colored sometimes, but 
 still manages to look the same. PC models also get old after a while; all the men are broad-shouldered 
 hulks and all the women have hips that make the men look thin. Variety in armor looks helps players 
 to distinguish their characters from everyone else, but its difficult to get an especially distinct 
 look for ones character.
  
  Dungeon Runners is a game about killing monsters, so its not surprising that youll find plenty 
 of violence in the game. However intense the battle may get at times, though, the violence is always 
 against monsters and other fantastical creatures that dont bleed and rarely leave corpses on the 
 ground, let alone gore. Theres magic, too, of course, though this involves only hurting enemies 
 with fire, ice, shadow, divine, and poison damage types (such as shadow lightning or fireballs) . 
 The only summoning in the game involves summoning a giant turkey leg to lure monsters away from 
 you in a pinch, and there are healing potions as well as potions to restore mana. Theres really 
 not much to object to on this front, which is good, since there isnt much else to the game, except 
 for talking to NPCs and other players. We only encountered a couple of places where there was swearing 
 from NPCs, and the chat filters on the servers seemed to filter out all but the lightest profanity 
 from players (which was incredibly rare anyway) . The NPC conversations also sometimes had sexual 
 references, though in many cases they were so veiled we werent quite sure if this was intentional 
 or a result of poor word choice. For the most part, Dungeon Runners is a fairly clean game.
  
  Dungeon Runners is a simple game, and lacks much of the fanfare and hoopla that Guild Wars 
 had. Still, the lure of a free game is quite enticing, and makes the overall value of the product 
 much higher. Its simplicity is actually its strength, as its not bloated with features, and what 
 it does have is solid. The game is well-polished and is still getting new additions, including 
 new dungeons. The benefits of membership are well worth the nominal fee, though non-members can 
 still find hours of enjoyment, too. Overall, we call Dungeon Runners a win.
  
  Read other like reviews at: http://www. plaingames. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scyldschefing
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Before I get started on my Dungeon Runner's review, let me begin by saying that I am a WoW refugee. 
 I finally have cut myself off from that tedious, time consuming yet addictive game that sucked 
 away my otherwise potentially productive hours and became more of an obsession rather than a fun, 
 benign diversion. I was sick of having to schedule my life around raiding. I was tired of time 
 sink after time sink. And worst of all was that I could hardly do anything without devoting at 
 least a few hours per sitting, during which time I could. not. leave. the. computer. That was the 
 clincher for me- I had to get away.
  
  However, I was not ready to completely give up on MMOs. So I returned to Dungeon Runners to give 
 it another shot, and what I found was a sparkling little gem of a game that trades off the depth 
 and immersion that most MMOs strive to achieve for humor, charm, and accessibility. And thankfully 
 the lag that plagued the game before is gone, which was previously my primary turn-off. This game 
 is NOT a competitor with any standard MMO. Rather, it is an alternative type of game whose appeal 
 will be for those people that don't want to sacrifice their lives to a game or are sick of the 
 tedium of traditional MMOs.
  
  If one were to start with a point of comparison with another MMO, NC-Soft's more well-known Guild 
 Wars is probably most similar. Both games are centered around communal hubs from which players 
 form groups and venture out into the instanced world. Both games have fast combat and fast post-combat 
 recovery (i. e. no food for HP recovery or drink for MP recovery, but DR has potions for use in 
 combat.)
  
  Otherwise, it is in some ways more simiar Diablo, Fate, and other traditional-style RPGs as well 
 as traditional MMOs like WoW. Much like in Diablo and Fate, the world is divided into levels. Upgrades 
 are via gear. After leveling, you manually spend talent points and must pay gold to re-spec your 
 talent points. And new skills are purchased, so once you have enough gold and are a high enough 
 level, you can buy as many skills as you can afford. However, the prices of new skills are so high, 
 so don't count on acquiring them necessarily when you reach the appropriate level.
  
  Another thing that makes Dungeon Runners much more like Diablo is that there are no support classes. 
 Basically every class is damage oriented with some utility abilities. The three classes are warriors 
 (melee-oriented) , rangers (ranged-oriented) , and mages (caster ranged oriented) . Warriors do have 
 some tanking abilities such as those to increase monster hate, but groups do not require tanks; 
 rangers and mages can clear dungeons without a tanking warrior. Though some may argue that this 
 takes away depth from the game, it should be a relief to healers or tanks in other MMOs that couldn't 
 farm because of their raid spec or to any player that had to call a run after 3 hours of waiting 
 for a key support class they couldn't find.
  
  Another interesting detail about the class system is that any character of any class can buy any 
 other class's skills or even passive stat bonuses/drawbacks. The only difference between the classes 
 is what abilities and passive effects they start out with for free. Otherwise, any character can 
 become any other class or any class combination as long as they have the gold to buy skills and 
 the gear to support it. However, I am not sure about the viability of hybrid characters, as most 
 high level players just stick with some variation of the base classes.
  
  One reason for this game's appeal to the cynical MMO player is its humor, which is in everything 
 from the items' names, such as class rings and common, name-brand relics, to the witty and well-done 
 voice overs of the NPCs and occasionally in the quest text. The review below me has no idea what 
 the word pretentious means, because this game is anything but pretentious.
  
  As for the quests themselves, none of them reward equipment. Rather, all of them award money, and 
 some award King's Coins as well which can be traded for a random piece of equipment suitable for 
 a particular class. Unfortunately, this element of randomness can mean you can get equipment that 
 isn't good for you, but at least King's Coins quests are not very difficult to fulfill while you're 
 grinding through the various levels of the dungeons.
  
  And grind you shall. This game isn't story driven, and in that way is more similar to Fate than 
 other games. It is a true dungeon crawler, with randomized floors every time the world is reset, 
 which can be done by will or which is done automatically after logging out for a preset amount 
 of time. However, the order of the levels and certain elements on each level are always present. 
 There are plenty of bosses and special, more powerful mobs on each level to add interest to the 
 game and plenty of levels to explore.
  
  Travel is mercifully made much easier by waypoint scrolls. These allow the player to setup a waypoint 
 at his or her location on the current dungeon level to which the player can return. If the dungeon 
 is reset, the waypoint is still present in the same, albeit newly-generated, level.
  
  In addition, the player is allowed to change the difficulty level at any time. Increasing the difficulty 
 level increases the health of mobs, the damage mobs deal, and the amount of loot mobs drop.
  
  The game is free to download and play, but in order to use any decent gear, you have to pay 
 a $5 monthly member subscription fee. The cheap price is another welcomed feature to former MMO 
 players.
  
  My main criticism is that I want more. I want more mob types. I want more humor. I want plenty 
 of more player abilities and some more depth of play. But NCSoft has said that it is starting to 
 implement a series of new content patches (which they lovingly call chunks ) that will attempt 
 to sate their player base's hunger. In addition, there is no attempt to get rid of the grind, but 
 then again I don't feel any compelling reason to level my character really quickly or to not enjoy 
 the grind up.
  
  Don't expect Dungeon Runners to give you the same engrossing gameplay experience of a traditional 
 MMO. Don't expect it to become a second life for you. Do expect a game full of charm that you can 
 easily get a satisfying half an hour to couple of hours worth of play time out of per sitting that 
 won't make you feel like a slave to your computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Runners is made to please to the casual gamer and all those who are new to the MMO scene. 
 It's fairly easy to level up, and the game offers several difficulty settings to tailor your dungeon 
 crawling adventures to your gaming expertise. If you die you are conveniently placed in town at 
 the obelisk, which is a portal that can take you to any town you have visited before, as well as 
 the last place you teleported from. Your mana and health also regenerate automatically when you 
 aren't fighting, so if you need to, you can always run away or regain some HP but things will 
 still be chasing you.
  
  The game is free to download and free to play. There are added features for a $4.99 monthly fee, 
 such as being able to carry stackable potions and equipping a series of equipment and weapons with 
 really nice stats. Unfortunately the inventory space is pretty limited, especially when you are 
 playing on the highest difficulty setting and keep getting all sorts of loot drops. Fortunately, 
 travelling back and forth is easy and quick enough, and you do get access to the bank where you 
 can store some items. Last but not least, while there are four or five game worlds, sometimes you 
 might find them full. If that is the case, members will have priority logging on over non-paying 
 players.
  
  Players can raid dungeons on their own, but the game has specific features to make grouping easier 
 (including voice chat) , and to get to your group quicker. The game is packed with quests, many 
 of them repeatable. Your reward is usually gold and sometimes a King's Coin (which you use to trade 
 in for armor tailored to your class) . However, it would have been nice to receive items or experience 
 as quest rewards now and again. At first, I thought the slaughter quests weren't really adding 
 up, since I kept clearing the dungeon before I had the amount needed to get my reward. Then found 
 out logging out and back in would respawn the dungeons, so that fixed the problem. But when you 
 come back to the world in whatever dungeon floor, the map will be reset and you have to explore 
 it all over again.
  
  I also would have enjoyed having more than one character to play as without having to make separate 
 accounts. Although there aren't may character customization options available in the creation process, 
 there is plenty of armor and weapons to make your avatar stand out from the crowd. Furthermore, 
 even though you pick one of the three base classes, you can customize your character's abilities 
 by purchasing skills from all three trainers. Lets talk about Passive Skills. You figure passive 
 means you learn it and automatically have it, right? Wrong. Dungeon Runners makes you waste hotkey 
 slots by forcing you to place your Passive Skills there, otherwise you don't get their benefits.
 
  
  Although the game seemed to run just fine on Windows Vista for a while, we soon found out that 
 wasn't the case. My husband crashed every other minute and it became impossible for us to play 
 together. While we were both running on Vista, the laptop seemed to handle it fine and I had no 
 problems aside from some lag now and again. My husband's desktop (a powerhouse) wouldn't keep him 
 connected for more than 5 minutes at a time after we got to the second dungeon. Tech support told 
 us the game doesn't support this particular OS, so tough luck for us - and apparently, for whoever 
 else is planning to play it on Vista.
  
  What annoyed me the most was the way the weapons and pieces of armor were named. It seems like 
 it's all on a randomizer and bunches up a handful or words together to create ridiculous names 
 such as my Multifarious Amethyst Plate of the Simple Tarantula (I am not kidding, this WAS an armor) . 
 The speed rates on the weapons should also show DPS, instead of just classifying it as Grandma, 
 Ludicrous or Freakin' Fast. It just seemed totally out of place. Also inappropriate most of the 
 time were the NPCs voices, some of them really made me want to be able to attack them.
  
  But Dungeon Runners is the MMO for the casual gamer. You can log on, hack and slash for a few minutes 
 and log off, or you can keep going at it for hours. It's easy to get into, the controls can be 
 summed up in point and click, and the membership features cost a lot less than any other MMO out 
 there. Still, I found my share of things to complain about. I'd advise Windows Vista users not 
 to invest in it until there's a patch to solve the compatibility issues.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=dungeonrunners 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trav75
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I read bout this gam in a pc mag and decided to give it a shot since it is free. It installed easily, 
 and after setting up an account for the game and the PlayNC service, I was off to hack and slash.
 
  
  The game blatantly rips off Diablo and the other above mentioned games, and it has fun with it. 
 The NPC's all talk humorously, using awkward old school English, and some of them have Sean Connery 
 or Arnold Schwarzenegger accents. The item names are comical as well, such as Tainted Baby Seal 
 Skin Greaves of the Platypus.
  
  The gameplay is very diablo-esque, and quests are given out World of Warcraft style, right down 
 to the yellow question marks and exclamation points over the heads of npc's who have quests to 
 give or rewards to give out for quests completed. It's like Guild Wars because the towns are where 
 you meet other people to form parties, and all other areas of the world are instanced just for 
 you and those who may be in your party.
  
  After a few hours with it, I gave in and paid the 5 bucks a month membership fee so I could store 
 items in the bank and equip the best items. I figure if I get tired of it, I'll just cancel... and 
 for 5 bucks a month it's worth it for the fun I've had already. Many people level up to high levels 
 without becoming a paid member with no problem, so it is not required ot ever pay for it... it just 
 makes things a bit nice for you.
  
  There are some things missing, like a way to trade without just dropping stuff on the ground and 
 hoping the other person is honest. But all in all, it's fun and addicting for what it is.
  
  If you like these types of games, download it and give it a try. What could it hurt... it's 
 free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prattsimon
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  I do not disguise the fact that this game is buggy or if not my isdn is but I really like the grouping 
 stuff. I still do although like Guild Wars 10 times better. This game took me about 3 days of 2 
 - 4 hrs per day to learn how to compensate for its bugs, unlike Guild Wars, but it still has about 
 a tenth of the features of Guild Wars and is free, so it works for me until I can buy Guild Wars 
 for $19.95. I don't like the facts that u have to be a member to use the bank, and You cannot trade 
 items without drop trading. It still is a pretty good game better than some of the many other animated 
 mmorpg's around but it could use improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rascalkc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I have never played World of Warcraft for fear that I would lose touch with reality and join the 
 countless other addicts who have lost their jobs, their loved ones and their sanity to the massively 
 addictive gameplay. But I figured since Dungeon Runners was free, and I had heard good things about 
 it, I would see what all the fuss about MMO's was all about. I had tried Guild Wars, but frankly 
 I found it mundane and uninteresting. Maybe that's just me. I downloaded DR and started playing. 
 I spent about 5 straight hours glued to my 21 inch saying to myself, Just one more run. The colors, 
 the graphics, the controls, the enemies, the weapons, the armor, it was all such an adventure to 
 me. And it was FREE!!! I couldn't stop playing. Then I started seeing those two words that would 
 quickly turn me sour to the whole experience - Membership Required AHA!!!! That's where they get 
 ya! Ever been hit up by a crack dealer? The first few highs are free, and just when you realize 
 you can't live without it, they start charging you for it. I said to myself, I'm not giving into 
 this. I can play this without that other stuff. I'm not giving into your marketing tactics. Then 
 I remembered, it's only $5 for a month. I just hope I can keep my family and my job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 12, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  I had seen the in game shot on a gamespot discussion thread, after that one of my pal asked me 
 to play it online.
  Game is quite good then other Free MMO's , although a little bit lesser in terms of Sounds &amp; 
 Graphics.
  Overall Feel of the game is alright. HUD needs to be re designed. Controls are very much responsive.
 
  I have heard that people use to wait for 10 t0 15 minutes in queue to log on to server, but in 
 my experience , it just a matter of seconds.
  Fans of Diablo should play it , and it is better if you guyz &amp; gals play it in group.
  DR 
 has some very funny names for the Armour and Weapons of the games.
  Overall its a nice try from NC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myrrinth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Runners is a decent game, for what it is. If you aren't interested in a bunch of extra 
 frills, you can play this for free. Free is a good thing, and I would highly recommend you try 
 it that way before you pony up for the membership. Pros: The game has a game play style very similar 
 to Diablo, anyone who has played that game will find this very easy to get into and understand. 
 Many of the item name are humorous, and even NPCs are interesting to listen to. Single-player mode 
 is balanced in the early areas, allowing people to get used to the game at their own pace. Decent 
 graphics for the system requirements (800Mhz PIII, 256RAM) . Built-in voice communication for members. 
 Best of all, free to play if you're alright without the extra membership benefits.
  
  Cons: Membership required for storage bank or to use the better items (which could hamper play 
 further in the game) . As of the current release (0.83) , this game is not Vista-friendly. Awkward 
 chat system requires /world, /zone, /group to use effectively. Definite learning curve for people 
 not familiar with Diablo or MMOs in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guardian_zulu
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  A mix of Diablo 2 and today's MMOs such as WoW, Dungeon Runners is a very entertaining game. The 
 game is mostly instanced, you'll only see other players (that aren't in your group) in outposts 
 (like Guild Wars) . The game's classless system allows anyone to create a class suited to their 
 own playstyle. Even if you only have 15-20 minutes to play, there's always something to do. The 
 game is free to play, but members (5$ a month) get cooler and more powerful items, a bank, voice 
 chat, and server priority. The only problem I see with the game is the very simplistic control 
 system, but it doesn't take away from the fun too much. Overall the game is great even as a non-member 
 as a fun and casual MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerza
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Runners is the latest Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game (MMORPG) from industry 
 juggernaut NC Soft, except its not really an MMO. Much like Guild Wars, only the towns are online 
 in any sort of a massively multiplayer sense, but even they are broken up into different districts, 
 or copies of themselves. So, all the players playing are never in the same version of the town 
 at once, which means they can never completely and totally interact with each other like they can 
 a game such as Lineage 2 or World of Warcraft. The dungeon, or exploration fields, where you kill 
 enemies, gain experience, and loot treasure are all instanced and pieced together at random for 
 your party. This makes things interesting since the layout and treasure locations are never the 
 same when you go back for a second or third run. In order to log into the game you have to create 
 two accounts, a PlayNC Master account and a Dungeon Runners account that is managed by your PlayNC 
 Master account. If this sounds complicated it is, and will be more than a little overwhelming for 
 players not familiar with PlayNC and their system. After you have made the accounts and logged 
 in, you are allowed to make one character per world server. This character can be either a male 
 or female, and you have a limited amount of choices to choose from in determining your characters 
 appearance. You will also choose from any one of three classes, warrior, archer, or mage, in order 
 to establish your characters base stats. There isnt a whole lot of variety here, but that really 
 isnt a problem since nothing in Dungeon Runners is class specific. This is really good, because 
 it allows players to change classes on the fly, or customize and advance their character however 
 they want. Nothing is ever permanent either, because the game has an auto respect feature that 
 allows you to redistribute the points for your stats at any time.
  
  Navigating the game is performed via the old point and click method, or by using the new WASD standard. 
 However, both of these control methods are rather clunky and hardly fluid. Right clicking the mouse 
 serves as a hot key for using an attack or ability, and the number keys on the keyboard work as 
 additional hotkeys. Left clicking on an enemy will cause you to attack that enemy, and if you hold 
 down on the left mouse button your character will attack the enemy repeatedly and not stop until 
 the foe has been slain.
  
  Graphically, Dungeon Runners is nothing overly special to look at. It looks like a touched up Warcraft 
 III, or something from three to four years ago. This approach does give it a unique feel though, 
 and some fields such as the forests look great with lush grass swaying and shimmering in the light 
 as you move through it under a dense canopy of oak or pine. Its a shame there isnt more variety 
 in this department, because like the character creation process, there isnt much to offer. Most 
 new dungeons and enemies are just repeats of the old, but with different lighting, color palette, 
 or textures. This hinders the experience since players can see almost everything Dungeon Runners 
 has to offer in just a few hours and makes the game become pretty tiring pretty quickly.
  
  The audio is equally lacking in variety. There are only a small handful of sound effects, ambient 
 background noise and music, and quips spoken by the townsfolk. The narration in the game is excellent 
 and really shows how much the game doesnt take itself seriously. For instance when you first enter 
 the game there will be two booths in front of you and one will have a line of npcs in front of 
 it. This is the que to get into the game and talking with the npcs in line will show them venting 
 the same frustration players do, one of them is also a stereotypical nerd who will tell you that 
 all the chicks inside are his. You will also be treated to a character reminiscent of Comic Book 
 Guy from The Simpsons, a banker that is an obvious rip off of Arnold Schwarzenegger, a potion 
 vender who can help you with anything from a few potions to a sinful libation or two provided you 
 have the coin, and many others. Everything sounds great and the towns folk are a riot to listen 
 to. Sadly, none of this can hide the lack of variety in the game, and things quickly become repetitive, 
 ultimately dragging down the experience. Overall, Dungeon Runners is a fun game that does a good 
 job of not taking itself seriously, but lacks any sort of lasting appeal due to its shallowness. 
 For an online game that doesnt require a subscription fee to play it is definitely worth giving 
 a try. Players can subscribe to Dungeon Runners for $5 a month, but doing so is unnecessary, because 
 all this does is give you priority in the server que, access to stackable potions, access to the 
 bank, access to harder difficulties, and access to the high level gear in the game. Most of these 
 things are unnecessary, and some of them players should simply have access to anyway, which doesnt 
 make a strong case for why you should shuck up the five bucks to subscribe. Many of Dungeon Runners 
 current problems should be addressed in upcoming patches though. For instance, the upcoming patch 
 in mid August will allow players to have more than one character per server and will add PVP to 
 the game, as well as a new high level dungeon, and a few other things. For only being two months 
 old, Dungeon Runners is off to a good start. Its a fun game to play, albeit a simple and shallow 
 one. If you are the type of gamer who doesnt have a lot of time to dedicate to a game each night, 
 or week, or just want something you can enjoy casually, then Dungeon Runners is something you should 
 really try. However, if you fall into the more hardcore crowd that doesnt mind dedicating thousands 
 of hours to a game, and hundreds just to get something done, then steer clear of Dungeon Runners. 
 It is not for you, and its repetitive nature is sure to drive you insane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Graphically simplistic, the character animations are simplistically similar. The level 
 designs are comparable to the characters in terms of animation type, as well as the monsters. The 
 graphics, and colors are bright, and primary, not to be mistaken for being childish.
  
  Sounds: The voice acting is the mood setting for this game, the characters mock everything from 
 your character to renaissance festivals. NCSoft really did a good job in this area of the game, 
 and should be commended for it. The weapon sounds and spells are pretty basic, the monsters really 
 don't contribute too much overall in uniqueness.
  
  Gameplay: This game is a very straight-forward hack &amp; slash. Each of the three classes has 
 their own unique qualities without one being so uber they can overwhelm the other classes. The 
 skills for each class are upgradable, and do offer players some speciality. This game is very simplistic, 
 but to really get the maximum benefit it is much nicer to play as a group.
  
  Technical: Technically, the netcode is pretty on par. I have not had any problems with lag, that 
 includes pinging out of a servier, disconnects, or frame skippage. overall this game has been extremely 
 steady.
  
  The menus are sophisticated enough so that traversing to what you need is quite easy. It is almost 
 reminiscent of Guild Wars in some aspects.
  
  The in game voice chat was one of those parts that caught me off gaurd , not only does it work, 
 but it works well without being too cumbersome. This title is not a power hungry program, if you 
 have a decent running rig you can run this at the max, and keep extremely high framerates. I am 
 running this on a 64 bit Vista machine, with an ATI X1950XTX, and I have found it to be quite stable, 
 I have not had any issues what-so-ever. Xaiph, another reivewer who is a friend of mine is having 
 God-awful problems getting it to run on his rig, and he is running Vista 64 bit, but using an Nvidia 
 7800GTX instead. So if you are using an Nividia card with windows Vista I do suggest caution. Overall 
 Impressions: I have found this game quite enjoyable it is definitely one of those titles that doesn't 
 take itself too seriously. Its not one of those dark, menacing games that would cause nightmares 
 to young kids, it is just a game where you and your buds can go, hack up a bunch of creatures, 
 then afterwards share a few war stories around camp. Don't expect this title to be very high brow, 
 and serious , this title isn't about being serious- it is about showing off , having fun, carrying 
 a jovial attitude, and most of all carrying on around the other players. The majority of the players 
 in the game is always cutting up and having a good time. You will get players in town doing scenes 
 from movies in the middle of town. The last one I had got to see was Spaceballs. It was denfinitely 
 a treat. Free versus Paid Service - That ius a question asked alot, I would rather leave that to 
 your own beliefs. I am using a free account, and I am not having any problems traversing throughout 
 the game, of course there are some gear I cannot wear, or weapons I cannot use. This does not really 
 cause a hinderance. It just requires a free player to look a little harder for that huge pair of 
 scissors, or a ham on a stick, Or that huge double barrelled flintlock of doom.
  
  Try it out, its free you aren't forced to pay, there is no spyware being installed so really no 
 loss with the exception of time, and if you become addicted probably the loss of personal relationships, 
 and a job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaiph
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  My first impressions about this game were simple, ooo. An MMO that wont take away from my pocket 
 book, and as a game in this idea it sits very well. The game after I installed it had only a few 
 options for an avatar creation with the three flavors given being a warrior, a ranger or a mage. 
 Being the kind of guy who likes to see things burn then flop over dead I went with the mage class. 
 With the selection of class chosen I picked from a small range of faces and hair styles then popped 
 a vile of dye on my avatars head and slapped my name on him. After having a few minor connection 
 issues which can be come present in any MMO I logged in to the world and opened my eyes into a 
 world of humor and zaniness. The best way to describe the game was a bit of WoW a dash of titan 
 Quest and maybe the smallest taste of guild wars. This may sound like a few other MMOs out there 
 at first but then I picked up my item from a drop and received a Cardboard short sword. I found 
 that unlike the nature in WoW to be more about the characters development and quests the point 
 of dungeon runners seems to poke fun at itself. Most of the npcs will make an effort to say an 
 off the cuff line while keeping a straight face. The game continues to be light-hearted and fun 
 with easy going entertainment on the menu, but as I soon found out I was not going to be allowed 
 to play this game by my computer. After casting a spell on three targets at once the game froze 
 and I had to close the unresponsive game. I reconnected several more times to re-encounter this 
 problem again and again. I tried installing various drivers for my graphics card, put the settings 
 lower, tried some suggestions from some of the forums, and reinstalled the game but I as of yet 
 am unable to overcome this error. I am not sure of where the problem lies and it may only be a 
 problem experienced by the mage class, it may be somewhere in my computer but I doubt it.
  
  My opinion of this game is that if I can get it to work Im sure I would enjoy it, but until 
 I can resolve the issue I encountered Im going with a medium score. The game doesnt have much 
 else going for it other than its lighted-hearted nature. My issue along with mediocre graphics 
 leaves me wanting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker70
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  I've played the game for a few weeks and reached level 20. This required about 20 hours of actual 
 play time, maybe a bit less. The game up to this point has been very entertaining and has kept 
 me coming back for more. The fact that it can pull me in for two to four hours at a time on occasion 
 as well as suite me for quick fifteen minute spurts is a testament to the casual design of the 
 game that still manages to sink the 'one more trip down the hole' hooks into you. Gameplay is very 
 reminiscent of Diablo or Titan Quest (Did I just repeat myself?) with a visual style that is clearly 
 inspired by World of Warcraft. In fact WoW seems to be the inspiration of much of the game's design 
 and, what is sure to be the selling point for many players, the humor. From naming conventions 
 to voice overs, quest objectives and NPC names, Dungeon Runners takes swipes at the conventions 
 of the genre it inhabits. Running through levels of AlGore's Terror Dome collecting paintable dolls 
 (er, figurines, collectible figurines) for the Mayor of Townston is just one of the many comical 
 things you'll find yourself involved in. It's lighthearted, over the top, but most of all fun.
 
  Will the graphics wow you with next gen affects? No. Will the intricate storyline and quest structure 
 keep you riveted to the narrative? Um, no. The simple structure, low cost, and undeniably addictive 
 gameplay and unique sense of humor will keep you running the dungeons and coming back for more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weapon93
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  This is truely a game that I, and I know many others have been waiting for. An RPG that is simple 
 to pick up, fast paced but deep enough to keep you coming back for more. Dungeon Runners has the 
 visuals that many other free games greatly lack. You can walk through the town and the gear is 
 so diverse and colorful you'll wonder how they made all this and are giving it away. Grab a friend, 
 have them download the game and make an account and you can blast through some dungeons having 
 a lot of fun without having to spend a ton of time figuring out the controls.
  
  I will be paying my membership fee to get the real deal, it didn't take me long to realize I'd 
 be paying for a year subscription for the same price of most PC games. I'm not closing my WoW account 
 just yet, this game does not look to have the fun that raiding with 24 friends rewards, but I will 
 be playing a lot, heck! I could run through a dungeon level in the time it takes me to finish 1 
 flight path in WoW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehrealdoa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  To best sum up Dungeon Runners in one sentence its is easy to say
  
  This game is a mix of Diablo 2 and Gauntlet Legends in a MMO form. 
  
  The game is not complex 
 just kill kill, level up, kill kill harder
  
  Most of the free MMORPGs out will have you grinding for hours with no rewarding gameplay, not Dungeon 
 Runners. Dungeon Runners unique game play style makes killing tons of mobs relaxing and enjoyable 
 as you dig through mountains of loot. but knowing money makes the world go around DR has one fall 
 back, you have to be a paying member, of $5 USD a month, to use the best items and some other features 
 of the game. That is a small price to pay for the countless hours of entertainment this game will 
 provide. I would recommend any gamer that loves hack and slash game to try this out, the community 
 is growing every day.
  
  Hope to be Running Dungeons with you soon! ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karatekid52
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  this comes form the folks at ncsoft so you can expect decent gameplay, but many items you need 
 to buy a membership the graphics are cartoonish, and the battle system is hack and slash, so its 
 a good time waster. you can choose to travel with fellow players or by yourself, both are available. 
 it takes many elements from its predecessors, such as the aura of color surrounding bosses from 
 guild wars, and level requirements on many of the weapons from numerous mmo games overall it is 
 a good time waster and rainy day game, and it starts to grow on you after a while. I certinaly 
 like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddog2575
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  First off, the graphics are bad, character creation is terrible, controls are terrible , combat 
 is terrible. very upsetting game coming from NC soft. even for a free game don't try it. i waited 
 like an hour for this game and i got a piece of crap taking my hard drive space. so please never 
 play this. if you want a good NC soft game download the trials for everquest 2, city of villains/heroes, 
 everquest, lineage, and even the greatest mmo of all time World of Warcraft, WoW gives you 10 days 
 to try whole game and it is way better than playing this piece of crap, use your time weisly play 
 WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HagganFFXI
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  You get to explore dungeons, complete quests, beat up on helpless monsters, all in the name of... 
 what? Yes, it's kind of short on story (or it may be that i'm skipping some text) , but really, 
 do you need a story for a game that is FREE?
  
  That's the best part of this game, you can download the client, and potentially play forever free. 
 But here's the catch, you will be limited on the stuff you can wear, and the items you can use 
 based on whether or not you can fork over 5 dollars a month. The price of a happy meal, a latte, 
 a gallon of gas, etc is what it takes to become an uber mob slaying machine in this game. Lets 
 just say that by the time I was level 6, not even out of the starting area, I was already on the 
 order form filling out my info to plop down my $5.
  
  The graphics area ok, nothing really spectacular, the sound can and will get annoying, but the 
 game-play is where it's at. You click, swing your weapon and watch the bodies hit the floor.
  
  How much simpler can it be? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramatheson
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Every wondered what Dungeon Siege would have been like if it were online? Look no further than 
 Dungeon Runners. This game is almost exactly like Dungeon Siege, with a little bit of Diablo and 
 WoW added in for good measure. It is extremely easy to get into, and is surprisingly addictive, 
 as its predecessors were. To top it off, THE GAME IS FREE TO DOWNLOAD AND PLAY FOR AS LONG AS YOU 
 WANT! For $4.99 a month, you get access to some quest rewards and loot you otherwise wouldn't, 
 but other than that, there is very little you will miss out on by not paying a cent.
  
  Also, note that it is created by NC Soft, the people that made Guild Wars, Lineage, and City of 
 Heroes/Villains.
  
  If you liked Dungeon Siege, or feel that a stripped down, hack n' slash action focused WoW is up 
 your alley, then check this out. For free, there is no reason NOT to. At a ZERO dollar entry, it's 
 better than any other value $30 titled game I've played. I even enjoy this game FAR more than the 
 pay-to-buy Guild Wars.
  
  You can't beat the price... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aidan100
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  First of you have got to understand this game is FREE and isnt going to cost you &pound;108 a year.
 
  
  Pros
  
  The gameplay is a basic MMO involving hack, slash and spells
  
  The graphics are acceptable
  
  World is mapped similar to gauntlet i. e. levels with a town 
 at the start
  
  Does not become addictive which is a bonus as it does not suck your life away its just something 
 to play when you are bored
  
  The game includes humor, the armourers sound identical to Fat Bastard out of austin powers, Some 
 NPCs sound like the early James Bond
  
  The one major thing i believe it has got right is the amount of enemies the average player can 
 take on. For example * Wow makes your hero feel inadequate as you can only take 2 enemies at a 
 time * Guildwars makes you seem as useful as a turd as often 8 players are required to take down 
 for standard enemies unless farming
  
  This game lets the hero take around 6 average foes at once which makes the hero actually feel like 
 a hero.
  
  Cons
  
  Money system is unstable
  Quests dont give xp
  Items are worthless
  No trade ability
  Movement not quite up to the mark
  
  In conclusion 
 if you are not a hardcore gamer or sick of main stream games play this for a little while until 
 you find something new because its a good filler. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I only played this for a couple hours, but the clunky controls and lag didn't help keep me playing 
 this. I guess you get what you pay for... and since this is free I can see why its so poorly thrown 
 together.
  
  Even though I don't play WOW anymore, when I did, it was like a disease and completely drew me 
 into it whether I wanted it to or not. Unfortunately this game after a few hours doesn't do that. 
 But NCsoft has the right idea of giving a free game and letting people try it out, than paying 
 for it if they feel they want more of it.
  
  All the obvious things and visible lackings this game is compared to WOW I could go over... but 
 what bothered me the most in my short time playing, would be the delay each time you move your 
 character, whether WOWs engine handles it so you don't feel it or what, but this game and many 
 NCsoft games have this laggy control feeling. It really pisses me off. Guild Wars had it also. 
 And too lesser extent, City of Heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arieles
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  I was skeptical when I got this game as it was free but figured I would give it a shot as I had 
 become quite burned out on Wow and Vanguard and all of those other games for the time being. Keep 
 in mind this is unlike any of those games. It is more like one of those long gone games where you 
 can just fly through a dungeon and kill everything and get crazy amounts of loot (if you are a 
 member..) Everyone gets portal scrolls as well that they can use to portal back to town to sell 
 which you will find you have to do quite frequently. Another charming little factor about the game 
 is you can repetitively kill the same boss over and over and get different loot off it every time 
 you do so. The item name references are actually pretty funny as well for a while. The world is 
 a bit small, and you will tend to run the same dungeons quite a few times before you move on but 
 it surprisingly hasn't gotten old for me just yet. If you are just in the mood for something different 
 and don't want to pay $40-50 for a newer game just to fill in a few hours of your time per day, 
 then give this a shot.
  
  Pros: Simplistic, cute graphics, not overly time consuming.. easy to stop at any time and pick 
 up where you left off. Free, besides the membership fee which is optional (but not if you really 
 want to enjoy the loot) . 
  Cons: The controls are a bit annoying for people who like to steer with mouselook rather than using 
 the keyboard. No experience for completing quests, just money. Small world.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauri14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I ran into this game in an Estonian free-time forum called koffer. ee and I'm glad I did. Basically, 
 this game is an MMORPG, which you can play for free, or if you want the better content (stackable 
 potions, no waiting lines to the more populated servers, items from class rare and up, banking) 
 you can pay a quite cheap, 5 dollar monthly fee.
  One of the best quotes I've heard about this game is Just like World of Warcraft, but cuts the 
 crap and gets to the hack and slashing. And to be honest, that's how it is.
  
  Dungeon Runners went officially live on May 25th, 2007.
  Since the game is still being developed, 
 there is of yet, no pvp system, it is due to come in july. The game aims to a classless system, 
 you can pick to start out as a ranger, mage or fighter, but it doesnt set any restrictions to you, 
 you can become anything.
  
  One of the best things about Dungeon Runners is, that it is almost entirely uniquely instanced 
 for all parties of players. The town of Townston is the only place massive numbers of players will 
 meet eachother.
  It is possible to complete (as much as you can complete an mmorpg) this game solo. For those who 
 wish to party, the dungeons will be scaled to an appropriate difficulty level. It won't get too 
 easy, in my opinion.
  
  The UI is quite similar to that of WoW. The quest marks on NPCs heads are one of the first things 
 that remind you of WoW, so do the graphics of this game.
  Dungeons are randomly generated and Dungeon Runners uses a randomized item generator, just like 
 in Diablo - you kill a monster, it drops items randomly around it, sometimes good, sometimes not.
 
  
  Most people usually ask in world chat (chat to everyone, nice people there by the way) , if this 
 game is trying to take itself seriously or not? It is a very humorous game for an MMORPG, some 
 of the many examples being:
  an NPC saying I had a terrbile dream last night, I was shaked but not stirred. (James Bond reference) 
 or hero monsters such as Raavage the Pianist (a huge mutant with maces instead of arms) and countless 
 item names, that are seemingly randomly generated and are sometimes so funny, you just got to show 
 it to the others.
  
  I also found, that I could draw many parallels between the gameplay of Titan Quest and Dungeon 
 Runners, it is sometimes very similar to TQ.
  
  Overall, an addicting joyride, just what you need to successfully waste your summer and do nothing 
 of significance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: struong
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  For a free game, I don't mind a lot of the flaws such as less than perfect movement of your character 
 or some of the repetitive models that will pop up over and over if only with a different name or 
 color. As long as it is fun or there is a progression path that makes all your grinding worth it. 
 However, after playing this game for a few hours, I quickly became bored with it's repetitive gameplay. 
 It's the same old, same old no matter what level you are. I level up so the game have harder monster. 
 It's nothing but just a click fest with a few skills thrown in to attempt to keep things interest. 
 For a free game, this isn't a bad game but if I were to invest hours and hours of my time into 
 a game, at least make it interesting or fun so that I feel like I accomplish something or enjoyed 
 the journey. Hopefully, there will be an update soon to address some of these issues and I will 
 continue playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhorto1
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't even figure out how to get started playing this game. They ask you to create several 
 accounts before you can even begin. One is an NCsoft Master account the second is some sort of 
 game account. They also seem to be asking for a serial number of some sort which I don't have since 
 I just downloaded it.
  I already own and play two of the Guild Wars games (which are fantastic) . Why can't they just use 
 these to mine my information?
  It shouldn't be this complicated to play. I think I may just uninstall and continue to play Guild 
 Wars. I even tried to get into their forums to figure a way through their registration gauntlet. 
 The forums make you register before you can even read them and then they won't let you create a 
 new account!! I'm giving this game all ones except for a two in Sound. They had a nice tune playing 
 after I installed and got to the login screen. That's pretty much as far as I can get.
  
  Two accounts and a serial number? Free isn't worth this hassle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ch
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 31, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  From a value standpoint, Free is great. Now the issues with free. This game seems like a experiment 
 that NCsoft wanted to see if anyone is foolhardy to pay for. Not a single immerse quality about 
 the interface or game play, The game is a retread of something that was new about 4 years ago. 
 The basic premise of this game is to run through a linear dungeon to level as fast as you can with 
 or without any one in your party. Not a single group dynamic if in a party since the game is all 
 about damage per second. No party roles or reason to group, you simple run off to a instanced dungeon 
 and run hog wild through it as fast as your health potions will allow. All quests are meaningless 
 kill or fetch quests that you do not even need to read to understand or care. Just clear the level 
 and run to the next with little thought or regard to what you are really there for. Form a level 
 perspective, The greater the damage, the faster you can move forward. If you are new to MMO and 
 need a free sample, this would be ok but so little immersion or content. It works for about an 
 hour, then you realize that this game is old while it is new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevryn
Rating: 5
Date: May 29, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  First off, I would like to say anyone comparing this to World of Warcraft is outright lying. This 
 game is a pure hack-n-slash loot grab. It primarily revolves around grinding levels on your character 
 and picking up loot. If you are in to that sort of thing, this is a great game for you. It is exceedingly 
 cheap (free if you really do not want anything decent) , and tends to play a good deal like Guild 
 Wars or almost any other of NCSoft's games. If you do not tend to find those games interesting 
 (like myself) you will find this game just as dull.
  
  In reality it feels to me like NCSoft started a game and scrapped it (maybe an early build of Guild 
 Wars even) . However, since they put so much time in it, they decided hey lets see if we can get 
 a buck or two for it on these old servers we were about to throw away . So they release it for 
 free , and put little gimicks in to try to entice people to pay 5$ a month for it. Either that, 
 or it's just an attempt to feel out another marketing scheme that is the polar opposite of the 
 Guild Wars marketing scheme.
  
  All in all, if you really like farming and grinding, (or you are exceedingly bored) this is the 
 game for you. If you prefer a game with more depth and complexity, do not waste your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boxfire
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  The game is just starting, graphics are choppy, but feels like you are playing Diablo version of 
 Wow,. The muliplayer is fun and it has high potential. Feels like a beta version. Only three classes 
 to choose from right now. Ranger, mage, warrior. Each area you go to outside of town is instanced, 
 go with a group or by yourself. Fight epic mobs, I believe the epics will drop for you but IF you 
 want to use the epic gear, you will need to subscribe. If this game does release with better graphics, 
 you can believe it will be on my shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Space
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Runners is a fairly unique game in the world of potential Diablo wannabes. The game does 
 possess similarities with Diablo in the fact that it's a straightforward hack 'n slash, but that 
 is about where the similarities end.
  
  Dungeon Runners has a fairly unique business model. The game itself is FREE to download and play. 
 If you choose, you can opt in to pay $4.99 a month and get access to exclusive content. Imagine 
 if you could extend Diablo with new dungeons, special sets of items, etc. with a monthly fee for 
 new updates and content. It is a business model that works, and anyone who is a serious player 
 of Dungeon Runners will most likely want in on the pay to play content.
  
  In Dungeon Runners, you pick from one of three classes; Fighter, Ranger, and Mage. While that isn't 
 a very big list, it doesn't detract from the fun that Dungeon Runners offers. The graphics offer 
 a cartoony style that gives it an appearance that resembles World of Warcraft very closely. It's 
 a style that works and offers impressive visuals. The sounds are also very well done, with great 
 voice acting.
  
  One of the more refreshing features of the game is that it does not take itself seriously at all. 
 The game boasts a great sense of humor. The NPC dialogue can be hilarious at times, and just about 
 every special item in the game has some really off the wall names. This light-hearted approach 
 makes the game very endearing.
  
  NCSoft has been known to take some bold approaches to the MMO / Online RPG game market. Dungeon 
 Runners is no exception. On the heels of successes like Guild Wars which offer a free gaming experience 
 in a world of monthly fees, it is a welcome change of pace that Dungeon Runners entry level is 
 free. It is also especially nice that those who wish to extend the core game with special content 
 have the option to do so, and to do so for very cheap. $4.99 is a small price to pay for content 
 updates to an online RPG.
  
  I really can't recommend this game enough. It's fun and whimsical, and it's just satisfying to 
 bash monsters to bits. The presentation is outstanding, especially for a free game, and shows the 
 gaming world that some of the best things in life are free :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
